the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


AllianceND sparks dialogue around campus 

Unofficial gay-straight group continues to push for club status 

By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Associate News Editor 
When an offensive “Mobile Party” comic strip was pub­lished in the Observer on Jan. 13, the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning community at Notre Dame and the University’s unrecog­nized gay-straight alliance, AllianceND, was thrust to the forefront of a national issue. 
“It gave us the opportunity to start the discussions,” AllianceND officer Jessica Mahon, a senior, said. 
Later that month, the group helped organize a massive protest on campus to urge the University administration to both grant AllianceND offi-


SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

A student in LaFortune wears a ‘Gay? Fine by me’ T-shirt, which are see ALLIANCE/page 4 distributed and organized by AllianceND. 


Rhoades responds to life statement 
Observer Staff Report 
Bishop Kevin Rhoades praised Notre Dame for tak­ing steps toward the “renew­al of a culture of life,” in response to the University’s recent institution­al state ­



Students to go bald for cancer research 
By LILY HOUGH 
News Writer 
Elise Jordan has placed a $20,000 price over her head and is preparing to go bald to benefit cancer research. 
Jordan will join more than 100 other Notre Dame stu­dents who have volunteered to have their heads shaved this week as a part of The Bald and the Beautiful fundraiser sponsored by the Sophomore Class Council. 
Proceeds from the event, which raised over $26,500 last year which the Council hopes to double this year, will benefit the St. Baldrick ’s Foundation, a national non-profit that sup­ports pediatric cancer research, Service Commission member Erin Pankiw, a sophomore, said. 

“I’m so nervous. There have been times this week when I look in the mirror and realize I’m not going to have my hair,” Jordan said. “But I know that it’s going to be going to a better cause.” 
Jordan made the decision to go bald after her friends in the Class Council who 
organized the event last year asked her to, she said. 
“A majority of last year’s event was males, so this year we wanted to give more opportunities for girls to participate, but just because females are more attached to their hair, it’s a harder thing to ask them to do, ” Pankiw said. “For someone to do what Elise is doing takes a tremendous amount of bravery and com­passion and confidence. I couldn ’t think of a more confident person than Elise.” 
The daughter of a family physician in South Bend, Jordan said she has been “touched by cancer in a variety of ways ever since [she] was a little kid.” 
When her mother shares her daughter’s story with her own chemotherapy patients, they are moved and find strength in it, Jordan said. Some are even planning to have their own head shaved with Jordan, whose audience, among 
see BALD/page 6 


Habitat for Humanity celebrates 16th house 
turnout for the event was indicative of how important the project was for the local community. 
“Melissa and here family, along with members of her church, and Notre Dame alumni and students were all there today,” he said. 
Marsh said the Notre Dame chapter is unique in that it is one of the few college cam­pus chapters that builds and completes a house every year. 
“We do all the fundraising and getting materials on site,” he said. “We also see to 
see HABITAT/page 6 
m e n t  th a t  
affirms its  
defense of  
human life.  
“ I  a m  
grateful to  
[University  
P r e s i d e n t  Rhoades  
F r.  J o h n  
Jenkins] and  to  the Notre  

Dame Task Force on Life for the efforts they are making to serve the Gospel of Life,” Rhoades said in an Apr. 18 issue of Today’s Catholic, the weekly newspaper serving the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend. 
“I pray that their work will bear much good fruit,” he said. 
The University’s statement 
see RHOADES/page 4 

By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s chapter of Habitat for Humanity cele­brated almost a year’s worth of effort in the community at the dedication of the organi­zations 16th home in the South Bend area Sunday. 
South Bend resident Melissa Jones and her two sons are the new occupants of the Campeau Street resi­dence. 
Nathan Marsh, volunteer coordinator of Notre Dame’s Habitat for Humanity, said 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER World soccer tournament raises relief funds page 6  Review of ‘Kick Ass’ page 12  Inside football practice 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, April 19, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Molly Madden 
I’d like to start this inside column with a disclaimer. I am about to express why if I were a boy I would date fellow Observer staffer Molly Madden. First of all, this is hypotheti­cal as she is not interested in me Carly Landon nor I in her. Second of all, 
News Wire 
although you may 
Editor 
truly desire to date Molly, after reading this article, it might not be possible for you — sorry to get your hopes up! 
Avid fans of The Observer’s inside column may have noticed Molly Madden’s increasing self-deprecation over the past few months within her columns. Because I haven’t been able to respond within the viewpoint, I thought I’d take a chance in my inside column to point out the top 10 reasons why, if I was Notre Dame male, I would date Molly Madden. 
First, Molly has very few inhibitions and is very outgoing. When I first met Molly, she was training me for The Observer, and she instantly told me all about herself. And even offered to lend me a book on the Beatles — she loves them. 
Second, Molly is hilarious. Because there is so little she doesn’t want to share, she is funny even when she doesn’t want to be.  
Third, it is very rare not to find Molly without a smile on her face. 
Fourth, Molly is extremely witty and will challenge anybody. Although this may scare some boys off, men would not fear. Most men can handle a little heat. 
Fifth, Molly is a true Domer. Though I will miss her dearly when I go away in the Fall to study abroad, she is stay­ing on campus because she couldn’t bear to miss football season. She did-n’t miss a game this season, and when the weather got nasty, although many girls may have opted to leave the game earlier, Molly was there for the Irish through rain and shine. 
Six, Molly (excuse me for this) would be a cheap date. Unlike many girls, Molly enjoys the simple things. She’s bite-sized so it doesn’t take much to get her drunk, and she doesn’t eat too much. She also prefers to buy her clothes at Thrift Stores, which not only makes her appear cute and unique but also most likely saves the hundreds of dollars the rest of us are spending on clothes each year. 
Seven, she works at Reckers so when you’re out of flex points, she could hook you up. I’m just saying. 
Eight, Molly is one of the most loyal girls I know. I’ve only got to know Molly this past year, and though she has wide pool of friends, she is a really good friend to each of them. She lis­tens and she doesn’t gossip or take a sick interest in the problems of others. I know a lot of guys are turned off by gossiping girls so this may be one of the most important qualities in making Molly a keeper. 
Nine, she’s pretty busy so she’d be pretty low maintenance and as a guy, you’d get to maintain a lot of your independence. 
Ten, good news: she isn’t looking for a ring by spring! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Carly Landon at clandon1@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT IS T E MOST EMBARRASSING T ING YOU  AVE EVER GOOGLED? 









Adam Prister  Joe Nye  Katrina Epperson  Matt Cossack  Ryan Schwab  Teresa Keeney  
senior Fisher  freshman O’Neill  senior Welsh Family  senior O’Neill  junior Alumni  freshman Welsh Family  
“Marathon fatalities.”  “That one girl... Justin Bieber.”  “How to play BP.”  “I Googled prom. I was nervous before I went.”  “How to break parietals at Saint Mary’s.”  “Myself.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

EILEEN VEIHMEYER/The Observer O’Neill Hall and Lyons Hall host a free cookout complete with playground games and an inflatable obstacle course on South Quad for their “Recess” event Friday afternoon. 
OFFBEAT 
George Washington racks up late fees at N.Y. library 
NEW YORK — If George Washington were alive today, he might face a hefty overdue library fine. 
New York City’s oldest library says one of its ledgers shows that the pres­ident has racked up 220 years’ worth of late fees on two books he borrowed, but never returned. 
One of the books was the “Law of Nations,” which deals with international relations. The other was a volume of debates from Britain’s House of Commons. 
Both books were due on Nov. 2, 1789. 

New York Society Library head librarian Mark Bartlett says the institution isn’t seeking payment of the fines, but would love to get the books back. 
The ledger also lists books being taken out by other founding fathers, including Alexander Hamilton, Aaron Burr and John Jay. 
The entry on Washington simply lists the borrower as “president.” 
N.J. cafeteria workers punish food-fighting students 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. — Students at New Jersey’s Atlantic City High School have learned not to mess with the lunch ladies. 
Cafeteria workers served only cheese sandwiches Wednesday and Thursday as punishment for a food fight. 
School Superintendent Fredrick Nickles says the school supplies only the basic food requirement when there’s been a food-throwing incident. Nickles says the policy has been effective over the years. 
Only the group that engaged in the fight out of the school’s three lunch peri­ods was punished. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Tuesday Wednesday 

IN BRIEF 
A session of “Peace of Mind: The Art of Mindful Relaxation” will take place today at 12 p.m. in the third-floor conference room of St. Liam Hall. 
Visiting professor Robert Warrior will give a lecture titled “Curating ‘Beyond the Chief’: Hating Art and Words on Campus” today at 5 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The lecture will be followed by a discussion. 
Colombian-born poet Maurice Kilwein Guevara will read from his body of work tonight at 7:30 
p.m. in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
The 2010 BFA/MFA Candidates’ Theses Exhibition begins Tuesday at 10 a.m. in the O’Shaughnessy Galleries of the Snite Museum of Art. 
The Food for Thought Film Series and Lectures will continue with a lecture titled “Sustainability: The Key to Today’s Food Revolution,” which will take place Tuesday at 7:30 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
In celebration of National Poetry Month, students and facul­ty will read from their poetry in a “Poetry Reading Tag Team” Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
The Sophomore Class Council’s charity event “The Bald and the Beautiful: University of Notre Dame Fights Cancer” begins Wednesday at 4 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Thursday Friday 

Atlanta 72 / 50 Boston 58 / 40 Chicago 57 / 41 Denver 71 /48 Houston 73 / 57 Los Angeles 68 / 53 Minneapolis 70 / 46 New York 63 / 43 Philadelphia 65 / 41 Phoenix 81 / 62 Seattle 67 / 51 St. Louis 66 / 46 Tampa 77 / 61 Washington 63 / 46 
Monday, April 19, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC promotes entrepreneurship 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
In order to promote female entrepreneurship, Saint Mary’s College created the Women’s Entrepreneurial Initiative (WEI), a program designed to assist current female-owned and operated small businesses and create an interest in entrepreneurship among women, Susan Vance, senior proj­ect director for WEI and professor at the College said. 
In order to help execute the pro­gram, the College hired Martha Smith, a local business owner and program director for WEI. Smith has first-hand experience in entre­preneurship. 
Vance said she hopes the pro­gram will become a helpful resource for local businesses. 
Smith also wants to see the pro­gram reach out to female entre­preneurs. 
“[I hope the program will] pro­vide a forum or a home for busi­nesswomen to come and network and obtain resources and informa­tion to run a smoother operation if they already have a business,” Smith said. 
Smith said she also wanted to see WEI create an interest in own­ing a business within the College community. 
According to Vance, the College was awarded a $245,000 Small Business Administration two-year grant to support WEI in October 2009. Since that time the College has worked to aid local female business owners. 
Vance said the program has a two-part focus. 
“One part is externally, in the community, we want to be really viewed as the go-to place,” Vance said. “If you’re a woman and you want to start a small business or you want to launch a small busi­ness we want you to think about Saint Mary’s as the first place to go to.” 
Vance said the second part of the program was to focus on educat­ing students about entrepreneur­ship. 
“We also are very interested in our Saint Mary’s women as well,” she said. “So what we want to do is engage the Saint Mary’s women with those women within the com­munity, those women business owners. Also in addition to that we want to get students excited about starting their own businesses.” 
During the Spring 2010 semes­ter, WEI offered a Small Business Consulting course where teams of students were paired with local female-owned companies. During the partnerships, students worked to create plans for better efficiency for the companies. According to Smith, one team of students was able to help a company create bet­ter efficiency with a computer pro­gram. 
Smith said Saint Mary’s senior Kathleen Mills was able to simplify a major computer issue at Nicholas J Salon and Spa in South Bend. 
Smith said Mills and her team of three other students were able to transform a computer task that originally took five hours into a 30 second job. 
“There was a success story, one of the students solved a problem for a local business owner. [The company] had a situation with the computers and it was taking them five hours to do a job,” Smith said. 
Smith owns two businesses of her own — a mini storage unit company and a textile company. Both businesses are in the Michiana area. According to Vance, Smith is a valuable asset to the program because she has the capabilities to assist in reaching out to the Latina women interested in entrepreneurship. 
“I can relate to other women business owners,” Smith said. “I sort of feel their pain and there’s a kinship.” 
Vance said the College has creat­ed a new course that will be sup­ported by the grant. The New Ventures course will allow groups of students to create their own business. Vance will be teaching the course. Students will be responsible for creating their prod­uct or service, marketing it to the local community and running the company. Students will be required to take the course for two semesters, and at the end of the second semester they will create an exit strategy and close their company. 
The money that students have earned from their business will go towards paying of the start-up loan they received at the beginning of the course. After they have paid off their loan, students will donate the money to local charities. 
Vance said New Ventures will be offered for the first time during the Fall 2010 and Spring 2011 semes­ters. 
Contact Alicia Smith asmith01@nd.edu 

SMEAC to host Earth Week events 
By KRYSTINA HARCOURT 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s Environmental Action Coalition (SMEAC) will be hosting a series of events and proj­ects celebrating Earth Week, beginning today, in honor of envi­ronmental activism. 
“We have been planning Earth Week for quite a few months now and have worked really hard to put together some great events and activities,” SMEAC board member Ellen Huelsmann said. “Our goal is to make the environ­ment fun and I’m really looking forward to all the great stuff we have planned.” 
The week’s events begin tonight at 5 p.m. with kickball and tie-dying on Library Green. 
“It’s a way for us to get people outside and enjoying the warm weather,” SMEAC head of public relations Jamie Thordsen said. 
Participants are allowed to bring their own items to tie-dye. 
“People have brought socks, jackets and even sports bras,” she said. 
On Tuesday, students can sign a pledge to care for a plant from 11 
a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Student Center, and on Wednesday, SMEAC will organize the annual “Weight your Waste” event, which meas­ures how much food students waste in the dining hall. 
“We simply take all the food and liquids left on the trays when stu­dents go to place them on the tray belt and put them in big contain­ers,” Thordsen said. 
The highlight for SMEAC during the week will be Thursday’s Earth Day Student Panel. They have planned for each member to speak on a topic related to raise aware­ness about the environment. 
Huelsmann, who will be talking about “The Importance of Biodiversity,” will be one of nine speakers on the panel. Topics that will be discussed include “Business Going Green,” “Your Carbon Footprint” and “Go Green by Eating Green.” 
“This panel is simply [about] the importance of environment and how we all have a responsibility as members of this planet to protect and preserve it in any way we can,” Huelsmann said. 
On Friday, SMEAC is organizing an invasive species clean up in the Saint Mary’s Nature Area to help eradicate garlic mustard plants. 
SMEAC will also be teaming up with the dining hall staff to help limit environmental impact. Trays and straws will be unavailable all week in order to limit waste, and students can bring water bottles with them into the dining hall. 
“We really want the students to be able to participate in our cele­bration of the Earth and we are hoping that they get a lot out of everything we have planned,” Huelsmann said. 
Contact Krystina Harcourt kharcou01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 19, 2010 
said. friends who meet and discuss LeMay noted Saint Mary’s issues. It would be really ben-
Alliance 
College across the street from eficial to have a set club, have Notre Dame already has both a set time when we could 
continued from page 1 
a gay-straight alliance (SAGA) meet, have a room where we 
and has added sexual orienta-can meet and to be able to cial club status and add sexu-tion to their nondiscrimina-advertise to students that al orientation to the nondis-tion clause. these resources are out crimination clause. “The administration has there,” she said. 
“The demonstration that definitely been made aware Mahon said the club’s unof­happened in January was that Saint Mary’s, which is ficial status had kept it under-maybe the marker of my also a Holy Cross college, has ground for years, and many Notre Dame experience,” both sexual orientation in the students who could benefit Mahon said. “It really kept up clause and a gay -straight from the group’s resources my faith in the Notre Dame alliance,” she said. might not know it exists. student body that the LeMay said the administra-“Right now, students that response was really positive tion has cited concern about could really need the help or on campus.” the legal ramifications of the resources sometimes don’t 
AllianceND officer junior adding sexual orientation to know what goes on,” she said. Chris Collins said the panel the nondiscrimination clause, “It’s all word of mouth, so discussions that followed the noting partner benefits as one there’s a really possible comic’s publication and sever-legal implication. chance that we’re missing al individual meetings with AllianceND officer senior people who could benefit from top administration officials, Patrick Bears said the panel the club.” including University President discussions and meetings with In the past, the administra-Fr. John Jenkins, have been administration officials were tion has pointed to Core mostly productive. a step in the right direction, Council as a resource for 

“There have been a lot of but the actions were ultimate-LGBTQ students. But Collins discussions since the Mobile ly inconsequential. said Core Council, of which Party Comic Strip, and I’ve “I’m not going be critical for both LeMay and Bears are been to a few of them and the University for actually try-also members, does not give from what I’ve heard they’ve ing to do something, it’s just students enough control. Bears also said it was not events in conjunction with all been very successful,” he they’re doing as little as they “I think one of the key just students who felt that Core Council. said. potentially can,” he said. things is [AllianceND] gives they needed to stay closeted. Despite some setbacks, the 
Senior and AllianceND offi-“They’re trying to do every-students the ability to take “There’s definitely fear AllianceND officers said the cer Melanie LeMay said the thing they can without actual-part in the decision making among teachers regarding the response on campus has been Student Activities Office (SAO) ly doing anything about the process,” Collins said. “We’d subject material that they can very positive since the publi­has made a decision and is club itself.” have our own funds and be teach and their personal lives cation of the offensive comic. waiting until all club applica-Mahon said she wanted to able to set our own events, and whether they have to Mahon said the work of many tions are reviewed to give its be optimistic about the club’s whereas with Core Council remain closeted in order to tenured faculty members who decision. application, but also noted it they’re all kind of set by [the keep their jobs,” he said. know their jobs are safe has 
In an e-mail, student pro-was the eleventh time the club Office of Student Affairs].” Collins, who is the only offi-been “phenomenal” in sup-grams coordinator Mary Kate had applied for official status LeMay said Core Council’s cer in the group that will still porting the group. Havlik said she helps “to facil-in the past 13 years. structure does not allow many be enrolled at Notre Dame Nevertheless, the group itate the prospective club “We want to be really opti-students to join who would next year, said the group will members did say they were application process for all mistic, but we also recognize want to. continue to apply for club sta-concerned about some of the clubs,” but did not comment that it may not happen,” she “I think AllianceND would tus if they are denied later more hateful reactions they directly on AllianceND’s pend-said. “I think the biggest indi-be a important supplement to this month. have received around campus. ing application. cator that [we might not get Core Council because Core “If we don’t get status we “There have been a reemer­
“Our primary concerns it] is the administration has Council is a closed group and will be applying again next gence of the ‘Gay? Go to Hell’ [when we met with Fr. being making really conscious only has eight student mem-year, I can pretty much guar-T-shirts from two years ago, Jenkins] were the non-dis-efforts to meet with us to see bers,” she said. antee that. If we do get club and from what I’m aware crimination clause and the how they can improve the Bears said graduate stu-status that would kind of be a there have actually been more approval of AllianceND as a framework that they use.” dents are shut out of Core whole different ball game,” he of them than there were just club, both of which are ways Mahon said gaining official Council, and that they do not said. my sophomore year,” Bears we feel the University can club status would be incredi-have a gay-straight alliance Collins said AllianceND’s said. show its acceptance of bly helpful to the group and for themselves. probationary first year would [LGBTQ] students and their boost its profile on campus. “There’s no kind of outreach include hosting regular meet-Contact Joseph McMahon allies on campus,” LeMay “Right now it’s just some for them,” he said. ings and sponsoring a few jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
research, pastoral ministry and service, Catholic univer-
Rhoades 
sities indeed contribute to the continued from page 1 renewal of our society and to 
the promotion of the common stemmed from a recommen-good.” dation by the University’s Rhoades also said Notre pro-life task force, which was Dame’s statement falls in line created by Jenkins in with Pope John Paul II ’s September. encyclical, “The Gospel of 
The statement said the Life.” University upholds the sanc-“[Pope John Paul II] called tity of human life from con-for ‘the renewal of a culture ception to natural death, of life within Christian com-and also clarified its posi-munities themselves’ and tion on charitable gifts in wrote of the specific contri­the principles on charitable bution that Catholic universi­activity. ties should make in building a 
“Our Catholic universities new ‘culture of life,’ Rhoades are in a unique position to said. “I believe that the promote the renewal of a cul-efforts that the University of ture of life in our society,” Notre Dame is making in this Rhoades said. “Being actively regard are important for the pro -life in teaching and Church and for society.” 




World & Nation 
Monday, April 19, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Agents block opposition march 
HAVANA — Cuban security agents denied the wives and mothers of jailed dissidents permis­sion to hold their weekly march Sunday, setting off a long, strange standoff under the hot Caribbean sun that ended with the women being led away by officials. 
After seven years of peaceful — mostly uneventful — Sunday protests, officials first stopped the women, known as the “Ladies in White,” on April 11, and informed them they would need permission to hold future demon­strations. 
The group, comprised mostly of the wives and mothers of some 75 dissidents arrested in a 2003 crackdown, had been the only one whose protests were tolerated by Cuba, and they had never requested or received permission before. 
Militants killed in fighting 
KABUL — At least 29 militants, including two commanders, have been killed over four days of intense fighting aimed at pro­tecting supply routes through northern Afghanistan, the Interior Ministry said Sunday. 
Elsewhere, a foreign soldier was killed by a roadside bomb in southern Afghanistan on Saturday, NATO said, the third foreign death that day following an earlier announcement of the loss of two Dutch marines in the southern province of Uruzgan. The third soldier’s nationality and other details of the incident were being withheld pending family notification, it said. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Gates clarifies memo on Iran 
WASHINGTON — Defense Secretary Robert Gates is disputing the characterization of a memo he wrote in January suggesting the U.S. needed to advance a long-term plan for dealing with Iran’s nuclear program. 
Gates said Sunday allies and foes should have no doubt the U.S. is prepared to act “across a broad range of contingencies” in support of its interests with Iran. He said the memo identified steps to be taken in defense planning after Washington decided to increase pressure against Iran’s nuclear ambitions. 
Government sources told The New York Times the memo prompted a scramble to come up with new options, including military ones. But Gates says he was merely laying out an orderly and timely decision-making process. 
Demonstrators square off in L.A. 
LOS ANGELES — A white supremacist group rallied against illegal immigration in downtown Los Angeles Saturday as hundreds of counter-protesters gathered to shout them down in a tense standoff that included several arrests, thrown rocks and police in riot gear. 
Police officers stood between the white supremacists and counter-demonstrators on the south lawn of Los Angeles’ City Hall, where about 50 members of the National Socialist Movement waved American flags and swastika banners for about an hour. 
Five people, all of them counter-protesters, were arrested on suspicion of throwing items, police said. 
The white supremacists shouted “Sieg Heil” before each of their speakers took the podium to taunt counter-protesters with racial, anti-Semitic and misogynistic epithets. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Woman sued for not moving 
BEVERLY SHORES, Ind. — The federal government says it’s time for a woman who moved into a house in the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore to move out. 
When the park was created in the 1960s, Congress gave people who lived in houses already built there the right to stay for 20 years. That later was extended. 
A lawsuit filed Friday in U.S. District Court in Hammond says Deborah Pavel took over the right to live in one of those homes in 2002. The lawsuit says she was supposed to move out in August, but didn’t do so. 
MALTA 

Pope meets with abuse victims 
Benedict XVI makes visit to Malta, says Church will better protect children 
Associated Press 
VALLETTA — With tears in his eyes, Pope Benedict XVI made his most person­al gesture yet to respond to the clerical sex abuse scandal Sunday, telling vic­tims the church will do everything possible to pro­tect children and bring abusive priests to justice, the Vatican said. 
The emotional moment carried no new admissions from the Vatican, which has strongly rejected accu­sations that efforts to cover up for abusive priests were directed by the church hierarchy for decades. But the pontiff told the men that the church would “implement effective meas­ures” to protect children, the Vatican said, without offering details. 
Benedict met for more than a half-hour with eight Maltese men who say they were abused by four priests when they were boys living at a Catholic orphanage. During the meeting in the chapel at the Vatican’s embassy here, Benedict expressed his “shame and sorrow” at the pain the men and their families suffered, the Vatican said. 

“Everybody was crying,” one of the men, Joseph and to implement effective should feel relieved until Grech said he told the Magro, 38, told Associated measures designed to safe-strong steps are actually pontiff: “This a one-time Press Television News after guard young people in the taken, not promised, that opportunity in life ... you the meeting. “I told him my future,” the Vatican state-will prevent future child have the power to fill the name was Joseph, and he ment said. sex crimes and cover-ups,” emptiness that I had, had tears in his eyes.” Victims’ advocacy groups said Peter Isely, the someone else took my 
The visit — which came have demanded that the group’s Midwest director. innocence and my faith.” on the second day of Vatican take concrete steps Magro said the men, in At the end, they prayed Benedict’s two-day trip to to protect children and their 30s and 40s, received together and the pope gave this largely Roman remove abusive priests and a call Sunday morning to his blessing, the Vatican Catholic island — marked the bishops who protected come to the embassy and said. the first time Benedict had them, saying the pope’s that the pope spent a few “The climate was intense met with abuse victims expressions to date of soli-minutes with each of them. but very serene,” said since the worldwide cleri-darity and shame were He said the overall Vatican spokesman the cal abuse scandal engulfed meaningless unless actual encounter, which lasted Rev. Federico Lombardi. the Vatican earlier this action is taken. about 35 minutes, was The private meeting was year. The main U.S. victims “fantastic.” confirmed only after it had 
“He prayed with them group, Survivors Network Lawrence Grech, who led occurred — as was the and assured them that the of Those Abused by efforts to arrange the case when Benedict met Church is doing, and will Priests, said it was easy for encounter, said the pope with abuse victims in the continue to do, all in its Benedict to make promises told each of the men: “I am United States and power to investigate alle-about taking action to pro-very proud of you for hav-Australia in 2008. He gations, to bring to justice tect children. ing come forward to tell returned to Rome late those responsible for abuse “Not a single adult your story.” Sunday. 

ISRAEL 

Peres: Iran poses a threat to entire world 
nuclear program, but Israel has not Ahmadinejad, to Israel’s destruction. 
Associated Press 

taken the option of a military strike Just hours earlier in Tehran, 
JERUSALEM — Iran is a danger to against Iran off the table. Ahmadinejad addressed a military the whole civilized world, not just Israel, the U.S. and others believe parade and warned, “Today, our Israel, President Shimon Peres Iran is trying to build nuclear armed forces have so much power warned Sunday, setting an especially weapons. Iran insists its nuclear pro-that no enemy will harbor evil somber tone for his nation’s annual gram is peaceful. thoughts about laying its hands on memorial day for soldiers and civil-Speaking at the Western Wall in the Iranian territory.” He called on the ians killed in wars and terror attacks. Old City of Jerusalem before relatives U.S. and its allies to pull out of the 
Alluding to Iran’s nuclear program, of fallen soldiers, Peres added, “A region “and stop supporting Israel.” Peres said the country threatens to threat to the peace of the Jewish peo-Air raid sirens sounded across Israel annihilate Israel. “On no account must ple always carries the danger of turn-after nightfall to mark the beginning we underestimate these threats,” he ing into a threat to the civilized world of the solemn day, when relatives visit said. “Nor should our enemies under-as a whole.” graves at military cemeteries around estimate our capabilities.” Israel considers Iran a strategic the country. Another siren at mid-
Israel has been urging the world threat because of its nuclear program, morning Monday signals the begin-community to impose stiff sanctions long-range missiles and frequent ref-ning of state ceremonies at the ceme­on Iran to force it to abandon its erences by its president, Mahmoud teries. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 19, 2010 
ASAhosts world soccer tournament 
Event brings cultural clubs together to raise disaster relief funds 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Teams representing Notre Dame’s cultural clubs shot to score on Stepan Fields in a soccer tournament Saturday to raise funds for relief through the Haiti Fund and the Chilean Red Cross, African Students Association (ASA) president Brigitte Githinji said. 
“A soccer tournament was just a great way to fundraise without necessarily placing a cloud of sadness over every­one,” Githinji said. “At the end of the day, the purpose of the tournament was to bring people together in celebration of the World Cup.” 
The tournament was the kickoff event for Africa Week 2010, and the tournament entry fees as well as T-shirt sales throughout the week will form the basis of fundraising efforts for victims of natural disasters. 
The theme of world unity promoted both by Africa Week and the World Cup inspired the ASA and other multicultural clubs to serve others in the global communi­ty, African Students Association vice president Odara Omusi said. 
“With unity comes solidari­ty,” Omusi said. “I think that is something that is important for countries like Haiti and Chile that have been affected by earthquakes in recent times.” 
The organizers also hoped to spread awareness of the options that students have to join cultural clubs on campus. By promoting these organiza­tions through the tournament, they believed they could expand membership and interest. 
“The event was inspired by a vested interest in soccer as well as a desire to see more collaboration among clubs and organizations that other­wise don’t interact,” Githinji said. 
As South Africa prepares to make history as the first African nation to host the FIFA World Cup this summer, Githinji that a miniature World Cup was a natural project for the ASA. 
The African Students Association, German Club and the Italian Club collaborated to plan a world soccer tour­nament in order “to raise awareness and participation in each of the cultural clubs,” Italian Club president Kathleen O’Connor said. 
Githinji and O’Connor worked with German Club president Aaron Steiner to bring teams representing Germany, South Africa, the 
“I want people to know that you don’t need to shave your head to become continued from page 1 involved with this cause. You can help in so many supportive classmates, fami-other ways. Make a little ly, and friends, will include donation or just be there to children from Memorial show your support, ” she Hospital’s pediatric oncology said. “The sum of little ward. things isn’t little. Everything 
Jordan said the faces of makes a difference.” those children in the crowd And while she admits that that will get her through the her confidence will come in emotional event. handy as she braves her 
“I’m hoping I can stay new bald lifestyle, Jordan is s t r o n g adamant that enough not to it doesn ’t cry, ” Jordan require any 
Bald 
“If I do get 
said. “If I do super powers. get emotion -emotional, it’s “I think any­al, it’s proba-probably going one can do it,” 
bly going to Jordan said. 
to be more looking at 
be more look-“Honestly, any-
the faces of 
ing at the one has what it faces of can-cancer patients being takes.” cer patients The event, 
there and knowing 
being there which kicks off 
that I’m doing this 
and knowing Wednesday that I’m doing for them.” night and will this for wind down them.” Saturday after-
Elise Jordan
Jordan, noon, will 
sophomore
whose hair include meals 
r u n s  a b o u t  
m  i d  -w  a  y  
d o w n  h e r  b a c k ,  s a i d  s h e  
c a n ’ t  r e m e m b e r  h e r  l a s t  

dramatic haircut. While raising pledges from individ­uals, churches and small businesses in her hometown South Bend has been her main priority, Jordan said going bald will also be, for her and her peers, a lesson in vanity. 
“For me, it’s just hair, but for a lot of people it’s not just hair. For a lot of people, it defines the way they view themselves,” Jordan said. “What I’m realizing is that at the end of the day, it is just hair, and you can live and do without it.” 
As for her self-proclaimed lofty fundraising goal, Jordan said she thinks it’s “attainable.” 
sponsored by 
F i d d l e r’s Hearth, as well as hair ­dressers from Salon Rouge offering hair extensions and opportunities for students to donate hair to Pantene Great Lengths, an organiza­tion similar to Locks for Love that uses donated hair to make wigs for cancer patients, Pankiw said. 
Thirty players from Notre Dame’s football team have also signed up to have their heads shaved Wednesday night, followed by 25 Welsh Family residents who have signed up for hair exten ­sions in support of Kelsey Thrasher, a Notre Dame stu­dent and cancer survivor. 
“This is an event for everyone, ” Pankiw said. “Everyone is going to be affected by cancer at some Philippines, Italy, Spain and India together on Stepan Fields. The Spanish team emerged as the gold medalist after the final match with Italy, O’Connor said. 
“There were also several students not involved in cul­tural clubs who played,” O’Connor said. “Hopefully the tournament will inspire these students to join a cultural club in the future.” 
After Saturday’s success, the organizers would wel ­come plans for another tour­nament in the future. 
“Italian club would definite­ly be interested in continuing the tournament in the future,” O’Connor said. “Given the success we had this year, I think we will have even more participants next year and in years to come.” 
Githinji encouraged stu ­dents to participate in other Africa Week events, including the World Unity Banquet on Thursday with international food, multicultural perform­ances, and an address from Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves. 
“Hopefully, we can keep that enthusiasm and collabo­rative spirit going as we con­tinue with the rest of Africa Week 2010,” Githinji said. 
Contact Megan Doyle mdoyle11@nd.edu 
point in their lives, if they haven’t already experienced it. This is a tremendous issue that our generation needs to take responsibility to find a cure.” 
For Jordan, whose date with the clippers is sched­uled for Thursday night, the hair lost will be insignificant to the support gained. 
“I think if it were easier it wouldn ’t be worth it, because the sacrifice is what makes it special, ” Jordan said. 
And with a bald head, she plans to make her message loud and clear. 
“This is what I want peo­ple to know, especially kids battling cancer, ” Jordan said. “There’s so much more to what makes you a beauti­ful person than what is on top of your head.” 
Contact Lily Hough lhough1@nd.edu 
Bend’s chapter of Habitat 
for Humanity helped in the 
Habitat 

process, from construction continued from page 1 to selecting the Joneses for 
the program. it that contractors work on Marsh said the process of time. We walk through the constructing the house took whole thing as students.” nearly the entire academic 
Volunteer efforts were year. particularly important to “We started planning for it the success of the project, at the end of the summer. Marsh said. Most of our construction 
“We had a fantastic occurs during fall break. turnout of Over 100 stu­kids every dents show up Saturday with Notre 
“This will be great for 
and Sunday, Dame alum ­
neighborhood
even football ni, ” he said. weekends relationships. Part of “Once the and when it weather
what we work on is 
is 10 warms up in 
building community
degrees out-the spring, we side,” he roots.” do landscap ­said. ing.” 
Marsh also One of the 
Nathan Marsh 
said Melissa special
volunteer coordinator
Jones was aspects of this active in the Habitat for Humanity parti cular 
construction of the house, as per Habitat for Humanity policy. 
“In addition to having two sons and a full time job, she came to work at the house every weekend,” he said. 
The Jones family also had to meet other Habitat requirements in order to participate in the project. 
“They actually have to go to a class about mainte ­nance and finance for a first time homeowner,” Marsh said. 
Marsh said Melissa Jones’s spiritual life was an integral aspect of the effort she put into the program. 
“The faith she had throughout this project was amazing. There was a lot of work she had to put into it,” he said. 
In addition to student vol­unteer work and the Jones’s efforts, Marsh said South Habitat for 
Humanity project is the site that the house was chosen for. 
“Both of [the Jones ’s] neighbors will live in Habitat houses, ” Marsh said. “This will be great for neighborhood relation­ships. Part of what we work on is building com­munity roots.” 
After months of effort, Marsh said everyone involved felt a strong sense 
of achievement with how the project turned out and what it means for the Jones family. 
“Working on it all year with Melissa, starting from a dirt lot, and celebrating the accomplishment of fin­ishing this house which she will move in with her family is really amazing,” he said. 
Contact Sam Stryker sstryke1@nd.edu 



The Observer 

Business
Monday, April 19, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
Talks on Greek bailout postponed 
ATHENS — International talks on a bailout package for heavily indebted Greece have been postponed because of the global travel chaos caused by Iceland’s volcano, the Finance Ministry said Sunday. 
The talks were to start in Athens on Monday and involve the government, the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund. The parties are to discuss a “three-year economic policies package” and the fact that euro zone countries and the IMF will provide financial aid only if Greece requests it, the ministry said. 
But the talks have been delayed until Wednesday, “if conditions permit,” it said. 
Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou said Saturday that market worries over Greek bonds could calm down when the nations agrees on more details regarding standby loans. 
He told reporters in Madrid that Greece has passed its “most difficult” month for refinanc­ing its swelling debt by successfully selling some 12 billion of debt in April. It needs to sell more than 10 billion in May, he said. 
Insurers to recoup Toyota recalls 
MIAMI — Insurance companies are gear­ing up to recoup from Toyota money they paid for claims in crashes involving sudden acceleration, the subject of major safety recalls by the Japanese automaker. It could also mean money back for some drivers who paid deductibles. 
At least six major insurers, including State Farm Insurance Cos., Allstate Corp. and Geico, have begun examining past claims involving the recalled vehicles, which num­ber about 6 million in the U.S. and 8 million around the world. Insurers can request that Toyota pay them for the claim if a vehicle defect is proven to be a key factor in a crash, a long-standing industry practice known as subrogation. 
Many insurers have begun notifying Toyota Motor Corp. that they will do just that. 
“We’re seeking to have them share in some of the financial liability, because part 
of it is their fault,” said State Farm spokesman Phil Supple. 

GoldmanSachsfacesdamagedimage 
Fraud charge deals big blow to reputation, could require millions in fines 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — While Goldman Sachs contends with the government’s civil fraud charges, an equally serious problem looms: a damaged reputa­tion that may cost it clients. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission’s bombshell civil fraud charge against Goldman has tarnished the Wall Street bank’s already bruised image, analysts say. It could also hurt its ability to do business in an industry based largely on trust. 
Damage from the case could hit other big banks as well. The SEC charges are expected to help the Obama administration as it seeks to more tightly police lucrative invest­ment banking activities. 
Goldman has denied the SEC’s allegation that it sold risky mortgage investments without telling buyers that the securities were crafted in part by a billionaire hedge fund manager who was betting on them to fail. A 31-year-old Goldman employee is also accused in the civil suit that was announced Friday. 

The charges could result It has long attracted questioned by the govern-“Goldman can really in fines and restitution of some of the world’s best ment. only truly be effective in more than $700 million, and brightest. Some have So far, no Goldman the marketplace if it predicted Brad Hintz, an gone on to lofty careers in clients have publicly con-maintains a strong repu­analyst at Sanford public life, enhancing the demned the bank’s tation,” Williams said. Bernstein. Yet, even if firm’s aura of mystique alleged actions. But the Morgan Stanley, the No. Goldman beats the and influence. Goldman negative publicity and 2 U.S. investment bank charge, the hit to its repu-alumni include former regulatory scrutiny could after Goldman, could be tation could carry a Treasury Secretaries cause some to distance in a position to poach greater cost. Henry Paulson and Robert themselves, said Mark T. some Goldman clients, 
The company, founded Rubin and former New Williams, a professor of which include hedge in 1869, grew from a one-Jersey Gov. Jon Corzine. finance and economics at funds, pension funds and man outfit trading prom-In its corporate profile, Boston University. other big institutional issory notes in New York the company says its cul-Goldman earned a investors. Overseas, to the world’s most pow-ture distinguishes it from record $4.79 billion dur-European rivals such as erful, most profitable and other firms and “helps to ing the fourth quarter of Deutsche Bank AG and arguably most envied make us a magnet for tal-last year and is expected UBS could benefit. securities and investment ent.” That culture is to report blowout first-Investors are already firm. From its 43-story summed up in the firm’s quarter results on betting the legal troubles glass-and-steel headquar-“14 Business Principles,” Tuesday. A big chunk of will hurt Goldman’s ters in Lower Manhattan, which preach an almost its profits are from fee-finances. The company’s Goldman oversees a militant philosophy of put-based client businesses, shares plunged 13 percent financial empire that ting the client before the such as investment advis-after the charges were spans more than 30 coun-firm. ing, underwriting securi-announced Friday, erasing tries and includes more Now, it’s that very phi-ties and brokering billion-a staggering $12.5 billion than 30,000 employees. losophy that has been dollar mergers. in market value. 

Fee-weary air travelers get a short break 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — U.S. airlines never met a fee they didn’t like. Until now, it seems. 
Five major carriers on Sunday agreed not to follow the lead of a small Florida airline that plans to charge for carryon bags. Their com­mitment comes just in time to keep travelers from running for the exits during the peak summer flying sea­son, but it is doubtful that it marks a change in strategy. 
Airlines are going to tack on every fee they feel they can get away with because it bolsters their revenue stream while allowing them to keep base fares lower. They just don’t feel like passengers will tolerate losing their sacred free carryons — at least not right now. 

The promise to New York Sen. Charles Schumer from American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, United Airlines, US Airways and JetBlue Airways comes despite the fact that some of those same airlines are expected to report first-quarter loss­es next week. They were stung by higher fuel prices and the heavy February snowstorms. 
Ancillary fees for air travel — including baggage fees, reservation change fees and other miscellaneous operating revenue — have been pil­ing up. 
For U.S. carriers they totaled $1.95 billion in the third quarter of 2009, roughly 36 percent higher than for the same period a year ear­lier. For 26 large U.S. airlines, those fees made up 6.9 percent of their total operating revenue in the third quarter of last year, according to the most recent government data avail­able. 
But major carriers risk alienating customers if they follow Spirit Airlines’ lead and impose a fee on carryon bags. In August, Spirit will begin charging customers up to $45 to place a bag in an overhead bin. 
Other fees haven’t stopped people from flying, but many can be avoid­ed. Carryon bag fees would be hard to avoid. 
“We believe it is something that’s important to our customers and they value, and we will continue making that available to them at no charge,” American Airlines spokesman Roger Frizzell said. 
page 8 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, April 19, 2010 Monday, April 19, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Rain to delay shuttle landing 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. — NASA warned space shuttle Discovery’s astronauts Sunday to expect rain delays as they wrapped up their two-week mis­sion and got ready to come home. 
Discovery and its crew of seven were scheduled to land Monday morning at NASA’s Florida space­port. 
Shuttle commander Alan Poindexter said Sunday that he enjoys spending extra time in orbit and doesn’t mind if Discovery can’t make it back to Earth until Tuesday. 
Mission Control promised to keep monitoring the weather in case the forecast improved. In the worst case, Discovery could always aim for the backup landing site in Southern California on Tuesday. 
Poindexter and his crew are returning from the International Space Station after stockpiling it with supplies, science experi­ments and extra spare parts, 


including a tank full of ammonia 
coolant. It took three spacewalks 
to install the tank. Providing Florida’s weather 
cooperates, Discovery will criss­
cross much of the United States 
during re-entry, zooming in from 
the Pacific Northwest. For safety 
reasons, NASA typically prefers to 
bring a space shuttle home from 
the southwest, up over the South 
Pacific, Central America and the 
Gulf of Mexico. It’s a lesson NASA learned the 
hard way in 2003, when Columbia shattered over Texas during re­entry. All seven astronauts were killed, but remarkably, no one was hurt on the ground by the wreckage. Since then, only one other shuttle mission has ended with a continental flyover, back in 2007. Before Discovery’s April 5 liftoff, NASA altered the flight path to maximize the astro­nauts’ work time in orbit without wearing them down. The rare U.S. flyover — weather permitting — was going to provide a streaking light show for those beneath the flight path. For Monday’s first landing opportunity at 8:48 a.m., Discovery would zoom over British Columbia and Alberta, swing down over Montana and the Dakotas, and pass over Sioux City, Iowa, and the middle of Missouri. Then it would come down over the eastern border of Arkansas and Tennessee, then over northeastern Mississippi and Alabama, southwestern Georgia and almost directly over Jacksonville. The second opportunity, 1½ hours later, would have the shut­tle crossing over Washington state and passing over more of the heartland. 

S.F. crime lab at center of unraveling scandal 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — The tape recorder started rolling as two police investigators sat in their car in a hospital parking lot with Deborah Madden on Feb. 
26. “You’re causing a huge nightmare for the city,” said one officer. 
Now the 60-year-old techni­cian and the obscure police crime lab where she worked for 29 years stand at the center of a scandal that has led to the dismissal of hundreds of crimi­nal cases and jeopardized thou­sands more. Police have accused Madden of skimming cocaine evidence from the lab, but she hasn’t been criminally charged in the case. 
Forensics experts say Madden is not the first crime lab worker suspected of stealing drugs or other illegality, and San Francisco’s lab joins several other cities in suffering a loss of credibility. 
A Houston man was awarded $5 million last year after spend­ing 17 years in prison on rape charges overturned because of a discredited criminal lab. 
Detroit shut down its crime lab in 2008 after outside audi­tors uncovered serious errors in the way evidence was handled. 
“It’s real hard to build a good reputation and it’s very easy to destroy it,” said Ralph Keaton, executive director of the American Society of Crime Laboratory Directors. “And it takes even longer to rebuild it.” 
The fallout from San Francisco’s lab scandal is still unfolding and experts say it could take years to clean up, especially if authorities fail to establish which criminal cases were compromised. 
“I don’t think we have a full grasp on the magnitude of this yet,” said Jim Norris, former head of the lab. “A lot of this runs on trust that the lab results have been correct, but now people don’t think they are. So the whole system has grinded to a halt.” 
Madden’s attorney, Paul DeMeester, said last week that her February talk with police was honest and forthright, and she “talked about all of the wrongdoing she had committed at the lab, which is very mini­mal.” 
In the taped interview, inves­tigators pleaded with Madden to confess to skimming signifi­cant amounts of cocaine from drugs seized during arrests. A confession, they said, would take pressure off co-workers who also were being questioned and would help begin to repair the damage. 
“And it will take years for the people in that lab and the San Francisco Police Department to come back from that, even if it’s one person,” Inspector Peter Walsh told Madden on the tape. “If it’s a mistake, you just need to tell us it’s a mistake.” 
“I didn’t do it,” she said, admitting only to snorting small amounts of cocaine spilled on her work station. 
An internal review turned up significant shortages of drug evidence in several cases she handled. But Madden said she was not surprised by that because weight discrepancies occurred frequently at the lab. 


Strict Neb. abortion law faces opposition 
Associated Press 
LINCOLN, Neb. — It’s been called a groundbreaking law, but a measure approved in Nebraska last week that changes the rationale for abor­tion bans probably won’t go into effect anytime soon — if ever. 
Instead, abortion opponents are hoping it will become the most important case on abortion to reach the U.S. Supreme Court in recent memory. Even they acknowledge the ban on abor­tions at and after 20 weeks of pregnancy won’t see the light of day unless the high court rules that it is constitutional. 
Mary Spaulding Balch, legisla­tive director for National Right to Life, said a court injunction will likely prevent the implemen­tation of the law. The measure passed last week by Nebraska’s nonpartisan Legislature and signed into law by Republican Gov. Dave Heineman is sched­uled to take effect in October. 
Lower courts have no prece­dent to support the law, which bases the new restrictions on the assertion that fetuses feel pain. 
“This is a case of first impres­sion,” Spaulding Balch said. 
The long trip to the high court — if it indeed lands there — combined with the time it takes for a ruling there could mean a final decision on the law is sev­eral years away. 
First, a legal challenge must be posed. No one has stepped forward yet, but Dr. LeRoy Carhart, one of the nation’s few late-term abortion providers, is considered a likely candidate. Carhart, who practices in an Omaha suburb and is the target of the new Nebraska law, was a plaintiff in two of the biggest abortion cases of the last decade that reached the U.S. Supreme Court. 
Carhart said in a statement that the passage of the law and another that requires women to get pre-abortion screenings for mental and physical problems has strengthened his commit­ment to protecting women’s reproductive rights. 
The Center for Reproductive Rights, which has close ties to Carhart, hinted in a letter to Heineman urging him to veto the bills that it would be involved in a challenge of the ban on late-term abortions. 
“This bill is clearly unconstitu­tional and is the most extreme abortion law passed in this country in recent memory,” the letter states. It reminds Heineman that the center has litigated cases in Nebraska and across the United States in its fight for women’s reproductive rights. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Monday, April 19, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 

The ripening fruit 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnewseditor.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Viewpoint 
Joseph McMahon Lianna Kristen Durbin Brauweiler Emily Schrank Sports Graphics Michael Bryan Mary Cecilia Megan Finneran Mitsch Andrew Owens Scene Caitlin Ferraro 
With the debate on God terminating as smoothly and inconclusively as anyone could have hoped, I found myself completely at a loss for suit­able subjects for snark. My own reli­gious beliefs being 
Brooks Smith
exactly as absurd and unjustifiable 
Intellectual
as everybody else’s, I had hoped to poke some mild­ly mean-spirited fun at the militant in the (a)/theist camps while carefully obscuring my own weak points with clever rhetoric. 
As I reflected on the situation, I grew weak with shame. Was I just another Amelie Gillette (writer of The Onion’s “Hater” column), to make increasingly bland jokes at the expense of increasingly easy targets? No, I decided: I was a Serious Writer, with accompanying capital letters. After having some business cards printed (“Brooks Smith: Serious Writer/Math Enthusiast”), I sat down at the keyboard of my three-year-old, hence obsolete, Dell PC (down with Mac) and wrote the most personal, honest and original Viewpoint of my career on the subject of getting “old.” 
Having no experience in the real world, I have to peg the aging process to milestones in my scholastic devel­opment, which up until now has been a breeze. The formula for my success: Be intelligent, write papers the night before, occasionally do homework, hope the teacher likes me. Unfortunately, the latest milestone has been a doozy: I find a larger and 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Beauty is the promiseof happiness.” 
Henri B. Stendhal French writer 

larger portion of my time allocated not to the completion of busywork, but to exercises quite taxing to my intellect. 
In fact, I have finally reached that point, in both my mathematical and English development, at which it no longer suffices to coast upon my innate intelligence and interest and actual effort must be invested to con­tinue to progress toward life after college. Here I use the word “life” to mean “the lifestyle to which my par­ents have paid for me to become accustomed,” and the phrase “after college” to denote an unimaginable and probably purely theoretical state of being. The most distressing devel­opment of all this is that I have begun to detect, in my own person, signs of maturity. This is the most complex idea of all, and rather than disposing of it in a semi-witty phrase I have resolved to devote almost the whole of the next paragraph to it. 
Maturity is the state, frighteningly real and imminent for me and possi­bly for quite a few of my classmates, in which the pleasant reveries about life as it could be (and as I would find it quite pleasant to be) are quite rudely puffed away by the cold north wind of reality and I am left to face life as it is — naked and unclothed, without even the warmth and comfort of a North Face jacket. In this state all of the wistful little ideals and dreams I have cherished, say about making love to somebody with the body of Angelina Jolie, the face of Zooey Deschanel and the intellect and temperament of Susan Hampshire, disappear and I find myself instead making love to somebody with the intellect of Angelina Jolie, the tem­perament of Zooey Deschanel and the body of Margaret Thatcher. 

Yikes! 
I have therefore titled this column “The ripening fruit,” not to invite comparisons to those unpleasant brown spots on bananas after you leave them sitting around for a few days, but as a metaphor for maturity. 
This is a column on aging graceful­ly. 
This is a prolonged meditation on whether or not I will need to throw out my Daft Punk records at age 30 because I have “outgrown them.” 
This is a column exploring how suc­cessfully I will avoid becoming a rigid and calcified self-parody. 
This column raises the question of whether or not it’s too late for me to get on track to being a “cool dad” or gonzo journalist. 
This is a column on commitment: to a career, to a person, to a new hair­style with goofy sideburns. 
This is an essay on the mating habits of Hungarians, if they don’t cut that part out of the final product. [Viewpoint: We did.] 
This column is so over. 
Brooks Smith is a junior math and English major at Notre Dame. He can be contacted at bsmith26@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Toil, feel, think, hope; you will besure to dream enough before youdie, without arranging for it.” 
John Sterling
U.S. sportscaster 


The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Monday, April 19, 2010 page 11 
From partial renovation to ‘Extreme Makeover’ 
As one of the organizers of the Hesburgh Library petition, I wish to clarify our platform concerning the Library’s facilities. It seems most logi­cal to shift the discourse away from simply remodeling part of the main David Morris Library toward an 
Guest
expansion of the 
Columnist
entire Library sys­tem. I suggest this should be accomplished in four phas­es, in order of priority: 
(1) We should construct a depository 
— a high-density, temperature-con­trolled warehouse that can hold mil­lions of books. Notre Dame requires it for two reasons. In the short-term, we need a location where we can store materials without disrupting service whenever we renovate the Library. In the long-term, a depository is essen­tial for expanding collections. Though it has long been known that the stacks are approaching capacity, we have tried to circumvent the problem by reducing book acquisition, even as our competitors are increasing theirs. 
Next year, the University of Chicago will unveil a $42 million depository that can hold 3.5 million volumes, more than Notre Dame’s entire collec­tion. The British Library just opened a £26 million storage unit, while Harvard is planning further expan­sion of its depository. Top institutions understand that even with the growth of information technology, print hold­ings will always keep expanding. 
A depository is thus a crucial invest­ment, probably costing less than our new hockey arena ($50 million). Because it is a warehouse, it can be quickly constructed. It may not excite benefactors, but that hardly negates its absolute necessity: Even if we can­not find donors, its funding should come directly from the endowment. 
(2) Our Library is often torn between the competing needs of group study and quiet research, which instead should have separate facilities. Collaborative study needs should be addressed by an informa­tion commons, which would be open to the entire University, though pri­marily serving undergraduates. It should be a state-of-the-art, 24-hour complex adjacent to the main Library that provides print materials, but spe­cializes in digital resources. 
In 2008, Loyola University Chicago opened a 67,000 square-foot facility connected to its main library, with 35 group study rooms, 216 computer workstations, technical support, library reference and an all-glass, lakefront façade. It cost $28 million, about what we spent on remodeling the Joyce Center. Consider that Loyola’s donor base is comparatively small, while its endowment is one-seventeenth of ours. 
Santa Clara University, with an endowment one-ninth of ours, recent­ly invested $95 million in a new library complex, including a deposito­ry and a “learning commons” similar to Loyola’s. While Notre Dame has postponed the Library’s renovation every year since 2001 because of a lack of benefactor interest, Santa Clara garnered two donations of $20 million each, demonstrating what expanded library advancement can accomplish. 

(3) An information commons should precede renovation of the entire Hesburgh Library, which will be the costliest step: Ohio State recently spent $120 million to renovate its main library. While remaining open to all, our modernized library should emphasize research and scholarship. To quote Professor Jeffrey’s letter to The Observer (“Library will be fine under proper custodian,” April 12), if it tries “to compete with Barnes & Noble in providing cute coffee bars and comfy couches, we are certain to lose.” 
Therefore, the first two floors should be dominated by large reading rooms with enforced quiet, decor that is conducive to research (i.e. no IKEA sofas or amoeba-shaped tables) with reference material and scholar-librar­ians at hand. On the first floor, there should be a consolidated area for computers, scanners and copy machines, together with a new acqui­sitions section and a dissertation office. 
We should look to other research libraries for examples. The new British Library, built in 1997, has sep­arate reading rooms for the humani­ties, social sciences, manuscripts, rare books and music. We can accom­modate similar facilities only after the creation of the depository and the information commons. If we bypass these two steps, however, even the renovated Hesburgh Library will remain a cluttered mess, inadequate for either group study or quiet research. 
(4) Notre Dame has sought to bridge the divide between academic and res­idential life with classrooms in the new halls. In the future, Notre Dame should also consider designing its res­idences so that they have small libraries. The presence of “house libraries” is a feature of other resi­dential systems, as at Harvard or Oxford, giving students ready access to study areas and basic materials needed for classes. 
These facilities are crucial to our stated goals of providing an unsur­passed undergraduate education and becoming a preeminent research uni­versity. These aspirations are not mutually exclusive, but they both require firm commitment to and sub­stantial investment in an enhanced library system, which is the bedrock of virtually all great universities. 
David Morris is a Ph.D. student in medieval history. He can be reached at dmorris1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Respect Polish tragedy as such 
I am writing to respond to the show of disre­spect I have witnessed on campus concerning the recent tragedy in Poland, in which a plane carry­ing the Polish president, the First Lady and many senior officials crashed in Smolensk, Russia. Those on board were traveling to a ceremony that would commemorate the 70th anniversary of the Katyn massacre, when Stalin’s secret police murdered 22,000 Polish military leaders and intellectuals. Until 1990, the Soviet Union denied responsibility for the massacre, suppress­ing those who attempted to speak out. The speech President Kaczynski was to deliver last Saturday was meant to help heal a national wound, honoring the dead and offering hope of reconciliation between Russia and Poland. In a tragic coincidence, however, Poland lost its polit­ical and military leadership yet again, including the commanders of the army, air force and navy, the president of the national bank and many oth­ers. 
While world leaders have extended their con­dolences to a grieving Poland, however, the mag­nitude of what has happened has not reached certain Notre Dame students. I found the follow­ing joke in The Rover just days after the crash: “The only thing Polacks have ever contributed to civilization are John Paul II and Esperanto. They can’t even avoid crashing their presidential plane.” At Trivia night this past Thursday one team thought it would be funny to name them­selves “What’s Polish for ‘crash and burn?’” I was told that the name received bonus points for creativity. 

As a Notre Dame student who was born in Poland and is deeply affected by what is happen­ing there right now, I was very hurt to hear my fellow students treat the Polish tragedy with such disrespect. Repeating cruel stereotypes about Poles, especially at such a time, is simply mean. I’d like to point out to The Rover and to those trivia night participants that when 9/11 happened, Poles mourned with you, as did the entire world. Tragedies remain tragedies even if they do not happen to your country, and I think Poles deserve a little better than to have theirs turned into a punch line. 
Monika Grzesiak 
senior off campus April 18 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Lackluster Lolla lineup 
Summer means music festivals, and festivals mean fun. Opening Wednesday’s Observer, I noticed an arti­cle regarding my favorite sonic celebration, Lollapalooza (“Lollapalooza lineup revealed,” Courtney Cox). Being a real Chicago native and having seen two of my all-time top-five shows on the lawns adjacent to beautiful Lake Michigan (Daft Punk’s laser-pyramid and Pearl Jam in front of 100,000 in 2008), I was looking forward to solidifying the reasons why I needed to pick up a three-day pass for this year. This should not have been a difficult task (see selling a bucket of water to a man on fire), but it was surpris­ingly unsuccessful. 
I understand you have to report the headliners by definition, and that part didn’t bother me since this year’s show has something no matter what musical niche you occupy. It was the rest of the article that got me. A paragraph about MGMT, Hot Chip, Matt & Kim and Cut Copy? Except for the obvious nod to the most well-known psychedelic group of today, I was a little shocked by this selection. Cut Copy and Hot Chip owe pitchfork.com more than they could ever pay for over-hyped album coverage, and Matt & Kim? Matt & Kim? That’s my vehicle for musical salvation this summer? I am jumping ship. 
Luckily, there is more to Lollapalooza than was cov­ered by Cox. Indie rock legends Spoon and The National (Alligator is possibly indie album of the decade) are releasing new material this summer, so they’ll be on their A game in Grant Park. If you want some electro-rock, go chill with The xx, a fresh sounding group that emerged in 2009. Need some lo­fi, guitar-heavy noise explosions? Go hang 10 with Cali’s Wavves. Oh yeah, my favorite portly harmonica player John Popper is showing up with Blues Traveler. As an admitted soul child of the ‘90s, this act is a must-see. 
Music writing is too often about bashing, and that’s not my intention. I’m just trying to open some new doors for any other readers who may have felt a little dissatisfied after last week’s article, that’s all. Rock on. 
Mike Hopkinson 
senior off campus April 16 

The Observer 
Scene
page 12 Monday, April 19, 2010 

By ANKUR CHAWLA 
Scene Writer 
“Kick-Ass” is without a doubt the best superhero movie since “Spider-Man 2” (nothing can top a dude with eight arms). With awe­some action sequences and a strong comedic nature, this movie beautifully treads the line of thriller and comedy while also incorpo­rating social commentary on apathy and corruption. This is a must see for anyone who is a fan of superhero movies or appreciates “R­rated” humor and an overly violent preteen girl. 
The adventure begins with young Dave (Aaron Johnson) going through the motions of his monotonous life, as an average high school kid with dreams of hooking up with the prettiest girl in his class, his English teacher, as well as a moderately attractive student his own age, Katie. After being mugged and seeing someone witness the crime with­out taking action, Dave begins to question his faith in humanity and ask, “Why has no one ever tried to be a superhero before?” 
Dressed up in a wet-suit with a few sticks strapped to his back, Kick-Ass is born. Punching the air in alleys and running around on a rooftop, Dave trains to one day face the muggers who robbed him. In the first public appearance of Kick-Ass, he gets severely beaten up by the muggers, stabbed, stripped and taken to the hospital. With dam­aged nerve endings that dulls his sense of feeling and metal plates lining his bones, Dave becomes a slightly more durable hero 
Strutting around town in his suit, Kick-Ass begins his revitalized career looking for a lost cat. When he encounters three thugs taking on one guy, he steps in only to take a beating. Because of his medical improve­ments though, he is able to continue fighting and save the man’s life. When Kick-Ass yells at a bystander to call for help, the individual instead videotapes the fight and makes Kick-Ass an Internet sensation. After a few more trials and failures, our 


hero meets up with the father daughter crime-fighting duo of Big Daddy (Nicolas Cage) and Hit Girl (Chloe Moretz). Hit Girl makes this movie great; the young girl dual-wielding handguns and taking out mobsters was more entertaining than a magician pulling a can­taloupe out of a top hat. At the same time, Big Daddy is a great char­acter, training his daughter in a hilarious manner and raising her in a house filled with machine guns. 

Local mob boss Frank D’Amico (Mark Strong) is established as the villain, trying to hunt down the super­heroes because they are killing all of his men. Frank’s son Chris (Christopher Mintz-Plasse), in an attempt to bring Kick-Ass to his father, poses as Red Mist, another superhero, and seeks to become Kick-Ass’s side­kick. With their limited training, they are quite the 
crime stopping team. 
The casting in Kick-Ass is impeccable, and no part was better played than Hit Girl. 
Moretz, 13, brought 
her character to life and she certainly has a bright act­ing future. Frank, Red Mist and 
even every mob­ster is played very well and all have 

their comedic moments. One of the best scenes involves Frank’s large guard saying “Everything’s under control” while grabbing a bazooka from his desk. On the other hand, Kick-Ass could have been portrayed a little better, with the actor being very bland. An Andy Samberg (“SNL”) or a Jonah Hill (“Superbad”) may have been a better choice. 
Nicholas Cage provided a surprisingly good performance. Finding success in a role that does not involve stealing the Declaration of Independence coupled with the fact that he’s in enough financial trouble to take on the upcoming film “The Sorcerer’s Apprentice” 
seemed very unlikely. However, his acting was impressive as he played the role of Big Daddy bet­ter than Adam Sandler. 
This movie is the per­fect movie for the college aged demographic. Still, some may find the use of a young actress in a very “R-rated” role controversial, and the 3-shamrock review reflects that. While at times “Kick-Ass” seemed unnecessari­ly violent, that does not detract from the overall entertainment value of this film. 
“Kick-Ass” delivers laughs along with strong character development. This was one of the best superhero movies in a 
while and may even inspire you to put on a cape and try to catch the offenders NDSP emails sketches of to the student body. 
Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 

“Kick-Ass” 

Directed By: Matthew Vaughn Writers: Jane Goldmand and Matthew Vaughn Starring: Aaron Johnson, Nicolas Cage, Chloe Moretz, Christopher Mintz-Plasse and Mark Strong 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 


The Observer 

Scene
Monday, April 19, 2010 page 13 


many do. I can see the art 
Nicholas Anderson 
in many movies but usually fail to appreciate it. The point is, I’m much more akin to the average movie 
Assistant Scene 
go-er than a seasoned crit-
Editor
ic. However, there is a rea­son I’m writing this col­umn: I have never reacted so negatively to a film than I did while watching “Kick Ass.” 
I’m practically a stereotype of the film’s target audience. I’m a white male in my early 20s. I’m a 
non-obsessed fan of comic books and their fol­lowing movies from the first two entries in the excellent “Spiderman” series to the tragically 

flawed “Watchmen” and even the muddled and campy “Ghost Rider.” From my first viewing of the trailer, I was looking forward to seeing “Kick Ass.” 
The movie wasn’t without its high points. It had a number of genuinely funny parts, although in the true style of a weak movie, most can be found in the trailers. The style of the movie was near perfect. Drawing heavily from its graphic source material, director Matthew Vaughn skillfully works comics in everything from the minor touch­es to a full blown, beautifully illustrated 
flashback. Against a backdrop of these artistic com­ponents, the cast gives remarkable per­formances. Although Kick-Ass’ and Red Mist’s alter egos are towards the shallow 
end of the character pool, Chloe Moretz and Nicolas Cage give top notch per­formances as Hit Girl and Big Daddy. Cage, who excels at playing mentally unstable characters, gives his second 
best performance in recent memory, sec­
ond only to his role in “Bad Lieutenant; Port of New Orleans.” His Adam West imitation as Big Daddy and doting father 

alter ego both ring true. Cage not only manages to pull off a scene where he shoots his bulletproof -vested daughter in the chest, he does so in a loving way. Moretz, as the heavily publicized Hit Girl, shows remarkable skill on the screen, readily switching between an innocent schoolgirl and a cold-blooded killer. 
It is the treatment of Big Daddy and Hit Girl where the film falls not only apart, but into an extremely dark and disturbing place. Some minor controversy has already taken place over Hit Girl’s 
use of the c-word in the movie’s red-band trailer. Defenders of the movie predictably countered 
with, “Why is her language such a concern when she spend the entire movie killing peo­ple?” Of course, this all takes place in an R-
rated movie so the use of harsh language shouldn’t surprise anyone. The problem is exactly that raised by its defenders: The violence in this movie is com­pletely 
amoral. That is 

not to say that I do not enjoy violent movies. Like many in my generation, I like Tarantino films, and unlike many, his “Kill Bill” double feature is among my favorites. More often than not, overtly violent movies have some redeeming value. Whether it’s “Saving Private Ryan’s” gory take on war, Tarantino’s revenge fantasies or the cruelty of Japanese horror films, there is a unique point of view and critical lens through which the action occurs. 
The violence in “Kick Ass” plays like the worst type of video games; it’s stylized, brutal, celebrato­ry in its gore and meaningless in its nature. This is not a natural product of the plot of the film. 

Instead, the gratuitous and meaningless violence is the result of several important narrative details and stylistics elements. 
In the translation from comic book to big screen, a very important piece of Big Daddy’s character 
was lost. Big Daddy is a fallen cop who is attempting revenge on the man who framed him. In the film, his story ends there. In the comic, it is later revealed that this was a fan­
tasy world; Big Daddy was never wronged by mobsters and is pursuing them in an attempt to create a new life for himself and his daughter. 

While some changes are bound to be made in translation, this one is drastic. In the film, he’s a tragically unbalanced father seeking revenge; in the comic, he’s clinically insane. The audience goes from being shocked of his actions in the comic book to almost understanding in the theater. Much of the effective point of the comic is lost in this simple change. 
The film also goes to great length to continually remind you that its setting is in our world. These 
are supposed to be real life super heroes. Its flaw comes from the cartoonish violence. Hit Girl becomes some martial arts wiz­
ard, able to take down multiple armed men. These supposedly “life-like” action sequences intend for us to laugh and cheer as an 11-year-old girl, who again, 
as the movie goes out of its way to reminds us, acts in the real world, slays villain after villain, leaving a very real body count. 
The final straw come in the penultimate fighting sequence as Hit Girl kills a small army 
of heavily armed men. The director chooses a fairly com­mon technique of using a pop song over explicit violence, as successfully seen in “Reservoir Dogs” (“Stuck in The Middle with You” by Stealers Wheel) 
and “American Psycho” (“Hip to be Square” by Huey Lewis and the News). Instead of contrasting the violence and focusing on the deranged individu­als perpetrating the violence, Joan Jett’s “Bad Reputation” serves to make us see how cool it is that Hit Girl is killing people. This is not satire my friends, this is sickening. 
The views expressed in the column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Nicholas Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 19, 2010 
MLB 

Yankees complete three-game sweep of Rangers 
Astros pull through in 10th inning to win; Angels have frst Toronto sweep since 2004; Uggla leads Marlins with two runs 
Astros 3, Cubs 2 tion. With two outs, Byrd sin-

Associated Press 
Pedro Feliz hit a go-ahead gled to left, scoring Baker and 
NEW YORK — Mark Teixeira sacrifice fly in the 10th inning Soto to give the Cubs a 2-0 hit his first home run of the after Geoff Blum tied it with lead. season and Ramiro Pena an RBI double in the ninth, Astros starter Wandy delivered a key single while and the Houston Astros rallied Rodriguez allowed two runs filling in for an ailing Derek to defeat the Chicago Cubs on and six hits in seven innings. Jeter, leading Andy Pettitte Sunday. He struck out three and and the New York Yankees Tim Brydak (1-0) pitched a walked one. over the Texas Rangers 5-2 scoreless ninth to earn the Sunday for a three -game victory as Houston won its Angels 3, Blue Jays 1 sweep. first series since taking two Ervin Santana came within 
Pettitte (2-0) pitched four-hit out of three from Pittsburgh one strike of a shutout and the ball for eight innings. The Sept. 11-13, 2009. Los Angeles Angels beat the World Series champions won Jason Michaels led off the Toronto Blue Jays Sunday to their fourth in a row, taking 10th inning with a leadoff complete a three-game sweep. advantage of a wild Rich double off Cubs reliever Sean Hideki Matsui went 2 for 4 Harden (0-1) to hand Texas its Marshall (0-1). Michaels with two doubles and an RBI fourth straight loss. moved to third on Michael as Los Angeles improved to 6­
A notoriously slow starter, Bourn’s sacrifice. After inten-7 after opening the season Teixeira hit a most-overdue tional walk to Jeff Keppinger, with six losses in eight games. homer. He shared the AL lead Feliz flied out to left-center to The Angels swept a three-last year at 39 with Tampa score Michaels. Michaels easi-game series in Toronto for the Bay’s Carlos Pena. ly beat center fielder Marlon first time since July 9-11, 
Teixeira led off the third Byrd’s throw. 2004. with a high-arching drive into Houston closer Matt Santana (1-2) entered win-the second deck in right field. Lindstrom pitched a scoreless less with a 6.94 ERA in two He was hitting only .100 (4 for 10th inning for his second starts but was dominant 

40) this season when he con-save in two opportunities in against the Blue Jays, setting nected. His glovework never back-to-back days. down 17 in a row before seems to suffer despite his Cubs closer Carlos Marmol Adam Lind homered to right slumps — the first baseman couldn’t hold a 2-0 lead after on a 3-2 pitch with two outs in leaped to snag Josh an impressive outing by the ninth, his third. The next Hamilton’s liner and made a starter Ryan Dempster. batter, Vernon Wells, ended it diving, backhanded stop on Dempster recorded 13 consec-with a fly to center. and stole third, but was left bag. Matt Treanor’s grounder. utive outs beginning with Santana allowed four hits, stranded when Alex Gonzalez Reliever Burke Bandehop 
It was 2-all with two outs Feliz’s fielder’s choice that walked none and struck out struck out. then got Placido Polanco and and the bases loaded later in ended the third. The Astros five. He needed just five pitch-One day after snapping an 0 Chase Utley each to fly out to the third when Pena looped a did not get a hit until a leadoff es to retire the side in the for 18 slump, Overbay went 0 right to end the seventh. soft, two-run single for his infield single by Tommy sixth. for 3, dropping his average to Badenhop retired the side in first hit of the season. He Manzella in eighth. Toronto left-hander Ricky .080. the eighth. started because Jeter was ill That infield hit came back to Romero, who took a no-hitter Marlins closer Leo Nunez with a cold. Jeter left haunt Dempster. Bourn fol-into the eighth in his last Marlins 2, Phillies 0 pitched a perfect ninth for his Saturday’s game early, giving lowed with a walk, ending start, didn’t give up a hit Nate Robertson outdueled third save in four chances. Pena his first at-bat this year. Dempster’s outing. With run-through the first three innings Cole Hamels into the seventh Hamels, now 2-7 against 
Jorge Posada lined a solo ners on first and second and in this one, but allowed the inning and Dan Uggla drove in Florida, was pulled after giv­home run in the Yankees sev-two outs, Keppinger greeted leadoff man to reach safely in both runs with a homer and a ing up a leadoff single to enth. Marmol with an RBI single, the fourth, fifth and sixth. double, leading the Florida Jorge Cantu in the ninth. 
Pettitte made the lead stand but Marmol quickly ended the Romero escaped the first Marlins to their second Cantu extended his hitting up, retiring 12 straight batters inning with a called third two times but paid the price straight win over the streak to 17 dating to last sea-in the middle innings. Mariano strike to Feliz. after Erick Aybar doubled to Philadelphia Phillies, on son — 13 this year. Rivera closed for his fifth save In the ninth inning, Hunter lead off the sixth, then scored Sunday. Robertson ran into trouble in five tries. Pence singled off Marmol and two outs later when Matsui Making his third start for in the second, working around 
Harden never found his stole second after Cubs catch-doubled to center. Florida after being acquired three walks before Hamels rhythm, walking six and hit-er Koyie Hill couldn’t get the Romero (1-1) allowed one in a trade from the Detroit flew out to left for the final ting two batters in 3 2-3 ball out of hit mitt. Blum fol-run and five hits in eight Tigers before the end of out. innings. lowed with an RBI double innings. He walked two and spring training, Robertson (2-He then escaped another 
Elvis Andrus hit an RBI dou-down the right-field line to tie struck out six. 0) weaved in and out of trou-jam in the fourth. After ble and scored on a single by it at 2. Matsui doubled to begin the ble, striking out four and Jayson Werth reached on an Michael Young to put Texas It was Marmol’s first blown ninth against Scott Downs and walking four in 6 1-3 innings. infield single, Ben Francisco ahead 2-1 in the third. save in four opportunities. was replaced by pinch-runner Florida took two out of three followed with a ground-rule 
Harden hit Brett Gardner Dempster breezed through Mike Napoli. Kendry Morales in Philadelphia. double over the center field and Teixeira with pitches in the Houston order in his third followed with a hard grounder Cole Hamels (2-1), gave up fence and held the lead run-the first inning. Making his start of the season. He struck that went through the legs of seven hits over eight -plus ner at third. 130th start in the majors, it out the side in the fifth inning first baseman Lyle Overbay, innings, striking out a season-Robertson then struck out was the first time Harden had and finished with eight strike-scoring Napoli. high eight and walking none. Juan Castro and got Carlos plunked two hitters in a game. outs. He allowed one run, four Morales took second on the He gave up Uggla’s homer to Ruiz to line out to short cen-
The speedy Gardner kept hits and walked two in 7 2-3 throw to the plate and scored start the second inning. The ter. Cameron Maybin’s throw pestering Texas. He had three innings. when Jeff Mathis followed second baseman was 3 for 29 sailed all the way to the infield hits Saturday, and his Byrd had a two-run single in with a double, extending his against Hamels before the Marlins on-deck circle where bunt on Harden’s first pitch the Cubs’ 2-1 win over Astros hitting streak to a career-high home run. Robertson was able to retrieve Sunday barely trickled foul. on Saturday. nine games. Robertson allowed a leadoff the ball. Hamels then ended On the next pitch, Harden hit Jeff Baker had a leadoff Outfielder Fred Lewis made single in the seventh and the inning by grounding out. him in the right shin. Gardner walk in the third inning and his first start since joining Shave Victorino reached first Uggla’s third hit of the stole second and eventually Geovany Soto followed with a Toronto in Thursday’s trade on a high throw by Hanley game, in the ninth off reliever scored on a sacrifice fly by single. Dempster sacrificed with San Francisco. Lewis hit Ramirez that pulled first base-Ryan Madson drove in Cantu Robinson Cano. the runners into scoring posi-a two-out double in the third man Gabby Sanchez off the to make it 2-0. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

House 3 bed, 3 bath, new A bird may love a fish, but where ——————————————— rehab/clean, so close to ND you If you or someone you care about would they live?
FOR SALE FOR RENT PERSONAL 

can see campus from the yard! has been sexually assaulted, we 
Email alexrock@rock.com! can help. For more information, visit ——————————————— Migrating sales! on computer in ——————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Notre Dame's website: good condition plus tv and other Darling 2 bedroom, 2 bathroom cot-not go it alone. Notre Dame has http.csap.nd.edu stuff,tel:3536377 or 4045906 tage with hard wood floors, front New upscale apts. Less than 1 mil many resources in place to assist To Michelle, Ally, and Alex­——————————————— porch and patio, close to Eddy St. from ND, next to Taco Bell on SR you. If you or someone you love ——————————————— Let’s get through these last few 
Commons. 1334 Corby Blvd, avail-933. 2-story, 8 unit bldg. Each has needs confidential support or assis-weeks together. Hang in there! Do it able for summer months short term 2bd/2bath. GE appliances w/dish-tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at for the story and for brunch.WANTED lease. May, June, July $600 per washer. Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For The trouble with resisting tempta-Remember, you only live once. We 
month. Call 574-309.6961. No water/sewer bill. $1000/mo more information, visit ND's web tion is it may never come your way might as well make it worth it. Need car. Selling yours before starting. Call Holiday Inn Express site: again. - Korman’s Law going home? Tricia 574-383-2549. @ 968-8080 &amp; leave msg. http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Monday, April 19, 2010 page 15 
Men’s Division I Baseball USA Today Poll 
team previous 
1 Arizona State 1 2 UCLA 3 3 Virginia 5 4 Texas 6 5 Georgia Tech 2 6 LSU 4 7 Florida State 8 8 Arkansas 10 9 Florida 9 10 Coastal Carolina 13 11 TCU 12 12 Louisville 7 13 South Carolina 17 14 Oklahoma 16 15 Miami 14 16 Clemson 11 17 Oregon State 15 18 Mississippi 18 19 Vanderbilt 19 20 Kansas State 20 21 Arizona 22 22 Western Kentucky NR 23 Southeastern La. 24 24 Cal St. Fullerton NR 25 UC Irvine 21 
Men’s Division I Outdoor Track USTFCCCA Poll 
team previous 
1 Florida 1 2 Texas A&M 2 3 Oregon 3 4 Texas Tech 4 5 Florida State 5 6 Arizona State 10 7 Southern California 6 8 LSU 8 9 Auburn 7 10 Oklahoma 13 11 Mississippi State 11 12 South Carolina 9 13 Nebraska 12 14 Louisville 15 15 Mississippi 17 16 Baylor 14 17 Arkansas 18 18 Virginia Tech 16 19 California 19 20 Brigham Young 20 21 Minnesota 21 22 Kansas State 22 23 Tennessee 24 24 Washington State 23 25 Wisconsin 25 



around the dial 
NHL Hockey 
Sabres at Bruins 7 p.m., Versus 
NBA Basketball 
Bulls at Cavaliers 8 p.m., Versus 
NBA 


Garnett suspended for next game after fracas 
Associated Press 
WALTHAM, Mass. — Kevin Garnett doesn’t regret his role in a fracas by his opponent’s bench. Neither does the play­er he elbowed in the face. 
Garnett paid a bigger price Sunday when the NBA sus­pended him for Tuesday night’s second game of Boston’s playoff series with Miami. The Heat’s Quentin Richardson was fined $25,000. 
The pushing and woofing took place with 40 seconds left in the Celtics’ 85-76 Game 1 win Saturday night. Paul Pierce had fallen by the Heat’s bench, holding his right shoul­der in apparent pain. Garnett leaned over, then held off Richardson, coming from behind, with his left forearm. Moments later, Boston’s pas­sionate leader elbowed Richardson in the face. 

“Not at all,” Garnett said calmly Sunday when asked if he regretted his actions. “I would hope if I was hurt or if I was down in that position someone would at least give me some space to sort of recover or to gather myself. That’s the only thing I was asking for.” 
Richardson, one of Miami’s more emotional players, also shrugged off the idea of regrets. 
“Me?” he said. “I didn’t do anything regretful. I didn’t throw any punches or swing on anybody.” 
Garnett played well with 15 points and nine rebounds in his first playoff action since Game 6 of the 2008 NBA Finals, a 131-92 win over the Los Angeles Lakers that clinched Boston’s 17th cham­pionship. 
He missed last year’s play­offs with a knee injury and Boston beat Chicago in seven games before losing to Orlando in seven in the sec­ond round. 
“We know we can win. We know we can hold down the fort if KG is out a game,” Pierce said before the league announced the suspension early Sunday night. “We’re not one of those teams that when their star player goes down that’s an excuse to not play hard, not try to win the game. 
“We’re a team that feels like with KG and without KG we’re supposed to win a game” 
Observers could view the altercation as the point at which playoff intensity soared. 
They would be wrong, according to Pierce. He said he already had that feeling. 
“You’ve got to understand, both teams are playing for a championship,” he said. “There’s so much more at stake. It’s just like a prize fighter. When you fight for that goal, it’s not like the other fights. This has much more meaning. 
“You’ve got to expect that tensions are going to rise, flare-ups, but the thing is just keep it in the framework of the game to where it doesn’t get out of hand.” 
IN BRIEF 

Browns’ Jennings accused Giants place outfielder Utah’s Okur out for playoffs 
of punching bouncer Rowand on disabled list withtornleftAchilles’ tendon 
CLEVELAND — Browns running back LOS ANGELES — San Francisco Giants DENVER — Utah Jazz general man-Chris Jennings has been released from center fielder Aaron Rowand was placed ager Kevin O’Connor says center jail while authorities determine whether on the 15-day disabled list on Sunday, two Mehmet Okur has a torn left Achilles’ 
days after a fastball to his head from the tendon and is out for the remainder to file charges over allegations he hit a Dodgers’ Vicente Padilla left him with two of the playoffs.
bouncer outside a Cleveland nightclub. 

small fractures in his left cheekbone and a Okur needs surgery and will likely Jennings was arrested early Saturday mild concussion. 
miss the world championships this morning. 
“I didn’t want to go on the disabled list, 
summer in his native Turkey. He flew John O’Brien, a spokesman with the 
but I don’t have ‘MD.’ behind my name,” 
home to Salt Lake City on Sunday Cuyahoga County Sheriff’s Department, Rowand said after taking some soft-toss after an MRI revealed the tear. 
says Jennings is accused of punching the swings in the indoor batting cage. 
Okur was injured while driving to bouncer in the mouth because he refused “Apparently in their thoughts, they felt it the basket in the first half of Utah’s to allow Jennings’ friend inside without wasn’t the wise move to try to continue Game 1 loss at Denver on Saturday proper attire. playing with the fractures in my face — night. Before the game, he had taken 
simply on the premise of the possibility of 
O’Brien says the case has been turned a painkilling shot to treat his Achilles’ 

getting hit again. Obviously it’s frustrating, 
over to the county prosecutor’s office. It tendinitis, which he had been dealing 

especially with the way we’re playing and 
will determine whether to file an assault with since April 7.

the prospects of the season and everything 
charge. O’Connor said he doesn’t believe the 
else.” 
A message seeking comment was left Themishapoccurredinthefifthinningof injection had anything to do with 

Sunday for the Browns. It’s not clear Okur tearing the tendon. Okur’s right
Friday night’s 10-8 loss, when the ball whether Jennings has an attorney. struck the left ear flap of Rowand’s helmet leg slipped as he was driving, shifting Jennings rushed for 220 yards and as he turned to get out of the way. He all his weight to his left leg, which scored one touchdown as a rookie last never lost consciousness and was able to twisted awkwardly as he fell to the season. leave the field under his own power. floor. 
page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, April 19, 2010 
NFL 

Roethlisberger back after sexual assault case 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — Ben Roethlisberger will line up under center, take the snap and throw his first pass to a teammate since the Steelers ended the season Jan. 3. 
There won’t be any applause. 
There likely won’t be much reaction from his teammates, who have seen the highest-paid player in franchise history go through this routine count­less times in games and prac­tices since 2004. 
There will be countless ques­tions. 
For the Steelers, the most pressing is this: Who will be taking snaps in September? 
The Steelers return to the practice field Monday for the first time since their 9-7 record wasn’t good enough to get them into the playoffs. Roethlisberger is expected to be among them, one week to the day since prosecutors decided not to charge him after a college student accused him of sexual assault. 
While there won’t be a crimi­nal proceeding that could have disrupted the Steelers before, during or after the season, the fallout from Roethlisberger’s latest off-the-field problem and its impact on a team that regu­larly contends for champi­onships could be long-lasting. 
First, Roethlisberger must try to win back his teammates’ support — something team president Art Rooney II said probably can’t be achieved in a day, a week or a month. 
It’s not just ownership that is running out of patience with an athlete who can’t seem to dodge missteps, the very play­er — the high-priced quarter­back and proven winner — who is most expected to be a leader. 
“He’s going to have to work very hard to rehabilitate his image,” Rooney said. “There’s no question that it’s taken a hit and we’ve told him it’s going to be a long journey back and he’s going to have to be up to meeting the challenge.” 
Second, it is very likely Roethlisberger won’t line up under center when the Steelers open the season. The question is whether he will be suspend­ed by the NFL for four games, two games or one. Or if there will be counseling and rehabili­tation involved. The punish­ment is likely to be determined by commissioner Roger Goodell next week, following this week’s three-day draft. 
By waiting for the NFL to work out a penalty for violating the league’s personal conduct policy that is acceptable to the team, the options for appeal are far more limited than if the Steelers had acted themselves. 
“There were a lot of pieces to the puzzle that probably pre­vent us from moving ahead on our own at this point,” Rooney said. 
No matter how many games Roethlisberger is out, the Steelers must prepare someone else to take his place — third-year quarterback Dennis Dixon, who has started only one game, or longtime backup Charlie Batch. That means more practice time for some­one other than Roethlisberger and an altered routine during training camp. 
“We don’t necessarily have a backup plan at this time,” coach Mike Tomlin said. “We’ll let the process run its course and kind of make decisions from there.” 
If Roethlisberger is suspend­ed, the Steelers would have to get him back to game speed quickly once he returned, and with a season already under way. That could mean longer in-season practices devoted to Roethlisberger getting the work he needs to be game-ready. 
There is likely to be resent­ment in the locker room, too, whether it’s stated or not, from teammates who are simply worn out with the Roethlisberger-created disrup­tions. This is the third time in four years it’s happened, and even the most patient of play­ers must be wondering when they will stop. 
In 2006, Roethlisberger crashed his motorcycle four months after winning the Super Bowl, and the Steelers subsequently missed the play­offs. Last year, he was accused of sexual assault in Nevada not long before training camp began — and, again, the Steelers missed the playoffs the season after winning the Super Bowl. That suit remains unre­solved. 
That’s a pattern that Rooney hinted the Steelers can no longer follow. 


“I don’t want to get into hypotheticals about what we might do next,” Rooney said. “The most important thing is that Ben stays committed to doing what he has to do to uphold his end of the bargain.” 
It starts Monday. When it ends, the Steelers can only begin to guess. 

Monday, April 19, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NHL 
Coyotes win despite loss of players 
Associated Press 
DETROIT — The Phoenix Coyotes have thrived in the face of adversity all season. 
They did it again Sunday in Game 3 against the Detroit Red Wings. 
Overcoming the 
scored midway through the third period to lift the Coyotes to a 4-2 victory and a 2-1 series lead. 
“From where we’ve come from, 
a couple 
injuries are not going to deter us,” Phoenix coach Dave Tippett said. “Shane is a great player, he’s our leader, but we recog­nized we had a game to play.” 
Phoenix scratched forward Vernon Fiddler, who got hit in the lip by a stick in Game 2, and lost Doan on his first shift of the sec­ond period when he appeared to have an upper-body injury after running into the endboards. 
“They just got better,” Detroit coach Mike Babcock said. “With no Fiddler and no Doan, they had 
loss of captain 
“If you look back from
Shane Doan and 
another key play-the start of the year, 
er, Petr Prucha it was part of our and Radim Vrbata 
identity that you can 
overcome anything.” 
Dave Tippett Coyotes coach 
NHL buying 
the puck more than we did.” 
The Coyotes have overcome a series of off­the-ice set­backs, starting with their pre­vious owner taking the fran­chise into bank­ruptcy last year leading to the the team in 
November. Wayne Gretzky resigned as coach nine days before the opener and was replaced by Tippett on the bench. 
“If you look back from the start of the year, it was part of our identity that you can overcome anything,” Tippett said. 
Detroit overcame the loss play­ers who combined to score 88 goals last season — when it was a win away from repeating as Stanley Cup champions — and a slew of injuries to extend the longest playoff streak in sports with a 19th straight appearance in the postseason. 
The fifth-seeded Red Wings were the hottest team in the NHL entering the playoffs, but they’re having trouble with the fourth-seeded Coyotes, who were almost as successful after the Olympic break. 
“It’s interesting how the per­ception from you people is we’re supposed to just crush them,” Babcock bristled to reporters. “They’re a good team, too.” 
Detroit will host Game 4 on Tuesday night, needing a win to avoid being on the brink of elimi­nation. 
The Red Wings will have to start and finish much better than they did Sunday. 

NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Moore branches out post-UConn 
preparation for the FIBA World 
Associated Press 
Championship, a 16-team tour-

HARTFORD, Conn. — It does-nament that begins Sept. 23. n’t matter what team Maya The teams, which were com-Moore plays for or what uni-prised of players in the WNBA form she wears. The UConn and college, played four 10­All-American usually ends up minute games. To speed the on the winning tempo, there side. was a 24-sec-
Even when the ond shot clock 
games don’t “She comes out and and players count. had eight sec-
she plays hard every
Moore scored onds to bring 
second.” 
32 points in four the ball over 
scrimmage the midcourt 
games between Renee Montgomery line. 
the USA Moore, who 
UConn guard
Basketball has helped 
Women’s nation-UConn win 
al and select back -to -back 
teams before an estimated NCAA championships and 78 
crowd of 3,000. consecutive wins, led the The exhibition concluded the national team to victories in 
weeklong spring training in the first two games. Then she switched teams and jerseys, going from red to white, and helped the select team win the final two games. “Four and 0,” said Renee Montgomery, Moore’s former teammate at UConn. “She comes out and she plays hard every second. That’s the thing that Maya’s always going to do. She’s going to give it her all, and usually she’s successful.” Moore made a total of seven shots behind the 3-point arc, including her first five. It was a familiar scene to national team coach Geno Auriemma, Moore’s coach at UConn. “The more you see Maya play, the more she’s around the best players, Maya gets into these zones,” Auriemma said. “Even at this level among all these great players, there’s something different about Maya. You could see it at the end of the game there, some of the plays that she makes.” In the final scrimmage with Moore’s team trailing by two, she stole the ball and found Montgomery open for a 3­pointer that gave the select team a 22-21 lead. Then in the closing seconds, Moore stole the ball from an opposing play­er and made the game-winning shot. “She doesn’t lose,” national team forward Angel McCoughtry said of Moore. “She just raises the bar and raises it for everybody else. She exceeds her generation.” After helping the national team win the first two games, Moore donned a white jersey and played for the select team in the third scrimmage. Late in that game, Auriemma alerted an official at the table that the scoreboard was incorrect. “Seriously, it's 16-14. Maya’s up two," Auriemma said. Moore’s team ended up win­ning that game by three. In the final scrimmage, her team trailed by eight before rallying for a 27-25 win. Allison Hightower scored 10 points to lead the comeback. The former LSU player was one of eight players taken in the recent WNBA draft. “The players who just gradu­ated and are going into the (WNBA), this is a good head start for training camp and kind of gives them a feel of what to expect in a couple weeks when training camp starts,” Auriemma said. “I think everybody that was here benefits from this week.” 


page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, April 19, 2010 
PGA 
Davis’ playoff penalty gives Furyk the win 
Associated Press 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND, S.C. — Brian Davis called a two-stroke penalty on himself on the first playoff hole Sunday to give Jim Furyk a victory at the Verizon Heritage. 
Davis, an Englishman who’s never won on the PGA Tour, used a birdie on the 72nd hole to force the extra hole. However, Davis’ approach rolled off the green of the lighthouse hole and into some rocks. 
As Davis attempted to chip on, his wedge moved a loose reed in the marshy area. Davis quickly called for a rules official, who after calling colleagues to check the replay, confirmed the penalty. 
“I thought I saw movement,” Davis said. “It”s a disappoint­ment.” 
Davis conceded to Furyk before the world’s sixth-ranked player putted out. 
Furyk shot a 69 to finish at 13­under 271. The victory was his 15th PGA Tour win and second since March, earning him $1.026 million. 
Davis nearly won in regulation, his approach to his final hole scaring the cup before settling 18 feet away. His birdie putt had just enough steam to drop in and force the extra hole. 
Instead of riding that momen­tum into the playoff, his second shot rolled off the side toward Calibogue Sound and rattled around the rocks before stopping on some hard-packed sand. 
That’s when Davis ended the drama with his self-imposed vio­lation, something inconceivable in most other sports, where com­petitors take pride in getting every edge they can. 
Davis finished second for the fourth time since joining the PGA Tour in 2004. 
He held a one-shot lead over Furyk with four holes left when things began to go wrong. Davis had back-to-back bogeys on the 15th and 16th holes to slip behind the ultra-steady Furyk. 
Furyk has also posted two sec­onds and a fourth since 2005 at Harbour Town. 
Davis shot a 68 and, like Furyk, ended with four rounds in the 60s. 
Bo Van Pelt (69) and Luke Donald (70) were two shots fur­ther back in third. 
Camilo Villegas (70) headed a group another stroke behind. 
The final round wasn’t nearly as crazy as the third — Furyk still had the lead when he teed off on No. 1 unlike Saturday. Still, the charge was on to go as low as possible and take control. 
Slocum, two behind at the start, had birdies on the second, fourth and six holes to catch Furyk. 
Former champion Aaron Baddeley tied Furyk at 11 under. But a triple-bogey 7 on No. 8 — Baddeley drove out of bounds — ended his chance of a second title. 
By the middle of the back nine, it was down to Furyk and Davis. 
Furyk missed a 15-foot par putt on the 10th to drop into a tie with Davis, his playing partner. 
The world’s sixth-ranked play­er moved back in front two holes later with 5-footer for birdie. However, Davis caught him once more on the 13th hole after mak­ing a 12-foot birdie putt and Furyk failing to covert one from half that distance. 
Davis moved in front on the par-3 14th when Furyk landed over the green, chipped 12 feet past the cup and was short on his attempt at par. 
But things were again tied a hole later, as Davis didn’t make a 6-foot putt to save par, setting the dramatic finish. 
TENNIS 
Nadal beats Verdasco; wins at Monte Carlo 
Associated Press 
MONACO — Rafael Nadal’s title drought is over. 
Nadal won his first tourna­ment in nearly a year on Sunday, defeating Fernando Verdasco 6-0, 6-1 in an all-Spanish final at the Monte Carlo Masters. 
The second-seeded Nadal overpowered Verdasco with a stunning display of attacking clay-court tennis to earn his sixth straight victory at Monte Carlo, but his first title since the Rome Masters in May 2009. 
“Last year I didn’t play well but won; this year the level is completely different,” Nadal said. “I have been playing well since the start of the season.” 
He was relieved to win again after losing consecutive Masters semifinals on hard courts at the BNP Paribas Open and the Sony Ericsson Open. 
“It was a lot of work. A lot of work,” Nadal said. “For sure, this year is really special for me. One of the most special because I had a little bit of a hard time for the last year.” 
Nadal is the only player to win six consecutive titles at the same tournament since tennis turned professional in 1968, and the 23-year-old has tied top-ranked Roger Federer with 16 Masters titles, one behind Andre Agassi’s record. 
“I was a little bit nervous — I didn’t win a tournament for a while,” said Nadal, who last year lost to Robin Soderling at the French Open and battled knee problems that sidelined him for more than two months. 
He was glad to be back play­ing his best on his favorite sur­face. 
“Probably one of my best (performances) on clay,” Nadal said. “One of my best levels on clay for sure.” 
He sealed the win on his first match point with a forehand pass and fell to the ground, rolling on his back as he savored his victory. 
NFL 

Colts unfazed by draft picks 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS — Colts president Bill Polian will take the late picks and mediocre grades every draft weekend. 
He’s more concerned about the final marks. 
Whether his teams are picking early or late, filling a need or taking the best play­er left on the board, trading up or down, Polian has an uncanny knack for getting it right in the NFL draft. 
“It’s a real art, but Bill knows what he’s looking for, and he knows what the most important characteristic for success is in an offensive lineman or a running back,” NFL draft consultant Gil Brandt said. “He drafts them and they’re safe players. Those safe players might not end up going to the Pro Bowl but if you get enough of them, you’ll be a playoff team." 
Polian’s masterful selec­tions have turned the Colts from a bottom dweller in the 1980s and 1990s into one of the league’s model franchis­es. 
Despite having only one pick in the top 15 from 2000­09, Indy missed the playoffs only once during a decade in which it won a league record 115 games, set another league mark with 23 straight wins, captured two AFC titles and one Super Bowl crown. 
Such consistency is not supposed to happen in a league that prefers parity to dominance and relies on a salary-cap and a weighted draft to help the worst teams improve while breaking up dynasties. Or for a guy who traditionally gets B’s or C’s from the instant analysis .... 
But Polian has never been much of a conformist. 
By relying on his old-school study habits, Polian has pro­duced signature master ­pieces with his late first-round picks, a trait that will come in handy again Thursday night when the Colts pick at No. 31. 
His signature pieces: 

— 
Taking Dallas Clark at No. 24 in 2003. The record-setting tight end finally made it to his first Pro Bowl last season. 

— 
Taking receiver Reggie Wayne at No. 30 in 2001. Wayne is the Colts’ No. 2 all-time leading receiver and has been to four straight Pro Bowls. 

— 
Trading down twice in 2004 before choosing safety Bob Sanders at No. 44. Sanders was the 2007 NFL defensive player of the year and a key part in Indy’s 2006 Super Bowl run. 


So what’s Polian’s next magic trick? It’s anybody’s guess. 
“I think Bill takes the best player that’s there, and I think he showed that when he took (Anthony) Gonzalez a couple of years ago,” Brandt said. “The guy works hard, he knows how to grade play­ers, he has good contacts at the college level. That’s why he’s so good.” 
Polian isn’t dropping any hints about who he’ll be tar­geting at No. 31 though it is clear he wants to improve a Colts’ offensive line. 
The overhaul has already begun. 
Longtime offensive line coach Howard Mudd retired after the Super Bowl loss to New Orleans, and Pete Metzelaars has moved into Mudd’s old spot. Indy released starting left guard Ryan Lilja in March and added two free agents, guard Andy Alleman and tackle Adam Terry. Both are bigger than the linemen Indy has traditionally relied on in the Peyton Manning era, and it looks like Polian wants for another big body in the draft. 
Finding one will be tough. 
At least three offensive tackles — Russell Okung, Bryan Bulaga and Trent Williams — could go in the top 10. Guard Mike Iupati, center Maurkice Pouncey and tackle Anthony Davis could all be gone by No. 20. And some are projecting tackles Charles Brown and Rodger Saffold could be off the board before Indy picks, too, leaving the Colts with little to choose from. 
But Polian always seems to find an answer that works. 
“We’re all always on the same page, in terms of our 
organization,” coach Jim Caldwell said in March. 
“T here’s  no  bickering,  n o  
f r a g m e n t e d  s o r t  o f  
response.”  

So if Polian doesn’t get a top linemen, he’ll shift to Plan B. 
Indy lost Marlin Jackson in free agency and may be tempted to take a corner­back, like Kyle Wilson from Boise State. Polian he could look to add depth on the defensive line with players such as Jared Odrick, Everson Griffen or Jerry Hughes. Polian may even look for a a trade. 
Whatever he does, he’s likely to find someone who can help — as he always does. 
“Sometimes you get guys that look the part, but don’t play the part,” Brandt said. “Other times you get guys that don’t look the part, but play the part. Bill always seems to find someone who fits the part.” 


Monday, April 19, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Early hits help lead Belles to key victories 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles drop in close match 
one more doubles match I one close point could change 
By MATTHEW ROBINSON 
think we could have won,” the whole outcome of a 
Sports Writer 
Gebert said. “Having the edge match and I think that is 
going into singles is really what happened in a few of 
The Belles dropped their crucial.” our final singles matches.” third straight MIAA confer-Because Kalamazoo and Gebert said that she focus­ence match Saturday, falling Saint Mary’s are so close in es on one match at a time, to Kalamazoo the MIAA using each previous match as 6-3. standi ngs, a jumping off point, making 
Saint Mary’s there is a high the necessary improvements. 
“If we could have
(8-7, 2-3) stuck p r o b a b i l i t y That is something that Belles close with the pulled out one more that Saturday coach Dale Campbell has 
will not be the stressed the entire season. 
Hornets (9-7, doubles match I think 
4-2) but could last time the “Personally, I approach 
we could have won.” 
not avoid Belles and every match with a sense of dropping one Hornets will urgency, as if this is the more spot in Camille Gebert square off this match that matters the the MIAA year. most,” Gebert said. “As a
Belles Senior 
rankings, “There is a team, we go into each match which will very great with a determination to d e t e r m i n e chance that improve on the last match.” seeding for the postseason we will see them in the first With only a few matches tournament. round of the conference tour-left in the MIAA season, the 
“We played Kalamazoo nament,” Gebert said. “Based Belles need to find that gen-really close and it came down on our perform-tle balance to a few matches at the end,” ance yesterday, I b e t w e e n senior captain Camille Gebert have confidence “As a team, we go urgency and said. “I think we all knew it that we will pull into each match with improve-was going to be a matter of through and beat ment. With 
a determination to 
one or two points.” them.” the postsea­
improve on the last
Gebert won at No. 2 sin-Gebert said a son tourna­gles, junior Franca Pelusa few breaks that match.” ment rapidly won at No. 4 singles and the went Kalamazoo’s a p p r o a c h ­No. 2 doubles team of juniors way had a big ing, Saint 
Camille Gebert 
Mary Therese Lee and Jillian impact on many M a r y ’ s 
Belles Senior
Hurley claimed a victory. of the matches. needs to put 
Gebert won her singles “I think the themselves match 6-2, 6-2, but she felt major factor in in the best another victory in doubles the outcome was momen-possible position in order to would have given the Belles tum,” Gebert said. “There make a run at the conference the necessary encouragement was a point when four of the title. to go out and win the match singles matches were looking outright. good for us. We had the Contact Matthew Robinson at 
“If we could have pulled out momentum. But in tennis, mrobinson@nd.edu 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
The Belles earned a pair of important victories Saturday, defeating conference foe Olivet in both games of a doublehead­er. 
Saint Mary’s (18-14, 7-3 MIAA) entered the game Saturday with aspirations of staying in the run­ning for a division title. Belles coach Erin Sullivan said that in order to stay competitive in the conference, the team needed to “beat the teams [they] are sup­posed to beat.” 
“Olivet was one of those teams,” she said. 
Saint Mary’s set the tone early as four consecutive first inning hits resulted in a quick pair of runs. The Comets (11-14, 4-6 MIAA) would seize the lead after a lone run in the first and two in the second. 
The Belles answered in the top of the third with three runs, including a home run from freshman Morgan Bedan, her fourth of the season. This gave the Belles a 5-3 lead that they did not relinquish, winning the game 8-5. 
Sophomore Angela Gillis pitched a complete game for the Belles, giving up seven hits and striking out a pair. 
Game two of the doubleheader came down to the wire. After six innings of play, the two teams were all even with a tie score of 4-4. Trying to avoid extra innings, the Belles came out motivated to score in the top of the seventh. 
“Our hitters knew we had to execute one run in the bottom of seven, and they just made it look easy. Lauren Enayati led off with a blast up the middle and our next three hitters moved her around the bases to win the game,” Sullivan said. 
Sophomore infielder Angela Gillis singled home the winning run to give the Belles the 5-4 vic­tory. 
Sullivan was especially pleased by the performance of her start­ing pitcher in the second game. 
“Monica Palicki was lights out. She hit her spots and after a walk or a hit, she came back and got the next hitter. She was very mentally tough,” Sullivan said. 
Palicki picked up the win for Saint Mary’s, striking out five and giving up four runs in seven innings of work. 
Adding to the winning effort were seniors Maureen Healy and Ashley Peterson, who both had four hits in the second con­test. 
The Belles next play Wednesday, traveling to face conference rival Hope in a dou­bleheader starting at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 


page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, April 19, 2010 
MEN’S TENNIS 
Team ends regular season with 7-0 win 
By KATELYN GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish ended their regu­lar season on a high note Saturday, defeating Navy 7-0. Notre Dame will look to take their momentum from the shutout into the Big East tour­nament this week. 
“Navy is a special match for me,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss, who coached the Midshipmen for 15 seasons, said. “The Academy is bring­ing back people who played under me there. It’s a reunion of sorts for me and a chance to see players I haven’t in years, all who have gone to be very successful in their lives.” 
The Irish jumped out to an early lead, claiming the dou­bles point and improving their record to 10-1 on the season when earning the first point in the match. 
Junior Tyler Davis improved his record to 4-1 on the sea­son in dual singles matches, defeating Nicholas Gutsche 6­1, 6-3 at No. 6 singles. 
No. 93 junior Dan Stahl was able to clinch the third point in the match for the Irish as he defeated Anderson Walls 6-2, 6-3. 
Fellow junior Stephen Havens clinched the win for the Irish at No. 2 singles, defeating Marcus Rebersak 6­3, 6-2. 
David Anderson extended the lead to 5-0 for the Irish after winning at No. 5 singles with a win over Zach Nicholson in two sets. 
“David Anderson has come on strong for us as the season has progressed,” Bayliss said. “He has added good all court skills and can finish at the net, something that was prob­lematic for him as a fresh­man. He has a big first serve, penetrating ground strokes and counters better than he did even a year ago. More than anything he has a real presence on the court and great determination.” 
Next off the court was soph­omore Samuel Keeton, as he defeated Jeremy New at No. 4 singles by a score of 7-5, 6-2. 
Fellow sophomore Casey Watt was able to pull out a win in three sets at No. 1 sin­gles to round out the sweep for the Irish. 
The Irish will return home as they host the Big East championships beginning April 22. 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at kgraba01@saintmarys.edu 
TRACK 
Irish tally 21 top-five finishes at Dave Rankin 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
The first day at the Mt. SAC Relays brought seven top-five finishes for the Irish, including one first place finish. That only marked the beginning of a suc­cessful weekend. The following day six members of the Irish team took first in their events at multiple competitions. 
Senior Daniel Clark won the men’s 1500-meter Olympic Development University/Open by less than half a second at 3:43.23, senior Joanna Schultz won the women’s 400-meter hurdles by a margin of six hun­dredths of a second with a time of 58.47 at the Mt. SAC Relays and senior Eric Quick won the men’s triple jump with a dis­tance of 14.82 meters at the Long Beach Invitational. 
Junior Marissa Treece won the women’s 1500-meter at 4:36.23, junior Miklos Szebeny won the men’s 100-meter dash at 10.74, freshman Rebecca Tracy won the women’s 800­meter at 2:10.58 and senior Balazs Molnar won the men’s 400-meter hurdles with a time of 54.42 at the Dave Rankin Invitational hosted by Purdue. 
During the first day of events at the Mt. SAC Relays, Quick took second in the men’s long jump, sophomore Kevin Schipper took fourth in the men’s pole vault at 5.20 meters and freshman Nevada Sorenson took third in the 100-meter hur­dles. 
Sorenson, who took first place last week, said she is pleased with her races so far this sea­son, but still striving to run the best she can. 
“When I’m warming up for my race I’m not thinking about how fast I have to go to win; I’m thinking about how fast I need to go to PR. Winning is fun, but improving my times is my main focus,” Sorenson said. 
Freshman Jeremy Rae and sophomores Jordan Carlson and Johnathan Shawel dominated the men’s 1500-meter, taking second, third and fourth respec­tively. 
The Dave Rankin Invitational brought the best results for the Irish, with a total of 21 top-five finishes, 11 of which were in the top three. 
For the women, junior Rudy Atang finished third in the shot put with a distance of 14.72 meters, junior Jasmine Williams finished third in the long jump at 5.89 meters, sophomore Maddie Buttinger finished sec­ond in the high jump at 1.67 meters and third in the 100­meter hurdles at 14.97 and sen­ior Jaclyn Espinoza finished sec­ond in the discus throw at 50.93 meters. 
The Irish have their last meets before the Big East champi­onships beginning Thursday at the Drake Relays in Des Moines, Iowa, and Friday at the Hillsdale Relays in Hillsdale, Mich. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Squad defeats Golden Eagles 6-1 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame concluded its regular season Sunday with a 6-1 win over Marquette, secur­ing first place in the regular season and the No. 1 seed in the conference for this week­end’s Big East tournament. 
After moving up one position in the rankings this week, the No. 5 Irish swept the Golden Eagles for the doubles point, and won each of the first three singles contests to clinch the victory. 
“It is always emotional for Senior Day, and both of the seniors in the lineup played really well today,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “It was a good match to get ready for the Big East.” 
The win over the Golden Eagles improved the Irish record to 19-3. 
“[The Golden Eagles] are pretty beat up, and their depth is usually a little big better because they’ve had kids out of the lineup due to injuries,” Louderback said. “We’re a top five team, and they came in and definitely weren’t afraid of playing us.” 
Third ranked sophomore Kristy Frilling and senior Kali Krisik defeat­ed their Mar quett e they have won the two match­es before this, both top-20 teams and handled them pret­ty easily.” 
The victory of Irish second doubles team of senior Cosmina Ciobanu and sopho­more Shannon Mathews 8-1 secured the first point of 
Eagles won Sunday afternoon. 
“We’ve been down in some matches where we have made great comebacks to get wins this season, and we’ve won a lot of close ones form people stepping up,” Louderback said. “Also, we’ve had Kali Krisik out with injuries, and 

the game in while she was 
“We’ve been down in 
Notre Dame’s gone, we had 
some matches where
f a v o r . wins against Freshman we have made great top-20 teams C h r i s s i e which is hard to 
comebacks this 
McGaffigan do when you 
season.” 
and junior lost someone of Kristen Rafael her caliber.” delivered the Jay Louderback In practice, sweep in third the Irish will be
Irish coach
doubles, 8-3. 

“I really like the way that all three of our doubles teams mesh well together,” Louderback said. 
In singles play, Notre Dame quickly clinched a win by claiming the first three singles contests. Notre Dame’s first singles player No. 15 Frilling shutout the Golden Eagles’ first singles competitor Paula Calderon. 
“Frilling bounced back after losing against DePaul Friday, and she didn’t lose a game today,” Louderback said. “At No. 1 singles that doesn’t hap­pen often, but playing inside is something that 
opponents at first doubles 8-2.  “It is always emotional for Senior Day, and  helps her a lot.” Krisik and Rafael each  
“If we keep  both of the seniors in  defeated their  
working at it, Frilling and Krisik are  the lineup played really well today.”  opponents in two sets as the match was  
going to give  decided,  and  
themselves a shot at win-ning the  Jay Louderback Irish coach  Ciobanu and M c G a f f i g a n each won their  
NCAA doubles  matches to add  
this  year,”  two more points  
L o u d e r b a c k  to  the  Irish  

said. “Krisik and Frilling are total. A tough tie-breaker loss not making errors, they are from Shannon Mathews led to returning a lot of serves and the only point the Golden working on preparing for the upcoming 
Big East tournament where they will search for their 15th consecutive conference title. 
“We’ll be playing a lot of the same teams we’ve been play­ing in the last few weeks, but we’re also looking forward to playing a few of the big east teams we haven’t played yet,” Louderback said. “It’s the Big East, you never know what’s going to happen.” 
The tournament will take place April 22-25 at Notre 
Dame’s  Courtney  Tennis  
Center  and  South  Bend’s  
Leeper Park.  

Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 



Monday, April 19, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish take two of three at Louisville 


By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish came out on top after winning two games and losing one in a three game away series against No. 24 Louisville this weekend. 
“Anytime you go down to Louisville, it’s going to be a bat­tle,” Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. “They’re not at easy team to beat so we came out alive.” 
On Saturday, the No. 24 Irish won their first contest of the day 5-0 as junior 
pitcher Jody “Anytime you go down Valdivia led the 
to Louisville, it’s going 
Irish with a one-
to be a battle. They’re 
hitter and her 16th shutout of not an easy team to the season. 
beat so we came out 
Junior Brianna 
alive.” 
Jorgensborg ’s two-run home run in the fifth Deanna Gumpfinning and junior 
Irish coach 
Katie Fleury’s two RBIs in the third inning were both crucial offensive plays that led the Irish to victory. 
“[Jorgensborg] broke into the lineup when Erin Marrone got injured, and she’s been hitting shots,” Gumpf said. “Losing your leading hitter is brutal so we’ve been looking for some­one who could step up, and I believe that Brianna has done that 100 percent. If you look at what she’s done since Erin has been down, she’s been phe­nomenal.” 


Valdivia suppressed the Cardinals’ offense to one single, the only Louisville hit of the game. 
“Jody is the one we’ve had to depend on all year. That’s her job, and she wants that job,” Gumpf said. “I expect her to win, and I expect her to find a way to win in every game.” 
The Irish witnessed their nine game win streak come to an end as the Cardinals handed 
them their first confer­ence loss since the 2009 regular season in their second game Saturday, topping Notre Dame 4-1. 
Freshman pi tchers Brittany O’Donnell and Jackie 
Bowe each pitched for the Irish. O’Donnell started and threw three innings for three earned runs, and Bowe relieved and earned the other two Cardinals’ runs. 
“[O’Donnell and Bowe] are getting their feet wet,” Gumpf said. “The freshman are here to keep us in the ball game, so we needed to hit.” 
Senior Heather Johnson was the only Irish player to touch home plate, as her solo home run in the sixth inning stopped the Cardinals from shutting out the Irish. 
The difficulty the Irish had at the plate can be attributed to the talent of lefty Cardinal pitcher Teri Collins. 
“I think [Collins] did a good job of keeping us off-balance,” Gumpf said. “She spun it well and kept the ball away from us.” 
The Irish redeemed them­selves Sunday on the second day of play with a 3-1 victory over the Cardinals to take the weekend series. 
“Really, it came down to one inning,” Gumpf said. “When you lead off an inning with a triple, you know big things are going to happen.” 
Scoreless until the fourth inning, the game was decided by senior Christine Lux’s three run home run that brought in Johnson and Fleury. 
“It felt like a weight was lifted off everyone’s shoulders,” Gumpf said. “When you get a three run lead with Jody on the mound, you’re going to win.” 
Despite the one Cardinal run scored in the bottom of the sev­enth, Valdivia suppressed the threat of a hopeful Cardinal offensive rally and earned her 27th win of the season. 
Chances the Irish will play the Cardinals again in the Big East tournament are good as they are the top two teams and the only nationally ranked teams in the conference. 
“Nothing changes for prac­tice,” Gumpf said. “We’ll just attack improvement, and we’re going to focus on some more situational stuff this week. Our goal is to keep getting better everyday.” 
Next, the Irish will play Valparaiso at Notre Dame’s Melissa Cook Stadium Wednesday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
Notre Dame’s 2-1 victory on Saturday after tossing a 1-2-3 ninth, and went 3-for-5 and scored the winning run in the 10th inning to seal a 6-5 victo­ry on Friday. 
The entire senior class has taken it upon themselves to salvage the remainder of the conference season in the hopes of securing their first Big East title. Senior left fielder Ryan Connolly sparked the Irish rally Sunday with a two-out base hit in the ninth and has now reached base safely in 46 consecutive games. 
Senior first basemen Casey Martin tallied two multi-hit games over the weekend and knocked in three RBIs on get­away day. 
“All-in-all, the seniors are stepping up, and we talked about that,” Schrage said. “We talked that they had a month left in their careers and they want to make something hap­pen, and they’re going out and doing it.” 
While timely hitting and solid defense in the late innings played a critical role in Notre Dame’s success, the bullpen continues to be the team’s strength. The core relievers of Mills, sophomore Will Hudgins, sophomore Joe Spano and sen­ior Steve Mazur combined to throw nine and two-thirds scoreless innings against Seton Hall. 
“It was a great team effort by the pitching staff,” Schrage said. “We went to four differ­ent guys, so it was a complete team effort and they did a great job of shutting Seton Hall down and giving our bats a chance to win a couple of ball games late. They’ve been our most consistent part of our game.” 
Notre Dame’s second road sweep of the season took the team from the cellar of the conference standing to the middle of the pack in one weekend. The squad looks to continue its winning ways when it takes on Michigan Tuesday in Ann Arbor. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Sweep 
continued from page 24 
the next 18 conference games and each weekend being so important, and we’re off and running.” 
Mills had a key role in all three Irish victories over the Pirates (13-20, 3-9). Mills picked up the save during 


page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, April 19, 2010 
MEN’S LACROSSE 
Team nets first Big East win over Friars 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
In their first ever Big East conference victory, the Irish cashed in on goals from eight different scorers for an 11-3 rout of Providence Saturday in Arlotta Stadium. 
Both Providence (0-10, 0-3) and Notre Dame (6-5, 1-3) came into Saturday’s matchup winless in the conference, and the Friars left still looking for their first Big East win, which would also be their first win overall this season. 
Irish coach Kevin Corrigan attributed the win to Notre Dame’s ability to dictate the flow of the game. 
“We tried to play very aggres­sively,” Corrigan said. “We 10­man rode them and we didn’t let [Providence] dictate the tempo, and we got a lot of easy turnovers.” 
Goals came from junior Zack Brenneman, who had a game-high four points with two goals and two assists, sophomores Nicholas Beattie and Sean Rogers, seniors Neal Hicks, Grant Krebs, Colin Igoe and freshman Ryan Foley and Steve Murphy. 
Assists came from Krebs, sophomore Max Pfiefer and junior David Earl. 
The Irish defense was led by freshman goalie John Kemp, who had five saves and stifled the Friar attack, allowing their lowest goal total of the season. 
Senior goaltender Brendan Moore relieved Kemp for the final minutes, but did not face a 



Arena 
continued from page 24 
more importantly I think it’s going to be something where our players will have a sense of pride in the building they play in.” 
Located just north of Angela Blvd., the new facility features a number of improvements over the Joyce Center, the current home of the hockey program. 
The new arena will have a maximum capacity of 4,900 spread over the ground, con­course and balcony levels. The student section will be doubled and positioned in the heart of the visitor’s section. 
Years in the making, the com­mitment to upgrade the hockey facilities was taken to the next level upon athletic director Jack Swarbrick’s arrival on campus. Instead of going forward with an original renovation plan, Swarbrick and Jackson opted for a $53 million investment in the new arena. 
“I give Jack a lot of credit for having that kind of vision,” Jackson said. “The toughest thing for me is there’s a number of kids in that locker room that were promised to play in a new building, and that never hap­pened.” 
From a technical standpoint, the state-of-the-art arena fea­tures a number of hockey-specif­ic amenities that should give the Irish every opportunity to excel on the ice. The arena will con­tain an additional Olympic-size rink, a recovery facility, a prac­tice shooting range and four sep­arate locker rooms. 
shot on goal. 
Senior Trevor Sipperly won 13 of his 15 faceoffs, allowing the Irish to dominate the time of possession battle. 
Notre Dame’s recent strug­gles have not been to a lack of heart, hustle or effort, accord­ing to Corrigan. 
“We’ve practiced pretty well for the last three weeks,” Corrigan said. “If we continue to do that, then I believe that’s going to show up on the field.” 
The win meant the end of a three-game losing streak that nearly knocked the Irish out of the running for an NCAA Tournament bid. Early on in the season, the Irish had climbed all the way to No. 3 in the polls. After the skid, they fell out of the rankings com­pletely. 
The change in the outcome Saturday was a certain boost to the confidence of the Irish. 
“We’re not used to losing three games in a row,” Corrigan said. “Winning cer­tainly beats the heck out of los­ing.” 
Now, the Irish have a fresh start and can try to make their way back into the rankings with their final two games against St. John’s and No. 3 Syracuse. 
“If we win those two games, we have a great argument for a spot in the NCAA Tournament,” Corrigan said. 
Notre Dame will go to St. John’s to begin their quest to boost their tournament résumé Saturday. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.du 
Additional weight training facilities will be expected to take pressure off the Guglielmino Complex. 
“The weight room will be specifically designed for the development of hockey players, although we are willing to see the baseball or the track team with the congestion that’s going on right now in the weight facili­ties with varsity sports,” Jackson said. 
The arena’s development is the third hockey facility con­struction Jackson has taken a part of. Jackson said he has played an active role in the design of the new arena, includ­ing the positioning of team benches on opposite ends of the rink. 
“It’s a closer trip to the penalty box for our bench, but really it’s about having better play conver­sations with the officials,” Jackson said. “It’s also a longer change for the opposing team on penalties, kind of an old school configuration.” 
While the focus of the arena’s construction is with the hockey program in mind, senior associ­ate athletics director Tom Nevala said the building’s creation offers several opportunities for the local community to get involved. 
“It really opens up the door for some events that otherwise couldn’t come to South Bend, Nevala said. “It’s the best long­term solution.” 
The Irish will need the contin­ued support of the community when they kick off the 2011-12 season in the new arena. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

belief in the program and bought into what we’re trying to do.” 
The Irish will hit the road for the last three games of their regular season, first tak­ing on Ohio State in a game with huge implications for an at -large bid for the NCAA tournament. 
“Ohio State’s going to be a battle. Anytime Notre Dame Ohio State get together in any­thing its going to be a tough fight,” Coyne said. “There are some big regular season games left to be played so we need to get it done.” 
The Buckeyes will take on the Irish on Thursday at 5 
p.m. in Columbus. 
Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 
Scioscia 
continued from page 24 
seven points on three goals and four assists. 
“I was really pleased with how Gina played,” Coyne said. “For her on her Senior Day to have a day like that it’s spe­cial.” 
Freshman Jenny Granger and junior Shaylyn Blaney each had three goals for the squad. Notre Dame’s quick start allowed Coyne to get everybody on the field for Senior Day. 
“Everyone being able to play on Senior Day is nice, you play for your teammates and hon­oring your seniors,” Coyne. “It was a nice tribute to them.” 
Notre Dame was able to out-shoot Cincinnati (4-8, 0-4) 31­10 in the match, with their relentless attack putting the game out of reach early. 
“I think that we need to start establishing momentum early, and that’s something we’ve been working on,” Coyne said. 
The game was a nice way to honor the three graduating seniors — Scioscia, defender Rachel Guerrera and midfield­er Maggie Zentgraf — who Coyne said were integral to building up the program to its current state. 
“They’ve been through a lot, we were building and building and since they’ve been on the team we’ve been nationally ranked every season,” Coyne said. “They maintained their We’re starting to get a better feel for the things we really need to hone down on going into this last week of prac­tice.” 

Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Defense 
continued from page 24 
a backwards pass from Crist to sophomore running back Cierre Wood and returned it for a touchdown, and Blanton returned an interception off early enrollee freshman quar­terback Tommy Rees. Kelly said he was as much pleased by the defensive scores as he was displeased by the offen­sive inconsistencies. 
“I think today our defense did a great job taking the ball away … We’re going and get­ting the football. We’re aggressively getting after it from that standpoint,” Kelly said. “Offensively, our issues are about inconsistency. We can put three or four plays together and then we’ll put two or three awful plays together.” 
Kelly said the purpose of the scrimmage was to evaluate as the spring season winds down. 
“This is still about evaluat­ing, finding out who can com­pete, the guys that we can count on,” he said. “More than anything else I think you need to know what your weakness­es are as well … That’s why we’re out here scrimmaging … 

Monday, April 19, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Monday, April 19, 2010 page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Getting defensive 
Defense shows progress in weekend scrimmage 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 

The Irish defense matched  
the offense score-for-score in  
a scrimmage Saturday.  
Both junior safety Jamoris  
Slaughter and junior corner­ 
back Robert Blanton returned  
turnovers for touchdowns,  
while the offense struggled to  
find the end zone in 11-on-11  
unless junior tight end Kyle  
Rudolph was making the play.  
Irish coach Brian Kelly held  
Rudolph, coming off of a sep­ 
arated shoulder last season,  
out of much of the scrimmage  
as a precaution.  
“We wanted to be cautious  
with Kyle still,” Kelly said.  
“We got him in there for a  
coup le one-o n -one routes  
where wanted to work. But  
other than that we kept him  
out of most of the scrimmag­ 
ing stuff.”  
Even in li mited time,  
Rudolph made the play of the day as he soared over sopho­more linebacker Manti Te’o  SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Junior center Braxston Cave prepares to snap the ball during an 11-on-11 scrimmage at practice Saturday. The defense forced turnovers and held the offense to just two scores in the scrimmage.  
for his first of two touchdown  
receptions from junior quar­ effusive in his praise of Te’o’s Te’o demonstrated some of In a dramatic shift from last  
terback Dayne Crist. If the  development. Kell y ’s points when he season’s defense, which only  
scrimmage had been tightly  “He’s got a chance and he’s stopped senior running back mana ged to for ce 19  
refereed, Te’o would assured- showing some signs of that,” Armando Allen from reaching turnovers in 12 games, the  
ly have been whistled for pass  Kelly said. “It’s exciting to t h e end zone in dram atic Irish forced three turnovers  
interference.  watch him grow. He’s really fashio n , stopping A llen’s Saturday. Slaughter picked up  
Despite the mistake on the  growi n g quickl y in a very momentum and sending him  
touchdown play, Kelly was  short period of time.” backwards a few steps. see DEFENSE/page 22  

BASEBALL 
NDsweeps Pirates for crucialwins 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Winning in baseball is a team effort, but senior David Mills came close to defying that standard Sunday. 
Mills did everything but pilot the plane to Seton Hall, as the left-handed reliever tossed one and two-thirds innings of scoreless relief and drove in the game-winning run Sunday as the Irish defeated Seton Hall 7-4 to secure a series sweep. 
“David Mills couldn’t have done more for us, pitching in all three games and had the winning two-out RBI,” Irish coach Dave Schrage said. “What we’ve asked that kid to do is amazing, and he’s really stepped up.” 
The conference victory push­es Notre Dame’s win streak to four, the longest of the season, and marks the first time the Irish (15-19, 5-7 Big East) have swept an opponent since the opening weekend against Mississippi Valley State. 
“We got ourselves behind the eight ball early with our out­of-conference season, but we kind of rededicated ourselves this week,” Schrage said. “We talked about the importance of 
see SWEEP/page 21 


HOCKEY 
New arena to boost program 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Recruiting, training and com­munity support — all three are fundamental to the success of an athletic program, and all three will receive a significant boost with the opening of the new Notre Dame ice arena. 
Following the announcement of the arena’s construction in February, the Office of the University Architect released the designs and plans for the Charles 
W. “Lefty” Smith Jr. Rink Friday. 
“I’ve said all along this is kind of the final piece to the puzzle for our program as far as creating long term stability for this pro­gram,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “Obviously it will be instru­mental to our recruiting, but 
see ARENA/page 22 

Graphic courtesy of Notre Dame Of.ce of Sports Information An artist’s rendering of the main entrance of Charles W. Smith Jr. Rink, scheduled to be completed for the 2011-2012 season. 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Notre Dame nets 15-5 victory on Senior Day 
By LUKE MANSOUR 
Sports Writer 

The No. 12 Irish continued their recent string of success with a dominating 15-5 win 
over Big East opponent Cincinnati. The win pushed the Irish winning streak to four games and left their Big East record at 5-1 with three regular season games remaining. 
Irish coach Tracy Coyne said she has seen steady improvement throughout the season and the team now appears to be peaking at the right time. 
“I just think that we’re tak­ing care of the ball in a lot of different ways, we continue to work on the little things,” Coyne said. “We just got off to a bit of a slow start and now it’s coming together.” 
Notre Dame scored on their first possession and never looked back, jumping out to a 9-0 lead in the first half. Celebrating Senior Day before a large home crowd at Arlotta Stadium, the Irish quickly dispensed any notion of a Bearcat upset. 
“I was happy with our intensity, we respected them as an opponent,” Coyne said. “I also thought we handled them well physically.” 
Senior attack Gina Scioscia had a perfect ending to a stellar career, recording 
see SCIOSCIA/page 22 






