the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Sophomore directed FFA 
Moya returns to ND after leading Future Farmers of America 

Photo courtesy of Paul Moya Sophomore Paul Moya spent a year as the national president of the National FFA, formerly the Future Farmers of America, traveling through the country to speak at student conventions. 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Most Notre Dame students spend the academic year on campus studying, attending athletic events and socializ­ing with their friends — unless the student is Paul Moya. 
The sophomore spent 2009 traveling across the country, speaking to thousands at leadership conferences and rubbing shoulders with gov­ernment officials and corpo­rate titans such as Bill Ford of Ford Motor Company. 
Moya, 22, took a leave of absence from the University to serve as the national president of the National FFA, the national organiza­tion formerly known as the Future Farmers of America. The National FFA is the largest student youth organ­ization with 507,000 mem­bers across the country. As national president, Moya directly represented over 500,000 individuals. 

“The FFA is a phenomenal youth leadership organiza­tion that does a great job at providing skills for stu ­dents,” Moya said. “As pres­ident, I was happy to have the opportunity to give back to the organization.” 
Moya said he first got involved with the FFA through the chapter at his high school in New Mexico. He became a dedicated member of the organization and deferred enrolling at Notre Dame for his fresh­men year in 2006 in order to serve as the president of the New Mexico FFA chapter. 
“I spent over 320 days traveling this past year,” he said. “The FFA has over 1,500 corporate sponsors and it’s the national officers’ job to go to the sponsors and show them how their contri­butions to the organization are changing students ’ 
see MOYA/page 6 



Director of Libraries to leave the University 
By JOSEPH MCMAHON 
Associate News Editor 
Director of Hesburgh Libraries Jennifer Younger will step down from her posi­tion at the end of the aca­demic year to take a new position with the Catholi c Re sea rch Resources Alli ance (CRRA), the University announced Monday. 

“We are Younger indebted to Jennifer for the vital role she has played in the many advances in the Hesburgh Libraries over the past 13 years,” Provost Tom Burish said in a University press release. “She has provided the leadership and made the strategic decisions that have enabled the Libraries to experience substantial growth and improvement.” 
Younger, who has held the position since 1997, was praised by Burish for advanc­ing access to electronic mate­rials, renovating the lower level of the Hesburgh Library and expanding the University’s collections. 
“Since 1997, it has been my great pleasure to have led the Hesburgh Libraries in a period of sustained growth and success, made possible by expanded University sup­port and the achievements of an outstanding library facul­ty and staff,” Younger said in a press release. “We have been inspired by the extraor­dinary vision of [University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh] 40 years ago in building a great library for Notre Dame.” 
Younger’s vocational change comes on the heels of a petition for Library reform that garnered 1,200 student signatures during the fall semester. The petition, which was organized by graduate student David Morris, called for an increase in the num­ber of collections and the Library faculty, as well as the renovation of the entire building. 
“It provides a fresh start, allowing us to find a scholar-librarian who will fully sup­port our mission and who will implement the strategic plan for the Library that is being drawn up by the Provost’s Office,” Morris said of the University’s search for a new Library director. 
Younger will take a new position in the CRRA, where she has represented Notre Dame. The CRAA is a collab­
orative effort between 11 member schools to help increased partnership and share electronic resources. 
“I am very pleased to con­tinue my involvement in this collaborative initiative to share resources with schol­ars in all fields interested in the Catholic experience, ” Younger said in the press release. “As a founding mem­
see DIRECTOR/page 6 



NDSP reports pair of sexual assaults 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) is investigating an assault reported early Sunday morning, according to an e-mail sent to the student body Tuesday. 
The e-mail said a student was walking near the area of Pasquerilla West, Pasquerilla East, Knott and Siegfried Halls when the suspect approached her from behind and pushed her against the tree. The victim said the suspect attempted to kiss her, but she broke free and returned to her dorm. 
The suspect was described as a male wearing a gray sweat­shirt with the hood pulled over his head and face and blue jeans. He was estimated to be about 6-foot-1 and 6-foot-5, the e-mail said. 
NDSP is also looking into a sexual assault that occurred in December, when a student reported being forcibly fondled by another student, the e-mail said. 
NDSP was recently made aware of the matter, which was not directly reported to NDSP. Anyone with information is asked to contact NDSP investi­gations section at 574-631­5555. 


Triathalon Club sparks interest 

By KRISTIN DURBIN 
News Writer 
Although its founders encountered a few obstacles throughout the club approval process, the Notre Dame Triathlon Club had a good year, said junior Karl Kingery, co-president of the newly formed club. 
Kingery, an experienced triathlete, and junior Brian Sheridan, co-president of the club, came up with the idea of creating a group dedicated to training for triathlons last year. 
“Brian approached me with the idea because he knew I had done triathlons in the past,” Kingery said. “I thought it was a great idea, so we went through all the hoops with the Student Activities Office and got it working.” 
During the process of gain­ing approval for the club, Kingery and Sheridan enlist­ed junior Kyle Nickodem to fill the position of club secre­tary. 
After garnering a sizable amount of student interest at Activities Night in the fall, the club officers said they were enthusiastic about the club’s first year. 
“About 130 people signed up at Activities Night, and a lot of people showed up at the first meeting, too,” Kingery said. “I think some people were turned off to the club because we can’t actual­ly compete for Notre Dame.” 
Kingery said he hopes the club can become a member 
of the Collegiate U.S. Association of Triathlons (CUSAT) within the next two or three years, which would allow club members to offi­cially compete as a team in triathlons. 
“RecSports requires that clubs be at tier three to com­pete against other schools,” Kingery said. “Since we’re not at tier three yet, we have to wait a few years before we can compete.” 
Despite its current non­competitive status, the Triathlon club holds four 
see CLUB/page 6 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Professor works on Hubble Telescope page 3  Women’s basketball defeats Vermont page 20  She & Him album review page 10  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 24, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Bracket business 

More than 4.7 million brackets were submitted on ESPN’s online March Madness Bracket Challenge, none of which are still perfect as the Sweet 16 field rounded out on Sunday night. 
At the top of the leader board, a man who I am quite convinced, more than likely, did not sit down and watch a single game of college basketball this entire season, is Molly Sammon 

J. Lorenz, or 

Sports
jlrnz5. His ESPN 

Production
profile wall is full of congratulatory Editor comments from people he has never met, offering plenty of praise, plenty of jealous remarks and a handful of comments that referred to him as God. Congratulations, J. Lorenz. Congratulations at being one of the following: really good at coin flip­ping, or really uninformed about men’s college basketball. 
I knew, and I assume many Notre Dame students knew as well, that it was going to be a long month of March as soon as Carleton Scott’s 3­point attempt at the buzzer was unsuccessful in the loss to Old Dominion. 
There is one person on record who has a perfect bracket so far: 17-year-old Alex Hermann, a high school senior from south Chicago who has been studying all season long and memorizing plenty of sta­tistics so he could correctly predict the first two rounds. Hermann is autistic with high performance lev­els in mathematics and memory. At the halfway point in the tourna­ment, he’s well on his way to the one in one trillion chance that he successfully formed a perfect brack­et. 
He was not fooled by the Kansas Jayhawks confidence. He did not lis­ten to all of the reporters who claimed the Big East would be tak­ing over the tournament, and he saw talent in Cornell, even though everyone knows not to count on the Ivy League in college basketball. 
Who did he award the coveted championship to? The Purdue Boilermakers, of course. A few weeks ago, I would have thought he could not have been more off, but after judging how the last two rounds went, I am reluctant to say that was a bad call on Hermann’s part. With Robbie Hummel injured and an overtime nail-biter to get them to the Sweet 16, the Boilers have a tough road ahead of them if they wish to still be playing in April. 
Aside from successfully selecting each winner thus far, Hermann has also accomplished something else I would never have guessed anyone could do. For my entire life, I’ve been a Notre Dame fan in Purdue territory, fiercely cheering against the Boilers. 
For the first time in my entire life, I’m pulling for the Boilermakers. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT  S THE WE RDEST  NJURY YOU’VE EVER HAD? 





Priscilla Nyankson  Bobby Reichle  Nick Genty  Chris Samuelson  Katie Ritter  
freshman  freshman  sophomore  freshman  freshman  
Ryan  Keenan  Duncan  O’Neill  McGlinn  
“I dislocated  “I cut my knee  “I dislocated  “I fractured my  “Osteitis Pubis.  
my shoulder  open and didn’t  and broke my  left hand by  You don’t even  
while arm  realize it until I  shoulder at the  getting into a  want to know  
wrestling.”  was almost up  same time.”  car accident by  what that is.”  
Devil’s Tower.”  running over a  

refrigerator.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Junior forward Devereaux Peters, front left, and senior center Erica Williamson, front right, lead Notre Dame’s celebration after the Irish beat Vermont in the second round of the NCAA Tournament Tuesday night at the Purcell Pavilion. The team will next head to Kansas City and the Women's NCAA Sweet 16. 



OFFBEAT 
Study shows food in the Last Supper grew over time 
Has even the Last Supper been supersized? 
The food in famous paint­ings of the meal has grown by biblical proportions over the last millennium, researchers report in a med­ical journal Tuesday. 
Using a computer, they compared the size of the food to the size of the heads in 52 paintings of Jesus Christ and his disciples at their final meal before his death. 
If art imitates life, we're in trouble, the researchers con­clude. The size of the main dish grew 69 percent; the size of the plate, 66 percent, and the bread, 23 percent, between the years 1000 and 2000. 
Supersizing is considered a modern phenomenon, but "what we see recently may be just a more noticeable part of a very long trend," said Brian Wansink, a food behavior scientist at Cornell University. 
Former inmate gets 15 years for trying to break into jail 
VIERA, Fla. — A Florida man has been sentenced to 15 years in prison for violat­ing his probation by trying to break into the Brevard County jail. 
A judged sentenced 25­year-old Sylvester Jiles of Cocoa on Monday. He was convicted in January of tres­passing on jail property and resisting an officer. 
Authorities say Jiles tried to climb a 12-foot fence at the Brevard County Detention Center in August. He was caught and hospitalized with severe cuts from the barbed wire. He had been released a week earlier after accepting a plea deal on a manslaugh­ter charge.ty theft," NYPD Deputy Commissioner Paul Browne told The Associated Press on Friday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Thursday Friday 




IN BRIEF 
Shakespeare at Notre Dame will present “Galileo” tonight at 8 p.m. at the Philbin Studio Theater in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The event is open to the public, and tickets are $10 for general admission, $8 for faculty, staff and seniors and $5 for all stu­dents. 
Penelope Crawford, a guest fortepianist, will be in concert on Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the Reyes Organ and Chorale Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The event is open to the public, and tickets are $13 for general admission, $10 for faculty, staff and seniors and $5 for stu­dents. 
The Hawai’i Club will host a Hawaiian Luau on Saturday at 6 p.m. in the Stepan Center. The event is open to the public, and tickets are on sale at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office. 
A lecture, “Ancient Slavery and 19th-Century Abolition,” will be held Thursday at 5 p.m., location to be deter­mined. The event is free and sponsored by the Ph.D. in Literature Program. 
John Mackey, the Chairman and CEO of Whole Foods Market, will speak as a part of the “Ten Years Hence Speaker Series,” on Friday from 10:40 
a.m. to 12:10 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium in Mendoza College of Business. The event is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Saturday Sunday 

Atlanta 73 / 48 Boston 51 / 35 Chicago 56 / 40 Denver 35 / 22 Houston 74 / 63 Los Angeles 71 / 50 Minneapolis 55 / 32 New York 58 / 41 Philadelphia 65 / 40 Phoenix 76 / 55 Seattle 79 / 58 St. Louis 68 / 48 Tampa 77 / 57 Washington 66 / 46 

Wednesday, March 24, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Physics professor participates in Hubble Telescope project 
By JILL STINCHCOMB 
News Writer 
Physics Professor Peter Garnavich is part of the largest Hubble Telescope project undertaken to date, allowing him to examine dis­tant galaxies and far-away supernovae. 
The telescope allows astronomers to gather data about galaxy evolution and cosmology as it can discern light that has traveled for bil­lions of years across the uni­verse. 
“This is a huge project by NASA to get the maximum information possible since the Hubble was repaired last May,” Garnavich said. 
He said the telescope repairs improved the infrared camera on the Hubble telescope, giving it a larger viewing field as well as better camera quality. This allows the camera to see much further than it previ­ously could. 
The project will look at more than 250,000 distant galaxies. 
Garnavich said the project will maximize time on the telescope by looking at the sky above the ecliptic poles, ensuring neither the sun nor the earth interferes or blocks the sky during the allotted time. 
The application for time on the Hubble telescope is very competitive, Garnavich said. 
“Only one in every 10 pro­posals are accepted,” he said. 
The more orbits a proposal requires, the less likely it is to be accepted, he said. Any project requiring more than 100 orbits is much less likely to be accepted. 
Even though the group requested 902 orbits, its pro­posal was approved because the project is a part of the Multi Cycle Treasury pro ­gram, spreading the project over multiple years. 
The length of the project is also significant because it will look at pictures from the same spot in the earth’s orbit from year to year and com­pare differences. 
The team will look for sev­eral significant changes, including supernovae and the accretion of mass into the black holes at the center of galaxies. 
“With this project, we will be looking at the most distant supernovae and galaxies ever seen,” Garnavich said. 
Contact Jill Stinchcomb at jstinchc@nd.edu 





Lecture discusses ‘occasions of grace’ 

By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
With some Catholics in a state of “disenchantment and disillu­sionment,” scholar Colleen Mary Mallon said Catholicism is cur­rently at a crossroads. 
Mallon spoke to members of the Saint Mary’s College commu­nity Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall. Mallon is assistant profes­sor of Theology at the Aquinas Institute of Theology in St. Louis. 
Her lecture, “Near Occasions of Grace: The Gift and Task of Thinking Catholic,” discussed several components of Catholicism including Catholic theological tradition as well as intellectual distinction. 
In order to remain faithful in this time of uncertainty, Mallon said Catholics must live respon­sibly and creatively. 
“The life of the mind is a place where grace happens and that the wholeness of grace, the gift of God’s own life for nothing but love comes to us as an integral, embodied and critical intelli­gence,” she said. “That is, the livingness of divine love is a gift that animates our choices even as these choices are fully our own, our path.” 
According to Mallon, beliefs can be seen through actions. 


Actions, she said, allow one to understand more deeply what it is he or she believes. 
“If you want to know what I really think and believe, watch what I do,” Mallon said. 
Mallon relayed an account she once had with a student who had recently lost some friends in a terrorist attack in her home­land of Iraq. Mallon said although this student was strug­gling, she was able to come to and understanding of the situa­tion because of grace. 
“I watched how the act of struggling to make meaning is a holy practice, where grace meets us and helps us to stretch to lim­its we cannot obtain without the accompaniment of the sacred spirit of God,” Mallon said. 
Mallon also discussed global­ization and its effect on the Catholic faith. She spoke about four theological global flows attached to globalization. These flows are the theology of libera­tion, feminism, ecology and human rights. 
“The sinking of these global theological flows through the local water table into the roots of our social lives has met with both reception and resistance,” she said. “While some have experienced these … as rivers in dry land, others have experi­enced these as contaminated waters.” 
During her lecture, Mallon asked the audience to partici­pate in a discussion. She told the audience to consider two groups of scientists. The first group gathers around a telescope and is scanning the night sky, search­ing for something. The second group is gathered around a crater. She asked the audience to discuss which of the groups of scientists were more like Christians. 
After a short discussion, she explained that the group of sci­entists that best approaches the Christian search for God was the group who was studying the crater. 
“Christian faith does not pri­marily concern the human search for God but is ultimately a human answer to God in search of human beings,” she said. 
Mallon said Catholics have an important task that must be faced. 
“This is our task: The work of bringing what we say and believe as Roman Catholics into congruency and alignment with how we actually behave,” Mallon said. 

Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 24, 2010 



Border Angels founder draws large audience 
By CAROLYNN SMITH 
News Writer 
A large crowd gathered to hear Enrique Morones, activist and founder of the non-profit organiza­tion Border Angels, examine human rights Tuesday at Vander Vennet Theatre at Saint Mary’s. 
Morones discussed immigration reform and legal options for future immigrant workers. He looked at border control in the United States and talked about the history of Border Angels, a non-profit organ­ization that supports humane treatment of immigrants and Operation Gate Keeper, a border security operation established in 1994. 
“Operation Gate Keeper built a wall between the United States and Mexico, and that wall has led to the death of thousands of peo­ple,” Morones said. “There have been 10,000 people who have died since Operation Gate Keeper.” 
Border Angels was founded in 1986. The organization consists of volunteers who seek to stop unnec­essary deaths of individuals travel­ing through areas located near the United States and Mexican border. 
Morones told stories of people who tried to cross the border but were unsuccessful because of this wall and other conditions. He said we do not hear about these deaths in the media. 
“We can all name who replaced Paula Abdul on American Idol and 


COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Council approves new Student Union Board 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Council of Representatives (COR) discussed the four resolu­tions passed in the March 18 Student Senate meeting and approved new Student Union Board leaders at its meeting Tuesday night. 
The resolutions passed by Senate include a nomination of two student representatives to the Rector Approval Committee for Residence Halls and resolutions regarding diversity on campus, non-monetary aid to Haiti and seating arrangements for stu­dents at home football games. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt highlighted the resolu­tion involving diversity on cam­pus. The resolution called for an examination of resources given to Multicultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS). 
“We want more resources given to MSPS so that it can better fulfill its mission,” Schmidt said. 
Schmidt said the issue is impor­tant because many individuals often find the support given to minority students on campus “frustrating.” 
Schmidt said Senate had anoth­er “very important request” for the University that involved the ongoing crisis in Haiti. 
Student government chief of staff Ryan Brellenthin said Senate proposed options for providing alternative versions of aid to Haiti, in addition to sending money. 
“We’re looking at potentially enrolling some displaced Haiti college students here at Notre Dame in fall 2010,” Brellenthin said. 
Schmidt also discussed the addition of five new leaders to the Student Union Board (SUB). 
Sophomore Norbert Hootsmans and junior Marie Wicht were both unanimously approved by COR to serve as co-directors of program­ming for SUB. 
“I really want to incorporate SUB with other parts of the University,” Hootsmans said. “This collaboration will help because every year we look at what isn’t here and we create new events.” 
“SUB helps people to grow in community and not just as stu­dents,” Wicht said. “I want to make SUB more appealing and more accessible for the student body.” 
Juniors Mackenzie Keller, Patrick Sturm and Patrick Berry were also approved by COR for director of publicity, director of finance and director of operations for SUB, respectively. 
Schmidt then discussed the potential student government involvement in a baseball game between the South Bend SilverHawks and the Notre Dame baseball team, which will take place at Stanley Coveleski Memorial Stadium April 5. 
“For the last three years, our Notre Dame team has played the South Bend minor league team and I want to know how COR thinks we can support this,” Schmidt said. 
In response, members decided student government will purchase about 200 tickets to give away to students and provide a shuttle bus to the stadium. The tickets will be provided on a first-come­first-serve basis. For students who do not receive a ticket from student government, tickets can be purchased at the stadium for $4. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
who won the gold medal and who won the Academy Award, but none of you can name any of these people who have died,” Morones said. 
A high percentage of deaths resulted from extreme heat and cold weather conditions, Morones said. Some were also due to racial discrimination crimes, he said. 
Morones discussed the Minutemen, a group of citizens who see themselves as protecting this country from illegal immigra­tion, but Morones said they are a racist group that has committed hate crimes for years. 
“Racist groups are very danger­ous and these people have taken an issue with immigration. It is troubling,” Morones said. 
Border Angels has worked hard to stop the hate crimes committed by the Minutemen and other racist groups, Morones said. 
“When the Minutemen came to California in July of 2005, we planned actions against them to shut them down and we were suc­cessful,” Morones said. “We try to be an example with Border Angels.” 
Morones said he believes the United States needs immigration reform in order to provide more legal options for future immi­grants. 
“If you are passionate about an issue, you need to do something about it. Ordinary people can do amazing things,” Morones said. “I would like the wall to come down, and it will come down in my life­time. We want a pathway to legal­ization.” 

Contact Carolynn Smith at csmith02@nd.edu 







World & Nation 
Wednesday, March 24, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Police sent to control drug traffickers 
CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico — Jet planes loaded with 450 federal police officers arrived in this city, known as Mexico’s murder capital, on Tuesday to bolster a federal force struggling to control violent drug traffickers. 
The law-enforcement surge boosts the num­ber of federal agents in Ciudad Juarez to 3,500 and comes on the same day U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and top-level security officials met with Mexico’s leaders and pledged to help tackle the problem. 
More than 2,600 people were killed last year in Ciudad Juarez, a city of 1.3 million across the border from El Paso, Texas. At least 500 people have died this year. 

Britain to launch space agency 
LONDON — Britain’s first space agency will begin operating next month in an effort to coor­dinate U.K. space activities while raising the country’s profile in the global space economy, officials said Tuesday. 
With an initial operating budget of 230 million pounds ($346 million) — modest compared with NASA’s yearly $19 billion — the government said the new UK Space Agency would neverthe­less create tens of thousands of jobs while devel­oping a recession-defying industry that up to now has received little attention. 
The country’s 6 billion pound ($9 billion) space industry “is one of Britain’s real success stories,” Business Secretary Peter Mandelson said. “Year-on-year it provides more jobs both directly and indirectly to the U.K. work force.” 


NATIONAL NEWS 

Miss. judge won’t force school prom 
JACKSON — A Mississippi school district vio­lated a lesbian student’s rights by banning her from bringing her girlfriend to the prom, a fed­eral judge ruled Tuesday, but he stopped short of forcing the district to hold the event. 
U.S. District Judge Glen H. Davidson denied an American Civil Liberties Union request for a pre­liminary injunction that would have forced the Itawamba County school district to sponsor the April 2 prom and allow Constance McMillen to escort her girlfriend and wear a tuxedo. 
Davidson did say he will hold a trial on the issue later, but he did not set a date and any rul­ing would likely come too late to force the dis­trict to hold the prom when it was originally scheduled. 
Davidson’s order says the district violated McMillen’s constitutional rights by denying her request to bring her girlfriend and wear a tuxe­do, and ACLU Mississippi legal director Kristy Bennett called that a victory. 

Tattoo indicates possible hate crime 
RIVERHEAD, N.Y. — A teenager accused of murder in the hate crime stabbing of an Ecuadorean immigrant had tattoos depicting a swastika and a symbol he said represented “white power,” witnesses testified Tuesday. 
The defendant, Jeffrey Conroy, was watch­ing the HBO prison drama “Oz” in April 2008 when he decided it would be cool to get tattoos, said Keith Brunjes, who described himself as Conroy’s best friend. Over the course of several weeks, Brunjes applied a star tattoo to one of Conroy’s arms, a light­ning bolt on the other arm and the swastika on the outside of his upper right thigh. 


LOCAL NEWS 

Search continues for Purdue student 
FISHERS, Ind. — Police used helicop­ters and divers in searching a suburban Indianapolis area for a missing 19-year­old Purdue University freshman. 
Fishers police say the last cell phone activity from Patrick Trainor of Indianapolis occurred about 1:30 a.m. Sunday near Geist Reservoir after he left a home nearby. 
Divers on Tuesday searched a reten­tion pond while an Indiana State Police helicopter searched remote areas around the reservoir, but found no sign of him. 



White House responds to suits 
Multiple state attorney generals allege health care overhaul is unconstitutional 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE — The White House says it isn’t wor­ried that 13 state attorneys general are suing to overturn the massive health care over­haul, and many legal experts agree the effort is futile. 
But the lawsuit, filed in fed­eral court seven minutes after President Barack Obama signed the 10-year, $938 billion health care bill, underscores the divisiveness of the issue and the political rancor that has surrounded it. 
Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum led the effort to file the suit that claims Congress doesn’t have the constitutional right to force people to get health coverage. It also says the federal gov­ernment is violating the Constitution by forcing a mandate on the states with­out providing resources to pay for it. 
“To that I say, ‘Bring it on,’” said White House domestic policy chief Melody Barnes, who cited similar suits filed over Social Security and the Voting Rights Act when those were passed. “If you want to look in the face of a parent whose child now has health care insurance and say we’re repealing that ... go right ahead.” 
McCollum, a Republican running for governor, has been talking about suing to overturn the bill since December. This month he invited other attorneys gener­al to join him. So far South Carolina, Nebraska, Texas, Michigan, Utah, Pennsylvania, Alabama, South Dakota, Idaho, Washington, Colorado and Louisiana have agreed. 
All the attorneys general are Republican except James “Buddy” Caldwell of Louisiana, a Democrat, who said he signed on because Republican Gov. Bobby Jindal asked him to and he felt the effort had merit. 
The lawsuit, filed in Pensacola, asks a judge to declare the bill unconstitu­tional because “the Constitution nowhere author-izes the United States to man­date, either directly or under threat of penalty, that all citi­zens and legal residents have qualifying health care cover­age.” 

Robert Sedler, a constitu­tional law professor at Wayne State University in Detroit, said the effort isn’t going any­where. 
“This is pure, pure political posturing and they have to know it,” he said. 
But South Dakota Attorney General Marty Jackley dis­puted that characterization, saying his state will have to cut education and other pro­grams to make up for increased Medicaid costs under the overhaul. 
“This isn’t about attorneys general trying to break into the realm of telling what needs to happen with health care reform,” he said. “This is attorneys general saying you went too far with unfunded federal mandates. You exceeded your power under the Constitution.” 
Not so, said Bruce Jacob, a constitutional law professor at Stetson University in Florida, who said the suit seems like a political ploy and is unlikely to succeed. 
“The federal government certainly can compel people to pay taxes, can compel peo­ple to join the Army,” he said. 
Some states are consider­ing separate lawsuits — Virginia filed its own Tuesday 
— and others, including Missouri, may join the multi-state suit. Still others are looking at other ways to avoid participating, like passing leg­islation to block requirements in the bill. 
McCollum predicted his suit would eventually end up before the U.S. Supreme Court. 
The health care bill “is not lawful,” he said. “It may have passed Congress, but there are three branches of govern­ment.” 
The lawsuit claims the health care bill violates the 10th Amendment, which says the federal government has no authority beyond the pow­ers granted to it under the Constitution, by forcing the states to carry out its provi­sions but not reimbursing them for the costs. 
Washington Gov. Chris Gregoire, a Democrat, said she strongly disagrees with Attorney General Rob McKenna’s decision to sue, calling the lawsuit an effort to “gut the bill.” 

CHINA 



Government thwarts censorship detour 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Google’s attempted detour around China’s Internet censorship rules was met with countermeasures Tuesday by the communist government, which blocked people on the mainland from seeing search results dealing with such forbidden topics as the pro-democracy movement. 
China’s maneuver, as well as its public rebuke of Google’s decision to stop censoring searches for the gov­ernment, rattled some of the compa­ny’s investors, advertisers and users. 
The chief concern is whether Google poisoned its business in one of the world’s most promising Internet markets. One analyst critical of Google’s move predicted the maneu­ver will cause the company’s stock to fall by as much as $50 — or about 10 percent — in the coming weeks. 
The stock fell $8.50, or 1.5 percent, to $549 Tuesday. 
Last month, Google said it no longer felt comfortable complying with the country’s demands that it censor Web content deemed objectionable by the communist rulers. On Monday, Google began sending Web searchers in mainland China from the China-based Google.cn to Google.com.hk, based in Hong Kong. The former British colony has an open Internet, and Google is not legally required to censor results there. 
But that end-run doesn’t prevent China’s government from using its Internet filters — known as the Great Firewall — to block some search results and Web sites from being seen in the mainland. 
On Tuesday, a search request from within mainland China about the 1989 Tiananmen democracy protests returned a notice that the “page can­not be displayed.” It also caused the Web browser to disconnect for several seconds. Under the old google.cn, a similar query usually returned a list of sanitized sites about Tiananmen Square. 


page 6 
The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 24, 2010 



Club 
continued from page 1 
one-hour practices a week, with each practice focusing 
on a different triathlon event. Each club officer also unofficially leads a different aspect of practice based on their athletic specialties. 

interested in triathlons to find out more about the club. 
“If people are trying to get in shape for summer triathlons, join the club,” Saucedo said. “If you haven’t done one or are just inter­ested, come to practices, too.” 
In addition to functioning as a triathlon-training 
“I lead the 

“Our main goal
swim prac ­

is competing, even
tices because I swam here if it is hard to fnd freshman 
triathalons 
year,” Kingery 

happening right
said. “Brian and Kyle are now.” big runners, so they lead 
Karl Kingery 
those prac -

Triathalon Club president 
tices.” said Kingery. 
Kingery also said the current treasurer, freshman Tyler Saucedo, specializes in virtually every­thing involved in the club’s practices. 
Kingery said the club has attracted students from vast­ly different skill levels, from students who have never done a triathlon to people who have completed Ironman equivalent competi­tions. 
Saucedo said he agreed, and said anyone who is 


Director 
continued from page 1 
ber of the CRRA, Notre Dame has played a key role in cre­ating global access to the vast array of materials held by Catholic institutions in North America.” 
CRRA board member group, the club members participate in the biathlon held each fall on campus and hope to host a biathlon on campus next spring, providing SAO approves the club’s budget, 

The club is currently selling shirts for $15 as a fundraiser for the group. 
Kingery said he hopes to find a triathlon for students to compete in individually sometime in April. 
“Our main goal is compet­ing, even if it is hard to find triathlons happening now,” Kingery said. “But I have high hopes for next year.” 
Contact Kristin Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 

Artemis Kirk, who is the uni­versity librarian at Georgetown, said the CRRA was fortunate. Younger would be able to devote more of her time to the organiza­tion. 
“Jennifer has been the driv­ing force behind the creation 
of the Catholic Research Resources Alliance, and all of its members are indebted to 



Moya 
continued from page 1 

lives.” 
Moya was in Washington for President Barack Obama’s inaugurationlast January and even spoke at a ball the night before. He and his fellow offi­cers spent their days in the nation’s capital in meetings with officials including the secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture and the secretary of the United States Department of Education. 
“It wasn’t just a handshake and go,” Moya said. “How else would a 21 -year-old walk in to the U.S. Department of Education and carry on an hour-long meet­ing?” 
The mission of the National FFA is to provide leadership 
opportunities to students. Moya frequently delivered motivational speeches at stu­dent conferences across the nation. 
“Throughout the year, we had to go through a huge amount of training to deliver those speeches,” he said. “We had motivational speakers and business leaders teach us how to deliver an effective speech.” 
her for her leadership,” Kirk said. “We’re delighted that she can devote even more of her energy and expertise to strengthening the alliance, and we appreciate Notre Dame ’s commitment in understanding the impor ­tance of the CRRA.” 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
Moya said there were times when he would realize the pressures of his position. 
“There were times when I was about to give a 25 minute address to 20,000 students that I would need to be pinched,” he said. “There was an incredible amount of pressure but there was also incredible opportunity to inspire the next generation of leaders.” 
Moya said the responsibility he felt to these students is what motivated him on a daily basis. 
“I kept going knowing that everyday was an opportunity to impact the world a little bit,” he said. 
All of Moya’s training paid off. In addition to continuing his speaking endeavors, he was invited to and spoke at leadership conference for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation last year. 
After retiring from his posi­tion as national president in October, Moya said returning to student life at Notre Dame in January was slightly sur­real. 
“It’s definitely interesting to be in one place for more than three days at a time,” Moya said. “I’m a business major and doing all these things in the business world this past year has added more rele­vance to the classroom.” 
Moya is pursuing a degree in finance from the Mendoza College of Business and plans to graduate in 2012. Until then, he said he has no plans to leave Notre Dame for extended periods of time, except when he has motiva­tional speaking engagements. 
“I’m taking a step back from the corporate side and am going to do more service oriented projects,” he said. “I feel blessed. I want to go serve in communities that really need it.” 
Overall, Moya said his year as national president was a 
once -in -a-lifetime experi ­ence, which changed the way he views the world. 
“This past year has been a whirlwind in so many ways and I transformed so much,” Moya said. “I grew more in one year than I have grown in the last five.” 


Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 


The Observer 





Business

Wednesday, March 24, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 



IN BRIEF 

Bailed-out execs to face pay cuts 
WASHINGTON — The top earners at five big companies still living on federal bailout money will take a 15 percent pay cut this year, the Obama administration’s pay czar says — yet many will still make millions. 
Kenneth Feinberg also said cash salaries would be capped at $500,000 this year for the vast majority of the top executives at the five compa­nies. Any further compensation has to be in stock. 
Still, he said, 69 of the 119 executives covered by the restrictions will take home pay packages worth more than $1 million. 
The announcements Tuesday were the adminis­tration’s latest effort to deal with outrage over lucrative pay provided to executives of bailed-out companies while the public struggles with stag­nant wages and high unemployment. 
Taxpayers can still expect to lose tens of billions on the rescues of the five companies: American International Group, GMAC Financial Services, Chrysler Financial, Chrysler and General Motors. 
Feinberg said his review refuted companies’ complaints that pay restrictions would drive away top talent. Inside the five companies, 84 percent of the top executives covered by last year’s pay limits have stayed put, he said. 
“These statistics undercut the argument that if you don’t pay more, people will leave,” Feinberg said. “They are not leaving.” 

Interest rates rise in bond market 
NEW YORK — Interest rates rose in the bond market Tuesday following lackluster demand at a government auction of two-year notes. 
The weak showing for the $44 billion sale is raising concerns that demand will falter for government debt. That would hurt prices and drive up yields, which move in opposite direc­tions. 
If fewer investors seek Treasurys, the gov­ernment will be forced to pay higher interest rates to attract buyers. Most recent auctions have been strong, however. 
The auction’s bid-to-cover ratio, which is a measure of demand, was 3 percent. That was below the 3.33 seen at an auction last month and the 3.13 ratio at an auction in January. 
The yield on the two-year note that matures in February 2012 rose to 0.99 percent in late trading from 0.98 percent Monday. Its price fell less than 1/32 to 99 25/32. 



Dow reaches two-week high 
Even after lackluster reports on housing market, stocks continue to rise 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Investors are starting to believe that the stock market is on the verge of another big rally. 
The Dow Jones industri­als rose almost 103 points Tuesday, their biggest gain in more than two weeks. The day’s economic news was tepid as the National Association of Realtors reported a drop in homes sales last month that was­n’t as steep as forecast. But analysts said many investors, after seeing the Dow at new highs for 2010, were afraid of miss­ing out on further gains. 
The report on housing was typical of recent eco­nomic numbers that have been somewhat better than expected but that still point to a weak economy. Sales of previously occupied homes fell 0.6 percent last month to an annual rate of 
5.02 million. The drop was less than expected. 
For now, the sales num­bers aren’t hurting hopes that the economy can recover even if the housing market is still sluggish. The Commerce Department is expected to report new home sales for February on Wednesday. A month ago, investors shrugged off an 11.2 per-brokerage Mogavero, Lee points, or 1.4 percent, in House lawmakers on cent drop in that reading. & Co. in New York. She two days. Sunday approved a health 
The market’s continuing said investors are opti-The Standard & Poor’s care overhaul bill that will advance has been welcome mistic about the health of 500 index rose 8.36, or 0.7 extend health insurance to but analysts are divided corporate earnings for the percent, to 1,174.17. It 32 million Americans. over whether stocks have January-March quarter. also stands at an 18-month Drug and hospital compa­run too far or if they have “Things seem to be mov-high. nies rose in part because more to gain because of ing along in the right The Nasdaq composite of the prospect of improvements in the econ-direction. So to that end I index rose 19.84, or 0.8 increased demand. omy. The recent gains have think people are feeling percent, to 2,415.24, a 19-Joe Saluzzi, co-head of been mild in contrast to better.” month high. equity trading at Themis those of 2010 when triple-But Mogavero is cautious The rise in stocks sent Trading LLC, said the mar-digit gains in the Dow were because the advance has bond prices lower and ket has continued higher frequent as the index come on light trading vol-yields higher. The yield on because traders are plac­soared higher from a 12-ume, which signals that the benchmark 10-year ing short-term bets, not year low. not many investors are Treasury note rose to 3.69 because they believe stock 
Even many traders who willing to put money into percent from 3.66 percent prices are too low. That have doubts about how the market. late Monday. makes the advance difficult solid the advance is, expect The Dow rose 102.94, or The dollar rose against to justify, he said. it to continue until some-1 percent, to 10,888.83, its most other major curren-“Look at the daily charts. thing pops the optimistic biggest point and percent-cies. Gold rose. They just grind higher. We mood. age gain since March 5. Crude oil rose 31 cents to call it the sausage factory. 
“You can’t deny the The Dow has risen 10 of $81.91 per barrel on the At the end of the day it trend. Definitely the trend the past 11 days and is at New York Mercantile tastes great but nobody is higher,” said Doreen its highest level since Sept. Exchange. knows how it’s made,” Mogavero, president of 26, 2008. It has risen 147 Stocks rose Monday after Saluzzi said. 



Court lifts media ownership restrictions 
Associated Press gears up for its next congressionally said he had gone too far and from 
mandated review of its media owner-media companies that said he had not 
WASHINGTON — A federal court has ship rules. Those rules, which the gone far enough. at least temporarily lifted government agency must review every four years, The Third Circuit sent the matter rules that blocked media companies include the cross-ownership ban and back to FCC, telling it to rewrite the from owning a newspaper and a broad-limits on the number of television and rules. And that led Powell’s successor, cast TV station in the same market. radio stations that one company can Martin, to try to ease the cross-owner-
The decision Tuesday by the U.S. own in a market. ship ban in big media markets — draw-Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit In the meantime, some media compa-ing more legal challenges from both lifts the Federal Communications nies already own newspapers and tele-sides. Commission’s “cross-ownership” ban. vision stations in the same market The court, however, held off on decid-
That restriction had remained in because they were grandfathered in ing those cases because the agency had effect under a stay issued by the court when the rules were first put into place said it wanted to reconsider Martin’s in 2003 as it has tried to sort out legal in 1974. actions. Yet the FCC has made no challenges to attempts by two previous The current court case began when progress on that front and has instead FCC chairmen, Republicans Michael Powell tried to lift the cross-ownership punted the issue to the upcoming Powell and Kevin Martin, to relax the ban in large media markets and raise review of the media ownership rules. rules. the caps on TV and radio station own-Tuesday’s court decision allows 
The decision comes as the current ership. That effort drew legal chal-Martin’s relaxed rules on media owner-FCC, now under Democratic control, lenges from public interest groups that ship to take effect. 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 

page 8 Wednesday, March 24, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Michael Bryan Megan Doyle Matt Robison John Cameron Kevin Baldwin 

Graphics Scene 
Blair Chemidlin Caitlin Ferraro 

Viewpoint 
Patricia Fernandez 


Scholarship on sexual orientation 
At the recent “Beyond Fruits and Vegetables” forum, students complained that Notre Dame’s professors teach almost nothing about sexual orientation. 
We agree. We think it’s time for the fac­ulty — in their capacity as experts 
Gail Bederman 
and educators — to join Notre Dame’s ongoing Guest conversation about Columnist LGBTQ issues. Student govern­ment and the Office of Student Affairs — especially Core Council and the Gender Relations Center — are already doing great things in these areas. Why should Notre Dame’s professors lag behind? 
Informed political and ethical judg­ments require solid and up-to-date knowl­edge. Professors are the best possible sources about cutting edge academic research — in this, as in other areas. In fact, isn’t that why universities employ professors in the first place? 
That’s where this column comes in. For the rest of this semester, a different Notre Dame professor each week will write a column about sexual orientation using the most up-to-date research in her or his discipline. Each column will provide an entertaining but up-to-date introduction to one important area of scholarship. 
These columns will not be venues for professors to air their personal opinions about politics, ethics or anything else! Rather, columnists will write as profes­sional experts about the scholarship on sexuality and sexual identity in their own disciplines. 
As a taste of what’s to come, here are some topics currently being researched in the humanities and social sciences. 
Anthropology: Anthropologists are working on ethnographies of gender iden­tity and development across cultures, the role and status of homosexuality in mod­ern times, the historical and the archeo­logical records and a broader under­standing of the ways in which humans express their sexuality. Recently anthro­pologists are interfacing with physiologi­cal and neurological studies in creating transdisciplinary approaches to under­standing human sexual behavior and identity. 
Film Studies: This discipline: 
• 
looks at the work of GLBT filmmak­ers and at representations of GLBT peo­ple; 

• considers GLBT reception of films; 

• 
analyzes the queerness of dominant culture and dominant reception; 


Rather than a marginal area of study, queer studies is a methodology and approach that film scholars bring to bear on a wide range of film practices. 
History: Historians research the lives, identities and attitudes towards LGBTQ people, from ancient Greece and Rome through the 20th century, in Europe, the Americas, Australia, Asia and Africa. The behavior, gender identities or sexual ori­entations we now label “bisexual, lesbian, gay, transgender or intersex” have existed throughout time, and in nearly all soci­eties. Yet, scholars continually discover how variable attitudes towards same-sex loves and transgender identities have been, from outright encouragement to fierce suppression. Nor have these atti­tudes or practices necessarily “liberal­ized” as societies grew more “modern.” 
Political Science: Topics from the social science branch include: 
• 
Attitudes toward gay people and gay rights; 

• 
Attitudes, actions, and impact of GLBT individuals — as citizens, voters, candidates, office-holders; 

• 
Legislative or judicial policy-making on gay rights; 

• 
LGBT political movements, interest groups, communities; 

• 
Intersectionality (the related impact of race, sex and sexual orientation on atti­tudes, voters, politicians); 


• The so-called “culture wars.” 
As usual in political science, most research considers gays and gay rights not only as important topics with unique dynamics, but also as cases. E.g., scholars analyze the gay rights movement as one example of a political movement, applying and testing the same theories about origi­nation and impact used to analyze other political movements. 
Psychology: Current research on LGBT-related issues ranges from neuroscience to clinical. Some examples: 
• 
The genetic basis for non-straight sexual orientations; 

• 
Brain differences in people of differ­ent sexual orientations and gender identi­ties; 

• 
Same-sex sexual and pair-bonding behavior in other animal species; 

• 
How factors from homophobia to extended family affect children with gay or lesbian parents; 

• Gay and lesbian teenagers; 

• 
How to help gay and lesbian couples improve their relationships. 

Sociologists study sex in relation to soci­ety, including: 

• 
How sexual orientations are under­stood in Western as well as non-Western cultures; 

• 
The relationships between gender and sexuality; 

• 
Social influences on the development of sexual identities; 

• Gay men and lesbians in families; 

• 
The political dynamics of organizing gay rights movements around the world, including how these movements influence public opinion, policy, society, culture, and the construction of gay identity. 


Spanish Film and Literature: Current scholarship analyzes the place of homo­sexuality in Spain, particularly since General Francisco Franco’s fascist regime fell in 1975. Some of the most innovative work focuses on authors and film direc­tors like Garcia Lorca, Luis Cernuda and Pedro Almodóvar. 
Do Notre Dame faculty specialize in all of these areas? Hardly. Should a Notre Dame education therefore omit the latest research on sexual orientation? We don’t think so! 
With thanks to the many faculty mem­bers who shared information about their disciplines. 
Gail Bederman is associate professor of history, American Studies and Gender Studies at Notre Dame. Bederman can be reached at gbederma@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
How is your NCAA Tournament bracket doing? 
Northern Iowa killed it I'm hanging in there Very well — I know how to pick ‘em I might as well throw it away I didn't fill out a bracket 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A college degree is not a sign thatone is a finished product but anindication a person is prepared forlife.” 
Fr. Edward A. “Monk” MalloyPresident Emeritus of Notre Dame 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 

Wednesday, March 24, 2010 page 9 
The party line 

Last Sunday, historic health care leg­islation passed in the House of Representatives and was sent to President Obama’s desk. As the final votes came in, the tally was a clearly partisan 219 -213, without a single Republican voting for the bill. As a person­al supporter of health care, I was elated at its immi­nent passage, but not without some sense of concern with the 

Jason Coleman
way it had to be cod­dled through the Senate and House Man at Large with partisan recon­ciliation and party line votes the only viable political conclusion for success. After all, Medicare and Social Security were both passed with at least some bi-partisan support and were much larger pieces of “social engineering” than the current bill represents. 
The idea of reconciliation itself is not as troubling to me, as it provides sub­stantive protection on crucial budget­ary, deficit and debt issues from the filibuster, a procedure that has seen increased use by both parties over the last 20 years. In the same way that both parties have increased its obstructionist use of the filibuster, both parties have used the reconcilia­tion for their own ends as well. Republicans, especially those decrying reconciliation as the “nuclear option” are especially motivated to play down their own use of reconciliation in pass­ing tax cuts in both 2001 and 2003 that increased both the deficit and debt substantially. 
What is concerning, however, is the way in which reconciliation had to be used for measures on a bill which by all means is quite moderate (the Blue-dogs took care of that), includes increases in payments to primary care 
physicians (a suggestion by Chuck Grassley, the Republican senator from Iowa) and, in its final form, looks very similar to the program which Mitt Romney passed in Massachusetts. 
How is it that no serious effort was made early on by the Republican Party to meet half or even a quarter of the way in the debate on reform? How is it that bi-partisanship seemed to die so quickly under the weight of the media and special interests? There are at least three big pieces to this puzzle. First, the mentality of the senate and congress has shifted substantially in the last two decades. Sen. Evan Bayh, the Democrat from Indiana, in his open letter detailing his choice to retire at the end of this current term, spends a great deal of time discussing the newfound lack of congeniality in the Senate and between caucuses. At 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

There is no excuse 
Last week I witnessed first­hand the ignorance, bigotry, and cowardice that persists on this campus. My disappointing experience can be summarized as follows. 
I was walking with a friend, who happens to be gay, to an off-campus location to enjoy ourselves on St. Patrick’s Day. My friend was wearing a festive outfit which some might consid­er “flamboyant.” A group of Notre Dame students approached us and as they passed, one of them muttered, “Faggot.” Not one of his bud­dies spoke up against him. My friend tried not to show a reac­tion, but it soon became clear that this exchange had ruined his night. He opted to return back to his room rather than put himself in a situation where he could become a target of fur­ther disparagement. 
In the two and a half years I have been at Notre Dame, not once have I witnessed such an overt display of hatred. It seemed to me that throughout the “non-discrimination clause” debate, the student body as a whole was largely accepting of the GLBTQ community. Each year this petition garners thou­sands of signatures, most of which come from students. However, in speaking with my friend about this issue, I have realized that ignorant views permeate the minds of more students than I had realized. 

While I still believe that the majority are not so bigoted as to use a pejorative term against a stranger based on his cloth­ing, I know that many harbor homophobic sentiments which they often do not hide well. This prejudice is unacceptable. 
Cliché as it sounds, peer pres­sure is one of the most effective agents of change for social mores. I urge the students here to make it a point in their daily lives to rise above discrimina­tion. 
Regardless of your beliefs on the morality of homosexual behavior, there is no excuse for discriminating against homo­sexuals as individuals. I hope that this campus can work toward this goal and learn to be welcoming to GLBTQ students. They have as much a right as anyone else to be here, and we need to treat them accordingly. 
Michelle Patzelt 
junior Breen-Phillips Hall March 23 
one time, senators seemed to take themselves much more seriously as men who were working together to make America better through compro­mise than as men working at odds to keep the other party from destroying our country. With 24-hour media, increased transparency, and the Internet, it is difficult for Congressmen to ever take a break from their next attack, lest they look too friendly with the enemy in front of constituents. 
Second, the gerrymandering of dis­tricts has created an environment where most Congressmen have little to fear from opposing party challengers. While there are certainly congressmen that have possibly sacrificed their own careers for the sake of passing the bill, this number is probably a minority of either party’s total representatives. Politico only came up with about 20 representatives that were truly going to have to defend their yes votes, and all of them hail from marginally blue districts, or districts that are even his­torically conservative. How to draw these districts in a politically tenable manner may be a difficult, if not impossible question. 
Finally, the importance of state pri­maries should be reexamined. Originally, they were intended to take the power of candidate selection from back rooms and party bosses. Now, however, they more or less guarantee both political parties a spot in every single election, even districts where a much more vibrant and moderate election could come from two con­tenders from the same party. Currently, candidates are forced to push to the extremes to win the tradi­tionally hardcore voters from their own party, and then push centrist again to appeal to voters at large. This creates an extreme option from both parties, rather than even one moder­ate from either party. If a single pri­mary were used in each state to select two candidates for a runoff, represen­tatives would not have to pass party purity tests to make a general election; they would merely need to appeal to their district’s electorate at large. 
The unintended consequences of this bill, for good or ill, will not appear for years down the road, but the lesson to be learned immediately is that con­gress simply does not cooperate in a way that seems viable for long term legislative success, and will not be truly effective as long as it continues to be party extremists from safe dis­tricts. 
Jason Coleman is a senior accounting major. He can be contacted at coleman.70@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


A plea to a mostly competent student body: True Reform 
As a survivor of testicular cancer I feel that I have a unique perspective on the issue of health care reform. I was lucky enough to survive three rounds of chemo and two surgeries only to receive two titles. The first title, “the uni-baller” is a fun little ditty my friends like to pull out at parties. Obviously a winner and an overall crowd pleaser. (If you did-n’t laugh at my self-deprecation you either have no soul and/or are probably a ginger.) The second title, however, is much more serious. Seeing as I sur­vived this tango with testicular cancer, I inherited the title of “pre-existing condition.” Ironically, this title means that the same private insurance which helped save my life will help to make health care completely unaffordable to me as a private citizen, unless I receive it as compensation from an employ­er. As you can imagine this is a sobering reality which helps me to recognize the NEED for a reformed health care and health insurance system. 
Now before you write me off as a communist, hell bent on destroying American capitalism, note that I openly admit that it was my parents’ private insur­ance which helped save my life, and it was my par­ents’ fiscal conservatism which allowed them to procure an excellent insurance plan. Also seeing as I am a staunch subscriber to the pragmatic benefits of capitalism, I can assure you that I don’t want to throw money at the severely wounded, almost defunct, federal spending structure. Frankly, as an American taxpayer I am insulted by Congress’ most recent “reform” bill, which merely exacerbates the existing problem by not addressing the underlying cost drivers of the care delivery and incentive sys­tem. 
My plea to you, as the leaders of tomorrow (trite phrasing, I know), is that you educate yourself not with the dogmatic seepage which spews so freely from the mouths of political hacks, but with infor­mation provided by the true experts who are large­ly ignored in this intellectually advanced endeavor. If you fail to understand the true problem, this great nation will accelerate down the dark hole of debt and despair, regardless of any proposed solu­tion offered by partisan politicians. The impact of Congress’ decisions is not limited to your Mommy or Daddy’s bank account (or mine for that matter), but has a real, and lasting effect on people with ill­nesses and pre-existing conditions like myself. Until you grasp the reality of the situation and edu­cate yourself to a sufficient level of competence, please refrain from insulting the millions of Americans who have to live with my same fears by publically and vociferously uttering your callous and ignorant opinions of the vastly complex health care delivery system. 
Aidan Fitzgerald 
senior off-campus March 23 


A sedentary complaint 
As I sit in O’Shaughnessy Hall for class I have to wonder who committed this atrocity. What atrocity you ask? 
Well my friends, it is the incredibly small size and comfort level of these desks. I had these same desks in elementary school and last time I checked I am not still 4-foot-8 inches and studying basic arithmetic. This is a top notch university, why am I sitting in an elementary school desk? Some of the desks on campus are great (i.e. the big rooms in DeBartolo, even some in the Pasquerilla Center), but the ones in O’Shag are just bad. I would like to cast a gen­eral vote of no confidence for whoever is responsible for this travesty. 

Patrick McHugh 
senior off-campus March 23 


The Observer 






Scene

page 10 Wednesday, March 24, 2010 

By COURTNEY COX 
Scene Writer 

“Volume Two,” the long awaited She & Him album, has finally arrived. Well, maybe not long awaited, but certainly highly anticipated. Since the group’s debut album in 2008, the question has been whether or not the duo of Matt Ward and Zooey Deschanel would continue their musical partnership beyond one album. When the announcement of their new album hit the Internet, fans let out a sigh of relief. The first album left listeners pleasantly surprised and the second does­n’t disappoint. 
The album starts out with “Thieves.” The song is about remaining somewhat depressed following a breakup. Deschanel wrote: “Sometimes lonely isn’t sad.” The lyrics are definitely interesting when placed next to the lyricist’s own life. For quite a bit of time, she dated Ben Gibbard of Death Cab for Cutie before settling down and marrying the singer this past September. It doesn’t seem like she’s all that lonely. In many ways, it is as if she is singing to and for the listener instead of singing about herself. It’s a great song because it portrays sadness in a very hopeful way. It’s definitely a solid opener to the album. 
One of the most interesting aspects of the album is the way the cover songs seem to fit so seamlessly into the rest of Deschanel’s original lyrics. One of the most enjoyable covers is “Ridin’ in My Car.” It’s so fantastic because it adds vocals from Matt into the mix. The two join together for an extremely pleasant duet. The best part of it is that they’re not singing togeth­er as a duet, but rather it should be imag­ined as the two of them driving in separate cars just singing to themselves. It provokes inspiration as far as imagery is concerned and blends in very well with the rest of the album. 
The other cover, “Gonna Get Along Without You Now,” is a great addition to the album. The word choice fits Deschanel so perfectly and yet it wasn’t even written with her in mind. The 1950’s feel suits her voice as well. She really delivers on a song driven mostly by vocal melodies. 


While cover songs have always been a sig­nature of She & Him — (including their Smiths cover in “500 Days of Summer”) — the songs really showcase the talent that both musicians have. 
“Home” is one of the most straightfor­ward and direct songs on the album. There are many songs about the concept of home, but this one truly captures what home is. The lyrics don’t waste any time; California is the very first word and it’s clearly what Deschanel views as home. Despite the link to her own home, she still manages to make the song universal. The best line in the song is: “It doesn’t get bet­ter than home now does it.” She says it in a manner that is so simple and relaxed that it truly does feel like home. Home is 
often also equated with love and 
Deschanel doesn’t neglect that at all. She 
writes: “I want to be where your heart is 
home.” The music is just as good as the 
lyrics in its simple message and sim­
ple choice of melody. 
Without a doubt the best song on 
the album is “In the Sun.” It has the 
same advice that a mother would 
give, but it sounds so much 
more appealing in 
Deschanel’s voice. She sings, 
“we all get the slip sometimes 
every day” and reassures the listener 
that everything’s going to be okay. The resounding chorus of “It’s alright! It’s okay!” is undeniably happy. It is also accompanied by one of the most pleasant music videos in the history of music videos. If you had any reason to wonder, now why would I ever be a fan of Zooey Deschanel, then you simply must watch this video. She sings and dances and just about charms the pants off anyone who watches. 
“Volume Two” exceeds the expectations of those who enjoyed of “Volume One” and if we’re lucky Volume Three will be soon to come. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 


“Volume Two” She & Him 
Record Label: Merge Records Noteworthy Tracks: “Thieves,” “In the Sun,” and “Home” 




Scene Staff Report  sixth season, “The Office” has struggled to find  
its way this year. Between the sale of Dunder  
“Dancing With The Stars” (Mondays, 8  Mifflin’s Scranton branch to Sabre and the  
p.m., ABC)  hurried relationship between Jim and Pam,  
“Dancing With The Stars” premiered  “The Office” has lacked a little bit of its origi- 
Monday with a new season and an all-star  nal off-beat and hilarious humor. A welcome  
lineup. Controversy already surrounds  storyline is the awkward but sweet romance of  
the season as Kate Gosselin, infamous  Erin and Andy. Here’s to hoping that this once  
mother of “Jon and Kate Plus Eight,” is a  great show soon finds it’s footing again.  
c on t e st an t . F o ot b a ll pla y e r C had  
Ochocinco also promises to be an exciting  “ 1 0 T h i n g s I H a t e A bo u t Yo u” r e t u r ns  
contestant to watch, dancing for the first  March 24 (Thursdays, 8 p.m., ABC Family)  
time outside the end zone. If his Cha Cha  The second season of the series, inspired on  
from Monday night is any indication, he  the film of the same name, picks up right  
will be a fierce competitor. From Buzz  where it left off last season after snarky Kat  
Aldrin to Pamela Anderson, Pussycat Doll  ditched school with bad boy Patrick to stand  
N i c o le Sc herzi nger to B ach elor J ak e  up in protest of the school’s new policies that  
Pavelka, the season promises to be full of  encroached upon student privacy. But, uh-oh,  
stellar moves and swinging hips.  now she is upset to learn it might affect her  
chances of getting into her dream college.  
“Gossip Girl” (Mondays, 9 p.m., The  Meanwhile, Bianca has her own problem when  
CW)  she discovers her kiss with stupid but cute  
It was hard to feel the xoxo when Gossip  Joey was caught on videotape potentially  
Girl made a flat return on March 8, but  endangering her social standing and position  
fortunately the drama and fashion picked  on the cheerleading squad with queen bee  
up the pace in the last two episodes. You  Chastity. Will nerdy but endearing Cameron  
have to wonder though, how many times  eventually win Bianca over? And will Kat and  
c an R uf u s r ea l isti c all y den o unce h is  Patrick ever become a real couple?  
daughter? Obviously she’s a screw-up, but  
c a n w e ju s t m o v e o n alr e ad y? A l s o ,  “ Va m pi r e D ia ri es ” re t ur ns M arc h 25  
Chuck’s mama-drama is not all that inter­ (Thursdays, 8 p.m., The CW)  
esting and the coupledom of the series is  The last time we saw the gang of Mystic  
getting a little too predictable. Something  Falls, Va., there was a lot of death, a lot of fire  
major is needed to revive this weakening  and a lot of The CW-worthy angst. Heroine  
power-hour of teen television. An unex- Elena and the vampire brothers Damon and  
pected pregnancy might be the only thing  Stefan Salvatore teamed up with Bonnie and  
left that can bring a little life to the Upper  her Grams, both witches, to open the tomb  
East Side.  that had imprisoned vampires since the Civil  
War. Da m o n fo un d o u t th a t his b e l ov e d  
“The Office” (Thursdays, 9 p.m., NBC)  Katherine was not among the withered vam­ 
Everyone’s favorite mockumentary tele­ pires in the tomb. He was not a happy camper  
vision show returned on March 4 with  — so the series returns to find him hooking up  
”The Delivery,” an hour-long episode  more than a freshman at DomerFest. Look for  
devoted to the birth of Jim and Pam’s  a guest stint by Melinda Clarke (Marissa’s mom  
baby. Now more than halfway through its  on “The O.C.”) as Damon’s latest conquest.  

The Observer 



Scene

Wednesday, March 24, 2010 page 11 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 24, 2010 
NBA 

Arenas may get three months 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Prosecutors are portraying Gilbert Arenas as a thuggish intimidator who tried to pressure his teammate into a cover-up, as they argue for a three-month jail sentence for the NBA star on a weapons charge. 
Arenas’ lawyer says his client is “a peaceful man” who played a misguided prank and has already been severely punished for bringing guns into the Washington Wizards locker room. He says the more fitting punishment is probation and community service. 
Both sides staked out their positions Tuesday in court fil­ings, ahead of Friday’s sen­tencing in D.C. Superior Court. 
Arenas pleaded guilty Jan. 15 to one felony count of vio­lating the District of Columbia’s strict gun laws, a charge stemming from a lock-er-room confrontation that fol­lowed a card-game dispute between Arenas and teammate Javaris Crittenton during a Dec. 19 flight to Washington. Authorities say Arenas threat­ened to shoot Crittenton in the face and blow up his car. Two days later, Arenas brought four guns to the locker room and put them in a chair by Crittenton’s locker with a sign saying, “Pick 1.” Crittenton then retrieved his own gun and showed it to Arenas. 
Prosecutors wrote that the locker-room incident “was not a spur-of-the-moment joke,” but rather a calculated attempt by Arenas to defend his supremacy among his peers. 
“In the confined quarters of an airplane, a younger, junior player disrespected the defen­dant in front of the entire team,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher Kavanaugh wrote. “On a team where the defen­dant is the highest-paid player, was the face of the franchise, and is known for particularly outrageous conduct, the defen­dant believed he had no choice but to respond.” 
In arguing for jail time, Kavanaugh noted that Arenas lied repeatedly about why the guns were in the locker room. Arenas first claimed he brought them to work because he wanted to get them out of the house and away from his three young children. 
Also, on the day after the confrontation, Arenas told a member of the Wizards’ man­agement that Crittenton wasn’t even in the locker room when the guns were displayed, according to prosecutors. Minutes later, Arenas asked an unnamed teammate to for­ward a text message to Crittenton, Kavanaugh wrote. The message instructed Crittenton about what he should tell NBA officials. 
“Ur new story. U were n the training rm when u got out there were 3 guns on ur chair with a note. That said pick one. Send that to javaris ill take all the Blame,” Arenas wrote, according to prosecu­tors. “Ill come up with the story. But that all he needs to say. If we hav to talk to the nba office.” 
A spokeswoman for Arenas’ lawyers declined to comment on the allegation. She said the defense would respond to the government’s sentencing memorandum at Friday’s hearing. 
Prosecutors also cited Arenas’ prior conviction for carrying a concealed weapon in California in 2003 and his joking antics in the wake of the incident. They said any claim by Arenas that he was ignorant of D.C. gun laws is false, citing a November 2009 team meeting on the subject. 
As part of the plea deal with Arenas, the government said in January it would not seek more than six months in jail, although the judge can give Arenas anywhere from proba­tion to the charge’s maximum term of five years. The sen­tencing guidelines for someone with Arenas’ record call for a sentence of six to 24 months, although the guidelines also allow for probation. 
In Tuesday’s filing, prosecu­tors also proposed that Arenas serve three years’ probation and perform 300 hours of community service in addition to the three-month jail term. 
A survey of similar cases over the last two years in the district indicate that about half of the defendants convict­ed of Arenas’ crime receive some amount of jail time. Crittenton received a year of unsupervised probation after pleading guilty in January to a misdemeanor gun charge. He did not have a prior guns-related conviction. 
Arenas’ lawyers held nothing back in making the case for their client, filing a memoran­dum that runs 122 pages and includes numerous character-reference letters, with Arenas’ father, Alana Beard of the WNBA’s Washington Mystics and ESPN’s Dave McMenamin among those offering their support. There are no letters from any of Arenas’ current or former Wizards teammates, coaches or management. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Butler Bulldogs rely on team continuity 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — When Matt Howard arrived at Butler, he was just trying to fit in. 
There were nuances and playbooks to learn, and upperclassmen were trying to teach him how to win the Butler way. 
Now, after spending one season adjusting and another re-teaching those lessons to his young teammates, the junior center is reaping the benefits of college basket­ball’s rarest commodity — continuity. 
“When you get used to peo­ple, you can get into a rhythm,” Howard said Tuesday before leaving with his teammates for the West Regional semifinals in Salt Lake. 
He certainly knows what to expect from his teammates now. 
What Butler has done over the past two seasons defies the conventional wisdom of today’s game. At a time when one-and-done recruits domi­nate the national stage and mid-major programs rely heavily on seniors, Butler has gone down a different road. 
It did not lose a single play­er off last season’s roster, and coach Brad Stevens has used the same starting lineup — Howard, Gordon Hayward, Shelvin Mack, Ronald Nored and Willie Veasley — for 61 of the last 66 games. That’s three sophomores, a junior and one senior. The only time Stevens changed the lineup was because of injuries. 
And they got even more playing time together on last summer’s trip to Italy, which means the Butler five have started the equivalent of 2½ to three seasons together. 
The dividends are priceless. 
“As a point guard, it really makes it easy when you know where everybody is going to be and what everyone is going to do,” Nored said. “You still have to work on things at practice, but it makes it a lot harder as a point guard when you don’t know where they’re going to be.” 
Butler can see the results. 
A year ago, with three freshmen and a sophomore starting, the Bulldogs strug­gled in February and March and wound up losing to LSU in the first round of the NCAA tournament. In November, when Nored was trying to play his way back from a stress fracture in his left leg, the Bulldogs lost twice in California. 
Since Nored’s recovery, the Bulldogs (30-4) have been vir­tually unbeatable. 
They have won 22 straight games, the Horizon League regular-season and tourney titles and on Saturday reached their third regional semifinal since 2003. They haven’t lost since Dec. 22 at Alabama-Birmingham, and a win Thursday over top-seed­ed Syracuse would move Butler within one victory of returning home for the Final Four. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
Design experience is not necessary Dame's website: http.csap.nd.edu UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do For rent: Furnished 4 bedroom 
but a plus. Send resume to ——————————————— not go it alone. Notre Dame has

FOR RENT house 5 blocks from campus. WANTED mmurtaghm@aol.com CONSIDERING ADOPTION? ND many resources in place to assist 
ATTN: Grad Student-faculty. Off street parking, security system, SUMMER SALES INTERNSHIP ——————————————— ALUMS hoping to adopt. Please you. If you or someone you love central air. 
with an energetic start up company. visit our website needs confidential support or assis-Spacious 2-bdrm, 2.5 bath home, Must have strong communications, http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro-tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 

LR, DR, FR, Florida Room. Nice. Only $350.00 a month each. 
PERSONAL

computer, and time management file.net. 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For Fenced yard, 2-car garage. Call 574-289-4071. 
skills. Benefits include flexible loca-If you or someone you care about ——————————————— more information, visit ND's web ——————————————— 
tion and work schedule for 20 self-has been sexually assaulted, we Cleaning By Maria 954-657-1898 site: Security. Near ND. 

gradrentals.viewwork.com 
motivated ND students who enjoy can help. Homes, Apartments, Offices http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu 262-332-0015. team competition. For more information, visit Notre Affordable and Reliable ——————————————— 
——————————————— 
——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 

Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Wednesday, March 24, 2010 
page 13 

USA Today Division I Baseball Poll 
team previous 
1 Arizona State 1 2 Virginia 2 3 Georgia Tech 4 4 LSU 3 5 Clemson 7 6 UCLA 10 7 Florida State 5 8 Texas 6 9 Florida 11 10TCU 8 11 Louisville 9 12 Oklahoma 13 13 Coastal Carolina 12 14 Miami 14 15 Oregon State 18 16 Alabama 21 17 Arkansas 15 18 Mississippi 19 19 North Carolina 17 20 Vanderbilt 16 21 Texas A&M 23 22 UC Irvine 24 23 South Carolina NR 24 Kentucky 20 25 Southeastern La. NR 
USA Today/NFCA Division I 
Softball Poll  
team  previous  
1  Washington  1  
2  Arizona  2  
3  Missouri  4  
4  Florida  3  
5  Michigan  7  
6  Georgia  6  
7  UCLA  5  
8  Arizona State  9  
9  Stanford  10  
10  Alabama  8  
11  Georgia Tech  12  
12  Oklahoma  11  
13  California  13  
14  LSU  16  
15  Texas  15  
16  Florida State  18  
17  Ohio State  17  
18  Louisville  14  
19  Tennessee  20  
20  Oklahoma State  25  
21  Illinois  21  
22  La.-Lafayette  19  
23  North Carolina  NR  
24  Texas A&M  23  
25  Massachusetts  24  



around the dial 
NBA 
Nuggets at Celtics 7 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 
Lakers at Spurs 
9:30 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Lady Bulldogs top Buckeyes 87-67 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — Alexis Rack drove through and around Ohio State’s slow-to-react defense for 30 points and seventh-seeded Mississippi State upset the second-seeded Buckeyes 87-67 on Tuesday night to reach the NCAA women’s tournament round of 16 for the first time. 
The Lady Bulldogs trailed by as many as eight points in the first half, only to use their quick­ness, adept ball movement and outside shooting to seize control with an 18-0 run that turned a 32-26 deficit into a 44-32 lead. They never looked back in avenging a second-round loss to the Buckeyes a sea­son ago. 
Mississippi State (21-12) plays Florida State (28-5) on Sunday in Dayton. 
Ohio State star Jantel Lavender, harassed all night by Chanel Mokango, scored 17 points — many after it was far too late. The 6-foot-4 Lavender repeatedly had trouble posting up as the 6-5 Mokango used her long reach and quickness to deny passes or, when Lavender handled the ball, to pressure her into taking hurried or off-balance shots. 
Mokango scored 19 points herself, Armelie Lumanu added 17 and Mary Kathryn Govero scored 15 by making 5 of 6 from 3-point range. The Lady Bulldogs were 12 of 22 from beyond the arc to 10 of 15 for Ohio State, the nation’s best 3-point shooting team. 
The Buckeyes’ fast-growing frustration showed when team leader Samantha Prahalis tore at her shorts in anger after fouling out with nearly five minutes remaining, taking any chances of a despera­tion comeback with her. The 20-point loss was Ohio State’s worst in the tournament since 1996. 
Ohio State (31-5) became the second No. 2­seeded team to lose in as many nights, joining Texas A&M. It’s only the third time since the women’s bracket expanded to 64 teams in 1994 that a pair of 2-seeds lost, the other seasons being 2002 and 2007. 
A year ago, the Lady Bulldogs led the Buckeyes 58-54 in Columbus with 
6:43 remaining, but didn’t score again as Ohio State scored its final 10 points on free throws to win 64­
58. Rack said Monday she didn’t have many memo­ries of that disappointing loss and, on a neutral floor, it was Mississippi State that pulled off the comeback this time, mak­ing 55.7 percent of its shots (34 of 61) to Ohio State’s 46.3 percent (25 of 54). 
IN BRIEF 
Dolphins’ RB Ronnie Brown charged with DUI 
ATLANTA — Miami Dolphins run­ning back Ronnie Brown, who had been in the suburban Atlanta area to help celebrate his parents’ anniver­sary, was arrested on a charge of driving under the influence of alco­hol and released from jail a few hours later, officials said Monday. 
The 28-year-old fifth-year pro was arrested at 4:29 a.m. Saturday, Marietta Police Officer Jennifer Murphy said. Marietta is about 15 miles northwest of Atlanta. 
Brown’s mother, Joyce Brown, told The Associated Press in a phone interview on Monday that Brown was visiting his hometown of Cartersville for her and her hus­band’s 32nd anniversary. She said he had eaten dinner with relatives and then went to a club. She didn’t know the name of the club, but the night was not part of the anniver­sary celebration. 
Nets’ chief executive defends argument with fan 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — The chief executive of the New Jersey Nets says he has no regrets about arguing with a fan who wore a paper bag over his head during yet another loss by the team. 
CEO Brett Yormack said in a state­ment Tuesday he wanted to let the fan know he didn’t agree with the way he was expressing his opinion. 
Yormark approached the fan during a 99-89 loss to Miami on Monday night. He asked why he was wearing the bag. When the fan told him because the Nets were so good, Yormark exchanged words and point­ed a finger at him. The fan held up his tickets, and Yormark walked away. 
The Nets are nearing the record for fewest wins in an NBA season. Yormack said despite the frustrations he will continue to stand up for the organization. 
NFL changes overtime rules for playoff games 
ORLANDO, Fla. — Sudden death has gotten a little less sudden in the NFL playoffs. 
The league on Tuesday changed its overtime rules for postseason games. Starting next season, if a team wins the coin toss and then kicks a field goal, the other team gets the ball. If that next series ends with another field goal, play will continue under the current sudden-death rules. 
If the team winning the toss imme­diately scores a touchdown, however, the game is over. 
Team owners voted 28-4 on Tuesday in favor of the proposal at the NFL meetings. Minnesota, Buffalo, Cincinnati and Baltimore opposed the change. 
Passage was helped by commission­er Roger Goodell’s support and by a spate of statistics indicating the coin toss had become too prominent in determining OT winners. 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday. March 24, 2010 
MLB 

Edmonds drives in fve runs in Brewers win 
Ichiro’s catch saves Mariners; Cain pitches Giants to victory over White Sox; Royals, Cubs tie; Padres top Rockies 
Associated Press 
GOODYEAR, Ariz. — Jim Edmonds drove in five runs and Dave Bush pitched six innings to lead the Milwaukee Brewers to a 10-2 win over the Cleveland Indians on Tuesday. 
Edmonds hit a three-run homer off Jeremy Sowers in a four-run first inning and a two-run single off Jensen Lewis in a five-run second. The 39-year­old Edmonds, a 16-year veter­an with 382 career homers and eight Gold Gloves in the out­field, is on a minor league con­tract after sitting out last sea­son. 
Bush allowed one run and five hits, becoming the first Brewers pitcher to work six innings this spring. 
Sowers gave up six earned runs, five hits and two walks in one-plus inning. The left-han­der has been hit hard in two outings after being sidelined early in camp with a strained shoulder. 
Mariners 6, Angels 4 
Ichiro Suzuki is getting a head start on another Gold Glove. 
The right fielder made an outstanding catch during the second inning of the Seattle Mariners’ victory over the Los Angeles Angels on Tuesday. 
With his back to the plate, the Japanese star robbed Jeff Mathis of extra bases with a tumbling grab on the warning track. The crowd gasped, then cheered. 
The remarkable play spared struggling starter Ryan Rowland-Smith from further damage beyond the eight hits and four runs he allowed in five innings. 
Franklin Gutierrez had a two-run double for the Mariners. 
Angels right-hander Ervin Santana was scratched from the start with elbow inflamma­tion. 
Giants 6, White Sox 1 
Matt Cain pitched into the seventh inning in an impressive start, leading the San Francisco Giants to a victory over the Chicago White Sox on Tuesday. 
Cain yielded three hits and an unearned run in 6 2-3 innings, helping San Francisco improve to a majors-best 16-6 this spring. 
Pablo Sandoval and Bengie Molina each had two doubles and drove in a run for the Giants, who finished with seven doubles. 
Gavin Floyd pitched four innings for the White Sox, and was charged with six runs and nine hits. 
Cubs 5, Royals 5 
Kansas City starter Luke Hochevar gave up one run in five innings Tuesday as the Royals and Chicago Cubs played to a tie. 
The game was called after five innings. It was the Royals' third tie this spring. 
Hochevar gave up five hits, walked none and struck out three. Ryan Dempster allowed two runs and four hits while striking out six in 5 1-3 innings, the longest outing by a Cubs starter. 
Brayan Pena hit a tying, two-run homer for the Royals in the sixth off Carlos Marmol. 
Derrek Lee had a two-run double for the Cubs. Aramis Ramirez, who had not played since March 13 because of a right triceps injury, had an RBI single. 
Padres 9, Rockies 6 
Nick Hundley hit a two-run homer in San Diego’s five-run sixth inning, helping the Padres to a win over the Colorado Rockies on Tuesday. 
Tony Gwynn had three hits and scored three runs for the Padres, who finished with 14 hits. Chase Headley had two RBIs. 
Troy Tulowitzki, Carlos Gonzalez and Chris Iannetta homered for the Rockies. Jason Hammel pitched five-plus innings, yielding five runs and seven hits. 


Wednesday, March 24, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Xavier rallies to notch upset over Vanderbilt 
Undefeated Connecticut beats Temple by 54 points to advance to Sweet 16, extend winning streak to 74 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI — No watching and wincing this year. Amber Harris is taking Xavier places in the NCAA tournament where it hasn’t gone in a long time. 
With each clutch basket, she reminded them of what they missed in last year’s madness. 
The 6-foot-5 forward with power moves and a soft touch extended the Musketeers’ sea­son Tuesday night with two minutes of the brilliance. Harris made the go -ahead layup with 12.3 seconds left, and third-seeded Xavier held on for a 63 -62 win over Vanderbilt in the second round of the NCAA tournament. 
Down by 10 midway through the second half, the Musketeers (29-3) let the Atlantic 10’s player of the year take over. 
“Amber does have a knack for making a shot when we’ve got to have it and helping us down the stretch to get a win,” coach Kevin McGuff said. “She certainly did tonight.” 
The Musketeers will take a 20-game winning streak into its Sacramento Regional semi­final against Gonzaga on Saturday, their season extend­ed by an improbable come­back on their home court. The Musketeers hadn’t been to the round of 16 since former coach Melanie Balcomb led them to the Elite Eight in 2001, before moving on to Vanderbilt. 

Back in the building, Balcomb almost led the Commodores (23-11) to a big upset. 
Instead, their last two shots rattled off the rim. 
“I just turned and ran the other way,” said Harris, who began hugging players at mid-court. 
Vanderbilt led most of the game behind the steadying play of All-SEC point guard Jence Rhoads, who had 20 points and seven assists. Harris missed last year’s tour­nament while recovering from knee surgery, and wouldn’t let this season come up short again after three straight early NCAA flameouts. 
Harris scored Xavier’s six points in the final 1:22, all on point-blank shots off moves to the basket. After her layup put the Musketeers ahead, Vanderbilt had two chances to win it. 
Lauren Lueders missed from the top of the key, and the long rebound went to Rhoads at the left of the basket. She put up a soft shot that hit both sides of the rim before slip­ping off as the buzzer sound­ed, sending Xavier players into a tearful huddle at mid-court. 
“I knew I had to get it up quick because I only had few seconds, if that,” said Rhoads, who was 8 of 18 from the field. “It felt good when I released it, but I guess I just shot it too quick.” 
Even the Musketeers seemed stunned that they’d pulled it off. 
“There was a sigh of relief,” center Ta’Shia Phillips said. “It really hasn’t hit me yet.” 
Credit Xavier’s dynamic front-line duo for pulling it off. 
The 6-foot-6 Phillips had 15 points and 17 rebounds, get­ting the best of the scrums under the basket. Harris fin­ished with a game-high 21 points, going 10 of 18 from the field. 
After her shot fell off the rim, Rhoads fell to her knees on the floor, soaking in how close the Commodores had come to a third straight berth in the round of 16. 
“That was a tough way to lose,” Balcomb said. “That was one of those games you hate to see either team lose.” 
Xavier looked to be headed for a stinging loss on its home court because it couldn’t make a 3-pointer, leaving the Musketeers a two-dimensional offensive team with Harris and Phillips. Xavier missed 17 of it first 18 shots from behind the arc, with Katie Rutan — who set the school’s freshman record for 3s this season — missing on her first seven tries. 
McGuff left the struggling freshman in the game down the stretch, and she regrouped and knocked down three in a row, sparking the comeback. Rutan’s final 3 cut Vanderbilt’s lead to 60-57 with 2:01 to go. 



“It’s hard,” McGuff said. “You’re talking about a fresh­man with a chance to help her team make the Sweet 16 in the NCAA tournament. But she’s a unique player with a unique mindset. That’s why I left her in there.” 
Harris took it from there. 
Connecticut 90, Temple 36 
Connecticut coach Geno Auriemma hugged his former assistant before their teams met in the second round of the NCAA women’s tournament. 
Once the game started, affection gave way to near perfection by the Huskies. 
UConn was flawless at both ends of the floor against Temple, romping on Tuesday night. It was the top-seeded Huskies’ 74th win in a row, the longest streak in NCAA Division I women’s history, and one of the most impres­sive. 
It may also have been one of the least enjoyable for Auriemma since it came against a team coached by second-year Owls coach Tonya Cardoza, one of his assistants for 14 years. 
But Cardoza and the eighth-seeded Owls (25-9) never had a chance. 
Moore hit 3-pointers on the Huskies’ first two possession, they ran off 20 points in a row 
in 6 minutes after Temple closed within 13-5 and fin­ished the half on a 20-1 burst. 
NHL 
Zajac, Parise each net two goals in Devils win 
connect on their previous 17 
Associated Press 
power-play attempts. 
NEWARK, N.J. — Travis Sharp stops by Brodeur at Zajac and Zach Parise each the start kept the Blue Jackets scored twice and Ilya off the scoreboard. Brodeur Kovalchuk had a goal and turned aside Rick Nash’s shot three assists to lead the New from the slot before making a Jersey Devils to a win over the sprawling save on Derick Columbus Blue Jackets on Brassard. Tuesday night. The revived power play 
Paul Martin also scored for struck again when Martin the Devils, and Martin scored 1:14 into the second as Brodeur made 19 saves to the Devils grabbed a 2-0 lead. reach the 40-win mark for the Martin fired in the rebound of eighth time. No other NHL Patrik Elias’ shot for his sec-goalie has had more than ond goal in four games since three 40-win seasons. returning to the lineup after 
The Devils jumped over the missing 59 game because of a Penguins and into first place broken arm. in the Atlantic Division. New Vermette scored at 3:40 on a Jersey and Pittsburgh both slap shot from just inside the have 90 points, but the Devils blue line that rocketed past have one more win than the Brodeur’s glove to make it 2­Penguins and have played one 1. fewer game. Kovalchuk scored the Devils’ 
Antoine Vermette, Jakub third power-play tally at Voracek and Kristian Huselius 12:32, picking the short side scored for Columbus. to beat Steve Mason from the 
The Devils’ dormant power-bottom of the left circle. It was play came alive and produced his first goal in five games and New Jersey’s first three goals. sixth in 17 games with New 
The Devils grabbed the lead Jersey. at 13:01 of the first period Zajac scored the next two on when Parise pounded home deflections at 15:40 and 19:07 Jamie Langenbrunner’s as the Devils expanded their rebound for New Jersey’s first lead to 5-1. Voracek closed out man-advantage goal in seven the scoring in the second peri­games. The Devils failed to od with 20 seconds remaining. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, March 24, 2010 
NHL 

Bruins extend lead with shutout win 

Associated Press 
ATLANTA — David Krejci scored a goal and assisted on another, Tuukka Rask blanked Atlanta for the second time this season, and the Bruins kept up their mastery of the Thrashers with a crucial 4-0 victory Tuesday night that extended Boston’s lead for the final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. 
The Bruins moved three points ahead of the Thrashers in the playoff race, snapping Atlanta’s four-game winning streak. 
Krejci put the Bruins ahead less than 10 minutes into the opening period, then set up Milan Lucic’s goal that made it 2-0. Miroslav Satan scored off a deflection with just 4 seconds left in the second, and Steve Begin put it out of reach with a goal early in the third. 
Rask stopped a penalty shot and made 28 saves in all to beat Atlanta for the third time this season, including a pair of 4-0 victories. The Bruins have won 10 in a row over the Thrashers, whose last win against Boston came on Dec. 29, 2007. 
Atlanta had outscored oppo­nents 18-9 during its winning streak, which improbably moved the team that traded Ilya Kovalchuk just before the Olympic break back into the thick of the playoff race. 
But the Thrashers had no answer for Rask, who has won all three of his starts against Atlanta with a 0.97 goals-against average. 
His biggest save came on Colby Armstrong, who had scored four goals in Atlanta’s last four games. Going in on a breakaway with the Thrashers trailing 2-0, the winger was hooked from behind by Dennis Wideman and awarded a penal­ty shot. But Armstrong failed to convert, his attempt at the upper right corner turned away by Rusk’s quick glove. 
The Bruins went ahead at 9:25 of the opening period thanks to good work along the boards by Krejci. He worked the puck behind the Atlanta net before sliding it back to Michael Ryder, who popped out in front to lure away the defense in front of goalie Johan Hedberg. Krejci slipped out on the other side, took a return pass from Ryder and stuffed the puck past a help­less Hedberg. 
Krejci set up Boston’s next goal at 7:59 of the second. Lucic circled alone in front of the net, took a pass from his teammate and ripped a shot over Hedberg’s glove hand to double the lead. 
The real killer for the Thrashers came just before the end of the period. Patrice Bergeron won a faceoff, sliding the puck back to Zdeno Chara just inside the blue line. The big defenseman fired it toward the net, where Satan deflected it past Hedberg with 4 seconds remaining before the second intermission. 
NBA 

Granger, Pacers beat Pistons; Kuester ejected 
Associated Press 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. — Danny Granger scored 32 points and the Indiana Pacers snapped a nine-game road losing streak with a 98-83 victory over the Detroit Pistons Tuesday night. 
Indiana is just 20 -46 against the rest of the NBA, but beat Detroit in all four meetings this season — the first time the Pacers swept a season series with the Pistons. 
Detroit was officially elimi­nated from the playoff race with the loss, ending an eight-year streak of postsea­son appearances. 
Brandon Rush scored 20 points for Indiana, while Troy Murphy added 10 points and 12 rebounds. Tayshaun Prince led the Pistons with 14. 
The Pistons lost starting point guard Will Bynum in the first half with a back bruise, then coach John Kuester was ejected for argu­ing a call in the third quarter. 
Indiana led by double fig­ures in the first quarter, but only held a 52-49 advantage at the half. The Pacers regained the momentum in the third, moving the margin to 13 in the aftermath of Kuester’s ejection. 
The Pacers led by 11 going into the fourth and were never seriously threatened down the stretch. 
NCAA 
Title IX arguments still persist 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — A wrestling coach sees Title IX being used to discriminate against men. The man who wrote the original legislation thinks it’s working well with the numbers of both men and women playing college sports up greatly over the past four decades. 
The head of an athletic department in the mighty Southeastern Conference says the biggest problem with meeting gender equity is what he calls the elephant in the room: College football. 
“We have 330 varsity ath­letes, 110 are on the football team,” Vanderbilt vice chan­cellor David Williams said Tuesday night. “So if you want me to get to 50-50, that means I have slots for 55 men other than football.” 
Williams spoke during a panel discussion of whether the law requiring gender equi­ty in college sports needs to be reformed or is simply being misinterpreted. Former U.S. Sen. Birch Bayh defended the law he helped pass in 1972 and agreed with Williams about football the most power­ful of all college sports. 
Middle Tennessee State wrestling coach Bryan Knepper argued against what he called unintended conse­quences of men losing teams at schools trying to meet Title IX. 
He cited men forced to play club level sports because of cuts in wrestling, track and field, swimming and other sports. He noted Division I has only 17 men’s gymnastics pro­grams left, and he gave exam­ples of programs like a wrestling program at Carson-Newman College in Tennessee that recently lost its team despite a $1 million endow­ment offer. 
“Now a law intended to be one to not discriminate based on sex is actually allowing it. You can cut men’s programs and basically discriminate against them in order to make it equal. That’s not true equal­ity,” Knepper said. 
Bayh denied that, noting how three times as many wrestling programs were cut between 1984 and 1988 when Title IX was not being enforced by the Reagan administration. 
“There are more men partic­ipating now today than there were at the beginning of Title IX,” said Bayh, who represent­ed Indiana in the Senate between 1963-81. “I don’t know how you can say it’s dis­crimination.” 
Williams was the only pan­elist able to discuss Title IX from the position of having made decisions based on try­ing to meet the federal law. 
He worked at Ohio State and saw how that Big Ten school met gender equality by start­ing a women’s crew program. To meet one requirement of Title IX, he had to cut men’s soccer a few years ago and added women’s swimming and bowling. That women’s bowl­ing team in 2007 won Vanderbilt the only national championship in school histo­ry. 
“We had to add women’s sports. Then you have to deal with the budgetary situation. The university says, ‘We’re not going to give it anymore money,’” Williams said in defending the move. 
Williams also noted that his daughter swims for Brown, a university that has 36 sports offering no scholarships com­pared to the 16 varsity sports Vanderbilt has with scholar­ships. 
Money is out there. Williams was part of the SEC’s negotiat­ing committee that worked out a 15-year deal with ESPN reportedly worth more than $2 billion to televise the league’s sports in 2008. Vanderbilt will be receiving $18 million to $20 million a year under that package. 



Wednesday, March 24, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
Offense 
continued from page 20 
“I think our guys were a little bit more confident today,” Schrage said. “We hit a lot less fly balls today than we did all season.” 
The win comes on the heels of a disappointing weekend against Michigan State (12-4), when the Irish dropped all three contests, 13-0, 7-4 and 3-0. 
“I was really disappointed in how we played over the week­end [against Michigan State], in fact I was embarrassed at how but he only lasted one inning after giving up two earned runs and two hits with two walks. 
The real damage for the Irish came in the second inning when Cardinals freshman right-han­der Michael Sandman entered the game in relief. Notre Dame quickly dropped six runs in a third of an inning, starting with an inning-opening triple from catcher Cameron McConnell. McConnell was 1 for 3 with an RBI on the night. 
“[Senior infielder David] Mills and [senior centerfielder Ryne] Intlekofer set the tone right off the bat, and to go up by 8-0 after two innings, we have not 
we played over the weekend,” Schrage said. “There is one thing I know, and that is how to work hard and hustle and that is what I want our team to do.” 
Getting the starting nod for Notre Dame was junior 

“There is one thing I know, and that is how to work hard and hustle and that is what I want our team to do.” 
Dave Schrage Irish coach 
done that all sea­son, so I was happy about how we came out,” Schrage said. 
After earning the 8-0 lead, the life seemed to fall out of the Cardinals, as the closest they got the game was 11­5, which would be the final. 
Sophomore left-

right-hander Ryan Sharpley, who was on a strict pitch count and lasted only 2 2/3 innings. Sharpley only allowed three hits and two earned runs with two strikeouts and five walks. 
“Sharpley is a guy that we are trying to work in slowly. I thought his first two innings were good and that he got tired in the third,” Schrage said. 
Sharpley is rehabilitating from a labrum injury that side­lined him for the entire 2009 season. 
Ball State (6-14) started with senior right-hander Brad Piatt, hander Ryan Richter took over for Sharpley and pitched 4 1/3 innings of relief to keep the game out of reach for Ball State. Richter gave up three earned runs on six hits. 
Senior right-hander Billy Boockford cleaned up the last two innings of the game without giving up a hit or a run. 
The Irish next take the field this afternoon at 5:05 p.m. at Eck Stadium against Illinois-Chicago. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
Pro Day 
continued from page 20 
rent Notre Dame players, including sophomore quarter­back Dayne Crist and sopho­more wide receiver Michael Floyd, among others. They shouted encouragement to their former teammates throughout the workouts. 
Kelly speaks at Hall of Fame 
Kelly spoke Tuesday at the College Football Hall of Fame Gridiron Luncheon series and answered several questions about the team’s spring prac­tices. Kelly said there are a number of things the team needs to learn. 
“Their attention to detail is not where it needs to be,” Kelly said. “Their discipline is not where it needs to be. They need to care about themselves and their foot­ball players a lot more. I’m tired of hearing about the next NFL player to come out of Notre Dame, quite frankly. They need to understand who we are. We’re the Fighting Irish. We’re creating an atmosphere that’s a little bit different than what they’re used to, so we’ve got those things to work on.” 
Kelly also confirmed several position changes, including freshman Theo Riddick’s move from running back to slot wide receiver. Other changes include sophomore offensive lineman Lane Clelland moving to defen­sive end and junior fullback Steve Paskorz moving to inside linebacker. 
According to Kelly said sopho­more quarterback Dayne Crist has continued to make good progress recovering from knee surgery after tearing his anteri­or cruciate ligament (ACL) last fall. 
“We’d be really close to play­ing with him. Obviously we’re going to be smart. He’ll play all of our seven-on-seven routines, he’ll be in all of our one-on­ones,” Kelly said. 
“We’ll put a big funnel around him to make sure that nobody gets near him but he’s got to get out there and take snaps. He’s got to learn the offense. He’s got to earn the starting job. He’s done a great job of putting him­self in position to do all that.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, March 24, 2010 

Diggins 
continued from page 20 
start, her defense was outstand­ing. After we spotted them the 10-point lead, I thought our defense really played well.” 
Despite Diggins’ performance, the Catamounts (27-7) would not be intimidated in the first half. Taking full advantage of its size, Vermont successfully established itself in the post early in the game. Backed by the lights-out shooting of May Kotsopoulos, the Catamounts jumped to a 20-10 lead with 11 minutes remaining in the first half. 
“I think our game plan was have them get up 10 points and then we would come all the way back,” senior guard Lindsay Schrader said. “They’re physical. They made their shots, and it seemed that in the first half they could not miss.” 
Sparked by junior forward Devereaux Peters, the Irish picked up the slack on the defen­sive end. Forcing turnovers, affecting shots, and grabbing rebounds, Peters enabled Diggins to direct the transition offense and lead a 13-3 Irish run. 

“It’s amazing when we sub and we come in with Devereaux Peters, who would be starting for almost every other team that we play,” McGraw said. “It really excites the team and the crowd, and I think it’s demoralizing for the opponent. She sees that as her role, to really wreak havoc defensively, and she did a great job of that again tonight.” 
Diggins’ 31 points were the most scored by a freshman in Irish history, eclipsing the previ­ous high of 29 points held by Schrader. Schrader added 14 points and 11 rebounds, her sixth double-double of the sea­son. 
While pleased with the increased output on offense, McGraw said she was most impressed by the poise and maturity Diggins brought to the court. While possessing the rare ability to score at will, Diggins plays through the team’s offense, not her own. 
“She is wise beyond her years,” McGraw said. “She rec­ognized that she was doing a lot of scoring, and then you saw her trying to drive and look for the post presence to get everybody involved. She wants a team that everybody feels like they’re con­tributing, and she can make that happen.” 
Quick to defer any praise, Diggins said the crowd played a significant role in her success and Notre Dame’s emergence late in the first half. Diggins acknowledged the fans several times during the Irish comeback, who responded to her domi­nance with cheers all night. 
“It’s amazing we had the opportunity to play at home in the first two rounds,” Diggins said. “Our fans really came out and supported us. That sixth man was key tonight in really pumping us up. They were anx­ious to explode, so once we start­ed to run, the roof blew off the place.” 
The Irish travel to Kansas City to take on No. 3-seed Oklahoma in the Sweet 16 Sunday. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
son,” Coyne said. “There are still aspects of our game that 
Vandy 
we can continue to improve continued from page 20 upon.” Coyne also said the similar Coyne said this year’s strategies of Boston and Vanderbilt team will be as Vanderbilt will create an good as it has been in the past, advantage for the Irish since 
so  the Irish will  they  been  
have to step up.  exposed to that  
“[Vanderbilt] is  style and have  
pretty deadly on attack,” Coyne said. “They like to pack in on  “We haven’t seen our best performance so far this season.”  been success-ful. In terms of e x p e c t a t i o n s ,  
defense,  so  we  Coyne said hers  
will have to con­vert on the offensive end.”  Tracy Coyne Irish coach  are “the same as always: win.”  

Coyne said she is confident in her defense’s ability to shut down the strong Vanderbilt attack. 
This week in practice, the Irish have continued to build on the aspects of their game that were weaknesses early in the season, Coyne said. 
“We haven’t seen our best performance so far this sea­
“It’s a big game,” Coyne said. “There 
are different components to this season, and the Vanderbilt game is an important one.” 
The Irish will face off against the Commodores today at 2:30 
p.m. in Arlotta Stadium. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

Eagles 
continued from page 20 
Notre Dame on your own home field,” Marrone said. “It’s really good for team morale.” 
The Irish shut the Eagles down offensively in the first game of the day, a 9-0 rout that lasted only five innings. 
Junior Jody Valdivia pitched the first contest and earned her 13th straight win for the Irish. 
Offensively, the Irish took early control of the game. 
“They threw a couple of different pitchers at us, but we hit them all and scored in almost every inning, ” Marrone said. 
Junior Sadie Pitzenberger had three hits, including a triple, and senior Heather Johnson drove in four run­ners before the conclusion of the second game to lead the Notre Dame offense. 
In the second game, the Eagles fought back harder offensively, but Irish pitchers Brittany O’Donnell and Shannon Kelly held Eastern Michigan to three runs and five hits as the Irish won 9­3. 
O’Donnell earned the win, her fifth of the season, after giving up two hits in five innings of work. During that time the Irish were able to take a comfortable 9-0 lead. 
The two innings in relief by Kelly, a junior, marked her first appearance on the mound this season. 
“[The Eagles] were tough and scrappy,” Marrone said. “They don’t have big power hitters, but they find a way to score runs, whether it’s scoring bases and stringing hits together.” 

Though Eastern Michigan took an early lead, the Irish responded quickly with home runs by sophomore Kristina Wright and senior Christine Lux, her seventh of the season. 
“[Eastern Michigan] threatened until the very end,” Marrone said. “Our pitchers and defense did great, but they did a great job keeping us on our toes.” 
Next up, the Irish will play another doubleheader Wednesday at home against Toledo beginning at 4 p.m. 
“Weekday doubles headers are very tiring, they’re long days, but it’s always fun to play at home,” Marrone said. “That’s the reward for it.” 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


Wednesday, March 24, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports

Wednesday, March 24, 2010 page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Former Notre Dame players work out for scouts at Pro Day 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
National Football League scouts converged on the Loftus Sports Center Tuesday afternoon as 14 former Irish players worked out on Notre Dame’s Pro Day. 
Former Irish wide receiver Golden Tate drew plenty of atten­tion during his workouts. Tate, wearing golden shoes, performed the 60-yard shuttle in 11.67 sec­onds and ran a wide variety of routes during position-specific drills. He made most catches without incident, but had to dive for one ball and bobbled it twice, catching it before it hit the ground. 
Tate said after the event that he was happy with his perform­ance. 
“It was good to get out there and show the scouts that I can catch and run a little bit,” Tate said. 
Former Irish safeties Sergio Brown and Kyle McCarthy showed off their speed at the event, recording 40-yard dash times of 4.44 seconds and 4.52 seconds, respectively. 
The day began with players performing the 40-yard dash, various cone and agility drills and the 60-yard shuttle for scouts. 
Wideouts and running backs performed position-specific drills first, as Tate, Robby Parris and James Aldridge, as well as 2008 players David Grimes and Asaph Schwapp ran reps for the scouts. 
Next up were linebackers Scott Smith and Toryan Smith, fol­lowed by defensive back drills featuring Brown and McCarthy. Former safety Raeshon McNiel was also present, but injured his hamstring during the 40-yard dash and did not participate in the drills. 
Offensive linemen Paul Duncan, Sam Young and Eric Olsen and defensive lineman Morrice Richardson followed. 
After the workouts, several players lifted weights for scouts. 
Duncan, Richardson an Schwapp each recorded at least 30 repeti­tions at the bench press, with Schwapp recording the most at 34. 
Former Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen, who had surgery in January on his injured toe, was on hand for the workouts but did not participate. He will hold a separate Pro Day and throw for scouts on April 9. 
Also present were several cur-
see PRO DAY/page 17 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
How Sweet it is 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
During Notre Dame’s first-round victory over Cleveland State Sunday, freshman guard Skylar Diggins made a caree-low one field goal in four attempts. After the game, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said she wished Diggins would take more shots. 
What a difference a game can make. 
Diggins finished with a career-high 31 points on 13-for-21 shooting Tuesday night, leading No. 2-seed Notre Dame (29-5) to a second round victory over No. 10-seed Vermont. Diggins added a career-high seven steals and six assists to help secure a berth in the Sweet 16 in Kansas City. 
“I thought Skylar was absolute­ly terrific today,” McGraw said. “She came out from the tip and decided that we were going to the Sweet 16. She got us off to a great 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

Junior forward Becca Bruszewski drives to the basket during Notre Dame’s 84-66 win over see DIGGINS/page 18 Vermont in the second round of the NCAA Tournament Tuesday. 

ND SOFTBALL 
Irish open home slate withsweep 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame opened its home schedule by scoring 18 runs in a doubleheader sweep of Eastern Michigan, as the Irish posted wins of 9­0 and 9-3 at Melissa Cook Stadium Tuesday. 
“I thought we came out really strong today,” junior infielder Erin Marrone said. “It was nice to be able to score a lot of runs, score first and come out with a ton of energy.” 
After playing 20 consecu­tive games on the road to 
open the season, Marrone said the Irish (19 -5) were glad to be back home 
“We love our stadium and our fans, and I think for a lot of players, you really get to feel the spirit of playing for 
see EAGLES/page 18 
BASEBALL 

Bats come alive in home win 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish awoke from their long winter’s slumber against Ball State Tuesday with a breakout performance on offense, racking up 12 hits and in an 11-5 victory. 
“Part of it was hustling on and off the field, and part was being more aggressive on the bases early in the game and try to take the game to somebody rather than have them take it to us,” Irish coach Dave Schrage said. 
Notre Dame (8-11) was finally able to drive the ball rather than pop it up into the air, which Schrage said was key to their offensive performance. 
see OFFENSE/page 17 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Squad faces No. 19 Commodores at home 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a big overtime win over Boston last week­end, the No. 11 Irish will look to continue their winning streak against No. 19 Vanderbilt today. 
Although the Commodores (5-3) are a nonconference opponent, they are in the same national region as Notre Dame (4-1) and an important matchup in deter­mining seeding for the NCAA tournament. 
The Irish have been playing Vanderbilt for several years and have developed a strong rivalry, as both teams are typically ranked. 
Even though Vanderbilt has lost three games, those losses came against three top 10 opponents — No. 3 North Carolina, No. 6 Duke and No. 10 Stanford. They also have two wins against ranked opponents in No. 9 Boston and No. 14 Penn State. The Commodores will be a tough task for the Irish, as they have proven to be in years past. 
“We haven’t played them well for the last three years,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. “But we had a big win over them in the first round of the NCAA Tournament last year.” 
see VANDY/page 18 





