the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Pro-life faculty launch national group chapter 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
University Faculty for Life (UFL), a national organization, approved a chapter on Notre Dame’s campus this fall, the University announced last week. 
Notre Dame faculty and staff can now join the newly-formed group to engage in academic conversa­tion about pro-life issues. Fr. Wilson D. Miscamble will serve as the president of the Notre Dame chapter, and Daniel Philpott, a political science professor, will serve as vice president. 
Miscamble said the group would give faculty the opportunity to par­ticipate in moral issues and affirm the right to life at all stages. 
The national organization of UFL was founded in 1989 to promote research and dialogue among fac­ulty and staff who “respect the value of human life from its incep­tion to natural death,” according to a University press release. 
“Our goal is to foster research and put forth a pro-life position to educate the community about life issues,” Miscamble said. 
Notre Dame will host the nation­al conference for UFL on campus in June 2011, Miscamble said. 
“For this particular year I see it as a year of getting the chapter firmly established,” Miscamble said. “We will focus on meeting on a regular basis and doing the preparatory work for holding the UFL national conference.” 
Miscamble said the UFL chapter at Notre Dame would work on spiritual, academic and social lev­els. Members will support each 
other through prayer, invite speakers and academic discussion on life questions and host events that bring the membe rs together to 
talk about issues related to their pro-life stance. “Many of us have been individual members of the national organiza-

tion for some time,” Miscamble 
said. “What this marks is an effort 
for us to collaborate on campus.” The Notre Dame UFL chapter 
currently includes 25 formal mem­bers, Miscamble said. “One of my major objec­tives for the year is to increase member ­ship,” Miscamble said. “This 
organization is multidisciplinary so 
we can bring faculty together from 
multiple colleges.” Miscamble currently serves as 




By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
The number of visitors on campus during football games this season has been much greater than it was in 2009, and the Pittsburgh game weekend was no exception, Director of Game Day Operations Mike Seamon said. 
“The numbers are up because of the new energy with Coach Kelly and the team combined with being hospitable and opening the campus,” he said. 
Director of Notre Dame Security Police Phil Johnson said three people were 


Game weekend attendance increases 
arrested outside the stadi­um and two people inside for public intoxication. In addition, 35 people who were removed for violating stadium rules, mostly for impairment or possession of alcohol. 
“There were no citations issued by police for under age alcohol violation out­side the stadium,” Johnson said. 
Factors such as the rough­ly 5,800 people who walked through the Notre Dame Stadium tunnel on Friday led Game Day Operations to believe that the weekend was going to be busy, 
see GAME/page 5 

‘Quarter dogs’ return for midterms week 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
Sophomore John Hough remembers a time when The Huddle always sold hot dogs for a quarter after midnight. Those times are over, but this week, thanks to the Student Union Board, he can relive them. 
At the beginning of this school year, The Huddle raised the price of these midnight hot dogs, nicknamed “quarter dogs,” from 25 cents to 33 cents. 
“There was a lot of drama about it [the price change], and it was something students seemed to care about,” junior Kevin DeLaMontaigne said. 

Student Union Board (SUB) services programmers DeLaMontaigne and sophomore Jenny Yi arranged to subsidize hot dog prices from Sunday through Thursday and provide students such as Hough an opportunity to pay only one quarter for “quarter dogs” dur­ing midterms week. 
Yi said it was relatively easy to provide this service; it required approval from Huddle Management and a commitment on the part of SUB to pay the dif­ference in price for all hot dogs sold. 
“We figured there’d be lots of students in LaFortune this week, 
see QUARTER/page 5 


the chaplain for Notre Dame Right to Life, the student pro-life group on campus. He said events between the faculty and student pro-life groups will hopefully bring even more visibility to the pro-life cause at Notre Dame. 
“I think students will gain encouragement and support for their own efforts when they see that their faculty who might be a little bit older are still deeply com­mitted to this cause,” Miscamble said. “What I see occurring is indeed a close and cooperative relationship between the University Faculty for Life and the Notre Dame Right to Life, the stu­dent organization involved in the 
see FACULTY/page 4 


University tests new electric car 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 

In an effort to explore new sustainable energy options, the University added an electric car to its fleet of vehicles this semester. 
The Mitsubishi iMiev, an elec­tric car that seats four people, will be on loan from Mitsubishi Motors North America to Notre Dame this semester. Eaton Corporation is also providing three charging stations on cam­pus, according to a Notre Dame Office of Sustainability press release. 
“This is just the beginning of something good for campus,” said Erin Hafner, the Sustainability Program Manager for the Office of Sustainability. “It’s opening some doors for us to bring elec­tric cars to campus. It really wasn’t an option before.” 
This initial car is acting as a pilot test program, Hafner said. If successful, the University will look at adding electric cars to its fleet. 
“We’d like to integrate these into the fleet for travel,” she said. “We’d also like to inte­grate these into our mainte­nance fleet. There’s a wide array of uses.” 
The iMiev gets 100 miles to every charge, according to Mitsubishi’s website. It is also 
see ELECTRIC/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER ROTC completes training weekend page 3  Music under the radar page 10  Basketball media day page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Tuesday, October 12, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU DO ON SATURDAY TO C L BRATE DAYN ’S BIRTHDAY?

THE OBSERVER 








P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Laura McCrystal Mike Gotimer Kristen Durbin Chris Allen Emily Schrank Andrew Owens 
Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Ankur Chawla 
Photo Viewpoint 
Pat Coveney Ren Brauweiler 
OFFBEAT 

Ambulance stolen while paramedics treat patient 
CHICAGO – Bond was set at $50,000 for a 27-year­old Chicago man accused of stealing an ambulance over the weekend while two paramedics treated someone he apparently knew in the back. Chicago Fire Department spokesman Larry Langford said Jimmy McCoy alleged­ly jumped into the stopped ambulance and drove off with the emergency lights on. 
The paramedics then radioed that they’re ambu­lance had been stolen with them inside. 
Prosecutors told a hear­ing Sunday McCoy seemed to think he was driving his 
Brian Ward  Greg Dutcher  Caitlin Burke  Marisa Truong  Morgan Pino  Tommy Montalbano  
sophomore  senior  senior  senior  junior  junior  
Keenan  off campus  off campus  Farley  Ryan  Morrissey  

“Went to his “Wait, who’s “Studied with “Cheered on the “Went out with “By gazing at pre-game party Dayne?” Steph Lagree.” the Fighting the FunLovers.” my beautiful ... shout out to Irish to victory.” girlfriend Chase!” Maddie.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

diabetic friend to the hos­pital. 
In the Saturday incident, McCoy only made it a few blocks before a fire truck blocked the road. Police surrounded the ambulance and McCoy was arrested. 
Drunk man rescued after chasing goose into river 
WAUSAU, Wis. – Wausau rescued and arrested a drunken man who plunged into the Wisconsin River while chasing a one -legged goose. The 40-year-old Wausau man told officers he wanted to catch the bird and roast it. He said he took off his shirt and shoes Thursday after ­noon and jumped into the 
frigid water. Authorities said he was 
overcome by the cold water and had to be res­cued by firefighters. Police said the man had been drinking heavily before the stunt. 
The man was arrested on an outstanding war­rant for bail jumping. 
Witness Sergio Lopez works by the river. He said he often sees people jump in the water during hot summer days but rarely in October. 
Police told the Wausau Daily Herald that as far as they know, the goose is still on the loose. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 

The lecture “Identity, Legitimacy, Recognition: A Psychological Synthesis for Peace Research” will take place today at 4:15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies . Phillip Hammack, assistant professor of psychology at the University of California Sant Cruz, will deliver the lecture. It is free and open to the pub­lic. 
The Berges Lecture: “An Ethical Odyssey from Notre Dame to CEO” will be held today at 7 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business . Michael Cahill, president and CEO of Tower Financial, will deliver the lecture. It is free and open to the public. 
The College of Science will sponsor Astronomy Night today at 7:30 p.m. on Fieldhouse Mall. All Notre Dame students are invited to see Jupiter, the closest it has been to the earth in 50 years. The first 300 Notre Dame students will receive free t-shirts and doughnuts. 
The Center for Social Concerns will sponsor and International Summer Service Learning Program Information Session today at 8 p.m. in the McNeill Library of Geddes Hall. The informa­tion session will cover the application and selection processes and their time-frames, academic require­ments, orientation and follow­up requirements and a brief description of work sites. Past participants will also be avail­able to answer questions. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


74 57 HIGH 6662 6061
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

49 49 LOW 4242 4043 






Tuesday, October 12, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




ND grad competes for acting award 
Army ROTC trains in Michigan 

By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Tyler Langdon, a 2008 Notre Dame graduate, hopes that winning a 2010 Yahoo Hollywood Movie Award will jumpstart his acting career. 
Langdon is currently one of 10 nominees for Yahoo’s Hollywood Di scover Award, in which aspi ring actors sub­mit mono­logues for voters to view and vote on the Hollywood Movie Award website. 
“The award is for up-and­coming talent in Hollywood,” Langdon said. 
A resident of Dillon Hall while at Notre Dame, Langdon studied business and thought his performing career was over. 
“I did a lot of acting before I came to Notre Dame.” Langdon said, “I absolutely loved speech, but as fun as it was, I had to be practical, so I went to business school.” 
However, Langdon couldn’t shake the acting bug. After graduation, he moved to California to attend a manage­ment program through Hillstone Restaurant Group. 
“All the servers and cooks in the restaurant were actors and they were always talking about auditions and roles they had,” Langdon said. “Everything I had done before rushed back.” 
Langdon decided to pursue his dream and quit his restau­rant job after two months to begin auditioning for acting roles. 
“It takes a very long time to make it in this industry,” he said. “Most actors you recog­nize have been doing this for seven or eight years.” 
Even though his career has not followed a traditional path, Langdon said his parents support his decision to try and make it in the acting business. 

“My parents always support whatever I do that makes me happy as long as it brings respect to myself and my fami­ly,” Langdon said. “They just don’t want me to compromise myself for Hollywood.” 
His film credits include roles in “Pushing Daisies” and “The Pacific,” according to his web­site. He also hosted two differ­ent shows about Thai food. Langdon eventually hopes to act on a sitcom and work in both comedic and dramatic films. 
“I love the comedy on ‘The Office’ and ‘30 Rock,’ with more subtle humor and good writing and natural actors,” he said. 
Langdon recently landed a role for an upcoming movie about a man suffering from social anxiety disorder and his relationship with a female friend who studies his disor­der for her graduate work. 
“He’s just a really dynamic character,” Langdon said. 
The transition from acting on stage and for speech com­petitions was different and a challenge for Langdon. 
“The speech and debate gave me confidence, but it’s just so big,” Langdon said, “Acting teachers kept telling me to relax my face and think and play my emotions.” 
Langdon hopes that someday he could work with Leonardo DiCaprio, his favorite actor. 
“He’s a fantastic actor and has had some amazing roles,” Langdon said. 
While still in the restaurant business, DiCaprio came into the restaurant Langdon man­aged and the servers sent him out on the floor acting like a bus boy so he could see him. 
“I was nervous just cleaning the table next to him,” Langdon said. 
Online voting for the Yahoo Hollywood Movie Awards started on Oct. 5 and closes Thursday. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 



ND expert says Peace Prizewinnernosurprise 
Special to The Observer 
The awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to Chinese dissident Liu Xiaobao was expected, according to Peter Wallensteen, the University of Notre Dame’s Richard G. Starmann Sr. Research Professor of Peace Studies. Liu, a professor of liter­ature, is one of China’s most prominent human rights activists. He has been in prison since 2008 for publishing a political reform petition. 
According to the Norwegian Nobel Committee, Liu is the first person in China to receive the Nobel Peace Prize, and he is recognized for his sustained and nonviolent struggle for human rights in China. The Dalai Lama also received it, but for his peaceful struggle for Tibet, while outside the country. 
“This continues a tradition where the prize has been used to highlight peaceful struggles for human rights in authoritari­an societies,” Wallensteen said. “For example, it went to Shirin Ebadi from Iran in 2003, Aung San Suu Kyi from Burma in 1991, Andrei Sakharov from the Soviet Union in 1975, Albert Lutuli from South Africa in 1960, and Carl von Ossietzky in Nazi-Germany in 1935. 
“Several times, this use of the award resulted in crises between the Nobel committee and the regimes, most seriously perhaps with Nazi Germany,” Wallensteen said. 
The Chinese government reportedly is outraged over the award to Liu and has issued a statement saying that the award will damage Chinese relations with Norway. 


By MIKE BOCK 
News Writer 

While their fellow stu ­dents attended events on campus such as the pep rally and football game last weekend, Notre Dame ’s Army Reserve Officers ’ Training Corps (ROTC) members participated in a weekend of training exercis­
e s  a t  M i c h i g a n ’s  F o r t  
Cluster.  
The weekend  was  a  valu­ 

able experience for all members of the ROTC, espe­cially for the juniors as they prepare to attend “Leadership Development Assessment Course, ” the ROTC ’s biggest summer evaluation, said Jim Hasson, a Notre Dame senior and ROTC cadet. 
“The purpose of the train­
ing was to build basic military attribu tes among the underclass ­men and to further develop the leadership attributes of upperclass ­men, partic­ularly the juniors,” he said. 
Each grade level of ROTC partic­ipants was assigned a different role 
tactics that were to be used in the field. To build their 

“The purpose of the training was to build basic military attributes among the underclassmen and to further develop the leadership attributes of upperclassmen, particularly the juniors.” 
Jim Hasson Army ROTC cadet 
leadership skills, the junior class led the squads on field missions. The sophomores and the freshmen took part in the program led by the upperclass­men to learn important skills and leadership. 
Hasson said the weekend included train­ing exercises with individual missions for each cadet to complete, such 

w i t h i n t h e as day and night navigation. 
training session, Hasson During the night naviga­said. tion operation, Hasson said The senior class taught each ROTC cadet received classes on basic skills and an eight-digit grid location 
at 10 p.m. For the next three hours, each cadet was expected to navigate to five different grid locations using only a compass and map. 
Hasson said the students also completed squad level tactics training, which involved groups of 11 or 12 cadets working together on skills such as movement and contact, squad attack, reconnaissance operations and ambush attacks. 
Hasson said the training weekend was successful overall. 
“Over the course of the weekend, all participants showed great developments in both their tactical skills and leadership styles while keeping a positive atti ­tudes,” he said. 
Contact Mike Bock at mbock@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 12, 2010 




SMC pushes gift campaign 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
To encourage students to make their class gift and edu­cate them about the benefits of donating to Saint Mary’s College, the Class Gift Campaign (CGC) hosted its second annual launch party Monday. 
The event was held in the West Wing of the Noble Family Dining Hall during dinner hours. 
Molly Gorszczyk, CGC co-chair, said the event was created to draw attention to the mission of the CGC as well as allow stu­dents to meet and get to know members of the campaign. 
“The launch party is pretty much just a way for us to get publicity up of who we are and what we do,” Gorszczyk said. “It’s the first chance all of our girls get for the year to make their donation of class gift. It’s pretty much the starting of our season of campaigning and fundraising and trying to get the class gifts.” 
Gorszczyk said the event invit­ed students to enjoy themselves while learning about the CGC. Students were also encouraged to make their donation to the CGC for their class. 
According to Gorszczyk, the campaign works during the aca­demic year to earn money for each class’ senior gift. Each class decides which gift it would like to donate to the College. 
“The class gift campaign is a student organization, and we are the ones that encourage raising all the money to give Saint Mary’s that each class gives when they graduate,” she said. “Along with that we encourage the importance of philanthropy and giving back to Saint Mary’s. [Saint Mary’s College] just [relies] on giving back so much and they encour­age it so much that we try to encourage our students to give back as well.” 

According to Gorszczyk, dur­ing the launch party, students had the opportunity to break open a piñata, play corn hole, listen to music and meet with members of the CGC. 
“People can come make their class gift, they can ask us ques­tions, they can get to know us,” Gorszczyk said. “[The Launch Party is] kind of like a meet and greet type deal so they [stu­dents] can actually get to know what the Class Gift Campaign is.” 
The CGC also plans to offer other events throughout the aca­demic year. Gorszczyk said the CGC will offer Give Back Night at Hacienda on Oct. 25. Karaoke Idol, an event that allows stu­dents to sing karaoke in front of faculty and staff judges, will also be held on Nov. 18. 
Gorszczyk said she hopes to bring awareness to the impor­tance of the CGC. 
“I think it’s really important just because we have a tradition that part of our gift to give back is a scholarship of some form or scholarship money,” she said. “That’s really important just because so many girls are on scholarship. Ninety-four per­cent of the student body right now is on scholarship. So if we can encourage girls to give back now that would also encourage them to give back after they graduate.” 
The CGC doesn’t just ask for donations from juniors and sen­iors, instead, they encourage first-year students to donate money as well. 
“We work really hard and start looking freshman year to raise a gift so you can give something amazing back to Saint Mary’s to thank them for the amazing time you had here,” Gorszczyk said. “Also, you try to raise the pride of Saint Mary’s that you have in your four years and beyond after you graduate and so you’re always proud to be a Saint Mary’s girl and you’re so proud of your school.” 
The CGC asks that students donate whatever amount they feel comfortable giving, but also encourages each student to donate the amount of their class year, Gorszczyk said. 
“We are encouraging all stu­dents to try to at least give their class year, so a senior would give $20.11, juniors would give $20.12,” Gorszczyk said. “But they are free to give as much as they want, and we appreciate everything they give and we understand that everybody’s sit­uation is a little different so what they can give might not be the same as others.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
proceeding on an issue that can be polarizing and ran-


Faculty 

corous in national conversa­continued from page 1 tion.” 
Other faculty members Philpott, who joined UFL in serving in the Notre Dame July 2010 and will serve as UFL chapter include Program the vice president of the of Liberal Studies professor Notre Dame chapter, said his Walter Nicgorski as secre­
work with the Human Rights Defense Fund moved him to work for human dignity and the protec­tion of the unborn. 
“Notre Dame is a university that has a strong commit­ment to teach­ing social jus­tice in the 
“As scholars, we share a very strong commitment to reasoning and to cool, careful thought in dialogue.” 
Daniel Philpott professor political science 

tary-treasurer. Engineering professor Craig Lent and Elizabeth Kirk, associate direc­tor of the Center for Ethics and Culture, will serve as mem­bers of the chapter’s exec­utive board. 
UFL member­ship also 
classroom,” Philpott said. includes non-Catholic institu­“And the killing of the tions and faculty members, 
unborn is the largest human rights violation in the world today.” 
The UFL defends the right to life from concep ­tion to natural death and par­ticularly works on the issues of abortion, infan­ticide and euth anasia, Philpott said. 
“As scholars, we share a very strong commit­
“The UFL itself does not have a religious affliation, but obviously there is a very close resonance with the mission of a Catholic university and protecting the right to life.” 
Daniel Philpott professor political science 

but Philpott said Notre Dame, as a Catholic uni ­versity, natu ­rally fit into the organiza ­tion. 
“The UFL itself does not have a reli ­gious affilia ­tion,” Philpott said. “But obvi­ously there is a very close reso­nance with the 
m i s s i o n  o f  a  
C a t h o l i c  u n i - 
v e r s i t y  a n d  

ment to reasoning and to protecting the right to life.” cool, careful thought in dia­logue,” Philpott said. “This is Contact Megan Doyle at the spirit in which we are mdoyle11@nd.edu 


Tuesday, October 12, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 

Electric 
continued from page 1 
into account, the iMiev still releases only 30 percent as much carbon dioxide as do its tial of electric vehicles as we strive to reduce our energy consumption and carbon foot­print on campus,” Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves said in the press release. 

The car will be on display at 
gasoline-pow­ered mini-car counterparts. 
“Through our collaboration with Notre Dame, Eaton is paving the way for the develop­ment of the infrastructure leading to the adoption and expanded use of electric vehi­cles,” Jerry Whitaker, pres­ident of Eaton’s El ectrical S e c t o r, 

“The project will help us to further understand the potential of electric vehicles as we strive to reduce our energy consumption and carbon footprint on campus.” 
John Affeck-Graves Executive Vice President 
public events and promotions for the Office of Sustainability, Hafner said. These promo­tions include football Friday afternoons at Irish Green, where the car is stationed next to a table with informa­tion about elec­tric cars. 
Diff erent University departments will also drive 
Americas Region, said in the press release. 
This is not the first time the University has partnered with Eaton Corporation; the corpo­ration helped the University with Stinson-Remick Hall. 
“The project will help us to further understand the poten­the car, so students will see it around campus, Hafner said. It will have a Notre Dame-themed car design similar to the three Smart cars that the University purchased this year. 

Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
Green was held. Seamon said ticipation also continued this the feedback from campus weekend with on-site trans-


Game 

has been positive in regards portation, Seamon said. continued from page 1 to this new tra-Student clubs 
dition, which raised money 
“With the big nature 

Seamon said. started the by giving 1,400 
“When people could fore-weekend of the of the Pitt game and golf cart rides cast the weather earlier in Michigan game. the weather, it was a and 220 pedal the week, coming off a big “I thought it cab rides. 
hugely succesful

win against Boston College, was a success-“We had a lot and Pittsburgh being a big ful evening,” he weekend.” of people using game, you could tell it would said. “It seems the pedal cabs be an exciting weekend,” he we have gotten and the golf 
Mike Seamon 

said. a good carts, which 
director

Seamon also said atten -response from shows that a 
Game Day Operations 

dance at the pep rally got a the students.” lot of people 
boost, with 14,214 fans Attendance watching former receiver and energy on campus during 
Golden Tate provide some inspiration for the team’s vic­tory. 
“It was a perfect evening in terms of weather,” he said. “There was just a great spirit. It was a good way to kick off the weekend.” 
This was the the actual game day was also 

“It was a perfect 
very encourag­evening in terms of ing, Seamon weather. There was said, and con ­
tributed to the 

just a great spirit. It 
victory of the 

[the pep rally] was a weekend as a 
good way to kick off whole. “People had a
the weekend.” 
good spirit and attitude, ” he Mike Seamon said. “With the director big nature of the Pitt game 
Game Day Operations 
and the weath­er, it was a 

second pep rally in which a hugely successful weekend.” student walkover to Irish The theme of high fan par-
were here enjoying game day,” he said. 
Seamon said Game Day Operations has been working hard to consistently deliver a special experience for visi­tors to Fighting Irish football games by providing unique opportunities on campus that only Notre Dame can offer. 
“Our goal for everyone who is visiting campus is for them to experience everything that is wonderful about Notre Dame, be it the athletics, the academics, faith or the social life,” he said. “These are sig­nature weekends for us.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


Quarter 
continued from page 1 

and this would brighten up their days and give them something to look forward to,” Yi said. 
DeLaMontaigne said he hoped that by specifically choosing a week when many students have midterm exams, the low-priced hot dogs might serve as a “stress reliever.” 
Both Yi and DeLaMontaigne were optimistic about the week-long event, and hope to repeat it sometime in the future. When and if this would occur depends in large part on student response. 
“If people are into it and if the number of hot dogs sold goes up, then it shows people like it,” DeLaMontaigne said. 
Hough is supportive of the sub­sidy and was disappointed when the price was raised, he said. He purchased the hot dogs approxi­mately twice per week last year, but Sunday was his first time back after the price increase. Another student taking advantage of the reduced price, sophomore Jessie Bretl, echoed Hough’s sentiments. 
“A quarter is easy, but who has 33 cents in their pocket?” said Bretl. 
Adam Hill, The Huddle manag­er on duty Sunday night, said the price decrease did not seem to yield a greater number of hot dog purchases Sunday night. 
“The volume is about the same as any other night. There doesn’t seem to be a real difference,” Hill said. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 



page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, October 12, 2010 



NYCpolicearrestninthsuspectinanti-gaybeatings 
outraged responses from city with a box cutter, prosecutors 
Associated Press 

and state leaders and gay advo-said. David Rivera hit him in 
NEW YORK — Police on cates. the head with a shaving can Monday arrested the ninth and Mayor Michael Bloomberg and ringleader Idelfonzo final suspect in the brutal called the Mendez shoved attacks on four people that attacks “com-the wooden han­authorities believe were pletely unaccept-dle of a plunger touched off because gang mem-able” in pre-into the teen’s bers thought one of their pared remarks “A lot of these gang rectum, prose-recruits was gay. before a Monday cutors said. “Do 
subcultures are
Ruddy Vargas-Perez, 22, was night dinner for you like this?” arrested by members of the Parents, pretty homophobic” he asked, Bronx violent felony squad at a Families and according to the relative’s house after his attor-Friends of criminal com-
David C. Brotherton 
ney had told authorities he Lesbians and plaint. 
sociology chair 
would be surrendering to police Gays. Through their 
John Jay College of 
on Tuesday. He previously He added: “As interrogation, failed to show up as promised. I said over the Criminal Justice they discovered 
Vargas-Perez and eight others weekend, the another 17-year­were accused of robbery, perpetrators of old they knew harassment and sexual abuse the abuse and also had an after the Oct. 3 attacks. Police torture in the encounter with say he participated in at least Bronx will be spared no mercy,” the man, police said. When he one of the attacks along with he said. came to the apartment around the others from his street gang, Three of the gang members 8:30 the next evening, they the Latin King Goonies. saw their 17-year-old recruit pounced, attacking him as well, 
Vargas-Perez was in custody coming out of an apartment officials said. at a police precinct Monday. His occupied by a 30-year-old man While the other teen was attorney’s name known through-there, Mendez invited the 30­wasn’t known. out the neighbor-year-old over, claiming there 
“He’s innocent hood as “La was a party and asking him to 
“As I said over the 
of all the Reina.” It was bring alcohol, authorities said. 
weekend, the 
charges,” his well-known that The man met up with Mendez aunt, Nancy perpetrators of the the man was gay, at the corner bodega and he Perez, said in and the three walked with him, unsuspecting, 
abuse and torture in 
Spanish when wanted to know into the apartment where he’d 
the Bronx will be
reached by why the teen was be tortured for hours by all phone on spared no mercy.” at his apartment, nine suspects, who forced the Monday night. authorities said. malt liquor down his throat, “He was raised They took the prosecutors said. 
Michael Bloomberg
in a loving fami-teen to a nearby Prosecutors said Rivera tied 
mayor 
ly.” abandoned the man to achair with ametal 
She denied he New York City apartment they chain and blindfolded him. was a member used as a hang-From there, he was beaten of a gang and out and for par-and sodomized with a small said her nephew works in con-ties at about 3:30 a.m. Oct. 3 baseball bat, according to the struction. and beat him until he confessed criminal complaint. 
The beatings in the Bronx, he had a sexual encounter with During the attack, they took and the recent string of anti-the man, police said. the man’s keys and went to his gay attacks and teen suicides “You crazy, you lost your home, where they beat up and elsewhere attributed to homo-mind,” gang member Nelson bound his older brother and phobic bullying, have drawn Falu said, as he sliced the teen stole $1,000 in cash and a TV 

Study says students drinkmorewhenabroad 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE — Students who go abroad while in college are likely to increase or even dou­ble their alcohol intake while they’re away, a new study has found. 
Drinking increased most dramatically in Europe, Australia and New Zealand, the study by researchers at the University of Washington found. Students reported drinking more when they per­ceived their fellow travelers were drinking more heavily, and those who planned to make drinking part of their cultural immersion did so. 
The study published in the current issue of Psychology of Addictive Behaviors looked only at drinking habits of stu­dents who went abroad from the University of Washington, but UW graduate student Eric Pedersen said he would expect to get similar results at other universities. 
“I don’t think this is just a UW problem,” said the psy­chology student, who noted, however, that his study sam­ple included more women than the national average for studying abroad and the stu­dents he looked at were more diverse ethnically than the national average. 
His research did not pin­point why students drink more while they study abroad, but the results don’t necessarily indicate binge drinking. Pedersen says a drink or so each night with dinner could add up to the 10 drinks a week European visitors reported on average. 
“In general drinking is an issue on college campuses. When you take that and put it in a foreign country there’s potential for more conse­quences,” Pedersen said. He noted, however, that most stu­dents who study overseas, including those who drink, do not get in trouble while they’re abroad. 
Of the several thousand University of Washington stu­dents who study abroad each year, 177 answered a ques­tionnaire before they went away and when they returned. 
On average, those students doubled their drinking while abroad, but most returned to an average of three to five drinks a week when they returned to Seattle. A subset of students who traveled to the Middle East and other places where drinking is not as prevalent reported their intake decreased while abroad. 
Students who were less than the legal drinking age in the United States increased their drinking while abroad by about 170 percent, the study found. The overall increase was about 105 percent. 
from their apartment, prosecu­tors said. 
Eight of the suspects were arraigned Sunday but didn’t enter pleas. Two attorneys, Paul Horowitz and Fred Bittlingmeyer, represented the eight at the hearing but didn’t expect to represent all of them through the legal process. Their families have said they are innocent. 
The attacks, while vicious, aren’t surprising in the world of outlaw machismo, where being gay is a powerful taboo and broken rules can have violent consequences, experts on gang culture said. Experts said it’s likely the 30-year-old would never have been attacked if he hadn’t been in contact with their recruit. 

“A lot of these gang subcul­tures are pretty homophobic,” said David C. Brotherton, a youth gang expert and chair­man of the sociology depart­ment at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice. “And some of them, they definitely have, the proper gangs have rules that don’t permit anybody in the group to be gay.” 


Tuesday, October 12, 2010 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 


Democrats criticize Paladino 

Associated Press 
ALBANY, N.Y. — The tea party movement was born in anger over the recession and the Obama administration’s bailouts, and built largely on a platform of lower taxes and smaller government. But some of its candidates are getting tripped up on social issues. 
In New York, Carl Paladino, the tea party-backed Republican candidate for gov­ernor, caused a furor among Democrats when he said over the weekend that children shouldn’t be “brainwashed” into thinking homosexuality is acceptable. 
In Colorado, GOP Senate nominee Ken Buck has tried to deflect questions about his stance against abortion rights. In Delaware, Senate candidate Christine O’Donnell has come under fire over the conserva­tive religious views she espoused as a TV commenta­tor, including preaching against the evils of masturba­tion. 
And in Nevada, Senate can­didate Sharron Angle, a Southern Baptist, has called herself a faith-based politi­cian. She opposes abortion in all circumstances, including rape and incest, and doesn’t believe the Constitution requires the separation of church and state. Her oppo­nent, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, seeks to portray her as outside mainstream America. 
One by one, tea party chal­lengers have veered away from the issues of taxes and spending -or in some cases were pushed off message, either by the media or by the Democrats, who have tried to portray the insurgents not as populist alternatives to the mainstream GOP but as Republican regulars. 
“It is clear that the Democrats and many of their allies in the media will attack the Republicans for being ‘too extreme,’” William Mayer, an associate professor of political science at Northeastern University, wrote in a position paper this month. 
Alan Abramowitz, a politi­cal science professor at Emory University in Atlanta, said his research shows tea party activists are over­whelmingly conservative Republicans. Rather than an outside alternative to the GOP, he said, the tea party is a movement from within the Republican Party’s most active members. 

“My feeling has been that social issues were always an important component of the tea party movement all along,” Abramowitz said. 
He said candidates have been questioned on their social views by reporters and by Democrats more now that they emerged as GOP nomi­nees: “There’s more attention to it now, now that they are actually running their general election campaigns.” 
Some tea party candidates are trying to moderate their social views or deflect atten­tion from them back to the economy. 
In Denver, Buck is challeng­ing first-term Sen. Michael Bennet and opposes abortion even in cases of rape and incest. He endorsed a state constitutional amendment that would give fetuses consti­tutional rights, then withdrew his support after doctors and lawyers pointed out it would also ban some types of fertili­ty treatments and emergency contraception. 
“Democrats see this as an opportunity to discredit Ken Buck, but I think most people are smart enough to know one person isn’t going to be able to do away with Roe v. Wade,” said Bobbie Chiles, president of the South Platte Republican Women’s Club. 
In Kentucky, tea party Republican Rand Paul, a can­didate for Senate, opposes abortion, same-sex marriage and a proposed mosque near ground zero in New York City. But he doesn’t talk about it much. 
“I say the top three issues of the tea party movement are the debt, the debt and the debt,” Paul said in a recent campaign stop to a group dedicated to smaller govern­ment. 
But in May, just hours after the political novice won a landslide primary victory, he took heat for a rambling interview in which he expressed misgivings about the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and appeared to suggest that businesses be allowed to deny service to blacks without fear of federal interference. 
Paul scrambled for damage control, issuing a statement saying, “I believe we should work to end all racism in American society and staunchly defend the inherent rights of every person.” 
In Alaska, tea party candi­date Joe Miller says he is “unequivocally pro-life,” and also opposes hate crime laws as violations of free-speech and equal protection under the Constitution. 
In New York, Paladino spent Monday’s Columbus Day Parade, a staple for politi­cians seeking votes in New York City, fending off a stream of criticism from Democrats for his comments the night before to a group of Orthodox Jewish leaders. 
“That’s not how God creat­ed us,” Paladino said Sunday of homosexuality, “and that’s not the example that we should be showing our chil­dren.” 
He added that children who later in life choose to marry people of the opposite sex and raise families would be “much better off and much more suc­cessful.” 
“I don’t want them to be brainwashed into thinking that homosexuality is an equally valid and successful option,” he said. 
Paladino’s Democratic opponent for governor, New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo, called Paladino’s comments “reck­less and divisive ... (the) worst cynical politics,” espe­cially since they come as New York City police investigate reports that three men were tortured in a night of anti-gay bias in the Bronx. 
“It is repugnant to the con­cept of what New York is,” Cuomo said Monday at the parade. “We celebrate our diversity.” 
State Sen. Thomas Duane, an openly gay Democrat, said he was “enraged” by Paladino’s “despicable rheto­ric, which does cause people to hate themselves and com­mit suicide.” 

Senior citizens prepare for Social Security freeze 
Dawson will buy cheap 
Associated Press 

whiskey instead of his beloved 
BOCA RATON, Fla. — Seniors Canadian Club. prepared to cut back on every-“For people who have thing from food to charitable worked their whole life and donations to whiskey as word tried to scrimp and save and spread Monday that they will try to provide for themselves,” have to wait until at least 2012 said Baldwin, a 63-year-old to see their Social Security retired teacher, “it’s difficult to checks increase. see that support system might 
The government is expected not sustain you.” to announce this week that Baldwin and her husband more than 58 million Social mapped out their retirements, Security recipients will go carefully calculating their through a second straight year income based on their pen-without an increase in monthly sions and Social Security benefits. This year was the checks. Trouble is, they first without expected an an increase annual cost-since automat-of-li ving ic adjustments increase. for inflation “They’ve got this idea “When we started in 
that they’ve got to save cut back, 
1975. we’re cutting 
money and basically they

“I think it’s back on disgusting, ” want to take it out of the niceti es,” 
said Paul people that will give Baldwin said. 
McNeil, 69, a “But there 
them the least

retired state are other worker from resistance.” people that Warwick, R.I., don’t have who said his anything to 
Paul McNeil 

food and utili-cut back on. 
Retired State Worker 
ty costs have gone up, but his income has not. He lamented decisions by law­makers that he said do not favor seniors. 
“They’ve got this idea that they’ve got to save money and basically they want to take it out of the people that will give them the least resistance,” he said. 
Cost-of-living adjustments are automatically set by a measure adopted by Congress in the 1970s that orders raises based on the Consumer Price Index, which measures inflation. If inflation is negative, as in 2009 and 2010, payments remain unchanged. 
Still, seniors like McNeil said they’ll be thinking about the issue when they go to vote, and experts said the news comes at a bad time for Democrats already facing potentially big losses in November. Seniors are the most loyal of voters, and their support is especially They’re cut­

ting back on 
food and 
shelter.” 

Many at St. Andrews said the cost-of-living decision won’t affect who they vote for next month. But seniors tied the Social Security issue to what they see as a larger societal problem with debt, entitlements and hopeful­ness for the future. 
“I’m kind of glad in a way,” Stella Wehrly, an 86-year-old retired secretary, said of the freeze. “One thing depends on the other and when people aren’t working there’s not enough peo­ple feeding into the Social Security system.” 
Wehrly and her husband, Hank, said curtailing government spending is necessary to main­tain the Social Security system. 
“We have a generation now that we’re not going to leave a very good legacy for,” she said. 
Jack Dawson, 77, said the freeze is the right move consider­ing the state of the government 
and the 
American 
economy. 

“Who would 
important dur-be surprised 
“One thing depends on

ing midterm what’s hap-elections, the other and when pened?” he when turnout people aren’t working asked. “I feel 
is generally this is the 
there’s not enough people 

lower. right decision 
“If you’re feeding into the Social in light of the the ruling Security system.” malaise.” party, this is More than not the sort of 58.7 million 
Stella Wehrly 

thing you want people rely 
Retired Secretary 

to have hap-on Social 
pening two weeks before an election,” said Andrew Biggs, a former deputy com­missioner at the Social Security Administration and now a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. 
At St. Andrews Estates North, a Boca Raton retire­ment community, seniors largely took the news in stride, saying they don’t blame Washington for the lack of an increase. Most are also collect­ing pensions or other income, but even so, they prepared to tighten their belts. 
Bette Baldwin won’t be able to travel or help her children as much. Dorcas Eppright will give less to charity. Jack Security 

checks that 
average 
$1,072 monthly. It was the primary source of income for 64 per­cent of retirees who got bene­fits in 2008; one-third relied on Social Security for at least 90 percent of their income. 
At the Phoenix Knits yarn shop in Phoenix, 73-year-old owner Pat McCartney said she already worries about paying for utilities, groceries and gas. Not having the increase makes her worry even more. 
“If I have any major expense, I don’t know what I’ll do,” McCartney said while helping customers with their knitting. “I live on Social Security.” 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, October 12, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Cravin’ more... 

I recently picked up a copy of Scholastic, partially out of pity for seeing them idle in the dining hall for so long. Of the few articles I read, there was one dis­cussing the University of Notre Dame Class of 2014 Facebook group, 
Ankur Chawla 
expressing the writer’s qualms 

Assistant 
with one particu-

Scene Editor 
lar upperclass­man. This col­umn is a defense of that man, the myth, the legend. 
Enter Cravin Moorehed. 

Although Cravin is a fictional being, as far as the masterminds behind Facebook are concerned he’s just as real as you and your friends. He is just another array of data, a picture, a name, a list of friends, activities and most importantly, groups. During finals week last semester, Cravin and his creators joined the Notre Dame Class of 2014 Facebook group. The group was full of young freshmen, eager to form the Facebook bond with other future Domers. 
A freshman advice column was created on the discussion board by these devious upperclassmen as a Steven Colbert-esque guide to life at Notre Dame. (If you’re bored while studying for midterms, I sug­gest reading through it for a good laugh.) The freshmen were naive at first and asked legitimate questions. The upper­classmen treated these questions with as much respect as Simon Cowell treated William Hung and that guy who sang “Pants on the Ground.” After Cravin post­ed a few clever comments, the freshmen indeed began “lookin’ like fools with their pants on the ground.” 
The playful banter and antics of Cravin and his gang were welcomed and praised by those more down to earth, though some felt the need to tell everyone that Cravin was a big phony. This fact was undoubtedly obvious to everyone other than those who tried pointing it out. Cravin was just providing a funny envi­ronment for the freshmen to get to know what life at Notre Dame might be like; he wasn’t doing any real harm, at least not initially. 
The Facebook fanatics took the real blow when the upperclassmen managed to weasel their way into making Cravin the sole administrator of the group. At this point he began sending distasteful, albeit funny messages and videos to 1,858 members of the freshman class. 
To anyone who was offended by Cravin’s antics, maybe you should take a step back and re-evaluate your frequent­ed websites. Heaven forbid anyone attack your Facebook fundamentals, it might disrupt who and what you are as a human. We spend hours displaying our every move to people we hardly know. How many of your Facebook friends do you actually talk to regularly or even at all? Who cares if the kid you met at Domerfest likes when he accomplishes something before the microwave hits :00? I can guarantee you that he doesn’t pause for a moment when you ask for help with Fast Money on Family Feud. The problem is that Facebook has become how we define ourselves. What would you be without your seven albums from fresh­man year? 
Now that I’m done ranting, I’ve got to go update my Twitter. I’m up to 20 follow­ers ... OK, only 18. But still I am eagerly waiting for the unsuspecting class of 2015’s group to be formed because I am indeed cravin’ more Cravin Moorehed. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 

The new Civil War 
There are, in the perpetual war over abortion, two myths. 
The first myth is that told by the pro-choice camp: Pro-life partisans, they insist, seek to control women. Without access to legal abortion, they 
reason, women will be forced to actual- Dan Sportiello  
ly bear their chil- Bound  
dren — who will, of  Variables  
course, need care  
for decades to  

come. In becoming mothers, therefore, women will become housewives — kept from meaningful careers so that they can bear their men many sons: Their lives will be, as were the lives of their mothers, spent utterly in vacuuming rugs, pressing shirts and cooking pot roasts. To respect women as our equals, insist pro-choice partisans, requires correcting the system­atic injustice inherited from our forefathers 
— indeed, inherited from nature. To do otherwise is crass manipulation. 
The second myth is that told by the pro-life camp: Pro-choice partisans, they insist, seek to control women. With access to legal abortion, they reason, women have no claim on the fathers of their children — who will, of course, suggest termination. In not becoming mothers, therefore, women will effectively become concubines — kept from meaningful relationships so that they can remain sexually available to their men: Their lives will be, as the lives of their mothers were not, spent utterly in exploitive relationships that grant them nothing in social or economic legitimacy. To respect women as our equals, insist pro-life partisans, requires taking them seriously as our partners in parenthood — indeed, as our partners in life. To do otherwise is crass manipulation. 
It is tempting to reject both myths as hys­terical propaganda — tempting, but too quick. Of course, those of us who are mere foot soldiers in the perpetual war do not think in these terms: those who stage protests, hold marches and write newspa­per columns — for whichever side — com­mit themselves to the freedom, not the enslavement, of women. The motivations of the wealthy and powerful elites behind each movement are less clear — though it is perhaps paranoia to attribute their 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
actions to calculating misogyny. But moti­vations do not tell the entire story. 
During the American Civil War, Northerners took themselves to be fighting for the integrity of their nation and the freedom of all men to live on their own terms; Southerners took themselves to be fighting for the integrity of their way of life and the freedom of all states to order themselves as they saw best. And indeed, this perspective — the motivational one — is legitimate. But also legitimate is the soci­ological perspective: The American Civil War was, in the end, a conflict about how elites could best manipulate the masses — how labor could be most efficiently extract­ed from laborers and put to the service of society. Northerners held — or might as well have held — that the most efficient way to extract this labor was by the system of wage slavery — that is, of industry; Southerners held — or might as well have held — that the most efficient way to extract this labor was by the system of chattel slavery — that is, of agriculture. The American Civil War was, in this sense, a war regarding the future economic ordering of American society, a war over the most efficient way to wring sweat from the brow — and, in asking this question, the war also answered it: The North defeated the South precisely because its economic ordering was the more produc­tive by far. It is not coincidence that the newly industrial United States was able, over the next century, to dominate merely agricultural nations around the world. 
The perpetual war between pro-choice and pro-life camps differs from the American Civil War only in its matter and its duration, not in its structure: It is, from a sociological perspective, a debate about how men can best manipulate women — how fertility and labor can be most effi­ciently extracted from women and put to the service of society. It is tempting to reject both the pro-choice and pro-life myths as hysterical propaganda — but, from a socio­logical perspective, both are true. 
This does not mean, again, that anyone on either side of the perpetual war actually thinks in these terms: Women are numer­ous in both camps, and it verges on absurdity to think that they are advocating their own manipulation. This does not change, however, what that society has witnessed the triumph of both camps — first, before 1973, the pro-life, and then, after 1973, the pro-choice: Under the for­mer regime, women were indeed often housewives, forced by the necessity of motherhood into lifetimes of cleaning, laundering, cooking and child-rearing; under the latter regime, women are indeed free to look significantly beyond homemak­ing for employment — but, at the same time, they fall into cycles of empty, exploitative relationships that prevent many of them from realizing marriage and family — goods that their mothers obtained as a matter of course. Neither the pro-choice nor the pro-life camps think in terms of how to best manipulate women into offering more of their resources to society, but this does not change the fact that this is — from a sociological perspec­tive — exactly what they are debating. 
It goes without saying that the liberation of women is linked to the sexual revolution, the rise of abortion and the contraceptive pill, and the breakdown of marriage and the family. This point has been made before. The problem, it seems, is the social framework that establishes this link — the same social framework that establishes the link between the liberation of slaves from the farm and their re-enslavement on the assembly line. In choosing between the industrial and the agrarian economic orders, one should not have to make the choice between two varieties — and rather sinister varieties at that — of enslavement. Similarly, in choosing between the pro-choice and the pro-choice regimes, one should not have to make the choice between two varieties — and rather sinis­ter varieties at that — of sexual manipula­tion. If some social framework forces this choice upon one, one ought to reject the choice — that is, one ought to reject the framework. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his third year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. Listen to his radio show on Thursdays at 2 p.m. on WVFI. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Our heroes are people and peopleare flawed. Don’t let that taint the thing you love.” 
Randy K. Milholland Webcomic pioneer 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A misery is not to be measuredfrom the nature of the evil, but from the temper of the sufferer.” 
Joseph AddisonEnglish poet 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Tuesday, October 12, 2010 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A quiet sacred place 
As I watched the Notre Dame claim a victory, I could not help but think of Coach Weis and his wife Maura, Charlie Jr. and sweet Hannah. I was watching the game with my precious son and his wonderful neigh­bors at Hannah and Friends Farm in the beautiful Eck Rec Facility. My son just recently became a resident there this summer. 
My autistic son will never graduate from Notre Dame like I did, but he graduated to becoming independent at the Jon Bon Jovi home with support from Mosaic staff and Hannah and Friends staff. Having autism, a communication disorder and auditory processing diffi­culties, he greets each new day with enthusiasm and hope. My son is my champion. I am proud of his many accomplishments at his ripe age of 22. He has become a leader, and helps his friends at the Day programs at Hannah and Friends — a quiet sacred place not far from campus, where miracles happen daily. This is one place every student needs to visit before they graduate from the University of Notre Dame. 
Come and see the legacy the Weis family left. A place where angels walking the earth are respected, cele­brated and loved unconditionally. Come and say hello to the welcoming residents — they will make your heart smile. When you leave, you can say a prayer at the grotto of Mother Mary donated by the Golic family. I will never forget the legacy the Weis family left us, and when my time comes to meet my Almighty Maker, I know my son will be taken care of. 
Until then, it’s just 2.8 miles away to visit my favorite hero. 
Katherine Robinson Coleman 
alumna 
Class of 1978 
Oct. 11 



Cemetery of the unborn 
My thanks to the students responsible for the white crosses on South Quad commemorating the unborn children who are killed each day in our nation by abortion. You are to be commended for reminding us all what a tragedy abortion is. 
It’s deeply inspiring to those of my generation to wit­ness student-initiated efforts to make our culture aware that the right to life is the human and civil rights issue of our age. You of your generation are now entrusted with steering our nation to more selfless val­ues than did our generation. “A child shall lead us ... “ 
A building dedication brought me to campus where I saw the crosses and the little pink and blue flags rep­resenting the 3,500 girls and boys aborted each day in our country — more human lives taken every day than were taken by the terrorists on 9/11. 
Attending the building dedication was a justice of the United States Supreme Court, who also walked past your Cemetery of the Unborn. When you have the courage to stand up for eternal values, you never know whom you might influence. 
While some actions cause scandal, you, by your faithfulness, have given us an edifying example of what our Creator calls us to be: light, in a world of darkness. 
Your witness to the Notre Dame community, and to the world beyond, distilled the abortion issue to its essence: each abortion kills a child, a little girl or boy waiting to be born. Thank you for reminding us of this immutable truth. 
Anthony J. Lauinger 
Notre Dame parent Oct. 11 




Friends of Aaron Martinuzzi 
Dear Notre Dame community, 
On Aug. 20, 2010, Aaron Martinuzzi, my good friend, former roommate and classmate at Notre Dame, suffered a spinal cord injury in a diving accident that left him para­lyzed from the shoulders down. I visited Aaron this week­end, and he is approaching his recovery with incredible strength, courage and determination. To that end, I am confident that he will achieve his goal of resuming his studies at the University of New England College of Osteopathic Medicine, where he recently enrolled as a first-year medical student. But he needs our help. 
As such, I am writing to ask everyone in the Notre Dame community to do anything they can to assist Aaron and his family in battling the daunting emotional and financial costs of his recovery. A foundation has been setup in his honor for this purpose, the stated objectives of which are: 
• To provide support for Aaron during his rehabilitation and assist with the lifestyle needs his spinal cord injury will require; 
• 
To purchase the necessary equipment (bed, wheel­chair, transportation, technology) to sustain progress towards full engagement in the pursuit of independence and education; [and] 

• 
To connect friends and family from … around the country, wh[o] have rallied to inspire Aaron and give him strength and encouragement. 


Aaron and his family would greatly appreciate any sup­port you can provide. Please rally around a fellow mem­ber of the Notre Dame family. 
Donations can be made payable to “Friends of Aaron Martinuzzi” and mailed to PO Box 324, Milford, MI, 48381. More information can be found at http://www.car­ingbridge.org/visit/aaronmartinuzzi/. 
In Notre Dame, 

Chris Lepore 
alumnus Class of 2008 Oct. 11 
UWIRE 


The freedom to ignore speech 
There is now a case before the Supreme Court of para­mount importance to testing the limits of free speech. The case refers to the radical hate group, Westboro Baptist Church, who will be visiting Eastern Washington soon. The case deals with the group’s protest at the funeral of Lance Cpl Matthew A. Snyder, who died in Iraq. The group stood outside the William Stetson church during his funeral, carrying such banners as “Thank God for The Daily dead soldiers.” The reason the Evergreen church protested the funeral was simple. To them, many of the nation’s problems, including the Iraq War, are because God hates gay people. 
According to the group, everything from 9/11 to Hurricane Katrina to the Gulf Oil Spill can be blamed on gay people and nonbelievers. Westboro has also called Jewish people the “real Nazis” and protested against a diverse group of individuals from Ronald Reagan to Coretta Scott King. 
To put it bluntly, there are very few people in this coun­try in agreement with the Westboro Baptist Church. For many of the Supreme Court justices, the case will not be a question of right and wrong, but how to issue an opinion upholding American values without triggering an Orwellian scenario where the government can restrict any speech they deem unacceptable. 
The American Civil Liberties Union unsurprisingly took the other side of the issue. To them, speech should be nearly unrestricted regardless of the message. 
However, if the ACLU’s fight in the court prevails, other messages such as cyberbullying could also be deemed legal. Cyberbullying is the latest of free speech controver­sies where people have been charged with bullying others, usually teens, via social networks. Many of these cases have ended in suicide. 
If the justices make too broad of a ruling, this harass­ment could certainly fall under the guise of free speech because all speech would be unrestricted and bullying, though hateful, is not always physically violent. 
Fortunately, there are options to ban groups such as Westboro from funerals while upholding the right to protest. 
The Westboro Church did a few things at the funeral protests to set it apart from others. By protesting during a funeral, Westboro made their message unavoidable. Unlike a standard pamphlet, or a protest on any other day of the year, they forced the funeral attendees to see and hear their message no matter any reasonable effort to avoid it. That is not free speech, it is harassment. 
Whenever someone is forced to listen, freedom of speech no longer applies. Inherent in any freedom should be the right to change channels, to put down the paper or avoid the protest. Our freedom of speech must also have a free­dom to avoid speech built in. Without that guarantee, protests at funerals, cyberbullying and other forms of harassment become perfectly legal. With the advent of online media, the opportunity to harass people for a cause becomes exceptionally easy. Some basic preventative measures are needed to preserve American freedoms. 
The justices now have an opportunity to help define these rights for all Americans so freedom of speech is legal, but harassment through the actions of individuals and groups such as Westboro remains illegal. 
Westboro followers will be protesting at Gonzaga U. and Eastern Washington U. on Oct. 21. Hopefully, the students at these fine institutions will just leave the morons of Westboro alone to be hoisted on their own petard. If any­one present at these rallies is deserving of the eternal con­sequences the group is likely to describe during those protests, it is the Westboro congregates. 
This article first appeared in the Oct. 11 edition of The Daily Evergreen, the daily publication serving Wasington State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 



Scene
page 10 Tuesday, October 12, 2010 


BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 


Scene
Tuesday, October 12, 2010 page 11 

Every morning when I awake I am besieged by many of mortification until one sees the its fabric counterparts, has a natural contents of one’s purse fall in an give which allows the bag to contour awesome heap down the steps of the itself to fit all those indispensable Louvre, obscuring the movements of daily necessities, allowing one also to some very large 
fit the various wallet groups of Japanese 
and/or makeup bag tourists and eliciting 
into its nooks and cran­the French tirades of 
nies. Ingeniously, the some very persnickety 
satchel can be worn by museum personnel). 
both men and women However, I have yet to 
— a truly democratic see one of our 
fashion statement. The European counterparts 
satchel comes in a vari­fall prey to this daily 
ety of styles, but the accessory dilemma. 
shape remains the And yet, I know they 
same: a large, roomy have just as much 
sack with comfortable work as we do: they 
handles and strap to accomplish the same 
accommodate every things we do in a day 
possible manner of (all right, perhaps with 
portability. Note that more coffee breaks 
while you might spend and long leisurely 
a bit more for a leather lunches, but still). How 
satchel, the daily do they do it — how do 
return on it is more Felicia thoughts — what is moment’s they write that 
than worth it — just 

research paper, pres-
ask the many students where am I going, the physi­
my schedule again, notice to 
Caponigri 

returning from Study what am I doing, cal pres ­
ent that thesis, for 
Abroad Programs with etc, etc. All these sure of 
heaven’s sake even 
run errands, without said satchel in hand. 
Scene Writer 

questions I affront that all ­
an oversized, heavy, No more mid-morning with ease: with my important 
arm-numbing bag? panic as you try to trusty agenda by my side I laugh in Calculus 
The answer I have stuff that last notebook the face of disorganization. However, b o o k 
discovered lies in the all-forgiving into an un-pliable purse, no more without fail every morning there stuffed in 
leather satchel. I have seen countless awkward niceties when you try to arrives that one moment when I must b e t w e e n 
Parisian women biking on their explain why your backpack keeps draw upon every ounce of zeal I notebooks 
Velibs (that wonderful chic public bumping people behind you in line at posses to answer that one question a n d 
bike system) with this accessory in Subway! Topshop currently has the which trounces all the others in its b i n d e r s 
the front basket. I’ve seen self-pos-answer for an investment of $65.00: complexity — how in the world am I ( k n o w sessed Italian businessmen carrying all hail freedom from the stress of going to fit all of today’s precious that I it with pride to their board meetings, books! Well, at least until one reach-necessities into one fashionable, m y s e l f and students effortlessly lifting the es the sanctuary of the library. style-worthy bag? have been the victim of the bag-hallmarks of their trade — those pre-
I know I am not alone in this style breaking scenario, and let me just viously pesky books — on their way Contact Felicia Caponigri at challenge. Everywhere I go I see say, one does not know the meaning to class. The leather satchel, unlike fcaponig@nd.edu 




BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, October 12, 2010 
CLUB SPORTS
CLUB SPORTS 


Rowing club places at meet 
Rugby club rebounds 
Special to The Observer 
The men’s rowing club compet­ed in its first regatta of the season Sunday at the Head of the Rock Regatta in Rockford, Ill. Featuring three varsity eight boats, three varsity four boats, four varsity doubles, two novice eight boats, and one novice four boat, the club finished second overall in team points behind Michigan. 
Five Irish boats placed in the top three of their respective events and medaled at the regat­ta. To begin the day, the colle­giate four coxed by Lauren Mach, with Garrett Campbell, Greg Flood, Charlie Janini and Michael Wagner placed third behind Michigan’s two fours. In the men’s open doubles event, Mark Kettler and Sean Gibbons placed second with Kurt Krautmann and Michael Maggart right behind with a third place finish. 
In the afternoon, the novice eight competed in its first race of the season. Coxed by Kate von Hoffman and rowed by Sean Armbruster, John Cotter, Nick Prevete, Zach Weber, Alec McDonnell, Matt Rhodes, Cal Belden and David Murphy, the crew finished third in their event behind the University of Minnesota and University of Illinois. 


to defeat Boilermakers 
In the men’s collegiate eight event, the club’s top eight finished second behind the University of 
Michigan. Rebecca Holmberg coxed the eight, with Michael Wagner, Michael Maggart, Greg Flood, Zach Stackhouse, Graham Boechler, Kurt Krautmann, Tim Parks and Garrett Campbell sit­ting stoke to bow. 
The club will be travelling to Boston, MA during the second half of fall break for the Head of the Charles Regatta on October 23rd and 24th, racing in the col­legiate eight, collegiate four, and club four events. 

By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
After a bit of a slow start, the Notre Dame rugby team turned it on and dominated Purdue with a 49-7 win on Saturday. 
Notre Dame (5-2) raced off to a 6-0 lead after Irish soph­omore Sean Peterson kicked two penalty goals through the uprights. Purdue then took a 7-6 lead when the Irish turned the ball over deep in 
their end, leading to a Boilermaker try and conver­
sion, but the Irish responded with 43 unanswered points to bury the Boilermakers. 
“We played about 60 min­utes of good rugby,” Irish 
MLB 

Burnett to start in ALCS senior forward Nick Civetta 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — A.J. Burnett will start Game 4 of the AL championship series for the New York Yankees on 2½ weeks’ rest. 
General manager Brian Cashman said Monday that New York decided against using a three-man rotation against Texas or Tampa Bay, which would have required CC Sabathia, Andy Pettitte and Phil Hughes to all start on three days’ rest in the latter part of the best-of-seven series. 
“We hope he pitches well for us,” Cashman said. “We believe in him every time he takes the mound, but he has struggled, no question about it, here in the second half. But that was then. This is now. He’s a very competitive person. We believe that competitive nature will allow him to step up and do a great job for us. We look for­ward to that. But you can’t run away from how he pitched in the second half. He didn’t pitch well.” 
In the second season of an $82.5 million, five-year con­tract, Burnett did not appear against Minnesota in the divi­sion series and has not pitched in a game since Oct. 2. He was 10-15 with a 5.26 ERA during the regular season, including 4-13 with a 6.48 ERA over the final four months and 1-7 from Aug. 1 on. 
“He’s got a very complicated delivery,” Cashman said. “But when he’s on, he’s as tough as they come.” 
said. “The 20 minutes there at the beginning we were not really making good passes, but we buckled down.” 
After Irish senior back and captain Andy O’Connor ran in the first try of the match for the Irish to make the score 13-7, the Irish earned a scrum at the 5-meter line after tackling Purdue in their own try zone. Civetta picked up the ball from the scrum and touched it down for a try, putting the Irish up 20-7, the first of his three tries on the day. 
While the Irish took a com­fortable 20-7 lead into the half, they kept didn’t let up in the second half, exploding for 29 points in the final 40 min­utes. 

“The first half was dedicat­ed to setting up our structure and bringing the defense in to allow us in the second half to exploit that for all the points that we did,” O’Connor said. 
O’Connor had two tries and senior forward John Lalor added another. Peterson was successful kicking all day, making all three of his penal­ty attempts and going five-for-six on conversions. 
Despite the success, the Irish know they can get bet­ter. 
“We were a little bit undis­ciplined,” Lalor said. “We cleaned it up in the second half, but there’s always room to improve.” 
The schedule now gets tougher for the Irish with Bowling Green up next. 
“[Bowling Green] has domi­nated this league for a bunch of years,” Irish sophomore back David Penberthy said. “We’d like to get that win for our seniors.” 
The Irish take on the Falcons this Saturday at McGlinn Fields. 

Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
NFL 



Favre apologizes to teammates for being a distraction 
Associated Press  E S P N f i r s t r e p o r t e d Favre’s apology.  o n  l e a g u e f i n d h e d i d , F a v r e could be fined or suspended.  with the team. The vo ic emails include  a  Sterger has not yet spoken to the league. The person spoke  
NFL Commissioner Roger  “The first thing you want to  m a n  a s k i n g  t o  m e e t  w i t h  on  co n d i t i o n o f a n o n y m i t y  
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.  — Goodell said Monday that the  do is find out the facts, and  Sterger, who now is a TV per- b e c a u s e  t h e y  w e r e  n o t  
Brett Favre has apologized to  league is looking to “find out  that’s what we’re trying  to  sonality for the Versus net- authorized to comment.  
the Minnesota Vikings for the  all the facts” regarding the  do,” Goodell said. “We’re try- work. The website posted  a  Deadspin also reported that  
distraction caused by an  NFL  Favre allegati ons and that  ing to find out all the facts  v i d e o  t h a t  c o n t a i n e d  t h e  F a v r e pu rs u e d  t w o  f e m a l e  
investigation into allegations  once  the investigation is fin- around it and then  once  we  voicemails and several graph- m a s s a g e  t h e r a p i s t s  w h o  
that he  sent  racy messages  ished “then we’ll determine  determine those facts, then  i c  p h o t o s  — s a i d  t o  b e  o f  w o r k e d  p a r t  t i m e  f o r  t h e  
a n d l e w d p h o t o s  t o  a  J e t s  what the  next  step is from  we’ll determine what the next  Favre  — that  were  allegedly  team, according to one of the  
game hostess in 2008.  there, if any.”  step is from there, if any.”  sent to Sterger’s cell phone.  w o m e n .  D e a d s p i n  d i d  n o t  
A person with knowledge of  Goodell spoke in Chicago,  After  a  long stretch with  S t e r g e r ’s  m a n a g e r,  P h i l  identify the women, but a Jets  
t h e  s i t u a t i o n  t o l d  T h e  where he is attending league  Green Bay, where he  won  a  Reese, has declined to say if  spokesman said the team was  
Associated Press that Favre  meetings. There  was  no  indi- Super Bowl, Favre played for  his client is cooperating with  giving contact information for  
s p o k e  t o  h i s  t e a m m a t e s  cation from the NFL when the  New York in 2008 and then  th e NFL  o r  h a s r e t a i ned  a  the two women to the league.  
M o n d a y  w h i l e  t h e y  w e r e  investigation would be  com- signed with the Vikings last  lawyer, but issued  a  state- F av re’s o nly p ub l i c  c om - 
pre pa r ing  t o  pl ay t he Ne w  p l e t e  o r  w h e n  t h e  l e a g u e  year.  m e n t  M o n d a y  s a y i n g  t h a t  ment on the reports came last  
Yo r k  J e t s  a t  N e w  would talk  t o  the q u art er- L a s t  w e e k ,  t h e  w e b s i t e  “ w e ’ r e  l o o k i n g  a t  a l l  o u r  Thursday: “I’m  not  getting  
Meadowlands Stadium. The  back.  D e a d s p i n  p o s t e d  a  s t o r y  o p tion s righ t  n ow  an d  o ur  into that. I’ve got my hands  
person spoke  on  condition of  The NFL is trying to deter- which included several voice- o n l y  c o n c e r n  i s  w h a t ’s  i n  full with the Jets and am try- 
anonymity because they were  mine if Favre,  a  three-time  mails allegedly sent by Favre  Jenn’s best interest.”  ing to get  some  timing down  
not authorized to talk publicly  MV P, v i o l at e d i t s p e r s o n a l  to Jenn Sterger, who worked  A person familiar with the  with  our  guys,  so  that’s all  
about the conversation.  c o n du ct p o licy. Shoul d the  for the Jets while Favre  was  s i t u a t i o n  t o l d  t h e  A P  t h a t  I’m going to discuss.”  

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
AVAILABLE NOW  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't  Cosmo Kramer: Why does Radio  
FOR RENT  4BD/2BA HOME FOR RENT.  PERSONAL  go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If  Shack ask for your phone number when you buy batteries? I don't  Cosmo Kramer: Do you have a woman?  
you or someone you love needs  know.  George Costanza: No.  
IRISH CORNER APARTMENTS  1.5 miles from ND 574-876-6333  confidential support or assistance,  ———————————————  Cosmo Kramer: Do you have any  
New upscale apts. Less than 1 mi  ———————————————  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  Cosmo Kramer: You're wasting your  prospects?  
from ND, next to Taco Bell on  If you or someone you care about  or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more  life.  George Costanza: No.  
SR933.  has been sexually assaulted, we  information, visit ND's website at:  George Costanza: I am not. What  Cosmo Kramer: You got anything  
Fully furnished apts w/granite coun­ can help.  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu.  you call wasting, I call living. I'm liv­ on the horizon?  
tertops, GE appliances w/dishwash- NOW RENTING 2011-12 4BD/2BA  ———————————————  ing my life.  George Costanza: Uh, no.  
er. Each has 2bd/2bath. Mstr. bdrm  HOUSES.  Cosmo Kramer: They're trying to  Cosmo Kramer: OK, like what? No,  Cosmo Kramer: Do you have any  
w/walkin closet. No water/sewer bill.  screw with your head.  tell me. Do you have a job?  conceivable reason for even getting  
$1000/mo starting.  STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS  Jerry: Now why would a junior high  George Costanza: No.  up in the morning?  
Call JSK Development 574-387­ 574-876-6333  For more information, visit Notre  school want to screw with my  Cosmo Kramer: You got money?  George Costanza: I like to get the  
4466.  Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu.  head?  George Costanza: No.  Daily News.  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Tuesday, October 12, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
The motto of the 2010 Morrissey team is “No 

Cronin 

Coaches, No Seniors, No continued from page 24 Problem.” That motto will be 
tested like never before this Cronin said. Thursday as the Manor faces 
The Dawgs attributed much perennial championship con-of their success to their offen-tender Siegfried. sive line, especially junior cen­ter Tim Curran. Carroll 10, Zahm 0 
“Our offensive line led us to Despite a slow start, Carroll victory,” Dansdill said. “Tim is defeated Zahm to extend its the cornerstone.” win streak and move one step 
The Ramblers’ offense, on closer to their ultimate goal of the other hand, was seriously a championship. hampered when senior quar-Both Carroll (3-0) and Zahm terback Matt Meinert was (0-3) failed to execute on injured in the first quarter and offense during the first half. sat out for the remainder of The Vermin offense, precise the game. Siegfried struggled and powerful for much of the to put drives together, and season, was plagued by penal-although sophomore replace-ties throughout the half. The ment quarterback David tough, spirited Zahm defense Whitmore and sophomore run-held Carroll to only a few first ning back Bryce Burton made downs in the half. a few significant gains, Zahm’s offense, led by sopho­Alumni’s defense held tough. more quarterback Alex 
“[Meinert getting hurt] obvi-Bowman, showed improvement ously hurt their game offen-from previous games but failed sively but our defense was to move effectively up the field. awesome today,” Dansdill said. Relying heavily on the passing “We had a couple of guys play-game, Bowman had problems ing positions they had never connecting with receivers. played before and everyone “We felt we played well,” stepped up.” Zahm freshman offensive tack-
While Alumni will seek its le Scott Aufderheide said. “Our fourth win against Knott, defense is strong and our Siegfried will take on offense is getting better. Our Morrissey, both at 7:30 p.m. at offense is clicking well, but LaBar Field Thursday. isn’t there yet.” end zone. Just before halftime, good pressure on the quarter-freshman fullback Joe Paggi. 
Led by freshman quarter-however, Keenan threw an back. We were looking for the Once the Green Wave (2-2) Morrissey 6, Duncan 0 back Jack Gardner, the Vermin interception that O’Neill trick play all game and then crossed into St. Edward’s terri-
Both Morrissey and Duncan offense came out stronger and returned to 40-yard line, effec-we were ready for it,” Diaz tory, they switched up their battled for the full 60 minutes more determined in the second tively ending the half with the said. “I went up, got the ball attack and junior quarterback on Sunday, but in the end, it half. score 14-6. and came down with it. It Pat Hertinstein hit senior half-was the Manor (2-1) that tri-“We started off slow,” junior Although the Keenan offense worked out for us.” back and team captain Michael umphed over the Highlanders running back Nick Tammerine opened the second half with Stanford (2-1) senior quar-McMahon for a 40-yard touch­(1-3). said. “Our coach talked to us at the ball, O’Neill quickly terback Tony Rizzo said there down completion. Fisher then 
The game was a defensive halftime and we got our act regained possession and tossed were two reasons for the completed a two-point conver­struggle from the outset and together for the rest of the a 35-yard touchdown that turnovers. sion attempt to take an 8-0 neither team scored a touch-game.” helped O’Neill open up a 20-6 “We had way too many lead. down. Carroll finally got on the lead. Soon after, the Mob [turnovers],” Rizzo said. “I St. Edward’s (1-2) quickly 
With the momentum on his scoreboard with a field goal to scored again on a long touch-think it can be attributed to responded, marching down the side, Morrissey freshman quar-open the fourth quarter. From down pass by McCabe. two things-we played really field behind senior quarter­terback Nick Conrad settled that point on, the Vermin In the closing minutes of the sloppy, but mostly Dillon just back Matt Abeling to get on the into his own game and was looked much more like a domi-game, Keenan narrowed the played a really good game. scoreboard. able to find his open receivers. nant, undefeated team. defecit with a 30-yard touch-They played aggressive on The St. Edward’s defense One of the most spectacular With just under three min-down pass to make the final defense, and it looked like they seemed to be slowing down the plays of the game occurred on utes remaining in the game, score to 26-12. knew what we were going to Fisher attack until the third third down with Morrisey out Carroll added to its lead as “We dominated in every do, and they played well play of the ensuing possession, of field goal range when Tammerine ran for a long aspect of the game,” O’Neill against it.” McMahon took a pitch left and Morissey sophomore tight end touchdown. The Vermin junior captain Guy Schwartz Dillon opened the game with sprinted down the sideline 73­Taylor Stein hauled in a 20-defense held Zahm back and said. “But they didn’t have a touchdown and kicked two yard Fisher touchdown. yard halfback pass to put the refused to give them the their starting quarterback field goals later in the first half As the first half drew to a Manor in position to put points opportunity to score. today. You could tell it really to take the lead at halftime, close with St. Edward’s looking on the board. The Vermin won a tough hurt them that he didn’t play.” 13-0. for a rally, Abeling led the 
“In the heat of the moment, game to remain undefeated Keenan was hampered by “We came out a lot better in Gentlemen through the air Conrad saw freshman wide and realize how important it is injuries on the day, as sopho-the first half. We started off down to the Green Wave’s 3­receiver Andrew Gastelum to keep working on their game. more quarterback Trevor strong,” Dillon sophomore yard line before scampering open,” Stein said. “Instead of “We feel ready for the rest of Yerrick was out with an injury, coach Lee Haruno said. “Our into the end zone to put St. catching the ball, Gastelum our games” Tammerine said. forcing Koepsel into the start-defense played great. Our cap-Edward’s within two points at tipped it right to me. It was “We will work on tackling and ing lineup. He was later tain worked hard to come up halftime. one of the best passes we have staying positive.” replaced by sophomore Alex with schemes to contain them.” The two teams butted heads completed all season.” While Carroll looks to contin-Green. With the victory, the Big Red for the entire third quarter, 
Morrissey junior kicker Rory ue its winning ways, Zahm is “We were disappointed, but wins the Green League title with neither team gaining Carroll nailed a 39-yard field still searching for its first win. I'm very proud of the effort and have secured an automatic much ground as physical play goal as time expired in the first After showing a marked and dedication from everyone bid in the 2010 playoffs. ruled the action. In the fourth, half to put his team up 3-0. improvement on offense, the on the team,” Keenan senior “Give credit to Stanford. an Abeling interception halted 
“I was a little nervous at team remains positive. captain Bart Dear said. They played hard, they played a Gentlemen drive, and Fisher first, as it was my first field Carroll looks to keep its win Despite the win, O’Neill well. Their offense is very began to run out the clock with goal attempt this season,” streak alive this week against needed to win big to help its explosive, and we’re just their signature bruising style. Carroll said. “I just kept a cool Sorin while Zahm looks to playoff chances and was left happy to get away with the vic-The Green Wave continued to head and hit it through the break through for its first win underwhelmed by the result. tory,” Haruno said. “They’ve hand the ball to McMahon, and uprights.” against St. Ed’s on Thursday “We did really great,” got a lot of good playmakers on he eventually found the end 
In the second half, the Manor night. Schwartz said, “But I’m a little Stanford’s offense, and we zone for a final time on a 45­defense came up strong and frustrated because the point were just happy to contain yard run to put the final score forced a quick three-and-out O’Neill 26, Keenan 12 differential really does matter them.” at 28-12. for the Highlanders on their In Sunday’s showdown so it leaves a little bit of a bit-For Stanford, a win on Fisher felt it was their hard first possession. Morrissey then between Keenan and O’Neill, ter taste in my mouth.” Thursday would qualify the work that got them the victory. drove down the field, allowing the Angry Mob’s aerial attack O’Neill will try to earn a Griffins for the 2010 playoffs “We had some good practices Carroll again came up big as made the difference in the playoff berth against Stanford as well. this week and tried to liven up he nailed his second field goal O’Neill win. on Thursday at 9:30 at LaBar “We’ve got a game on the guys’ imaginations with of the game from 25 yards out. The Knights (1-3) took an Field, while Keenan wrapped Thursday. We are excited to our play calling,” McMahon 
“We came into this game early lead in the opening min-up its regular season. bounce back and play well in said. “Whether we get to the wanting to get more comple-utes of the game when senior that,” Rizzo said. “I feel like we playoffs is out of our hands tions so we have the option of quarterback Jamie Koepsel Dillon 27, Stanford 8 can match up with anybody. now but that would be great.” throwing the ball more,” threw a long touchdown pass. The battle of unbeatens We had a tough game today The Green Wave wrapped up Conrad said. “I completed at After missing the extra point, quickly became a defensive but we know what we need to their regular season Sunday least one pass to all four of my O’Neill (2-2) took over and took clinic by the Big Red as Dillon work on.” while the Gentlemen play their wide receivers, so I’d call this only eight plays to punch the dominated in their win over The Big Red will play Keough final game this Thursday. game a success.” ball into the opposite endzone Stanford. Thursday, while the Griffins 
As for Duncan, their hopes of and tie the score at six. Just The Big Red (3-0) defense will face O’Neill. Contact Kelsey Manning at becoming the first team in four plays later, O’Neill had recorded three takeaways on kmannin3@nd.edu, Adam dorm history to make the play-possession of the ball again, the day with two fumble recov-Fisher 28, St. Edward’s 12 Llorens at allorens@nd.edu, offs are slim to none. Although and a 20-yard touchdown pass eries and an interception by Fisher found its offense and Kristen Lasak at klasak@nd.edu, the Highlanders were able to by junior quarterback J.P. freshman safety Ben Diaz on bolstered its playoff chances Katie Heit at move the ball through the air McCabe gave the Mob a 14-6 the first play of the second with a rout over St. Edward’s. kheit@nd.edu, Megan Golden at at times, the Morrissey defense lead. half. The Fisher offense started mgolde01@saintmarys.edu and proved to be too much for Keenan answered with a “It was a good play. The strong on its first drive, pound-David Kenney at them. methodical drive toward the defensive line gave a lot of ing the ball down the field with dkenney1@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, October 12, 2010 
MEN’S TENNIS 



Stahllookstofinishcareeronhighnote 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
With many college athletes, everything is about being flashy and making the head­lines while academics take a backseat. Irish senior Dan Stahl, however, quietly goes about his business on and off the court and continues to excel for Notre Dame. 
The senior from Bethesda, Md., is looking to put togeth­er his strongest effort since his Irish career began in 2007 and lead the team deep into postseason play. 
Stahl was recruited by the Irish after an outstanding run in high school. He led his team to the 2005 Maryland state championship and advanced to the finals of the singles bracket in 2007. 
Despite his distinguished high school career, he flew under the radar when he came to campus as a fresh­man. 
“Dan is a guy that wasn’t recruited as heavily as he should have been,” Irish assistant coach Ryan Sachire said. “He wasn’t ranked as highly as others, but he entered the starting lineup as a freshman and has pro ­gressed every year.” 
As a freshman, Stahl was named to the Big East All-Tournament team after going 27-8 during the regular sea­son. In his sophomore season, he was listed as the 112th best player in the nation. 
Despite the early success, Stahl has never stopped working to improve his game. 
MLB 


He has developed into an elite tennis player with strong serves and intimidat­ing net play to compliment the impressive groundstrokes he had coming in as a fresh­man. 
Sachire noted that Stahl’s impact on the team cannot be overvalued. 
“He’s a great embodiment of who we are and is one of the hardest workers on the team,” he said. “He is a leader by example and really believes in himself.” 
Stahl continues to focus on reaching team goals over individual ones. 
“I think that individual goals are good to have as long as they do not take 




Giants finish off Braves to advance to NLCS 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — The San Francisco Giants celebrated their first playoff win in eight years, then paused to honor the man whose career they had just ended. 
As Bobby Cox came out of the Braves dugout to tip his cap to the chanting crowd one last time Monday night, the Giants stopped what they were doing on the other side of the field. 
They began clapping, too, and tipped their caps in Cox’s direc­tion. The Atlanta manager waved back. 
Then the Giants headed off to savor a 3-2 victory that sent them to the NL Championship Series for the first time since 2002. Twenty-one-year-old rook­ie Madison Bumgarner pitched six strong innings, late-season pickup Cody Ross homered and drove in the go-ahead run with a two-out single in the seventh, and the San Francisco bullpen closed it out. 
For Cox, there are no more games, only the reality of what he’s going to do with the rest of his life without a group of ballplayers to manage. 
He can put away that familiar No. 6 uniform for good. 
“It doesn’t feel like the last time I’m putting it on, but it cer­tainly is,” Cox said, his voice cracking. “I won’t put it on again.” 
The series was tight and tense to the very last out. Giants closer Brian Wilson walked two in the ninth, giving the Braves one more shot to extend Cox’s career. But Omar Infante struck out attempting to check his swing on a nasty slider, and Melky Cabrera grounded out to third. 
“This series had everything,” Giants manager Bruce Bochy said. “Just the intensity and excitement of the series, it had to be thrilling for the fans. There was never an easy moment for Bobby or myself, because these games could have gone either way.” 
Indeed, every game was decid­ed by one run, but the Giants won three of them to take the best-of-five series and earn a shot against the two-time defending NL champion Phillies. Game 1 is Saturday at Philadelphia and features a marquee matchup: Tim Lincecum vs. Roy Halladay. 
After the final out, the crowd of 44,532 chanted “Bobby! Bobby! Bobby!” to lure the retir­ing skipper out of the dugout for a well-deserved curtain call. 
precedence over team goals,” Stahl said. “I would really like to make it into the NCAA singles tournament at the end of the season, and in doing so, maintaining a solid rank­ing. I can strive for that goal, but ultimately I will keep it in the back of my mind and focus on the team. I really want us to win the Big East tournament this year after losing to Louisville in the finals last year.” 
Stahl has already left a mark on the program and is looking to take the Irish pro­gram to a new high before graduating this spring. 

Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
NFL 




Favre fires 500th TD in loss to Jets 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
— Brett Favre was at his daz­zling best after a miserable start that put the Minnesota Vikings in a hole. 
There would be no classic comeback this time, though, for the record-breaking quar­terback. 
Hit hard early and often by Rex Ryan’s physical defense, Favre nearly led the Vikings back with a milestone night, but Dwight Lowery returned an interception 26 yards for a touchdown with 1:30 left as the New York Jets beat the Vikings 29-20 on Monday night in a game that was delayed 45 minutes at the start by lightning. 
Lacking fireworks early, Nick Folk kicked five field goals for the Jets (4-1), two after fumbles by Favre, and now the 41-year-old quarter­back is left wondering if an even bigger punishment is in store from NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell. 
Favre finished 14 for 34 for 264 yards for the Vikings (1­
3) hours after he apologized to teammates for the distrac­tion caused by an NFL inves­tigation into allegations that he sent racy messages and lewd photos to a Jets game hostess in 2008. 
He became the first NFL player to throw 500 touch­down passes and for 70,000 yards, but two early fumbles against his former team helped put the Vikings in a 12-0 hole. 

Favre threw three touch­downs, including two to Percy Harvin — the second bringing the Vikings within two points with 3:09 left in the game. Favre and the Vikings offense had the ball with 1:43 remaining and poised for a winning drive — until Favre’s last big mistake. 
He connected with new teammate Randy Moss from 37 yards out late in the third quarter to cut the Jets’ lead to 12-7. Favre zipped down the field and jumped into Moss’ arms in the end zone to celebrate the score. 
Less than 5 minutes later, Favre hit Harvin for a 34­yard touchdown that made it 15-13 with 12:47 left. But Favre’s tying 2-point conver­sion try was intercepted by Antonio Cromartie in the end zone. 
Shonn Greene’s 23-yard touchdown run with 4:30 left gave the Jets a 22-13 lead that appeared to seal the vic­tory, but Favre still had plenty of time to try for a comeback victory. 
The game marked the Vikings debut for Moss, who finished with four catches for 81 yards, including the touch­down, while being defended mostly by Cromartie despite the return of Darrelle Revis from a hamstring injury. 
Adrian Peterson had 88 yards on 18 carries for Minnesota. 
Tuesday, October 12, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
added. “Then we adapt to each 

opponent.” Lewis’s fate was left unclear continued from page 20 after the loss as they have to 
wait to see whether they will their second drive as Ruekert receive a wild card spot. made it a two-score game with Ceponis, however, is content a 50-yard rushing touchdown. either way. 
The Chicks countered on their “Lewis football has had the next drive with a 65-yard catch most fun out of all the dorms,” and run by freshman wide Ceponis said. “If this was the receiver Colleen Haller, setting last game, we left a legacy.” up a short rushing touchdown by sophomore quarterback Howard 26, Pasquerilla East 0 Connaught Blood. Howard blitzed the 
On Lewis’ next drive, howev-Pasquerilla East defense for er, Blood was intercepted, lead-touchdowns on each of itsthree ing to the first of two rushing first half possessions en route to touchdowns by Tate. a victory at LaBar Field Sunday. 
The Chicks offense came out The Ducks (4-0) were led by stronger in the second half. On senior captain and quarterback their first drive, Blood was hip-Kayla Bishop, who completed checked out of bounds by a 11 of 21 passes on the day for Pangborn defender as she three touchdowns. Bishop streaked to the end zone, forc-spread the ball around evenly ing a penalty that led to first-among multiple receivers, who and-goal. Blood then ran it in had big games themselves, for the Chicks’ second touch-showing quick strike capabili­down. ties that allowed Howard to 
The Lewis defense, led by score twice on drives lasting senior cornerback Mary just three plays. McKeever, then forced a three-“Our game continues to and-out, giving the Chicks an improve as our receivers get opportunity to tie the game. better at reading defenses,” However, the Lewis receivers Bishop said. “They did a great dropped three straight passes job today.” on the next drive. The Howard defense excelled 
There was only time for one as well, allowing only six same issues that we’ve had all Sunday as they upset a McGlinn Ryan’s seasons were on the line more Lewis possession, and Pasquerilla East (1-3) first year, not connecting on plays squad that needed a win to as the teams battled in the hope Blood connected with Haller to downs in the game. With excel-and getting in our own way,” advance to the playoffs, as that a win would contribute to a squeeze out one last touch-lent containment and flag-Mannion said. “But in the sec-everything finally came togeth-potential playoff berth. In the down. pulling, For the most part, ond half we let go of our fear of er for the Wild Women (1-3) as end, the Whirlwinds (2-2) bol-
The Phoxes were thrilled with Howard contained the Pyros making mistakes a little bit and they got their first win of the stered their playoff chances the win and are excited for the running game, led by senior lit a little fire under our butts.” season in a victory over the with a win over the Wildcats (1­playoffs. Maggie Waller. Howard also Despite the better play, the Shamrocks (2-2). 3). 
“We knew we had to come returned an interception for a Pyros were still stifled by a Walsh struck first early in the The Whirlwinds strong pass-into this game and win,” touchdown in the first half. Howard defense that pitched its opening half when senior quar-ing attack produced multiple Ruekert said. “Gabby was really Though the result was disap-second shutout of the year and terback Amy Langnecker com-long touchdown passes from patient and waited for good pointing, Pasquerilla East jun-has its sights on a defending its pleted a long pass up the left sophomore quarterback Vicky opportunities to score.” ior captain Kristin Mannion saw championship from la year ago. side of the field to set up a goal Moreno to junior wide receiver 
Looking ahead, the Pangborn improvement in her team in the “The key, as it has been all line situation. Senior receiver Natalie Baldasari. squad is prepared to face stiff second half. Through a much-year, was our team chemistry,” Lindsey Schanzer hauled in a The Wildcats jumped out to a competition in the postseason. improved defense and an Bishop said. “Especially on short pass from Langnecker on quick 6-0 lead after sophomore 
“We’re going to take the play-increasing reliance on the run-defense.” the next play for the touch-quarterback Maya Pillai found offs one game at a time,” ning of Waller after completing The Ducks will head to the down. junior wide receiver Brianna Ruekert said. only one of seven passes in the playoffs after Fall Break. The Wild Women missed the Curtis in traffic across the mid­“The coaches do a good job of first half, the Pyros played extra point, which allowed dle for 70-yard touchdown figuring out what the other much better in the second half. Walsh 13, McGlinn 7 McGlinn to take the lead just pass. On the ensuing team is going to do,” Tate “In the first half we had the Walsh played spoiler this after halftime. After several Whirlwinds possession, Moreno strong defensive plays on tossed an 80-yard touchdown to Walsh’s part, the Shamrocks Baldasari, which was followed were able to break through by a successful conversion to when junior quarterback give the Whirlwinds a 7-6 lead. Lauren Miller lofted a pass to The game-changing drive for junior receiver Kate Miller in the Whirlwinds came with less the left corner of the end zone. than ten seconds left in the first A sharp pass to the right corner half. Moreno threw a 25-yard of the end zone that was barely completion to junior wide kept in bounds got the receiver Charlotte Seasly, which Shamrocks the extra point and placed the ball at 35-yard line put them ahead 7-6. with only three seconds left. A 
Walsh answered on the very beautifully designed play was next drive, when Langnecker created to free up Baldasari for found Schanzer deep in the the touchdown as time expired, right corner of the end zone for and Welsh Family took a 14-6 their second score. The Wild lead into the half. Women held on for the win dur-“That play was huge,” ing McGlinn’s final drive of the Moreno said. “We knew that we game and sealed the deal with needed points for the point dif­an interception. ferentials to get into the play-
The win meant a lot to the offs. [Baldasari] made a great Wild Women, as they avoided a catch.” winless season. The Whirlwinds scored on 
“We came together as a team their first possession of the sec-after three losses in a row,” ond half when Moreno capped Langnecker said. “We wanted off the opening drive with a to end the season on a good three-yard touchdown pass to note. We wanted the seniors to junior Grace Johnson to go out with a win.” increase Welsh Family’s lead to 
Langnecker credited her 20-6. team’s tough defense for keep-The Wildcats scored late in ing them in the game. the second half on a 30-yard 
“Our defense rocked today. touchdown pass from Pillai to [Senior] Allison Vicenzi espe-senior wide receiver Kelly cially did a great job knocking O’Brien to narrow the deficit to down passes left and right,” she 20-12, but it wasn’t enough as said. the Whirlwind won a do-or-die 
While the loss for the game. Shamrocks eliminated them “This was a must win,” from the playoffs, Miller still Baldasari said. “We’re hoping has a positive outlook for the we’re a wild card for the play-future of McGlinn’s program. offs. We came out and played 
“I think that we had a good our hardest and did what we season,” Miller said. “We had a needed to do.” handful of veterans and a hand­ful of young kids, who can now Contact Tori Roeck at build on experience.” vroeck@nd.edu, Conor Kelly at 
ckelly17@nd.edu, Laura ColettiWelsh Family 20, Ryan 12 at lcoletti@nd.edu and Ian Both Welsh Family’s and Garrahy at igarrahy@nd.edu 
Ruekert 



page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 12, 2010 
MEN’S GOLF 



Irish tied for first after day one at Firestone 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
The Irish started off their third tournament of the year with a bang, finishing the first two rounds of the Firestone Invitational in a tie for first place with Indiana University. Both teams finished with a 12-under-par 564 and have distanced themselves from the field. 
With tournaments so far at the Ocean Course at Kiawah Island and Notre Dame’s own Warren Course, the Irish have played on some nationally-renowned courses. According to Irish coach Jim Kubinski, Firestone Country Club’s North Course in Akron, Ohio, is no different. 
“It’s right in line with the first two,” Kubinski said. 
Kubinski acknowledged that for his team has to earn the right to play in invitationals on such prestigious courses. 
“That’s the neat thing about college golf,” Kubinski said. 
“You don’t have your schedule set in advance. We have to get invitations.” 
Integral to these invitations is his team’s body of work, and Kubinski noted that only two quality schools have got­ten the better of Notre Dame this year. 
“The only two teams to beat us this year, Iowa and NC State, finished one -two in Duke’s tournament, so it shows you how good they are,” Kubinski said. 
Notre Dame’s play on Monday lived up to the expec­tations set forth so far this season, and freshman Niall Platt in particular helped the Irish keep up with the field in the first round. 
“We were lucky this morn­ing, Niall really kept us in it,” Kubinski said. “He shot that 65, one of the top three or four (scores) in Notre Dame history.” 
After a first round 284, Notre Dame stepped up to deliver an eight-under-par 280 in the afternoon. Kubinski credited the improved play of the rest of his squad, particu­larly juniors Max Scodro and Chris Walker. 

“Max had two eagles, Chris shot a 69,” Kubinski said of the juniors’ second round efforts. “They really did a great job taking advantage of the par fives and putted really well.” 
Another positive for the Irish after the first day at Firestone was the debut of freshman Andrew Lane. Although not competing for the team, he entered as an individual and finished with a seven-over-par 157 for two rounds. Kubinski expects the talented first-year golfer to eventually contribute to the team score this season. 
“He would tell you he didn’t play real well,” Kubinski said. “He’s very talented, and I would expect him to break into the top five at some point this season.” 

Contact Cory Bernard cbernard@nd.edu 


ND WOMEN’S GOLF 



Junior Allare leads Irish on and off the golf course 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
In college golf tourna ­ments, the top five scores compose the total team score. While the sixth score may not count in terms of numbers, for the Irish, number six 


c o u n t s w h o l e more.  f o r a l o t  “I love the team trips — it’s just so much fun  r o u n d e d b y stories of her d a d a n d  
Junior Katie  to spend time with the  u n c l e ,  b o t h  
A l l a r e , f r o m Phoenix, Ariz.,  team.”  N o t r e D a m e g r a d u a t e s .  
has been play-in g go l f sin c e  Katie Allare  H e r y o u n g e r b r o t h e r i s  
a  v e r y  y o u n g  Irish golfer  h e r e  a s  w e l l ,  

age. What began as a pastime quick­ly became much more for Allare at an age when most people have barely played more than a game of minia­ture golf. 
“I began playing golf when I was really young, but I started taking it seriously when I was about twelve because I started compet­ing,” Allare said. 
From then on, the game became a large part of her life, as she left high school with four varsi­

tackling an equilibrium that for Notre Dame, the answer many athletes struggle to is easy. maintain. “I love the team trips — 
“It’s made keeping up with it ’s just so much fun to grades much harder, but I spend time with the team,” love being able to compete for the university,” Allare said. 
Strong family ties pushed Allare to Notre Dame, who is sur ­

“The best experience 
ty letters. But score of 235 when she was outside of golf has in 54 holes, not golfing, she just three 
been tailgating with
hit the books, strokes
my family every home
remaining an behind Irish honor roll stu-football game.” senior Katie dent through -Conway. out high school, Last year 
Katie Allare
something she Allare com ­
Irish golfer
has continued peted in the which makes 
Phoenix seem 
far closer than a map may show. 
“The best experience out­side of golf has been tailgat­ing with my family every home football game,” Allare said. “We throw great tail­gates, and I love hanging out with my family and my friends at the same time.” 
In her most recent compe­tition, Allare competed inde­pendently, but she pushed her teammates the entire way. She fin­ished tied for 68th with a 
since enrolling at Notre Dame “After college I think I’m 
going to  law school,” Allare  
said.  
A s  a  p o l i t i c a l  s c i e n c e  

major, she has managed to balance the two worlds of athletics and academics, Big East 
Championship as a member of the starting five, which she remembers as her best individual college experi ­ence thus far. However, when it comes to her favorite part about playing Allare said. 
While her score may not count in the record books, that is not what counts when it comes to Allare’s partici­pation and memories with the Irish. 

Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 

Tuesday, October 12, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 




Jackson gets back on track 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Sports Writer 
After two-and-a-half years of what he calls “very little success,” senior Dan Jackson is in top form and is ready to lead the Irish to the 2010 NCAA Championships. 
“Last fall I had a dismal cross-country season and I came nowhere near accom­plishing my goals,” Jackson said. “I believe this was due to a lack of commitment to the sport. I didn’t realize just how much work it took to compete at the highest level.” 
After a year of training hard, Jackson has been a top runner for the No. 28 Notre Dame men’s cross country team. He led the Irish to a vic­tory at the National Catholic Invitational in September, fin­ishing second overall in 24:10. 
Jackson again finished first for the Irish at the Notre Dame Invitational, running in 
24:13. The Irish finished sev­enth overall, facing tough competition from No. 3 Oregon, No. 10 New Mexico, No. 15 Florida State, No. 21 Tulsa, No. 23 Penn State and No. 26 UCLA. 
“I’m very optimistic about the season after our two tune­up races at the National Catholic Meet and the Notre Dame Invitational.” Jackson said. “I was able to compete well even while training very hard in the days and weeks leading right up to the meet. Once I begin to rest more and let my legs and body recover I will be able to run even faster.” 

The Irish have several races in the upcoming month, including the Pre-National Meet and the Big East Championship, but Jackson is only thinking about the biggest stage. 
“I have my eyes set on only one race this season and that is the NCAA National Championship in Terre Haute, Indiana, on November 22,” he said. 
Jackson is confident in his ability to make it to the cham­pionships. 
“I believe my greatest strength as a runner is my body’s ability to withstand week after week of very hard training,” he said. “Durability is a great asset in a runner because consistency in train­ing is arguably the most important predictor of success in distance running. While most people have trouble run­ning 80 or 90 miles per week, I can easily run more than 100 for many weeks in a row.” 
After what he referred to as a “dismal” past, Jackson believes he is on the right track. 
“I ended the spring track season on a high note, finish­ing 20th in the country in the 10k at the National Championships,” Jackson said. “I now have the confidence and focus it takes to compete with the best in the NCAA.” 
In the time leading up to the NCAA Championships, Jackson will look to befriend and fellow runner Greg Meyer for inspiration. Meyer is the last American male to win the Boston Marathon. He finished the marathon in 2:09 in 1983. 
“Greg was a Boston Marathon champion in his day and was one of the greatest runners of his era,” Jackson said. “But more importantly, I look up to Greg because he is the toughest person I know. When he raced, he raced to win and wasn’t scared or intimidated by anyone he went up against.” 
Jackson plans to lead the Irish to the Championships in November and says they are ready to do just that. 
“Our team is improving every week right now,” Jackson said. “We are really going to surprise some people. We have some extremely tal­ented runners on the team that have had a lot of success in the 1500, Mile, and Steeplechase in the past, but who are now expanding that talent to the 8k cross-country course. It’s going to be excit­ing.” 
Beyond November, Jackson is looking forward to his favorite spring races. 
“I really enjoy running the 5k and 10k in the spring when we travel out to California,” he said. “The races there are always held at night under the lights. The cool evening weather and still air provide for very fast times, and the competition is always very good.” 
Jackson has high hopes for himself and for his team for the rest of the season. 
“I want to be the best possi­ble leader I can for this team,” he said. 
Contact Maija Gustin mgustin@nd.edu 



McGraw 
continued from page 20 
ly a great practice team, we had a lot of days where we felt that we didn’t get enough accomplished. I feel like since we had such a veteran team they were the type of team that knew they were going to get it done in the game. But this is a group that really wants to get it right.” 
Losing five seniors from last season might slow down some teams, but not this one. With a summer full of pick -up games, weight training, three freshmen and a finally healthy Devereaux Peters, these Irish players have come back stronger and faster than ever before. The driving force behind the increased Irish focus, however, seems to stem from Notre Dame’s doubters. 
“I think it’s people who don’t believe,” senior guard Brittany Mallory said. “I mean, we believe in our ­selves, we believe we can get far and I think it’s just, we’re so excited about this season. 
“You know we lost five good players, and we’re kind of a whole different team so we’ve just kind of got to prove our­selves, prove we can hang with everybody. We’re just a different team, different look, we have the same goals and everything. We just have to show everybody who we are.” 
Proving themselves means everything for this young Notre Dame team that McGraw feels is beginning to come together the return of two freshmen to practice. Natalie Achonwa, a Guelph, Ont., native and the first international player ever in the program’s history, com­peted with the Canadian Senior National Team in the 2010 FIBA World Championships for Women in the Czech Republic Sept. 23­Oct. 3. It was Achonwa’s sec­ond year being chosen for the team. Classmate Kayla McBride was busy this sum­mer competing for the USA U18 National Team that earned a gold medal at the FIBA U18 Americas Championship in Colorado Springs, where she started in all five games. With those two back on the court, McGraw sees a change in the chem­istry on the court. 
“Now, I really think they’re starting to gel as a unit, I think they’re really starting to have fun together, which is important,” McGraw said. 

“They’re pushing each other. They’re a competitive group, and I love that.” 
A prime example of this team’s attitude can be seen in senior forward Peters, who has missed time in all of her first three seasons due to two ACL tears. McGraw referred to her development from last season to be like “night and day.” 
“I think when you see her, you’re going to be really sur­prised,” she said. “Just look­ing at her, she’s in great shape, she has really worked hard in the weight room this summer, she is running the floor extremely well.” 
Peters also feels like she is in a better position than ever before and that she’s more prepared than she ever has been. 
“I’m just glad I can partici­pate in everything with them this year,” Peters said. “It’s really hard to come back in the middle of the season. A lot of times last year, [Coach McGraw] was on me because I wasn’t really an offensive presence, but I didn’t have the confidence that everyone else did. Now I’ll have more confidence to actually take somebody, or shoot if I’ m open, or on defense, little things.” 
Having something to prove also plays a lot into what Peters knows her team is ready to do. 
“I think we’re just a young, fresh team,” she said. “A lot of people think that’s a bad thing, because we graduated five people, and they think we’re young, we don’t really know any better. I think everybody’s just really excit­ed for this year.” 
Sophomore guard Skylar Diggins, who will be taking over as the lead point guard this year, is extra anxious to start the season as well, especially after a successful summer of learning one another’s playing style. 
“I’m just anxious. I’m ready to get out there,” she said. “I’m excited to get out there with this squad because I know that they want to win, they’re willing to learn, and they work hard in practice. You know, the cohesiveness of this team is amazing.” 
Notre Dame will begin its preseason Nov. 3 when it hosts Michigan Tech in an exhibition game and will start the regular season against New Hampshire on Nov. 12 at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 12, 2010 

Empty 
continued from page 20 
Although the Irish have generally received strong support from the local South Bend community, the contin­gent of students who lent their support in the early part of the season has been missing in recent games. Waldrum said that his play­ers feed off the energy brought by the students, which can be the difference in a tight game. 
“I think it’s important that they know that it’s difficult to come out here and not get supported,” he said. “We’ll keep plugging away, and see what we can do, but if the students have ideas, let us know.” 
The Rakes of Mallow, the newly formed student -run soccer support group that serves as the equivalent of the Leprechaun Legion, mobilized students earlier in the year to great success. The Irish took down then­No.8 Santa Clara in front of a nearly sold -out crowd of 2,229 on Sep. 3. Notre Dame battled the elements and emerged with a 1-0 victory. 
“That Santa Clara game, we couldn ’t have thanked them enough,” Waldrum said. “I think that’s one of the rea­sons we won — the players had goose bumps to see all the students out behind the goals, and the bagpipes, and a packed stadium. It’s that twelfth man that you need.” 
Since then, attendance has declined steadily, especially among student supporters. Attendance for Notre Dame’s 3-0 shutout of Syracuse reached 820, and only 1,166 fans were on hand Sunday for a thrilling 3-2 win over Rutgers on Senior Day. 
“I’m disappointed more for 
our kids who to come out here and play in an empty stadium,” Waldrum said. “I hope they start realizing that we ’ve got one of the best teams in the country here, and we’re fun to watch. 
Along with Marquette, the Irish have clinched a playoff berth and are undefeated through 7 games in confer­ence play. Although the Irish will play four consecutive road games to close out the season, Waldrum expects a strong fan contingent present when the Irish return to host the first round of the Big East championship. 
“It’s equally as hard on our players to play in front of a big crowd if they’re not used to it, ” Waldrum said. “We need to see [200] or 300 stu­dents turning out regularly. Maybe they’re saving it, and realizing that we’re always good, and [thinking] ‘we’ll be there to support you in the playoffs.’ ” 

Contact Chris Masoud cmasoud@nd.edu 




Atkins 
continued from page 20 
changeable parts, because that’s tricky to defend and hard to scout.” 
Joining the five seniors on the court, in some variety, will most frequently be sophomore ball pretty well and takes the pressure off just one guy being the ball-handler.” 
Yet, Brey’s track-record hints at Atkins taking on the load early in the season. Twice in Brey’s 10 seasons at Notre Dame he has handed the reigns over to a freshman: Chris Thomas in 2001 and Jackson in 2006. Both Thomas and 

forward Jack Jackson then 
“I do apprach it like
Cooley, sopho-brought the 
[I’ll be the primary ball
more forward ball up the Mike handler].” court for the Broghammer Irish for the and freshman next four years. 
Eric Atkins
guard Eric Atkins said he 
Irish guard
Atkins. anti cip ates 
Atkins played point guard in high school, and thus is the only player on Notre Dame’s roster to have experience exclusively at that position. But Brey hesitated to say Atkins would serve as the team’s pri­mary ball-handler from day one. 
“[Atkins] certainly needs to be a big part of things, because he’s the one true guy who has played that position,” Brey said. “With the five old guys, any young guy playing with them has a little cushion. … We have a group that handles the such a role in 
his future. 
“I do approach it like [I’ll be the primary ball handler],” Atkins said. “That is what coach is telling me right now. I just have to be ready for it when I step into the game.” 
Atkins will get his first chance to take the court on Nov. 1 against Marian University in an exhibition game. Notre Dame’s first regu­lar season game is on Nov. 12 against Georgia Southern. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 


Sandersadjustswithouttwin 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 

Over a decade ago, a father took his twin daughters out on a court and started feeding them tennis balls. At five years old, neither girl could hit a single one, but the dad never gave up. Now, both of these girls are col­lege athletes on full tennis schol­arships, and one of them calls Notre Dame home. 
Irish freshman Britney Sanders remembers many occa­sions of not wanting to play the sport that had taken over her life. 
“Tennis took up all my time and I never got to hang out with my friends. The only dance I went to in high school was my senior prom. I had practice six days a week,” Sanders recalls. “All I wanted was to be normal and not have tennis be my life.” 
Sanders and her twin sister, Nikki, began playing at a tennis academy as high school fresh­men, so when they joined the high school team sophomore year, they caught the school by surprise. Sanders remembers the semifinal game that year as her most memorable tennis moment thus far. After the sis­ters brought their underdog team to a winning level, they lost the first game in the semifinals. 
“It was one of the hardest moments in our season. We couldn’t believe that it was over. We cried with each other and it was then that we all realized how close we grew together,” she said. 
After that season, Sanders’ negative feelings about tennis changed as she realized her love for the sport. As she traveled to tournaments and played against athletes from all over the world, tennis transformed more than a stressful waste of time to some­thing that kept her fit and healthy. 
“I love pushing myself and having people push me, and I loved the fact that I had some­thing going for myself,” Sanders said. “I was doing something with my life.” 
Just as her dad pushed her as a little girl, a small push later on in life led Sanders to the place she is now. One day he came home with Rudy, the classic Notre Dame pull, and after put­ting off the old movie for days, she gave in. 
“I ended up crying at the end and falling in love with the movie,” Sanders said. “As soon as I watched it I wanted to go to Notre Dame.” 

Although her twin sister, Nikki is at Texas Tech, the two still hold a special bond. 
“I look up to my sister a lot. She will give it her all in matches and she won’t go down without a fight,” Sanders said. 
Although her sister did not join her with the Irish, Sanders has found plenty of sisters at heart. 
“I have seven other girls play­ing next to me wearing the same uniform I am and cheering me on. I’m not just representing myself anymore on the court,” she said. “I couldn’t have asked for a better team.” 
With only one college tourna­ment under her belt to date, the future is not set in stone, but Sanders is ready to take whatev­er comes her way. 
Contact Megan Finneran mfnnera@nd.edu 


Tuesday, October 12, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 






 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer



Sports
Tuesday, October 12, 2010 page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Atkins ready to take over reins from Jackson at point guard 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
A picture of Tory Jackson cel­ebrating and smiling still hangs in the Joyce Center Auditorium, but, make no mistake, the four-year starter at point guard will no longer serve as Notre Dame’s floor general. 
Instead, Irish coach Mike Brey heads into this season not knowing who will serve as his primary ball-handler in the season-opener on Nov. 12, or if he will even have the luxury of a primary ball-handler. 
“You lost the winningest class in school history, so certainly you’ve got challenges there,” Brey said during a press con­ference Monday. “I don’t know if there’s one guy that will replace [Jackson]. I think we have to replace that, and cer­tainly [graduated forward] Luke Harangody’s production 

— 
that has to be a group effort. But the ball handling and the leadership stuff is a concern.” 


Fortunately for Brey, while Jackson, Harangody — Notre Dame’s second all-time scorer 

— 
and guard Jonathan Peoples graduated, he now has the lux­ury of a five-member senior class, and that doesn’t even count walk-on senior guard Tom Kopko. 



“You’ve got five guys who are in their fourth or fifth years of college basketball,” he said. “We have a nucleus of guys back that have had some suc­cess together. We have five guys who are technically sen­iors who have been around a little bit, and so it’s a great group to try to build with and grow with.” 
Among those five seniors, four are listed at 6-foot-8: guard Scott Martin and for­wards Tyrone Nash, Carleton Scott and Tim Abromaitis. 

Guard Ben Hansbrough, at 6­foot-2, rounds out the class. Brey said this group of “old guys” will lead to match-up problems for Notre Dame’s opponents all season long. 
“If you look at the old guys, we have a bunch of them who are all the same size,” he said. “My theme is a lot of inter­changeable parts. … I would hope that we have some inter-
see ATKINS/page 18 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 


Narrow focus 
Irish, McGraw increase intensity for new season 

By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish were all excited smiles as they sported new uniforms Monday afternoon while taking team pictures during the Notre Dame Basketball Media Day, but there is much more going on behind the scenes with this team. 
They have something to prove, and with an intensity that Iri sh coach Muffet McGraw hasn ’t seen in a while, Notre Dame isn’t about to let any team stand in their way. 
“I’m really excited about this team because of their intensity and focus,” McGraw said. “This is a team that loves to come to practice, and I’m really looking forward to it. Last year we weren’t real-
see MCGRAW/page 17 


WOMEN’S INTERHALL 




Pangborn runs into playoffs 
By TORI ROECK, CONOR 
KELLY, LAURA COLETTI and 


IAN GARRAHY 
Sports Writers 

After a high-scoring, high-energy contest between two teams vying for playoff spots, Pangborn emerged with a 28­20 win over Lewis and proved that it deserves to move on to the postseason. 
The Phoxes (3-1) scored on the first possession of the game and never looked back. After getting sacked on the game’s first play by Lewis (2-2) senior defender Sarah Ceponis, who finished with three sacks on the day, Pangborn senior quarter­back Gabby Tate marched the offense down the field to set up a touchdown pass to sopho­more wide receiver Kristin Ruekert. 
The Phoxes didn’t let up on 
see RUEKERT/page 15 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 




Coach wants more attendance 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
With an NCAA Division I-record unbeaten streak of 73 consecutive games against Big East opponents, Irish coach Randy Waldrum has figured out what it takes to build up one of the strongest programs in the nation. However, he admits he still hasn’t mastered one of the final pieces to the puzzle — how to attract more students to the games. 
“Around the country, teams like Portland are drawing 4,000 and 5,000 [fans], ” Waldrum said. “We have big recruits coming in here and they see an empty stadium — it’s demoralizing.” 
see EMPTY/page 18 


MEN’S INTERHALL 


Defending champions fall to unbeaten Dawgs 
By KELSEY MANNING, ADAM LLORENS, KRISTEN LASAK, KATIE HEIT, MEGAN GOLDEN and DAVID KENNEY 
Sports Writers 
It was a defensive battle on Sunday as Alumni kept its perfect season intact by dethroning powerhouse Siegfried 6-0. 
Siegfried (2-1), the two-time defending champions, was frustrated by Alumni’s steady run game from the outset. On the Dawgs’ first drive of the game junior run­ning back and captain Dan Dansdill put Alumni (3-0) in the red zone with a pair of long rushes. Dansdill accu­mulated 60 yards rushing on the day. 

On fourth-and-goal, fresh­man quarterback Will Cronin ran it up the middle for a touchdown and sophomore kicker Dan Finan missed the extra point, giving the Dawgs a 6-0 lead that they would never relinquish. 
Alumni relied heavily on their run game with a total of 130 yards rushing to just 20 passing. 
“[The run game] is what’s been working for us in the past few weeks and we are very confident in it so that was our game plan today,” 
see CRONIN/page 13 



