the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students speak about Islamic life on campus 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

Muslims juggle religion, customs, class and culture at Notre Dame 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
Editor’s note: This is the first installment of a two-part series about Muslim students who attend the University of Notre Dame. 
Junior Hiba Ahmed wore a dress and leggings to class Friday, but by mid-afternoon, she was standing in the parking lot of the local mosque, dressed in traditional Pakistani cloth­ing. 
She used the reflection in her SUV’s window to wrap a scarf around her head, adjusting it so that it covered stray strands of hair, and headed up a small hill toward the door women use to enter the mosque. 
Ahmed, one of the few Muslim undergraduate stu­dents who attend Notre Dame, left her shoes at the door and entered the section of the mosque designated for women. 
“Women and men pray sepa­rately in order to try and mini­mize any distractions,” Ahmed said. “A very attractive woman could potentially be distracting to some guy while he’s trying to connect with God.” 
Though men and women are physically separated, the con­gregation prays aloud together, led by an imam, the Islamic version of a priest. 
Muslims from around the South Bend area trickled in during the service and sat down on the floor in the self-made rows of the congregation. Some wore more traditional Islamic clothing, while one boy wore his high school football jersey and a man attended in hospital scrubs. 
During the service, which lasted about 45 minutes, the congregation said verses of the Quran aloud as they repeated kneeling, bowing and putting their foreheads to the ground. 
“The kneeling and the bowing and putting our foreheads to the ground are a physical man-
see STUDENTS/page 4 



Alumnienjoyworkingforalmamater 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
Stephanie Mola graduated from Notre Dame in 2009 and moved to Florida to work for Johnson & Johnson, but a “Notre Dame itch” brought her back to South Bend a year later. 
“Along the way there just seemed to be a big part of me missing and a lot of it pointed me back here,” she said. “And this just kind of fell in my lap and seemed like the perfect fit.” 
Now, as the Notre Dame Alumni Association’s young alumni programs manager, Mola is one of many young graduates to work for her 
see GRAD/page 5 




Lyons hosts 17th 5k Mara Fox Run 

By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
What started out as a chilly morning broke into an interlude of sunshine just long enough for the runners to weave their way around the 5k Mara Fox course Saturday. 
Over 300 people partici­pated in the 17th annual Mara Fox Run sponsored by Lyons Hall, event co-com­missioners Melissa Buddie and Erika Miller said. 
During this brief burst of warmth, runners and volun­teers gathered to celebrate the life of Mara Fox, a freshman in Lyons Hall who was killed by a drunk driver on Nov. 13, 1993. Coming to Notre Dame from northern Virginia, Fox intended to study as a psychology and Spanish double major. 
The money raised from the run goes toward a schol­arship that supports stu­dents to study abroad in Toledo, Spain, where Fox had dreamed of traveling, Fox’s mother Teresa McCarthy said. 
“We’re now sending a minimum of two students 
see MARA/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER GRC hosts body awareness week page 3  Review of ‘The Social Network’ page 10  Womens soccer sweeps page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Monday, October 4, 2010 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Chris Masoud Sam Stryker Matthew Robison Nicole Toczauer Scene Graphics Maija Gustin Blair Chemidlin Viewpoint Photo Ren Brauweiler Dan Jacobs Sarah O’Connor 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Q: 
Give five words about your­self. Danny: Halo, Starcraft, no life, bros 

Q: 
What is your favorite color? Danny: I appreciate all colors. 

Q: 
If you could go on a date with any person, dead or alive, who would it be? Danny: Raquel Welch, the poster girl from the Shawshank Redemption. 




COLEMAN COLLINS/The Observer Leprechaun David Zimmer does pushups in a crowd of Notre Dame fans after Notre Dame’s second touchdown against Boston College during the game Saturday. 
OFFBEAT 
Las Vegas death ray endangers guests 
LAS VEGAS — MGM Resorts International is taking the heat for an intense beam of searing desert sunlight, jokingly dubbed the “death ray,” that some hotel guests say poses a risk of severe burns to bathers lounging poolside. 
The beam is actually a concentrated reflection of solar rays bouncing off the gleaming glass facade of the concave-shaped, high-rise Vdara hotel and con­dominium, which opened on the Las Vegas “strip” in December. 
Local media, as well as some hotel staff and guests, have come to refer 

Q: 
What could possibly be worse than cold weather? Danny: A lot of things. Genocide, torture, etc. 

Q: 
What’s the best part about going to Notre Dame? Danny: All the cool people. 


to the reflection as the “death ray,” but MGM Resorts officials prefer to call it a “solar convergence phenomenon.” 
“The refraction moves across the pool deck over a period 90 minutes,” com­pany spokesman Gordon Absher told Reuters. “It’s never in the same place from day to day or week to week because the sun its changing its elevation in the sky.” 
Cereal box accidentally lists sex hotline’s number 
CHICAGO — The tele­phone number pasted on boxes of cereal named for Cincinnati Bengals wide receiver Chad Ochocinco was supposed to be for a charity — but mistakenly directed callers to a sex line, the player’s agent said on Thursday. 
“The wrong number was given by the Feed the Children charity,” Ochocinco’s agent Robert Bailey said. “It’s a shame because it’s a good cause.” 
A portion of the $5 price of each box goes to the Feed The Children organi­zation, according to PBL’s website. 
In a tweet, the football player had directed fans to his own website and urged them to order his cereal, adding, “Start your day with a lil suga!!!” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

toDAY Tonight TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 





Danny Shapiro 
sophomore Keenan 

Know someone chill for Monday’s Icebreaker? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart will be holding a special Mass in honor of the Feast of St. Francis — Patron Saint of the Environment tonight at 5:15 p.m. The public is welcome to this free Mass. Afterward, there will be cel­ebratory nature-themed desserts available in North and South Dining Halls. 
The Office of Sustainability will be hosting “Catholics Confront Climate Change” tonight at 8 
p.m. in the Geddes Hall Coffeehouse. The public is wel­come to join in this free presenta­tion given by Dan DiLeo of the Catholic Coalition on Climate Change. The program is spon­sored by the Office of Sustainability, the Center for Social Concerns, the Department of Theology, and Campus Ministry. 
Online Regestration for Session 2 Swim Lessons will be open from 8 a.m. to midnight online via recsports.nd.edu. Students, faculty and staff are welcome to take this RecSports class held at Rockne Memorial Pool. The classes will begin Oct. 25 and end Nov. 21. 
Students. faculty and staff can still sign up for Work Off You Weekend personal training pack­ages. Each package purchased on any Monday until Nov. 29 will receive 10 percent off. This offer is available through RecSports. 
Free seasonal influenza vac­cines will be available Oct. 5, 6, and 7 through University Health Services. Students, faculty, staff, retirees and spouses of retirees are encouraged to get these at Stepan Center. Tomorrow, the shots will be available from 1 to 9 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 


Monday, October 4, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Saint Mary’s hosts annual Memory Walk 
By CAITLYN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s was a sea of pur­ple Sunday as it hosted the Alzheimer’s Association’s annu­al Memory Walk. 
This was Saint Mary’s second year hosting the event. Community members, students and faculty gathered in order to raise awareness for Alzheimer’s Disease, a brain disorder that destroys cells and leads to memory loss and death. 
According to Michael Sullivan, the director of Public Policy and Advocacy of Indiana’s Alzheimer’s Association, this year’s event attracted more walkers than last year, gather­ing around 150 people. 
“Alzheimer’s was declared the sixth leading cause of death,” Sullivan said. “Even if a cure cannot be found, just slowing the progress of the dis­ease will be beneficial.” 
Sullivan is a strong supporter of raising awareness, as well as advocacy for federal funding of Alzheimer’s treatment. 


The course of the Memory Walk ran throughout Saint Mary’s campus. 
“I always teach my children that education is key. It is the one thing that cannot be taken away from you.” Regional Director Melissa Barile said. “No. We are all wrong. Alzheimer’s can take all of our education — no matter when we learned it — away from us.” 
For this reason, Barile stressed raising awareness and funding for Alzheimer’s research is just as vital as edu­cation of the disease. 
“My biggest hope is that [the event] does raise awareness. I’ve been working with the Association for many years now and have visited many places, but each time it’s like I’ve just begun,” Barile said. 
“Awareness needs to increase. Education, education, educa­tion and support are key.” 
Sullivan said he hoped the event would raise awareness about the Association, as well. It provides educational servic­es, support groups, a 24-hour help line and more, all free of charge. The Association is the largest support group of the disease nationally and interna­tionally. 
Many Saint Mary’s students gathered to help provide sup­port and to remember loved ones who had the disease. 
Juniors Jessica Cross and Laura Wilkerson walked to remember their grandmothers. 
“I used to always do this with my family, but it’s my first time walking in South Bend,” Cross said. “It’s so nice to see a good turn out.” 
Joi Pugh, a Saint Mary’s soph­omore, walked to remember her great-grandmother. 
“I’m walking to raise aware­ness. It’s my first time partici­pating in the Memory Walk, and I’m very excited,” Pugh said. “I posted it to my Facebook, and I even signed up my roommate to walk with me.” 
Barile said she hopes to see the event grow bigger and big­ger every year. 
“If you could see the impact of the disease on the family — the children, grandchildren, no matter the age group, you would see just how many lives this disease affects and why it is so important to raise aware­ness now,” she said. 
Contact Caitlyn Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 

GRC holds annual body image week 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
For the seventh consecutive year, the Gender Relations Center (GRC), in alliance with several other on-campus groups and offices, willbe celebrating aweek toincreaseawarenessaboutbody imageandeatingdisorders. 
From today through Sunday, Body Image and Eating Disorders Awareness Week will host events throughout campus on a variety of topics within the larger discus­sion. 
“We want people and students talking to each other about body image,” Heather Racokzy Russell, program director for the GRC, said. “We don’t want them to be silent about these things. At the very least people will realize they don’t have to be alone in these things.” 
Finding Balance in College: How to do it with your Healthy Voice is the first women-only eventin the history ofthe weekis tonightatLegendsfrom 8:30p.m. to 10 p.m. The event will feature MeredithTerpeluk, aNotre Dame graduate and president of a well­ness and life coaching company. Russell said she will bring a unique viewpoint to the lecture because she knows what the environmentislikeoncampus. 
Tuesday night will feature the Mass of Healing at 10 p.m. in the DillonHallChapel. 
“The Mass of Healing puts a special Notre Dame spin on this kindofthing,”Russellsaid. 
The panel, Perfectly Disordered: Eating Disorders, Body Image and College Life, is Wednesday night in the Eck Center Auditorium. The panel willfeaturetalksfromstudentsas well as Valerie Staples, a staff psychologist from the University CounselingCenter. 
“This will offer a much broader perspective,”Russellsaid. 
Russell said attitudes at Notre Dame can serve a breeding ground for body image problems andeatingdisorders. 
“Notre Dame is an environment where competition and perfection runrampant,”shesaid.“Weneed to work together to overcome obstacles and head in the direc­tionofrecovery.” 
Public service announcement puttogether bythe Week’s organ­izers will run in Saturday’s foot­ballprogram. 
“Eating disorders are serious, life threatening illness — not choices,” the announcement states. “It is important to recog­nize the pressures, attitudes and behaviors that contribute to the development of eating disorders andbodyimageconcerns.” 
Russell saidthis is the first time the week has run anything in the football program, but she is hop­ingitwillhelpwiththecause. 
“Thepointisforoutreachtothe larger community,” she said. “This is an issue Notre Dame stu­dentsareconcernedabout.” 
More than 10 million females and 1 million males battles with an eating disorder, the announce­mentstates. 
“Some people perceive that Notre Dame students have it all together and that Notre Dame students wouldn’t battles these issues,” Russell said. “It’s actually much more likely with high-achieving students to experience theseissues.” 
Other events this week include a poster campaign and an event withAcoustiCafe. 
The poster campaign, called “This Is MyStudentBody,” is con­tinued from something student governmentstartedlastyear,sen­ior Mariah McGrogan said. McGrogan is co-chair of the Gender Issues Committee for Student Senate and works as a studentassistantwiththeGRC. 
“It’s an idea that takes inspira­tion from the Dove ‘Real Beauty’ campaign,” McGrogan said. “The ‘Real Beauty’ campaign is about not feeling anxiety about your naturalbeauty.” 
The posters have images of stu­dents, along with quotes and Notre Dame images to make the campaign speak to the campus aboutawareness. 
“The Week is a good healing experience for those who’ve dealt with eating disorders or body images issues,” she said. “But it’s alsoimportanttoraise awareness …We need to check ourselves with our language and dieting habits.” 
The AcoustiCafe event will fea­ture the regular musicians of AcoustiCafe with songs, spoken word pieces and information about body image and eating dis­orders. 
“The nice part about the AcoustiCafe event is we’re taking a signature staple event at Notre Dame and asking them to feature this issue,” she said. “We hope theregularsareexposedtosome­thing they wouldn’t have typically attended.” 
Russell said students should talk to someone if they are expe­riencing problems with these issues. 
“It’s so important for them to talktoonepersontheycantrust,” she said. “Not someone who will support putting them down when they say things like, ‘I feel fat.’ They needsomeone whothey can reachouttoforhelp.” 
The Week is sponsoredthrough the GRC, in collaboration withthe University Counseling Center, Student-Athlete Welfare and Development, Feminist Voice and studentgovernment. 
Visit grc.nd.edu for more infor­mation. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 4, 2010 
inquire about me to my par-

PILLARS, a group on cam-Alison Podlaski and senior ents, but I kind of have a veto 
pus aimed at increasing Caroline Green. The top fin-
Students 
Mara 
power now a days,” he said. 

alcohol awareness, and the ishers from Lyons included continued from page 1 “Or I can find my own person.” 
continued from page 1 Office of International freshman Meredith Houska But Malik still plans on mar-
Studies also worked to and senior Katie Sample. ifestation of the idea of devot-rying a Muslim girl. 
each spring,” she said. “One honor Fox’s memory by pro-Leading up to the race, ing yourself, worshiping and “It’s definitely probably going 
year we sent three.” moting the event. McCarthy McCarthy gave a speech in submitting to God,” Ahmed to be a Muslim girl,” he said. 
Each applicant must write said she is grateful to all the Coleman-Morse lounge said. “Ideally, I’d find someone 
an essay about how they participants, but especially on Friday night about what Attending mosque every myself, probably when I get out 
embody Fox’s characteristics Lyons rector Denise happened to her daughter. Friday is just one of several of college.” 
and how they would help McOsker, who has helped Buddie also said Lyons spon­customs Ahmed and other Though growing up in 
others while abroad. continue the event every sored a dance in the Muslim students carry out America and staying true to a 
McCarthy said Fox instinc-year. Monogram Room at the while attending Notre Dame. traditional religion can some­
tively knew she wanted to “I appreciate PILLARS Joyce Athletic and Ahmed, who considers her-times come into conflict, these 
help others. coming in, and these young Convocation Center. self to be slightly more than students said the key is bal­
“Eventually, when Mara women putting in the “The speech was fantas­moderately religious, prays five ance, and being comfortable 
got her degree she wanted amount of work that goes tic,” Buddie said. “We’ve times a day — fulfilling one of with their relationship with 
to work with children in the into this,” she said. “But I never had this before, and it the five pillars of Islam. God. 
Hispanic community,” she want to really thank Denise. was just a beautiful talk on “In the morning I actually For example, Ahmed said she 
said. Pointing to her heart, She’s been a very happy, what happened to Mara and make sure to get up 20 to 30 wore a short, strapless dress to 
McCarthy continued, “She faithful person all this why it’s important to run minutes earlier in order to pray her homecoming dance senior 
just had this great love for time.” this race.” and to read the Quran,” she year of high school, but wore 
people, and she knew it The race itself was a 5k Every year, Fox’s family said. “I read the Quran every tights and a cardigan with it. 
right from here.” that stretched down South and friends come to the morning.” “I’ve never felt bad about 
Buddie and Miller contact-Quad, wound around Saint race. McCarthy said this The additional four prayer who I am,” she said. “Each 
ed alumni and businesses to Mary’s and St. Joseph lakes year about 20 people came, times are around lunchtime, individual has to have the self 
further support this cause. and ended under the Lyons and she said Fox would midday, sunset and before confidence to be who they are 
With alumni donations, arch, a symbolic touch appreciate the cause her going to bed. Ahmed said she and still feel like they fit in.” 
funds gained from race reg-added by the co-commis-name has inspired. will spend anywhere from five The second installment of 
istration and sponsorships sioners this year. There was “Mara is with us here to 40 minutes praying each this series will examine how 
from several companies, also a Fun Walk for non-today. Her memory lives on, time. Muslim students experience life 
Buddie said more than runners. and for a good cause,” she “I think the minimum is five at a Catholic university. It will 
$3,000 was raised. These The male winners were said. “I know she would be to 10 minutes, if you are run in tomorrow’s Observer. 
companies included seniors Michael Hogan, Evan pleased with that.” rushed. You can make it much 
Chipotle, Between the Buns, Possley and Matthew Zak. longer than that,” Ahmed, who Contact Sarah Mervosh at 
Outback Steakhouse and The top females were senior Contact Nicole Toczauer at is a Sunni Muslim, said. smervosh@nd.edu 
Luna Bars. Laura Lindsley, sophomore ntoczaue@nd.edu 
Sophomore Sadaf Meghani, an Ismaili Muslim, which is a sect of Shia Islam, said she prays three times a day. 
“That’s more according to how we interpret the Quran,” she said. 
The Islamic religion separat­ed into two sects — Sunnis and Shias — due to differences in how Muslims in the 600s believed they should be led, and who should lead them, after the prophet Muhammad died. While major beliefs remain the same, the separa­tion resulted in slight differ­ences in how they pray, fast and interpret the Quran today, Ahmed said. 
Meghani said she does not attend the local mosque because it is more directed at the Sunni sect of Islam. 
“The closest place that I can pray is in Chicago,” she said. “So I’ve gone there once when I was here, but because it’s so far, I don’t really have time to make the trip.” 
Ahmed said her religion per­vades many aspects of her life, including how she dresses. Though she does not wear a scarf on her head, other than to the mosque, she always cov­ers up her legs and wears shirts with sleeves. 
“Technically I’m supposed to be covering my entire arms, my entire legs and wear a scarf, but just like anything else, the degree to which you practice your religion is a matter between you and God,” she said. “It’s a very personal issue.” 
Ahmed said in America, no one is forcing Muslim women to cover themselves and it is generally a personal choice. 
“It’s a very romantic idea to me the fact that the only man that will only get to see me with less clothing will be my husband,” she said. 
Islam’s ideas also affect how Muslim students relate to the opposite sex. 
Junior Yasir Malik said Islam prohibits one-on-one dating. 
“I’ve never had a girlfriend. I’ve never pursued a girl,” he said. “ It’s not supposed to hap­pen.” 
Malik, whose parents had an arranged marriage, said his parents discussed the option of doing the same for him. But he said he is “too American” to have an arranged marriage. 
“My parents will look for me and other people I know will 


Monday, October 4, 2010 The Observer  NEWS page 5 
EPA may lift wolf protection 

Associated Press 
BILLINGS, Mont. — Two decades after the federal government spent a half-mil­lion dollars to study the reintroduction of gray wolves to the Northern Rockies, lawmakers say it’s time for Congress to step in again — this time to clamp down on the endangered animals. 
To do so they are propos­ing to bypass the Endangered Species Act and lift protections, first enacted in 1974, for today’s booming wolf population. 

Critics say the move would undercut one of the nation’s premiere environmental laws and allow for the unchecked killing of wolves across the West. 
But bitterness against the iconic predator is flaring as livestock killings increase and some big game herds dwindle. 
And with state efforts to knock back the predators’ expansion stalled in court, senators from Montana, Wyoming, Idaho and Utah want to strip wolves of their endangered status by force. 
“When they brought wolves to Idaho, the Legislature voted against it, the governor didn’t want it and the Congressional dele­gation didn’t want it,” said Idaho Republican Sen. James Risch. “We didn’t want them in the first place. But we are prepared to deal with them as we see fit.” 


Grad 
continued from page 1 
alma mater. 
While Mola said she is happy to be back at Notre Dame, there are differences between being a student on campus and being an employee. 
For example, she said stu­dents are not necessarily aware of the number of peo­ple who work on campus as full-time University employ­ees. 
“Now I walk around and see all these people I work with that I didn’t really know existed before,” she said. 
One difficult part of return­ing to Notre Dame as an employee, Mola said, is sepa­rating herself from student life because she has friends who are still undergraduates. As a former Notre Dame soft­ball player, it is especially difficult for her to be on cam­pus but no longer playing with the rest of the team. 
“It’s hard to seem them. It’s hard to go by the field and hear about them going to practice, and I’m not going with them,” she said. 
Because Mola graduated recently, however, she said she is better able to do her job at the Alumni Association, where she organizes programs for both for current students and alumni who graduated within the past 10 years. 
Mola said she has also learned since she began working at the Alumni Association that people who work for the University, even if they are not alumni, are just as enthusiastic about Notre Dame as the student body. 
“I guess an easy parallel from both perspectives is Notre Dame’s pretty well-known for having great peo­ple,” she said. “Everybody here is so welcoming and wants you to do well, just like when you were a student.” 
Mola said she does not know what she will do in the future, especially since her current position is best filled by a young alum. She said she would be open, however, to other positions at the University. 
“I’ll tell you, I left this place once and it’s going to be hard to do it again,” she said. “So I can definitely see myself staying here for a long time.” 
John Whitty, a 2010 Notre Dame graduate who now works for the athletic depart­ment’s Joyce Grants-in-Aid Program, said he also experi­enced a transition from being a student to being a University employee. 
Unlike Mola, Whitty began working for Notre Dame immediately following gradu­ation. 
“I think it’s definitely a dif­ferent experience working for a university than attend­ing a university, but it’s been a good opportunity to see the different sides of the University as a whole,” Whitty said. “And I’m bummed that my card doesn’t work at the dining hall any­more.” 
He currently works with donors who give enough to the Athletic Department each year to fund one student ath­lete’s scholarship. 
Whitty did not plan to stay at Notre Dame following graduation, but he began working in the athletic department during the sec­ond semester of his senior year. 
“As the semester pro­gressed, I talked to my supe­riors and they expressed interest in keeping me,” he said. “It was pretty much too good of an opportunity to pass up. So I decided to stay here and it’s actually worked out pretty well.” 
Because he works for the athletic department, Whitty said the contrast between his life and that of undergradu­ate students is perhaps best exemplified on home football weekends. 
“I get to see a lot of insider stuff from places we take the donors, but it’s definitely not … the student weekend foot­ball experience,” he said. “I’m pretty busy on football weekends, but I definitely don’t get to tailgate.” 
Although he would like to go to graduate school for business or sports adminis­tration in the future, Whitty said he is happy in his cur­rent role at the University. 
“I like where I’m at right now, but I’m always open to options other places as well,” he said. “There’s no question that if there were positions available … I would stay at Notre Dame.” 
Sarah Rodts, also a 2009 Notre Dame graduate, began working for the University’s athletics media relations office following graduation. 
Rodts had planned to go to law school following gradua­tion, but said she realized last spring she was not pas­sionate about it. During the final semester of her senior year, she cancelled her plans to work at a law firm in Chicago and decided to work toward her dream of being a sports broadcast reporter. 
Now, she splits her time between two jobs: one at Notre Dame, and one at WNDU, a local television sta­tion. 
“In terms of whether or not I thought I would end up doing it last year at this time, absolutely not, … but as it’s all falling into place, it could not be more perfect,” Rodts said. “I’m learning a lot about athletics and how it is to work in the media, but then I’m on the other side of it, too.” 
Rodts said one of the high­lights of working for athletics media relations thus far was serving as the University liai­son to an Adidas production crew that came to campus on a football weekend to shoot a commercial. 
While it is difficult to tran­sition from student life to working 13-hour days, seven days a week, Rodts was pre­pared for the change. 
“I was going to have to sep­arate my undergrad life from the post-grad life,” she said. 
In addition, she said her busy work schedule does not allow her much time to miss being a student. 
Even though she was pre­pared to face this transition, Rodts said it is hard when she does not have time to see her friends who are still undergraduates. But her cur­rent positions are perfect for her planned career path, and she is happy to remain at Notre Dame. 
“I’m still so much a part of the University, and I don’t feel like graduation has made me any less a part of it,” she said. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 

page 6 The Observer  INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, October 4, 2010 
PAKISTAN 

Militants open fire on NATO supply route 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD —Suspected mil­itants attacked and set fire to at least 20 tankers carrying oil for NATO and U.S. troops in Afghanistan on Monday, the third such strike inside Pakistan inasmanydays,policesaid. 
The attack not far from the capital Islamabad took place on a supply line that has been stalled because of a temporary border closing imposed by Pakistani authorities to protest a NATO helicopter attack that killed three Pakistan troops last week. 
It will raise the stakes in the closure, which has exacerbated tensions between Washington andIslamabadbuthas been wel­comed by Islamist groups opposed to Pakistan’s support of the U.S.-ledwarinAfghanistan. 
Police officer Umer Hayat said three people were killed and blamed Monday’s attack on “ter­rorists.” 
The attackers opened fire on trucks that were parked at a poorly guarded terminal before setting them afire, he and other officerssaid. 
The trucks were en route or waiting to travel to the Torkham border crossing along the fabled Khyber Pass, which is used to bring fuel, military vehicles, spare parts, clothing and other non-lethal supplies for foreign troops in Afghanistan. Pakistan’s other main route into landlocked Afghanistan, in Chaman in the southwest, hasremainedopen. 
While NATO and the United States have alternative supply routes into Afghanistan, the Pakistani ones are the cheapest and most convenient. Most of the coalition’s non-lethal supplies are transported over Pakistani soil after being unloaded at docks in Karachi, a port city in thesouth. 
On Friday, a day after the clo­sure of the Khyber Pass route to NATO and US traffic, there were two attacks on oil tankers head­ed to the country. The Pakistani Taliban claimed responsibility for at least one of them, and vowedto launch more. 
Striking now gains them more media attention than normal and adds to unease between Pakistan andtheUnitedStates. 
The convoys take several days to reach the border after setting off from Karachi and make fre­quent stops. They receive little or no protection outside the frontier region and are indistinguishable from ordinary trucks and tankersthatplyPakistaniroads. 
Over the past two years they often have been attackedby mili­tants, mostly in the northwestern border region where militants are strongest. 
Attacks on convoys in Pakistan give militants a propaganda vic­tory, but coalition officials say they do not result in shortages in Afghanistan. Hundreds of trucks crossintoAfghanistaneachday. 
Some attacks are believed to be the work of criminals, who can sell much of the vehicles, clothes and other goods they carry. Officials have alleged truck owners may be behind some of the incidents, perhaps to claiminsurance fraudulently. 
PAKISTAN 

Intelligence ties Muslim militants to Europe 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD — Dozens of Muslim militants with European citizenship are believed to be hiding out in the lawless tribal area of northwestern Pakistan, Pakistani and Western intelli­gence officials say, training for missions that could include terror attacks in European capitals. 
Officials have used phone intercepts and voice tracking software to track militants with ties to Britain and other European countries to areas along the Afghan border. Al-Qaida would likely turn to such extremists for a European plot because they can move freely in and out of Western cities. 
Fear that such an attack is in the planning stage has prompted the U.S. State Department to advise Americans traveling in Europe to be vigilant. American and European security experts have been concerned that terrorists based in Pakistan may be plotting attacks in Europe with assault weapons, similar to the deadly 2008 shooting spree in Mumbai, India. U.S. 
intelligence officials believe Osama bin Laden is behind the plots. 
A senior official of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence agency, or ISI, told The Associated Press that there are believed to be “several dozen” people with European citizenship -many of Pakistani origin -among the Islamic extremists oper­ating in the lawless border area. 
The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not supposed to talk about classified infor­mation to the media, said foreigners in the area also include Chechens, Uzbeks, Arabs and Turks, one of whom was a former F-16 pilot in the Turkish air force. 
“That shows you that some of the people who are coming are very well educated,” he said. 
The official also said Pakistan authorities arrested four Russian jihadis who infiltrated into Pakistan along with their families. “It was very surprising for us but they come thinking this is the pure (Islamic) ideology that they are seeking,” he said. 
SPAIN 

Officialsworryabouttravelers 
Associated Press 

MADRID — A rare advisory for U.S. travelers to beware of potential terrorist threats in Europe drew American shrugs Sunday from Paris to Rome, but tourism officials worried that it could deter would-be visitors frommovingaheadwithplansto crosstheAtlantic. 
Thetravelalertisastepbelow a formal warning not to visit Europe, but some experts said it could still hurt a fragile European economy already hit hardbythedebtcrisis. 
“I think if someone was look­ing for an excuse not to travel, then this is just the ticket,” said George Hobica, founder of Airfarewatchdog.com. “However, I don’t think most people will alter their plans unless the threat is very specif­ic.” 
The State Department alert advised the hundreds of thou­sands of U.S. citizens living or travelingin Europe to take more precautions about their personal security. Security officials say terrorists may be plotting attacks in Europe with assault weapons on public places, simi­lar to the deadly 2008 shooting spreeinMumbai,India. 
Without aspecific threat, how­ever, American visitors were not letting the alert disrupt their travels. 
“We live in New York. So in New York we think about these thingsallthe time,” saidRichard Mintzer, a 55-year-old American visiting Italy with his wife. “I wouldn’t say we are particularly worried in Rome, no more than we would be at home, or any­whereintheWesternworld.” 
At Paris’ spring-summer 2011 ready-to-wear fashion shows, W magazine fashion market direc­tor Karla Martinez said she gets “worried for five minutes, but then I forget about it and get back to the job that I’m here to do. 
“It’s a little scary when you’re staying in a big hotel with lots of tourists, because we hear that couldbe atarget, butItry notto get too worked up about it,” she said. “At the end of the day all youcandoiskeepyoureyesand ears open and try not to be naive.” 
The nonprofit group IES Abroad sent e-mails Sunday warningabout1,500collegestu­dents in its European study abroad programs to avoid crowded tourist spots and hang­outs typically frequented by Americans. The message -also sent to the students’ parents ­also told students to leave public places if they see signs of trou­ble. 
“We say, ‘Be alert, cautious and aware of your surround­ings,’” IES executive vice presi­dent Bill Hoye said. “It means, ‘Don’t be totally plugged into youriPod.’” 
Hours after the e-mails were sent by the Chicago-based group, it had no sign of any stu­dents who wanted to drop out of theprograms. 
The impact on travel could deepen if the threat leads to new, tighter security measures, said Henry Harteveldt, a travel analyst for Forrester Research. Butthe U.S.-basedAir Transport Association, a trade group for the airline industry, said it expects“businessasusual.” 
United, Continental and Delta said they were operating as usual on Sunday without any cancellationsordelaysrelatedto theterror alert. The airlinessaid customers will be charged the usual penalty if they want to changeitineraries. 
Kevin Mitchell, chairman of the Business Travel Coalition, saidbusiness travelers willlikely keep their plans and hold onto nonrefundable tickets as long as the warningremains“fairlygen­eral.” 
“The biggest impact will be those people who right now haven’t yet made their plans,” Mitchell said. “They’re the ones who will forestall their decision until the situation is a little bit moreclear.” 
The travel alert noted in par­ticular “the potential for terror­ists to attack public transporta­tion systems and other tourist infrastructure.” 
“Current information suggests that al-Qaida and affiliated organizations continue to plan terrorist attacks,” it said. “European governments have taken action to guard against a terrorist attack and some have spoken publicly about the heightenedthreatconditions.” 
U.S. 
Sen. Charles Schumer, D­N.Y., stressed to reporters after talking to State Department and Justice Department officials that the alert “means be careful when you go, but they are not advisingyounottogo.” 

U.S. 
and European security experts have been concernedfor days about a terror attack simi­lar to the one in Mumbai, which left 166 people dead and target­ed two luxury hotels, a Jewish center, a popular restaurant and acrowdedtrainstation. 



Monday, October 4, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 

The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, October 4, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Call for compassion 
What started as scattered Facebook statuses on my homepage has erupted into an international news story. Tyler Clementi, a boy from my high school and a freshman at Rutgers University, 
committed suicide  
on Sept. 22. Tyler  Sara Felsenstein  
jumped off the  
George  News  
Washington  Production  
Bridge after his  Editor  
roommate and a  
friend of his  

roommate streamed a live video of him having a private encounter with anoth­er male, broadcasting the video to 150 followers on Twitter. 
The tragedy has deeply affected me, as I know it affects anyone who hears the story. It pains me that those stu­dents could be so cruel and reckless with someone’s life, and it pains me that Tyler was not able to see any future beyond such humiliation. 
The story has reached media outlets worldwide, including the front page of the New York Times, CNN International, the Ellen DeGeneres Show and thousands of websites and blogs. While I am glad it is getting immense coverage, Tyler’s unfortunate death needs to be more than something for people to talk about. Tyler’s story reminds us of the urgent need to pre­vent online harassment and abuse of social networking sites. 
Cyberbullying is a growing problem among young people, but it is one that is not taken seriously enough. People think of Facebook and Twitter as addicting social networking sites, not as harmful means for bullying. What makes cyberbullying so dangerous is that technology allows us to act on impulse, before conscience has time to settle. Online bullying can be done anonymously, making it easier to shake off responsibility for one’s actions. In addition, rumors and insults can spread virally, making the effects of bullying exponentially more severe. 
The intolerance Tyler Clementi endured is devastating, yet his case is not an isolated one. Similar instances of bullying occur constantly. The Internet can be used as a forum for discrimina­tion, but misinterpretation can also cause unintentional offenses. Before you broadcast an opinion online, whether via tweet or Facebook status update, consider your audience, and consider how your words could be understood out of context. In a digital arena where information is posted, bookmarked, tweeted, “liked,” copied, sent and forwarded, what you put out for the world to see cannot be taken back. Remember that the ease of press­ing the “post” button does not always match up with the magnitude of the consequences. 
Tyler’s parents said in a statement, “Regardless of legal outcomes, our hope is that our family’s personal tragedy will serve as a call for compas­sion, empathy and human dignity.” This call for compassion is imperative at col­lege campuses, where students are still developing their identities and any blow to one’s reputation can seem absolutely overwhelming. We must make a con­centrated effort to be open and accept­ing towards everyone, and we must be conscious of how far our words can go, especially on the Internet where the line between public and private is blurred. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
Invasion of privacy 
During the Tiger Woods fiasco, some people (myself included) were outraged at how much the media was allowed to invade the privacy of a person of celebrity status. I wrote for my high school newspa­per: “NPR com-
Alex Coccia
mentator Frank Deford said it best that the Shard of Glass media is pro­tected by the ‘First-and-a half Amendment: a combi­nation of freedom of the press and the right to shoot from the hip.’ I am ashamed that the American people are hearing more about Tiger Woods’ per­sonal life than of matters of national and international importance to the safety and security of our world. I am ashamed that the tabloid media can record a chip shot at the 16th hole of the Masters and then turn and use the cameras to invade Tiger’s privacy off of the golf course.” 
But, some would argue, Tiger’s celebrity status allows that level of scrutiny by the media — he put himself in that position. 
Tyler Clementi, a freshman at Rutgers University, was no such public celebrity, and yet, the dark and malicious act per­petrated by his roommate Dharun Ravi and friend Molly Wei was an invasion of Tyler’s privacy well beyond the excesses of the media. Ravi and Wei turned on Ravi’s webcam from another room to view Clementi having a private encounter with another man. Ravi and Wei transmitted this video over the internet. After discovering what his roommate and friend had been doing, Clementi took his own life by jumping off of the George Washington Bridge. On Sept. 22, his final post on Facebook read, “jumping off the gw bridge, sorry.” Clementi did not put himself in the position for his privacy to be invad­ed. He was not a celebrity — in fact, as a freshman he was hardly known on campus. 
Ravi and Wei have been charged with invasion of privacy, which carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison. Gay Rights groups are lobbying that this case be viewed legally as a hate-crime. Politicians in New Jersey are trying to push through legislation that would raise similar offenses to sec­ond-degree offenses with a maximum of 10 years sentence and fines of $150,000. 

When it comes to the internet and pri­vacy, most people are cautious of mal­ware, spyware, cookies, phishing, search records, password protection and the nature of information that we ourselves share on social networking sites. With all of these possible dangers, the least we should be worrying about is our own roommate. Clementi trusted his roommate by asking him for the room until midnight. Ravi abused Clementi’s trust, and made a sport of it. 
There should be no “good guy” defense for Dharun Ravi, who as a legal adult, and a student brilliant enough to attend Rutgers University, should know full well the inappropriateness and evil behind his actions. There is no excuse for what he did, and for what Wei helped him to do. Ravi’s actions exposed the seriousness of invading someone’s privacy for personal entertainment. Technology makes it easier to invade a person’s privacy but it does not make it right. What Ravi thought was funny cost a young man his life. 
Rutgers University kicked off a pro­gram called Project Civility on Sept. 29 
— the day that police pulled Clementi’s body from the Hudson River. The goal of the program is to have panel discus­sions, lectures and workshops which discuss the importance of compassion when it comes to social interactions. One of the planned panel discussions addresses appropriate behavior with changing technology. This is a good endeavor by a university which has been the cornerstone of many Progressive changes over the years. While too late for Clementi, this pro­gram, by touching on Clementi’s death, will hopefully prevent future actions like Ravi’s from occurring. In a video pro­moting Project Civility, a Rutgers profes­sor says, “I cut young people some slack. When you’re young, you have so many prejudices, that’s part of growing up. But you have to unshed them.” This unshedding of prejudices must be part of the individual’s understanding of social decency, but it must also be the responsibility of the university to help students unshed their prejudices. Hopefully, Project Civility is a start for Rutgers. Rutgers, and any university, must do more than talk the talk. 
Ravi’s invasion of Clementi’s privacy is unfortunately something that could happen at any university, even Notre Dame. Clementi’s death is one of five suicides or attempted suicides of gay or perceived gay teens in recent weeks thought to be a result of harassment and bullying. Universities across the country must ensure that discriminato­ry activities against homosexuals are unacceptable behavior, and must foster a wider acceptance of GLBTQ students and groups. Whatever prejudices exist in students as they enter college, uni­versities have the obligation to expand their knowledge and deepen their understanding to help them overcome those prejudices. Then, such social indecency would hopefully be curbed. 
There is a degree to which one should be careful of what he or she makes pub­lic, whether on Facebook, MySpace or Twitter. But more importantly, leave me my privacy, and I will leave you yours. 
Saturday was homecoming week at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, 
N.J. There was a moment of silence for Tyler at the football game Saturday, and a candlelight vigil Sunday. Please, take a moment for yourself, go to the grotto, reflect, and pray for Tyler Clementi. 
Alex Coccia is a freshman. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Exciting week for A&L majors 
I went to college in a recession. I was a history major and graduated during the economic downturn of 1982 in the midst of chaos in the real estate mar­ket. Interest rates were 18 percent, my dad lost his job in Lorain, Ohio and I took out more college loans to make it through my senior year. I experienced stress, anguish, loss of confidence in my career and wondered why the job mar­ket was so brutal for people like me. 
I only wish my college had a series of events for liberal arts majors like Notre Dame has scheduled this week. Events and career advising support like these programs would have helped me a great deal to focus on my skills, under­stand the vast array of careers open to A&L majors and prepare me for the competitive application process in a 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“There is no revenge so complete asforgiveness.” 
Josh Billings 
U.S. humorist 

tough job market. I didn’t have access to paid internship programs where my college could provide stipend monies for me to gain experience in the real world before college. But today, I am proud to be leading a career operation at Notre Dame where we can give back to students who have opportunities that I did not have in the early 1980s. 
The Notre Dame Career Center and College of Arts and Letters will host the Second Annual “What’s Next?” Week for Arts and Letters Majors the week of Oct. 4-7. This event will feature repre­sentatives from companies such as AT&T, Cummins, Department of Homeland Security, eLoyalty, Google, Keurig, McKinsey, Starcom, Target, The Orr Fellowship and Towers Film Production. 

Schedule of Events: 
Monday, Oct. 4 Exploring, Finding and Funding Your 
Internship 6:30-8:00 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom Wednesday, Oct. 6 Thinking About Graduate and 
Professional School 6:30-8:00 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom Thursday, Oct. 7 Landing Your Job or Internship: 
Employer Presentations and Career Networking Night 6:30-8:30 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
Lee Svete 
director Career Center Oct. 3 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The weak can never forgive.Forgiveness is the attribute of thestrong.” 
Mahatma Gandhi Indian spiritual leader 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Monday, October 4, 2010 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

My cold, dead hands 
Mr. Ryan Williams attempts to argue in the founding fathers probably did not his viewpoint entitled “A Safer World have the AK-47 in mind when writing Without Guns” (Sept. 30) that we should the Constitution, but they believed that have stricter gun control laws to elimi-an armed populace was the best way in nate the chances of shooting tragedies preventing a despotic government from across the nation from happening. He taking advantage of the people. To quote claims that there is a causal relationship George Mason, one of the Fathers of the between taking automatic weapons Bill of Rights, “To disarm the people is away from the hands of citizens and a the most effectual way to enslave them.” decline in gun violence. Quite simply, By not allowing citizens an available that is ridiculous. Removing any sem-degree of weaponry also openly accessi­blance of a threat posed to criminals by ble for potential enemies, the govern-ordinary citizens will only make the ment is essentially disarming the popu­problem worse by allowingthe perpetra-lation. Armed citizens are absolutely a tors to hold the most firepower. means to quell the ambitions of a tyran-Outlawing automatic weapons will have nical government. Perfect examples of little effect on the ability of criminals to this include Nazi Germany and obtain them on the black market. If they Communist China, where Hitler and Mao want a gun, they’ll get it somehow. I made private weapons confiscation a top want to have a proportionality of force priority. equalto any criminalI may encounter. To echo the words ofthe late andgreat 
Mr. Williams doubts the need for an Charlton Heston, the only way to take automatic weapon to accomplish the personal firearms is from “my cold, dead task of defending the home. What he hands.” I hope Americans never forget fails to understand is that home is much this. more than just a physical place on a map. It is our families, our liberties and Kyle Retzloff our valued American way of life that senior could potentially come under attack Zahm Hall from enemies foreign and domestic. No, Sep. 30 
Fear is the only thing to fear 
The moment I heard that there was ic tower. In front of him would be a a gunman on the University of Texas statue. Williams could walk to its the cacophony of the law school com-base, crouch down, and put his finger mons faded away. All hope of catching in the bullet hole there. That bullet up on my reading was forgotten. hole was caused by an ordinary, bolt-
I did my undergraduate work at action hunting rifle. This particular Texas. I lived in a dorm adjacent to rifle was used by Charles Whitman to the library for four years. I still have kill 13 people in a shooting spree friends and family that go to school at from the top of the tower on August 1, Texas. My cousin studies at the 1966. Williams’ own example, the library every morning, but she decid-Virginia Tech massacre, was commit-ed not to that morning. ted with two pistols. 
I sympathize with Ryan Williams’ My point in writing this letter is not clarion call in last Thursday’s to argue for freedom to own assault Observer (“A safer world without weapons. Rather, I would like to con-guns, Sept. 30) for an assault clude with a call for reason before we weapons ban. My issue with his rea-restrict our freedoms. If we allow fear soning is that “freedom from fear” is of violence to be our sole arbiter, then impossible. If we want a world where I have given Williams justification in we are largely free to make our own banning all guns. Whatever the choices, then we must accept that Founding Fathers intended, it was not someone may chose to pick up a gun that. Franklin Delano Roosevelt had with malice in their heart. If a choice another quote about fear that it is is forced between freedom and safety, appropriate to close with — the only let’s err on the side of freedom. thing we have to fear is fear itself. 
Motivated individuals don’t need extraordinary firearms to wreak Alex Blair havoc. If Williams were ever to visit law student the UT, I would encourage him to Fischer Gradudate Residences stand in the plaza in front of the icon-Oct 1 
Are the fans tough? 
A Notre Dame fan since 1944, a grad enough of Notre Dame’s 2010 fans student ‘56-’58, I well remember going tough, or just urbane? One can be both to pep rallies because, even though my urbane and tough, polite and implaca­loud voice worked as an undergraduate ble. cheerleader’s in Madison Square Football may be only a game, and I Garden, in the old Navy fieldhouse believe representing Our Lady’s school when cheering at the top of my lungs well is even more important than win-next to undergrads, I could not hear my ning. But it’s the fans’ responsibility to own shouting. Is it like that any more? cheer the team on, relentlessly, not to 
Where are the students who are to perform admirably but to win, and for greet the team on the stadium stair-the other team to lose. Do today’s case? Where is the clamor meant to undergrads agree? destabilize the enemy? Are the tickets so pricey that the average attendee is Frank Henninger no longer a vociferous fan but one alumnus come only to witness talented football? Class of 1958 The sport is grimy, sweaty, tough. Are Sept. 30 
If guns are outlawed... 
Dear Ryan Williams (“A Safer miss the attacker with your first World Without Guns,” Sept. 30), shot, well, game over. With a semi-
You seem to believe that an AK-47 automatic weapon, this risk is can be used in a Tony Montana-style averted because it will reload auto-shootout on a room full of people. matically. An AK-47 has a magazine capacity Now, one question remains: that is of 30 rounds, with a fully automatic whether or not it should be legal to rate of fire of 600 rounds a minute. own a semi-automatic rifle as This means that if someone were to opposed to a pistol. Now, I personal-happen to successfully empty an ly believe semi-automatic rifles entire AK-47 magazine on full auto, should be legal considering that his or her magazine would be from a long range, rifles are signifi­entirely empty in only three sec-cantly more accurate. This ability onds. could certainly be proven necessary 
However, this is entirely moot, in some cases. Simply put, restric­considering fully automatic tions on owning firearms will not weapons are not legal for civilian prevent criminals (prepared to purchase in the United States. Now break laws against robbery and that we have established this, you murder) from breaking laws against also seem to be opposed to the pur-gun ownership. In order to protect chase of even semi-automatic ourselves against these people, weapons. If someone were to invade semi-automatic gun ownership a house, approach you on the street, could prove very necessary. or, even better, open fire on your school, with a weapon, and you Michael Martinson were to have a single-or double-junior action revolver, or a bolt-or pump-O’Neill Hall action firearm, and you happened to Sept. 30 
Arms offer protection 
This letter responds to Ryan citizen’s right to carry a handgun Williams’ Sept. 30 editorial column for protection, Florida, Texas and “A safer world without guns.” Mr. Michigan have all experienced a Williams concludes the United decrease in average murder rates States would be safer if government larger than the simultaneous disarmed citizens of all automatic decrease in the national average and semi-automatic rifles and hand-murder rate. guns. A reasoned look at these FBI sta-
A ban like Mr. Williams suggests tistics reveals American citizens are would effectively prevent citizens considerably safer when their natu­from defending themselves from ral, God-given, Constitutional right attack. Bans like this have been to defend themselves is upheld — imposed by American cities and by not infringed upon — by the govern-national governments; in each ment. Law-abiding citizens can be instance, gun control has led to disarmed, but criminals will always higher murder rates. illegally obtain guns as they do now. 
In 1976, the Washington, D.C. City To restore the “common sense and Council banned citizens from pos-sanity” Mr. Williams calls for, sessing handguns and operational American citizens should look to weapons. Between 1976 and 2008, firearms for protection. The adage the D.C. murder rate was, on aver-“When seconds matter, the police age, 73 percent higher than before are only minutes away” strikes a the weapons ban. The Washington, chord when considering the recent 
D.C. murder rate fell 23 percent in incidents at Virginia Tech and 2009 after the U.S. Supreme Court Northern Illinois University. These declared the ban unconstitutional. tragedies might have been prevent-
In June 2010, the Supreme Court ed if faculty and students were declared the Chicago handgun ban allowed to defend themselves with unconstitutional. From the begin-the same weapons used to murder ning of the ban in 1982 through its them. overturning, the percentage of An estimated 2.5 million Chicago murders committed with Americans each year defend them-handguns had been, on average, 40 selves, their families and their prop-percent higher than before the ban. erty with firearms. Since the outset of the Chicago Check out nraila.org/armedcitizen handgun ban, the Chicago murder for their stories. rate has averaged 17 percent lower than before the law took effect, Kyle Sladek while the U.S. murder rate has aver-sophomore aged 25 percent lower. St. Edward’s Hall 
After passing laws that protect the Oct. 1 
We still are ND 
Dear Jocelyn and the other Notre Dame Students who snuck into the Boston College Student Section, 
Thank you for proudly sporting the Irish colors. Thank you for cheering on the football team. Thank you for standing proud as Boston College stu­dents threw hot dogs and beer bottles at you and dumped their drinks over your head. And the alumni question our support? As the senior shirts read at Boston College, “For here all are one.” 
Katie Dorociak 
senior 
off campus 
Oct. 3 
The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Monday, October 4, 2010 


By ALEX KILPATRICK 
Scene Writer 

Highly lauded as the film that defines the past decade, “The Social Network” meets, if not rises above, expectations. David Fincher’s film tells the story of Facebook’s founding, adapted from Ben Mezrich’s 2009 nonfiction novel “The Accidental Billionaires.” 
The drama not only represents the online phenomenon with strikingly hon­est theatrics, but much of the movie con­trasts the social aspects of college with the narcissistic, albeit ingenious, misan­thrope that is the social network’s founder MarkZuckerberg. 
Well portrayed by Jesse Eisenberg, Zuckerberg’s character is depicted as ironically lonely and shy but cocky at the same time. In spite of his best efforts to connect with the college social scene during his Harvard years, he finds him­self incapable of maintaining any close personal friendships, instead uniting hundreds of millions of individuals in 207 countries using 70languages. 
The film is appropriately set to propul­sively chilling background music by Nine Inch Nails founder Trent Reznor and music producer Atticus Ross. The sound­track drives the movie with the pair’s eerie musical energy without distracting from the plot and character develop­ment. 
Fincher manages to develop his com­plex characters in such a way that the audience is unsure of many of the char­acters’ likeability throughout the course of the movie. Zuckerberg’s friend and roommate Eduardo Saverin (played by British actor Andrew Garfield) sways the audience’s sympathies as the Facebook lawsuit’s intelligent but likeable victim, emotionally appealing to viewers in con­trast with Zuckerberg’s often appallingly cold misogynistic nature. 
It’s made clear from the beginning that one specific social resentment led Zuckerberg to start the website that led to his billionaire status. The film opens with Zuckerberg getting dumped by his girlfriend Erica (played by Rooney Mara), at a Harvard undergrad bar in the fall of 2003, who sharply claims that going out with him is “like dating a Stairmaster.” 
Feeling angry and rejected, Zuckerberg takes revenge by hacking into the Harvard network and inventing Facemash, a website that allows stu­dents to vote on which Harvard girls are most attractive and crashes the universi­ty’s system with 22,000 hits in two hours. 

The site attracts the attention of elite Harvard rowers and identical twins Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, por­trayed by unrelated actors Armie Hammer and Josh Pence with the help of computer wizardry. For the shots where both faces can be seen on the screen, Hammer’s face was digitally superim­posed onto Pence’s body. 
The Winklevoss twins enlist Zuckerberg to help work on Harvard Connection, an online dating service they would like to start. Simultaneously, Zuckerberg asks his best friend Saverin to fund and help with the business details of a new site, “thefacebook,” the raw beginnings of the social network that we allknow andlove today. 
Much of the film takes place around the founders’ conflicts over intellectual property and the lawsuits that arise from the power struggles, brought against Zuckerberg both by the Winklevoss twins and by Saverin. The struggles over power are what drive the movie and many of the central characters, while the audience attempts to discover what truly motivates the calculating mastermind behind the largest online social network andthe world’s youngest billionaire. 
Napster co-founder Sean Parker (con­vincingly portrayed by Justin Timberlake) is introduced halfway through the movie as Zuckerberg’s para­noid mentor, who contributes and even­tually involves himself in the Facebook business but also resolutely divides the friendship between Zuckerberg and Saverin. Timberlake does an excellent job of depicting his character as strongly dislikeable. 
As for Zuckerberg’s opinion of his own depiction in the film, he said, “I just wished that nobody made a movie of me while I was still alive,” according to CNET News. In a recent interview on The Oprah Winfrey Show, when asked about the movie, he replied, “A lot of it is fiction, but even the filmmakers will say that. They’re trying to build a good story … [And] this is my life, so I know it’s not that dramatic. The last six years have been a lot of coding and focus and hard work.” 
Whether or not the movie is entirely authentic to the true events surrounding Facebook’s founding, the film seems hon­est, which is what makes it a well-made drama. The dynamic character develop­ment, impeccable script, excellent direc­tion, appropriately chilling soundtrack and fine acting all around are what makes “The Social Network” the defining film ofthe MillennialGeneration. 
The Social Network 
Columbia Pictures Director: David Fincher Starring: Jesse Eisenberg,Andrew Garfield, Justin Timberlake,Armie Hammer, Rooney Mara 

Contact Alex Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 


BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Monday, October 4, 2010 page 11 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, October 4, 2010 
NFL 

Vick injured, McNabb leads ‘Skins in Philly 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — That hard­ly looked like Donovan McNabb taking snaps at the Linc, and it had nothing to do with his bur­gundy and gold jersey. 
McNabb threw for 125 yards and one touchdown, leading the Washington Redskins to a 17-12 victory over the Philadelphia Eagles on Sunday in his first game against his former team. 
Michael Vick was forced out in the first quarter with chest and rib injuries in his first start in front of the hometown crowd. Kevin Kolb, who was supposed to be McNabb’s successor all along, replaced Vick after losing his starting job because he got hurt in Week 1. 
So, the McNabb-Vick show­down turned into the McNabb-Kolb matchup everyone origi­nally anticipated. But this one didn’t live up to the hype. 
On a field where he made so many dynamic plays throughout his career, McNabb looked more like a game-manager than an elite player. A six-time Pro Bowl pick in 11 seasons with the Eagles, McNabb didn’t get much of a chance to showcase his skills because Redskins coach Mike Shanahan stuck with a conservative approach and relied on the ground attack. 
“You get into a throwing game specially here, in this environ­ment with the crowd, usually you’re in for a long day,” Shanahan said. “So you have to establish the run.” 
That meant McNabb turned around and handed off — again and again. It’s an unfamiliar role for McNabb, who used to throw more than any quarter­back when he played for the Eagles. 
Washington had 169 yards rushing, including 55 by Clinton Portis before he left with a groin injury. Ryan Torain had 70 yards rushing and one TD. McNabb threw just 19 passes, completing eight and getting intercepted once. 
The only stat that matters is the win. 
“The relief I got was that this is over, that the whole hoopla and coming back to Philadelphia is over,” McNabb said. 
The Redskins (2-2) snapped a two-game losing skid, improv­ing to 2-0 in the NFC East. The Eagles (2-2) are winless at home. 
McNabb ran onto the field with the rest of his team during pregame introductions. When his name was announced, he got a standing ovation. McNabb patted his heart and raised his right hand up to salute the crowd. He then hugged Vick, who signed with the Eagles last year after McNabb lobbied for him. 
McNabb had a love-hate rela­tionship with Philly fans, so many wondered what type of reception he would receive. While some outside the stadium booed and carried signs that read “McChoke,” it was an overwhelmingly positive response inside the Linc. 
“You realize you spent 11 years here and I knew it was coming,” McNabb said. “I didn’t expect them to cheer the whole game. That wouldn’t be right. I was happy with the way they gave me a standing ovation at the beginning. I think all of the quarterbacks got booed today.” 
McNabb led the Eagles to five NFC championship games and one Super Bowl — a 24-21 loss to New England in Feb. 2005. He was traded to Washington in April, paving the way for Kolb to be the starter. 
But Kolb sustained a concus­sion in Week 1, and Vick played so well he forced coach Andy Reid to make a flip-flop decision and keep him in. Now Vick’s status is uncertain and it’s unknown what Reid will do when he’s healthy. 


Vick, who did not speak to the media, will have an MRI Monday. 
“I know he’s sore, I can tell you that, or else he would have been out there,” Reid said. 
Kolb said he was no given no indication that he might start next week at San Francisco. He briefly spoke with Vick about the injuries. 
“He just said he was in some pain and explained the injury just a little bit,” Kolb said. “He just said he was sore.” 
Kolb threw a 5-yard touch­down pass to Brent Celek to get the Eagles within 17-12 with 4:10 left. The 2-point conver­sion failed when Kolb’s pass fell incomplete. 
On Washington’s next posses­sion, McNabb scrambled 18 yards on third-and-4 to keep the drive going and allow the Redskins to run the clock down a little more. The Eagles got the ball back at their own 26 with 
1:07 left and no timeouts. Kolb’s first throw should’ve been intercepted, but it was dropped by Carlos Rogers. 
Kolb then drove Philadelphia to the Redskins 32, a double-lateral after a short pass got the Eagles there. But Kolb’s desper­ation heave into the end zone on the final play bounced out of Jason Avant’s hands and was intercepted by DeAngelo Hall. 
Kolb finished 22 of 35 for 201 yards and one TD and one interception. 
McNabb handed off five straight times before attempting his first pass, a deep one to Fred Davis. The ball was slight­ly behind a wide-open Davis, who let it go through his hands. On his next pass later in that drive, McNabb made a perfect throw over the middle to Chris Cooley for a 31-yard touchdown and a 14-0 lead. 
MLB 

Braves win fnal game, earn playoff berth in Cox’s fnal year 
victory over the Philadelphia side. as fans chanted “Bobby! San Francisco in the opener of 
Associated Press 

Phillies on Sunday. “We fought and we fought and Bobby!” a best-of-five series. 
ATLANTA — Bobby Cox was “This being Bobby’s last year, we fought,” Hudson said of the Rookie Jason Heyward and The Braves won 14 straight drenched with beer and cham-losing today was not an option,” 91-win season that included a other players had high-fives for division titles with Cox but had pagne and hoisted onto the Hudson said. nine-game losing streak in April fans. missed the playoffs since 2005. shoulders of his players after After the win, the Braves and season-ending injuries to “This is what it’s all about,” There was a postgame REO the Atlanta Braves gave their watched on TV as San Chipper Jones, Martin Prado said closer Billy Wagner, who Speedwagon concert at Turner manager a final trip to the play-Francisco beat San Diego 3-0, and Kris Medlen. struck out the side in the ninth. Field, and a few hundred fans offs. giving the Braves the NL wild “I know there’s not a team in “You play all year long and it remained after the concert to 
Atlanta reached the postsea-card by one game over the this league that’s got more comes down to the last game watch the Giants’ win on the son as the NL wild-card team, a Padres. heart than us,” Hudson said. and you get the champagne video board. They chanted and first for Cox, as Tim Hudson The players sprayed cham-Hudson, Matt Diaz, Derrek shower.” cheered after the final out as and the Braves took a six-run pagne in the clubhouse and Lee, Peter Moylan and others Atlanta will start the playoffs bubbly was sprayed in the lead, then held on for an 8-7 then took the celebration out-lifted Cox onto their shoulders Thursday at NL West champion Braves’ clubhouse. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we

FOR SALE FOR RENT WANTED can help. For more information, visit
PERSONAL 
Notre Dame's website: 

AVAILABLE NOW 4BD/2BA HOME http://csap.nd.edu. Please email for info regarding 8 IRISH CORNER APARTMENTS FOR RENT. 1.5 miles from ND 574-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't ND/WMU Football tix for sale -New upscale apts. Less than 1 mi 876-6333 go it alone. Notre Dame has many ——————————————— jeannemartinez@hotmail.com from ND, next to Taco Bell on resources in place to assist you. If Aspiring Banker: So, do you want to 
SR933. Fully furnished apts w/gran-——————————————— Earn $1000-$3200 a month to drive you or someone you love needs make some money? ——————————————— ite countertops, GE appliances our brand new cars with ads placed confidential support or assistance, Gordon Gekko: I just got out of jail 
w/dishwasher. Each has 2bd/2bath. NOW RENTING 2011-12 4BD/2BA on them. www.AdCarDriver.com please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 for that. No thanks. Need Help With Math? Algebra; Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. No HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBOR-or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more Bud Fox: You are Mr. Lame. Calculus; GRE $20/hour; first ses-water/sewer bill. $1000/mo starting. HOODS 574-876-6333 information, visit ND's website at: Gordon Gekko: I heard there was a sion's free! 574-229-4657 Call JSK Development 574-387-http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. recession, but I just don’t partici­caleb_noble@hotmail.com 4466. pate. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Monday, October 4, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
MLB 

A’s finish off Mariners; Giants win NL West 
the A’s a 2-0 lead. Seattle pulled streak. “It’s a grind, it’s a long 
Associated Press 
even in the fifth on Ichiro season, but it’s a game. It’s a 

SEATTLE — At the end of his Suzuki’s two-out, two-run dou-game I’ve been playing my second 101-loss season in three ble, but Carter came through in whole life andifyou go outthere years, Ichiro Suzuki summed up the sixth with a bases loaded and have fun good things will a miserable summer of Seattle single offAnthonyVarvaro (0-1). happen.” baseball. Kouzmanoff added a little Mark Ellis gave Oakland a 1-0 
“I don’t think anyone could insurance in the eighth with a lead in the third with a two-out have imagined this,” he said solo shot off Garrett Olson, his RBI double to score Rajai Davis, through an interpreter. “I think 16thhomer ofthe season. who barelybeat apotentialdou­it’s stupidto imagine this.” Seattle finished at 61-101. ble play to keep the inning 
While the Mariners concluded Mariners ace Felix Hernandez going. Kurt Suzuki’s homer into a season of futility, the Oakland could have made one more start the A’s bullpen in left field was Athletics were filled with opti-Sunday on normal rest, burnish-his 13th. mism. ing his AL Cy Young Award cre-Oakland then took the lead in 
Kurt Suzuki and Kevin dentials. But management erred the sixth off Varvaro, with Ellis Kouzmanoff hit long solo home on the side of caution, noting scoring on Carter’s sharp single. runs, and Oakland’s Chris Carter Hernandez’s league-best 249 2-3 Neither starter pitched past added the go-ahead RBI single innings already was the highest the fifth. Seattle’s Ryan as the Athletics beat the of his career. The 24-year-old Rowland-Smith gave up two Mariners 4-3 on Sunday to com-also led the AL in ERA (2.27) runs and four hits in five plete a season-ending four-game opponents batting average (.212) innings. sweep. and was second in strikeouts Craig Breslow got four outs for 
Oakland finished 81-81 for its (232), one behind the Angels’ his fifth save in seven opportuni­
first non-losing season since JeredWeaver. ties. That’s allI can say as of now.” there,” said Bochy, who elimi­winningthe ALWest with93 vic-Hernandez was relegated “Everyone knows how intelli-natedhis former team. tories four years ago. Sunday to standing on the genthe is buthe actuallypitches Giants 3, Padres 0 Padres players stayed put at 
“It’s alot better than last year dugout railing and acknowledg-that way,” Geren said ofBreslow. Jonathan Sanchez pulled on a the railing of their dugout sitting at this desk. That was a ing astanding ovation from the “He is avery smartpitcher.” pair of skigoggles to assure him-watching the celebration in dis-great finish,” Oakland manager 23,263 in attendance following a Seattle center fielder Franklin self a clear view of the celebra-appointment. BobGeren said. video tribute on the big screen in Gutierrez set a major league tion. No champagne eyes. The Giants were in fourth 
The A’s wound up in sole pos-the middle ofthe thirdinning. record for the most chances in The San Francisco Giants held place and7½ games out of the 
session of secondplace in the AL That was aboutthe most excit-an entire season without com-their celebratory clubhouse lead on July4. West andhave plentyto lookfor-ing moment for Mariners fans, a mitting an error. Gutierrez was party, at last, following atough “We were in fourth place but ward to with the development of far cryfrom ayear earlier when the designatedhitter on Sunday, two-day wait. we said, ‘We’re ateam that can young pitchers such as Trevor Ken Griffey Jr. and Ichiro Suzuki ensuring the record. He played Sanchez pitched the Giants win it,’” Sandoval said. “We can 
Cahill andGio Gonzalez. were carried around the field on 146 of his 152 games in center backinto the playoffs after asix-getto the WorldSeries.” 
Another one of those young-teammates’ shoulders after a field this season and was perfect year absence and also provided The pitching-rich Padres head ster, Dallas Braden, gained his surprising85-win season. in his 415 chances. The previous aclutch hit, beating the San home for alonger winter than 11th victoryin the finale. Braden Ichiro Suzuki’s double provid-mark was 396 by Curt Flood Diego Padres Sunday to wrap up they wanted knowing they blew allowed two runs andfive hits in ing abrief jolt, giving the All-withSt. Louis in 1966. the NLWesttitle. quite an opportunity. San Diego five innings before leaving with a Star his 213th hit. He added a Gutierrez’s mark was one of “I told myself, ‘This is my last led the division by 6½ games sore neck. single in the eighth for No. 214 the few positives for the start and I’m going to win this before a10-game losing streak 
“I wasn’tfeelinglike Iwas able and scored on Justin Smoak’s Mariners. game,’” Sanchez said. from Aug. 26to Sept. 5. 
to finish any kind of pitches,” two-out single. “Atthe end ofthe day, to come Buster Poseyhomered and the But manager BudBlack’s team Braden said. “We wanted to win “It was more just trying to up with results like this, that’s Giants got it done — on their had trouble scoring all season, the game, finish with a victory have fun,” said Smoak, who very tough as a player,” Suzuki third try against the Padres this and that was its undoing at the 
andgo out on agood note.” struggled following his trade said. “Allyou can feelis you feel weekend —to capture their first end. The Padres managed only Suzuki’s homer on the first from Texas to Seattle but closed just bad for what you’ve done division crown and playoff berth four hits Sunday and were shut pitch of the fourth inning gave the season on a10-game hitting this year. You feel very guilty. since 2003. outfor the 12thtime. 
“It’s been seven years since “Anyone who goes through we’ve seen something like this,” this has a good sense of what’s closer Brian Wilson said. “It’s going on,” Black said. “Reality been a rollercoaster the entire sets in and you know we didn’t season.” make it. But we still had a great 
San Francisco will host the season.” wild-card Atlanta Braves start-Sanchez (13-9)pitchedinto the ing Thursday at AT&T Park, sixth inning and gave up three with ace Tim Lincecum well hits while walking five. He con-rested to go in Game 1. The tributed with his bat, too, hitting Braves beat the Phillies 8-7 ear-a triple off rookie Mat Latos (14­lier in the day, extending manag-10) and scoring the game’s first er BobbyCox’s farewell season. run in the thirdinning. 
Two NL playoff races came The Giants head back into the down to Game 162. postseason adecidedly different 
San Diego missed a chance to team than when they last made force a Monday playoff with the it. Led by Barry Bonds, they lost Giants at Petco Park to decide in four games to Florida in the the NL West winner. The loser of 2003 NL division series, a year that would have flown to Atlanta after falling six outs shy of a to determine the wild card had World Series title and losing to there been athree-waytie. the wild-card Angels in seven 
Manager Bruce Bochy games. instructed his players not to In fact, San Francisco is back pack any bags. He told them the in the playoffs with a roster that regular season would end looks nothing like the group that Sunday. took the field on opening day. 
When it did, the Giants let Posey was called up in late May loose. and hit 18 homers to make a 
Pablo Sandoval and other strong case for NL Rookie of the Giants waved orange towels atop Year honors, and Pat Burrell the dugout steps after Wilson’s revivedhis career after signing a first two pitches were strikes to minor league deal May 29 fol-WillVenable withtwo outs in the lowing his release by Tampa ninth. Bay. The bullpen features new 
When Venable struck out faces, too. Jose Guillen, Mike swinging one pitch later, Posey Fontenot and Cody Ross also are ran out to Wilson and they newcomers. jumped together at the mound. “Versus the past when we The rest of the Giants joined lived and died with one super-them and gray NL West champi-star player, there aren’t any on shirts were quickly handed superstars on this team. There out. might be a couple rising stars,” 
The Giants then took a victory said general manager Brian lap along the outfield warning Sabean, who was pinned in a track, slapping hands with fans corner and doused with cham­leaning over the fence. Bochy pagne by the players. “Our brought up the rear of the lap, organization is built on pitching. tipping his cap and waving it It’s old-school baseball. We’ve over and over again. been marching toward this for a 
“It’s a group that coalesced while, including holding onto into a team that wants to get (Jonathan)Sanchez.” 



page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, October 4, 2010 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles finish 28th inLoyola-hosted5k 
By KATHARINE MACK 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s took 28th place out of 41 teams Saturday at the 2010 Sean Earl Invitational. The 5k race took place in Chicago and was hosted by Loyola University. 
The women’s division fea­tured squads from all three NCAA divisions, as well as NAIA teams. NCAA Division I squad Northwestern took the top spot among the 41 on Saturday, followed by McMaster, Saint Olaf, Drake and Chicago. 
The Belles score of 725 put the team only 5 points behind Indianapolis for the event. Saint Mary’s was led by sopho­more Julia Kenney, who crossed the line at 19:23, fol­lowed by junior Joanne Almond who finished with a time of 
19:45. Sophomore Emma Baker took third with a 20:03 finish. 
With the MIAA Championships at the end of the month, the Belles showed many signs of improvement as personal records were broken by four runners. Kenney’s first place finish on the team marked a new personal best. Baker’s third place finish for the squad was also a new career best that smashed her previous record by 22 seconds. 
Seniors Catie Salyer and Sam Wassel rounded out the scoring for the Belles, as both also fin­ished with new personal records of 20:10 and 20:11, respectively. 
The Belles will be preparing this week for their next meet, which will take place Friday at Benedictine University. 
Contact Katharine Mack at kmack1@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Doubles play improves as Irish continue to roll 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish continued their fall success this weekend at the Harvard Invitational in Cambridge, Mass. The Irish set the tone from the first day of the tournament, winning six of their nine matches against Minnesota. 
Seniors Stephen Havens and Tyler Davis both earned wins on day one of the tour­nament over Sebastian Gallego and Julian Dehn respectively. 
Freshman Billy Pecor, jun­ior Niall Fitzgerald and soph­omores Michael Moore and Spencer Talmadge all pulled out wins for the Irish to round out the six on day one. 
“Billy beat a strong Indian player with a great deal of international experience from Alabama,” Bayliss said. “Billy can really hit through the court and needs to harness some of his raw power more selectively.” 
On day two, the Irish fin­ished with a record of 15-2 with six players undefeated in singles heading into the final day of the tournament. 
Havens, Davis, Fitzgerald, Moore, Talmadge and Pecor all finished day two undefeat­ed and looked to continue their dominance on day three. 
The Irish also picked up six doubles victories on the day with Havens and Davis team­ing up to defeat Christo Schultz and Johnathan Pearlman of Harvard 9-8. 
Pecor and freshman Greg Andrews were able to pick up an 8-0 win over a duo from South Carolina. 
“Certainly doubles needs to become a strength for us this year, and I saw some encour­aging things last weekend,” Bayliss said. “Davis-Havens looked great, as did Fitzgerald-Talmadge. Several of the freshmen can con­tribute here as well, but we need to be able to cut off more balls around the net and finish points there. We need to be six balls tough from two-back and really establish a presence on the doubles court. There could be some new combinations this year and we have all fall to figure it out.” 
On day three the Irish pulled out even more victo­ries, culminating in Havens finishing the tournament undefeated in both singles and doubles play along with Davis. Havens earnined the Dale Junta ’58 Award for his success in the tournament. 
Andrews finished with a 2-1 record, earning the Corey Winn Freshman to Watch Award for the tournament. 
The Irish totaled a 23-4 sin­gles record in the tourna­ment, with Fitzgerald, Pecor, Anderson and Moore teaming up with Havens to finish with undefeated records. 
Notre Dame also came away with six of nine victories in doubles, with junior Samuel Keeton and Moore also com­bining for an undefeated dou­bles record for the weekend. 
The Irish will continue their season when they send soph­omore Blas Moros, junior Casey Watt and senior Daniel Stahl to the ITA All-American event in Tulsa, Okla., which begins Monday. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 
ND finishes in top third of field 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Sports Writer 

This weekend, the Irish hosted the 55th annual Notre Dame Invitational, welcom­ing some of the top teams in the country at the Warren Golf Course. 
Irish men’s coach Joe Piane said that the invitational was an “opportunity for both the women and men to pick up large points to qualify for the NCAA Championships.” 
After this weekend’s per­formance, the Irish are well on their way after successful finishes by both teams. 
In the 21-team men’s com­petition, the Irish finished in seventh place with 208 points. With six of the top 25 teams in the country compet­ing, including eventual Invitational winner No. 3 Oregon, Piane said the race was “phenomenal.” 
Senior Dan Jackson, who finished 15th individually, was the top runner for the Irish, crossing the line at 
24:13. Sophomore Jeremy Rae followed close behind in 24:30, while junior Jordan Carlson finished third for the Irish with a time of 24:41. The rest of the Irish lineup included freshman Martin Grady, who finished in 24:44, and senior Mat Abernethy, who crossed at 25:19. 

Piane said that the women’s race was “unbeliev­able,” as it featured 12 nationally ranked teams. These included Invitational winner No. 1 Villanova, No. 2 
Florida  State,  No.  3  
Washington  and  No.  5  
Oregon.  

The Irish women came in 18th overall with 402 points. Freshman Meg Ryan finished first for the Irish with a time of 17:37. Ryan was joined by senior Erica Watson, who crossed at 17:41, and sopho­more Rebecca Tracy, who turned in a time of 17:57. Juniors Rachel Velarde and Susanna Sullivan contributed with times of 18:02 and 18:03. 
“This meet [was] as tough a meet as we’re going to face all year besides the NCAAs,” Piane said. “It [was] also a meet to get us to the NCAAs.” 
The Irish will next compete in the NCAA Pre-National Meet on Oct. 16, which Piane said he believes will be very challenging. The tournament is expected to feature as many as 80 schools. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 


Monday, October 4, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
Jackson 
continued from page 20 
ticked off the clock. Gerths opened the scoring 6:45 into the game on a delayed Gryphon penalty, taking a feed from Tynan in the slot and firing the puck past Guelph goalie Andrew Loverock. 
Under a new CCHA rule this season, the Irish were still granted a power play even after scoring with the extra attacker. On the ensuing power play, Voran took a feed from Tynan and made a nice individ­ual move down the right side before stuffing the puck past Loverock to give the Irish a 2-0 lead. 
“We had two in the first, which is probably good for being the first game,” Ridderwall said. “Obviously we’d like to score more, but in a game like this it’s really about finding the groove for the sea­son.” 
The Gryphons answered back at the tail end of the first peri­od. With the seconds winding down, Guelph’s J.T. Macdonald appeared to fire the puck in after a scrum in front of the net. The referee signaled that it was a goal, but the red light did not go on. After video review, officials confirmed that the goal was scored before time expired. 
Guelph then tied the game 
14:00 into the second period on an unassisted power-play goal from Ken Peroff. 
It took less than four minutes for Notre Dame to pull ahead, though. With freshman Bryan Rust and sophomore Riley Sheahan forechecking behind the Gryphon net, Sheahan was able to feed the puck to Ridderwall at the right circle, where the senior fired a one-timer past Loverock’s glove side. 
“Rust and Sheahan did a great job forechecking,” Ridderwall said. “The puck just came out in front and I just took a slapshot. I just wanted to put it through the net.” 
Jackson said he thought his team battled well in the offen­sive zone all night, but that there was still work to be done. 
“I thought our forecheck at times was very aggressive, caused turnovers and opportu­nities, scored a goal off of it. But I think we’ve got to get a lot better through the neutral zone, both offensively and defensively.” 
The Gryphons tied the game once again on a shorthanded goal just 31 seconds into the final period, but the Irish replied with another goal from a freshman. This time it was Jeff Costello, who took a feed from Tynan and found himself in a 2-on-1 with classmate Kevin Lind. Costello took the shot himself and beat Loverock with a wrister to the short side. The goal gave Tynan his third assist of the game. 
“[Tynan]’s very subtle with some of the decisions he makes with the puck . he’s got great instincts,” Jackson said. “We knew he could be creative and effective offensively.” 
The Irish sealed the win with a breakaway goal from Lee after a long outlet pass from freshman Shayne Taker deep in the defensive zone. 
Jackson said that, while he was pleased with the win, the Irish were still in the develop­mental process. 
“We’ve thrown a lot at them in a very short period of time,” he said. “When you overwhelm someone with information, sometimes it doesn’t stick. It goes in one ear and out the other when there’s so much information.” 
Ridderwall added that the first game always involves shaking off some rust from the offseason. 
“I thought the game was pret­ty messy,” he said. “The first game of the season usually is. Overall, I think we did some good things, obviously we’ve got to improve some things, but I think it was good for the freshmen to get off to a good start.” 
The Irish will kick off the reg­ular season next weekend at the Ice Breaker Tournament in St. Louis. They will play Holy Cross in the opener and then either Boston University or Wisconsin in their second game. 

“It’s about us being better next Friday than we were tonight, and then it’ll be about being better a week later,” Jackson said. “We’ve got to take one step at a time in this process because we’ve got a lot of development work to do with some guys … The good thing is there’s a great canvas there to develop guys.” 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

Saint Mary’s shut out by Alma, falls behind in MIAA 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s lost 4-0 this weekend to MIAA division rival Alma College. 
The Belles (2-10) lost their eighth road game to the Scots (8-3) in Belles coach Michael the second half on an assist Joyce’s first year at the helm. by junior forward Alli Meurer. 
Saint Mary’s held Alma Two minutes later, Alma dou­scoreless in the first half, but bled its lead with a goal from the tide quickly turned in the sophomore midfielder Elaine Scots’ favor when freshman Cunningham on a corner kick. forward Taryn Handyside Junior midfielder Carly scored just 26 seconds into Reising scored for the Scots in the 52nd minute off an Walsh made eight saves in net assist from Meurer, who net-for the Belles. ted her second goal of the In the second half, Alma game in the 77th minute to outshot the Belles 13-0 with 8 give Alma a commanding shots on net. Junior goalkeep­lead. er Monica Witt made two 


The Belles finished with saves for the Scots. three shot attempts, two of Saint Mary’s takes the pitch which by sophomore midfield-next at home Friday against er Ashley Marfin were on net. MIAA conference foe Albion Junior forward Katelyn College (1-8-2). Tondo-Steele made the other attempt. Between the pipes, Contact Maija Gustin at sophomore goalkeeper Caitlin mgustin@nd.edu 
Powers 
continued from page 20 
to senior forward Jeb Brovsky led to the first Irish goal in the 12th minute. The play marked Powers’ third assist, a team high. 
Providence (5-3-1, 0-2) quick­ly responded with a goal in the 16th minute. The game headed into halftime as a 1-1 tie, but a dominant Irish performance in the second half decided the game, Clark said. 
“I think we were okay in the first half, but I thought we were very good in the second half,” he said. “I think we just had more control of the game in the second half. I felt we handled the game better in the second half, and we were very danger­ous.” 
With just six minutes left, the game tipped in Notre Dame’s favor as Perry’s shot from eight yards away sailed into the net. It was Perry’s fifth goal of the season, a team high. 
“It’s nice to see Perry making a habit of scoring goals now, which is great for a forward,” Clark said. “He’s been making runs, and he’ll continue to. With a bit more luck he could have had two goals today.” 
Sophomore Kyle Richard assisted Perry on the goal in his first season of action for the Irish. Richard redshirted his freshman year. 
“It was a very solid perform­ance from Richard, which has been a bonus,” Clark said. “He’s starting to push his way into contention and becoming a valuable player.” 
Though they successfully pulled out the win, the Irish were outshot by the Friars 9-4, marking the fewest number of shots on goal the Irish have tal­lied in a game this season. ”We didn’t generate as many shots as we have been in previous games, and some of that must go down to the way Providence handled us,” Clark said. “They made it a little difficult to actu­ally get shots.” 
On defense, Clark cited some areas of the game he wishes to improve this week in practice. 
“There were a few lapses . handling balls, coming into the balls,” he said. “I don’t think that was as solid as we could have worked. I think that’s something we can look at this coming week.” 
Senior goalkeeper and cap­tain Phil Tuttle made his home debut this season after recover­ing from a meniscus injury dur­ing his summer training pro­gram. Tuttle made four saves against Providence. 
The Irish will travel to Bloomington, Ind. to play the Hoosiers Tuesday. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

page 16 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, October 4, 2010 

Monday, October 4, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
nament for the Irish has been the opportunity to experiment 
Rafael 


continued from page 24 
The Irish faced their first col­legiate competition of the fall season. For the freshmen, it was their first collegiate matches of their respective careers. 
“I thought we had a great weekend,” Louderback said. “It was good for our freshmen to compete against college players andtheylooked verygood.” 
Other than Kellner and Sanders, freshmen JoHanna Manningham and Julie Sabacinski, made their colle­giate debuts. Manningham wrapped up play today in the green singles division by defeat­ing Ohio State’s Kelsey Becker 6-1, 6-1. 
The other advantage of this weekend’s season-opening tour-with different doubles combina­tions. Rafael and Manningham were the runners up in the gold division, and sophomore Chrissie McGaffigan and Sabacinski finished third in the blue doubles draw. 
These pairings are not set in stone, however, and Louderback will likely switch things up before he finalizes them. Louderback was pleased with the way his team played, with the exception of a few errors that couldhave been eliminated. 
“We still need work on our doubles and finishing points in singles,” Louderback said. 
Next, the Irish will compete in Regional Qualifying hosted by Michigan on Oct. 21 and22. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
No. 7 Irish win Warren Invitational at home 
By MEGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
TheNo. 7Irish came out on top again this weekend as they won the William K. Warren Irish Invitational at Notre Dame’s Warren Golf Course for their sec­ondstraighttournamentvictory. 
Notre Dame shot a 905 (+41) three-round total to defeat Kent State by five strokes and grab its second win over Kent in as many weeks. 
“This was a great win for the team,” Irish coach Susan Holt said. “There is definitely added pressure to win when you host an event on your home golf course.” 
The win wasn’t an easy one for the team, as the team hadto deal with the pressure of being the host. Nevertheless, Holt said she felt her team handled the chal­lenges presented as best they could. 
“The weather Saturday made it a very challenging day for good golf,” she said. “It was windy and cold,andIthoughtwedidagreat job of being patient. It is tough to playin those conditions, especial­ly36holes.” 
The Irish shot a final round of 302 (+2), led by freshman Nicole Zhang’s weekend-low score of 
70. Zhang tied for second place among all golfers with an overall finish of 218, shooting a 73 and 75 in the first two rounds, respectively. 
Kent State came in a close sec­ondwithascore of910,andOhio Stateinthirdwithascoreof921. 
Notre Dame saw consistently strongplayfrom all ofits players, each of whom ranked among the top-35finishers. 
“This was a team effort all the way,” Holt said. “We got key rounds from all five players. It is greatto knowthatwehavedepth in our lineup and do not rely on any one person to have to carry theload.” 
Senior So-Hyun Park finished insecondfortheIrishwitha229, shootingtwo consistent rounds of 76 on day one and carding a 77 on day two to take 12th. Junior Becca Huffer was not far behind Park, tying for 17th with a finish of 231 with her three rounds of 77,75and79. 
Freshman Kristina Nhim had another successful weekend to kick off her rookie season after a tough first round. Nhim shot an 83 to commence the tournament, but came back with a 72 in round two and a 79 in round three to finish at 234 for 28th place. Junior Katie Allare round­ed out the Irish scoring by card­ing a 236 with rounds of 79, 81 and76totiefor35th. 
Senior Katie Conway competed as an individual in the invite and hadthebestfinishofalltheunat­tached competitors with a 233. Conway shot rounds of 79, 75 and79toendupin21stoverall. 
Notre Dame will next travel to Knoxville, Tenn., to compete in the Mercedes-Benz Collegiate Championship at the Fox Den Country Club from Oct. 8-9, where it looks to continue its earlysuccess. 
“Confidence and good golf go hand in hand,” Holt said. “With backtobackwinswe haveahigh level of confidence heading into the University of Tennessee event next weekend. I think we will continueoursolidplay.” 
Contact Meghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, October 4, 2010 
Brown 
continued from page 20 
Notre Dame has now domi­nated all four Big East matches this year, winning each in straight sets. 
“The last four matches have shown what we are capable of … being a young team, the maturity we have gained through game experi­ence has helped us really develop,” Brown said. 
The Irish will continue their conference schedule next weekend, when they travel to Louisville and Cincinnati. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 
Waldrum 
continued from page 20 
been real pleased about the last two weekends, is offen­sively we’re starting to click and create more chances and score more goals.” 
It’s no coincidence that Notre Dame’s recent onslaught on the scoreboard comes on the heels of a remarkable offensive run by junior forward Melissa Henderson. The All-American netted two goals apiece this weekend, and has now tallied 6 goals and two assists (14 points) in her last three games. 
“Melissa Henderson was fantastic this whole week­end,” Waldrum said. “She was dangerous every time she touched the ball … to me, she’s the best forward in the country. And we keep telling her that . she’s such a humble person, she doesn’t want to hear it. That’s just the kind of person she is.” 
True to form, the Irish start­ed the scoring early against both Syracuse (5-6-3. 2-3) and St. John’s (4-7-1, 1-4). Freshman midfielder Elizabeth Tucker scored in the 19th minute Friday in what proved to be the game-win­ner, while Henderson found the back of the net on a penalty kick in the 10th minute Sunday. The Irish have scored in the first 12 minutes in four of their last five games. 
“I don’t really feel like I’ve been consistent,” Henderson said. “I’ve been trying to bring out my game and help my teammates out a little bit more because they’ve been carrying everything. All over the field, you’re going to see players that are willing to do it and get it done.” 
For all their success on the field, the Irish have not seen it translate into support in the stands. Waldrum said Friday’s showing was particularly dis­heartening, particularly for a team that has seen its work in the offseason payoff to the tune of 71 consecutive confer­ence wins . an NCAA Division I record. 
“My big disappointment honestly over the weekend is our fans . I just don’t under­stand it,” he said. “For 12 years now, we’ve had arguably the best program, or one of the best programs, here on campus year in and year out. I don’t know what else we can do. I wish the stu­dents would tell us what we need to do to get them out here.” 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 

Belles claim first seed with victory 
has helped us several times this season.” 
Senior Rosie O’Connell post­ed her lowest round of the season with a 78 and turned in a round-leading three birdies, earning a medal for Saint Mary’s in the process. Senior Mary Kate Boyce was just two strokes behind and finished second overall. Freshman Doyle O’Brien fin­ished with an 83, and fresh­men Marin Beagley and Paige Pollack turned in scores of 84 and 92, respectively. 
Up next for Saint Mary’s is the MIAA Championship at Bedford Valley Golf Course this weekend. The Belles will be the No. 1 seed, entering the tournament with a 331 stroke average. 
“I still see room for improvement because we have a young team,” Hamilton said. “We want to be ranked in the top ten teams in the country going into the winter.” 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

win,” Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. “It was in adverse conditions, and the players really stepped up.” 
Saint Mary’s battled the rain, cold and the wind, and was still able to put up one of its lowest scores of the sea­son. 
Hamilton said that the men­tal aspect of the game was the major factor in the Belles’ superior performance. 
“It was not letting the adverse conditions affect us,” Hamilton said. “That mindset 

By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
In the final Jamboree of the regular season, Saint Mary’s put together a rout of its MIAA competition with a 20­stroke victory at Lenawee Country Club in Adrian, Mich. The Belles shattered the pre­vious course record with a two-day total of 325, 12 shots lower than the one set in 2008 by Olivet. 
“It was a pretty substantial 

Monday, October 4, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Friday, October 4, 2010 page 20 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Defensive domination 
ND blanks Syracuse, dismantles St. John’s 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Offense, defense and goal­keeping — up until this week­end, Irish coach Randy Waldrum was pleased with his team’s performance in the lat­ter two. But after a convincing weekend sweep over Syracuse and St. John’s, Waldrum said he believes all three are oper­ating in midseason form. 
No. 5/7 Notre Dame (10-1, 4-0 Big East) shut out the Orange 3-0 Friday night in a dominating performance on both sides of the ball, before putting together a 4-1 dis­mantling of St. John’s Sunday afternoon. 
“You want to try to distance yourself as much as you can, so it was a good weekend,” Waldrum said. “But probably more importantly, what I’ve 
McKENZIE SAIN/The Observer 

Irish freshman defender Kecia Morway tries to make a move around a St. John’s defender in Notre see WALDRUM/page 18 Dame’s 4-1 rout of the Red Storm Sunday in Alumni Stadium. 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Three titles for Irish in Eck Classic 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame capped off a three-day event at the Eck Classic, hosted at the Courtney Tennis Center, with two singles championships. 
Senior Kristen Rafael defeated freshman teammate Britney Sanders 3-6, 6-1, 6-1 in the Blue division. Freshman Jennifer Kellner beat Tulsa’s Anastasia Erofeeva 4-6, 7-6 (7­5), 7-6 (9-7) to claim the Gold division title. 
Previously, the duo of Kellner and Sanders won the Blue dou­bles division Saturday. 
Irish coach Jay Louderback praised the performance of his senior champion. 
“Kristen Rafael has be playing really well in practice,” Louderback said. “It was excit­ing to see it carry over in match situations.” 
see RAFAEL/page 17 


ND VOLLEYBALL 

Weekend sweep completed over USF, Georgetown 
South Florida. The Irish (11-seen in my time at Notre tory behind another strong Despite extending the con-
By MICHAEL TODISCO 

5, 4-0 Big East) defeated the Dame,” she said. “We compet-performance by McHugh, who ference streak to 19 games 
Sports Writer 

Bulls (7-8, 3-1) in straight ed really well for every point finished with 19 kills. following an undefeated con-sets 3-0 (25-19, 25-17, 25-20) and showed a very strong Despite the strong individ-ference record in 2009, 
The Irish swept another in what was the 1,000th competitive drive.” ual efforts, Brown said that Brown stressed that the team weekend of conference match in Notre Dame volley-Freshman outside hitter the weekend was defined by doesn’t focus on streaks and matches, defeating both ball history. Andrea McHugh’s 11 kills and the ability of every member of records. South Florida and Irish coach Debbie Brown junior libero Frenchie Silva’s the team to step up when “While it’s nice to have all Georgetown in straight sets to said she was pleased with the 11 digs led the way for Notre needed. this success, we don’t dwell run their Big East regular cohesion her team showed Dame. “Whether it was for one on that type of stuff,” Brown season winning streak to 19 against the Bulls. The Irish traveled to serve or to come in and focus said. “We focus one game at a games, dating back to the “I told the team after the Georgetown (12-8,2-2) on blocking, anyone who was time with the goal of defend­2008 season. game that our match against Sunday for a match against called off the bench thrived in ing our Big East season title.” 
The team played Friday, South Florida may have been the Hoyas. The Irish earned a the role that they were traveling to Tampa to take on the best team effort I have 3-0 (25-13, 25-22, 25-19) vic-given,” Brown said. see BROWN/page 18 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Perry scores game winner 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Senior forward Steven Perry scored the winning goal in the 84th minute for the Irish against Providence, leading the squad to a 2-1 victory Sunday at Alumni Stadium for their second Big East conference win of the season. 
“[The Friars] came in a very confident mode . it’s always tough to play a team that’s coming in confident,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “I’ve never called them an easy team. They’re a very industri­ous team.” 
Notre Dame (4-2-3, 2-0 Big East) took the upper hand in the game when sophomore midfielder Dillon Powers’ assist 
see POWERS/page 15 

HOCKEY 
Jackson pleased with 5-3 exhibition victory 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
Prior to Sunday’s exhibition game against the University of Guelph, Irish coach Jeff Jackson admitted that his team would be forced to rely on freshmen more than usual this season. 
If Notre Dame’s 5-3 win over the Gryphons was any indication, the Irish will be just fine. 
Rookies scored four of five Irish goals, and tallied a total of nine points as the Irish downed Guelph in their only tune-up game before begin­ning the regular season. Freshman T.J. Tynan led the Irish in scoring with three assists, and classmates David Gerths, Mike Voran, Jeff Costello and Anders Lee lit the lamp for Notre Dame, as did senior Calle Ridderwall. 
“Obviously our veterans are the key to our team, but with so many freshmen, if we don’t have production from those young kids, we’re not going to be a very good team,” Jackson said. “I mean, I know that they’re all capable, and it bodes well for us and our future.” 
Notre Dame appeared to overpower the Gryphons in the first period, taking a 2-0 lead before 10 minutes had 
see JACKSON/page 15 

IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Monday, October 4, 2010 observer Notre Dame 31, Boston College 13 
Righting the ship 
Fast start, stout run defense provide keys to Notre Dame’s 31-13 win 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Associate Sports Editor 
CHESTNUT HILL, Mass. — The Irish got off to a much-needed fast start against the Eagles, scoring three times in their first four pos­sessions. Notre Dame simply needed an early 21-point lead and a shut-down defensive perform­ance to hold on for a convincing 31-13 victory Saturday night. 
“Well, we got off to a fast start,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “I thought that was key, obviously, on the road. We had three touch­downs on the first four posses­sions, and that gives us a lot of confidence early on. We’re just happy to get a victory at this point.” 
Behind the arm and legs of jun­ior quarterback Dayne Crist, the Irish moved the ball up and down the field in the first quarter. They capped off their first scoring drive with a seven-yard touchdown run by Crist, something Irish coach Brian Kelly has been looking for in his signal-caller. 

“He’s got to be a spread quar­terback or he can’t be the quar­terback here,” Kelly said. “We’re running a spread offense, and there’s got to be a spread quarter­back. He’s all in. He’s 100 percent in. He had a great week of prac­tice, and we’re really just working on that process of developing him as a spread quarterback. He’s not there yet, but he’s developing. He’s showing signs, and I think we’re going to get better each and every week with him, but under said. “We had our quarterback even stronger in the second half, compliment to our linebacking close we were. We’ve told you this those conditions.” run for a touchdown, we were keeping the Eagles scoreless for corps which is getting better and before, but guys weren’t down 
The Irish struck again two able to spread the field a little bit the final 30 minutes. Boston better each week.” after those losses, because we drives later, capping off a 59-yard better, and you know, we’ve got to College managed only five total Crist finished the game 24-for-know how this team can play. We yard scoring drive with a two-handle situations a little better. rushing yards in the game, while 44 with 203 yards, two touch-know the potential this team has yard touchdown pass from Crist We’re just hot and cold right now. tallying 11 punts and converting downs and an interception. and where we can go. We’re just to junior tight end Kyle Rudolph, Theo Riddick caught the ball well. four of 19 third down opportuni-Senior Armando Allen led the trying to be masters of our own his only reception of the game. [Junior receiver] Michael Floyd ties. Irish rushing attack, carrying the destiny, take it one game at a time 
“I think it was a step in the right continues to perform. Again, I “Our defense played great ball 19 times for 90 yards and and do everything we can to get direction,” Crist said. “We had to thought we got off to a good start. against the run,” Kelly said. “We Notre Dame’s final score of the wins. It feels great; there is not a come out ready to play. The guys They were confident in their abili-really focused on taking the run game. better feeling that winning.” knew this was going to be a tough ty. We just haven’t shown it on a away, knowing that the quarter-Coming off of three straight Kelly said that he was not com­[Boston College] defense. We have consistent basis.” backs would be coming in and out losses, including two heartbreak-pletely satisfied, and that the area a lot of respect for them and we Boston College showed signs of of the game, we really focused on ing defeats at the hands of rivals that Notre Dame needs to knew we had to come out with a life near the end of the first quar-the run and we ended up only giv-Michigan and Michigan State, improve on most is their mentali­great intensity and we knew that ter, as freshman quarterback ing up five yards of rushing. So, Kelly said the decisive victory res-ty during games. they would match that. It was one Chase Rettig connected on a deep any time you go on the road, play onated in the Irish locker room. “[It’s] toughness,” he said. of those situations where guys pass to freshman receiver Bobby good rush defense, get off to a “Happy,” he said. “Happy, “Mental and physical toughness. came ready to go, and I’m really Swigert, who took the catch-and-good start — we’ve got a lot of happy, happy. Everybody’s happy We have to do it. That’s our weak-proud of the offense.” run into the end zone for a 58-work to do — but again, those in Notre Dame land. Our boys ness right now. We’re going to 
After the Notre Dame defense yard score. things are the things you’re look-wanted to win badly. They continue to work on it, as it forced the Eagles into a third con-The Eagles then converted two ing for when you go on the road.” worked hard at it, and I’m happy comes. Our ability to stay focused, secutive three-and-out, Crist and of their next three drives into field Sophomore linebackers Manti that they got a win ... We’re not locked in, for 76 plays, is really the Irish offense once again goals, a 49-yarder and a 25-Te’o and Carlo Calabrese each there yet, but we’re going to keep what we’re getting at. And that marched down the field, scoring yarder off the foot of freshman recorded 10 tackles, leading the working every day and continue has to be created on a day-to-day on a touchdown pass to sopho-kicker Nate Freese, to bring them effort which limited Eagles run-to work on those things to get bet-basis. It can’t be left to ‘I’ll get to it more Theo Riddick from 20 yards within eight. ning back Montel Harris to 28 ter.” later.’ It’s got to be tended to out. Riddick finished the day as The Irish were able to score yards on 15 carries. Junior Crist said that happiness mainly immediately, and our guys are the leading Notre Dame receiver, once more in the first half, on a Robert Blanton and senior stemmed from Notre Dame feel-understanding that, and we’ll catching nine passes for 69 yards 37-yard field goal by senior David Harrison Smith each added an ing it was closer to victory than continue to build it.” and the score. Ruffer, which puts him at a per-interception for the Irish. the three losses indicated. 
“We got back to some of our fect 13-for-13 in his career. “[Calabrese] is playing very “It was huge,” the junior quar-Contact Eric Prister at principles in the spread,” Kelly The Irish defense came out well,” Kelly said. “He’s been a terback said. “Guys knew how eprister@nd.edu 

player of the game stat of the game play of the game quote of the game 
Dayne Crist 5 yards rushing Crist’s 20-yard touchdown pass to Theo 
“Happy. Happy, happy, happy.

Irish quarterback Riddick to give ND a 21-point lead 
Everybody’s happy in Notre Dame 

The Eagles only managed five land.” Crist ran for one touchdown and yards rushing against Notre Dame, Notre Dame’s third score in the first threw for two more, all in the first on 23 attempts for a 0.2 yards per quarter put BC behind 21-0, and Brian Kelly quarter. carry average. gave the Irish a comfortable cushion. Irish coach 



page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 4, 2010 
report card 
B B+ B+ A­
A A B­A­
B+ 

quarterbacks: Dayne Crist was responsi­ble for 21 of Notre Dame’s 31 points, but after a first quarter where he threw for 119 yards, he accumulated only 84 in the next three quarters combined. 
running backs: While Irish running backs gained only 107 yards against the Eagles, Armando Allen looked solid, averaging 
4.7 yards per carry and scoring a touch­down. 
receivers: Kyle Rudolph and Theo Riddick each caught touchdown passes, and Michael Floyd continued to perform. Dropped passes were a problem yet again, which could come back and haunt the Irish. 
offensive line: Crist was sacked only once, and rarely had to move outside the pocket except on designed rolls. Allen had plenty of room to run, despite only 90 rushing yards. 
defensive line: Boston College ran for only five total yards, and Notre Dame’s defensive success against the run starts with the defensive line, who delivered a dominant performance. 
linebackers: Manti Te’o and Carlo 
Calabrese combined for 20 tackles, and the linebackers joined the D-line in halt­ing any Boston College attempt at a run­ning attack. 
defensive backs: Despite a dominant per­
formance from the team as a whole, the 
defensive backs gave up 265 yards 
through the air. Harrison Smith and 
Robert Blanton each had interceptions. 
special teams: David Ruffer extended his 
games with a field goal streak to eight, 
and Bennett Jackson provided a spark 
returning kicks. Ben Turk also averaged 
39 yards per punt with a long of 53. 
coaching: The Irish came out firing, which can be attributed to the motivation pro­vided by the coaching staff, and the defen­sive gameplan was clearly successful, but the offense continues to be hot and cold,. 
3.44 

overall: Notre Dame clearly domi­nated the football game, and the defensive front seven was incred­ible. The score could and should have been even more lopsided. 
adding up the numbers 
Notre Dame’s first touchdown came only 
1:48 into the game, the quickest Irish 
1:48
touchdown since Nov. 11, 2006. 

4:44 
Notre Dame’s final touchdown drive lasted 14 plays and 4:44. It was the longest scoring drive of the season for ND, both in plays and in time. 
The 21 points in the first quarter were the most for the Irish in the opening quarter of a road 
21 
game since Nov. 29, 2003. 

10 
The Irish defense forced Boston College to punt 11 times Saturday, 10 of which came after drives that only lasted three plays. 
Boston College ran only 14 plays on offense in the third quarter, gaining one total yard. 
1 

13 
After converting his 37-yard field goal in the second quarter David Ruffer has made all 13 of his career field goal attempts. 
Armando Allen’s 30-yard run on the opening drive tied his career long, set against Purdue in 
30 
Notre Dame’s season-opener. 

Freshman Bennett Jackson returned four 111 kickoffs for 111 yards in his first action with the ball in his hands for the Irish. 

Tradition creates undue pressure 
CHESTNUT HILL, Mass. — “If we spent time listening to what people say about us, we’d have to crawl under a table. We can’t handle the big picture stuff. We’re just inter­ested totally on what we can do every day to get better, and that’s really the honest answer.” 
After Notre Dame’s 31-13 victory over Boston College, Brian Kelly responded as such to com­ments by Eric Prister ESPN’s Kirk Herbstreit, who Associate before the game Sports Editor had compared the Irish defense to that of a high school team. And while the defense was likely not aware of what Herbstreit said, Kelly’s response to the com­ments reflects something much big­ger. 

Throughout the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, the mystique of Notre Dame’s football program grew at an even pace with its success. The Irish won national championships, and in the process solidified a tradi­tion unlike any other. 
But after being left out of the national championship in 1993, Lou Holtz’s departure after the 1996 season and three coaches who led the Irish to various degrees of mediocrity, Notre Dame, on paper, is no longer the football power­house it once was. But the mystique remains. 
Somewhere along the line, Notre Dame football transformed from being competition and entertain­ment, and became a way of life. It somehow took on a pseudo-reli­gious feel, with holy days twelve Saturdays each year. 

And so, the pressure builds. Each year that Notre Dame fails to win its first national championship since 1988, the mythical status of Notre Dame teams of yore becomes greater, while the progress of the actual team playing the games week after week may or may not change. 
This seems to be a unique, or at least rare, situation for a college athlete to be in. Certainly, players at programs like Alabama, Michigan and Texas face pressure week in and week out, but that pressure is simply to win, not to uphold the grand status of a pro­gram which is so yearning to be brought back to relevance. 
The heightened pressure of the Notre Dame football program is not an excuse for underachieving coaches and teams, but it should at least shed some light on what the average Irish player feels as he takes the field each week, and the kind of attitude keeping Notre Dame from its long-awaited ‘Return to Glory.’ 
The pressure of the program is by no means a completely conscious thing. Notre Dame players are not worried, in the middle of the play, about defending the standards of Notre Dame football, or about how this one play will affect their chances at a national champi­onship. But the pressure is there. 
It is very difficult for players to consistently perform at a high level when they are unable to simply relax and play. Not only the game, but the season and the very tradi­tion of the program is at stake each and every play, and that wears on players and teams. 
But Brian Kelly’s comment, responding to Kirk Herbstreit, is exactly the attitude that can buck the trend. 
‘Taking it one game at a time’ is the sports cliché to end all sports clichés, but it contains a nugget of wisdom, especially for an Irish pro­gram with so many intangibles. Kelly is right; if Notre Dame players thought about all the things that are being said about them — by students, alumni, fans and analysts 
— they would need to crawl under a table to get away from the immense pressure, something that many teams over the past 15 years have done. 
Why is it that Notre Dame teams perennially underachieve? Why does it always seem like the Irish have trouble focusing right when they should be concentrating the most? Could it possibly be because they are unable to focus on the situ­ation at hand without adding in the rest of the tradition that is at stake? 
During a post-game interview, Dayne Crist said that Notre Dame is “just trying to be masters of our own destiny, take it one game at a time and do everything we can to get wins.” 
Maybe Kelly’s attitude is rubbing off on his players. If that’s the case, then this Irish coach has a chance to return Notre Dame to the glory that so many want — a glory which he should try hard to make his players ignore. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily The Observer. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 


Monday, October 4, 2010 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Irish defense shows up against run 

COLEMAN COLLINS/The Observer 

The Notre Dame defense swarms to stop a Boston College ballcarrier. The Irish defense limited the Eagles to one total yard through the first 13 minutes of the game, and five total yards rushing in the game, on their way to a 31-13 victory. 
Williams said. “But our defense just had a will throw everything they have at you in 
By DOUGLAS FARMER really good game today.” the first quarter, and you have to adjust 
Sports Editor The good game came at an opportune from there. We adjusted well and played 
time for the Irish defense. Saturday morn-assignment-sound football.” 
CHESNUT HILL, Mass. — Coming into ing, ESPN analyst Kirk Herbstreit com-By doing so, the defense fueled the Saturday’s game, the Irish had allowed 190 pared Notre Dame’s defense to that of a offense’s performance, even if it cut down rushing yards per game. high school’s, and while none of the Irish on its rest time, junior quarterback Dayne 
Saturday, they allowed five, compared to would admit to hearing that particular Crist said. forcing 11 Boston College punts and 10 piece of criticism, they did allow that state-“It gives us such momentum, and it takes Eagle three-and-outs. ments like Herbstreit’s both annoy and the life out of teams when the defense 
“We knew what Boston College is like; motivate them. plays as well as it did,” Crist said. “They they are a running team,” sophomore line-“Of course we take [those comments] made our job easier tonight … We love it backer Manti Te’o said. “If you want to very seriously,” Te’o said. “We don’t really when our defense makes another team go win, you have to stop what they do best. It know what’s going on because we don’t three-and-out because it just gives us was hard of course, because they have a really listen to what other people are say-another opportunity to score.” good running back.” ing, but we’re just focused on each other … For possibly the first time this season, the 
Indeed, Boston College running back It doesn’t matter what other people say, but Irish defense was clicking on all cylinders Montel Harris had run for 329 yards in the definitely when we hear that stuff it moti-Saturday, and Te’o said it is something that Eagles’ first three games of the season, but vates us and makes us better.” needs to happen again. for the second year in a row, the Irish That motivation led Te’o and Notre Dame “This is the kind of performance that we stopped him in his tracks. In last season’s to focus on the start of Saturday’s game, a knew that we could do week in and week match-up, Harris accounted for 38 yards job made easier by the Irish offense’s effi-out,” he said. “You just have to keep work-on 22 carries, compared to Saturday’s total cient touchdown on its first drive. ing so that it is more consistent … We just of 28 yards on 15 carries. “We wanted to start off fast, and our have to build off of [Saturday’s perform­
“He’s a very good back. You see that on offense was starting off fast too, so that ance]. We have to use it to motivate us and film,” sophomore linebacker Carlo helped,” Te’o said. “[Boston College] had move forward.” Calabrese said. “We just did what we that one big play, but other than that, we Calabrese agreed with Te’o that haven’t been doing, and we stopped him.” held our ground. It was a good game.” Saturday’s performance should help the 
Te’o and Calabrese each had 10 tackles, After the first quarter, in which the Irish in the future, but he had a more spe­including four for losses. Notre Dame’s Eagles only managed one total yard for the cific goal for the defense coming off of an next highest tackler was senior defensive first 13 minutes, the Irish defense some-effort in which it gave up only five yards tackle Ian Williams with four. Williams said how gained steam, even limiting Boston rushing: the Irish respected Harris, but when the College to one total yard in the entire third “The next is you want minus rushing Notre Dame defense plays like it did quarter. yards.” Saturday, it does not much matter who is “We were just getting comfortable in running the ball at them. what we were seeing,” Te’o said of the 60-Contact Douglas Farmer at 
“Montel Harris is a really good back,” minute performance. “Usually an offense dfarmer1@nd.edu 
ND gets first win at Chesnut Hill since ‘98 
run, and you don’t shoot the future for him.” started as Notre Dame’s 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 

yourself in the foot on special The nation’s fourth-most placekicker. The longest 
Sports Editor 

teams, you’ve got a chance to prolific tackler is Boston streak by a Notre Dame kick-win on the road.” College linebacker Luke er is 16 consecutive games 
CHESTNUT HILL, Mass. — Kuechly with 12.75 take-with a field goal, set by Nick In the series between the Less, but still a lot downs per game. Against the Setta in 2000-02. nation’s only two Catholic One week after recording Irish, Kuechly exceeded his universities playing in the 21 tackles against Stanford, average with 14 tackles. In memoriam Division I Football Bowl sophomore linebacker Manti Boston College senior Subdivision, Notre Dame Te’o only managed 10 tackles Keep on kicking defensive end Alex Albright, earned victories in consecu-Saturday. Through five Senior kicker David Ruffer who recorded the Eagles’ only tive years for the first time games, the native Hawaiian has now converted all 13 of sack, wore No. 78 Saturday in since 1997-98. The latter of has 64 tackles, tied for second his field goal attempts in his memory of his friend and for-those two years was also the in the country with Dwayne career. That streak ties Ruffer mer high school teammate last time the Irish won Woods, Jr., of Bowling Green. for second longest streak in Matt James, who Albright against the Eagles on the Te’o is one tackle behind the school history and for longest played with at St. Xavier in road. Irish coach Brian Kelly nation’s leader — Mario streak to start a career. In Cincinnati. did not miss the importance Harvey of Marshall. both instances, Ruffer is tied James, who had committed of the road win. “He’s a good linebacker,” with Mike Johnston, who to play for Notre Dame, died 
“Any win is a good win,” sophomore linebacker Carlo established his marks in in March. Kelly said. “What I have told Calabrese said of his team-1982. Albright usually wears No. our football team is that when mate. “[Those totals] don’t Furthermore, Ruffer has 98. you go on the road, and you surprise me at all. I think sent a kick through the get off to a good start, and there will be a lot more uprights in eight consecutive Contact Douglas Farmer at play good defense against the games with 20-plus tackles in games — every game he has dfarmer1@nd.edu 
scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
ND  21  3  7  0  31  
BC  7  6  0  0  13  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Boston College 0 
Dayne Crist 7-yard run (David Ruffer kick) with 
13:12 remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 50 yards, 1:48 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 14, Boston College 0 
Kyle Rudolph 2-yard pass from Crist (Ruffer kick) with 6:26 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 59 yards, 3:38 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 21, Boston College 0 
Theo Riddick 20-yard pass from Crist (Ruffer kick) with 2:19 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 72 yards, 2:22 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 21, Boston College 7 
Bobby Swigert 58-yard pass from Chase Rettig (Nate Freese kick) with 0:19 remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 68 yards, 2:00. 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 21, Boston College 10 
Freese 49-yard field goal with 11:32 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 14 yards, 3:20 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 21, Boston College 13 
Freese 25-yard field goal with 6:52 remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 10 yards, 1:18 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 24, Boston College 13 
Ruffer 37-yard field goal with 5:22 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 26 yards, 1:30 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 31, Boston College 13 
Armando Allen 2-yard run (Ruffer kick) with 
4:39 remaining. Drive: 14 plays, 76 yards, 4:44 elapsed. 
statistics 
Rushing Yards 

Passing Yards 

Penalty Yards 

Time of Possession 

passing  
Crist  24-44-203  Marscovetra  22-37-193  
Rettig  5-10-72  
rushing  
Allen  19-90  Harris  15-28  
Hughes  4-12  Rettig  2-6  
Wood  1-6  Marscovetra  6- -29  
Crist  6-5  
receiving  
Riddick  9-69  Swigert  7-137  
Floyd  4-69  Momah  2-31  
Allen  4-26  Lee  3-28  
Goodman  3-19  Phifer  4-13  
Jones  1-14  McMichael  2-12  
Rudolph  1-2  Coleman  1-12  


page 4 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 4, 2010 



Convincing win, but work left 
Notre Dame ended a three-game losing streak with a 31-13 
victory over Boston College Saturday. The Irish scored on their opening drive and never looked back, piling on two more touchdowns before the first quarter ended. 
Junior quarterback Dayne Crist led the offensive onslaught, 
with one rushing touchdown and two more through the air. He ended the game with 203 passing yards, completing passes to seven different receivers. Senior running back Armando Allen led the Irish rushing attack with 90 yards on the ground. The balanced Irish offense tallied 112 total rushing 
yards. Sophomore linebackers Manti Te’o and Carlo Calabrese led the Irish defense as it held the Eagles to only five rushing 
yards, on 23 attempts. 


COLEMAN COLLINS/The Observer YUE WU/The Observer 
Clockwise from top: Carlo Calabrese, left, and Ian Williams close in on a tackle; Theo Riddick and Kyle Rudolph celebrate Riddick’s first quarter touchdown; Calabrese tackles an Eagles ballcarrier in the backfield; a Bosotn College defensive lineman hits Dayne Crist as he releases a throw; Bennett Jackson breaks through the Eagles kickoff return coverage. 






