the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


University looks to revise du Lac 
Student government proposes changes to Notre Dame’s student conduct guidebook 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY and 
SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writers 
Editor’s note: This is the sec­ond and final installment of a two-part series examining the policies and possible revisions of du Lac, the student hand­book. 
Senior John Saulitis has been on both sides of the University’s disciplinary process. 
He faced the consequences of ResLife himself and used that experience to assist others as a peer advocate. 
One thing Saulitis has learned is that students who are ResLifed at Notre Dame are not “criminals.” 
“People make mistakes, and when you make something as rigid as the ResLife process, as du Lac is, you’re going to catch a lot of good people that maybe did something that they regret,” Saulitis said. 
The University is currently making revisions to du Lac, the student handbook, and student government will make recom­mendations for changes Monday. If accepted, the recom­mendations would update du Lac to make it more student-friendly, student body president Grant Schmidt said. 
Associate Vice President for Residence Life Bill Kirk said du 
see DU LAC/page 4 




DanceTeamwinsIrelandchampionship 
Dame. 
This was the group’s first time at this event, said Caitlin O’Brien, a Saint Mary’s senior on the team. 
O’Brien said even though this was the team’s first time com­peting together at the interna­tional level, all of the girls have competed at the national level before individually. 
Mary Miller, a Saint Mary’s junior on the team, said it was nice to finally come together with her former opponents to compete. 
“It was just so exciting com­peting with all my Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame friends,” Miller 
see DANCE/page 6 

By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
The Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame’s Irish Dance team was victorious over the weekend in their competition held in Killarney, Ireland. 
The group, comprised of eight women — five from Saint Mary’s and three from Notre Dame — took first place during the All-Ireland Dance Championships, competing in the Ceili Club Competition Feb. 21. The team is coached by Deirdre Robinett, a senior at Saint Mary’s who won the 2009 World Irish Dancing Championships, and Katie Grennan, a senior at Notre 


Dorm Drinks sold to new ownership 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
A popular campus beverage ven­dor is under new ownership. 
Dorm Drinks, the Notre Dame beverage supplier, changed hands in January, new Chief Executive Officer Marc Anthony Rosa said. 
“We took over in January, so it’s a relatively new thing for us,” Rosa said. 
Rosa, a sophomore, works with two sophomores — Chief Financial Officer Richard Gonzalez and Marketing Director John Paxton — to lead the company. 
“Even during our lulls we’re still seeing growth, so it’s a really excit­ing time to be a part of it,” Rosa said. 
Rosa, Gonzalez and Paxton found out earlier this year that the previ­ous owners, seniors Adam Heisman and Jack Jeffery, were selling the company, Rosa said. 
“Dorm Drinks was created [in 2007] essentially out of need,” Rosa said. “They and their buddies want­ed drinks. They started delivering drinks to their friends and it turned out to be a very profitable company that worked out well.” 
The new owners have seen posi­tive results, Rosa said. 
“It’s been extremely profitable,” Rosa said. “It’s profitable because 
see DRINKS/page 4 

Robinson Center celebrates anniversary 
By JOSEPH MCMAHON 
Associate News Editor 
When the Robinson Community Learning Center (RCLC) first opened nine years ago in the Northeast Neighborhood of South Bend, the Center’s director Jay Caponigro was not really sure how Notre Dame ’s attempt at reaching out to the community would be received. 
“We weren’t sure exactly what we were going to do when we opened the doors,” he said. “We had some ideas from the neighborhood … but we weren’t sure what the best way to do that was.” 
Since that time, Caponigro, who has been the director of the RCLC, a division of the University’s Office of Public Affairs and Communication, since it first opened, has helped build long lasting relationships with communi­ty leaders while improving Notre Dame’s standing in South Bend. 
“I’ve been here nine years since we opened the Robinson Center, and for me it has been a great opportu­nity to represent the University and work with a 
see ROBINSON/page 6 

Students appreciate card swipers 
Friendly dining hall workers help greet patrons with smiles 


By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
If you’ve ever been to South Dining Hall on “wing night,” John Ritschard will be sure to greet you at the door with his dancing chicken and a friendly reminder that delicious wings wait inside. 
Ritschard, who swipes cards during dinner, said he spotted the dancing chicken at a garage sale and just knew it would be perfect. 
“At the last wing night [John] had a stand in front of his card swiping station so that his dancing chicken could 
see SWIPERS/page 6 

SARA FELSENSTEIN/The Observer John Ritschard, right, swipes a student’s ID card as he enters South Dining Hall. 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Jazz festival preview page 3  Farley Fiasco page 12  Women’s basketball heads to Seton Hall page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
INSIDE COLUMN 

‘We’re like a family’ 
I don’t think there’s any way I can really sum up this past year in a column. Serving as Editor-in-Chief of The Observer has been the most challenging and the most rewarding expe­rience of my life. The paper has so shaped my time at Notre Dame; I’ve sacrificed school work, times with friends and much-needed sleep, but, looking back, those things were small compared to the great sense of accomplishment I received by leading a newspaper through easy, and also very difficult, times. 
I’m very proud of my work at The Observer, and more impor­tantly, I’m very proud of my staff. They’ve consistently amazed me with their work ethic, ability and 

Jenn Metz
dedication. I will be forever grateful for having the chance to work with such wonderful peo-Editor- in­ple. Chief 
The thing I’ll miss the most about The Observer is the office itself. The windowless rooms in the basement of South Dining Hall are cluttered time capsules; I’ve found something new every time I’ve been down there. I’ve also found a friend who knows more about The Observer than I can even imagine. 
I can’t claim to be the first person to have the pleasure of working with Shirley Grauel. Our office manager for three decades, Shirley has been a constant presence at The Observer, providing us with much-needed chocolate and a smile every time we pass her desk. 
Shirley calls me “boss” sometimes, a title I find completely inappropriate to describe our relationship. Though we work together, I’ve come to consider her one of my closest friends: someone I can turn to for a hug when times are tough, some­one I can confide in, someone I can trust. 
Past Editors gave me different bits of advice when I took over as Editor-in-Chief, but all were sure to include variations of the same message: Take care of Shirley. Talk to Shirley. Go and see Shirley as much as you can. 
Shirley has shaped their lives as much as my own. She’s the glue that holds The Observer’s past and present together. And it’s for her that generations of Observer alumni will travel to South Bend in a few weeks. 
I can’t wait to meet these people who are currently faceless names to me, to hear their stories, to share our memories of the newspaper and the office that connect us. But more importantly, I can’t wait to have the opportunity to celebrate Shirley’s retirement. I am honored to have worked with her during her final year at The Observer, and only wish future Editors would have been able to meet this amazing individ­ual. 
As I take my nameplate off the door and clear my office of photographs and file folders, I feel content. Though I’ve removed all personal touches, I hope that my work will leave a mark on the paper and the office of Editor-in-Chief, that it will have shaped The Observer into a better publication than it was the year before. I hope that next year’s staff will build upon this year’s accomplishments and continue to strive for journalistic excellence. 
My mark, however, will be miniscule compared to that left by Shirley Grauel. The paper will not be the same without her, and it would not be where it is today if she didn’t take that job 30 years ago. 
When I look back on my time here at Notre Dame, my most important memories will be about The Observer: Seeing my first byline on the front page freshman year; running the News department; interviewing University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh; leading the paper during President Obama’s controversial Commencement appear­ance. Most all of them, however, will be about the people I worked with — thank you for your friendship and support. 
On behalf of all Editors and staff before me, I’d especially like to thank Shirley. You have changed all of our lives for the better, and we are so grateful for knowing you. 
Shirley said it best when talking about the indescribable bond shared by those who have worked at The Observer: “It’s hard to explain … we’re like a family.” 
Though it’s hard to leave the family behind, it’s time for a change. The thing about family, though, is that they’re always with you, and that’s the comfort I take with me closing the Editor-in-Chief’s office door — my office door — for the last time. 
The views expressed in the Inside 
Column are those of the author and 
not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU WERE A UTENSIL, WHAT WOULD YOU BE? 




Ross McCauley  Angie Schott  Ian Montijo  Katie Kyler  
freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  
Stanford  McCandless  Stanford  McCandless  
“A spork  “A spatula  “A grapefruit  “An ice cream  
because it has  because it’s  spoon, sharp as  scoop because  
the best of both  flat.”  a tack but I still  I’d always be  
worlds, like  have curves.”  cool and make  
Hannah  people smile.”  

Montana.” 
HaveanideaforQuestionoftheDay?E-mailobserver.questions@gmail.com 

MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer Students created a snowman on Bond Quad on Thursday. Many Notre Dame students took advantage of the fresh snowfall to partake in winter activities around campus. 
OFFBEAT 
Woman coaxes 5 year old daughter to commit theft 
INDIANAPOLIS — An Indianapolis woman faces a theft charge for allegedly coaxing her 5-year-old daughter into stealing a woman's purse at a restaurant. According to a probable cause affidavit, a 24-year-old woman admit­ted asking her daughter to steal the purse Feb. 14 at a Chuck E. Cheese restau­rant. The woman allegedly told officers she pointed out the purse she wanted her daughter to take and urged her to “Do it for Mommy” when the victim wasn't looking. 
An arrest warrant was issued Thursday for the woman, who faces charges of theft and contributing to delinquency of a minor. 
Virginia couple’s German Shepherd found in Florida 
DELAND, Fla. — A Virginia couple has been reunited with their German shepherd, which was found hundreds of miles from home in Florida. Pamela Holt, of Stuart, Va., says she thought DeLand Animal Control Officer Gary Thomas was playing a “mean trick” when he called to say he found 18­month old Deacon. The dog had been missing since December. The Holts thought their dog had died. 
According to police reports, a convenience store clerk saw Deacon and another dog running in traffic on Feb. 18. The clerk called authorities and the dogs were taken to a kennel. 
Deacon had a microchip implanted, which helped Thomas track down the Holts. The couple arrived in Florida to pick up Deacon this weekend. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The Ten Years Hence Speaker Series presents “The Evolving Media and Its Consequences for American Society” today from 10:40 
a.m. to 12:10 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium at Mendoza College of Business. The event is free and open to the public. 
An Anniversary Celebration for the Robinson Community Learning Center will take place tonight from 5: 30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. The event will take place at the Robinson Community Learning Center and is open to the public. 
The play “Natural Selection” will be performed tonight at 7: 30 p.m. in the Philbin Studio Theatre at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are available by calling 631-2800. 
The film “The Cook, the Thief, His Wife and Her Lover” will show tonight in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for stu­dents, $4 for seniors and $6 for general admission and are available by calling 631-2800. 
An Organ Recital will take place Sunday at 5:30 p.m. in the Reyes Organ and Choral Hall at the DeBartolo Perfomring Arts Center. Tickets are $5 for students, $10 for faculty and staff and $15 for general admission. Tickets are available by call­ing 631-2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Today Tonight SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 




Atlanta 49 / 26 Boston 39 / 33 Chicago 29 / 22 Denver 43 / 27 Houston 61 / 42 Los Angeles 70 / 52 Minneapolis 30 / 9 New York 36 / 33 Philadelphia 38 / 30 Phoenix 74 /53 Seattle 54 / 45 St. Louis 42/ 22 Tampa 61 / 44 Washington 40 / 29 


ND Collegiate Jazz Festival set to begin 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
The 52nd annual University Collegiate Jazz Festival (CJF), the longest-running college jazz event in the nation, will be held at 7 p.m. this Friday and Saturday at Washington Hall. 
Nine bands in total will par­ticipate in CJF, including Notre Dame’s own Jazz Band 1 and the Notre Dame New Orleans Brass Band. 
Other jazz groups repre-Clayton, who has played and recorded with artists like Stevie Wonder, Gladys Knight, Kenny Rodgers, Michael Jackson, Patti LaBelle, Madonna and Earth, Wind & Fire. Other judges include renowned musicians Ira Nepus (trombone), Llew Matthews (piano), Marion Hayden (bass) and Willie Jones III (drums). 
At the end of Friday night’s program, the five judges will play a jam session together. 
The CJF is distinctive because it focuses on learn­
sented at the Festival will come from Tennessee State U n i v e r s i t y, Western Michigan U n i v e r s i t y, Capital (Ohio) U n i v e r s i t y, University of Wisconsin at Stevens Point, Alma (Mi chig an) College, Indiana University at South Bend and the Reunion Jazz 
“Some of the bands this year are perennial favorites, and others are new this year, like Tennessee State. We gradually put things together, from the advertising to the merchandising to encouraging volunteers to participate.” 
Mike Rodio student coordinator 
Orchestra of Chicago. 
“I’m excited to see the out­standing collegiate jazz musi­cians at their best,” said stu­dent coordinator Mike Rodio, a sophomore. “We’re espe­cially happy to welcome the Tennessee State Jazz Collegians this year. Tennessee State has always boasted an extraordinary jazz program, and they will bring some incredible talent to the Festival on Saturday night.” 
Five highly acclaimed jazz artists will judge the per ­formances. The judging panel is led by saxophonist Jeff ing, not rank­ings. The judges will select out ­standing musi­cians from each perform­ing group, and provide a feed­back session for each group immediately after it per ­forms. 

The five judges will also present a clinic Saturday at 10 
a.m. in the Ricci Band Rehearsal Hall on the east side 
of campus. The clinic is free and open to the public. The judges will discuss and demonstrate performance methods, and answer ques­tions about instrumental techniques and different jazz styles. 
Rodio and fellow sophomore student coordinator Bert Hootsmans have been work­ing on the Festival since the beginning of the year. Amy Geist of the Student Union Board and Larry Dwyer, Director of Jazz Studies and Assistant Director of Bands, also helped to coordinate the Festival. 
“We started with the basics, sending information about the Festival to jazz groups throughout the nation,” Rodio said. “Some of the bands this year are perennial favorites, and others are new this year, like Tennessee State. We gradually put things together, from the advertising to the merchandising to encourag­ing volunteers to partici ­pate.” 
Rodio said he believes jazz is still very popular among the young people of college campuses, and that even if students don’t regularly lis­ten to jazz, they should still come out and see the show. 
“Jazz is very much alive on college campuses, and we’re proud of Notre Dame’s tradi­tion of showcasing collegiate jazz talent from across the nation,” Rodio said. 
All CJF events are free but ticketed for Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross students. Tickets are avail­able at the LaFortune Box Office. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 



ND Mobile Web Arrives 
this mobile platform was allows users to browse 
By CASEY KENNY 
developed through a close videos on Notre Dame ’s 
News Writer 
collaboration between OIT YouTube channel, and and OPAC. NDPrayerCast, which deliv-
Notre Dame ’s Office of “The world of communica-ers spiritual content such Information Technologies tions and technology is as information about (OIT), in collaboration with intrinsically linked and our Basilica masses and campus its Office of Public Affairs partnership is key to deliv-ministry. and Communications ering new tools to campus Students are enthusiastic (OPAC), recently released to help our Notre Dame about this new site and the ND Mobile family stay opportunity to get immedi-Web to pro -educated, ate answers to questions vide mobile “Everyone on campus engaged and and concerns. device users connected, ” “I really like the ‘Find an 
seems to have mobile
with useful said Todd Open Lab’ feature,” fresh-information phones and we were Wo odward, man Joe Mackel said. “It about Notre looking for a way to associate vice keeps you from wasting D a m e president for time waiting in line for a
provide the mobile
resources. m a r k e t i n g computer.” The Web experience to them.” communica -Junior Tim Purcell also s i t e , tions. likes the convenience and 
m.nd.edu, is One of the real -time features of the 
Chas Grundy 
accessible to features of ND Mobile Web. 
OPAC director of interac­
a global audi-Mobile Web is “Now I can save time and 
tive marketing 
ence and con-its “Find an check scores when I’m 
nects users with a wide selection of Notre Dame resources, such as news, athletics, emergency cam­pus information, OIT alerts and student, faculty and staff directories. 
The mobile Web site was launched to meet the grow­ing popularity of smart phones. 
“Everyone on campus seems to have mobile phones and we were look­ing for a way to provide the mobile experience to them,” said Chas Grundy, OPAC’s director of interactive mar­keting. “ND Mobile Web on your phone is a great way to find a number, check out a computer lab, or grab ND news and sports scores.” 
According to a recent University press release, Open Lab ” standing in line at 
r e s o u r c e . A Starbucks,” he said. “Maybe student interested in seeing in the future they can even whether a particular com-put The Observer on puter lab is busy can choose Mobile.” this feature and be provided Such an idea may be a with the real-reality in the time number future for the 
of available resources of 
“It keeps you from
computers. the Mobile Web 
wasting time waiting
“The new are expected mobile cul -in line for a to grow rapid­ture empha -computer.” ly. sizes real -“We are con-time answers tinuing to 
Joe Mackel 
to your most develop ND pressing freshman Mobile Web, ” questions, ” Grundy said. Grundy said “In the future, in the press release. “It we hope to add more fea­empowers you right now tures such as an online because of where you are map, calendars, tools, and what you are doing.” events and more.” 
Other resources available on ND Mobile Web include Contact Casey Kenny at ND on YouTube, which ckenny@nd.edu 

ND prof wins CAREER award 
Special to the Observer 
Robert Nerenberg, assis­tant professor in the Department of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences at the University 
of Notre Dame, has been named a 2010 National Science Foundation (NSF) Early Career Development (CAREER) Award recipient. The CAREER program, established by the NSF in 1995, is the highest honor given by the U.S. govern­ment to young faculty in engineering and science. 
A faculty member since 2004, Nerenberg’s research centers on biofilm process­es in environmental engi­neering, especially for water and wastewater treatment. For example, he and his research team have developed a novel waste ­water treatment process, the Hybrid Membrane -Biofilm Process (HMBP), that reduces energy requirements by up to 50 percent and minimizes emissions of nitrous oxide (N2O), a potent greenhouse gas. 
Nerenberg ’s CAREER project, titled “Dynamic Structure and Function of Biofilms for Wastewater Treatment,” uses a novel research platform combin­ing microsensors —bacteria tagged with an anaerobic fluorescent protein — and confocal laser scanning microscopy, to determine the dynamic behavior of bacterial biofilms. The new platform will be used to study the effects of biofilm detachment and re-growth, as well as sudden shifts in nutrient concentrations, on the biofilm microbial com­munity structure, activity and N2O emissions. This research is directly rele ­vant to biofilms in waste­water treatment but may also enable research on industrial and clinical biofilms. 
Several educational com­ponents were included in this CAREER project. For example, Nerenberg will work with Hispanic stu ­dents in local schools, encouraging them to pursue careers in engineering and science. He is well suited for this task, given his 14 years living in Argentina, where he obtained his sec­ondary and undergraduate education. He also will train local high school teachers to use simple molecular tools and help them develop teaching mod­ules for their students. In addition, a pilot undergrad­uate research exchange program with the Pontificia Universidad Católica in Chile will be initiated as a means to provide collabora­tive international research experiences for undergrad­uate and graduate students. 
Nerenberg is a member of the American Society of Civil Engineers, American Society for Microbiology, American Water Works Association, International Water Association and Water Environment Federation. 
Nerenberg received his doctorate in civil and envi­ronmental engineering from Northwestern University in 2003 and his bachelor’s in civil engineering from the University of Buenos Aires in 1990. 

ing game sanctions unless they
Du Lac 
are really serious.” Along with the medical 
continued from page 1 
amnesty policy, student govern­
ment is also discussing a recom-Lac is reviewed every six to mendation to lift the ban on eight years, and he character-drinking games, Schmidt said. ized this process as a “major” “I’m not trying to condone review. underage drinking,” Schmidt 
The University is evaluating said. “But we are trying to all student life policies for “their address that the general culture effectiveness, consistency and on campus has changed.” appropriateness with [the Weber said drinking games University’s] mission,” Kirk said. have become a part of the cul-
Schmidt said the most impor-ture, and are often times not tant recommendation will be for abusive. the adoption of a medical “The genesis of drinking amnesty policy, which was games has gone from drinking recently passed in Student games are a way to get drunk, Senate. whereas now drinking games 
If adopted by the University, are such a part of drinking cul­the policy would prevent a stu-ture,” Weber said. “Drinking dent seeking medical treatment games happen to be a part of for a friend from getting in trou-the casual drinking culture that ble with the Office of Residence is not binge drinking.” Life and Housing (ORLH). Schmidt said the goal is to 
The policy would allow ORLH prevent abusive drinking, and to educate the student, through allowing drinking games on alcohol classes for example, but campus may help reduce the the incident would not go on the number of students who go to student’s disciplinary record, off-campus parties. Schmidt said. “We will recommend that they 
Saulitis agreed that student at least look at that policy safety should come before the because a lot of times students rules of du Lac. are driven to off-campus parties 
“Maybe that person falls and [because of on-campus alcohol 
of both the University and the O’Brien said the team wants to hurts themselves and there’s rules],” he said. “We want peo-
College. make the All-Ireland competition 

Dance 
“Because the team is com-a tradition in the years to come. until the morning if they’ve Kirk said it is unlikely the parietals. You can’t sit there ple to stay on campus.” 
continued from page 1 prised of both Saint Mary’s and “We hope that our success at broke an arm or something like University will revise du Lac to 
Notre Dame students, we hoped the competition has laid a strong that,” Saulitis said. “Student allow drinking games. 
said. “We all went to different that attending the All-Ireland foundation for future teams to be safety should always come “Drinking games are virtually 
dance schools and competed Dance Championships would sent on behalf of Saint Mary’s before the rules at Notre always associated with drinking 
against each other when we bring further recognition to the and Notre Dame,” she said. Dame.” alcohol to excess and with the 
were younger, and it was awe-strong Irish heritage that is The entire dance team at Saint Kirk said his Office has not yet intention of becoming intoxicat­
some for all of us to compete on prominent between the two cam-Mary’s and Notre Dame is actual-been provided with details on ed … I can’t envision a change 
the same team years later in puses,” O’Brien said. ly made up of more than 50 student government’s sugges-in our rules or regulations that 
Ireland.” She said she hopes this victory dancers, and is “one of the tion for a medical amnesty poli-would in any way moderate the 
O’Brien said each competing will bring more attention to the largest and highest quality teams cy. University’s disapproval of such 
team performs two choreo-club on the two campuses, like in the country,” O’Brien. Schmidt said student govern-behavior,” he said. 
graphed dances, which are the recognition they have gained The decision to participate in ment will also propose that dis-Kellogg said drinking games 
judged by a panel of five judges. in the Irish dancing community. the competition was “made to cipline be handled at the most can be problematic in the 
“In this particular competition, “We also hoped that beginning further perpetuate the growth localized level possible. In par-dorms, especially for freshmen. 
the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s this tradition would help to pro-and improvements that the team ticular, the recommendation will “Its so easy to get drunk faster 
Ceili was the only American team vide great recognition to a club has been experiencing since its ask that first offenses be han-than you intend to,” she said. 
and also the only college team to that is very much involved with inception in 2000,” O’Brien said. dled at the discretion of the rec-Under student government’s 
participate,” O’Brien said. activities between the Saint tor. recommendation for a revision 
She said the team hoped to Mary’s and Notre Dame commu-Contact Ashley Charnley at “If you [get in trouble] in of the drinking game ban, the 
represent the Irish background nity,” O’Brien said. acharn01@saintmarys.edu Fisher, don’t you think if it’s rector would determine whether your first incidence of intoxica-the drinking game caused stu­tion, the rector of Fisher should dents to abuse alcohol, Schmidt probably call your rector?” said. Schmidt said. As a rector, Kellogg said she 
Student body vice president sees her role in enforcing du Cynthia Weber said, “Our men-Lac as educational. tality is that problems should be “It’s not just a list of dos and dealt with at the most localized don’ts,” she said. “It’s more level. Things that can be han-about living together in a com­dled in dorm often should be munity that is fair and pleasant handled in dorm.” for everyone.” 
Breen Phillips Hall rector In his role as a peer advocate, Rachel Kellogg said many du Saulitis said while every Lac first-time offenses are han-University needs a disciplinary dled in the residence halls, and process, he sees some weak-she thinks students are often nesses in the ResLife system. unaware of this as ORHL and “I think the biggest problem rectors are concerned about with ResLife that they’ve gotten privacy issues. to the point where it’s all about 
“There are a lot of first-time the rules and not about the stu­issues that get dealt with in hall dents anymore,” he said. that I think a lot of people don’t To make the process more see,” Kellogg said. “about the students,” Saulitis 
Schmidt recognized that many recommended students work for rectors already communicate ORLH and sit on the decision-with each other before taking making panel in administrative the discipline to a higher level, hearings. but said this policy would make “I think students would be as it a requirement that a student’s tough as the people in Reslife,” rector be given the choice to he said. “I think a student would deal with the incident in the ask different questions, would dorm. ask important questions.” 
Junior Zach Reuvers has been Kirk said the University is ResLifed more than once, and seeking student input on possi­he said he sees an inconsistency ble du Lac revisions. in the way the University han-“We look forward to hearing dles some infractions in the from students,” he said. “All the dorm and some in ORLH. input will be considered — 
Reuvers said he was ResLifed whether or not it will find its for playing beer pong — a way into the revision of du Lac drinking game involving shoot-will depend entirely upon its ing ping-pong balls in cups of consistency with the University’s beer — in his dorm room, but mission to contribute to the he said he knows of other moral, intellectual, spiritual and instances where drinking game social growth of the students violations only levied a hall fine. and groups that make up our 
“The [disciplinary] process in University community.” the residence halls needs a clar­ification,” Reuvers said. “They Contact Madeline Buckley at admitted in my hearing that mbuckley@nd.edu and Sarah they don’t typically hear drink-Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 





World & Nation 
Friday, February 26, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Heavy rain hits quake-ravaged capital 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti — The first heavy rain since the earthquake doused Haiti’s capital Thursday night, soaking hundreds of thousands of homeless in a city where bar­ren hillsides and weakened buildings are threatening to give way. 
The storm hit as relief officials changed tack on dealing with quake survivors, delay­ing plans to build big refugee camps outside Port-au-Prince. Instead, they want the homeless to pack up their tents and tarps and return to destroyed neighborhoods. 
People dashed for shelter down streets streaming with runoff from the driving trop­ical rain. The downpour swept trash along roadside gutters, clogging drains and turn­ing depressions into ponds. 

Turkish court charges officers in coup 
ANKARA, Turkey — The struggle between the secular Turkish military and the Islamic-oriented government reached new heights Wednesday as a court jailed 12 senior officers — including five admi­rals, an army general and six other offi­cers. 
The officers are charged with plotting several years ago to topple the government of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, news reports said Wednesday. More offi­cers could be charged later this week. 
Former chiefs of Air Force, Navy and Special Forces were also among about 50 officers detained by police in a sweep Monday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Rhode Island teachers appeal firings 
PROVIDENCE — The entire staff of teachers fired in a radical attempt to improve one of the worst performing high schools in Rhode Island will appeal their dismissals to school authorities, the head of the teachers union said Thursday. 
The board of trustees overseeing the school system in Central Falls, one of the poorest com­munities in the state, voted Tuesday to fire 88 high school teachers and other support staff by the end of the year. Other administrators will also lose their jobs. 
Those teachers will appeal their dismissals to the school district’s board of trustees, said Jane Sessums, president of the Central Falls Teachers’ Union. She plans to meet with union lawyers and other labor representatives in the coming days before deciding whether to take additional legal action. 
Sessums said she still hopes negotiations will resume, although her union has not made any requests to school officials to continue talks. 

Orthodox Jewish school forfeits game 
YAKIMA, Wash. — A small Orthodox Jewish school forfeited a consolation game in a Washington state high school basketball tourna­ment so players could safely observe a religious fast. 
Northwest Yeshivam elected to forfeit the game Thursday rather than break the “Fast of Esther,” one of five fasts on the Jewish calendar that prohibits eating or drinking anything until nightfall. 
School officials said the risk to players not able 
to rehydrate during the game was unacceptable. 
The on-court formalities were brief. 
Northwest Yeshiva players, led by coach Jed 
LOCAL NEWS 

Woman accused of using child in theft 
INDIANAPOLIS — An Indianapolis woman faces a theft charge for allegedly coaxing her 5-year-old daughter into stealing a woman’s purse at a restaurant. According to a proba­ble cause affidavit, a 24-year-old woman admitted asking her daughter to steal the purse Feb. 14 at a Chuck E. Cheese restau­rant. The woman allegedly told officers she pointed out the purse she wanted her daugh­ter to take and urged her to “Do it for Mommy” when the victim wasn’t looking. 
An arrest warrant was issued Thursday for the woman, who faces charges of theft and contributing to delinquency of a minor. 


Governor will run for reelection 
New York’s Paterson won’t drop bid despite domestic violence scandal 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Despite calls from leading Democrats to step aside, Gov. David Paterson said Thursday he won’t drop his election bid amid a growing scandal surrounding accu­sations of domestic violence against a key aide. 
The embattled governor said he will be speaking to key New York Democrats about his political future but for now he’s continuing his campaign to be elected governor. Paterson rose to governor in 2008, when for­mer Gov. Eliot Spitzer resigned in a prostitution scandal. 
Paterson also said he will cooperate fully with a state attorney general’s investiga­tion into contact his admin­istration had with a woman who accused aide David Johnson of domestic vio­lence. No criminal charges were brought after the Halloween 2009 confronta­tion. 
“I’m not suspending my campaign, but I am talking to a number of elected offi­cials around the state as I would fellow Democrats to hear their opinions,” Paterson said before a gala of the group 100 Black Men at a Manhattan hotel. 
Asked if he would with­draw if fellow Democrats asked him to, Paterson responded: “I am obviously listening to them. I’ve got an open mind about this thing. I want the Democrats to win in November.” 
Paterson’s comments came after a day of devel­opments surrounding Johnson and any role the administration and state police played after the Halloween confrontation. 
Paterson’s top criminal justice Cabinet member resigned over the burgeon­ing scandal, saying conduct by the state police was “dis­tressing” for an administra­tion that has devoted itself to reducing domestic vio­lence. 
Elected officials and other candidates for office clam-ored for Paterson to end his campaign — formally launched just days ago — as the turmoil mushroomed around Johnson. A police report detailed in The New York Times discusses a con­frontation between Johnson and the woman over her Halloween costume. 

The Times reported Wednesday on court papers showing a phone call between state police and the woman. Paterson’s office acknowledges he talked to the woman but says she placed the call, and a spokesman for the governor denied anyone tried to keep the woman from pursuing a domestic-violence case. 
Paterson’s office has not made Johnson available for comment. 
The state police said in a news release that they won’t comment on any aspect of the case during the investigation by the office of Andrew Cuomo, the popular attorney gener­al whom many would like to see run as the Democratic candidate for governor instead of Paterson. 
The Paterson administra­tion asked Cuomo’s office to investigate the matter, and the attorney general’s office said it would look into whether crimes or other wrongdoing were commit­ted. The state police said Cuomo asked the agency not to open its own internal probe. 
Rick Lazio, a Republican candidate for governor, said Cuomo should tell New Yorkers if any of his staff gave the Times any infor­mation for the Johnson story. 
“If you do not disavow any connection to this story the same conflict of interest would be present and any findings of your investiga­tion would be immediately called into question,” Lazio said in a written statement. 
Criminal Justice Services Commissioner Denise O’Donnell abruptly quit Thursday afternoon, saying state police Superintendent Harry Corbitt had assured her his agency was not involved in the confronta­tion involving Johnson. 
Corbitt denies misleading O’Donnell. He said that he told her state police weren’t involved in the investiga­tion, not that they hadn’t contacted the woman. 

Scholars debate late-term abortion bill 
Associated Press 
LINCOLN, Neb. — Legal experts from both sides of the abortion rights debate clashed Thursday over whether a Nebraska bill seeks to out­law most abortions after 20 weeks would pass constitutional muster. 
Emboldened by the Supreme Court’s 2007 decision upholding a ban on what abortion rights opponents call partial-birth abortions, in which a fetus is partially removed from the woman’s womb and then destroyed, some Nebraska legislators are seek­ing to ban all late-term abortions except when the mother’s life is threatened. They’re basing their argument on the disputed notion that a fetus feels pain during the proce­dure. 
“This legislation has a very strong chance of provoking a constitutional challenge, but also of prevailing,” said Teresa Collett, a law professor at the University of St. Thomas in Minneapolis, who testified at a leg­islative hearing on the bill at the behest of National Right to Life. 
Caitlin Borgmann, a law professor at The City University of New York, disagreed. 
“It bans all abortions at a fixed time of pregnancy before viability. That is a slippery slope,” she said. 
If the bill were to pass — and it’s unclear it would — it would surely face a court challenge and could end up in front of the Supreme Court. The committee did not indicate when it might vote on the bill. 
The U.S. Supreme Court established in its 1973 Roe v. Wade decision that a woman has the constitutional right to an abortion. 
But supporters of the Nebraska leg­islation say the high court’s ruling on so-called partial-birth abortion, in which the court for the first time upheld a ban on a specific type of pro­cedure, opened the door to challenge other procedures. 
They say the ruling acknowledged states have an interest in preserving fetal life. And they say the court dis­carded Roe v. Wade’s viability requirement because the so-called partial-birth method could have been used to abort fetuses before they could survive outside the womb. 
The RCLC now serves over 
RobinsonDrinks 
5,000 South Bend residents 
continued from page 1 each academic year through “innovative programs” such we offer really low costs and 
continued from page 1 
as tutoring, violence-preven­people respond well to it.” 
great team that really cares tion, youth entrepreneurship Students place orders through 
a lot about what was going and performing arts projects dormdrinks.com and deliveries 
on in the neighborhood,” he for adults and children, are made on Wednesdays and 
said. “A primary goal of ours Caponigro said. Sundays, Rosa said. 
has been to build relation-“What we’ve done over the “You come back to your dorm 
ships between Notre Dame past nine years is build those and you want a snack, and you 
and the community.” relationships and couple have it right there at your 
While the Robinson Center them with programs that door,” Rosa said. 
will celebrate its ninth really focus on helping Rosa said dormdrinks.com, 
anniversary at a ceremony young people realize their the group’s Web site, will soon 
this Friday from 5:30 to 7:30 potential with math, with be redone. 
p.m., Caponigro will be pro-science, with the performing “We’re going to make it easi­
moted to director of commu-arts and helping senior citi­er,” Rosa said. “We want as few 
nity engagement, effective zens experience things they steps as possible for you to get 
March 1. never have before like play-your stuff.” 
“The University built a lot ing the [Nintendo] Wii and The new Web site is slated for 
of trust over the past nine building their own Web release sometime next week, 
years from a lot of different sites,” he said. Rosa said. 
initiatives and because of “That’s been the best part Besides a new Web site, the 
that it has created more of this job — that we’ve been company will also experience a 
opportunities for us to col-able to help people realize new management style. “Student clubs want to have ed to get their plans off the 
laborate with more partners their potential by offering “We found for what they did, events where they offer bever-ground,” Rosa said. “One band 
in the community,” he said. programs that really pique it worked very well for them,” ages with competitive prices, turned into two and before I 
“That’s what the new posi-their interest.” Rosa said. “It worked for now, and that’s something these knew it I created a media man­
tion takes off into.” Caponigro said the RCLC but it’s not going to work in the clubs don’t want to have to agement company.” 
According to Caponigro, has been aided by the over future. For future plans we’re think about,” Rosa said. The company manages the 
the University ’s desire to 250 Notre Dame students just going to have to change Rosa said the most popular long-term career goals of colle­
increase collaboration who volunteer there. several aspects.” item is Nestle Pure Life bottled giate bands, Rosa said. 
between Notre Dame and the “It helps us do so much These aspects include the dis-water. Rosa said proper time man-
community led to the cre -more, ” he said “We can tributors the company uses and “Something that people don’t agement is how he gets every­
ation of his new position. reach out to the community the ways its clients are handled. know is that we have snacks, thing done. 
“That’s what this new job with those great resources.” Dorm Drinks hopes to expand like chips and cookies,” Rosa “Despite this economy, there 
will be about — to help Although he is scheduled to other campuses, including said. “Soon we’ll be offering is still money out there,” Rosa 
refine our engagement so to be promoted soon, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross, as macaroni and cheese and other said. “You have to refine what 
that we really do have an Caponigro said the Robinson well as regionally, Rosa said. meal products.” you need and be very specific 
impact where needed,” he Center had not yet named “By next year we should have This isn’t Rosa’s first experi-and on top of your game. 
said. his successor, but they con-at least four,” Rosa said. “I hope ence with owning a business — There’s no doubt in my mind 
One strong indicator of the tinue to “search for the best that’s something we stick to.” Rosa also owns a media man-that you can get the resources, 
need to expand service enti-candidate.” In addition to external expan-agement company. funding, manpower and prod-
ties like the Robinson Center In the future, Caponigro sion, Rosa said Dorm Drinks “It started out as a side proj-ucts that you want.” 
is the community’s changed said he would continue to hopes to expand internally, ect. A couple of my buddies 
attitude toward the work to improve Notre offering services to student were in bands and they needed Contact Amanda Gray at 
University. Caponigro said Dame’s presence in South clubs and faculty. some business help. They need-agray3@nd.edu 
when he was first appointed Bend and build relationships RCLC director, he often with both community leaders heard the criticism that and ordinary citizens. Notre Dame wasn’t involved “I hope those partnerships break. They also offer candy worked inside the dining in the community. continue because this place bars on students ’ hall, serving hot food and “Now, I hear the criticism runs on them,” he said. 

Swipers 
birthdays. manning the salad bar. She that more neighborhoods continued from page 1 “We check for birthdays has been swiping cards for 
want Robinson Centers,” he Contact Joseph McMahon at 
on students’ ID cards,” Lila the last 13 years. 

said. jmcmaho6@nd.edu
said. “If it’s their birthday, “I like just talking to stu­have more room to move,” we give them a candy bar. dents, ” Lootens said. “I sophomore Theresa Hall Usually they’re surprised enjoy the students and said. and don ’t know how we everything about this job.” 
Ritschard will also make knew it was their birthday. Lootens usually works sure to let students know It’s a simple little thing we during lunch with her good when the dining hall serves do, but it ’s nice because friend Barbara Varga at steak fries or the coveted they ’re far away from North Dining Hall. hot apple crisp. home.” “I just love when [the stu-
Ritschard and his wife Lila Ada Bradley also swipes dents] come in,” Varga said. swipe ID cards together on cards at South Dining Hall “I speak to every one of the right side of South during dinner. She has been them.” Dining Hall three nights a working on the Notre Dame Varga adds a unique touch week. Both said they just campus for 20 years. She to her job by entertaining enjoy talking to students was first involved with the students with her famous and hearing how their days catering services and then word of the day. have been. did some bartending before “Today’s word is ‘cents­
“John and Lila are both she began swiping cards at iblity’ because I think stu­always so upbeat and happy South Dining Hall. dents should be sensible to see everyone. John “The students keep us with their money,” Varga always has compliments young,” Bradley said. “I’m said. “Students will usually and says how glad he is to still in touch with some ask me what my word of the see you, ” sophomore graduated students.” day is. Sometimes I make up Christina Carson said. “If Bradley said she always my own, but usually I try to you ask him how he is, he tries to raise students’ spir-find ones like ‘wonderful,’ sometimes replies with ‘I’m i t s i f t h e y s e e m t i r e d o r ‘amazing’ and ‘fantastic.’” as fine a frog’s hair’ or ‘I’m overwhelmed with school-Meals are traditionally a as fine as the hair on a work. time of relaxation and com-flea.’” “[Students] are down fort spent with family or 
Hall also appreciates the sometimes and you have to friends. But in college, it’s enthusiasm the Ritschards build them up. I always tell easy to rush through them bring to the job. them better times are com-just like everything else. 
“John is always comment-ing,” Bradley said. “I saw a Many students said they ing on how he and his wife girl crying once and I told appreciate the positive are glad we could make it her ‘If this is over a fella, greetings they receive from or that it’s a pleasure hav-he’s not worth it.’” card swipers — greetings ing us at the dining South Dining Hall may that remind students to hall,” Hall said. “He lets have that traditional colle-enjoy their meals and forget people know if there ’s giate atmosphere, but North their stress for a little something good at the home Dining Hall has multiple while. style or carving station. He levels and more open space. “I love how friendly is always telling people But which dining hall has Charlotte [Lootens] is, ” what he recommends they the friendlier card swipers sophomore Lauren Ruhling try that night.” greeting students each day? said. “She even checks your 
John and Lila Ritschard Now that’s an impossible ID card to try and remem­do their best to reach out to call. ber your name. Being so far students beyond casual con-Charlotte Lootens works away from home, it’s nice to versation. They brought three days a week at North be greeted by a familiar several students home for Dining Hall during both face when I go to relax at Thanksgiving dinner last breakfast and lunch, and the dining hall.” November and gave out has worked for Notre Dame miniature candy canes at Food Services for almost 28 Contact Sara Felsenstein at the last meal before winter years. For 15 years she sfelsens@nd.edu 


The Observer 




Business
Friday, February 26, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
Insurers subpoenaed for documents 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. — California Attorney General Jerry Brown subpoenaed financial records from the state’s seven largest health insurance companies Thursday, saying he’s con­cerned companies are unjustly raising premi­ums. 
The subpoenas include Anthem Blue Cross, the state’s largest for-profit health insurer, which has come under fire recently for a proposed rate hike of up to 39 percent. 
“Not only are the rate increases devastating to Californians strapped by the economy, but in some cases, they are possibly illegal,” Brown said in a statement. 
Brown said he’s also worried that the compa­nies have been denying payment for legitimate insurance claims. 
The subpoenas cover fee-for-service health plans that reimburse doctors and hospitals for each service performed. Last month, Brown’s office issued subpoenas to the same seven com­panies regarding their managed care plans, known as HMOs. 
Brown said the companies had 30 days to hand over the requested documents. He said his investigation will examine whether rate increas­es such as Anthem’s violate state law and whether the other health plans are planning similar premium hikes. 

Old Navy boosts Gap’s earnings 
NEW YORK — After posting a 45 percent profit increase in the fourth quarter powered by its low-price Old Navy chain, Gap Inc. is now focusing this year on increasing market share across its North American businesses and seeking growth opportunities overseas. 
The company, which also operates the Gap and Banana Republic chains, forecast brighter days for its fiscal 2011. 
Its shares rose more than 2 percent, or 41 cents, to $20.80 in after-hours trading after the results were released. They had closed up 49 cents to $20.39 on Thursday. 
“You won’t hear anybody in this business talk about a turnaround plan,” said Glenn Murphy, chairman and chief executive in an address to investors following the release of the report. “We can now evolve the business and start talking about how (it) is going to grow and move forward and compete and win.” 


Hummer prepares to say goodbye 
Popular military-inspired SUV done in by high gas prices and bad economic times 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — One thing you can say about the Hummer, roaring down the road, towering over subcom­pacts like an NBA center in a sea of toddlers: It always drew a reaction. 
The beefy, military-inspired SUV began as a macho icon for enthusiasts like Arnold Schwarzenegger, who cam­paigned for governor in a Hummer. For others it was a symbol of excess, environ­mental ruin and tackiness — a view that seemed to grow in direct proportion to gas prices and economic distress. 
And now the brand is likely no more. General Motors Co. said Wednesday its bid to sell Hummer to a Chinese heavy equipment manufacturer had collapsed. Government regulators in Beijing failed to approve the sale and GM said it would have no choice but to let the brand die, 18 years after its first and most enormous model started lumbering off the assembly line. 
“Finally,” said Ann Mesnikoff, director of the green transportation cam­paign at the Sierra Club in Washington. “The Hummer was the epitome of gas guz­zling.” 
Schwarzenegger, who was instrumental in popularizing large numbers for the peaked at 71,524 in 2006, ing a Big Wheel, a Tonka the vehicle, had a much dif-Army in World War II. The plunged to just more than toy,” said Sitterle, 28, who ferent reaction two decades jeep evolved into the 9,000 vehicles in 2009. In also sits on the board of ago when he first saw the Humvee, which saw heavy January, GM sold just 265 Hummer’s national owners Hummer’s direct military action — and entered Hummers in the U.S. club. “There’s not very ancestor. Then a body Americans’ consciousness Robert Thompson, pro-many vehicles that can builder turned movie star, he — during the Gulf War. fessor of popular culture at climb the side of a moun­was on his way to the set of In the late 1990s, GM Syracuse University, said tain and take you on a lux­“Kindergarten Cop” in bought Hummer from AM that just as the Hummer ury cruise at 80 miles per Oregon when an Army con-General and began selling had cemented an image of hour on the way home.” voy packed with Humvees a smaller but still outsized military might combined Sitterle bought his H2 in thundered past. model, the H2. Sales with off-road brawn, 2007. He noticed other 
“I put the brakes on,” boomed after its 2005 changes in public senti-people’s attitudes toward Schwarzenegger said at the introduction of an even ment turned SUVs “into Hummers started changing 1992 ceremony that AM smaller model, the H3, tantamount to the creation soon after. Some even General, besieged by that was roughly equiva-of the devil himself.” approached him at gas sta­requests, held to start pro-lent in size to other “Hummer almost tions in the summer of duction of civilian Hummers. automakers’ full-size becomes the extreme case 2008, when gas prices shot “Someone smashed into the SUVs. of that — the ruler of the above $4 a gallon for the back of me, but I just stared. Hummer’s image began devils,” Thompson said. first time ever. ‘Oh my God, there is the to change as gas prices For Eric Sitterle, a tech-“Why that vehicle? Why vehicle,’ I said. And from began creeping higher, the nical recruiter in so much gas?” Sitterle said then on, I was possessed.” economy started to crack Cincinnati, his Hummer H2 they would ask. 
Hummer’s earliest prede-and the U.S. entered the isn’t a devil — it’s a great “Sometimes I’d give them a cessor was the jeep, the boxy most difficult period of the big toy. completely arrogant multipurpose vehicle built in Iraq war. Sales, which “You feel like a kid driv-response.” 


Montana billionaire stands ground in trial 
Associated Press said Blixseth is guilty of “looting” $286 Capital Partners is simply trying to 
million of it for his own use, even as he make more money by buying up the 
MISSOULA, Mont. — Yellowstone knew bankruptcy loomed. debt out of bankruptcy in order to pur-Club founder Tim Blixseth stayed on There didn’t appear too be many sue Blixseth personally. the attack Thursday as lawyers and innocent parties left digging through His lawyers have argued that Credit accountants debated over who knew the debris and dirty laundry of the for-Suisse stacked the bankruptcy trustee what — and when — during the finan-mer billion-dollar empire’s financial board with insiders in order to focus cial collapse of the ultra-exclusive ashes. the attack on Blixseth. alpine getaway for the rich and Blixseth came from the timber busi-“It may be legal, but it’s sneaky,” famous. ness to build a real estate empire that Blixseth said standing outside the 
Nearly $300 million of Blixseth’s stretched around the world and courtroom during a break. personal fortune is at stake — just a catered to the likes of Microsoft Corp. Testimony focused on whether bank-piece of one of the biggest bankruptcy co-founder Bill Gates and former Vice ruptcy loomed as Credit Suisse offered cases ever to roll through Montana, as President Dan Quayle. the loan and Blixseth transferred the best experts money can buy bat-He thrashed “Predator Suisse” and money from the club to other assets. tled in a packed Missoula bankruptcy the club’s new owners for picking on Blixseth experts, spreadsheets and court. him with legal tricks. Blixseth said that projections demonstrated that the club 
Banking giant Credit Suisse is Credit Suisse promised him there was flush with money and solvent — accused of pushing a $375 million loan would be no personal obligation to him while lawyers for the creditors essen­the club had no hope of repaying while if the club took the big loan. And he tially said the numbers were cooked “lining its pockets” with fees. Creditors said Boston-based CrossHarbor and the exhibits full of “garbage.” 

SeaWorld keeps whale despite trainer’s death 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. — Despite calls to free or destroy the ani­mal, SeaWorld said Thursday it will keep the killer whale that drowned its trainer, but will suspend all orca shows while it decides whether to change the way handlers work with the behemoths. 
Also, VIP visitors who occa­sionally were invited to pet the killer whales will no longer be allowed to do so. 
“We’re going to make any changes we have to to make sure this doesn’t happen again,” Chuck Tompkins, chief of animal training at SeaWorld parks, said a day after a 12,000-pound killer whale named Tilikum dragged a trainer into its pool and thrashed the woman to death as audience members watched in horror. 
Talk-radio callers, bloggers and animal activists said Tilikum — which was involved in the deaths of two other peo­ple over the past two decades 
— should be released into the ocean or put to death like a dangerous dog. 
Tompkins said that Tilikum would not survive in the wild because it has been captive for so long, and that destroying the animal is not an option either, because it is an important part of the breeding program at SeaWorld and a companion to the seven other whales there. 
Dawn Brancheau, a 40-year­old veteran trainer who adored whales, was rubbing Tilikum from a poolside platform when the 22-foot creature grabbed the woman’s ponytail in its jaws and pulled her in. Witnesses said the whale played with Brancheau like a toy. 
“He kept pushing her and poking her with his nose,” said Paula Gillespie of Delaware, who saw the attack from an underwater observation point. “It looked like she was just totally caught off guard and looked like she was struggling.” 
She added: “I just felt horri­ble because she’s someone’s daughter, mother. I couldn’t stop crying.” 
The killer whale shows have been put on hold at SeaWorld’s three parks in Orlando, San Antonio and San Diego. Tompkins said they will not resume until trainers under­stand what happened to Brancheau. He also said train­ers will review safety proce­dures and change them as needed. 
He would not give details on what might be changed, but he said he does not expect visitors to the theme park to see much difference in the killer whale shows, in which trainers swim with the animals, ride on their backs and jump off of them. 
There is virtually no contact between visitors and the orcas at SeaWorld shows, said Fred Jacobs, a spokesman for the SeaWorld parks. But in the past, VIP guests occasionally were allowed to come down to the edge of the pool and touch the whales. That will no longer be permitted, Jacobs said. 
Because of Tilikum’s size and history of aggressive behavior, visitors were not allowed to get close to the whale, and trainers were not permitted to climb into the water with the animal. They were only allowed to work with him from a partially submerged deck. 
Tompkins defended SeaWorld’s use of a whale that had already been blamed in the deaths of two other people. 
“We didn’t ignore those inci­dents,” Tompkins said. “We work with him very, very care­fully. We did not get in the water with this animal like we do with other killer whales because we recognized his potential.” 
Brancheau’s older sister, Diane Gross, said the trainer would not have wanted any­thing done to the whale. “She loved the whales like her chil­dren. She loved all of them,” said Gross, of Schererville, Ind. “They all had personalities, good days and bad days.” 
In a profile in the Orlando Sentinel in 2006, Brancheau acknowledged the dangers, saying: “You can’t put yourself in the water unless you trust them and they trust you.” 
One of SeaWorld’s most popu­lar shows — about a child who wants to grow up to be a killer whale trainer — could have been inspired by Brancheau herself. 
A trip to SeaWorld at age 9 instilled a desire in her to work with marine animals. She attended the University of South Carolina and majored in psychology, but got a job at a New Jersey park after gradua­tion, working with dolphins and sea lions. She was hired at SeaWorld in Orlando in 1994. 
Tilikum was one of three orcas blamed for killing a trainer in 1991 after the woman lost her balance and fell into a pool at a Sealand theme park near Victoria, British Columbia. 
In 1999, the body of a naked man was found draped over Tilikum at SeaWorld in Orlando. Officials said the man had stayed in the park after closing and apparently fell into the whale tank. An autopsy found he died of hypothermia. Officials also said it appeared Tilikum bit the man. 
A few months after the 1991 death in Canada, SeaWorld asked the National Marine Fisheries Service for permis­sion to “import and temporarily house” Tilikum in Orlando, according to documents obtained by The Associated Press. 
In a 1992 letter, the federal agency said SeaWorld wanted to move Tilikum to Orlando “for the purpose of providing medical treatment and care that is otherwise unavailable in Canada at this time.” 
The letter did not mention the whale’s role in the deadly attack. But the agency criti­cized the theme parks, saying “prudent and precautionary steps necessary for the health and welfare of Tilikum were not taken by Sealand or SeaWorld.” 
Animal parks are inspected at least once a year by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to make sure the animals are being treated humanely and getting proper nutrition and veterinary care. Online records for the three SeaWorld parks going back to 2007 show only minor violations, such as paper feeding trays accidentally dropped into an exhibit. 



Panel finds Rangel guilty 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Rep. Charles Rangel, the most powerful tax-writing lawmak­er in Congress and a 40-year veteran of Capitol Hill, acknowledged Thursday that an ethics panel has accused him of accepting corporate money for Caribbean trips in violation of House rules. 
The panel exonerated five 
other members of the Congressional Black Caucus who also were on the 2007 and 2008 trips to Antigua and St. Martin but told them they will have to pay for the trips. 
The findings are certain to raise questions of whether Rangel, a New York Democrat, can continue as Ways and Means Committee chairman in an election year. Democrats took over the House in 2006 on a campaign promise to “end a culture of corruption” in Congress that they blamed on 12 years of Republican rule. 
The ethics panel also ended another widespread investi­gation Thursday, saying if found no violations of House rules by six lawmakers who steered government money and projects and contracts to favored companies that had donated to their re-election campaigns. 
A copy of the letters and an accompanying report on them were obtained by The Associated Press. All six — four Democrats and two Republicans — are or were senior members of the House Appropriations Committee. 
The most prominent of the them was the late Rep. John Murtha, D-Pa., the former chairman of the defense appropriations subcommittee who died earlier this month. The other five lawmakers exonerated in that probe are Reps. Norman Dicks, D-Wash.; Marcy Kaptur, D-Ohio; Peter Visclosky, D-Ind., Todd Tiahrt, R-Kan. and C.W. “Bill” Young, R-Fla. 
In the Rangel case, the ethics committee’s report did not include any formal charges that could have brought him a more serious censure against the 79-year­old New York Democrat. However, it’s not the end of his ethics problems. 
The panel, formally the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct, is still inves­tigating Rangel’s use of offi­cial stationery to raise money for a college center to be named after him and incom­plete financial disclosures that omitted some income and assets, including rent he 
receive d  f r o m  a  v acati o n  
h o me  i n  the  D o mi n ica n  
Republic.  

Rangel’s staff knew that corporate money paid for the Caribbean trips, the commit­tee said, but it could not determine whether Rangel’s aides told him about it. 
Those who did not know about the corporate financ­ing, according to the commit­tee, were Reps. Bennie Thompson of Mississippi, Yvette Clarke of New York, Donald Payne of New Jersey, Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick of Michigan and Donna Christensen, the nonvoting delegate from the Virgin Islands. 
“Common sense dictates that members of Congress should not be held responsi­ble for what could be the wrongdoing or mistakes or errors of staff unless there’s reason to believe that mem­ber knew or should have known, and there is nothing in the record to indicate the latter,” Rangel said at a hasti­ly called evening news con­ference Thursday evening. 
Who chairs the Ways and Means Committee is especial­ly important this year, when Democrats are trying to over­haul the nation’s health care system and Congress has to decide what to do about bil­lions of dollars in tax cuts Americans at every income have enjoyed for a decade but are due to expire in December. 
Less than two hours before the ethics panel’s findings were first reported by the AP, Rangel had attended President Barack Obama’s daylong summit on health care. The government already covers about half Americans’ health care costs, mostly through programs that 
ori g ina t ed  in  or  came  
through  the  c o mmi t tee  
Rangel chairs.  

Democrats want to extend the tax cuts for middle-and low-income families, includ­ing an expanded child tax credit, while raising taxes on families making more than $250,000. They would allow the top income tax rate to rise from 35 percent to 39.6 percent, the level it was before former President George W. Bush’s tax cuts. 
Rangel was first elected to the House in 1970 from New York’s Harlem district, defeating Adam Clayton Powell Jr., at the time the most prominent black politi­cian in the country. 


NYC mother accussed of killing autistic son 
face up on the bed. obsession with her inability cure, for a miracle,” said “Eye Contact” examines the 
Associated Press 
Hundreds of prescription to help the child she loved. Conant. relationship between a 
NEW YORK — Gigi Jordan pills were strewn around It literally drove her crazy,” Jordan was convinced two mother and an autistic son. quit a high-powered job as the bedroom, police said. said Conant, who couldn’t years ago that members of a “You are driven to the a pharmaceutical company In what was meant to be a imagine her ever harming devil-worshipping cult were loneliest place on earth, executive and abandoned suicide note, Jordan sug -the child. She was “bril -violently abusing the boy. facing what feels like a fail-her social life to devote all gested she was driven by liant,” Conant said, going to She sought out a Wyoming ure with a child you haven’t her time to her severely mercy: Jude was “in con -“incredible ends,” studying sex-crimes investigator she saved — and you ’ve autistic son. stant pain, ” she wrote. “I the latest medical literature saw on television, Flint believed with all your heart 
For most of his tortured hope Jude is in a better and consulting with leading Waters, and brought the that if you worked hard life, Jude Michael Mirra place. ” A person familiar experts. child to see him — even enough you could, ” said repeatedly banged his head with the investigation who That obsession with find-though Wyoming authorities McGovern. on the floor, screaming and wasn’t authorized to release ing a cure even drove her to had discouraged her visit. Conant, who said he never unable to speak, writhing in the note publicly spoke of it Children ’s Memorial Cheyenne police detective thought Jordan could hurt pain. His mother, trained as to The Associated Press on Hospital in Chicago, where Tom Hood said authorities Jude, believes her obsession a nurse, went to exhaustive condition of anonymity. Jude underwent a rare placed her in emergency was “a control issue, the lengths to help the 8-year-As an ambulance rushed umbilical cord blood stem-detention there for a psy -feeling that she would be old, desperate for a cure. her to an emergency room, cell transplant on April 30, chiatric evaluation “to make the one to save that child, 
But nothing worked. Her she asked for an attorney. 2007. It didn’t work. Jude’s sure she was not a danger almost a salvation quest.” only child is dead now — by From the jail ward of a pain and screams persisted. to her son, herself or other He said he met Jordan 15 her own hands, according to Queens hospital, Jordan About one in 110 U.S. people. ” When she was years ago through pharma­police. was arraigned via video link children have autism, a determined to be no threat, ceutical industry mogul 
After years of struggling on Feb. 16 on charges of spectrum of neurological Hood said, she was reunited Raymond A. Mirra Jr., man­
— with his autism and her second-degree murder. She disorders that affect com -with her son. aging member of the RAM inability to help him — Gigi pleaded not guilty. munication and social inter-Autistic children often Capital Group and other Jordan gave up. To those Her attorney, Gerald action. While there are no “cannot express pain or dis-health care ventures. who knew her, she was a Shargel, told the court there medications that can cure comfort through speech, ” Jordan and Mirra, whom loving, overprotective single was a “very viable psychi-autism, studies show that says Dr. Timothy Buie, an she married in 1998, mother who snapped under atric defense” for Jordan, early identification and autism expert at Harvard amassed a fortune running incredible strain. To prose-saying she shouldn’t be held intervention can improve Medical School who works their companies. cutors, she was a killer. criminally responsible for long-term outcomes. at Boston’s Massachusetts While still married to 
Jordan, 49, twice-divorced her son’s death because of With her wealth, Jordan General Hospital for Mirra, Jordan became preg­and living in New York, her mental state. He could have hired expert Children. Many suffer a sen-nant by Tzekov, a brought her only child to declined to elaborate. care for the boy but “we sory processing disorder, Bulgarian -born yoga the Peninsula Hotel on “This is one of the saddest had no nannies, ” Jude ’s Buie said, so that even an instructor in Santa Barbara, Manhattan ’s Fifth Avenue cases I’ve ever seen, ” father, Emil Tzekov, told the earache or an upset stom-Calif. Mirra adopted the on Feb. 3. She paid cash for Shargel said outside the New York Daily News. “She ach “is profoundly magni-baby, promising him finan­two nights in a $2,300 -a-courthouse. could afford them, but she fied. ” They communicate cial security and in return, night suite. After posting a Assistant District Attorney wanted to do everything distress by screaming, Tzekov signed away custody “Do Not Disturb ” sign on Kerry O’Connell argued that herself. She made sure all head-banging, even harm-rights. the door, she double-locked Jude’s death “was complete-his food was perfect, that ing themselves, he said. Jordan divorced Mirra in it and jammed it with a ly premeditated.” She cited he was sleeping so many “Some people can’t stand November 2001, according chair. Jordan’s “articulate” writ-hours. Everything.” a child who cries for an to public records in Nevada. 
Inside, prosecutors say ten explanation for what At one point, she consid-hour, ” said Conant. “Can Six days later, she married she fed Jude a fatal over-she did, a document which ered sending him to a you imagine living with a Tzekov. A photo from that dose of various prescription “took her obviously a long school for autistic children child who’s been screaming time shows a happy three-drugs and took pills herself. time.” in California. for eight years?” some, with a curly-haired, Two days later, police alert-A dermatologist and long-Instead, Jordan moved, Some parents of autistic smiling Jude sitting ed by a concerned relative time friend, Dr. Marcus Conant said. children who try everything between his smiling mother burst in and found her Conant, said Jordan confid-“Perhaps she was overpro-and still fail to improve and beaming, handsome semiconscious on the floor, ed in him as she tried des-tective,” he added, not fully their child’s condition reach father. “babbling incoherently, ” perately to fight Jude ’s entrusting her son to any-a breaking point, said But in 2006, Jordan and with a faint pulse. Her son autism. one. Cammie McGovern, an Tzekov divorced, and by lay dead in his pajamas, Her life became “an “She was looking for a Amherst, Mass., author with 2007, she forbade him from 
a 13-year-old autistic son. seeing Jude. 
Some take their distress to Tzekov’s next contact with 
the extreme, she said, end-his son was in a Manhattan 
ing their child ’s life and morgue. 
taking their own. When he heard about his 
That was Jordan ’s goal, death, Tzekov was stunned. 
police said. “I cannot understand,” he 
“It ’s so lonely to love a told the News, his eyes child who is unable to welling with tears. “Gigi express that back, ” said was a loving mother. She McGovern, whose novel was not a killer.” 


The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 10 Friday, February 26, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
The Independent, Daily Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Joseph McMahon Laura Myers Molly Madden Allan Joseph Carly Landon Matthew Robison Graphics Viewpoint Jaclyn Espinoza Michelle Maitz Scene Adriana Pratt 



Revisions to du Lac will benefit student body 
According to du Lac, the Notre Dame student handbook, the punishment for breaking parietals can range from receiving a disciplinary conference to expulsion from the University. 
Yet Associate Vice President for Residence Life Bill Kirk said expulsion is rarely used as punishment for a parietals violation. 
“There are several sanctions … listed in du Lac that do not accurately reflect the way that such violations of rules have been addressed in the past,” Kirk said, referencing expulsion as the punishment for breaking parietals as one of these sanctions. 
Changing the punishment for a parietals viola­tion is one area the University is looking at in the du Lac revision process — a task the University has undertaken to make sure the policies in du Lac are up-to-date with student needs. Many of the statements under examination are related to the University’s alcohol and disciplinary policies. 
Revising du Lac is long overdue, as the parietals example shows that some policies are out of date and inconsistently enforced. 
Kirk said it is likely the wording on the parietals violation pun­ishment will change to more accurately reflect the Office of Residence Life and Housing’s (ORLH) course of action when stu­dents are caught. 
This is an important change. 
Making du Lac more accurate and accessible to students is cru­cial, as many disciplinary policies described in du Lac are vague and leave room for discrepancies in enforcing University rules. 
The University has reached out to student government for input in the du Lac revision process, and the administration should seriously consider implementing some of student government’s suggestions. 

In particular, Student Senate recently passed a resolution to instate a medical amnesty policy in du Lac that would offer a stu­dent immunity from punishment if helping another student whose health or safety is at risk. 
A medical amnesty policy would be a valuable addition to the handbook because it offers students the commitment that the University values their safety as its first priori­ty. 
Additionally, student government is recommending that first-time offenses be handled in dorm whenever possible. This would give rectors discretion in handing out punishments, and a one-time offense would not go on a student’s permanent record. Rectors know the 
student in a personal way that is impossible for the ORLH staff, putting them in a better position to hand out punishments and offer the student any guidance they may need. 
The University has taken the initiative in revising du Lac, a nec­essary step that shows students that the faculty and staff are looking to create the best system possible to manage the student body. The administration has indicated they want student input, and it should put into practice several of the suggestions put forth by the student body through student government. 
Revisions to the punishment for parietals violation and an addi­tion of a medical amnesty policy, among other changes, will bene­fit the student body by making du Lac more accessible, fair and consistent. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Sexual Assault Awareness Week 
We are the students, faculty and admin­istrators who serve on the University’s Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention (CSAP). Committed to eliminating sexual violence at Notre Dame, CSAP brings together men and women from across our campus to form a network of awareness, care, and support. 
Our purpose is two-fold: 
1) to lead and coordinate campus educa­tion and prevention efforts. 
2) to ensure the University has appropri­ate people and services in place to provide confidential, professional and compassion­ate assistance to those who have been vic­timized. For more information about CSAP, please visit csap@nd.edu. 
CSAP’s work is guided always by the University’s over-arching commitment to the “formation of an authentic human community graced by the Spirit of Christ.” 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Clearly sexual violence has no place in such a community. As our campus marks Sexual Assault Awareness Week, we invite you to join us in our efforts to address these important issues. Whether or not we have been personally affected by sexual violence, each of us has a part to play in creating a campus climate that is safe and respectful, and that honors the human dignity of each individual. 
Ann Firth William Kirk Ava Preacher Cathy Pieronek John Duman Mandy Lewis Tim Latham Miriam Olsen Patrick Tighe Nella McOsker Cynthia Weber Zach Miller Jeff Shoup Susan Steibe-Pasalich Chris Nowak Heather Rakoczy Russell Elizabeth Moriarty Annie Envall Charmelle Green Phil Johnson Keri Kei Shibata Kathy Brannock Rev. John Conley, CSC Amy de la Torre Slandah Diejuste Cathe DeCleene 
Members of the Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention Feb. 25 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“We know what we are, but know not what we may be.” 
William Shakespeare British dramatist and poet 
The Observer 




Viewpoint
Friday, February 26, 2010 page 11 
Something Obama is not 
A year into Barack Obama’s presi­dency, critics continually attempt to define him as a liberal out-of-control, tax-hiking, big-government, deficit-spending Socialist. Throughout the year, conservative commentator Glenn Beck called the president a racist. Last week, conser­vative entertainer Rush Limbaugh characterized health care initia­tives as repara-

Gary Caruso 
tions, invoking coded racist lan-Capitol guage that appeals Comments to certain haters in our American society. The Fox net­work cable programs are peppered with insinuations and outright charges that Obama is a socialist whose goal is to end our free market way of life as we know it. Yet, upon closer examina­tion, the president has a more meas­ured and reasoned style of governing than his senate voting record. 
While this column was written while the president hosted his six-hour transparent health care summit with congressional leaders, astute political observers could have predicted Obama’s approach. The Obama style of governing is not liberal. In fact, the Liberal wing of the Democratic Party, Obama’s core support against Hillary Clinton in the 2008 presidential pri­mary season, remains disappointed in Obama’s increase of troops in Afghanistan. They are disgruntled because the Guantanamo Bay prison facility has yet to be closed. They seethe at Obama’s casualness regard­ing the health care public option, along with his unyielding reach for bipartisan support rather than to steamroll the legislation like George 
W. Bush and a Republican controlled congress did for their legislative agen­da. 
Obama’s call for deficit reduction, now hypocritically and disingenuously opposed by seven Republican champi­ons and cosponsors in the senate who until Obama’s election had made deficit reduction a Republican mantra, is not traditionally a liberal initiative. Regardless of how we define attacks on our homeland — terrorism or crim­inal violations — Obama’s policy has resulted in capturing more high-level operatives in a more compressed timeline in Afghanistan than Bush pol­icy. Also in one year, Obama policy matches Bush policy in arresting those bent on attacking our homeland as well as obtaining actionable intelli­gence from those criminals, albeit ille­gal enhanced interrogation tech­niques. War and security have never been traditionally liberal strengths either — until Obama. 
In 1994, the Public Broadcasting System aired an American Experience program, a five hour biographical doc­umentary examining Franklin D. Roosevelt’s life. Last week’s re-airing eerily accentuated the parallels and similarities between conditions as FDR and Obama entered office, along with how similar the nation’s mood stood at the end of both men’s first year in office. While FDR’s first hundred days were sweepingly unprecedented in dramatically addressing the Great 
A Heavenly note on why the Notre Dame family matters 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A random act of kindness 
We’ve all seen the quote on the wall of the upstairs of South Bend’s finest eatery, Sidedoor Deli: “Carry out a random act of kindness, with no expectation of reward, safe in the knowl­edge that one day someone might do the same for you.” Princess Diana really threw out some words to live by. But last night, someone per­formed a random act of kindness for me and I think it deserves some credit. 
After a late night snack at Nick’s Patio, my roommates and I were making the hop, skip and a jump back to our apartment at Clover Ridge. It was cold (it is South Bend in February) but it was manageable. Just as we were jaywalking into the Martin’s parking lot, a mini van cruised up behind us with a window rolled down. It was one of Michiana’s finest cab drivers, Dudley, who hollered out the win­dow, “Girls, you look cold, how about a free ride home?” 
We gladly accepted the 200-yard drive back to our toasty abode and Dudley drove off into the night. I wanted to take a hot second to thank him for the ride. I hope that one day I can do what Lady Diana suggested and return the favor. I’m grateful for the selfless acts of friends and strangers; It makes me pretty con­fident that our world is a great place. 
Keep the chain going! Hold the door open for the lady behind you at Studebagels, let your professor know how much he means to you, leave a piece of chocolate by your neighbors door. Do it not for the reward, but because some day you may be freezing cold and walk­ing home and someone might do the same for you. 
Clare Orfanos 
junior Saint Mary’s Collegel Feb. 25 
As a Notre Dame alumnus, it doesn’t take long to learn how much the Notre Dame family means. Some of us were blessed to have had friendships and mentors of fac­ulty members who had a heavy presence in our lives for four years at the Golden Dome. One of those friends and mentors to me and many other Notre Dame students was Dr. Gail Walton, Director of Music at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
On Wednesday, Gail’s battle with illness ended and she joined our Notre Dame family in heaven. I share with you Gail’s impact on my life as a reminder of why the Notre Dame family matters. 
I came to Notre Dame raised on Christian values but as a non-Catholic. When I auditioned for choir my freshman year in 2000, I wasn’t sure I would feel comfortable in a choir that sang at masses weekly. Gail Walton and Andrew McShane selected me to sing for the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir and I did so for four years. 
Gail had a profound influence on my life beyond music. Singing at the mass at the Basilica weekly, I was exposed to the Catholic faith. Gail provided an extraordinary example to me of what it meant to be a faithful Catholic through the respect she trained us to have for our service in the liturgy and the way she personally conducted her­self with class. I was baptized after graduating from Notre Dame during my first year of law school. I was touched by a stunning bouquet of flowers sent to me by Gail Walton and Andrew McShane on that special day of my entrance into the Catholic Church. 
Gail Walton gave so much more to us students at Notre Dame than training and excellence in music. She brought us closer to God and made us better people. The Notre Dame family matters because of people like Dr. Gail Walton who helped us grow beyond our years at Notre Dame. 
Thank you Gail, we love you and will miss your pres­ence terribly in the Notre Dame community. 
Laura Hoffman 
alumnus Class of ‘04 Feb. 25 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Depression, Americans grumbled by year’s end that change had not come as quickly as they expected. Unemployment was still at record lev­els despite millions returning to work. The documentary included a 1934 snippet of the Republican National Committee Chairman advocating “less taxes, smaller government and an end to the wasteful government deficit spending that is not creating jobs.” Yet, despite an impatient American public and Republican calls for less government a quarter of the way through his first term, the next scene quoted people explaining why they overwhelmingly voted for FDR’s first reelection bid. 
Something Obama lacks is FDR’s dis­armingly robust and warmly infectious laugh. Obama’s calm professorial demeanor is an asset in itself, but at times can be so cool that he does not always convey the FDR grandfatherly assurance or joviality. Both men could effectively deliver these FDR lines, “It was this administration which saved the system of private profit and free enterprise after it had been dragged to the brink of ruin. The only limit to our realization of tomorrow will be our doubts of today. Let us move for­ward with strong and active faith…the great public is interested more in gov­ernment than in politics... [Party labels do not matter as long as politi­cians do] the big job that their times demanded to be done.” 
But imagine Obama, a year into his presidency, saying this FDR quote on the need to sacrifice principles for higher purposes, “If I come out for the anti-lynching bill now, [the Southern Democrats] will block every bill I ask Congress to pass to keep America from collapsing.” This practical approach is one of the typically hard choices all presidents must weigh. Addressing health care reform now is such a choice Obama believes out­weighs marching in step with liberals in support of the health care public option, especially if costs and deficits can be reduced anyway. For as FDR further remarked, “Above all, try something…When you get to the end of your rope, tie a knot and hang on.” 
History is least objective when we sit square in the middle as events unfold. With historical FDR/Obama similari­ties also come totally unique and unrelated circumstances. Scholars will evaluate and judge well after the fact. Few remain in Washington who can describe the Kennedy presidency’s Camelot aura. Years from now, maybe Obama’s first year will rival the JFK aura or FDR impact — historians have yet to comment. Regardless, FDR summed up political pitfalls best when he said, “I think we consider too much the good luck of the early bird and not enough the bad luck of the early worm.” 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The Observer 





Scene
page 12 Friday February 26, 2010 

By ALEX KILPATRICK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
British soul sweetheart Corinne Bailey Rae blew us all away with her 2006 summery sin­gle, “Put Your Records On,” off her self-titled debut album, a jazzy take on the pop R&B genre. Now, after a long hiatus, her sophomore album, “The Sea,” has a more mature sound, with less pop and more soul. 
Following the commercial and critical success of her debut album, Rae began work on songs for her second musical endeavor in late 2007. But she was forced to take a tragic break from her music after her husband, Scottish saxo­phonist Jason Rae, died of an accidental over­dose in March 2008. 
After a period of grief and isolation, Rae revisited material for “The Sea” in 2009, when she began album recording sessions at Limefield Studios in Manchester. 
According to an interview with Rae in the UK’s Observer, she implemented a live band in the album’s recording, something that was not done on her debut LP. 
“On the first album, it was me and a producer in a basement going through hundreds of snare drum sounds to find the right one,” Rae said. “With a live band, you can stretch out more and try new things out without feeling you’re having to undo this meticulously built-up track.” 
“The Sea” comprises songs both written before and after her husband’s death, and many of the songs carry personal themes for Rae. For example, opener “Are You Here” is about pure, irresolvable emotion and that’s clear from the song’s first line, “He’s a real live wire,” and the quiet carefully plucked guitar chords that Rae plays along with dream-like vocals. 
Lead single “I’d Do It All Again” has a more jazzy sound and portrays the influences of clas­sic R&B musicians including Curtis Mayfield, Sly & the Family Stone, Nina Simone and Leonard Cohen, to whom she was listening at the time of recording. The song was written almost immediately after an argument with Jason and describes commitment to a relation­ship even during difficult moments, Rae said. 
“Almost as he was leaving the room, I just sat down and wrote it,” she told the UK’s Observer. “It’s just about how I felt about him at that time. Even right in the middle of the worst times, I remember thinking that I would choose this exact life again, that I would do it all again.” 

Personal favorite “Feels Like The First Time” gives insight into the emotional influence of Jason’s death on Rae with the lyrics, “I could pretend that I was okay / I wind around the parties, drink in hand / I could pretend that you went away / That I had changed and I no longer hear the band.” 
“Blackest Lily” is sprinkled with faint modern rock and electronic influences, while “Closer” has more of that rhythm and bluesy feel that we’ve all come to know and love from Rae. “Love’s On Its Way” is also a softer jazzier piece but climaxes with a loud chorus towards the end. 
The catchiest tune on the album, “Paris Nights / New York Mornings” is an upbeat throwback to Corinne’s summery jazzy pop days, while “Paper Dolls” is a somewhat out-of­place rock song with lyrics, “All my life all my life / I said it’s not right / Nobody told me I could do something / Nobody told me I could be something.” 
Overall, “The Sea” is not perfect but it is a solid effort and has a much more mature sound than Rae’s debut album. The dichotomy between the sense of commitment in the songs written before Jason Rae’s death and the deep sense of loss in the songs written after gives the album more emotional depth than most of today’s albums. 
Contact Alex Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 



By JORDAN GAMBLE 
Associate Scene Editor 
Hills are hard to come by in South Bend, and there certainly aren’t any local sliding centers like the one in Whistler, British Columbia. So how is Farley Hall host­ing a bobsled race for its signature event this year? 
By taking over the north dome of the JACC and going for a flatter course — the hockey rink, to be specific. From 7 to 10 p.m., teams will compete in a bracket tournament. The rules? Four team members drag a sled holding the fifth person down the length of the ice rink and back again. For $25, students can either reg­ister their five-person teams at studentshop.nd.edu or at the event itself. 
The hall council said its inspiration was “Cool Runnings,” a film about the Jamaican bobsled team at the 1988 Winter Olympics. 
With the event coming at the tail end of the 2010 Olympic Games in Vancouver, the Fiasco’s organizers are hoping to capitalize on the current interest in icy sports. 
“We liked the idea of being on ice, because no other dorm really does that,” said junior Jess Shaffer, Farley Hall president and current Observer Scene Editor. 
The “bobsled” race is just one part of the Fiasco. 
Other attractions include carnival food, various carni­val-type games and a raffle. The prizes include a Nintendo Wii and books signed by University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh — Farley’s first rec­tor in 1942 — and Farley’s first female rector, Sister Jean Lenz. 
Each of Farley Hall’s floors also assembled gift bas­kets for the raffle. At least one basket will include an iPod, while others have themes like “Notre Dame Fan’s Starter Kit,” which is filled with various items from the bookstore. 
Like all dorm signature events, the Farley Fiasco raises money for charity. Senior Stacey Gill, one of Farley’s resident assistants, helped coordinate the partnership with First Book, a literacy organization that provides age-appropriate reading for underprivi­leged children. First Book can donate a book to a school for only $2. By that math, each bobsled team can effectively donate 12-1/2 books with their $25 entry fee. 
“I’m just excited because $2 is such a small dona­tion,” Gill said. “It’s tangible in that it gets a brand-new book.” 
First Book has always had close ties with auditing and tax firm KPMG, where Gill will be working next year. The company wanted to sponsor an event on campus, and Gill directed their attention to Farley Hall’s winter carnival idea. 
“KPMG seems really excited about having a long relationship with Farley, too,” Gill said. 
The event has been in the works for nearly two years, and Farley’s hall council is excited to finally get it off the ground. Enthusiastic residents have volun­teered their time to supervise the event or publicize it in the dining halls, helping them along. Seventy-five residents helped tie-dye the t-shirts (to go along with the “Cool Runnings” theme) that will be on sale for $5 at the event. 
Participation and hall spirit have long been a tradi­tion in Farley Hall, from hallway decorating contests to creative costumes at pep rallies. 
“We have a pretty large hall council. From our fresh­men reps to senior commissioners, we’re super involved. Just the fact that it’s a ‘come-one-come-all’ atmosphere helps, too,” said hall council member Kate Hunger, a junior. 
Come one, come all, to the first annual Farley Fiasco in the North dome of the JACC. The races and activi­ties start at 7 p.m. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
JACLYN ESPINOZA | Observer Graphic 



Film screening gives 2010 Bouts more punch 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Every time one of the 188 box­ers in this year’s Bengal Bouts throws a punch, there is an impact. 
Bengal Bouts senior co-presi­dents Chris Cugliari and Pat Burns and Bouts’ five senior cap­tains have spent countless hours teaching others the best ways to make an impact, both in and out of the ring. 
This aspect of their jobs became a little easier after the November on-campus debut of “Strong Bodies Fight,” a docu­mentary produced by Bengal Bouts alums Mark Weber and Pat Ryan and Notre Dame film professor Bill Donaruma. 

The film documents the history of the Bengal Bouts and its part­nership with the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. It con­tains footage of the Bengali peo­ple and countryside shot when Weber, Ryan and three others visited the country in May 2008. 
The 2010 Bengal Bouts were the first to benefit from the addi­tional exposure. 
“We’ve got a great relationship with the current captains and the guys who are fighting now,” said Ryan. “They’ve had the opportu­nity to see it and from what we’ve been hearing from them, guys have been telling us how much of an inspiration it has been, especially in preparing for the fights. It’s great to see what the big picture is as they get ready for the fights. It’s really helpful and encouraging for them.” 
“Strong Bodies Fight: Rough Cut” showed three screenings at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Nov. 6 and 7. The pro­ducers collected feedback from the audiences in order to make changes and come out with a final version. 
“The reaction was fantastic,” Ryan said. “We had three show­ings on that weekend and we had three standing ovations … People enjoy hearing the story. It’s what we hoped from the out­set. The Bengal Bouts is such a unique story and people got to see that in a really dynamic way.” 
This year’s captains arranged a screening of the movie for the boxers prior to the first night of fights, Feb. 13. 
“Showing the movie to every­one involved in the program was great because it really put a face to the missions,” Cugliari said. “It really established that we do have a personal relationship with these missions and the people that we’re helping. We’re not just throwing money at a problem; we have a tangible, personal relationship.” 
Senior captain John Maier and junior Bobby Powers, two of the four students to go on Notre Dame’s first International Summer Service Learning Project in Bangladesh this sum­mer, emphasized the importance of experiencing the mission. 
“It’s relaying a personal experi­ence,” Maier said. “In all honesty, freshman, sophomore year, box­ing was more on the radar. 
“We’ve seen people become more enthusiastic during the tournament, going out and trying to get donations from people, tell people about this cause,” he said. “Now all of our boxers, they know what it’s about. 
“It’s just kind of been one con­
stant reminder 
throughout the 
You know you’re support­ing a good cause and  “All the captains yell ‘Shokti,’ which is Bengali for  tournament,” he added. “It’s obvi­ously going to be on the back of  
what’s going on, but … I didn’t even really know what the  strength, and then everyone else yells ‘Shahosh,’ which  everyone’s minds as you step into the ring.” But the movie’s  
motto  of  the  means courage in  reach  extended  
club meant, ‘strong bodies  Bengali.”  beyond the boxers themselves.  
fight so weak bodies may be nourished.’”  John Maier senior captain  “We saw an impact on the rest of the student  
Powers cred­ body,” senior co­ 
ited  the  film- president  Pat  

makers’ efforts as a driving force Burns said. “I went to a party behind the creation of the ISSLP. after the premiere and they were 
“It’s just an exponential taking donations for the missions growth,” he said. “The documen-just based on what they had seen tary came out, now we have four in the documentary.” guys a year going over for six Donaruma said the producers weeks. For eighty years we didn’t hope to finalize the film this sum-do anything really personal like mer and begin entering it into that, and now we’re going there film festivals, with the main focus for six weeks. That started with on the Sundance Film Festival. If the documentary.” chosen, “Strong Bodies Fight” 
The four boxers even began a would be a part of the 2011 pre­new tradition for the team. miere circuit, Ryan said. 
“This year we brought back From there, the impact of two words we would say [after Bengal Bouts can only grow. practice],” Maier said. “All the “It’s for the Notre Dame com-captains would yell ‘Shokti,’ munity and for the current and which is Bengali for strength, former boxers,” Ryan said. and then everyone else yells “We’re really excited to get them ‘Shahosh,’ which means courage something they’ll be proud of and in Bengali.” to share it with the whole world.” 
Cugliari said the movie has been very inspirational to this Contact Laura Myers at year’s fighters. lmyers2@nd.edu 

Motivation and patience drive Burns’ fourth trip to finals 
it. sibilities of teaching the novices

By BILL BRINK 
Burns played soccer and took time away from Burns’ 
Sports Writer 
baseball in high school and workout, but he said he found played Interhall football in the quick workouts to do at high 
Sometimes the “science” in fall of his freshman year, but intensity to save time. “sweet science” goes out the said he was out of shape when As a mechanical engineering window and chance takes over. he started Bouts. major taking 16 credits, Burns 
That’s what happened to Pat “I hadn’t really worked out said being co-president takes Burns in last year’s champi-after high school so it was sort good time management skills. onship bout against Benford of a perfect thing,” he said. He and Cugliari joked separate-Begay. Begay threw out his Burns said he liked the way ly about the juxtaposition of right shoulder in the first Bengal Bouts turned an individ-Cugliari’s 10-credit business round, relegating his right arm ual sport into a team effort, and course load and Burns’ 16 cred­to dead weight. But when he he found it funny that the box-its, and Burns said that as a started throwing his right later ers helped each other get better result Cugliari handles more of in the fight, he caught Burns off when they might face that same the administration issues while guard. person in the tournament. Burns focuses on training the 
“He kept coming over the top Dragging his sore body to prac-younger boxers. of my left hand with that right tice every day was tough, he When he finally does get in hand and that’s why I eventual-said, but as he got better it the ring after his duties and ly lost the fight,” Burns said. became easier. class work, his style reflects his 
Burns, a senior captain and “I’m sure there were times on personality — calm and level­co-president of the Bengal Fridays when I decided not to headed. Bouts, has made it to the final go in but as I kept going more “I try to keep control of the bout in each of the last three and more I got more and more fight, I don’t go out and brawl years but has not won a title. motivation to do it and get bet-with people,” he said. “If every-And he likes to remind himself ter,” he said. thing is slow and controlled I of that by watching DVDs of The first time he stepped in feel most comfortable.” each of his championship losses the ring gave him the biggest “I’ve seen it on numerous before he fights. adrenaline rush he’s ever felt, occasions where it would seem 
“I just watch it for the motiva-he said. The nerves disap-that Pat’s in a very close fight. tion, knowing that if you don’t peared, however, once he got It’s almost a battle going on,” come out with 100 percent, try-hit. Cugliari said. “And then all of a ing as hard as you can, going to “Get hit in the face once, and sudden Pat will throw one the final bell this is what could everything goes away and your punch and the fight’ll be over. happen,” Burns said. “I watch it body takes over,” he said. “My They stopped and they’ve gone with that kind of mindset.” first fight, it wasn’t pretty, it over to check his opponent and after a jab, then unleashed a finals Saturday. 
The Michigan City, Ind., was a brawl, but after that first his eyeball’s pointing one way flurry of punches that chased “It’ll be one of those things native’s path to three straight fight I knew it was something I or something like that.” Healy around the ring and where we’re messing around finals appearances began quiet-wanted to keep doing.” Something similar happened sealed the fight. with each other right up until ly. His sister Meredith attended After his sophomore year, Tuesday in the semifinals “I told my cornermen I had to we get in the ring,” he said, Notre Dame and competed in Bengal Bouts president Hunter against Jason Healy, which throw a billion punches and “and then after the fight it’ll be Baraka Bouts, then witnessed Land named him and senior Burns won with patience and that’s the only way I was going all over.” the Bengal Bouts spectacle. She Chris Cugliari to be junior cap-well-timed aggression. He wait-to win,” he said after the fight. recommended he try it when he tains, something Burns said he ed until the third round, when Burns faces John Tchoula, Contact Bill Brink at got here, and he took her up on was proud of. The new respon-he saw Healy drop his left hand one of his best friends, in the wbrink@nd.edu 


Co-president hopes to leave legacy from time in Bouts 
own expectations, making it to ing standpoint to be done with 

By JARED JEDICK 
the final round and being the primary purpose of devel-
Sports Writer 
named Freshman Boxer of the oping the fighters into better 
Year. boxers. You did not condition 
For co-president Chris “That is what really got me simply to condition, Cugliari Cugliari, the Bengal Bouts are hooked,” Cugliari said. “I found reasoned, but to improve your all about passion for boxing, a sport here at Notre Dame that performance in the ring. vision into the future and the I not only really enjoyed doing To bring these fresh new development of young men and training for, but it was ideas into the program, Cugliari beyond even their own expecta-something I picked up on pretty made it the mission of his cap­tions. Nothing is more satisfying quickly and was successful at.” tains to learn all they could to Cugliari than to watch a Hailing from Saint Ignatius about the sport of boxing. fighter change from a scared High School in Cleveland, “We just encouraged every-young freshman, full of doubts, Cugliari played football one to go out and learn as into a self-confident man ready throughout his high school much as possible, to bring it to face the challenges of life. career. Finding a sport that he back to the Bouts, and really 
“I have seen a lot of people could excel at became impor-share it with the entire pro-come down here in their first tant to the undersized Cugliari, gram,” Cugliari said. “A lot of couple days and be very nerv-who did not have the physical stuff may not take effect right ous, but I have never seen build to play football at the col-now, but hopefully in a couple someone step out of the ring at lege level. In boxing, Cugliari years their impact will be felt.” the end of the process without a was able to find his niche. Two boxing mentors shaped smile on his face,” Cugliari said. “I wanted something that Cugliari’s experience: friend 
The Bouts are about teaching, could fulfill my competitive and training partner Mike Lee and that is the common thread drive, something I could spend and personal trainer Paul which drives Cugliari in every-time on, and just compete here Scianna. thing he does for the program, at Notre Dame,” Cugliari said. Lee, a 2009 captain and from researching new tech-And compete he did, rising three-year champion who has niques and training methods to quickly through the ranks of since signed a professional box-passing on life lessons. the Bengal Bouts’ hierarchy, ing contract, provided Cugliari 
“You have 18-to 22-year-old becoming only one of two junior with an insight into what it yourself to something, you need people have taken it upon kids come in here, and some of captains last year, along with takes to be a great boxer. to find a reason to get out of themselves to really strive to them might have self-doubts, or current co-president Pat Burns. “I just think that Mike and I your dorm room everyday and better themselves.” things about themselves that Cugliari said he believed it was just share a great love for box-get active in society,” Cugliari If Cugliari could leave only they are just unsure about,” a great opportunity to get some ing, and so when I was able to said. one thing behind, it would be Cugliari said. “And they come leadership experience and to work out with him this summer, The other great influences in that he helped people succeed. down here and they have the learn how to teach boxing. I cannot thank him enough for his life are his brother Brian “I hope that my legacy would huge challenge of going As co-president this year, all he was able to expose me and sister Meghan. Cugliari be that there are a handful of through a rigorous training Cugliari made it his mission to to,” Cugliari said. defines his role as their older guys in the program right now program and stepping through push the Bouts to take a step up Scianna has been Cugliari’s brother as setting an example who will be able to look back a the ropes in front of hundreds in terms of the technical boxing personal boxing coach for sev-of responsibility and kindness few years from now and say to of people and putting it all on aspect. eral years, and Cugliari said for them to follow. themselves, ‘I’ve seen myself the line. And that says a lot “I really wanted us to step it that his secondhand effect on No greater example can be grow as a person, and I have about their growth and charac-up a notch in terms of what we the Bengal Bouts has been sub-found, he said, than in the seen myself overcome these ter development throughout the were teaching, how we were stantial. Bengal Bouts’ dedication to challenges, and I can thank process.” training,” he said. “Not to say But Cugliari said his greatest supporting the Holy Cross mis-someone like Chris Cugliari as 
Cugliari first got involved in that in the past it was bad, but influences in his life are his sion in Bangladesh. someone who showed me that I the Bouts when he heard about the sport had modernized a lot, family. His parents have always “This is not a fight between can overcome the boundaries in it from his cousin, Michael but I wanted the Bengal Bouts taught him to set goals in life two boxers, this is a fight my life,’” he said. Kane. Cugliari entered into the to take a step up.” and to make a difference. between two nations trying to program as a freshman in 2007 To achieve this goal, Cugliari “My father raised us with this end poverty,” Cugliari said. Contact Jared Jedick at and excelled beyond even his wanted everything from a train-idea that we need to dedicate “You can really see that these jjedick@nd.edu 



Ponzio’s experience about more than fights 
sion for the sport. Boxing is young fighter to realize the significance of the Bengal at [becoming a captain] as a By MICHAEL BLASCO something you can’t really scope of the Bouts’ mission. Bouts as a Notre Dame alum-goal,” Ponzio said. “When I Sports Writer half-ass,” Ponzio said. “You Crediting his own coaches nus. started boxing freshman have to be committed to it. and captains for teaching “When they came up to see year, I looked up at the cap-We know that some guys will him, Ponzio tries to instill a me fight, they got to chance tains and thought that it Nick Ponzio’s four years as train for five months and be sense of tradition and social to see the impact that we would be cool to get to that a boxer have taught him that in the ring for four and a mission in the boxers he now have,” Ponzio said. “They point. I think captains really what a fighter does outside half minutes, so you really leads. understood that give [the the ring matters a lot more have to look at the larger “Some people look at it as it ’s not just a Bengal Bouts] than what he does inside it. goal of our efforts here and just a boxing match you train boxing tourna-“It’s an experience a team atmos-The senior from Dallas, realize that the boxing is for five months for, but it’s ment.” like nothing else. phere. This Texas, made living that mes-only part of this event.” really so much more than Looking back gave me the 
When everyone is
sage his mission as a Bengal The finance major formerly that,” Ponzio said. “For a over his time as opportunity to Bouts captain. of Keenan Hall acknowledges program that’s been around a fighter and watching you and the lead people.” “I want to pass on a pas-that it was hard for him as a for 80 years, it ’s pretty captain for the lights are on you, it’s Ponzio said amazing to be a part of it, Bouts, Ponzio his journey 
pretty hard to
and see how much it’s grown cited his first from freshman in terms of what we do for fight as his emulate.” to senior cap-them [in Bangladesh]. Eighty f a v o r i t e tain in the years ago, we were donating moment. Like Bouts has 
Nick Ponzio 
just so that people over there most who tape changed him 
senior captain
could eat, and now we ’re up for the first and given him sending enough money over time, Ponzio a resiliency there to build up an infra-called it an experience with-that he didn’t know existed structure and build schools.” out compare. before. In the tradition of the 
Ponzio, who has reached “I don’t really remember Bengal Bouts alumni before the semifinals twice in his much of my first fight him, Ponzio will leave the four years as a fighter, said because the adrenaline was program with a strength he he felt an immediate connec-pumping so much, but it was never knew he had, earned tion with boxing as a fresh-an incredible feeling,” Ponzio in service to a mission to the man. said. “It’s an experience like people of Bangladesh. 
“I started originally playing nothing else. When everyone “ W h e n y o u g e t k n o c k e d Interhall football, and a cou-is watching you and the down and get beat up a little ple of the guys on the team lights are on you, it’s pretty bit, you come out of it better said I should check out box-hard to emulate.” and that’s the only way to get ing,” Ponzio said. “I immedi-With several years of fights better,” Ponzio said. “Maybe ately fell in love with it. I under his belt, Ponzio looked it can be hard from an out-absolutely love my time towards becoming a captain sider’s perspective to see the doing it. Even though it can as a new goal. Remembering parallels, but once you’ve be a daily grind, it’s a good the impact that his own cap-done it, you have the mental-thing. I’m really glad that tains had on his develop -ity that you can get back up I’m doing it.” ment, Ponzio hoped to teach from anything and be a bet-
While his mother was not the passion and importance ter person because of it.” thrilled with the idea of of the Bouts to younger fight-Ponzio fighting, his father ers. Contact Michael Blasco at understood the impact and “I’ve always kind of looked mblasco@nd.edu 


124 pounds 
Jack Lally vs. Steven Rivera 
STAFF PICKS 
Farmer: LALLY 
When Chris Cugliari says a fighter is advanced for their age, that means something, especially when he has sparred with said fighter. Lally’s left hand will 

According to Bouts co-likely catch the lighter Of the senior light ­president Chris Cugliari, Rivera off guard early, and weight, Bouts co-presi­“[Lally is] a tall left-hand-he’llholdontothatlead. dent Chris Cugliari ed freshman, very Myers: RIVERA said, “Rivera is small. advanced for a freshman. Hey Steven, I could give He’s very calm in the Very good technique with you 50 reasons ... why ring, and fights with solid power behind his left you’re going to win this good defense. He closes hand, with good range.” fight. the distance well.” 



147 pounds 
Kieran Bulger vs. Kevin Ortenzio 

STAFF PICKS 
Farmer: BULGER 
In the semifinals, Bulger showed a tremendous right hook. If he connects with Ortenzio’s chin more than once, Ortenzio may not fully recover for a 
Bulger, a senior, is a week or two. Ortenzio’s deliverance defensive fighter who Myers: BULGER of punches, especially shows great discipline. Bulger’s hometown is uppercuts, allows him to He uses his opponent’s Schaghticoke, N.Y., which I rack up points while aggressiveness against can neither locate nor pro-avoiding blows from his him, and utilizes a strong nounce. But anyone who is opponent. Look for him final round to leave his from there is probably to get out fast, and stay opponent hurting. tough and awesome. ahead throughout. 



151 pounds 
Tim Thayer vs. Bobby Powers 
STAFF PICKS 
Farmer: THAYER 
In a fight that cannot be over-hyped, two defending champions meet. The two have never been in the same weight class, and, after a tough fight, Thayer will pre-

Thayer is one of the vail for his third title. Last year Powers beat strongest fighters in the Myers: THAYER then-Bouts president Mark tournament and is now In every generation there Weber in the final. This looking for his third title in is a chosen one, destined to year in a class six pounds three years. If he claims it, fight the Powers of evil. The heavier, he’ll look to use his he will have his strong “Slayer” will deliver strong range to his advantage, right hand to thank, along punches and witty remarks and possibly end another with years of experience. on the way to victory. fight early. 
163 pounds 
Jordan Bucci vs. Matt Hopke 


STAFF PICKS 
Farmer: BUCCI 
If the housemates and former Alumni residents wait until Saturday to ease the title tension, expect Bucci’s experience and grittiness to top Hopke in 
Bucci looks to defend the most emotional fight This is Hopke’s first trip his title. The senior has of the night. past the semifinals. To been to the finals each of Myers: HOPKE earn the title he will need the past three years, and Both earn points for to rely on his timing and last year overcame the being proud Dawgs. Hopke quickness. Hopke’s best 
threat of a longer reach to gains the edge because his bet to upset Bucci is to claim his title. sister lives in Cavanaugh. start quickly. 
Staff picks by Sports Writers Douglas Farmer and Laura Myers 















173 pounds 
Alex Kissinger vs. Matthew Paletta 

STAFF PICKS 
Farmer: KISSINGER 
Kissinger is one of the best conditioned fighters in the tour­nament, and over the years it has been proven time and time again that in toss-up matches, the com ­
Kissinger brings an petitor in better Paletta bides his attacking mentality to shape will previal. time early in match-the ring and often Kissinger will look to es, and uses breaks drives his opponent to wear out Paletta, and between the rounds the ropes. He pushes by the end will sim-to recharge before his attacks relentlessly, ply blast his fellow charging at the start and aims to wear his senior against the of the second round, opponent out over a ropes. and throughout the long fight. Paletta’s Myers: PALETTA third round. Look out best bet is to force the He’s from Detroit. for the senior’s point with Kissinger, Consider this a pity strong, consistent taking control of the pick, especially if he is a punches late in the match early. sports fan. match. 

STAFF PICKS 
Farmer: DORAN 
Doran is a tough fighter, there is no way around that. Last year he put up a tough fight against Bouts legend Mike Lee, and this year Doran’s experience has made him a much Doran will test smarter fighter. Golab The “Warsaw War 

Golab early, feinting will be a test, but Doran Hammer” ousted senior 
and throwing the will wait for an open-captain Nick Ponzio in 
occasional punch. He ing, and then use his the semifinals, and now 
will be aggressive length to claim his first faces last year’s 175 lb. 
but controlled in the title. runner-up in Doran. 
middle part of the Myers: DORAN Golab should match up 
match and eventually Doran spends his well with Doran, as his 
his long arms should evenings raising money physical style could 
allow him to land for the University at the reduce Doran’s length 
punches from outside phone center. Someone advantage. Golab did 
Golab’s reach late in that noble can’t possi-leave himself open to 
the fight. bly lose. late shots from Ponzio. 


STAFF PICKS 
Farmer: BURROUGHS 
These two meet up in the final for the third time in three years. Once again, Burroughs’ massive size will be the difference. Each punch he throws has the potential to end the 
Will “at the Edge of fight, even his jabs Kevin “The Long Darkness” Burroughs is meant to keep the Beach Lumberjack” simply an imposing opponent honest. Crepeau is a heavy-physical specimen. His Burroughs should pre-handed southpaw, a big unique combination of pare for his third title. guy that uses a stiff height, weight and Myers: BURROUGHS right-handed jab to set quickness is a night-His nickname, “At up a left hook aimed at mare for the opposition. the Edge of Darkness,” the head of the other No one has put up a would be a great name fighter. He will need to decent contest for for a super-emo band land that punch early Burroughs so far, and it made up of teenagers and often to top will be a wonder if from suburban Burroughs for the first Crepeau does so. Minneapolis. time in three tries. 









Capsules by Chris Allen, Megan Finneran, Kaitlyn Murphy, Allan Joseph and Matt Robison Photos courtesy of Mike Bennett of Lighthouse Imaging 
Law student seeks third title to conclude challenge 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Outweighing most of his com­petition by about 20 pounds, one would think Will Burroughs would be able to stomach a punch or two as he pursues his third straight heavyweight championship. Not quite. 
“I hate getting it, absolutely hate it,” the third-year law stu­dent said. “It hurts … It’s also just the fact that you failed a lit­tle bit.” 
It did not take long for Burroughs to realize the comedic material he just gave his fellow captains, classmates and his competition. 
“That sounds really cocky, and I’m not trying to be cocky,” he said. “I’m going to get made fun of for that one.” 
Not many people would have the guts to give Burroughs grief. The former Division I varsity football player now weighs in at 253 pounds, standing 6-foot-2, and ended his semifinal bout 20 seconds into the first round. Yet despite his size advantage and proven potent punch, Burroughs still sees Bengal Bouts as a wel­come challenge. 
“It’s just a challenge … My first semester here at Notre Dame, it was a tough adjust­ment,” the 2005 Brown gradu­ate said. “I heard about [Bengal Bouts], and one of my class­mates did it when he was an undergrad. I asked him some questions, and got into it and after a few practices, I kind of got hooked.” 
Burroughs has always pur­sued challenges. After four years as left tackle at Brown, Burroughs served for Teach For America for two years as a high school biology teacher and foot­ball coach. He then opted to for­sake his pre-med degree and enroll in the Notre Dame Law School. 
Upon graduation, Burroughs will combine his two Irish pas­sions — law and Bouts — as he is already enlisted in the Judge Advocate General Student Program (JAG). 
The fitness aspect of the mili­tary should not phase Burroughs, at least not as much as his first day of Bouts practice did. 
“The first day the shocking thing is you don’t know what’s going on,” Burroughs said. “You’re thinking boxing — you’re in the gym, doing some jump rope. You warm up in the offseason with something like 500 jumping jacks, and then they say let’s go for a run.” 
Weighing 293 pounds in his heyday at Brown, Burroughs had done some running to stay conditioned, but nothing like what he was in store for at that point. 
“You think you’re going to go run around the parking lot to loosen up the legs, but then 30 minutes later when you’re still running, you realize these guys take it seriously,” he said. 
Three years later, Burroughs is one of “these guys,” an honor not lost on him in the least. 
“Some of these captains eat, sleep and live Notre Dame Boxing,” Burroughs said. “For me, as the older law student, to get that recognition, it meant a lot.” 
And as the older law student, Burroughs has been amazed by how willing Notre Dame stu­dents are to embrace chal­lenges. 
“Every day I am amazed at what a Notre Dame student can do. You’ll hear about someone studying for an engineering exam, but they are fighting their semifinal fight that night as well,” he said. “It’s a large num­ber of undergrads who want to get hit in the face.” 
That willingness, not his older age, is what distinguishes Burroughs from the undergrad boxers. While many boxers learn to accept the inevitability of taking a few punches, Burroughs cannot fathom such an admission. 
“Why? Why accept it?” Burroughs said, sounding legiti­mately baffled. “Every time you get hit you know you did some­thing wrong.” 
Entering his championship bout, Burroughs needs to ready for a few punches. He faced Kevin Crepeau in the title fight last year, and ended the night with a black eye. 
But in the end, even the offen­sive lineman who dreads getting hit will admit that parts of fight night make it worthwhile. 
“Walking out has got to be one of the coolest feelings,” Burroughs said. “Knowing your friends and family are there. Walking out, with the robe, it’s all on you, and that’s kind of a cool thing. That’s the challenge.” 
Burroughs will get to face that challenge once more Saturday night. He’ll most likely get hit a few more times as well, and he could win his third heavyweight championship, in only three years. 

And then, on to the next chal­lenge. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Hardest hits have taught undefeated Thayer the most 
has taken his lumps. to fight,” Thayer said. continued training throughout and there was nothing in my 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
“My first time sparring I went The training was grueling at the spring with a mentor he way,” Thayer said. 
Associate Sports Editor 
against a kid who knew what first, but the bonds built met in the program, Fr. Brian Now a veteran, Thayer he was doing, and you don’t see through hard work and painful Daley, who began working with defended his title in 2009, 
For a fighter who is a perfect every punch you could see training helped Thayer through the sophomore as he learned defeating then-senior Matt 10-0 in three years of Bengal before you get in there,” Thayer the process in his first year. the sport. Posluszny by unanimous deci-Bouts, senior captain Tim said. “He knew how to throw an “After the first week you “His love for the sport was sion in the 150-pound division. Thayer has taken some hard overhand right, and just almost completely break your and is electric, and something Whether or not Thayer wins punches in his career. clocked me a couple times. It’s body down with how hard you he passed on to me,” Thayer his third championship 
The Lake Placid, N.Y., native the hardest I’ve ever been hit, push yourself. You keep going said. “We began working Saturday, the boxing program will be looking to win his third and it was a wake-up call there because everyone around you is together quite a has given him straight tournament title was a lot to learn.” doing the same thing, the whole bit and he tuned a sport he Saturday against junior Bobby Thayer began his Bouts brotherhood thing really pushes me physically “My frst fght only loves and Powers, and has used his power career as a sophomore, attract-you past where you think you and psychologi-mentor for 
lasted 23 seconds. I 
to put a quick end to many ed to the sport as a former can go,” Thayer said. cally to be life. 
knew I had a decent
fights. But as he learned the hockey player. After facing some tough spar-ready for the “Fr. Daley is sport and continued fighting “I spent my whole life playing ring sessions and learning the bouts.” chance against him, but a silent pillar while abroad in Ireland, Thayer hockey and was never allowed sport during his novice season, While study-of the pro-
that was the frst time I 
soon it was Thayer doing the ing abroad dur-gram, and he’s 
realized I had power.” 
punishing in the ring. ing the fall become a very 
“My first fight only lasted 23 semester of his close friend seconds,” Thayer said. “I knew junior year in Tim Thayer and mentor,” I had a decent chance against Dublin, Thayer Thayer said. 
senior captain
him, but that was the first time continued fight-“There hasn’t I realized I had power. I never ing and devel-been a fight realized I could knock someone oping his skills. He joined the where he hasn’t been in my out.” University College Dublin’s box-corner, and sometimes it does-
He cruised to the tournament ing club, and right away had to n’t feel fair — my opponent is in finals, where he won his first prove himself to another group that ring alone, and he has to title in 2008 in the 146-pound while sparring. fight two men. Fr. Daley has division over Mark Costanzo. “We got into the ring to spar impacted my life far beyond the Thayer defeated several veter-and realized neither of us had ring and I know we will be an fighters in the tournament in on headgear, but neither of us friends for a long time.” winning his novice year. wanted to be the one to say Thayer plans on attending 
“Before the tournament even something,” Thayer said. “He medical school after his senior started I thought about how the just nailed me with a left hook year, but doesn’t plan on letting entire thing has been so worth square on the jaw and I could-go of boxing anytime soon. it, even if I didn’t set foot in the n’t chew for two weeks.” “I enjoy the irony that I’m ring it had been an amazing While fighting abroad Thayer going to med school next year, experience,” Thayer said. suffered the only loss of his but wherever I go I don’t plan “From my first fight on, it was amateur career, losing in the on giving up boxing,” Thayer just icing on the cake. finals of an Irish college cham-said. “I hope to eventually get 
“That was when I fell in love pionship tournament. Still back into Golden Glovers or with boxing in particular — undefeated on American soil, something. Either way, I look before I loved the Bengal Bouts, Thayer returned for his junior back and realize I’m a much but [the 2008 tournament] was year a trained and polished better and more confident per-when I fell in love with the fighter. son because of this program.” sport.” “I had been training for a 
After winning the tournament year and a half straight, and I Contact Michael Bryan at after his novice season, Thayer knew I could just go out there mbryan@nd.edu 

Sayles battles back from injury to reach second title fight 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Editor 
Months after Mike Sayles broke his fibula, tibia and ankle less than three weeks before the start of Bengal Bouts during his sophomore year, he still felt a lingering pain that went far beyond his right leg. 
“Missing the Bouts changes your perspective on everything because there’s so much more to motivate you, especially by the time you step into the ring,” Sayles said. “Having it taken away from me after training for as long as I did was really the motivator. I put in all that hard work and I was feeling really good heading into the fights, so that feeling is now always in the back of my mind, always there.” 
And it will be again Saturday night when Sayles squares off against fellow senior captain Chris Cugliari in the finals of the 133-pound weight division. 
For Sayles, who demolished his right leg playing snow foot­ball on a Sorin Hall retreat, Saturday’s finals represents his last opportunity to accomplish a goal he began to work toward after winning one fight as a freshman. It’s been a long road to return that required Sayles to work at the simplest of tasks most would take for granted. 
“The worst part was that I couldn’t get into my loft, so I couldn’t sleep in my bed for a month and a half,” Sayles said. “I ended up sleeping on a futon for the first half of the semester until after spring break when I could get myself up the ladder again.” 
Sayles said he began jogging at the end of June, but even then, he could only work out every other day to keep his ankle from locking up and caus­ing an additional setback. 
“It was really a gradual process of working back up. I went to novice season again in the fall to basically start over,” Sayles said. “I had to learn how to fight differently because the range of motion in my ankle wasn’t there, so it forced me to develop a different style of box­ing that has carried over to how I fight now.” 
Even with the bad ankle and new style, Sayles came within a few punches of a Bengal Bouts title last year, falling in the finals by a split decision. And while he was naturally disap­pointed to lose, he couldn’t help but reflect on how far he had come. 
That’s what the Bengal Bouts are all about, Sayles said. 
“Going to practice would suck. It would hurt, it would be painful, and I’d come back and have to ice my ankle or I could-n’t walk the next day. After a while, your body gets so worn out from the workouts because they’re so intense,” Sayles said. “ But I think going to practice every day, forcing yourself to go, is half the battle and kind of what makes it fun — pushing yourself to do things you would-n’t have thought you could have done before.” 
As a senior captain and a Resident Assistant in Sorin College, Sayles has served as an ambassador of sorts for the boxing club. When he speaks about the Bengal Bouts, he said he first conveys the important life lessons the sport has taught him and so many others. 
“When people ask me about boxing, especially guys in the dorm, it’s always everything except boxing I mention first. And then at the very end it’s a throw-in that you get to learn how to box, which is pretty cool,” Sayles said. “It’s learning about yourself and building character. There’s just so much growth for a lot of different peo­ple, and it makes me proud to see the way some of the guys develop throughout the course of the season as they learn to take certain things a little more seriously.” 
That message certainly res­onated with Bobby Sullivan, a Sorin sophomore who lost a tough split decision in the pre­liminaries but who wouldn’t have come that close without Sayles, he said. 
“When it was time to choose who would be in our corner, it was no surprise that Sayles had a problem because too many people had chosen him,” Sullivan said. “From the very start his work ethic carried over to the rest of us, always willing to work with us in and out of practice. Sayles embodied what a captain should be.” 
Sayles will graduate in May with a degree in finance and political science, and he will begin his career this fall as a financial analyst in Chicago with investment bank Houlihan Lokey. 

A lover and a fighter, Sayles and fiancé Maggie McNicholas, a senior at Saint Mary’s, hope to be married in the Basilica in July 2011. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
Motivated Maier moves forward after finals loss 
then -senior captain Dan want to go in and win it all.” Bangladesh. During the six-“Just coming in as a fresh-
By LAURA MYERS 
Rodgers, Maier was named He will have a chance to do week service trip, Maier and man, not really being 
Sports Writer 
Most Improved Boxer. This so Saturday when he takes on fellow boxers Bobby Powers, involved in anything, I just year, the announcers even freshman Alex Oloriz in the Sean Pennino and Jim Woods, saw it as something that 
John Maier has already declared his nickname (“My finals of the 160 -pound all juniors, taught English at could really structure my life amassed plenty of hardware Body is a Wonderland”) as the weight class. the Holy Cross Missions. here in college,” Maier said. from his four years partici-best one. “I think every fighter that “[We] just really experi -“And then from that day on I pating in Bengal Bouts. All he But Maier isn’t quite satis-I’m going to fight is going to enced Bangladesh and our just loved the training and needs now is a championship fied. be pushing me and challeng-missions and what our train-loved the fight itself, and just trophy to add to his shelf. “I lost in a close fight and it ing me to be the best that I’ve ing goes for,” Maier said. kept doing it for four years.” 
As a sophomore, Maier fal-just pushed me to come back trained for,” Maier said. “That experience, it just Accepting the captaincy as tered in his first fight and even harder the next year,” This summer, Maier learned made everything that we do a senior was a natural pro­later received the Bill Seech Maier said of his 2009 cham-firsthand that all of his train-with boxing and trying to pro-gression, Maier said, that he Award, given to the best pionship bout. “It’s not to say ing was about more than just mote it as a leader that much had looked forward to since boxer not to make it out of that if I had won I wouldn’t a championship when he par-more important. More boxers he joined. the preliminaries. have come back stronger, ticipated in Notre Dame’s first and more people staying and “Ever since I’d gotten into 
A year later, after losing in wanting to win it again, but it International Summer Service fighting just means more boxing as a freshman I want-the championship fight to just pushed me that now I Learning Project in money for Bangladesh.” ed to be a captain,” he said. The experience affected “I wanted to be a leader in how he has the program. functioned as I just thought 
“[Traveling to 
a leader of it was some-the Bengal Bangladesh] made thing that I Bouts, Maier everything that we do could be good said, espe -at, and I
with boxing and trying to
cially in wanted to 
promote it as a leader
relaying what help people. I he saw to that much more really like younger fight-helping peo­
important.” 
ers. ple with box­
“In coming ing.” back as a John Maier Though his senior cap -senior captain four years tain, I’ ve with Bengal been able to Bouts have tie in a lot more to how we been marked with achieve-train and what we train to ments from every aspect of other people,” he said. the program, Maier still has 
Maier himself began fight-one goal left to accomplish. ing as a freshman when a “I made it to the finals last friend from his section in year, and now it was the goal Keough began needling him and determination to keep on about going out for boxing. training for the champi ­Maier finally assented, join-onship,” he said. “I think it’s ing the club a week after just always pushing myself to novice season had started. It do something better than I only took a week for the ini-did last year.” tial soreness to wear off and for Maier to get hooked, he Contact Laura Myers at said. lmyers2@nd.edu 


IAN GAVLICK/The Observer 
The Bengal Bouts semifinals Tuesday night consisted of drama, pain, elation and relief — all within 26 fights. The fights, in 13 weight divisions, were simply the prelude to Saturday’s 
finals, which begin at 7 p.m. in the Purcell Pavilion. 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
For more photos, check out the photo gallery at ndsmcobserver.com 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
IAN GAVLICK/The Observer 




IAN GAVLICK/The Observer JULIE HERDER/The Observer 
The Observer 
Scene
Friday, February 26, 2010 page 13 
By BRANDY CERNE “Project Runway” also has a you feel bad for her employees 
Scene Writer clearly defined villain on each sea-who actually do work hard, and 
son. There was Santino Rice in realize that she is a horrible boss. 
Season 2, Jeffrey Sebelia in However, that in no way means 
Love them or hate them, catty Season 3, and Irina Shabayeva in that we want her to be nicer. villains — to put the term nicely — Season 6, to name a few. These Instead, I find myself waiting for are almost always the best char-insensitive designers may talk her to yell at someone, which acters on television. badly about other designs, but luckily happens quite often. Kell 
While they are portrayed as the they usually have the most talent on Earth airs on Mondays at 10 villain to the main character, often and end up either winning or p.m. I find myself rooting for them coming quite close. They just say My favorite reality villain? instead. Their acid tongues speak what we are thinking at home Hands down, comedienne Kathy the truth (albeit in a nasty, sneaky when we see some of those Griffin. Griffin rightfully has her way), making them the voice of hideous designs. own reality show, also on Bravo, reason amid the delusionals that These villains do not only exist “Kathy Griffin: My Life on the D-seem to live on TV. on reality reruns though. Bravo List.” The more fame Griffin has 
They exist in both reality and seems to specialize in giving them received from her Emmy-award­scripted shows, but they are their own television shows, mak-winning show, the more opportu­always best on reality shows when ing it one of the most guilty pleas-nities she has had to interact with they offer their own scathing com-ure television networks. Each other celebrities, which pays off in mentary. Do not get me wrong, I “Real Housewives” location is hilarious material for her fans. would not want to come across catty in its own right, but “Real Griffin holds back on no one as them in real life, but there is no Housewives of New York City” she details these encounters that doubt that these catty villains takes it to another level. show everyone how ridiculous make for the best entertainment. On the outside, these women celebrities and Hollywood culture They can be men or women, but have successful careers and fami-can be. Many think she is overly either way, they will do and say lies. They describe themselves as cruel, but you can see from the anything to get what they want. classy and having etiquette. Yet show that she has a good heart. 
It is easiest to spot them on real-after watching one episode, it Most celebrities deserve it, any­ity shows, where casting directors becomes evident that the majority way. “Life on the D-List” is cur-search for who will antagonize the of their time is spent flitting from rently filming new episodes. house and talk about fellow con-one cast member to another, talk-So thank you, television — and testants during their confession-ing about the awful behavior of especially you, Bravo — for giving als. Each cycle of “America’s Next the person they were just talking us what we want: more catty vil-Top Model” has a new one, but to. The third season starts March lains. Even though they may not the best from ANTM’s history has 4. be nice, they are something bet-to be Jade from cycle six. She Bravo adds more bitchiness with ter: truthful and entertaining. preyed on the weaknesses of other its new series “Kell on Earth.” It After all, who wants to watch a model-wannabe Gina, made arro-follows the life of Kelly Cutrone, bunch of people be nice to each gant statements like “My look is in head of fashion PR firm People’s other? If I did, I would watch a different realm that people can-Revolution and former boss on Extreme Makeover Home Edition, not handle,” and left the audience “The City.” Cutrone was always which just for the record, lost two with a beat poem when she was the best character of MTV’s script-years in a row at the Emmys to eliminated. Sometimes scary but ed reality shows, as she justifiably My Life on the D-List. always entertaining, Jade could cut down blond bimbo employees stand up with the best of these left and right. Contact Brandy Cerne at catty villains. After watching “Kell on Earth,” bcerne1@nd.edu 
JACLYN ESPINOZA | Observer Graphic 
OLYMPICS 
USA wins frst medals ever in a Nordic sport 
Associated Press 
WHISTLER, British Columbia 
— They swore they didn’t care which one of them won gold to become America’s first Olympic champion in a Nordic sport. 
Anyone who watched, knew Billy Demong skied to win. 
He attacked on the final hill, hustled into the stadium and raced across the finish line well ahead of three-time silver medalist Johnny Spillane, giving the United States a 1-2 finish Thursday in the large hill com­petition at Nordic combined. 
Challenging wind gusts and pelting rain, sleet and snow on the jump hill did little to dampen the Americans’ jubilation. 
“I don’t think either of us real­ly cared which one was first or second,” Demong, of Vermontville, N.Y., said after ending America’s golden goose egg in Nordic sports at the Winter Games by winning the 10-kilometer cross country leg in 25 minutes, 32.9 seconds. 
Spillane, of Steamboat Springs, Colo., was four seconds behind him, and Bernhard Gruber of Austria, who had a 34-second head start after jump­ing the farthest off the large hill following a restart, was 10.8 
seconds  back  and won  the  
bronze.  
Twice  before  at  these  

Vancouver Games, Spillane was edged for the gold medal on the stadium straightaway, first by France’s Jason Lamy Chappuis in the normal hill race and then by Austria’s Mario Stecher in the team relay Tuesday. 
“Whoever was first and who­ever wasn’t second didn’t really matter that much,” said Spillane, the only U.S. multi-medalist in Nordic sports. “Skiing into the stadium down that final stretch was quite a bit of fun.” 
He knew he couldn’t catch Demong and couldn’t be caught by Gruber, so he had a leisurely finish to relish his third silver. 
Demong started in sixth place and 46 seconds back, but quick­ly caught his teammate and Gruber on a one-man break­away from the chase group for a three-man race the rest of the way. 
They didn’t have to worry about some of the best World Cup athletes catching them after worsening weather in the morn­ing hampered the top jumpers on the large hill, relegating them too far back in the field to be a factor. 
The cross country race was run in much better weather, but the soft, sometimes choppy snow put a premium on the proper wax and ski setup. Unlike the team relay when Demong was done in by bad skis, he had the perfect combination this time to put the Americans atop the podi­um. 
But the damage had been done to the sport’s better ath­letes, including the top five in the World Cup standings, who had terrible jumps in horrible conditions. 
“It’s a joke,” Norway’s Magnus Moan fumed of final Nordic combined race at the Winter Games after managing to jump just 112.5 meters in a driving, wet snow and tail wind that pushed him down early. 
That had him starting 2 min­utes, 21 seconds behind Gruber, who jumped in much better con­ditions after a restart earlier in the morning. Gruber, ranked 22nd in the World Cup stand­ings, capitalized on a rogue headwind that helped him stay aloft for a top jump of 134 meters. 
“It’s like a lottery. Some guys got good conditions, some others terrible conditions,” shrugged World Cup leader Jason Lamy Chappuis, of France, who won the gold in the normal hill 10K but started this race in 29th and finished in 18th. 
The complaints about the win­try weather didn’t faze the Americans. 
“This is an outdoor sport,” Spillane said. “And I can tell you that most of the time, the last five or 10 guys have the best conditions. So, it trades off all the time.” 
Todd Lodwick, America’s only five-time Olympic skier, did his part to help his teammates after also being done in by weather woes. 
“Once I saw those two guys pull away, I jumped in front (of the chase group) and tried to slow down the pace,” Lodwick said. 
It worked perfectly. 
“I could see that Todd, in his own way, was doing a job for the team, and not attacking,” Demong said. “He was just always at the front, covering those strong guys like Hannu (Finland’s Manninen) and (Germany’s Bjoern) Kircheisen. 
“It shows again that we oper­ate on a team basis.” 
With Lodwick doing his part, Spillane and Demong took turns trading the lead and using tac­tics they learned while doing bicycle intervals in France dur­ing training last year: accelerat­ing and times, decelerating at others, a tactic that eventually did in Gruber. 
“They were just too strong,” Gruber said. 
OLYMPICS 
Canadian women win gold 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia — Canada’s game. Canada’s ice. Canada’s gold. Again. 
Marie-Philip Poulin scored two goals, Shannon Szabados made 28 saves, and Canada rolled through its American rivals, 2-0, to win the gold medal in women’s hockey for the third straight Olympics Thursday night in front of a raucous Vancouver crowd ringing cowbells and frantical­ly waving thousands of maple leaf flags. 
After Poulin’s two first-peri­od scores, the Canadians dom­inated every aspect of the biggest game in this young sport, earning their 15th straight Olympic victory. 
“I looked up in the stands and saw a sign that said, ‘Proud to be Canadian,’ and that’s what I am today,” Szabados said. “My teammates were unbelievable today. We played a great game, and this is an incredible moment.” 
Playing with a consistency and passion its men’s team hopes to emulate this week­end, Canada remained unbeaten at the Olympics since 1998, when the Americans won the first women’s gold. 
The Canadians kept nearly the entire game in the Americans’ end — outpassing, outshooting and simply out­working the only team in women’s hockey with a chance of standing up to them. 
While some debate the via­bility of an Olympic sport with two such dominant powers on top, the Canadians celebrated 
— and several even went back on the ice an hour after their win, carrying champagne bot­tles and posing for pictures in the near-empty arena. 
“We commit. We work hard,” said Canadian captain Hayley Wickenheiser, a four-time Olympian with three gold medals. “It’s up to the rest of the world to catch up. This is not as easy as it looks, trust me.” 
Earlier, Finland won the bronze medal, beating Sweden 3-2 in overtime. 
Canada got two first-period goals from Poulin, the super-speedy 18-year-old forward from Quebec who claims she felt no Olympic pressure. Their smooth, graceful goalie did the rest, with Szabados capping her first Olympics with flawless netminding in a win that sometimes seemed just as one-sided as Canada’s 18-0 victory over Slovakia to open the Olympics 12 days ago. 
Much of the Canadian men’s team, which faces Slovakia in the semifinals Friday, watched the game from press box seats above the ice, while Michael J. Fox, Wayne Gretzky and sev­eral Canadian gold medalists from other sports were in the stands. Several members of the American men’s team were there, too. 
“We kept turning to each other after the game and say­ing how much we love having the Olympics in Canada,” four-time Olympian Jennifer Botterill said. “This country has supported us any time we’ve played, and today was an amazing example of that.” 
Jessie Vetter made 27 saves for the Americans, whose offense evaporated in front of Szabados and the Canadian defense. The potent power play that produced 13 goals in the last four games went 0­for-6, and the Canadians con­sistently won most of the bat­tles in a physical, grinding game. 
When the puck went to cen­ter ice and time expired, the Canadians skated into a mas­sive pile-up near their goal. Several cheering fans threw flags over the glass to the players, who wrapped them around their shoulders like capes. 
Meghan Agosta, voted the tournament MVP for her Olympic-record nine-goal per­formance, draped a flag over herself and Sarah Vaillancourt. Coach Melody Davidson congratulated her assistants and then shared a long hug with a team manager who lifted her off the ground, her heels in the air. 
Several Americans were in tears, including four-time Olympians Angela Ruggiero and Jenny Potter, who had her two children on the ice with her for the medal presenta­tion. The Canadian crowd raised a chant of “U-S-A!” while the players got their bouquets. 
“When you give your whole life to something and you come up short, as a team, it’s just awful,” Ruggiero said, choking back tears. “It’s a lit­tle different than playing on the men’s side. You really give your life to it. You make lots of sacrifices to win the gold medal.” 
The only matchup that mat­ters in women’s hockey was set up in Monday’s semifinals, when the Americans routed Sweden and Canada clobbered Finland to finish two dominant runs through the field. Canada outscored its opponents 46-2, starting with an 18-0 rout of Slovakia. The Americans had a 40-2 advantage, with neither team winning by fewer than five goals. 
“This rivalry will never end,” Szabados said. “It will keep going and going.” 
Canada’s Jayna Hefford pre­dicted the gold-medal match would be the best game in women’s hockey history, matching two nations with far larger talent pools and finan­cial resources than the rest of the world combined. 
It might have been the best game ever — but only for the Canadians, who didn’t waste their once-in-a-lifetime chance to win gold medals on home ice. 
After losing the Canada Cup to the U.S. team on this same ice in September, Canada clearly built on the lessons of six straight exhibition victories over the Americans in the months leading up to the Olympics, showing quicker skating and smarter puck movement throughout. 
The Canada Hockey Place crowd was hopping from 45 minutes before Potter and Wickenheiser took the opening faceoff, with competing chants of “Go Canada Go!” and “U-S­A!” reverberating through the rink. 
Davidson waited until game time to reveal she had chosen the up-and-coming Szabados over Kim St. Pierre, who won the gold-medal game over the Americans in Salt Lake City in 2002. Szabados, who plays on a men’s college team in Alberta, beat the Americans in the final of the Four Nations Cup last fall. 
Both teams took early penal­ties, and the Americans failed to score on a two-man advan­tage for 40 seconds. Moments later, Poulin flung a quick pass from Botterill through a corri­dor of four U.S. defenders for the Quebecois star’s fourth Olympic goal. 
Poulin did it again 2:55 later during 4-on-4 play, collecting a faceoff and ripping a shot that was simply too quick for Vetter to see. Poulin’s face shield couldn’t conceal the broad grin on her face when she watched the replay on the overhead scoreboard. 
The Americans got nearly 100 seconds of 5-on-3 advan­tage early in the second, but couldn’t connect. The drought extended into the third period, with the U.S. team putting far too many of its shots high, right where Szabados could see them. 
“Szabados played out of her mind,” U.S. forward Monique Lamoureux said. “It’s never fun to lose, especially in a championship game.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Faculty/grad students. If you or someone you care about “Aaron broke the clock!” has been sexually assaulted, we ——————————————— WANTED FOR RENT 2 bdrm, 2.5 bath, LR, DR, FR, PERSONAL can help. For more information, visit “Hey, have you seen Slumdog 
Florida room, utility room. Notre Dame's website: Millionaire? It’s loosely based on WANTED, Apple iPhone SDK Off-Campus housing 2010-11 and UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do http.csap.nd.edu my life.” developers. 2011/12. 2-car attached garage. Security not go it alone. Notre Dame has ——————————————— Contact daniel@miSoft.com. system. many resources in place to assist BUFFALOOOOOOOOOOOOOO! 
Irish Crossings, Dublin Village, you. If you or someone you love NOTICES ——————————————— Wexford Place. Also a few houses Available now. 262-332-0015. needs confidential support or assis-"Yes madam, I am drunk, but you and Villas. Some furnished. Shown by appt. 1616 E. Colfax. tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at are ugly and in the morning, I'll be
FOR SALE 
——————————————— 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For 2 AKC registered English Bull dogs sober." 
Call 574-298-4206. CES Property House 3 bed, 3 bath, new more information, visit ND's web for free. ——————————————— Forclosure Properties in South Management rehab/clean, so close to ND you site: "I'm normally not a praying man, but Bend. Seller Financing Available!! ———————————————-can see campus from the yard! If interested please contact: d.harri-if you're up there, please save me Visit roselandco.com for details. gradrentals.viewwork.com Email alexrock@rock.com! http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu son120@gmail.com Superman." ——————————————— ———————————————-——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around t eNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Friday, February 26, 2010 
page 15 
NCAA Division I Men’s Baseball USA Today Rankings 
team previous 
1 Texas 2 2 LSU 1 3 Cal. State Fullerton 7 4 Virginia 5 5 Florida State 10 6 Rice 9 7 UC Irvine 16 8 Arizona State 2 9 Florida 13 10 Georgia Tech 18 11 North Carolina 4 12 TCU 12 13 Miami (Fla.) 20 14 Oregon State NR 15 Clemson 14 16 Arkansas 6 17 Mississippi 11 18 East Carolina 15 19 Coastal Carolina 23 20 Louisville 17 21 Ohio State NR 22 Oklahoma 19 23 San Diego NR 24 Southern Miss. 8 25 Stanford NR 
NCAA Division I Women’s Softball USA Today Rankings 
team  previous  
1  Washington  1  
2  Arizona  2  
3  Florida  3  
4  Michigan  4  
5  UCLA  7  
6  Missouri  6  
7  Arizona State  5  
8  Georgia  8  
9  Alabama  9  
10  Stanford  11  
11  Georgia Tech  10  
12  Oklahoma  13  
13  California  12  
14  Texas  20  
15  Louisville  15  
16  LSU  19  
17  Ohio State  14  
18  Louisiana-Lafayette  16  
19  Fresno State  17  
20  Massachusetts  18  
21  Tennessee  22  
22  Florida State  23  
23  Northwestern  21  
24  Texas A&M  NR  
25  North Carolina  24  



around the dial 
Olympic Ice Hockey 
United States vs. Finland 3 p.m., NBC 
NBA 
Mavericks at Hawks 7 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 

LaRussa scoffs at new McGwire book 
Associated Press 
JUPITER, Fla. — St. Louis Cardinals manager Tony La Russa has no plans to read a new book that suggests Mark McGwire knew steroids would boost his power at the plate. 
The book, to be released Monday, is by McGwire’s estranged brother, Jay McGwire. He says Big Mac knew he became a better hitter because steroids 
enhanced  his  size  and  
strength.  
Last  month,  McGwire  

admitted taking steroids and human growth hor­mone during the 1990s, but said he only did so to recover from injuries — not to improve his perform­ance. He hasn’t commented on the book as he works with hitters at the Cardinals’ spring training facility in his new job as batting coach. 
La Russa told reporters Thursday that the allega­tions sound familiar. He said someone he knew read an advance copy and it doesn’t sound as though the book includes “first­page-to-last-page damning stuff about Mark.” 
The manager said he doesn’t plan to read it. 
“What’s the point?” La Russa said. “It’s stuff that’s already been gone over a bunch of times. I don’t know what it’s going to change.” 
Estranged from his brother for eight years because of a family dispute, Jay McGwire has gone pub­lic in “Mark and Me: Mark McGwire and the Truth Behind Baseball’s Worst-Kept Secret,” which is scheduled for publication Monday by TriumphBooks. 
Jay McGwire says in the book that he persuaded his brother to start using steroids regularly in 1994 and set him up with a sup­plier. He says Mark regu­larly used an array of drugs through 1996 that included Deca-Durabolin, human growth hormone, Dianabol, Winstrol and Primobolan. McGwire later used androstenedione, a steroid precursor that was­n’t banned by baseball until 2004, when it became a controlled substance. 
Jay McGwire, a former bodybuilder who turns 40 on May 5, said he was introduced to steroids by friends in 1989, beginning with pills of Anavar. He says his brother only gave in to using steroids after an injury-filled 1993 season. 
La Russa, who managed Mark in Oakland before the pair reunited in St. Louis, recalled seeing Jay McGwire in the Athletics clubhouse, but said he did-n’t think Jay was taking steroids. 
Mark McGwire hit 70 homers for the Cardinals in 1998, shattering Roger Maris’ record of 61 set in 1961. 
IN BRIEF 
Concussions get more emphasis at combine 
INDIANAPOLIS — NFL draft hopefuls are undergoing more thorough exams for head injuries at this week’s annual scouting combine. 
All 329 invited players will be given a baseline brain activity exam — called the ImPACT test — and will likely face more grilling than previous classes did about their concussion histories. Those implementing the changes call it smart football. 
In past years, it was up to indi­vidual teams to conduct such tests. 
By examining everyone at the combine, the league will have a more standardized way of evaluat­ing players and potentially collect­ing data about repeated hits to the head. It’s another step toward making the game safer as aware­ness increases about the long-term dangers of concussions. 
Fight breaks out after 
S.C. high school game 
GREENVILLE, S.C. — A boys’ high school basketball playoff game in South Carolina finished with a brawl after the buzzer. 
Multiple media outlets reported the fight broke out Wednesday night as players gathered to shake hands fol­lowing Southside’s 61-55 win over Abbeville in the Class 2A playoffs. 
Fans from both schools rushed out of the stands to join the fight, over­whelming the three police officers on hand. 
More Greenville County sheriff’s deputies rushed to the gym as coach­es got the teams off the court. Sheriff’s Lt. Tim Ridgeway says no arrests were made because officers were most concerned with clearing the building. 
Southside coach B.J. Jackson says he’s worried some of his players will be suspended for the semifinal game Saturday against Keenan. 
Wizards buy out Ilgauskas ’ contract 
WASHINGTON — The Washington Wizards bought out the contract of center Zydrunas Ilgauskas and waived him, the team announced on Thursday. 
The 7-foot-3 Ilgauskas, who was acquired from Cleveland on Feb. 17 as part of the three-team trade that sent Antawn Jamison to the Cavaliers, didn’t play for Washington. He reported on Feb. 19, took a physical and immedi­ately returned to Cleveland. 
The 34-year-old is averaging 7.5 points and 5.3 rebounds this sea­son. 
“We agreed to terms with Zydrunas on a contract buyout, giving us further financial flexibil­ity and allowing our young big men to continue to develop over the remainder of the season, ” Wizards president Ernie Grunfeld said. 
NBA 
Cavs defeat Celtics behind LeBron’s 36 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — The Celtics were better early, then LeBron James and the Cavaliers blew right by them. 
Story of this game. 
Story of the season. 
James had 36 points, nine assists and seven rebounds, Mo Williams scored 14 of his 19 points in the fourth quar­ter, and Cleveland dominated the second half in a 108-88 victory 
TD Garden, but most of the green-clad fans were gone before the final minutes after the deeper Cavaliers wore them down. 
Cleveland outscored Boston 60-32 in the second half, allowing just five bas­kets in the final 17 1/2 min­utes. 
“When they were scoring that much, it was deflating. Took our wind away,” Boston coach Doc Rivers said. “We went from being a team with 
stops and 
Thursday night. attacking to 
“We’ve lost nine 
Unable to the team stop Rajon times coming into this being 
Rondo or the building. So it gets attacked.” Celtics in the T h e
the monkey off our
first quarter, Cavali ers the Cavaliers back.” trailed for turned up the nearly all the defense in the first three 
LeBron James 
fourth, limiting quarters,
Cavaliers forward 
the Celtics to 3­of-21 shooting and snapping a nine-game losing streak in Boston, counting playoffs. 
“We haven’t had much suc­cess here,” James said. “We’ve lost nine times com­ing into this building. So it gets the monkey off our backs. But don’t read too much into it.” 
James kept the Cavaliers in it for three quarters on a night they lost Shaquille O’Neal to a first-half thumb injury, then Williams made four 3-pointers when Cleveland outscored Boston 35-14. 
“I think in the second half our level of aggressiveness really stepped up on both ends of the floor,” Cleveland coach Mike Brown said. “There was no panic among our guys. We knew 24 min­utes was a lot of time. We just started chipping away from it.” 
Ray Allen scored 21 points, and Rondo had 19 points and 11 assists for the Celtics, who badly missed injured All-Star Paul Pierce (right thumb) when their offense then quickly 
took control in the fourth. Williams’ bas­ket gave them the lead for good at 79-78 with 9:13 to play, and he drilled consecu­tive 3-pointers to extend it to 93-83 with 5 1/2 minutes remaining. 
James had the next four points to make it a 14-point game in another big night against the NBA’s most sto­ried franchise. He came in averaging 30.2 points against Boston, just shy of Michael Jordan’s 30.7 mark for best in NBA history. 
He had to do a little extra after O’Neal appeared to be hurt when Celtics forward Glen Davis whacked his hand while trying to block a shot with about 7 1/2 minutes left in the second quarter. O’Neal left for good about 30 sec­onds later, and the report said he had a “significant” right thumb sprain. 
And they are without a backup center for now after trading Zydrunas Ilgauskas to Washington before the trade deadline. The Wizards waived Ilgauskas on Th ursday after reach-
went stagnant ing agree­
“When they were
in the final 1 1/2 ment on a quarters. scoring that much, it buyout, and 
“They were a was defating. Took he could lot more aggres-decide to 
our wind away.” 
sive in the sec-rejoin his ond half. They former made adjust-Doc Rivers teammates ments to stop Celtics coach after waiting 
Rondo’s pene­tration,” Celtics forward Kevin Garnett said. “We knew it was a real big test. We can’t play one half and relax.” 
Cleveland improved to 20­10 on the road, tying Boston for the best in the NBA, and avenged a 95-89 home loss on opening night. 
That came back when Boston looked like the class of the Eastern Conference while the Cavaliers struggled early. But the Celtics have been unable to stay healthy and Cleveland has left the Celtics and everyone else in the East behind, opening a 5 1/2 -game lead over Orlando while dropping Boston 7 1/2 games back in a tie with Atlanta. 
This game followed a simi­lar path. Boston was much better early inside a rocking the manda­
tory 30 days. 
Cleveland had struggled defensively since the trade, a pattern that continued Thursday. The Celtics made 10 of their first 13 shots, with Rondo making five of the baskets and assisting on the other five. His layup with 33 sec­onds left gave Boston a 31­21 lead after one quarter. 
Newcomer Nate Robinson’s 3-pointer extended the lead to 40-27 with 9:46 remaining in the half. The lead was still double digits after Allen nailed two 3s late in the half, and Boston carried a 56-48 lead into the break. 
The Cavaliers limited the Celtics to 6-of-20 shooting in the third quarter, trimming the lead to 74-73 after James made a free throw with 0.4 seconds left. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Blue Devils tested by Tulsa 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. — Mike Krzyzewski wanted a pre-tour­nament test for his Duke players. For perhaps longer than expect­ed, they got one. 
But ultimately, the fifth-ranked Blue Devils—and their “Big Three,” plus one—was too much for Tulsa, pulling away for a 70­52 victory Thursday night. 
Nolan Smith scored 18 points, Kyle Singler added 17 and Jon Scheyer finished with 15 points for the Blue Devils (24-4). 
They used a big run early in the second half to break open a surprisingly tight game and extend their decade-long non-conference winning streak at Cameron Indoor Stadium to 77 by winning an out-of-the-ACC matchup designed to prepare the Blue Devils for the unfamiliar but high-quality foes that figure to lurk in the NCAA tournament bracket. 
“We’ve got to keep getting bet­ter, and you don’t get better by taking time off,” Krzyzewski said. “Right now, you’ve got to keep working, and we knew that this game would put us in that position.” 
Jerome Jordan had 12 points to lead the Golden Hurricane (19-9). In losing their fourth straight, they finished with a sea-son-low point total and were denied their first victory against a top-five team since 1996. Leading scorer Ben Uzoh, who entered on a streak of three straight 20-point games, finished with eight on 3-of-15 shooting while being hounded primarily by Smith. 
“You knew they would be pre­pared for Ben, for the most part,” Tulsa coach Doug Wojcik said. “He competed, missed a couple shots on the break. In our league, he probably gets a few more trips to the free-throw line, but it’s good for him.” 
Brian Zoubek, a 7-foot-1 sen­ior, has stepped out of the shad-ow of the Scheyer-Smith-Singler trio lately to become one of the most valuable players for the Atlantic Coast Conference lead­ers. He finished with 10 points and 11 rebounds, and started the game-breaking 18-3 run with a layup through the 7-foot Jordan’s foul with 19:05 remaining. 

“He isn’t the athlete Jordan is, but (Zoubek) is strong,” Krzyzewski said of the dueling 7­footers. “I was just happy that he held his own against Jordan. … No one won that matchup, but we didn’t lose it, so that was kind of a win for us.” 
Smith then reeled off six straight points and Scheyer scored eight in a row before Miles Plumlee hit a hook shot to make it 52-37 with 13 1/2 min­utes left. 
That had the Blue Devils well on their way to their 18th straight win at Cameron. They have won 41 straight at home against unranked opponents, they are 16-0 there this season with all but one of those victories by double figures, and Friday makes it 10 years since St. John’s became the last non-ACC team to beat them on their home court. 
Justin Hurtt added 11 points for the Golden Hurricane and tied it at 34 with a free throw with 19:20 to play, but they missed 6 of 7 shots after that while turning it over three times during Duke’s decisive spurt. 
Steven Idlet had 10 points for Tulsa, which finished 1 of 10 from 3-point range and shot 26 percent from the field during the second half. 
“I thought we had some shots inside that we just didn’t con­vert,” Wojcik said. “But I’m just really proud of my team. I’m glad to have played the game and have the experience. We’re going to get better from this.” 
Lance Thomas had 10 rebounds while his post partner Zoubek reached double figures for the third time in four games. 
“I think that everybody has a lot more confidence in me right now— offensively, defensively and all over the court,” Zoubek said. 

OLYMPICS 
Vonn to ski despite injury 
Associated Press 
WHISTLER, British Columbia 
— It will take more than a bro­ken pinkie to stop Lindsey Vonn’s pursuit of Olympic glory. 
The two-time World Cup overall champion from Vail, Colo., will put a plastic brace on her injured finger, wear a mitten over it instead of a ski glove — even tape the ski pole to her hand if she has to — and climb into the starting gate as scheduled for Friday’s slalom. 
Did you expect anything less? 
It’s the last women’s Alpine event of the Vancouver Games, and Vonn is trying to become the first American woman to medal in three of them in the same Olympics. 
Vonn cracked the base of her right little finger and tweaked her shin and back when she crashed during the first run of Wednesday’s giant slalom. She tested the finger in a series of practice runs Thursday and was satisfied that she can race. 
“Training was OK,” Vonn wrote on her Facebook page. “I still feel pretty beat up after my crash in GS yesterday. I was able to modify one of my gloves and make a brace for my right hand. It seemed to work with­out too much pain, so I will try and race tomorrow.” 
Her husband, Thomas Vonn, said in an interview with The Associated Press that she’s “a ball of hurt right now,” but the pain is “manageable.” 
“After taking a fall like that, you’re always going to wake up sore,” he said. “You never know how your body is going to adapt the next day. You could wake up fine or ‘Whoa, I can’t move.’ She was just sore.” 
Lindsey Vonn took three low-intensity runs through a slalom course Thursday, each one for a different purpose. The first pass was simply to see if she could ski at all, given her sore back, finger and shin. 
She could. 
The second and third runs were to see how well the finger held up banging into the gates 
— a common occurrence in the slalom — and if the protective padding around her hand would be sufficient. 
No problems there, either. 
“The goal was to find a solu­tion so the pain was moderated enough to do it,” Thomas Vonn said. “Fortunately, we have a history with hand injuries.” 
Last February, Lindsey Vonn sliced her thumb open on a champagne bottle during a photo op gone bad, forcing her to race the rest of the season with her pole taped to her glove. 
“It’s more similar than we could’ve imagined,” Thomas Vonn said of the injured pinkie. 
The 25-year-old Vonn is no stranger to injury, especially at these Olympics. She entered the games with a badly bruised right shin, the result of a crash during slalom training in Austria on Feb. 2. She even tried wrapping her leg in topfen, an Austrian curd cheese said to reduce swelling. 
Still, the injury remained so painful that she struggled to slip on a ski boot in her hotel, let alone ski down a slope, and worried at one point if she would be able to compete in one event, let alone all five. 
PGA 
Nike stands by Woods despite sullied image 
recession, but Nike is standing 
Associated Press 
by Woods despite any damage 
LONDON — Nike will continue done to its imagine by his high-to support Tiger Woods even profile transgressions. though the world’s best player AT&T and Accenture dropped has taken an indefinite leave Woods from their roster of from golf to deal with personal sponsorships, and others like issues. Procter & Gamble Co.’s Gillette 
Nike brand president Charlie and Swiss watch maker Tag 
Denson  said  Heuer  de- 
Thursday he does  e m p h a s i z e d  
not want Woods  “We’ve been  him  in  their  
back course  on the until he  supportive of Tiger  marketing. “We’ve been  
sorts out his pri­ since the story broke  supportive  of  
vate life, which  and we continue to be  Tiger since the  
has been in the public spotlight  supportive.”  story broke and we continue to  
since  a  bizarre  be supportive,”  
car crash outside  Charlie Denson  Denson  said.  
his Florida home  Nike brand president  “He’s got issues  


last November revealed allega­tions of marital infidelity. 
Woods issued a public apology last week and has sought inpa­tient treatment. 
“Under the circumstances, the more he deals with the issues and the better he deals with them, the better off he’ll be when he does return,” Denson told The Associated Press. 
The sports giant’s $650 mil­lion golf sector has been one of the hardest-hit segments of its business during the global 
OLYMPICS 
Canadian celebration out of line, says IOC 
Felli said the IOC would talk 
Associated Press 
to the international ice hock-
VANCOUVER, BRITISH ey federation and the COLUMBIA — The IOC will Canadian Olympic Committee investigate the behavior of to get more information. Canadian women’s hockey “We will first find the facts players who celebrated their and then act accordingly,” he gold medal by swigging beer said. and champagne on the ice. Steve Keough, a spokesman 
Players came  for the Canadian  
back  onto the  O  l  y  m  p  i  c  
ice more than h a l f a n h o u r a f t e r t h e 2 -0 v i c t o r y o v e r  “In terms of the actual celebration, it’s not exactly  Committee, said the COC had not p r o v i d e d t h e alcohol nor initi­ 
t h e U n i t e d States. Still in their uniforms  something uncommon in Canada.”  ated the party. “ I n t e r m s o f the actual cele­ 
and with gold  bration, it’s not  
medals draped a r o u n d t h e i r  Steve Keough Canadian spokesman  e x a c t l y s o m e -thing uncommon  


necks, they swigged from bottles of champagne and cans of beer and smoked cigars. 
Gilbert Felli, the IOC’s exec­utive director of the Olympic Games, said he was unaware 
of the incidents until informed by an Associated Press reporter. 
“If that’s the case, that is not good,” Felli said. “It is not what we want to see. I don’t think it’s a good promotion of sport values. If they celebrate in the changing room, that’s one thing, but not in public. We will investigate what hap­pened.” 
he needs to 
deal with and he’s dealing with them. We are looking forward to him getting back on the golf course.” 
Woods said last week that he spent 45 days in treatment and he planned to seek additional therapy. He did not say when he’ll return to the course. 
“We’ve been in touch with his camp,” Denson said. “We’re very comfortable with where he’s at, how he’s dealing with it and we’re looking forward to his return.” 
in Canada,” he 
said, referring to raucous locker-room cele­brations that are a tradition in some professional team sports. 
“If these athletes were of legal age, then it’s not some­thing that’s against the law,” he said. “We can understand there’s a lot of sensitivity around celebrations.” 
“We condone celebrations. … We don’t condone actions of irresponsibility,” he said. “I think Canadians understand it’s quite an emotional moment for our team. It was not our intention to go against any IOC protocols.” 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish open home schedule 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
The Irish returned home from their season-opening win at Hofstra and are preparing to face Duquesne in the squad’s home opener Saturday. 
The Dukes are looking for their first win of the season, while Notre Dame focuses on fixing flaws from the film it broke down following its victory over the Pride. 
“Obviously, it’s a long season and right now, we’re not doing enough things well,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. “We need to figure out what aspects of our game we’re going to focus on.” 
The Irish (1-0) and Dukes (0­
2) have met five times before, with Notre Dame winning each time. Most recently, Notre Dame opened its 2009 season at Duquesne with a 22-7 win en route to a 16-5 season, while the Dukes finished 9-8 on the year. 
Duquesne, however, returns the core of their team, including senior attack Meghan Frederick, the reigning Atlantic-10 Offensive Player of the year, and all-conference redshirt senior attack Kat McNish, who has the second-most assists of any active col­lege player. 
In addition to Frederick and McNish, the Irish will have to contend with freshman mid­fielder Lauren Johnson, who has tallied five goals in the Dukes’ two games. 
Though Notre Dame will tai­lor its game plan to Duquesne’s strongest players, Coyne is more concerned with her own team’s play at this early part of the season before Big East play starts. 
The Irish’s first game revealed some of those aspects Coyne said her team could improve. 
“We didn’t feel we capitalized enough on our opportunities on both sides of the ball,” she said, among other flaws. 
Notre Dame will focus on pushing the pace of the game to dictate the flow to their advan­tage. On both ends of the field, the Irish will try to keep the tempo up while harassing the Dukes. 
“We want to take advantage of fast break opportunities, not so much force the issue, but not settle right away into the slow­down game,” Coyne said. “From the defensive standpoint, we want to shut down some of our opponent’s options in the transi­tion and put more pressure on our opponents to make it more difficult to get into their settled offense.” 
Notre Dame looks to win its home opener against Duquesne Saturday at 6 p.m. in the Loftus Sports Center. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles prepare for frst road match 
By LUKE MANSOUR 
Sports Writer 
The Belles take on North Central College Sunday in their first away match and final tune -up before their annual spring break trip. 
“We don’t have a lot of his­tory against this team, so we have to plan on them getting up for us,” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. “Also, playing at their place, we could be playing on a fast indoor sur­face, which we have not played on yet this year. We will potentially have to make adjustments to handle the dif­ferent pace.” 
Only a week after suffering a tough loss to non-confer­ence opponent Case Western to begin its season, 

Saint Mary’s 
“We know we can 
faced a “Some of my daunting fght back in matches teammates pulled 
task as No. and pull out a close out tough matches 24 Olivet -and really stepped 
team victory.” 
Nazarene up to the plate and came to made up for those town last Dale Campell of us who strug ­weekend. Belles coach gled,” senior storming back to win the first set in a tiebreaker. 
Lee also had to battle back from a 5-4 deficit to claim her first set 7-5. Both juniors’ experience was on full dis­play as they were able to hang mentally tough with the outcome on the line. 
“We are trying to improve our mental toughness and we certainly talk about that,” Campbell said. “With our lineup consisting of primarily juniors and one senior, we are looking for that maturity to carry over into their deci­sion -making and poise in their matches.” 
Lee also teamed up with junior Jillian Hurley to record a win for the Belles at No. 2 doubles. 
The pair survived a rally by 
their Tiger oppo­
nents and held on 
to win 9-7. 
But the Belles (1-1, 0-0) were up to the task, scoring a signa­ture victory in just their sec­ond match of the season, top­pling the Tigers by a score of 5-4. 
The Belles came back from an early 3-1 deficit to claim their first victory of the sea­son, getting key victories at the No. 4 and No. 5 singles spots to record the victory. 
“In one aspect, it helps in that we know we can fight back in matches and pull out a close team victory,” Campbell said. “It shows how important it is to hang in every match and to try and pull out a win.” 
Juniors Franca Peluso and Mary Therese Lee both had to come back from deficits in the first set of their matches. Peluso fell behind 5-2 in her match at No. 4 singles before Camille Gebert 
said. “It was a 
great mental and physical effort to come up strong when we needed it the most.” 
Hurley and junior Jessica Kosinski recorded wins at the No. 1 and No. 3 singles posi­tions, respectively, to round out the scoring for the Belles. 
Hurley won in straight sets 6-2, 6-4, while Kosinski bat­tled back from a one -set deficit to record a 1-6, 7-5, 6­3 victory. 
“Jessica Kosinski did a great job of coming back and winning in three sets in her match,” Campbell said. 
Still, one trouble area for the squad remains at doubles, where the Belles have lost five of six matches in their first two dual meets. 
“We need to work on our doubles play,” Gebert said. “We have always been stronger in our singles lineup than our doubles lineup, and I think this is what has kept us from getting over the hump and beating the top teams in the past.” 
The Belles will take on North Central on Sunday at 1 
p.m. in Naperville, Ill. 
Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Hummel goes down, will miss tournament 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — One unfortunate step by Robbie Hummel has put Purdue’s Final Four hopes in jeopardy. 
The do-it-all junior forward will miss the remainder of the season after tearing the ante­rior cruciate ligament in his right knee. 
The injury occurred during the first half of No. 3 Purdue’s 59-58 win over Minnesota on Wednesday. Purdue made the announcement after Hummel underwent an MRI examina­tion on Thursday afternoon. 
“Injuries are a part of the game, but this is obviously disappointing on multiple lev­els because of everything Robbie Hummel has done for this program both on and off the court,” Purdue head coach Matt Painter said in a statement. “As he begins his recovery and rehab, Robbie will continue to provide inte­gral leadership as we pursue our team goals down the stretch.” 
Reaching those goals — winning the Big Ten title, gaining a No. 1 seed in the NCAA tournament and reach­ing the Final Four in Indianapolis — now will be more difficult. Hummel ranks second on the team with 15.7 points and 6.9 rebounds per game. 
Hummel’s value always has gone beyond statistics. 
“Rob does something for us offensively and defensively that balances our team,” Painter said last season while Hummel was out with a back injury. “He’s a facilitator. He moves the basketball, he makes the extra pass, he gets the ball inside. ... Some of the basic things that don’t show up in a box score is what we miss.” 
The Boilermakers (24-3, 12­3 Big Ten) are on a 10-game win streak, lead the Big Ten and are enjoying their highest national ranking since 1994. Now, Purdue heads into Sunday’s showdown with Michigan State without one of their stars. 
Purdue struggled last sea­son while Hummel recovered from the back injury. In Purdue’s first 11 Big Ten games last season, the Boilermakers were 6-1 with him and scored 68 points per game while allowing 60. Without him, Purdue was 1-3 and averaged 60 points while surrendering 63. 
When he returned to near full strength at the Big Ten tournament, he lifted the team by averaging 16 points and 9.3 rebounds per game and received the most out­standing player award. 
He had been healthy all sea­son until Wednesday night. Purdue led 26-14 when Hummel drove to the lane and felt his right leg give slightly as he tried to plant with 7:11 left in the half. 
“Obviously, we missed him, because we had a good start to the game,” Painter said after the game. “He gives us a balance to the game. He can go inside or outside, and he’s a good passer. When we lost him, it hurt us a little bit.” 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Ranked teams visit Irish 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish hope to extend their three-game win streak by challenging No. 14 Georgia Tech and No. 13 Tennessee this weekend in home match­es. 
“[Georgia Tech and Tennessee] are in the top 15, had wins at the national indoor [championships] and both teams are known for their competitors,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “We have had good matches with both in the past.” 
The Irish (8-1) beat then-No. 1 Northwestern Sunday in a win that caused them to move up 10 spots in the rankings to No. 7. 
Coming off last weekend’s upset over the Wildcats and a mid-week sweep of No. 17 Ohio State, motivation and high spirits are widespread throughout the Irish lineup, but Louderback said a dose of humility is needed for playing difficult top-15 programs like Tennessee and Georgia Tech. 
“We are going through a tough stretch of teams right now and have to be prepared for each match,” Louderback said. 
The lineups and doubles teams should remain the same for the Irish going into this weekend’s matches. have to be really smart on 
“Our lineup has been work-Saturday.” ing out pretty well, so we’re After facing Falconi, Frilling going to keep it the same for will play No. 7 Caitlin this weekend,” said sopho-Whoriskey from Tennessee. more Kristy Frilling, Notre “[Whoriskey] has a big game Dame’s No. 1 singles player. and is very aggressive,” 
Last weekend, the Irish Frilling said. “I think for both switched their doubles teams of these matches I have to be 
a r o u n d ,  smart and con- 
which helped  sistent, but still  
them win the point in both  “We are going through  aggressive.” Last season,  
m a t c h e s a g a i n s t Northwestern  a tough stretch of teams right now and  the Irish lost to the Yellow Jackets 4-3.  
and Illinois.  have to be prepared  “I think we’re  
“We  have  for each match.”  definitely look- 
gone  9-0  ing to get some  
since we changed our No. 2 and No.  Jay Louderback Irish coach  revenge on S a t u r d a y , ” Frilling said.  

3 doubles pairings, ” Louderback said. “I have been very happy with how they have played as teams.” 
Frilling is still undefeated nine matches into the season and is ranked No. 23 in the NCAA. She will be facing the toughest competition she has seen so far this season Saturday in Georgia Tech’s Irina Falconi, the top-ranked women’s player in the country. 
“I went to France with her in December and we were on the same team so I got to watch her play a bit,” Frilling said. “She’s a crafty player so I’ll In practice the 
Irish have been 
working on maintaining the success they have had recently. 
“Since we’ve been playing so many matches in a short amount of time we’re really just working on staying in shape and making sure our bodies are fit and healthy for every match,” Frilling said. 
The Irish will play Georgia Tech Saturday at 11 a.m. and Tennessee Sunday at 10 a.m. at Notre Dame’s Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
MEN’S LACROSSE 
No. 3 ND looks to stay hot against Penn State 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
The No. 3 Irish will look to avoid a letdown after beating then-No. 2 Duke 11-7 to start the season as they take on Penn State Sunday in the team’s home open­er. 
Irish coach Kevin Corrigan says the team is buzzing with anticipa­tion and excitement for the start of the home slate. 
“It’s always exciting to start at home,” Corrigan said. “Not only do you get to play in front of friends and classmates, but I think the players appreciate not having to worry about the chaos and uncertainty of travel.” 
The team has done its part to drum up a lot of excitement on campus for the start of its home slate. After besting Duke on the road to begin the season, the Irish (1-0) jumped from No. 9 to No. 3 in the U.S. Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association poll and generated their fair share of buzz in the lacrosse world. 
Corrigan said his players won’t let the success go to their heads, though, as they take on a Penn State team that stumbled to a 24­17 loss to open the season against Robert Morris. 
“It’s as simple as this,” Corrigan said. “If they beat us, we’re both 1-1. So there’s no extra credit for the win last week. Obviously we’re excited to have it, but it’s a long season and we have to go out there and execute this weekend.” 
Despite their loss to Robert Morris, Penn State offers a signifi­cant challenge, boasting a young, athletic squad. In the opener, sophomore Matthew Mackrides scored five goals and freshman Billy Gribbin added four of his own. 
Corrigan focused his team in practice this week on ironing out some flaws shown in the Duke game as well as preparing for Penn State’s attack. 
“It’s so early in the year, at this point you usually worry more about yourselves than you do about the opponent,” Corrigan said. “We’re looking at improving our decision making in the half-field as well as our transition game. But we’re also trying to prepare for the style of the game [Penn State] is going to bring. They’re very athletic, and play very hard. Their style of full-field play is not unlike what we play but they present some challenges because they’re so athletic.” 
The Irish and the Nittany Lions will square off at 1 p.m. Sunday in the Loftus Sports Center. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

MEN’S TENNIS 
Team to face three opponents 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
No. 31 Notre Dame will have a busy weekend, as the Irish host Michigan State Saturday before a home doubleheader with Wisconsin and Toledo Sunday. 
“Each of these opponents bring something special to the table,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
The Irish (3-5) return to their home courts this weekend after playing their last five matches on the road. Notre Dame was most recently defeated 4-3 by No. 26 Washington in Seattle on Feb. 20. The Huskies were Notre Dame’s seventh ranked opponent in eight matches — four of which were decided by one point. 
“We are really excited to have the opportunity to compete at home this weekend,” Bayliss said. “It will be a challenge to play three matches in two days, but we feel that we are ready and want to show how much we have improved in several areas.” 
Washington gained an early lead by winning all three of the doubles matches and the points at singles Nos. 1, 4 and 5. The Irish got on the board at Nos. 2, 3 and 6 singles. 
This weekend, the Irish will look to continue their series leads over the Spartans, Badgers and Rockets. 
The Irish lead the all-time series against Michigan State 46-32 and have won the last 20 meetings between the teams dating back to 1989. Under Bayliss, Notre Dame holds a 19-1 record, last dropping a home match to Michigan State 5-4 in 1985. The Spartans are 7-3 this season, going 5-1 in their last six matches. 
“Michigan State graduated their top two players from last year’s team, but have landed a terrific freshman in Dennis Bogatov from Chicago, someone we recruited last year,” Bayliss said. “He gives them punch in the mid-lineup and is a tal­ented shot-maker and the Illinois state high school champion from last year. Ronnie Huliwitz plays at No. 1 and is a tough out. He makes very few mistakes. Austin Brooks is at No. 2 and features a strong fore­hand and great quickness.” 
Similarly, the Irish lead the series with Wisconsin, 47-16, and have won 17 of the last 19 meetings. But the Badgers took both meetings between the teams last season. 
“Wisconsin has spent time in the top 25 this year and has great strength in the top of their lineup,” Bayliss said. “Moritz Bauman is from Germany and beat us twice last year, downing Brett Helgeson in straight sets at the Blue Gray National Classic. He is a lefty with a great backhand and serve and has extraordinary court presence. He is ranked No. 7 in the country. Marek Michalika plays No. 2 and is almost as tough. They will be our biggest challenge of the weekend.” 
Notre Dame and Toledo have also met numerous times, with the Irish holding a 24-2 edge on the Rockets. 
Bayliss has led his team to a 6-0 record over Toledo, and will look to continue that in their third match of the weekend Sunday. The Rockets enter the match with a 6-6 record. 
“Toledo finished third in the MAC in 2009 and has a veteran presence at the top of their lineup featuring several international players,” Bayliss said. “It will be a challenge to take them on almost immediately after playing what is likely to be an emotional match with Wisconsin. This will be a physical challenge, but we have trained hard this year and believe we can handle it.” 
The Irish will face Michigan State Saturday at 3 p.m., Wisconsin at Sunday at 2 p.m. and Toledo Sunday at 6 p.m. All matches will be played in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
“Certainly we will try to take advantage of our depth and keep fresh players coming in the three match, 30-hour period,” Bayliss said. “We have experimented with some changes in our doubles lineup and will see how any of the new combinations perform. We feel we have 10 guys who can play pretty good singles and another couple who add punch to our doubles. 
“We have lost three matches 4-3 so far and all were against teams with top 20 resumes or expecta­tions. Coming close is not the goal, so we hope to get the chance to fin­ish off another with the score at 3­3.” 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Bellesendtourneywith loss to No. 11 Calvin 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s hung with No. 11 Calvin early but could not keep pace with the Knights’ record-setting shooting and fell 86-70 in the semifinals of the MIAA tournament Thursday. The loss effectively ended the Belles’ season, barring a surprise at-large selection for the NCAA Tournament. 
The Belles (15-12, 9-7) kept the contest close during the first half, coming within one point of Calvin (23-4, 14-2) with six minutes left in the period. To do so, Saint Mary’s forced turnovers on the defensive end and turned them into points with athletic plays. 
From that point, however, the Knights turned on the after­burners and took a 16-point lead into the intermission. Halftime did not slow Calvin down at all, as the Belles fell behind by as many as 33 points before the Knight reserves entered the game and the Belles were able to cut the lead back down to 16. 
Calvin’s post players provided much of the offense in the game. Freshman forward Carissa VerKaik had 19 points and nine rebounds, setting a single-season school record for points. 
Senior forward Brook VanEck added 14 points and freshman forward Allison Wolffis scored 12 points off the bench. 
The Knights’ offensive per­formance set an MIAA tourna­ment record. Their 38 field goals surpassed the previous best of 37 set by Albion in 1996. In addition, Calvin’s .585 shoot­ing performance fell just shy of setting another tournament record, a .588 rate set by Calvin in 1994. 
Saint Mary’s senior forward Anna Kammrath posted 18 points and seven rebounds in what was likely her last appear­ance for the Belles, while soph­omore forward Kelley Murphy chipped in 14 points and four rebounds of her own despite the Knights’ inside presence. Both forwards fouled out, how­ever, leaving Saint Mary’s vul­nerable in the post, and Calvin took full advantage en route to a victory. 
With the loss, it is all but cer­tain that the Belles’ season is over. Calvin will move on to the conference finals to face top-10 rival Hope for the MIAA cham­pionship. 
Contact Allen Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


Gody 
continued from page 24 
games with a bone bruise in his knee. 
The Hoyas have been incon­sistent lately, dropping contests at Rutgers and at home to Syracuse, but rebounding Tuesday with a comeback win on the road against Louisville. Georgetown has been impres­sive but unpredictable this sea­son, with huge wins at home against top teams like Duke and Villanova and bad losses to Rutgers and Old Dominion. 
The Irish, who have struggled with depth and size under the basket without Harangody, will face a huge challenge in Hoyas sophomore center Greg Monroe. At 6-foot-11, Monroe is averaging 15.7 points and 9.7 rebounds per game and has also displayed passing skills out of double-teams. 
Junior guard Austin Freeman leads the Georgetown offense with 17.5 points per game and gives the Hoyas a strong inside-outside game. Junior guard Chris Wright is third on the team averaging 14 points per contest. 
Junior forward Tyrone Nash said the team will need to con­tinue to respond positively to pressure to win games down the stretch. 
“We need that sense of urgency we played with [against Pittsburgh]. We just want to finish it,” Nash said. “We want to go in with that same mentality we had against Louisville and [Pittsburgh].” 
The one bright side to the matchup against the Hoyas may be that the two teams share a common problem — lack of depth. Like the Irish, Georgetown is unlikely to play more than seven or eight play­ers in the contest, which could result in fatigue for both teams down the stretch. 
Notre Dame will face the Hoyas after one of its best per­formances of the season against Pittsburgh. Junior forward Tim Abromaitis had 17 points to the lead the team, but four Irish players scored at least 13 points. 
While Notre Dame was click­ing offensively, especially in its shooting from the perimeter, it was the defensive effort that may have been most impres­sive. The Irish held the Panthers to 53 points and were able to keep them in check without fouling, sending Pittsburgh to the free-throw line only seven times. 
Senior point guard Tory Jackson said carrying the momentum from the win into a hostile environment will be key. 
“It gets rowdy there, it gets loud and a team like that, they can make room,” Jackson said. “But we’ve just got to be poised, be smart on offense and be great on defense.” 
After facing the Hoyas, the final games of the regular sea­son do not get any easier for Notre Dame, who will then face resurgent Connecticut at home before closing with Marquette on the road. 
Despite the daunting tasks ahead of them, Jackson said the team remains confident in its ability to compete. 
“We believe in ourselves and we know we can play better than what we’ve been playing,” Jackson said. “We believe.” 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

Schrage 
continued from page 24 
We did this last year down there, and right now we just want to beat Illinois and we’ll move on from there. We’ve set a benchmark with how we played against Mississippi Valley. Now we’re going against better competition, we have to get better.” 
The Irish offense erupted to the tune of 39 runs in three games against the Delta Devils, a promising sign for a lineup that has been limited to hitting in the batting cages for the better part of the off­season. Senior first basemen Casey Martin was named Big East Player of the Week after batting .500 with two home runs and seven RBIs over the weekend. 
“He’s a senior and I think he plays with a lot of confi­dence,” Schrage said. “It’s kind of funny, out of all our hitters hitting in the cage live, he was probably struggling the most. Sometimes you get outside and the ball looks big­ger. He’ll tell you, his first hit was a swinging bunt, but it’s a base hit, and as a hitter that gives you confidence.” 
Like Schrage, Martin attrib­utes the team’s offensive suc­cess to playing outdoors for the first time all season. Although the Big Ten pitching staffs will be bringing more heat, Martin said he expects a solid plate approach to lead to the same results. 
“I’m glad I could contribute and help the team win a few games down there. I think everybody on the team was a little bit anxious to get outside and see some pitches live,” Martin said. “Obviously there will be small adjustments because of the new pitching staff we’re looking at. Everybody’s having good at bats, and I think we’ll be fine.” 
While the offense appears to be operating in midseason form, Schrage said the pitch­ers will still be running on a pitch count this early in the season. Irish ace junior Cole Johnson will take the rubber for Game 1, followed by jun­ior Brian Dupra and senior Eric Maust in Games 2 and 3, respectively. 
“We got some tough lineups to face,” Schrage said. “Illinois returns five really good hitters in their lineup. Ohio State, one through nine, is a veteran club. This week­end, we’re going to have to be a little bit more finesse. We’re facing some really good fast­ball hitting teams, so it’s imperative for Cole and Brian to get their changeups and breaking balls over.” 
The Irish take the field against Illinois on Friday at 
4:30 p.m., against Ohio State on Saturday at 4 p.m. and against Penn State on Sunday at 10 a.m. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

ourselves for not just the Big East tournament but for the 
Road 
continued from page 24 
the whole team got a nice shot of confidence.” 
The win marked the return of senior guard Lindsay Schrader, who had been out due to a sprained left ankle. She made her presence felt immediately, scoring 17 points and grabbing six rebounds in 20 minutes of play. McGraw said Schrader’s playing time will still be limited Saturday. 
“She’s going to be playing more I think,” she said. “I haven’t spoken with the trainer, I don’t know how many minutes she’s allowed. I’m hoping for more. I think NCAA Tournament,” McGraw said. “We’ve done a great job all year of taking care of what we need to do and now we’re com­ing down the stretch.” 
The Irish will tip off against Seton Hall at 2 p.m. Saturday at the Walsh Gymnasium in South Orange, N.J. 
Note: 
u Senior captain Ashley Barlow is one of 30 midseason candidates for the 2010 Naismith Trophy award, the Atlanta Tipoff Club announced Thursday. The Trophy is given to the women’s basketball player of the year and will be awarded in April at the NCAA Final Four in 
San Antonio. 
Barlow aver­
ages 11.7 points, 

“We’ve done a great 
she’ll play at 5.3 rebounds, 2.4 least as much.” job all year of taking assists and 2.5 
Seton Hall steals per game. 
care of what we need
has lost its last Her 67 steals this 
to do and now we’re
five games and season make her has just one coming down the just the third conference vic-Irish player to 
stretch.” 
tory, a Jan. 30 grab 60 steals in win over each of her four Villanova. Muffet McGraw seasons. The 
The Pirates Irish coach other two were 
are led by guard Ebonie Williams and forward Kandice Green, who each average 13 points per game. 
Notre Dame is currently fourth in the Big East standings and could move up with a win this weekend. They have already clinched a two-round bye for the Big East tournament, which begins March 8. 
“Heading into the last two games we’re trying to position Irish assistant 
coach Niele Ivey 
(1997-2001) and current Penn State head coach Coquese Washington (1988-93). 
“She’s done so many great things for us. … I think all year long, we need a big play, Ashley Barlow’s going to make it,” McGraw said. “It’s a great honor for her to be mentioned as one of the top players in the country.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 
Friday, February 26, 2010 page 24 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Last, then first 
Irish to face Seton Hall before No. 1 UConn 
By LAURA MYERS  
Sports Writer  
No. 7 Notre Dame will travel  
to South Orange, N.J., to take on  
Seton Hall Saturday in the  
team’s final regular-season road  
game.  
The game against the Pirates  
(9-18, 1-13 Big East), who are  
currently last in the conference,  
comes two days before the Irish  
face No. 1 Connecticut at home.  
“It’s all the same for us in  
terms of every game is impor­ 
tant,” Irish coach Muffet  
McGraw said. “We’ve really got  
to come in with a lot of focus  
and be ready for whatever Seton  
Hall throws our way.”  
Notre Dame has lost its last  
two road games, against then- 
No. 22 St. John’s and then-No.  
12 Georgetown, but is coming  
off of an 82-67 home win  
Tuesday over Marquette.  
“It was great to get us back on  
track,” McGraw said. “I think see ROAD/page 22  SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Senior guard Ashley Barlow passes the ball during Notre Dame’s 90-66 win over DePaul on Feb. 14. Barlow and the Irish will travel to Seton Hall Saturday to take on the Pirates.  

BASEBALL 
Big Ten to provide challenge 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame rose to the occasion in its first test of the season, routing Mississippi Valley State for the first sea­son-opening three-game road sweep in program history. The competition will suddenly get stronger, though, as the Irish travel to Florida for the Big Ten/Big East Challenge. 
Notre Dame (3-0) will face three of the Big Ten’s best in Illinois, Ohio State (3-0) and Penn State in the three-day tournament. Irish coach Dave Schrage says his team will have to play up to the higher competition if they hope to maintain their success on the road. 
“It’s a great challenge for us,” Schrage said. “Right now we’re just focusing on Illinois. 
see SCHRAGE/page 21 

ND SOFTBALL 
Team looks to pick up more wins at Cavalier Invitational 
cial game of the season,” junior Heather Johnson and first base-individual people,” Valdivia said. Charlottesville, Va., but weather 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
pitcher Jody Valdivia said. “We men Christine Lux. With two tournaments already caused a transfer to Christopher 
Sports Writer 
are looking to take Notre Dame “We just need to put the ball under their belt, the Irish will Newport University in Newport softball further than it has ever hard on the ground to make have the experience advantage News, Va. 
Last weekend the Irish swept gotten in the past and our things happen,” Johnson said. over opponents George The Irish face George the Southern Miss Mizuno Classic, approach is to take it game by Losing five seniors at the end of Washington, who will play for the Washington at 11:30 a.m. and and this weekend they are looking game.” the 2009 season forced the Irish first time this weekend, and Virginia at 2 p.m. Friday, followed to do the exact same thing at The Irish (4-4) look to Valdivia, to make some alterations, but a Virginia (2-5). by George Washington at 10 a.m. Virginia’s Cavalier Invitational. whose contribution to the tourna-strong group of freshmen filled in “I think this weekend we are and Virginia at 12:30 p.m. 
“Obviously this weekend in ment secured her the title of Big the ranks. Although this team is a striving to get that game where Saturday. Depending on these Virginia our team is looking to East Pitcher of the week, to add young one, it does not lacking skill we are running on all cylinders. outcomes, the Irish may play one pick up four more wins. This sea-leadership from the mound. or unity. We need to have pitching, defense or two games Sunday. son our focus has been to take Leading the team at the plate are “This year, as opposed to the and hitting to all,” Johnson said. each game one at a time and Notre Dame’s three seniors: past, I feel the entire team has This weekend’s tournament Contact Megan Finneran at approach it as if it is the most cru-catcher Alexia Clay, infielder bonded together more so than was initially planned for mfnnera@nd.edu 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Road skid next big hurdle 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish ended their recent skid Wednesday with a big win over No. 16 Pittsburgh but will have to break another losing streak on the road Saturday at No. 13 Georgetown. 
Notre Dame had lost three straight and seven of its last 10 games before the 68-53 win over the Panthers. Against the Hoyas, the Irish will be looking for their first road win since a one-point victory at South Florida on Jan. 5. 
Notre Dame will travel to Georgetown with senior for­ward Luke Harangody’s injury status still in doubt. The cap­tain has missed the past three 
see GODY/page 21 

HOCKEY 
ND opens series with shutout loss on road 
Observer Staff Report 
The Irish fell to Michigan 4-0 Thursday night in the first of a two-game series. 
Notre Dame managed 20 shots on goal, but Wolverine goalkeepers turned all 20 away. 
Irish freshman goalie Mike Johnson saved 23 shots, but Michigan (19-16-1, 14-12-1-0 CCHA) sent two pucks into the back of the net in each of the first and third periods. 
Wolverines Matt Rust and Chad Langlais scored in the first period, and Brian Lebler and Chris Summers cemented the game with a goal apiece in the third. On the defensive end for Michigan, goaltender Shawn Hunwick stopped 14 shots, and once the Wolverines were up three goals, Bryan Hogan stepped into the goal and stopped six shots in 11 minutes. 
Sophomore wing Richard Ryan had the most chances for the Irish (12-15-8, 8-12-7-2) as he managed three shots on goal. Ryan and the Irish opened the game aggressively, taking 11 shots in the first period, compared to seven by Michigan, but in the next two periods Notre Dame was out-shot 20-9. 
The two teams complete their home-and-home series Saturday at 7:05 p.m. This will be the final game for both teams before the CCHA Tournament begins on March 5. 




