the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


New department proposed 

By JOHN TIERNEY 
News Writer 
The College of Science will propose the creation of a new Department of Applied and Computational Mathematics and Statistics (DACMS) at Thursday’s Academic Council meeting. 
The proposed department was approved by the College of Science Council on Oct. 26 and would be formally estab­lished gradually over the course of the next three years, if approved by the Academic Council. 
The department’s role, which is outlined in a pro­posal the College submitted to members of the Academic Council, would be focused on both research and education. 
“[Establishing the depart­ment] represents the most cost-effective way to bring to Notre Dame the critically important field of statistics, while at the same time cre­ating a platform for expan­sion of research and educa­tion in applied and computa­tional mathematics,” the proposal said. 

DACMS would include an undergraduate degree pro­gram awarding students with a Bachelor of Science degree in applied and com­putational mathematics and statistics, according to the proposal. This proposed degree program has been approved by the College’s Undergraduate Studies Committee, and will next be considered by the College Council. 
If approved, the depart­ment would begin recruiting students currently enrolled in the First Year of Studies to join the program. 
The new department will also sponsor masters and doctoral degrees, according to the proposal. The College is currently working to design a “professional mas­ter’s degree” in applied and computational mathematics and statistics. 

College receives service honor 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
With 80 percent of students participating in community serv­ice prior to graduating, Saint Mary’s was nationally recog­nized as a member of the 2009 President’s Higher Education Community Service Honor Roll on Feb. 25, a College press release said. 
The Honor Roll is the highest achievement that a college or university can accomplish for its dedication to community service. The College has received the award in each of the past four years, said Carrie Call, director of the Office of Civic and Social Engagement (OCSE). 
“This is a national designation awarded yearly to institutions of higher education that meet cer­tain requirements for communi­ty engagement and volunteer service,” Call said. “We gained it by the extensive involvement of our students.” 
Call said OCSE hopes to con­tinue the tradition of service on campus by offering a variety of opportunities for student engagement at many different levels within the community. 
“The opportunities have grown in the past years for our students and we want to contin­ue that,” Call said. 
Call said the College believes it is important for students to par­ticipate in service. 
“It helps students come to understand what their passions and what they want to do in their lives,” she said. “Another important reason is that it gives us the opportunity to give some­thing back to our communities. Catholic Social Teaching tells us that we are ‘all really responsi­ble for all’ and so our service in the community allows us to act out that sense of responsibility and solidarity.” 
Call said she was excited about the award because it reflects the 
see SERVICE/page 6 


Students prepare for St. Patrick’s celebrations 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students will celebrate their Irish heritage 
— real or invented — this St. Patrick’s Day. 
Many students, like sopho­more Ashley Amarosa, have been looking forward to this day for weeks. 
“I’ve definitely planned my entire day around celebrating St. Patrick’s Day. I just hope my classes don’t interfere,” Amarosa said. 
Senior Michelle Perone said she has thought about what her St. Patrick’s Day plans will be since Saturday. 
“Right when Spring Break ended, my priorities turned to figuring out St. Patrick’s Day plans. There’s so much to do,” Perone said. “I’ll have to deco­rate my apartment for when I have people over, and I need to buy supplies and food and stuff like that. I’m pretty excited about it. It’s going to be a good day.” 
see HOLIDAY/page 6 
The department will ini­tially consist of seven faculty members already at the University, Gregory Crawford, dean of the College of Science, said in the proposal. 
Research and education in the proposed department will be interdisciplinary in focus and will recruit profes­sors who “engage in both interdisciplinary research and methodological develop­ment, which pushes the fron­tier of knowledge in applied and computational mathe­matics or statistics,” the pro­posal said. 
DACMS is envisioned as a resource for professors doing research in other dis­ciplines. Statistics is used in research in all four colleges, and DACMS “will create a formal consulting service in both statistics and applied and computational mathe­matics,” the proposal said. 
The department will help 
see COUNCIL/page 4 



Faculty members talk homosexuality 

By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
Four Notre Dame faculty members from different fields of study responded to the recent Mobile Party comic controversy and addressed campus attitudes toward homosexuality in a discussion titled “Gay Penguins and ‘No Homo,’” held Tuesday in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. 
“Many among the faculty were as upset as students and staff about the cartoon earlier this year,” professor of American Studies Heidi Ardizzone said. “We are not done talking about issues of humor, homophobia and gen­der identity. We are here to share our ideas and knowl­edge.” 
Assistant professor of psy­chology Michelle Wirth opened the panel discussion with an overview of biopsychology and the natural causes of sexual orientation. 
“Our sexual orientation is a feature of our brains,” Wirth said. “Our brain is changing all the time as we learn things.” 
Wirth detailed the brain’s involvement in sexual orienta­tion, citing the influence of certain hormones in a baby’s brain development. 
“Exposure to androgens like testosterone during brain 
see FACULTY/page 9 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Marketing Symposium page 3  Men’s lacrosse opens stadium page 24  St. Patrick’s Day tidbits page 13  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 17, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Bring on the brackets 
It’s illegal to gamble on sports. Such is fact. 
That aside, allow me to encourage you to gamble on sports, with The Observer’s help. After all, it is March, the month where companies across the country lose millions of dollars and teachers lose patience, as people like me elevate col­lege basketball games between Temple and Cornell above their jobs, classes and even significant oth-Douglas Farmer ers. 

This year The 

Sports Editor
Observer is proud to hold a March Madness pool distinctly for you — our readers, specifically you Notre Dame stu­dents and alumni. 
Just think, in a campus-wide pool, fin­ishing in the top half will earn you brag­ging rights over 50 percent of the people you see on the quad. Suddenly 50 percent of those awkward encounters could be tri­umphant awkward encounters. 
But why settle there? Win the whole thing! Finish first! I challenge you. 
Yes, I hereby challenge ALL of you to do better than each and every member of The Observer Sports department. We walk around talking like we know sports better than the rest of you — I know I do — so how about you put us in our place? I’m looking at you Scholastic, and you soulless business majors, and you arrogant profes­sors who constantly belittle sports journal­ism. Prove that anybody can do it! 
Or, simply prove to your boyfriend that he spends too much time watching sports by showing him you know college basket­ball better than he does. Or prove to your friends that you really are smartest at the things that count, even if your GPA might be the lowest in your dorm. 
How do you get into the pool? It’s simple: 
http://apps.facebook.com/bracket/group/ detail/5494241. 
Or go to Facebook and find the “Observer Sports” page. Or check The Casual Observer, the sports blog on the newspaper Web site, ndsmcobserver.com. 
In fact, throughout the whole tourna­ment, starting last night, there will be updates and analysis on the pool and the tournament on The Casual Observer. The best part is, you can comment on all of this and more on the blog and on Facebook. Let your voice, and your picks, be heard. 
So if for no other reason than campus-wide respect, join the pool. Your bracket needs to be finished before your 11 a.m. Economics class ends Thursday. Invite your boyfriend, your girlfriend, your entire dorm, your parents, your little brother in high school. You can gain bragging rights over all of them. 
And if you win, you’ll also receive a gim­mick Observer prize. Most likely whatever old media guides I can find in the office quickest, or, if interested, perhaps a mock Observer front page, completely about you and your victory, will show up in your mailbox. 
Not many people can say the front page of a newspaper was all about them. You could say that, but first, you’ll have to join The Observer March Madness pool. Then fill out your bracket before noon Thursday. 
Best of luck. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHEN DO YOUR ST. PATRICK’S DAY FESTIVITIES BEGIN? 






Jazmin Hall  Killian O’Brien  Brandy Mader  Paul Capretta  Matthew Corcoran  Victoria Deneke  
freshman  sophomore  sophomore  freshman  junior  freshman  
Lyons  Keenan  Badin  Morrissey  Keenan  Breen-Phillips  
“When practice  “6:30 ... at  “As soon as I  “Probably not  “Probably like  “Tomorrow  
is done at six.”  night.”  wake up!”  until around  eight ... in the  night at the  
six.”  morning!”  Shamrock!”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Members of the Notre Dame Marching Band inspire cheering fans last week as the men’s basketball team traveled to Madison Square Garden for the Big East tournament in New York City. 
OFFBEAT 
Japanese singles enroll in marriage school 
TOKYO — In search of Mr. or Mrs. Right, dozens of Japanese are attending a newly launched school in Tokyo that aims to turn them into marriage materi­al. 
The Infini school offers various classes for wannabe brides and grooms at a time when many people in Japan are either shunning the institu­tion of marriage or are finding it very difficult to hook up with a partner. 
The school, which is open to men and women, teaches students how to talk, walk and present themselves ele­gantly in a bid to capture the hearts and minds of prospective partners and their parents, who are often a major obstacle to successful unions. 
Dentist allegedly used paper clips in root canals 
FALL RIVER, Mass. — A former Massachusetts den­tist is accused of placing paper clips instead of stain­less steel posts inside the teeth of root canal patients while billing Medicaid for the more expensive parts. 
The state attorney gener­al announced Tuesday that a grand jury indicted for­mer Fall River dentist Michael Clair last week. The charges include assault and battery, larce­ny, submitting false claims to Medicaid and illegally prescribing drugs. 
Prosecutors say Clair was suspended by Medicaid in 2002. He allegedly hired other dentists for his clinic and filed claims under their numbers between August 2003 and June 2005. He’s also accused of illegally prescribing drugs to staffers who returned medications to him. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Thursday Friday 

IN BRIEF 
An exhibit titled “All Art is Propaganda” will open at 8 
a.m.  today  in  the  Special  
Collections  Room  102 of  
Hesburgh Library.  

“Microstructural Control to Achieve High Performance MFI Type Zeolite Inorganic Membranes” will be discussed today in Room 129 of DeBartolo Hall. The seminar will begin at 8:15 a.m. 
Photographs from “Caroline Chiu: Polaroids as Chinese Ink Painting” will be dis­played in the Milly and Fritz Kaeser Mestrovic Studio Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art. The exhibit will open at 10 a.m. today. 
“Yin Yu Tang: A Chinese Home” will be on exhibit in the Scholz Family Works on Paper Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art today at 10 a.m. 
Daily Mass will be celebrat­ed at 11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. today in the Basilica of Sacred Heart. 
The Department of Physics will host “Applying Nuclear Physics to Address Challenges in National Security” today in Room 118 of Nieuwland Science. The colloquium will begin at 4 p.m. 
The Snite Museum of Art and Creative Writing Program will sponsor a reading and reception with Ricardo Pau-Llosa in the Hammes Bookstore at 5 p.m. tonight. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Saturday Sunday 

Atlanta 55 / 41 Boston 59 / 40 Chicago 59 / 40 Denver 64 / 41 Houston 71 / 46 Los Angeles 80 / 53 Minneapolis 60 / 38 New York 63 / 43 Philadelphia 66 / 42 Phoenix 82 / 56 Seattle 54 / 34 St. Louis 63 / 39 Tampa 68 / 50 Washington 66 / 46 

Wednesday, March 17, 2010 The Observer  NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Reps. discuss football ticket policy for home, road games 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) discussed proposed changes to the Notre Dame football student seating and ticket procedures while also reviewing a proposed Student Senate resolution requesting student involvement in the Commencement speaker selection process at its meeting Tuesday. 
Junior Kevin Doyle, the student government representative to the athletic department, said he has worked with the department on an issue concerning graduate stu­dent seating at home football games. 
Under the current policy, University graduate students are seated between the sophomore and junior classes at games. Both Doyle and student body president Grant Schmidt said concerns have been expressed about this seating arrangement. 
“We believe that the undergrad­uate students are the most pas­sionate ones at the games,” Doyle said. “However, there is no stan­dard to go off of. It varies from school to school.” 
Schmidt said the focus should be on maintaining the unity of the undergraduates. 
“The first priority should be that all the undergraduate students are together,” he said. 
Schmidt said student govern­ment would continue to work with the athletic department about potentially changing the seating arrangements at home football games. 
Schmidt brought up other ongo­ing discussions with the athletic department concerning the away football game ticket lottery. He said the current process is one student government is looking at improving. 
“I would like to see a lottery that is simple,” Doyle said. “We want to explore options that make the whole thing as fair and as effec­tive as possible.” 
Schmidt said under NCAA regu­lations, the Notre Dame student body is allocated a maximum of 300 tickets to each away football game. Student Union Board (SUB) is responsible for judging how many of those tickets they should purchase in order to sell to the students. 
“SUB takes a risk every time they do this,” Schmidt said. “If they buy all 300 tickets and only sell 200, they are obviously taking a huge hit financially.” 
Schmidt asked COR members for suggestions to see what could be done to make the lottery an easier process so Notre Dame stu­dents feel more inclined to buy tickets to away football games. 
“We’ve suggested allowing the lotteries to occur earlier,” Doyle said. “That makes it easier for stu­dents to get their travel plans together.” 
The majority of COR members agreed allowing students to par­ticipate in the ticket lottery earlier would not only increase ticket sales, but also make the entire process easier. 
Schmidt brought to COR’s atten­tion a proposed resolution cur­rently under review in Student Senate. The resolution asks the University to include a student body representative in the selec­tion process of the commence­ment speaker. The current process asks for no student input. 
Schmidt said the resolution would ask the selection committee to include a student body repre­sentative for input on the potential speakers. He said the representa­tive would most likely be either the student body president or the senior class president. 
“There are some concerns involving confidentiality issues, but we think that a student repre­sentative should have a part in this process,” he said. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 

MBA Marketing Club to host Symposium 

graduate students as well. We also tion, Johnson said. win $6,000 in prizes, Johnson advertising. The company does a 
By LIZ O’DONNELL 
used to charge admission and this “A couple of the programmers, said. lot of tracking for Facebook adver-
News Writer 
year we actually have sponsorship designers and salesmen will come “Students are competing for a tising.” from DIF Solutions, which part-in and give registered teams a $3,000 grand prize, and there is a Also attending will be represen-

The MBA Marketing Club will ners with big consulting compa-brief demo of what the application special prize for $1,000 prize for tatives from major corporations sponsor the 4th annual Marketing nies.” can do and examples of how other the best undergraduate team,” he including MTV and Navteq. They Symposium March 25-26 at the Johnson said the sponsorship companies have used it. Teams said. will be on hand to participate in Mendoza College of Business. enables students to register online will have a week to come up with The first round of competition keynote lectures and panel discus-
The Symposium will emphasize for free to attend lectures as well a way to take this application and will take place on March 25, the sions. the growing importance and impli-as enjoy free food throughout the bring it to market,” Johnson said. first day of the Symposium, and Johnson said the Symposium cation of the use of social media in Symposium. The competition is open to stu-the final round will occur the fol-usually has a turnout of 150 peo­the modern business environment. Listed among events for the dents from any academic back-lowing day. ple, but he expects more this year 
Club president Jack Johnson Symposium include an opening ground, and students are encour-Aside from the competition, because of the inclusion of under-said the event will be a bit differ-reception at Legends as well as a aged to draw on their experience executives from several businesses graduates. ent this year because it is free and number of guest speakers and a to draft a short proposal solving a will be on hand to discuss with “If you want to network, meet open to undergraduates. Web Case 2.0 competition, which specific issue. students their use of the social some Domers and get free food on 
“We’ve been doing Symposium is open to both MBA candidates Teams of three to five students media. Friday, then you should register for four years and in the past it and undergraduates. are encouraged to register by “Brandon Solano of Domino’s for the Symposium,” he said. “It’s always was focused toward MBA The competition is an opportuni-today. A panel of judges will assess will come in and speak, as well as also a bonus that it’s free thanks to students,” he said. “This year we ty for students to propose solutions the submitted proposals, and the bring free pizza and lava cakes for the sponsorship, so we don’t have were able to open it up to under-to a real-world business applica-chosen top teams have a chance to everyone,” Johnson said. “The to charge the students.” 
president of Nielsen Online, Jonathan Carson, will speak about Contact Liz O’Donnell at how people use social media for eodonne@nd.edu 
College hosts lecture on race in the media 
again,” Crossley said. 
By CAROLYNN SMITH 
A current survey about the 
News Writer 
racial society in the media showed many people still believe there is 
Media expert Callie Crossley not enough diversity in the news-discussed the ways people of color room, and there is still a lack of have been portrayed in the media acceptable coverage of racial during her lecture “Race and issues. Media: Everything Old is New “Every time we see it, it feels like Again” at Saint Mary’s on Tuesday a slap in the face,” Crossley said. night. Crossley said she hopes more 
“Media representations of peo-change will come in future genera­ple of color have not changed tions, but she is aware action though out the years,” said needs to be taken now. Crossley, the Woodrow Wilson “We need to learn to challenge and Visiting Fellow. “This is how to cre-question what we see. That is why ate a single story about a group of I’m doing what I’m doing,” people, to show those people as Crossley said. “We need to speak one thing and then show that one up in the moment.” thing over and over again.” Crossley is an award-winning 
Crossley hosts a new daily talk broadcast journalist, documentary show on WGBH-FM Radio, “The filmmaker and television and radio Callie Crossley Show.” The show commentator, and she offers regu­covers topics such as current lar commentary on a number of events, local happenings, arts and television programs. culture. Crossley produced “Eyes on the 
“I got into this business to make Prize: America’s Civil Rights Year,” a difference. My whole career has the critically acclaimed documen­been about telling the stories right tary series which earned her an and truthfully,” Crossley said. Oscar nomination and major film 
Crossley shared personal experi-and journalism awards. For the ences she has come across during last eight years, Crossley has her work. She spoke about racism served as program manager for toward her and her co-workers. the Nieman Foundation for 
“Post-racial or not, the racial Journalism at Harvard. stereotypes have not gone away but have been revised for modern Contact Carolynn Smith at times. Everything old is new csmith02@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 17, 2010 
Council 
continued from page 1 
researchers with experiment design, data analysis and sta­tistical modeling. 
Statistics, applied mathe­matics and computation “play an increasingly important role in disci ­plines such as economics, 

sociology and “We would hope that b i o l o g y, ” 
in the future, we 
Crawford said 

would be partners
in the propos­al. rather than [being “They are 
asked to sanction a 
used in the 

decision after the
analysis of eco­nomic indica -fact].” tors, voting patterns and 
Keith Rigby 
resource distri-

Faculty Senate chair 
bution, and 
they have called into question some conclusions in genetics simply by proposing different meth­ods for showing correlation or causal relationships.” 
The department will also have a strong ethical focus consistent with the University’s Catholic charac­ter, Crawford said. Statistics’ “applications to social justice, community, solidarity, com­mon good and ethical deci­
sion -making already indi ­cate the department ’s strong engage­ment in Notre Dame’s Catholic mis ­sion,” he said in the propos­al. 
Concerns about DACMS 
The Faculty Senate asked Crawford in a statement released March 2 to delay present­ing the DACMS proposal to Academic 
Council until he received more input from faculty mem­bers. The Senate did not question Crawford’s assess­ment stating Notre Dame needs to heighten its focus on statistics. 
“The Faculty Senate agrees with the need to increase the footprint of applied mathe­matics, computational mathe­matics, and statistics at Notre Dame,” the statement said. 
“I think everyone agrees that increasing the statistical footprint on campus is a good idea,” said Keith Rigby, chair 
of the Faculty Senate Academic Affairs committee. “The mechanics could’ve been better if we had more time.” 
Rigby said he was specifi­cally concerned with the rela­tionship between DACMS and the existing Department of Mathematics. 
“I could envision course conflicts, particularly if there were a relatively large num­ber of courses that would serve both programs, ” he said. “I also wonder how easi­ly a student could transfer 

students 

“I could envision course conflicts, particularly if there were a relatively large number of courses that would serve both programs. I also wonder how easily a student could transfer between the two departments.” 
between the two departments.” 
Despite the Faculty Senate’s call to delay for­mally establish­ing DACMS, Rigby is not opposed to the new department in principle. 
“Increasing the statistics capability on campus is a good thing,” he said. “We would hope that in the future, we 
would be partners rather than [being asked to sanction a decision after the fact].” 
Student government did not hear about the proposed department until late last month, chief of staff Ryan Brellenthin said. He said the proposal had been discussed in Academic Council commit­tees since last semester, but 

Keith Rigby 
from Crawford Faculty Senate chair until Monday 
do not serve on those commit ­tees. “It seems like there are a cou­ple holes that we could fill very easily if we let the adminis­tration know we want to be involved [in the process of creat­ing a depart ­ment],” Brellenthin said. Because stu ­dent govern ­ment did not receive the for­mal proposal 
evening, 
Brellenthin said he doesn’t have enough infor­mation to make an educated decision for the student body about DACMS. Student gov­ernment does not object in principle to the creation of the new department, he said. 
Brellenthin said he expects Crawford to welcome student involvement in implementing DACMS. 
“He said he’d like to get general student feedback about what they’d like to see in the department,” Brellenthin said. 
Crawford said in an e-mail that he was not available for comment to The Observer this week. 
Contact John Tierney at jtierne1@nd.edu 
Updated computer cluster reopens 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
After several months of plan­ning, renovations and setbacks, the LaFortune Student Center computer cluster, a popular workspace for students, reopened this week. 
Some of the most notable reno­vations to the space include new carpet and color scheme. 
“The new wall colors are calm­ing and less depressing,” sopho­more Carlos Zarazua said. “It should be better for stressful last minute studying and working on projects.” 
LaFortune’s computer cluster had not been updated in 18 years, Brian Burchett, manager of Classroom and Cluster Services for the Office of Information and Technology, said in a Feb. 16 Observer article. In addition to a general remodeling of the outdated room, the layout was overhauled to reflect the transition from students using University-provided communal computers to personal laptops. 
The change meant fewer actu­al computers, allowing for more open workspace, as well as two group study rooms, resulting in a layout more conducive to group work. 
“I really like how it’s so open now. I liked when there were more computers but the open space more than makes up for it,” Zarazua said. “I guess it makes sense, as most people have laptops now anyway.” 
The plans for the project began in spring 2008 but were not funded until recently. The first expected completion date was Feb. 1, and a more recent report indicated students could expect access to the cluster by the first week of March, in time for midterms. 
Delays with some of the mate­rials for the project postponed the finishing of trim work and furniture delivery, pushing back the completion of the cluster sig­nificantly. 
“One of the things that delayed the project was getting the carpet from the manufacturer,” Burchett said. “It wasn’t really the fault of anyone at Notre Dame ... the carpet manufacturer just had a later delivery than we thought.” 
Burchett said students were helpful in the renovation process, and he hopes to bring students in on future projects. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 



World & Nation 
Wednesday, March 17, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Bishops shocked by abuse cases 
BERLIN — The Roman Catholic bishops in Pope Benedict XVI’s native Bavaria sought Tuesday to deal with a sexual abuse scandal whose ever-widening scope has left church leaders baffled. 
“I would not have expected such a multitude of cases,” Bavarian Bishop Ludwig Schick, who is hosting his colleagues’ meeting at Vierzehnheiligen, told Bayerischer Rundfunk Radio. 
He said he was shaken and ashamed of what had taken place within the church. 
“It is bitter and it is hard, but it has to be dealt with,” Schick said. “This festering blister needs to be opened up and dried out in order for it to heal.” 
In Bavaria alone, more than 100 former stu­dents of Catholic institutions have come for­ward with claims of physical or sexual abuse. 
UK speaks with protesting teamsters 
LONDON — Britain’s Unite union said Tuesday that it was in talks with the U.S. International Brotherhood of Teamsters regarding the seven days of strikes it plans against British Airways. 
Unite’s 12,000 cabin crew members are locked in a battle with BA’s management over a pay freeze and changes to working condi­tions. The group has promised a three-day strike beginning Saturday followed later by a four-day walk out. The strike is expected to affect hundreds of thousands of travelers — and Unite has appealed for international help to pressure BA. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Prop 8 verdict could face delay 
SAN FRANCISCO — An attempt by civil rights groups to keep sponsors of California’s same-sex marriage ban from obtaining inter­nal campaign documents could delay a verdict in the federal trial on the constitutionality of Proposition 8, lawyers on both sides said Tuesday. 
Attorneys warned of the possible bottleneck during a hearing where a federal judge was asked to overrule a magistrate who ordered organizations challenging the ban to turn over memos and e-mails to lawyers defending the voter-approved measure. 
“The real burden that is going to be imposed here if your honor affirms the magistrate’s rul­ing is the resolution of these incredibly impor­tant issues is going to be delayed, whether you like it or not,” ACLU lawyer Stephen Bomse told Chief U.S. District Judge Vaughn Walker. 
Lesbian sues high school over prom 
JACKSON — School officials in a rural Mississippi county told a lesbian student to get “guys” to take her and her girlfriend to a high school prom and warned the girls against slow dancing with each other because that could “push people’s buttons,” according to docu­ments filed Tuesday in federal court. 
The American Civil Liberties Union is suing the Itawamba County School District and some officials at Itawamba Agricultural High School on behalf of Constance McMillen, 18, who wanted to escort her girlfriend to the prom and wear a tuxedo. A hearing is scheduled for Monday to hear an ACLU motion that seeks to force the district to hold the April 2 prom it 
LOCAL NEWS 

Gov. asked to act on clean energy 
INDIANAPOLIS — A state senator wants Indiana Gov. Mitch Daniels to ask utility regula­tors to expand rules that could boost the state’s renewable energy industry. 
Republican Sen. James Merritt of Indianapolis asked Daniels in a letter Tuesday to direct the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission to begin work to expand those rules. 
Indiana lawmakers adjourned Saturday with­out revising the state’s limited “net metering” rules that allow only schools and residential customers to get credit for excess power they generate from wind, solar and other clean sources. 
Pharmaceutical depot robbed 
Thieves break in and steal $75 million of prescription medication from Eli Lilly & Co. 
Associated Press  
HARTFORD, Conn. — In  
a Hollywood-style heist,  
thieves cut a hole in the  
roof of a warehouse, rap­ 
pelled inside and scored  
one of the biggest hauls of  
its kind — not diamonds,  
gold bullion or Old World  
art, but about $75 million  
in antidepressants and  
other prescription drugs.  
The pills — stolen from  
the pharmaceutical giant  
Eli Lilly & Co. in quantities  
big enough to fill a tractor- 
trailer — are believed to  
be destined for the black  
market, perhaps overseas.  
“This is like the Brink’s  
pill heist,” said Erik  
Gordon, a University of  
Michigan business profes­ 
sor who studies the health  
care industry. “This one  
will enter the folklore.”  
The thieves apparently  
scaled the brick exterior of  
the warehouse in an indus­ 
trial park in Enfield, a  
town about midway  
between Hartford and  
Springfield, Mass., during  
a blustery rainstorm  
before daybreak Sunday.  
After lowering themselves  
to the floor, they disabled  
the alarms and spent at AP  
least an hour loading pal-Authorities say $75 million worth of prescription drugs were stolen from pharmaceutical  
lets of drugs into a vehicle company Eli Lilly’s regional warehouse in Connecticut.  
at the loading dock,  
authorities said.  the warehouse, he said.  Miss. Those thieves also  they go there, they come  
“Just by the way it  Other pharmaceutical  cut through ceilings and  looking for it. They proba­ 
occurred, it appears that  warehouses have been hit  sometimes used trapeze­ bly were conducting sur­ 
there were several individ­ with similar burglaries in  style rigging to get inside  veillance on that ware- 
uals involved and that it  recent years, but experts  and disable the main and  house for days, if not  
was a very well planned- said the value of the Eli  backup alarms. In some  weeks, before that theft  
out and orchestrated oper- Lilly heist far eclipses any  cases, they sprayed dark  occurred.”  
ation,” Enfield Police Chief  other prescription-drug  paint on the lenses of secu- Burges and Gordon said  
Carl Sferrazza said. “It’s  thefts they have tracked.  rity cameras; in others,  the thieves probably  
not your run-of-the-mill  The thieves could easily  they stole disks in the  already had a buyer lined  
home burglary, that’s for  net $20 million to $25 mil- security recording devices.  up, possibly an online  
sure.”  lion, Gordon said.  Enfield police and the  pharmacy or someone in  
Experts described it as  Enfield police would not  FBI would not comment on  South America or Asia,  
one of the biggest pharma­ say whether the building  whether some of those  where drug regulations  
ceutical heists in history.  had surveillance video or  techniques were also used  are lax. Gordon said it is  
Edward Sagebiel, a  whether employees are  in the Eli Lilly theft.  unlikely the drugs would  
spokesman for  being investigated. The  “The level of sophistica­ end up at a local hospital  
Indianapolis-based Eli  building is unmarked and  tion in these thefts is very  or drugstore chain.  
Lilly, put the wholesale  unprotected by fences.  high,” said Dan Burges,  “The people with a repu­ 
value of the drugs at $75  The FBI was called in.  director of intelligence at  tation to protect, a CVS or  
million and said they  Experts said the heist  F r e i g h t W a t c h  a Target or a Kroger or  
included the antidepres­ shared many traits with  International, a Texas- most hospitals, they don’t  
sants Prozac and Cymbalta  warehouse thefts of phar­ based security company.  want to take any chances,”  
and the anti-psychotic  maceuticals last year near  “These thieves actively tar- he said. “It’s too big a risk.  
Zyprexa. No narcotics or  Richmond, Va., Memphis,  get certain products. They  You’re talking about peo­ 
other painkillers were in  Tenn., and Olive Branch,  find out where they are,  ple’s health.”  

HAITI 
Sexual assaults too common after quake 
infection contracted during the even before the earthquake and fre-
Associated Press 
attack. quently was used as a political 
PORT-AU-PRINCE — When the Women and children as young as 2, weapon in times of upheaval. Both young woman needed to use the toi-already traumatized by the loss of times the first democratically elected let, she went out into the darkened homes and loved ones in the Jan. 12 president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, tent camp and was attacked by three catastrophe, are now falling victim to was ousted, his enemies assassinated men. rapists in the sprawling tent cities his male supporters and raped their 
“They grabbed me, put their hands that have become home to hundreds wives and daughters. over my mouth and then the three of of thousands of people. But the quake that killed an esti­them took turns,” the slender 21-With no lighting and no security, mated 200,000 people has made year-old said, wriggling with discom-they are menacing places after sun-women and girls ever more vulnera­fort as she nursed her baby girl, born set. Sexual assaults are daily occur-ble. They have lost their homes and three days before Haiti’s devastating rences in the biggest camps, aid are forced to sleep in flimsy tents or quake. workers say — and most attacks go tarp-covered lean-tos. They’ve lost 
“I am so ashamed. We’re scared unreported because of the shame, male protection with the deaths of people will find out and shun us,” said social stigma and fear of reprisals husbands, brothers and sons. And the woman, who suffers from abdomi-from attackers. they are living in close quarters with nal pain and itching, likely from an Rape was a big problem in Haiti strangers. 

page 6 The Observer  NEWS Wednesday, March 17, 2010 

Holiday 
continued from page 1 
Junior Mary Kelly said she plans on wearing green to class, but she is disappointed about not being able to go to bars. 
“I’m not 21 yet so I feel like I’ll be missing out on a lot of stuff going on that night,” Kelly said. “Corby’s is an Irish pub and it’d be cool to go there on St. Patrick’s Day, but I guess that’ll have to wait until next year.” 
Senior Keith Ruehlmann said he enjoys St. Patrick’s Day because it gives students something to celebrate and provides a nice reprieve from their class work. 
“I like it because it gives everyone an excuse to step back from their work and cele­brate,” Ruehl mann said. 
Day. 

“I feel like I’m
Junior Claire There’s a lot of Fisher said she missing out on a stuff going on.” will not be able tradition that holds Both dining to take a break halls will be 
even more meaning
because she has serving tradi­a physics here at a school tional Irish fare midterm at 8 whose mascot is the tomorrow. 
a.m. Thursday Examples
Fighting Irish.” 
morning. She include corned said she is beef, boiled unhappy about Claire Fisher potatoes and the timing of junior colcannon. 
her exam. 
“I feel like I’m missing out on a tradition that holds even more meaning here at a school whose mascot is the Fighting Irish,” Fisher said. 
Fisher said she will probably wear green to class, but it will be the extent of her celebra­tion because she will be study-
Service 
continued from page 1 
actions of the students. 
“Awards like this are impor­tant because they are a public recognition of our students’ dedi­cation to the common good,” Call said. 
The level of student participa­tion at the College is higher than the national average, Call said. 
ing. 
“I’m forced to hear about everyone’s plans for the festivi­ties and I can’t participate,” Fisher said. 
Junior Kate Mullaney said she also has obligations requiring her to cut her St. Patrick’s Day celebrations short. 
“I have a mandatory chorale rehearsal. I don’t know how much celebrating I’ll actually get to do,” Mullaney said. “I’ll just wear green to class and get Irish dinner at the dining hall.” 
Some students, like senior Adam Woodruff, have midterms Thursday but plan on spending most of their time celebrating St. Patrick’s Day anyway. 
“I have a midterm on Thursday, but I don’t think I’ll be studying much,” Woodruff said. “I’ll probably be spending 
the whole day 
celebrating St. 
Patrick’s 
Another option 
for St. Patrick’s Day is heading off-campus to eat at Fiddler’s Hearth, an Irish restaurant and pub. Notre Dame’s Irish Dance team will be performing in the evening. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 
OCSE plans to offer several com­munity service opportunities within the next few weeks, including Walk for the Hungry on March 28 and Rebuilding Together on April 17. 
Call said OCSE offers a variety of other opportunities through­out the academic year for stu­dent involvement in community service. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
Restaurants make grades 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — New York City’s 24,000 restaurants — from its internationally known eateries on down to its most modest pizza coun­ters — will have to display large letter grades near their entrances indicating how clean they are under a system approved Tuesday. 
The best will get an A, according to the system approved by the city Board of Health. 
Officials say the system is designed to give instant information to potential cus­tomers. 
“The grade in the window will give you a sense of how clean the kitchen is, and it will give every restaurant operator an incentive to maintain safe, sanitary con­ditions,” Health Commissioner Thomas Farley said in a statement. 
Some other cities use simi­lar rating systems or are considering them. A bill was introduced last year in Washington D.C. to require them in restaurants, and Los Angeles has been posting public grades in eateries for years. 
Los Angeles grades its restaurants with A for scores of 90 to 100 percent, B for 80 to 89 percent and C for 70 to 79 percent. A restaurant that scores under 70 percent twice in a year is subject to closure. 
Some restaurant owners and industry officials have called the system gimmicky and unfair. 
“They’re doing a disservice to the public,” said Marc Murphy, a vice president of the New York State Restaurant Association and the owner and chef at the Manhattan restaurants Landmarc and Ditch Plains. 
He said the letter grading system will only serve to embarrass restaurateurs without giving the public a true picture of the establish­ment’s cleanliness. 
Critics charge that grades could change from week to week, depending on a city inspector’s whims, and that even a grade of B could be fatal to some fine dining establishments. 
“Two flies can get you cited for a rodent violation,” Murphy said. He predicted that the new system “will hurt our reputation as the restaurant capital of the world.” 
But celebrity chef Tom Colicchio, owner of Craft and other restaurants, said the system was a good idea. 
“I think anything that is going to encourage people to clean up their act and pro­tect the public is a good thing overall,” he said. 
New York officials say that after Los Angeles began its letter grading system for restaurants, the proportion of restaurants that met the highest standards rose from 40 percent to more than 80 percent. 
The details of New York’s system are still being final­ized, but the proposal called for grades A through C, based on demerit points accumulated by violations. 
“I think you’re going to find that most restaurants will get to the A status, which is the idea,” Mayor Michael Bloomberg said. 
About a quarter of the city’s restaurants have “sig­nificant lapses in food-safety practices,” according to the health department. Officials say that about 30 percent would qualify for an A, 40 percent a B and 26 percent a C. 
New York City’s restaurant inspection reports are already posted online, but 
officials said posting the information in restaurant doors and windows prevents diners from having to search for it. 
The plan approved Tuesday gives restaurants that receive grades lower than an A time to improve their sanitary conditions before they have to post any­thing. 
For those eateries, the health department will return within a month to conduct a second inspection, and the second grade will be posted unless the restaurant 
operator contests it. Restaurants appealing their grades will be allowed to post a “grade pending” sign. 
The health board vote was 6-2. One of the two board members who voted against it was Bruce Vladeck, an expert on health care policy and financing. 
He called the system “mis­guided” and “intellectually incoherent,” and said restaurants should be grad­ed on a pass -fail basis. Vladeck said he couldn’t see the value of saddling a restaurant with a passing grade with the black mark of a “C’’ ranking, if a different inspection on a different day might have earned them an “A.” 
The new regulations do not cover the city’s mobile food carts. 



The Observer 
Business

Wednesday, March 17, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Construction rates fall in Feb. 
WASHINGTON — Housing construction fell in February as winter blizzards held down activity in the Northeast and South. The decline highlighted the challenges fac­ing builders as they struggle to emerge from the worst housing slump in decades. 
The Commerce Department said Tuesday that construction of new homes and apart­ments fell 5.9 percent in February to a sea­sonally adjusted annual rate of 575,000 units, slightly higher than the 570,000 that economists were expecting. January activi­ty was revised up to a pace of 622,000 units, the strongest showing in 14 months. 
Economists characterized the February dip as weather-related although they said any housing rebound this year is likely to be modest at best, given a variety of head­winds from record home foreclosures to high unemployment. 
Oil prices reach $82 with low rates 
NEW YORK — Oil prices climbed back near $82 on Tuesday as the Federal Reserve said again that it will hold interest rates at record lows as the economy continues to recover. 
Benchmark crude for April delivery rose $1.90 to settle at $81.70 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
The stock market inched higher, reassured by the Fed's steady-as-she-goes approach and its view that the economy appeared to be stabi­lizing, although it was not fully recovered. 
Earlier in the day, the Commerce Department said that construction of new homes and apartments fell 5.9 percent in February to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 575,000 units. 
The weak housing report “puts less pressure on the Fed to raise interest rates,” said PFGBest Research Analyst Phil Flynn. 
“The Fed has at least the perception of more wiggle room, and that puts downward pressure on the dollar and upward pressure on crude.” 
The dollar continued its decline in afternoon trading, making dollar-denominated crude cheaper for holders of foreign currencies. 
Oil prices have swung between $70 and $85 for the better part of six months as global crude demand slowly recovers from the Great Recession but remains weak in developed countries. 
Honda recalls 410,000 vehicles 
Detroit automaker looking to work on problems in Element, Odyssey models 
Associated Press  
DETROIT — Honda  
Motor Co. will recall more  
than 410,000 Odyssey  
minivans and Element  
small trucks because of  
braking system problems  
that could make it tougher  
to stop the vehicle if not  
repaired.  
The recall includes  
344,000 Odysseys and  
68,000 Elements from the  
2007 and 2008 model  
years.  
Honda said in a state­ 
ment that over time, brake  
pedals can feel “soft” and  
must be pressed closer to  
the floor to stop the vehi­ 
cles. Left unrepaired, the  
problem could cause loss  
of braking power and pos­ 
sibly a crash, Honda  
spokesman Chris Martin  
said.  
“It’s definitely not oper­ 
ating the way it should,  
and it’s safety systems, so  
it brings it to the recall  
status,” he said.  
The National Highway  
Traffic Safety  
Administration has report­ 
ed three crashes due to  
the problem with minor  
injuries and no deaths,  
Martin said. Honda noti-AP  
fied NHTSA of the recall Honda said it is recalling about 410,000 Odyssey minivans and Element small trucks  
on Monday, he said. because of problems with the brake pedals.  
Honda has traced the  
problem to the device that  units to assure all cus- put plastic caps and  for braking and sudden  
powers the electronic sta­ tomers that their vehicles  sealant over two small  acceleration problems.  
bility control system,  will perform correctly,”  holes in the device to stop  One of the Toyota recalls  
which selectively brakes  Honda said in a statement.  the air from getting in,  is a braking software  
each of the wheels to keep  Under the recall, which  Martin said.  problem that causes the  
the vehicles upright dur- Honda said it volunteered  The automaker is still  pedal of the Prius gas- 
ing an emergency situa­ to do, Honda said that  preparing a list of affected  electric hybrid to momen­ 
tion.  owners should wait to get  vehicles. After April 19,  tarily drop toward the  
When the device, called  a letter from the company  owners can determine if  floor.  
a “vehicle stability assist  before scheduling a repair  their vehicles are being  Ford Motor Co. had a  
modulator,” tests itself  because the parts are not  recalled by going to  similar software problem  
when the vehicles are  yet available. Letters  www.recalls.honda.com or  with its Ford Fusion and  
started, it allows a small  should go out toward the  by calling (800) 999-1009,  Mercury Milan hybrids.  
amount of air into the  end of April.  and selecting option num- The company told owners  
hydraulic brake lines.  Drivers who fear that  ber four.  of 17,600 cars to bring  
Over time, an air bubble  they’ve lost braking power  The safety recall is  them in for a software  
in the lines can cause a  should have their dealer  Honda’s second in the past  update because a glitch  
loss of braking power and  check the brakes sooner,  two months. In February it  can give drivers the  
require that the pedal be  Martin said. The dealer  recalled 952,118 vehicles  impression that the brakes  
pushed farther toward the  can “bleed” air bubbles  globally due to air bag  have failed when they  
floor than normal to stop  out of the hydraulic lines,  problems.  haven’t.  
the vehicles, Martin said.  which should fix the prob- It comes on the heels of  The automaker called  
“Although not all vehi­ lem until the parts arrive  Toyota Motor Corp.’s spate  the repairs a “customer  
cles being recalled are  for the final repair, he  of safety recalls that  satisfaction program” and  
affected by this issue, we  said.  include more than 8 mil- said it was not a full- 
are recalling all possible  Honda technicians will  lion vehicles worldwide  fledged recall.  

Simon weighs new General Growth bid 
Associated Press General Growth, the nation’s second-unsecured creditors, and Pershing 
largest shopping mall operator, sought Square Capital Management, one of its 
LOS ANGELES — Simon Property shelter from creditors last April. It was largest shareholders. Group Inc. is considering raising its $10 the largest real estate bankruptcy in General Growth is expected to seek billion buyout offer for rival shopping U.S. history. approval from the bankruptcy court in mall owner General Growth Properties Despite being in Chapter 11 bank-coming weeks to designate the Inc. as early as this week, two people ruptcy protection for nearly a year, it Brookfield-Fairholme-Pershing proposal familiar with the matter said Tuesday. finds itself in the unusual position of as a “stalking-horse” bidder as it solicits 
Simon sent a letter to General Growth courting buyout offers that promise to other buyout offers. A stalking-horse bid this week saying it anticipates boosting pay off creditors in full and give share-is an initial offer for a bankrupt compa­its offer above that of a proposal put holders a premium over the current ny’s assets. forth by General Growth and three of its stock price. General Growth also plans to ask the largest stakeholders, the people said on Indianapolis-based Simon went public court to approve so-called bid protec­condition of anonymity because they last month with its bid for General tions that would compensate the were not authorized to discuss the mat-Growth, but it was rebuffed. investor group should General Growth ter publicly. General Growth is looking for a higher sell the company to another bidder. The 
That means a new Simon offer would offer and has put forward a plan to exit company has previously outlined com-have to value General Growth above bankruptcy with an investment from pensating the stalking-horse bidder $15 a share. Simon’s initial offer valued Canadian property manager Brookfield with warrants to buy 60 million the Chicago-based company at about $9 Asset Management Inc., Fairholme shares of General Growth at an exer­a share. Capital Management, one of its largest cise price of $15 a share. 

page 8 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, March 17, 2010 Wednesday, March 17, 2010 The Observer  NEWS page 9 
Faculty 
continued from page 1 
development in utero may influence sexual orientation and, therefore, gender identi­ty,” Wirth said. 
The hypothalamus addition­ally plays a significant role in sex and reproduction. 
Wirth said a part of the hypothalamus area affects homosexual men and hetero­sexual women similarly and also heterosexual men and homosexual women similarly. 
Wirth continued with a description of the sexual activ­ity of bonobos, primates close­ly related to humans. 
“They use sex to diffuse con­flicts,” she said. “They have sex about once an hour with same-sex and opposite-sex partners.” 
Dr. Agustín Fuentes, profes­sor of anthropology and Director of the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts (ISLA), continued the discus­sion with an examination of the social nature of sex. 
“Penguins will just pair up if there are not enough sexes,” he said. “Male with male, female with female, whatever 
— they just nest up. Are these penguins gay? No, they’re penguins.” 
Many mammals, Fuentes said, engage in sex outside the reproductive context in a more social context. 
“The more social an organ­ism, the more sex it will engage in,” he said, citing male sperm whales having sex with other males. 
“Humans are the only species that target homosexu­ality with aggressive acts,” he said. 
Fuentes said sex is compli­cated and varies between soci­eties. 
“Each society considers what it does to be the right thing,” he said. “Some societies engage in homosexual behav­ior until marriage … every culture is different.” 
Fuentes said our culture has different expectations of the representations of male and female bodies. 
A fully naked woman, he said, can be portrayed in an R-rated movie, while “a fully erect penis is an automatic NC-17.” 
Carlos Jerez-Farran, profes­sor of Spanish and fellow of the Nanovic 
and an object of the joke. 
“Jokes like the ones made on the expense of a third party are made for the benefit of male bonding,” Jerez-Farran said. “The hypothetical reader … bears witness by his laugh­ter.” 
Jerez-Farran explained how the heterosexual male feels the need to overcompensate for fear of being homosexual through acts of hypermas­culinity and violence. 
“The feared other is inex­orably in and around him,” he said. “We all have homosexual tendencies — most of us repress these tendencies.” 
Society tends to tiptoe around masculinity, he said. 
“When you defame mas­culinity, unfortunately it’s a lot worse [in our society] than when you defame femininity,” Jerez-Farran said. 
Ardizzone concluded the panel discussion with a family account of 
I n s titu te For E u r o p e a n Studies, contin­ “Humans are the only species that target  homosexuality. “My first expe­rience wa s in  
ued the discus­sion with a psy­c h o a n a l y t i c  homosexuality with agressive acts.”  the 1980s with a family member c o ming ou t to  
examination of  hi s  e x tend ed  
sexuality, espe­cially in light of t h e Janu ary  Dr. Agustin Fuentes professor of anthropology  family, most of whom w ere Cath olic, ” she  
Mob ile  Part y  said. “Each gen- 

cartoon that appeared in The eration of the family respond-Observer and featured a refer-ed differently. My grandpar­ence to violence against homo-ents were curious, while his sexuals. parents and my parents were 
A joke, Jerez-Farran said, is nervous and shocked but hard consisted of a teller, a listener pressed to find explanations.” 
As time has progressed, she ever narrowing ways. You said, society has become more can’t cry, you can’t express receptive to open dialogue strong emotion unless it’s about homosexuality. anger, you can’t hug another 
“In the 20th century, things man unless you’re wearing got clearer because people like football pads or any other [psychologist Sigmund] Freud super-masculine guise.” and [biologist Alfred] Kinsey Jerez-Farran echoed started talking,” she said. Ardizzone’s insight. 
Still, homosexuality was “The more sex-sensitive a something seen as very society is, the more homopho­strange. bic it is,” he said. 
“Homosexuality was some-The panel concluded with an thing to be stigmatized and examination of what the feared,” University is to Ardizzone said. do next about “My family was continuing dia ­
“The more 
fearful for my logue about cousin because sex-sensitive a homophobia. they knew what society is, the more Graduate stu ­was coming for dent Christopher 
homophobic it is.” 
him.” Andrew, said he 
Ardi zzone has been com ­explained what Carlos Jerez-Farran pleting his mas-she meant by professor of Spanish ters of fine arts “guy culture,” or ph otography the tendency of work, but much heterosexual men to distance of it has recently come under themselves from any vestiges scrutiny by the University for of homosexuality, as well as its “queer nature.” the term “no homo,” which, “Pieces that they deem most she said, is what some young troubling might be taken out,” men say to other young men to he said. affirm they are not gay. Andrews said Tuesday’s 
Most of the fear of homosex-panel discussion and dialogue uality, Ardizzone said, is like it are good ways to initiate directed toward homosexual public conversations about men, not homosexual women. homosexuality, especially in 
“The ‘Girls Gone Wild’ phe-light of its presence at a nomenon is not about lesbian Catholic University. identity,” she said. “From my “This is the problem with understanding, it’s about closeted institutions like Notre straight women acting on Dame,” Jerez-Farran said. behalf of what straight men want. Contact Katie Peralta at 
“Masculinity is defined in kperalta@nd.edu 


Runaway Toyota prompts inquiry 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Toyota’s investi­gation of sudden acceleration in some of its cars is shifting to sub­urban New York, where a driver said her Prius sped up on its own and slammed into a stone wall. 
Technicians from Toyota will join government investigators in Harrison, N.Y., on Wednesday to inspect the car. Toyota plans to examine an internal data recorder that documents the moments before and after a crash. 
The company will use equip­ment to determine how many times the driver hit the brakes and gas. It used the same tools earlier this week to cast doubt on a California driver who claimed his Prius sped to 94 mph before a patrol officer helped him stop it. 
In the Harrison case, authorities have said there is no indication of driver error. A housekeeper told police the car sped up on its own as she eased forward down her employer’s driveway on March 9 and hit a wall across the street. She was not hurt. 
Toyota recalled more than 8 million cars because their gas pedals could become stuck or be snagged by floor mats. In addition, the government is looking into complaints from at least 60 Toyota drivers who say they got their cars fixed and still had problems. Toyota is checking into those com­plaints as well. 
The investigations reflect chal­lenges faced by the company and government. Dealers and experts have had trouble recreating episodes of sudden acceleration, and Toyota says tests have failed to find other problems beyond the sticking gas pedals and floor mats. 
Some safety experts have said electronics, not simpler mechani­cal flaws, could be causing the problems. Toyota has said it has found no evidence of problems with its electronics but is studying the issue. 
“It’s not the old garden-variety defect investigation, where you have a broken part and the vehi­cle is disabled. It’s an intermittent problem,” said Allan J. Kam, a former senior enforcement attor­ney for the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration who now directs a private consulting firm. 
Toyota officials said they did not know how long the New York investigation would take. The company plans to release the results to Harrison police but not to the media because the police are also investigating. 
The Prius is not on Toyota’s recall list for sticky accelerators. However, the 2005 hybrid had been serviced for the floor mat problem. 
On Monday, Toyota held a press conference in San Diego to chal­lenge the story of James Sikes, who claimed his Prius sped out of control on the freeway last week. The company said its own tests had found almost nothing wrong with the car, and said Sikes had apparently pressed the brakes and gas at least 250 times. 
Jason Vines, who was Ford Motor Co.’s top public relations executive when the company faced scrutiny over massive Firestone tire recalls on its cars in 2000, said the San Diego case would prompt similar interest in the New York investigation. 
“They’ve gotten themselves into another box because of doing it one time in San Diego and now not doing it (in Harrison),” Vines said. “It’s just going to create more confusion.” 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 10 Wednesday, March 17, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
Bring on the Madness 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 

Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Douglas Farmer Megan Doyle Chris Allen Caitlyn Kalscheur Kevin Baldwin 
Graphics Scene 
Sofia Iturbe Caitlin Ferraro 
Viewpoint 
Patricia Fernandez 
Since we are in college, I think that it is pretty safe to say that St. Patrick’s Day is one of the best days, if not the best day, of the year. What if, however, I could tell you that it gets even bet­ter? God has granted us the Andy Ziccarelli perfect two-day follow up to the Moment of best party day Inertia of the year, and it comes in the form of even more energy, adrenaline and excitement than St. Patty’s Day. This event will cause people to skip class for the rest of the week, and for the dedicated stu­dents who will actually attend class, their attention will be likely be con­sumed by it. (As a warning to any pro­fessors: if anyone has their laptops open in class on Thursday and Friday, they aren’t taking notes. They aren’t even paying attention to you at all). Many, including myself, would say that these next two days are the best of the entire year. Yes, March Madness has finally arrived. 
The NCAA Tournament has univer­sal appeal. People of all ages and walks of life can’t get enough of the three-week basketball extravaganza. It is estimated that approximately $1.8 billion worth of productivity is lost in the American workforce due to workers constantly filling out and checking on their brackets. When I was in high school, we had television monitors in our school cafeteria that played a continuous loop of a slideshow of school announcements all year long. That is, of course, except for the first two days of the NCAA Tournament. On those days, the school would switch the monitors to CBS, allowing students to follow their brackets during their lunch period, and prompting hundreds of “bathroom breaks” from other students who hap­pened to be in class during those times. One time, a teacher of mine got so fed up with the number of students leaving class (there was a big upset brewing), that eventually he just gave up, stopped teaching and flipped on the game to let us watch. It is the only sporting event, and maybe the only event period, that causes that kind of reaction. 
What is so appealing about filling out a bracket is the feeling of control that you have over the tournament. Every bracket is a blank canvas, and the person filling it out is the only one pulling the strings. Who cares whether the person made their picks based on detailed research, a gut feel­ing or which team has a better mas­cot? (All are valid strategies, by the way.) There is nothing quite like call­ing a team to pull an upset, and then watching it as it plays out right in front of your eyes. The feeling of satis­faction is immense. Couple that feel­ing with some competition, and it is easy to see why the tournament is so addicting. The only thing more satisfy­ing than being the only person in the pool to call a darkhorse Sweet 16 team correctly is the joy that you can get from watching a friend’s bracket crumble to pieces, and then laughing at their misfortune. 
Beyond filling out brackets, though, the tournament has long been a favorite because of the underdogs. There is something distinctly American about rooting for the under­dog; the tough, scrappy team that may not have as much talent as their oppo­nent, but makes up for it in heart. Seeing an underdog win is something that everyone wants because it makes us feel good; we can all identify with them and want to see them overcome their shortcomings to succeed. And every year in the first round, there are teams that seemingly come from out of nowhere to upset the favorites. Most of the time, they win once and are bounced immediately in the next round. Sometimes, though, we find a team like George Mason in 2006, a No. 11 seed that was supposed to lose handily in its first round game but instead won four games in a row to make the Final Four, inspiring a school and the rest of country in the process. 
For me, though, the emotion and excitement of the tournament are unparalleled in any other sporting event all year. The kids that play in the tournament want so badly to win, and they will leave everything that they have out on the floor to do so. Every March, we see amazing individ­ual performances and last-second buzzer-beaters. And with those, we see plenty of hugs, tears of joy and beaming smiles, along with the requi­site tears of disappointment and heart-breaking faces of sadness from the losers. The look on a players face (and his team’s reaction) after hitting a game-winning shot is one of pure, unadulterated joy, something some profound and so intense, it is hard to find anywhere else. 
So, as you nurse your hangover tomorrow morning and wonder if your headache is ever going to go away, just turn on CBS. I think you’ll find the cure for St. Patrick’s Day is a little March Madness. 
Andy Ziccarelli is unsure as to whether he will leave his couch between Thursday and Sunday. Probably not. He is a junior majoring in civil engineering and can be reached at aziccare@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
We want a response 
On Feb. 20, a group of concerned Notre Dame students gathered outside the Joyce Center before a Junior Parents Weekend event to raise aware­ness about Notre Dame’s investment in HEI Hotels and Resorts, a company that has recently been issued charges by the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) for allegedly unfair labor practices sur­rounding their employees’ attempt to organize. HEI will have to defend itself in a trial on April 6. Students who have investigated the issue and spoken to HEI workers find Notre Dame’s contin­ued support of and investment in this company alarming. They chose to flyer outside the event in order to alert stu­dents and parents, who are investors in this University, about where exactly their money is going. 
Within minutes the students were stopped by NDSP. Their flyers were confiscated, and their names were recorded for processing. Concerned about the inability to publicize a con­troversial issue, they got in contact with 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A strong positive mental attitudewill create more miracles than anywonder drug.” 
Patricia Neal 
U.S. actress 
UNITE HERE!, the union involved in organizing HEI hotels, and United Students Against Sweatshops. With their help a nation-wide call/e-mail/fax­in to University President Fr. John Jenkins and Chief Investment Officer Scott Malpass was organized. The request was that our administrators lis­ten to the voices of their students, alumni and community supporters nationwide who are calling for them to live up to their professed Catholic val­ues, and that they do so by divesting from HEI. The event was held on Feb. 26 and led to over 1,200 e-mails and faxes sent to Jenkins and Malpass, as well as approximately 100 calls and two hand-delivered letters to their respective offices. 
And yet, weeks later, there has been no response from either Jenkins or Malpass. With the April 6 hearing looming closer, it is becoming ever more evident that the Notre Dame administration has lost touch with effective ways of communicating with and responding to the student body and its concerns. The lack of transparency in our investments must cease, and the investors, professors and the student body must be made privy to where our money comes from and where it goes. 


Thus, I ask you, Fr. Jenkins and Mr. Malpass, to respond to our concerns, to open up dialogue about this and other issues of economic justice in the Notre Dame community, and to deeply consid­er not only what it means to set an example as a Catholic university at this moment in time, but, on a more basic level, what it actually means to be Catholic. What values are we uphold­ing? Who are we supporting? Are we working to create the Kingdom of God here on earth or are we more con­cerned with our own continued sur­vival, at the cost of others? 
Roman Sanchez 
sophomore Zahm Hall March 15 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“While there’s life, there’s hope.” 
Cicero Roman philosopher 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Wednesday, March 17, 2010 page 11 
Limping toward God 

Most, if not all, of us make progress in the faith. We make our way toward God, not by leaps and bounds, but by stutter-steps: slowly and incremental­ly. The historical record — the lives of 
the saints  — ver­ 
ifies this. Even  Monsignor  
those saints who  Michael Heintz  
had a remark­ 
able or extraor- Guest  
dinary experi- Columnist  
ence of divine  
grace spent the  

vast majority of their life moving slow­ly toward God, with bumps, potholes and obstacles all along the way, and many of these self-imposed. In the wake of what is perhaps the most famous “conversion story,” an experi­ence of grace in a Milanese garden, St. Augustine (430 A.D.) later tells us that the resolution achieved there was only partial, and that, even as a bishop, he battled the familiar temptations and sins of his past. So we mustn’t imagine that this otherwise nameless Samaritan woman in John’s Gospel who was shacking up with her para­mour, after her encounter with Jesus, toddled on home and never sinned again. That encounter with the Living Water, that moment of grace, was not the end of the story; in many ways, it was just the beginning of one. As those who have participated in the RCIA can tell you, baptism isn’t the end of the process; it’s just the begin­ning of another, longer process of daily assimilation to Christ. 
So if you find yourself struggling — struggling to pray, struggling to keep focus, struggling to believe, struggling with the Church, struggling with the same old sins — don’t lose heart and don’t give up. Perhaps our biggest problem is that we live in the culture of the microwave and the internet, and so we like easy, quick and push-of-a-button solutions to our daily dilemmas. Nowhere in the Gospel does Jesus teach that perfection is achieved in a single, instantaneous, freeze-dried moment of grace. In fact, it is this impatience with our human incompleteness and creaturely status which, according to St Irenaeus (220 A.D.), prompted Adam and Eve to grasp the fruit in the garden: in due time, God indeed would have given them to eat of it, but they were impa­tient with the divine pedagogy, with the way God was bringing them along: they wanted to be perfect — and they wanted it right now. Very many people who come to confession — and some avoid it for this very reason — say “I always seem to confess the same things.” Welcome to the fallen human race. Confessing the same sins does not necessarily mean you’re not con­trite. We repeatedly confess the same or similar sins precisely because most of these sins are deeply embedded in our fallen nature and over time have become firmly entrenched in our per­sonality. Slow progress over time is what we should be looking for. There is good reason, after all, why the Church allows us to celebrate the sacrament repeatedly in the course of our life. 
The earliest Christians knew well that it is precisely the struggle which constitutes the life of the Christian; they used the graphic language of the “agõn,” the combat, the contest, and even employed images of wrestling in describing the life of those who follow Christ. They might even suggest to us that if we don’t find ourselves strug­gling, we should be very wary lest we’ve deceived ourselves about our­selves; for to struggle is precisely what it means to be a Christian in this world. And this struggle even has a cosmic dimension: each of us is engaged, as it were, in a struggle of allegiance, a contest of loyalty, between the Ruler of this Age and the Crucified One, and the daily decisions we make reflect precisely that larger, cosmic engagement, over whom we will serve. 
Yet what is needed in us is not mere­ly a change in behavior; conversion does not mean simply being “nicer” to other people, as though the Church is a kind of reform school where, in Skinner-like fashion, we are condi­tioned by fear to avoid bad behavior and to choose the good simply for a reward. No, what needs healing in us isn’t simply our behavior, but our very nature. All of our sins, our external bad acts, are but symptoms of a more profound internal pathology, a psyche that is distorted by pride, by what St. Augustine calls superbia, the absence of self-perspective induced by our self-absorption. We commonly equate pride with arrogance, but that’s just one of its more noticeable expres­sions. Pride is more deeply rooted in us than we might imagine. Most of us don’t roll out of bed in the morning, look into the bathroom mirror and say “I am the center of the universe.” No, it’s far more insidious than that. Pride isn’t one more icon on the screen of our life, it’s more like a virus which infects our whole operating system. This pride formats — that is, it dis­torts — the very way we perceive real­ity, including ourselves. Other people then become either a means we use to get what we want or an obstacle to the exercise of our will, an obstacle we must either overpower or remove. Our very thought processes, all our calcu­lations and scheming, reflect the will­fulness and self-referentiality which is pride: “It’s all about me,” after all. And so the healing and elevation of our nature, which is what conversion means from God’s perspective, is the work not of one evening, one mission, one retreat or one confession; rather, it is the work of a lifetime. Far from being a reform school, the Church is more like a convalescent home, where the medicine and healing of grace — through the sacraments — are to be found and applied. And I might sug­gest that the one, common antidote for all the deadly sins, whether pride, avarice, lust, anger, envy, gluttony or sloth, is charity; if every sinew of our being is infused with God’s love, if we’re chock-full of charity, there’ll be no room for sin. So in your daily struggles to overcome sin — whether you’re greedy or lustful or lazy or con­sumed with jealousy or have a nasty temper — don’t begin by asking to have fewer impure thoughts, or for a weaker craving for material goods or for more control of your short fuse; always start by first asking to be filled with His divine love. And you’ll be amazed at how effective this is. 
And so if you’re struggling, don’t lose heart and don’t give up. It’s the Enemy, the Ruler of this Age, who wants you to equate the struggle with failure. Then he wins. And you lose. Rather than give up out of frustration or discouragement, re-frame your understanding of the Christian life precisely in terms of this slow, daily, incremental assimilation to Christ. And remember, as Thomas Aquinas is said to have taught, “it is far better to limp along the right road than to run headlong down the wrong one.” 
Monsignor Michael Heintz is the director of the MDiv Program at the University of Notre Dame and can be reached at mheintz1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

No moral ‘inconsistency’ 
In light of some flaws in Mr. Durkin’s article “Moral consistency on the issue of life” (March 16), I would like to offer some accurate ideas from a Catholic perspective. I would like to state that I am both a mem­ber of Notre Dame Right to Life and per­sonally against the use of the death penal­ty in the United States. 
The Church teaches that capital punish­ment can be exercised by society as a legit­imate act of self-defense for the common good, not as an act of vengeance, but one of prevention and deterrence. As the Catechism states, “the traditional teaching of the Church does not exclude recourse to the death penalty, if this is the only possi­bly way of effectively defending human lives against the unjust aggressor” (CCC 2267). However, as Pope John Paul II makes clear in his encyclical, Evangeliium Vitae, society “ought not go to the extreme of executing the offender except in cases of absolute necessity — however, as a result of steady improvements in the organization of the penal system, such cases are very rare, if not practically non-existent.” 
The death penalty, in and of itself, is nei­ther a morally unacceptable practice, nor a violation of the sanctity of human life. 
Abortion, on the other hand, in and of itself, “is gravely contrary to the moral law” (2271). In a 2004 letter, then-Cardinal Ratzinger, made clear the difference between capital punishment and abortion: “While the Church exhorts civil authorities to seek peace, not war, and to exercise dis­cretion and mercy in imposing punishment on criminals, it may still be permissible to take up arms to repel an aggressor or to have recourse to capital punishment. There may be a legitimate diversity of opinion even among Catholics about wag­ing war and applying the death penalty, but not however with regard to abortion and euthanasia.” 
Therefore, both the University Task Force and Notre Dame RTL are both “morally consistent” with Catholic teach­ing. This is not a question of “conserva­tive” versus “liberal,” but a question of objective morality. Abortion is objectively a morally grave act, whereas capital punish­ment is not. 
Andrew Lynch 
freshman 
Morrissey Hall 
March 16 
Free Flame concert 
Logan, Notre Dame, Bayer, U93, Best Buddies and DTSB is spon­soring a free concert March 18 at 6:30 p.m. at the Century Center for Disability Awareness. Flame is a very unique rock band. All the musi­cians have either a physical or developmental disability. I saw them last year, and I can say they have many talented abilities. South Bend should lay out the red carpet for this rock band. Last year, they came all the way from New York on their tour bus to play at IUSB. They were robbed. Yes, people robbed the bus, while they were getting ready to play. Someone robbed them of their credit cards, cell phones, cash, ipods, whatever they could find on the bus. The band still went on stage and played in spite of how they were violated. The people that travel with them were teary-eyed and the musicians were clearly shaken. I have to commend the band Flame, and the people that support the band, for coming back to South Bend. So thank you to all the sponsors that are bringing wonderful free entertainment during these tough economic times. We all need to come and cele­brate these talented men and women! As a mother of a son with autism, I am thankful that you are bringing disability awareness to South Bend. South Bend, please keep them safe! See you on the red carpet, and be prepared for a rockin fun evening! 
I also want to thank the Notre Dame students for volunteering with Best Buddies and Logan. Your friendship is the world to our children and young adults. My son is a happier young man because of your compassion. 
Katherine Robinson Coleman 
alumnus Class of 1978 March 15 


The Observer 
Scene

page 12 Wednesday, March 17, 2010 


By JORDAN GAMBLE 
Scene Editor 

South Bend’s Logan Center will host its second big event for Disability Awareness Month Thursday with a free concert by the band Flame at 7 p.m. in the Century Center downtown. 
Flame, a cover band that has released three CDs and plays about 90 shows a year, is made up of 11 musi­cians with physical and developmental disabilities. The group originated in upstate New York in 2003 as a recre­ation program at a center for people with disabilities, and the band now tours internationally. It performs from a catalogue that includes over 100 classic rock, country and blues songs. 
The concert follows “Spread the Word to End the Word” Day on March 3, a national campaign that asked peo­ple to pledge to stop using the R-word. 
Nichole Maguire is the volunteer coordinator at the Logan Center, which this year celebrates 60 years of providing resources and recre­ation for people with disabilities. 
“I think this is going to impact our community quite a bit especially follow­ing ‘Spread the Word to End the Word,’” Maguire said. 

“I think we felt some momentum for Disability Awareness Month. [The concert] will highlight how amazing people with disabilities are,” Maguire said. “I really like the aspect of bring­ing the community and Notre Dame into awareness about disabilities.” 
Many students already work closely with the Logan Center. Senior Maeve Raphelson is president of Super Sibs, one of the clubs the Logan Center spon­sored. Super Sibs is a mentor program that pairs up Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students with South Bend-area youth who have siblings with disabili­ties. Raphelson herself has a sibling with autism, and she said she hopes the concert can show another side of disability awareness. 

“I think it’s really great to see adults with disabilities doing something that they enjoy and that are successful at,” Raphelson said. 
“My little brother’s autistic, and he really wants to be an author ... It gives me hope for my little brother’s future.” 
While many Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students participate in the Logan Center’s programs now, Raphelson and Maguire said they hope the concert will call more attention to the Center’s activities. 
“This is really the main event for Disability Awareness Month. ‘Spread the Word’ was mainly an on-campus thing,” Raphelson said. “This is a way to bring the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s community and the South Bend community togeth­er. It’s a way for people to learn about disabilities and that they’re not as debilitat­ing and life-ending as people 
think they are. 
“If there’s a good 
showing from 
Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary’s 
to show 
the com­
munity 
that we 
really 
care. I 
hope 
every ­
one bring a friend and people that haven’t been involved before can start getting involved. You can 
learn so much from people with disabilities. It’s a really important part of human diversity.” 
Doors at the Century Center open at 
6:30 for the 7 p.m. show. Tickets are free, and the first 100 students in attendance will receive free t-shirts. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
Observer Graphic I SOFIA ITURBE 
The Observer 
Scene

Wednesday, March 17, 2010 page 13 


SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 17, 2010 
NFL 

Dungy to reform Carolina inmates 
Associated Press 
COLUMBIA, S.C. — Tony Dungy stood before more than 1,700 prisoners Tuesday, sharing a smile and message of hope that has become his life’s work. 
The former NFL champi­onship coach said he recently visited an inmate in Florida that he had ministered to nearly 10 years ago. The prisoner thanked Dungy for changing his mental and spir­itual outlook. 
“That,” Dungy said, “was a bigger thrill for me than win­ning the Super Bowl.” 
Dungy guided the Indianapolis Colts to the Super Bowl win in 2007 — the first black coach to do so 
— then left the league after one more season to focus on his family and mission. The football analyst spent the morning speaking to inmates at three facilities in the Broad River Correctional complex of the South Carolina Department of Corrections. 
The last gathering was for about 550 minimum-security prisoners assembled on a worn-down softball field not far from the prison’s entrance. 
A choir and band from the Central Church of God in Charlotte, N.C., played inspi­rational songs before Dungy’s group arrived. 
Dungy told the crowd he’d 
often come to South Carolina ’s capital city to search out prospects as a pro and college coach. This time, he came to let those locked up know it’s not too late for positive, lasting change. 
“It really doesn’t matter about your past,” Dungy said. “It’s about your future and what you’re going to do.” 
Dungy got involved in prison ministries while head coach of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in 1996. He was nervous about meeting inmates, beset, he says, with the same misgivings many have about those behind bars. 
Dungy discovered many prisoners are filled with remorse and eager to amend for mistakes. 
He’s been actively involved ever since. Tommy, a 39-year-old mini­
mum security inmate serving 17 years for strongarm rob­bery, is a football fan who immediately signed up when Dungy’s visit was announced. 
The Rock Hill man, already impressed with Dungy’s NFL accomplishments, left with the former coach’s encour­agement in mind. 
“By him being the first African-American coach (to win a Super Bowl), that was uplifting,” he said. “It was real nice to see him in per­son. I enjoyed it. I think it was a real positive influ ­ence.” 
The Department of Corrections did not want the prisoner’s last name used. 
Dungy was introduced to the crowd by Gov. Mark Sanford, whose political future and marriage were wrecked by revelations last summer he had a South American mistress. Sanford and ex -wife Jenny were divorced last month. 
Sanford said he learned through his travails that all need forgiveness and to extend that forgiveness to other transgressors. 
“Here’s a guy with a Super Bowl ring, ” Sanford said, “and yet here’s a guy who’s here because he believes in some principles and ideals that, if instituted, will make sure that you’ll never be here again.” 
Dungy spoke of the most high -profile prisoner he ’s worked with — Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Michael Vick. Football helped Vick restart his life after serving an 18-month prison sentence for operating a dogfighting ring. Dungy said Vick’s doing well mentally and emotional­ly, but will likely pay a price with the public for his crimes. 
“I can’t imagine the mail he’s gotten because I know the mail I’ve gotten just for helping him,” Dungy said. 
thinks, but fortunately, that’s not the way God thinks 
Dungy said his NFL coach­ing career is likely finished, but he feels privileged to play a role in the redemptive jour­ney of others. 
“I guess I just have a heart for young men,” he said. “To give just a little bit of encour­agement, that’s what it’s all about for me.” 
MLB 
Westbrook, Indians defeat Giants 

Associated Press 
GOODYEAR, Ariz.— As Jake Westbrook ran sprints in the outfield grass, a Cleveland fan leaned over the railing in right field and offered his cri­tique. 
“Hey, Jake,” the man hollered. “Great outing.” 
Westbrook smiled. “Thanks,” he said. 
One more step in the come­back complete. 
Westbrook, whose career was nearly ended by an elbow injury, outpitched two-time Cy Young winner Tim Lincecum, Shin Soo-Choo homered off San Francisco’s ace and Travis Hafner drove in three runs on Tu esda y, zone,” the 32-year-old said. “I was able to do that. I was being very aggressive and when I’m aggressive and throwing strikes it makes all of my pitches that much bet­ter. For me right now, it’s just fine tuning my command.” 
Westbrook hasn’t pitched in a major league game since May 28, 2008, but that didn’t stop Acta from picking him to open the season on April 5 in Chicago. 
“I can’t take it back any­ways,” Acta said with a laugh. “I made my decision based on his track record and how good he was in the past when he was healthy. If he was healthy, there was no hesitation in doing that. He’s 
leading the C l e v e l a n d Indians to a 7-1 exhibi- “I was just throwing strikes with all my pitches, getting ahead  gotten better each outing. The ball is coming out of his hand really good.  
tion over Giants.  win the  and pounding the zone”  He’s feeling great. He’s going to have his ups and  
Penciled in  downs, but right  
by  new  Jake Westbrook  now he’s throwing  
m a n a g e r Manny Acta  Indians pitcher  well.” Lincecum, who  
to  be  the  followed up his Cy  

Indians’ opening-day starter, Young season in 2008 by win-Westbrook allowed one run ning another award last sea-and two hits in four innings. son, allowed four runs and It was his best outing this four hits in four innings. He spring and a huge confidence walked four and struck out builder for the right-hander, four. who underwent Tommy John His line was consistent. His surgery in 2008. pitches were not. 
“I was just throwing strikes “A couple of balls just got with all my pitches, getting away from me,” Lincecum ahead and pounding the said. “Other than that, I’ll try to take something away from this. My body still feels good. The velocity on my fastball is getting a little bit better. It’s coming out of my hand better. I know I had three or four walks, but it’s spring train­ing.” 
Lincecum allowed a home run by Choo in the first and gave up a two-run double to Trevor Crowe in the fourth. Although he has a 9.39 ERA during the exhibition season, the carefree 25-year-old isn’t worried and came away pleased with his perform­ance. 
“I felt fine,” he said. “I had a couple rough innings. You want to get those out of the way before the season starts.” 
It was Choo’s first homer of the spring and just the sev­enth in 11 games for the power challenged Indians, who hit 161 last season — 83 less than the league-leading New York Yankees. 
Hafner hit a three-run dou­ble in the seventh to make it 7-1. It was Hafner’s first extra-base hit, and the fact that he pulled it to right-cen­ter was an encouraging sign for the Indians, who are hop­ing he can find his power stroke after hitting just 16 homers last season. 
“It’s good to see, but we like that he’s taking pitches,” Acta said. “He’s seeing the ball well and he’s very confident with his hands and shoulders. If he’s 100 percent healthy, he’ll produce for us.” 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  Happy 11th birthday Mike!  She'll be talking to me about some- 
WANTED  PERSONALS  not go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist  FOR RENT  ————————————————  thing. Suddenly the words fade into silence. A cloud comes into her eyes  
you. If you or someone you love  I said that I would see you because I  and they go blank. She's somewhere  
needs confidential support or  had heard that you were a serious  else, away from me, someone I don't  
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make  Summer Camp Counselor for  assistance, please call Sr. Sue  Looking for someone to rent the  man, to be treated with respect. But I  know. I call her, she doesn't even hear  
a difference in the life of a child!  children w/disabilities. Must have  Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1­ upstairs of my home. Quiet  must say no to you and let me give  me. Then, with a long sigh, she's back.  
Summer therapy camp for children  strong work ethic and be interest­ 2685. For more information, visit  Mishawaka neighborhood, $450 a  you my reasons. It's true I have a lot of  Looks at me brightly, doesn't even  
with physical disabilities. Located on  ed in making a difference in the  ND's web site: http://pregnancy­ month, includes all utilities. Call 250­ friends in politics, but they wouldn't be  know she's been away, can't tell me  
shore of Lake Superior in Big Bay, MI.  life of a child. $10-$15.25 hr., 35  support.nd.edu  8278 for details.  so friendly if they knew my business  where or when.  
Positions available for Counselors,  hr/wk, summer only. 5 sites in  ————————————————  ————————————————  was drugs instead of gambling which  ————————————————  
Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/Arts  Summit County, Ohio. Must enjoy  they consider a harmless vice. But  You love playing with that. You love  
&amp; Crafts/Recreation, Nurses,  outdoor activities. Visit  If you or someone you care about has  gradrentals.viewwork.com  drugs, that's a dirty business.  playing with all your stuffed animals.  
Therapists, Food Service, and  www.akroncyo.org to download  been sexually assaulted, we can help.  ————————————————  ————————————————  You love your Mommy, your Daddy.  
Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic,  an application from the Careers  For more information, visit Notre  A fellow will remember a lot of things  You love your pajamas. You love  
responsible, and love children. June  link. EOE  Dame's website: http.csap.nd.edu  For rent: Furnished 4 bedroom house  you wouldn't think he'd remember. You  everything, don't ya? Yea. But you  
13 through August 8. Salary, room  ————————————————  5 blocks from campus. Off street park- take me. One day, back in 1896, I was  know what, buddy? As you get  
&amp; board, and experience of life­ ————————————————  ing, security system, central air. Nice.  crossing over to Jersey on the ferry,  older... some of the things you love  
time provided. Download application:  CONSIDERING ADOPTION? ND  Only $350.00 a month each. Call 574­ and as we pulled out, there was anoth­ might not seem so special anymore.  
www.baycliff.org For more information  Cleaning By Maria 954-657-1898  ALUMS hoping to adopt. Please visit  289-4071.  er ferry pulling in, and on it there was a  Like your Jack-in-a-Box. Maybe you'll  
call or email: (906) 345-9314/email  Homes, Apartments, Offices  our website http://www.pauldiana­ ————————————————  girl waiting to get off. A white dress she  realize it's just a piece of tin and a  
baycliff@baycliff.org  Affordable and Relaible  adoptionprofile.net  Go Irish, Beat Monarchs and Vikings!  had on.  stuffed animal.  
————————————————  ————————————————  ————————————————  ————————————————  ————————————————  ————————————————  

Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 

Wednesday, March 17 2010 page 15 
NCAA Division I Men’s Track and Field Rankings 
team previous 
1 Florida 2 2 Oregon 3 3 Texas A&M 1 4 Arizona State 5 5 LSU 4 6 Texas Tech 7 7 Minnesota 12 8 Arkansas 6 9 Florida State 14 10 Virginia Tech 8 11 Nebraska 11 12 Indiana 10 13 New Meico 22 14 Penn State 13 15 Oklahoma 9 16 California 16 17 Auburn 18 18 Georgia 24 19 Northern Arizona 17 20 Stanford 15 21 Arizona 21 22 Baylor 19 23 Kentucky NR 24 Texas 25 25 Mississippi 23 
NCAA Division I Women’s Track and Field Rankings 
team  previous  
1  Oregon  1  
2  Texas A&M  2  
3  LSU  6  
4  Florida  3  
5  Tennessee  5  
6  Clemson  4  
7  Arkansas  8  
8  Penn State  7  
9  Villanova  9  
10  Louisville  13  
11  Florida State  17  
12  Auburn  11  
13  Indiana State  16  
14  Nebraska  18  
15  West Virginia  NR  
16  Southern Illinois  12  
17  Arizona  14  
18  South Carolina  23  
19  Iowa State  21  
20  BYU  15  
21  Oklahoma  19  
22  UTEP  10  
23  Indiana  20  
24  Virginia Tech  22  
25  Kentucky  NR  



around the dial 
NBA Basketball 
Spurs at Magic 8 p.m., ESPN 

Men’s NCAA Basketball 
Weber State at Cincinatti 7 p.m., ESPN2 
PGA TOUR 


Woods set to return for Masters on April 8 
Associated Press 
PALM HARBOR, Florida 
— For Tiger Woods, this figures to be a Masters like no other. 
Woods said Tuesday he will end more than four months of seclusion and play at Augusta National in three weeks, shielded by the most secure environ­ment in golf as he com­petes for the first time since a sex scandal shat­tered his image. 
“The Masters is where I won my first major and I view this tournament with great respect,” Woods said in a statement. “After a long and necessary time away from the game, I feel like I’m ready to start my season at Augusta.” 
The Masters begins April 8. 
No other major champi­onship attracts such a large television audience, and that’s under normal circumstances. 
Already the most popular figure in golf with his 82 worldwide victories and 14 majors — four of them at the Masters — Woods returns as a disgraced star who will be under the greatest scrutiny of his career. 
“We’re all looking for­ward to having him back. We want him playing,” Jim Furyk said. “I’m sure we’re also looking forward to everything being business as usual. And it’s going to take awhile. We know that.” 
Woods last competed Nov. 15 when he won the Australian Masters in Melbourne. Twelve days later, he rammed his sport utility vehicle over a fire hydrant and into a tree outside his Florida home, an accident that set off sordid tales of extramarital affairs. Woods announced Dec. 11 that he would take an indefinite break to try to save his marriage. 
“The major champi­onships have always been a special focus in my career and, as a profes­sional, I think Augusta is where I need to be, even though it’s been a while since I last played,” Woods said. 

“I have undergone almost two months of inpa­tient therapy and I am con­tinuing my treatment,” he said. “Although I’m return­ing to competition, I still have a lot of work to do in my personal life.” 
Augusta National chair­man Billy Payne said the club supported Woods’ decision to make his return at the Masters, adding that “we support and encour­age his stated commitment to continue the significant work required to rebuild his personal and profes­sional life.” 
PGA Tour commissioner Tim Finchem also said he was pleased to learn of Woods’ return. 
IN BRIEF 
Hawks ’ Campbell has broken clavicle, rib 
CHICAGO — Chicago Blackhawks defenseman Brian Campbell will miss seven to eight weeks with a broken collar bone and a fractured rib, the result of a hit from Washington Capitals’ star Alex Ovechkin. 
Blackhawks team doctor Michael Terry said Tuesday that Campbell will likely avoid surgery and is expected to make a full recovery. The Blackhawks’ regular season ends April 11. 
Ovechkin drove Campbell into the boards from behind in the first period of Sunday’s game. Campbell stayed on the ice for several minutes. Ovechkin, the NHL’s leading scorer, drew a game misconduct penalty for the hit and on Monday got a two-game suspension. 
Ovechkin said he was “disappointed” by the NHL’s decision and was sorry for the injury that came on what he thought was “just a little push.” Ovechkin will miss games Tuesday at Florida and Thursday at Carolina. 
Whie Sox’s Mitchell to miss 2010 season 
GLENDALE, Ariz. — Chicago White Sox outfielder Jared Mitchell will miss the 2010 season after surgery on his left ankle. 
The team said Tuesday that the 21­year-old prospect is expected to make a complete recovery. Mitchell was injured Friday while mak­ing a spectacular, against-the-wall catch on a drive off the bat of Juan Rivera in a split-squad win over the Los Angeles Angels. 
The 21-year-old Mitchell is among the club’s top prospects despite minimal experience in the minor leagues so far after being drafted out of Louisiana State. He batted .296 with 12 doubles, two triples and 10 RBIs in 34 games last year for Class A Kannapolis of the South Atlantic League. 
Mitchell was taken by Chicago 23rd overall in last June’s amateur draft. The surgery was to repair a tear of the tendon on the inside of his ankle. 

Arenas: ‘I deserve to be punished’ for gun prank 
WASHINGTON — Gilbert Arenas says he deserves to be punished for bringing guns to the locker room. 
The suspended Washington Wizards guard told Esquire maga­zine that he wasn’t using “longevi­ty thinking” when he took out four guns in what he says was an attempt to play a prank on team­mate Javaris Crittenton in December. 
Arenas pleaded guilty to a felony gun charge in January and will be sentenced next week. He has been suspended until the end of the sea­son by the NBA. 
In the Esquire interview, which hits newsstands next week and was obtained by The Associated Press in advance, Arenas says he has “messed up” the legacy of Wizards owner Abe Pollin, who died in November. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 17, 2010 
NHL 

Suspension for hit angers Ovechkin 
Associated Press 
SUNRISE, Fla. — Washington Capitals star Alex Ovechkin on Tuesday said he was disappoint­ed by a two-game suspension issued for a hit on Chicago’s Brian Campbell. 
In a brief interview with reporters in South Florida, the two-time MVP first said he was sorry that the hit resulted in an injury for Campbell and added that he was “disappointed” it resulted in a two-game suspen­sion. He answered just three questions before a Capitals team official ended the session. 
“I think it was like the heat of the hit,” Ovechkin said when asked if he was surprised by the league’s decision. “I think it was just a little push.” 
Campbell is done for the regu­lar season. He is expected to miss up to two months with a broken collar bone and a fractured rib, but Blackhawks team doctor Michael Terry said Tuesday that Campbell probably will avoid sur­gery and is expected to make a full recovery. 
In a statement posted on the team’s Web site, Ovechkin said he would continue to ‘play hard, play with passion and play with respect for my teammates, oppo­nents and fans’ when he returned from the suspension. 
“I didn’t mean to make some­one injured,” Ovechkin told reporters. “But you know, it’s a hockey game.” 
Ovechkin drove Campbell into the boards from behind in the first period Sunday and received a major penalty and a game mis­conduct. The Blackhawks defenseman stayed down for sev­eral minutes before he was able to leave the ice with a trainer. He did not return to the game. 
The injuries mean the 30-year­old Campbell’s streak of consecu­tive regular-season games, which reached 388 on Sunday, is over. Chicago’s regular season ends April 11, and Campbell could return by mid-May if the Blackhawks are still in the play­offs. 
Campbell is a three-time All-Star who has seven goals and 31 assists this season. 
“I just know there was no mal­ice intended,” Capitals coach Bruce Boudreau said. “He didn’t go to hurt him. He went to hit him, and he hit him, but the hit didn’t cause the damage. The boards caused the damage.” 
Ovechkin will miss Tuesday’s contest against the Florida Panthers and Thursday’s game at Carolina. It is the fourth time this season that Ovechkin will miss a game against the Panthers. An upper-body injury sidelined Ovechkin for a home-and-home series in November and he was suspended when the Capitals faced Florida on Dec. 3. The Panthers still lost all three games. 
“But we’re a very good team. He is the MVP and all of those things and we can’t replace him, but we’ve still got three good offensive lines, because we’re an offensive team, and we’re playing well. I’m hoping the guys will pick it up for him again.” 
Associated Press 
DAYTON, Ohio — Arkansas-Pine Bluff finally found a road trip to its liking. 
Allen Smith scored 14 points Tuesday night, including a pair of 3-pointers during the Golden Lions' second-half surge to a 61-44 victory over Winthrop in the NCAA tourna­ment's opening game. 
The Golden Lions (18-15) will play Duke, the No. 1 seed in the South Regional, on Friday in Jacksonville, Fla. — a place they somehow missed during a season-opening jaunt that nearly did them in. They spent the first two months playing some of the country's best teams on the road, going everywhere and getting nowhere. 
They dropped their first 11 games, losing at schools such as Texas-El Paso, Michigan, Oklahoma State, Georgia Tech, Missouri, Kansas State and Oregon. They cranked up their iPods and let their music soothe them during 13-hour bus rides across the heartland, ones that bonded them. 
The basketball equivalent of boot camp hardened them for a Southwestern Athletic Conference season that would be much more kind. By the time their tournament rolled around, the Golden Lions were only one game under .500, nearly out of that 11-loss hole. 
They swept through the con­ference tournament to get to Dayton. Their next destination is with history — a chance to pull off the unprecedented first-round upset of a No. 1 team. Coach George Ivory knows a little bit about that. 
He was a star at Mississippi Valley State, which kept up with No. 1 Duke in 1986 before falling 85-78. 
The fast exit was familiar for Winthrop (19-14), which has made the tournament nine times in the last 12 years but has only one victory in all those tries. 
Winthrop got the type of game it wanted, but couldn't make a shot as another tour­nament slipped away. Charles Corbin scored 13 points for the Eagles, who shot 29 percent from the field and went 2 of 21 behind the 3-point arc. 
Neither team shoots particu­larly well — no player aver­ages more than 10 points for either one. Instead, they win with tight defense and rebounding. 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Oregon fires Kent after tourney-opening loss 
Associated Press 
EUGENE, Ore. — Ernie Kent, the winningest coach in Oregon history, was dismissed Tuesday after 13 seasons with his alma mater. 
“You may find a better bas­ketball coach, but I don’t think you’ll find anybody that has the passion and love that I have for this university,” said Kent, who had to pause for several moments to fight back his emotions. 
Oregon went 16-16 overall and 7-11 in the Pac-10 this past season, finishing with a 90-74 quarterfinal loss to California in the conference tournament. 
Kent, 55, leaves Oregon with a 235-173 overall record. But the Ducks have slipped in the past two seasons, going 24-39 and finishing 10th and ninth, respectively, in conference play. 
Attendance has also dipped from an average of 7,922 in 2008-09 to 7,122 this past season. 
Kent was the longest tenured Pac-10 coach. He took Oregon to the NCAA tourna­ment five times, advancing twice to the round of eight. 
He played at Oregon from 1973-77, part of the so-called Kamakazi Kids under coach Dick Harter. 
Oregon athletic director Mike Bellotti said Oregon ter­minated Kent’s contract effec­tive June 30. He cited his record and declining atten­dance at MacArthur Court. 
“I think the accomplish­ments that Ernie has done speak for themselves,” said Bellotti, who admitted it was a difficult decision. “He’s given his life to the university as a student, a teacher and a coach.” 
The dismissal had been rumored for the past two weeks, after Eugene’s KVAL­TV reported that Kent had been informed on Feb. 22 that he would not return as the Ducks’ coach. 
Kent told his players shortly after the regular season finale. 
Both Kent and Bellotti, who appeared separately at a news conference on Tuesday on the floor of Mac Court, confirmed the details of the report. Kent said he was given the option of leaving the team at that time. 
“I thought it would be very hypocritical of me to walk out on my guys,” Kent said. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Golden Lions down Winthrop 
These mirror-image teams settled in to slog one out on the NCAA's big stage. 
Midway through the first half, there were as many shots blocked as made. Bored fans started doing the wave. Arkansas-Pine Bluff's Tavaris Washington missed two dunk attempts. Both teams shot under 30 percent from the field in the first half, which ended with the Golden Lions up 24-23. 
Ugly? Not to these two. 
Corbin was the only shooter with any semblance of a touch, making his three attempts in the first half. His 3-pointer started a 13-2 run that gave Winthrop a 23-17 lead. The Golden Lions caught up by drawing fouls and making free throws. 


Wednesday, March 17, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
PGA 

Masters filled with storylines beyond Woods 
Associated Press 
PALM HARBOR, Fla. — The Masters is three weeks away, filled with story lines that now are sure to be ignored. 
Jack Nicklaus and Arnold Palmer will be paired togeth­er, if only to hit a ceremonial tee shot to start the tourna­ment. 
Angel Cabrera is the defend­ing champion. Europe, with five players among the top 10 in the world, has vastly improved its chances of hav­ing a Masters champion for the first time since 1999. 
Brothers will be competing for the first time in 10 years 
— Francesco and Edoardo Molinari of Italy. Oh, and Tiger Woods is play­ing. 
That announcement Tuesday was all it took for the Masters to become about one player. 
Minutes later, reporters flocked to the practice range at Innisbrook to find anyone willing to share any perspec­tive about his return to com­petition. 
The most awkward moment came when a reporter asked Rod Pampling, who frequently plays practice rounds with Woods at the majors, if he would seek him out at Augusta National. 
“I’d love to,”Pampling said. “But I’m not in the tourna­ment. Thanks for reminding me.” 
It might seem that so much attention on one player would allow everyone else to be left alone to work on their games and get in the right frame of mind for a week that requires so much discipline. 
One problem. 
“It will have an affect on everyone because we’re going to have to talk about it a lot,”Jim Furyk said while sur­rounded by TV cameras. “I’m doing it right now. He’s going to be difficult to interview, so that leaves the rest of us answering a lot of questions.” 
This is not the first time the Masters has been taken hostage by a single story on the road to Augusta National. 
Seven year ago, rarely a week on the PGA Tour went by without someone asking about Martha Burk and her cam­paign against the club’s all-male membership. When the Masters rolled around, every­one was waiting to hear the press conference of club chairman Hootie Johnson, who started the whole thing with his “point of a bayonet”letter to Burk. He took nearly three dozen ques­tions without saying much of anything. 
The uproar even overshad­owed Woods’ effort to become the first player to win three straight years. At one point, Woods said the best way to get into Augusta National was by parachute. 
But this is different. 
Once the 2003 Masters began the focus returned to competition. 
Woods figures to command attention as long as he’s on the golf course. 
There was speculation that Augusta National did not want Woods to return at its hal­lowed tournament and create the biggest media spectacle in sports, although chairman Billy Payne appeared to wel­come him in his statement. 
“We support Tiger’s decision to return to competitive golf beginning at this year’s Masters Tournament,”he said. 
The timing of Woods’ announcement could not have been better or worse. Whenever he announced his plans, it was sure to become the biggest story no matter what was going on (the Transitions Championship, by the way, starts Thursday). 
That will be the case at Innisbrook and Bay Hill, and the Houston Open the week before the Masters. And don’t forget the Tavistock Cup, to be played next Monday at Isleworth, not far from where Woods ran over the fire hydrant and hit a tree in that middle-of-the-night accident that began this sordid tale. 
At least in the Martha Burk year, players were talking about a lobbyist they didn’t know, and a subject out of their control. 
Everyone knows Woods. Most are careful what they say. 


TENNIS 
Roddick and Murray advance in California 
Associated Press 
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. — Andy Roddick defeated Thiemo de Bakker of the Netherlands 6-3, 6­4 on Tuesday to reach the fourth round of the BNP Paribas Open along with Andy Murray, while second-seeded Caroline Wozniacki advanced to the women’s quarterfinals. 
Roddick, a semifinalist here last year, improved his record to 17-3 this season, all on hard-courts. He had an easier time with de Bakker than their first meeting, a three-set win at the Australian Open in January. 
Roddick served 10 aces and saved the only service break he faced in the first set of a match played in nearly 90-degree heat. 
“The points he was winning he was either having to play a pretty high risk shot, maybe go for a winner, or he was having to go deep into rallies,” Roddick said. “So if you do that over the course of a match, you normally like your chances.” 
The seventh-seeded American will next play No. 22 Jurgen Melzer, who advanced when Simon Greul withdrew because of illness. 
“Jurgen is always tough. He’s capable of playing a couple dif­ferent ways,” Roddick said. “He was capable of coming forward, attacking, really being the aggressor, which is always a little bit uncomfortable. It’s important to hang on to your service games.” 
No. 4 Murray served seven aces and was broken just once in defeating American Michael Russell 6-3, 7-5. At 31, Russell was the oldest player remaining in the men’s field. 
“I don’t think I lost my concen­tration necessarily on the game when I got broken, but he had break point; he had a great back­hand,” Murray said. “I would have liked to have closed it out there 3 and 3, but I did well to stay composed at the end.” 
James Blake joined Russell as another sidelined American, los­ing 6-4, 3-6, 6-3 to Nicolas Almagro of Spain. Roddick and John Isner are the lone U.S. men left, with Isner facing a tough match against No. 3 Rafael Nadal on Wednesday. 
In fourth-round women’s play, No. 4 Elena Dementieva beat No. 19 Aravane Rezai of France 6-3 6-3, sixth-seeded Jelena Jankovic routed No. 17 Shahar Peer 6-2, 6-2, and No. 8 Samantha Stosur defeated defending champion Vera Zvonareva 6-2, 7-5. 
Top-ranked Roger Federer was to play Marcos Baghdatis in a night match. 
Wozniacki advanced to the quarterfinals with a 6-3, 3-6, 6-0 victory over 16th-seeded Nadia Petrova, whose career record against top-five players dropped to 11-42 with the loss. 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 17, 2010 
NHL 

Mueller’s two goals lead Avalanche over Blues 
Kobasew extends Wild’s streak over Edmonton; Predators edge Flyers as Erat scores only goal of shootout 
streak over Edmonton is tied Brian Boucher at 9:45. 
Associated Press 
for the longest home winning The Predators put immediate 

ST. LOUIS — Peter Mueller streak against an opponent in pressure on the new Flyers scored twice on a three-point the NHL, according to the Elias goalie, scoring a goal just 20 game that matched his career Sports Bureau. seconds after he entered the best and Paul Stastny netted his Minnesota, which entered the game. fifth goal in three games with night eight points behind Boucher stopped Joel Ward’s two assists, helping the Detroit for the eighth and final shot from the right faceoff dot, Colorado Avalanche sweep the playoff spot in the Western but Smithson was parked just season series against the St. Conference with 11 games outside the crease and back-Louis Blues with a 5-3 victory remaining, has won three handed the rebound in for his on Tuesday night. straight for the first time since ninth goal of the season. 
The Blues had quick goals to Jan. 23-28. Gagne got the Flyers within a start the first two periods, with The Wild have played well goal at 11:14 of the third. Alex Steen matching the fran-recently despite several key Pronger’s goal came on a wrist chise record to start the game players missing games with shot from the low slot with the on his 20th goal at the 8-second injuries. Starting goalie Niklas Flyers on a power play. mark and Patrik Berglund scor-Backstrom and defenseman ing at 34 seconds of the second Brent Burns are out. Also miss-Coyotes 2, Lightning 1 to tie it at 2. Otherwise, backup ing is role player Shane Hnidy Vernon Fiddler and Matthew goalie Peter Budaj was effective and enforcer Derek Boogaard. Lombardi scored in a 2-minute subbing for Craig Anderson, The Oilers have been plagued span midway through the first who got a break after making a with injuries themselves this period, Ilya Bryzgalov stopped ing opportunities in the final suspended for two games for a franchise-record 23 consecu-season. Edmonton players have 27 shots and the Phoenix two periods. hit on Chicago’s Brian tive starts. missed 410 games with Coyotes beat the Tampa Bay Fiddler’s goal came on a Campbell. Ovechkin will also 
St. Louis flopped in its first injuries, compared to 225 last Lightning Tuesday night. beautiful pass into the slot from miss Thursday’s game at home game since Feb. 13, season. The Oilers are 5-21-3 The victory moved Phoenix Lee Stempniak and in less than Carolina. dropping to an NHL-worst 12-overall since Jan. 1, 1-15-1 on five points behind Western 2 minutes the Coyotes got their Nicklas Backstrom, Eric Fehr, 17-5 at the Scottrade Center, the road since mid-December Conference-leading San Jose in second goal when Lombardi Brendan Morrison, Jason and the Avalanche outscored and have a league-worst 49 the Pacific Division. The took a pass in the center from Chimera and Alexander Semin them 21-8 over four games for points for the season. Coyotes began the night tied Wojtek Wolski and slipped a each scored for the Capitals, their first season sweep since Edmonton was looking for its with Vancouver for third place backhand shot past Antero who beat Florida for the sixth 2005-06. second victory over the Wild in overall in the conference, but Nittymaki. time this season. 
Blues goalie Chris Mason two weeks and was in decent the Northwest Division-leading Todd Fedoruk scored the lone Steven Reinprecht and Kamil gave up five goals on 24 shots shape when Potulny scored a 5-Canucks still hold the third Lightning goal and Nittymaki Kreps got goals for the after coming in 0-3 with a 7.22 on-3 goal to tie the score at 2 seed. had 26 saves. Panthers. Michal Repik also goals-against average against early in the third period. The loss left the Lightning six added a late Florida goal with Colorado. Kobasew put the Wild back in points behind Boston for the Capitals 7, Panthers 3 1:33 left in the game. 
Budaj was especially strong front 3 minutes later and final playoff spot in the Eastern Brooks Laich scored twice Jose Theodore stopped 34 in the third period while the Havlat then beat goalie Jeff Conference. The Bruins defeat-and five other Washington play-shots for the Capitals, while Blues had sustained pressure Deslauriers a short while later ed Carolina 5-2 earlier ers had goals to lift the short-Florida’s Tomas Vokoun made and outshot Colorado 14-6, but to put the game out of reach. Tuesday. handed Capitals to a win over 16 saves before he was Chris Stewart’s late goal put it Wild goalie Josh Harding was Bryzgalov faced back-to-back the Florida Panthers on replaced in the second period. out of reach. once again impressive in place Lightning power plays in the Tuesday night. Scott Clemmensen finished the 
Time is running out on the of Backstrom. Harding stopped third period but held strong The Capitals were without game in goal for the Panthers, Blues’ bid for a second straight 34 shots and hasn’t lost at and turned away several scor-star Alex Ovechkin, who was stopping 16 shots. late-season rally to make the home since Feb. 14, 2009. He’s playoffs. St. Louis is in 10th also stopped 113 of the last 118 place in the Western shots he’s faced. Conference, seven points behind eighth-place Detroit Predators 4, Flyers 3 with 13 games to go. Martin Erat scored the only 
Steen tied the mark set by goal of the shootout to lead the Greg Paslawski on Oct. 29, Nashville Predators to a victory 1985, against Washington when over the Philadelphia Flyers on Budaj stopped his shot from the Tuesday night. left boards but the rebound Steve Sullivan, Erat, and appeared to deflect off Jerred Smithson scored for Avalanche forward T.J. Nashville. Jeff Carter, Simon Galiardi. Gagne, and Chris Pronger had 
Colorado asserted itself later the Flyers goals. in the period, with Mueller get-Predators goaltender Pekka ting a power play goal and Rinne turned aside all three assisting on Milan Hejduk’s Flyers attempts in the shootout. 18th of the season for a 2-1 Rinne finished with 42 saves. lead. The 21-year-old Mueller The Predators carried a two-has scored in all seven games goal lead into the final period, since being acquired from the but goals by Gagne and Coyotes, totaling four goals and Pronger 3:04 apart tied the seven assists after having 17 game late in the third. points in 54 games with Carter opened the scoring at Phoenix. 1:21 of the opening period with 
The Avalanche went ahead by a wrist shot from the low slot two on Stastny’s rebound goal that beat Rinne high to the and Mueller’s eighth of the sea-glove side. It was Carter’s 33rd son in a span of 1:29 midway goal of the season. through the second period. Sullivan tied it just over three David Perron scored on a minutes later when he tapped rebound at 11:06 to cut the in a puck just underneath the deficit to one. pad of Philadelphia goaltender 
Michael Leighton. Wild 4, Oilers 2 Erat gave the Predators a 2-1 
Chuck Kobasew scored the lead at 7:04 of the first. Dan go-ahead goal early in the third Hamhuis kept the puck in at period and the Minnesota Wild the blue line and passed to beat the Edmonton Oilers for Jason Arnott on top of the left the 13th straight time at home circle. Arnott sent a backhand on Tuesday night. pass to Erat, and he beat 
Andrew Ebbett, Antti Leighton with a wrist shot over Miettinen and Martin Havlat the glove for his 20th goal of also scored for the Wild, win-the season. ners of three straight overall. Arnott has assists in his past 
Marc Pouliot and Ryan three games and points in five Potulny scored for the last-of his past six. place Oilers, who finished a Leighton left the game just four-game road trip without a under three minutes after the win. Erat goal with a high ankle 
The Wild’s home winning sprain. He was replaced by 



Wednesday, March 17, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NBA 

LeBron’s slow start does not slow down Cavs 
Jason Richardson, high-scoring Suns torch Timberwolves for highest point total since last March in 38-point rout 
points, Antawn Jamison had 15 
Associated Press 
points and 10 rebounds, and 

AUBURN HILLS, Mich. — reserve Jawad Williams added 10 LeBron James was shaky early points. and spectacular late. James missed 10-of-15 shots 
James had 29 points, 12 over the first three quarters and rebounds and 12 assists for his was 5 for 7 in the final one as he fourth triple-double of the season, added four assists and three lifting the Cleveland Cavaliers to a rebounds to his total for his 28th 113-101 victory over the Detroit career triple-double. Pistons on Tuesday night. “In the fourth quarter, we made 
“Every point, rebound and our mark,” he said. “That’s close-assist was needed,” Cavs coach out time for me.” Mike Brown said. He said triple-doubles are 
The final score was relatively “absolutely” his favorite accom­lopsided, but the game wasn’t. plishment other than winning. There were 10 lead changes and “That means you’re doing 21 ties, the last one with 4:44 left. everything your team needs to 
The Cavs closed the game by win basketball games,” James outscoring Detroit 19-7, thanks in said. “That is one of the best large part to James. things you can have as an individ-
He set up Mo Williams for a ual.” tiebreaking 3-pointer with a Adding to his highlight reel, sharp pass from the top of the key James had a three-point play that to the right corner, then grabbed ended with a layup after a rebound, charged up the court Tayshaun Prince’s foul just inside and made a drop pass to the 3-point line. Anderson Varejao for a five-point “I’m not surprised by any call in cushion. the NBA any more, but you also 
The Pistons wouldn’t go away, have to give him some credit,” pulling within three points three Bynum said. “There’s probably no times, before James blocked a one else on Earth who could have shot and made consecutive even gotten a shot off like that.” jumpers to seal the win. Cleveland has won four in a row 
“The guy’s not human,” said and lost only one of its last 11 Detroit’s Will Bynum, adding he games, improving to an NBA-best thought James got away with 53-15. said Charlie Villanueva, who two at halftime and by one enter-son high with six 3-pointers. Steve goaltending on his layup with 1 Richard Hamilton had 24 points scored 16 points. “It’s encourag-ing the final period. Nash had 13 points and 14 1/2 minutes left. “When he gets and was one of six Pistons who ing to see us compete like this, but “We know we can play with any assists, nine of them in the open-rolling, you just want to try to stop scored in double figures. it is still another loss.” team in the league, and tonight ing period. his teammates and hope that’s Detroit has dropped lost three Prince had 15 points and proved that again,” Bynum said. The game matched two of the enough.” straight and 10 of 12. matched a season high with eight “We just have to play like this and bottom three teams in terms of 
Those teammates led the way The Pistons, unlike recent assists, Bynum had 12 points, finish the games.” points allowed this season. The when the superstar had as many games, were very competitive rookie Jonas Jerebko scored 10 difference was the Suns have a lot turnovers (three) as points late in until James took over in the points and Jason Maxiell had 10 Suns 152, Timberwolves 114 more scorers than woeful the first quarter and just five fourth quarter. points and 15 rebounds. It’s an NBA law of physics: Put Minnesota does. points at halftime. “We were trying to redeem our-The score was tied after the the highest-scoring team in the “We weren’t making that effort. 
Williams finished with 20 selves, so this is very frustrating,” first quarter, the Pistons led by league against arguably the worst They were playing a lot harder defense and watch the score-than we were,” Rambis said. board light up like the Fourth of “With a team that is in synch the July. way that they’re in, they under-
Jason Richardson scored 27 stand how to move the basketball, points and Amare Stoudemire 25, the know where their options and then sat with the rest of the their outlet passes are. They’re Phoenix starters while the Suns’ just too good.” reserves finished off a rout of It was not the first time this Minnesota on Monday night in the kind of thing happened to highest-scoring game by an NBA Minnesota. The Timberwolves team this season. had matched a franchise record 
Lou Amundson matched his by giving up 146 points in a 41­career high with 20 points as point loss to Golden State last Nov. Phoenix sent the Timberwolves to 9. their 10th straight loss and 16th “It’s just embarrassing to let a in the last 17 games. team score that many points and 
The Suns, with eight players in still lose by that many points,” double figures, shot 56 percent Minnesota’s Ryan Gomes said. from the field and 15 of 31 from The Suns overwhelmed the 3-point range to win their ninth in Timberwolves’ ever-shaky 12 games. defense to take a 79-61 halftime 
“We’re just trying to gear up for lead. It was the second-most the last 15 games,” Phoenix coach points scored in a half in the NBA Alvin Gentry said, “have a pace this season, eclipsed only by the that we’re comfortable with.” 80-point second half for 
Corey Brewer scored 21 for the Milwaukee against Golden State Timberwolves, who set a fran-on Nov. 14. chise record for most points Phoenix hadn’t scored this allowed in a game. many in a half since getting 80 in 
“Well, that’s certainly what hap-the second half in its 154-point pens when you don’t play any game at Golden State almost defense,” Timberwolves coach exactly a year ago, on March 15, Kurt Rambis said. 2009. 
Phoenix pulled alone into sixth The Suns shot 67 percent in the place in the tight scramble for first half (33 of 49), led by playoff positioning in the West. Richardson’s 21 points, including The Suns trail No. 5 Oklahoma 5 of 6 3-pointers. Nash had 11 City by a half-game and No. 4 points on 5-of-6 shooting and 11 Utah by 1 1/2 games. It was a per-assists in the first half. fect night to rest the starters in Richardson made two 3s and preparation for Friday night’s Nash one in the final two minutes home game against the Jazz. of the half as the Suns twice built 
“And you know that will be a a 20-point lead before Jonny 
physical game,” Gentry said. Flynn’s baseline jumper at the This one certainly wasn’t. buzzer made it 79-61. The lead “It was a lot of fun,” Stoudemire reached 29 in the third quarter 
said. “It was so much fun when and a whopping 41 in the fourth. the starters were able to rest Leandro Barbosa returned to there in the fourth. We’ll take the Suns after undergoing surgery that.” to remove a cyst in his right wrist 
Richardson, who scored 15 in and missing 23 games. He had the first quarter, matched his sea-seven points in 16 minutes. 



page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 17, 2010 
SMC GOLF 

Saint Mary’s ties for second in N.C. 
Observer Staff Report 
No. 3 Saint Mary’s traveled to warm Fayetteville, N.C., to open its spring slate with a highly competitive meet on Friday. The Belles finished tied for second with familiar MIAA opponent No. 10 Olivet, falling to No. 1 Methodist on its home course. 
The Monarchs’ four best scoring players shot a com­bined 331, while the Comets’ and Belles’ four best each shot a combined 347. Sophomore Natalie Matuszak led the fall MIAA champion Belles with a round of 79, earning medalist honors for the day’s low round in the process. Junior Mary Kate Boyce took 86 strokes and junior Rosie O’Connor was close behind with a score of 
89. Sophomore Christine Brown carded a 93, while senior captain Perri Hamma had a round of 101 that did not count towards the team’s overall score. 
Holly Shupe was Methodist’s low scorer, taking one fewer stroke than Matuszak, and Lauren Campbell paced Olivet with an 84. Playing as individ­uals for the Belles were soph­omore Megan Ryan, who had a 91, and freshman Cara Kielty, who finished 18 holes in 95 strokes. 
Saint Mary’s next competes in a week and half when it travels to Georgetown, Texas, to participate in the Southwestern Invitational, hosted by No. 12 Southwestern. 
MEN’S GOLF 

Fortner leads Irish to second title of season 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame fought through horrible weather Friday to claim first-place in the inau­
g u r a l  B r a n d o n  D u n e s  
C h a m p i o n s h i p  i n B a n d o n ,  
Ore.  

The Irish entered the tour­nament favored among the seven teams entered. 
The weather wreaked such havoc upon 

play that the “To come back at this also earned tournament point in our season him recogni ­was shortened tion as the Big 
and earn a victory
from 54 to 36 East’s golfer of 
holes. The gives our guys that the week. Irish opened great feeling again.” “[Fortner] the tournament came back this with around of semester
Jim Kubinski 
317 Thursday, working hard-good enough to Irish coach er than he whole,” Kubinski said. “To come back at this point in our season and earn a victory gives our guys that great feel­ing again.” 
Senior Doug Fortner led Notre Dame, claiming individ­ual medalist honors for his first career win. Fortner opened the tournament with a first-round 77, putting him in third place. A second ­round 73 landed Fortner a final score of 8-over and the victory, and it 
put the team in first place. A tournament -best round of 305 in the second and final round sealed the victory, with Notre Dame finishing 12 strokes ahead of second ­place Idaho. 
“I was proud of the way our team accepted the target on our backs and went out in ridiculously difficult condi­tions ... rain coming in side­ways, hail at times and wind gusting over 40-50 mph at times to earn a win,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. 
The win marked the second title the Irish have claimed this year, along with the Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic on Oct. 6. 
“Our second win was a great boost for our team as a ever has, ” 
Kubinski said. “The results are no surprise to me.” 
Senior Josh Sandman fin­ished two strokes behind Fortner to claim third place. Sandman shot an even-par 72 in the second round, tying for the lowest round in the tour­nament. 
Sophomore Tom Usher claimed ninth-place at 16­over, and sophomores Max Scodro and Chris Walker rounded out the Irish scoring by tying for 19th place. 
Notre Dame tees off next on March 26-28 in the Spring Break Championship in Delray Beach, Fla. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles notch four wins in Orlando 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Over a long Spring Break trip to Orlando, Fla., the Belles claimed four victories, while only dropping one match. 
Saint Mary’s (6-2) topped Ursinus, Carthage, Wartburg and St. Francis (Ill.) and lost to Wesleyan. 
The trip not only allowed the Belles to work on those facets of their game that needed improvement, such as doubles play and shot-making, but the players were also able to develop a sense of “team” that was still in the making. 
“I think a trip like this only makes the team stronger,” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. “We figure out ways to motivate each other on the court, and learn what helps our teammates the most. Our team is coming together as a unit the more they are togeth­er.” 
Heading into the trip, the Belles stood at 2-1, and Campbell stressed the impor­tance of improvement in their doubles play and conditioning. By going 4-1, the Belles proved they have been hard at work in doing so. 
“We are getting stronger in doubles,” Campbell said. “Our pairings are communicating better and improving as dou­bles teams.” 
The Belles dominated Wartburg, 8-1, shut out St. Francis and Ursinus, 9-0, and won a close one over Carthage . One more match was 
“We still have to get 
scheduled es,” Campbell 
against much better and raise said. Wheaton, but our expectations After the it was can-strong showing 
individually and as a
celed due to in Orlando, the rain. The one team.” Belles need to loss came in continue to a close improve heading 
Dale Campbell
match to into league play. 
Belles coach
Wesleyan, 5­4, and Campbell made it clear the Belles want more out of them­selves. 
“I believe that our players want another chance at them, which is the attitude we need to have,” Campbell said. “To say that we are satisfied would not be correct.” 
The Belles had a solid tour­nament all around as a team, but Junior Jillian Hurley stood out. Hurley went 10 matches without losing, winning all five of her individual matches at the No. 1 spot and all five of her doubles matches with partner Mary Therese Lee. 
Despite having only one sen­ior on the squad, Campbell said the Belles showed a great deal of maturity in quickly picking themselves up after the loss to Wesleyan to beat Wartburg. 
“A veteran team seems to do 
a better job of taking each match individual­ly and getting up for those match­
“We still have 
to get much bet­ter and raise our expectations individually and as a team,” Campbell said. “We certainly must realize that we can still improve physically, mentally, and emotionally. We have some tough teams in our con­ference and have some strong non-conference matches ahead of us.” 
Up next for the Belles is a matchup Saturday with Indiana Wesleyan, a team that beat them last year. 
“We need to use that as motivation and expect to play our best against them,” Campbell said. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 



Wednesday, March 17, 2010 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 17, 2010 
Bayliss 
continued from page 24 
big first serve, penetrating ground strokes and counters better than he did even a year ago. More than anything he has a real presence on the court and great determina­tion.” 
The Irish fell behind early when USF (5-6) earned the doubles point to take an early 1-0 lead. 
The Irish avoided the sweep with a win at No. 3 doubles as Anderson and fellow junior Dan Stahl defeated Frank and Romain Deridder, 8-2. 
“The loss to South Florida was difficult,” Bayliss said. “Casey Watt was unable to play, as he awoke vomiting due to food poisoning. We had to move everyone up a spot, but still were in a position to win. David Anderson led 4-3 in the third set and we had chances to win at both No. 1 and No. 2 doubles.” 
With Watt out, Havens fell at 
Midwest 
continued from page 24 
two per event. This will be the third consecutive season in which the Irish have quali­fied 12 fencers for the cham­pionship round. Other teams sending 12 fencers on to the next round include Penn State, Princeton, Harvard and St. John’s. 
Ohio State, which defeated the Irish by a narrow margin at nationals in 2008, will also be strongly represented next week. 
Notre Dame has shown both consistency and steady improvement throughout the year, defeating top competi-No. 1 singles by a score of 6-2, 6-3, to Wael Killani, while Adderley defeated Stahl at No. 2 singles, 6-3, 6-4. 
Freshman Blas Moros got the Irish on the board with a 6-4, 6-4 win at No. 5 singles. 
Junior captain Tyler Davis was able to pull the Irish with­in one with a three-set win at No. 6 singles, and then sopho­more Sam Keeton tied the score at three with a win at No. 5 singles. 
In the second match of the weekend, the Irish were able to defeat No. 19 Florida State (8-3) by a score of 4-3 after rallying from another 3-0 deficit. 
The Irish again dropped the doubles point and the No. 1 and No. 2 singles matches before taking the match. 
“The doubles was exciting,” Bayliss said. “We came back from a break down at No. 1 to win 8-6. [Watt’s] presence made a huge difference.” 
Havens and Watt were able to earn a win at No. 1 doubles but that was the only win the Irish would earn in doubles for the day. 
Stahl was able to defeat No. 55 Clint Bowles at No. 3 sin­gles, 7-5, 6-4. 
Anderson again played a key role in the match at No. 4 sin­gles, coming out on top this time in a three-set victory. 
“David knotted the score at 3-3 by winning a difficult third set over Conner Smith, a great ball striker,” Bayliss said. “That left things in the sub­stantial left hand of Sam Keeton, who showed remark­able poise for someone in his position. He handled the pres­sure very well, breaking serve three consecutive times to clinch. He played aggressively the entire match and was able to finish at the net often.” 
Keeton was able to clinch the victory for the Irish at No. 5 singles with another three-set victory. 
The Irish will next travel to Montgomery, Ala. for the Blue Gray National Classic, with their opening match Thursday. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 
tors within the region such as have had this season the Irish Northwestern and Ohio State will rely on their training not 
on 
numer ­

ous 
occa ­sions. 


“The competition is 
“I am 
stronger, but we are
happy that our team is stronger. Also we’ve had a progressing 
good season, we’re 
and that 
number one in the
there has been very country.” good coop ­eration 
Janusz Bednarski 
between 
Irish coach
upperclass­men and the younger fencers throughout the sea-we’ ve had a only this week but on an entire sea­son’s worth of experience in order to make a final, decisive push to the finish. 
“The com ­
petition is 
stronger, but 
we are 
s t r o n g e r, ” 
Bednarski 
said. “Also 
good season, 
son,” Bednarski said. we’re No. 1 in the country.” 
However, the road to the championship is never easy Contact Kevin Baldwin at and with the success they kbaldwi2@nd.edu 


ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
ND fnishes ahead of two top-25 opponents 
respectively on each of the 
By KEVIN BALDWIN 
two following days. 
Sports Writer 
Sophomore Becca Huffer led 
the Irish, shooting 224 total 
Notre Dame continued to for a 15th-place finish. improve its game at the LSU Senior Annie Brophy Tiger/Wave Classic at English showed improvement Turn Golf and Country Club in throughout the tournament, Louisiana over the weekend. leading the team with an 
The Irish fin­ even-par 72 per­ 
ished 13th in a  formance on the  
field that included many of the coun- “We’re coming along. We’ve  final day of com­petition. The Irish have  
try’s most elite  certainly got some  taken advantage  
p r o g r a m s , including tour­nament win- talent and we’ve had some good  of the recent mild weather in South Bend by  
ner No. 3  individual  holding their  
Auburn. The team’s  performances.”  first outdoor practice of the  
perf o r ma n c e is certain to  Susan Holt  year Tuesday. With two tour- 
help in the  Irish coach  n a m e n t s  
rankings as  r e m a i n i n g  
they came out  before postsea­ 

ahead of No. 4 Purdue and No. 21 Louisville. 
“We’re coming along,” Irish coach Susan Holt said. “We’ve certainly got some talent and we’ve had some good individ­ual performances.” 
The Irish shot a 310 in the opening round and followed it up with a 314 and 300 
Arlotta 
continued from page 24 
scored in the first three min­utes of the second quarter to open up a 5-2 advantage. Though the Pioneers added one shortly after, the Irish were no easier on the second Denver goalie, finding the back of the net twice more before halftime in order to head into the break with a comfortable 7-3 lead. Notre Dame came out of the locker room determined to keep its momentum and did just that, slotting home two more goals in the first five minutes of the second half. 
Before the Irish could run away with the game, Denver scored three times before the third period ended, and then once more early in the fourth quarter. Faced with a sud­denly tenuous 10-7 lead, Notre Dame reeled off four goals in just over five min­utes to close the day’s scor­son play, the players will look to sharpen their skills with more routine practice. 
Notre Dame next takes to the course for the Betsy Rawls Invitational in Austin, Texas on March 26. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu 
ing. 
Krebs, junior midfielder Zach Brenneman, and Rogers each recorded hat tricks for the Irish, while four other players scored for Notre Dame, including two goals from Hicks, who recorded a point for the 24th consecutive game. He leads the team with 16 points and 12 goals on the season. Igoe, freshman midfielder Steve Murphy, and Earl each had one goal. 
As has been a trend this season in both wins and loss­es, the Irish dominated the stat sheet, taking 37 shots to Denver’s 23 and winning 14 of 24 faceoffs, all by senior midfielder Trever Sipperly, who has won more than two-thirds of his faceoffs in the last three games. 
Notre Dame returns to action on Saturday, hosting Ohio State at 1 p.m. in Arlotta Stadium. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Cal 
continued from page 24 
Tournament.” 
Coyne said the final 10 minutes of the Cal game hinged on the team’s execu­tion, as will the rest of the season. 
“At the end of the day, it’s all about executing,” Coyne said. “It doesn’t matter what you think or what you feel, you have to go out there and get the job done.” 
The Irish return to the field when they travel to Boston to face Boston University Saturday. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  23  
24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  41  
42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  58  59  
60  61  62  63  
64  65  66  
67  68  69  


Wednesday, March 17, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
67 Lock name 
68 Some blood bank technicians 
69 Some ooze 
Down 
1 Palestinian group2 Napoleon'spunishment
3 Mrs. F. Scott Fitzgerald4 Coppertone
rating: Abbr. 
5 Murder method in Christie's “A Pocket Full of Rye”
6 Aimless 7 Oxidizes 8 Head doctor, for
short? 9 Scan 10 Not as bright 11 Taking care of business 12 It's “bustin' out all over,” in song
13 1976 GregoryPeck film, with“The” 
19 Zero 
21 Specializedvocabulary
25 Daly of “Judging
Amy”
26 Little bite 
29 Seller's caveat 
30 Concert 
promoter's figure
31 Ice cream brand 
32 Whole lot 
33 Small dam 
34 No more than 
35 Subj. of a certain conspiracy 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Ed Sessa  
38 Motor Trend job 39 Aware of  48 French physicistAndré  55 Brand of facial moisturizer  
40 Saloon selections 41 French formal dance 46 Curtis of cosmetics 47 Organiccompound  49 ___ of bad news 51 Lens setting 52 Jason's shipbuilder, inmyth 53 Chichi shopping area in Tokyo 54 Fit out  56 Result of a bighit, maybe 57 Robbie's daredevil dad 61 Lord's Prayeradjective 62 Grp. behindsome '60s strikes  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. 

Across 
1 Tassled topper 4 Alley pickups 10 Martial arts 
school 14 Fire truck item 15 Nowheresville 16 One for the 
money? 17 Up to, for short 18 Next up 20 Alan who played
TV's Hawkeye 22 Host's request 23 Not yet hard 24 What a 
compassionlessperson has 27 Ibsen's “Peer ___” 28 C, say 32 Theatrical faint 35 Somme one 36 Bummed out 37 Balance point 

42 Be indisposed 43 Plastic ___ Band 44 Hits with a 
beam, as to remove a tattoo 45 Sauna feature 48 The good son 

50 [Read no further] 55 Spotted cat 58 Place that might
feature a sauna 59 “ER” actor La Salle 60 Billets-doux … or 18-, 24-, 37­and 50-Across all together? 63 Animal whose name has a 

silent initial 64 Mass conclusion 65 Bolstered, with 
“up” 66 Six-Day War weapon 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 



JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Wednesday, March 17, 2010 page 24 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

New home, more wins 
Arlotta Stadium opens with three hat tricks 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
No. 3 Notre Dame christened Arlotta Stadium in style with a 14-7 win over Denver Tuesday, and in doing so, the Irish snapped their two-game skid. Seven different players scored for the Irish in a victo­ry that was one of Notre Dame’s most comfortable of the season. 

The Pioneers (3-4) opened the scoring with a goal just a few minutes after the opening faceoff, but the Irish (4-2) used goals by senior attack Neal Hicks and sophomore attack Sean Rogers to take a 2-1 lead just more than five minutes into the game. After Denver tied the game, Notre Dame senior attack Colin Igoe scored, and then senior mid­fielder Grant Krebs and junior midfielder David Earl each MAGGIE O’BRIEN/The Observer 
Junior midfielder Zach Brenneman makes a move during Notre Dame’s 14-7 victory over see ARLOTTA/page 22 Denver Tuesday. Brenneman was one of three Irish players to record a hat trick in the game. 

FENCING 
ND takes Midwest Regional 
By KEVIN BALDWIN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame dominated the Midwest Regional over the weekend to bring its record to 68 -0 for the combined men’s and women’s teams. The performance allowed the top-ranked Irish to send the maximum-allotted 12 fencers to the national tournament. 
“We fenced pretty well dur­ing regionals, we have some gold medals and others but the most important thing is that we qualified 12 fencers,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. “It will be very interest­ing. It’s an unusually hard field so we can expect a lot of excitement and drama.” 
In the championship round, the men’s and women’s teams may each qualify up to six fencers and no more than 
see MIDWEST/page 22 


WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Notre Dame rebounds from loss with win over California 
at Cal. ferent style of play when they With 10 minutes remaining, team’s goals rather than indi-
By MATT ROBISON 
“We weren’t ready to play,” visited California. A handful of the Irish called a timeout to vidual statistics. 
Sports Writer 
Coyne said of the loss. calls that did not go their way, reorganize. From there, the If history repeats itself, the 
“[Dartmouth] came in really a hectic pace that they were game was “never in doubt,” Irish will use the win over 

No. 11 Notre Dame dropped inspired.” not quite used to and a three-Coyne said. California as a springboard a 12-8 heartbreaker to then-Despite being disappointed goal deficit with 10 minutes to The Irish managed to pull into the heart of their sched-No. 20 Dartmouth over break by a “flat” performance on the play pinned the Irish up the game to a tie, then Notre ule. but rebounded with a come-attacking end of the field, against a wall. But they did Dame scored first in overtime “In the past, the California from-behind 14-12 victory Coyne said she was happy not crumble, and Coyne said and never looked back. game has been a spark to a over California Saturday. with the way the defense and she was pleased with the way “After the timeout, we good season,” Coyne said. “I 
Irish coach Tracy Coyne said goalkeeping played against the Irish handled themselves. calmed down,” Coyne said. feel good about our chances she was upset over the loss the Big Green. “I was really happy with the “We were more composed and to win the Big East and but was proud of the Irish (3-The adversity did not stop win,” Coyne said. “Our play-handled everything better.” advancing through the NCAA 
1) in the way they adjusted to with the loss, as the Irish ers showed a lot of charac-Coyne also attributed the a different West Coast game were forced to adjust to a dif-ter.” win to a stern focus on the see CAL/page 22 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish record split over break 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish split their two matches over Spring Break, as they fell to Big East rival South Florida before recovering with a victory over Florida State. 
In the loss on March 13, Notre Dame (7-7) rallied from a 3-0 deficit to tie the match at 3-3 before junior David Anderson lost to Peter Frank 4-6, 6-2, 6-4, at No. 3 singles. 
“David Anderson has come on strong for us as the season has progressed,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “He has added good all-court skills and can finish at the net, some­thing that was problematic for him as a freshman. He has a 
see BAYLISS/page 22 

FOOTBALL 
Blue-Gold Game will cap spring practices 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame announced the dates for Brian Kelly’s first spring football prac­tices as Irish coach Tuesday. 
Notre Dame will practice 15 times over five weeks beginning March 26. Kelly and the Irish will practice every Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday through the Blue -Gold Spring Football Game on April 24. 
The team will have April 2-3 off due to Easter week­end. 
Weekday practices will be at 3:15 p.m., and Saturday practices will be at 9 a.m. 
The 81st annual Blue-Gold Game will kick off at 1:30 p.m. 
Included in the 15 prac­tices is the 2010 Notre Dame Football Coaches Clinic, which will be held April 16-17. Participants at the clinic will watch the Irish in two practices, and participate in other activi­ties with Kelly and the Irish coaching staff. 
Along with Kelly’s first coaching on a Notre Dame field, of particular interest to Irish fans will be the sta­tus of sophomore quarter­back Dayne Crist. Crist suf­fered a torn ACL during Notre Dame’s 40-14 victory over Washington State on Oct. 31. 






