the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Knott wins energy competition 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
After 30 days of commitment to dimmed lights, taking the stairsandunpluggingcellphone chargers and game systems, Knott Hall won Notre Dame’s third annual Dorm Energy CompetitionTuesday. 
The energy competition, host­edbytheOfficeofSustainability, began Nov. 1. This year focused on reducing “vampire energy,” the power that is sucked by most electronic devices even whentheyareturnedoff. 
Knott receivedthe $500grand prizefortheir26percentenergy reduction. Zahm and Lewis tied forsecondplacewith21percent energyreductioneach. 

“All the dorms together saved 13percent,equivalentto $9,250 or 259,000 pounds of carbon dioxide emissions,” Rachel Novick, education and outreach COLEMAN COLLINS/The Observer 
Knott Hall won this year’s Dorm Energy Competition, held annually by the Offce of see KNOTT/page 5 Sustainability. Knott took frst place by reducing its energy usage by 26 percent. 


Crowder to perform at College 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Fox News’ youngest contribu­tor, Steven Crowder, will be vis­iting Saint Mary’s College Thursday, College Republican president Elizabeth Molnarsaid. 
Crowder will speakin Little Theatre in Moreau Hall at 7:30 p.m. Thursday. The event is free and opentothepublic. 

see CROWDER/page 4 


Freshmen launch site aimed at non-Greek life 



By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
A group of freshmen from Knott Hall aim to embrace their status of being “Compulsory GDI’s”withthelaunchofthenew website,TotalGDIMove.org. 
GDI, or God Damn Independent, is the name stu­dents in the Greek system use to refer to those not in a fraternity orsorority. 
Thestudentsmodeledtheirsite on the increasingly popular web­site TotalFratMove.com. On this site,fraternitybrotherspostcom­ments that embody the charac­teristics of the typical fraternity brother. 
On the website, at the end of each post is the tagline TFM, implying that the comment is a classiconesomeoneinafraterni­tywouldsay. 
see SITE/page 5 


Class studies homelessness 

By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 

For many Notre Dame stu­dents,the concept ofhomeless­ness in America may only rep­resent a social problem far removed from their lives, but senior Emily Salvaterra said she confronts the reality of the issueonaweeklybasis. 
As students in Professor Benedict Giamo’s American Studies course, titled “Confronting Homelessness in the U.S.,” Salvaterra and her peers commit at least three hours per weekto volunteering at the Center for the Homeless inSouthBend. 
“The whole idea of this class is to bring a national social issue into a local perspective,” Salvaterra said. “Theexperien­tiallearningcomponentisreal­ly important to understanding homelessness, and you don’t get the chance to do things like thisineveryclass.” 
Thecourse,whichGiamohas taught since his arrival at Notre Dame in 1990, examines the conditions of extreme poverty and homelessness within the context of American culture and society. It studies 
see CLASS/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Alumnae offer book club page 3  ND grad’s memoir inspires movie 8  Men’s basketball beats Indiana State page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesday, December 1, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD NAME A COLLEGE FOOTBALL BOWL, WHAT WOULD YOU NAME IT?

THE OBSERVER 






P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Meaghan Veselik Alicia Smith Chris Allen Melissa Flanagan Cory Bernard 
Graphics Scene 
Sofia Iturbe Jordan Gambale 
Photo Viewpoint 
Coleman Collins Patricia Fernandez 
OFFBEAT 

Roadside secret santa along N.J. highway 
LITTLE EGG HARBOR TOWNSHIP, N.J. — An annual Christmas mystery is playing itself out again along a busy New Jersey highway. 
A secret Santa is once again surreptitiously hang­ing ornaments from a large pine tree by the side of the Garden State Parkway in the dead of night. 
A gold star was hanging from the boughs of the tree Tuesday morning. 
It’s the fourth year in a row that the ornaments have shown up on the same tree in the south­bound lanes in a sparsely populated area of Little Egg Harbor Township. 
Caroline Dikibl  David Kirkland  Livia Lin  Marcel Frenkel  Mindy Zhen  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  junior  sophomore  
Pasquerilla East  St. Edward’s  Welsh Family  Alumni  Welsh Family  

“The Supreme “The Banana “The Ice Cream “Disney Bowl” “The Rice Bowl” Bowl” Bowl” Bowl” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

No one has come forward and acknowledged deco­rating the tree. The New Jersey Turnpike Authority, which maintains the road, has said it isn’t responsi­ble. 
The ornaments appear gradually, starting with one or two, and eventually growing to about a dozen by Christmas. 
N.M. clerk foils robberies with package of pastries 
DEMING, N.M. — Robbers, beware of clerks wielding pastries. 
Police in Deming, N.M., say a clerk foiled a robbery last week when she hit the culprit on the back of the head with a package of empanadas, a type of Latin American pastry. 
Police say the masked man didn’t say a word when he grabbed the cash register at Amigo's Mexican Food and tried to flee. 
Deming police Capt. Brandon Gigante says the man dropped the register when the clerk threw the pastries and hit him. 
Barbara Orquiz, who owns Amigo's with her husband, Arnold, says the cash register's cord got caught when the man tried to take it. The clerk saw him grab it, screamed and got him with the empanadas. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The program “How About Doing Senior Thesis Research in Europe?” will take place today at 5 p.m. in 329 DeBartolo Hall. Student presenters will share their experiences with preparing and conducting thesis research in various European countries. 
TransPose dance collective will put on their Fall Concert, Dante’s Inferno, today in the Snite Museum of Art. The performance is free and will begin at 7 p.m. Audience members will follow Dante from his entrance to Hell through the 9 Circles. 
The workshop “Grant Writing -101. Thinking Outside the Box” will take place today at 8 p.m. in 129 DeBartolo Hall. The work­shop will focus on discover­ing research ideas, develop­ing grants proposals, and finding funding with Dr. Cecilia Lucero and Professor Dan Lindley. 
Pasquerilla East Hall’s Annual Signature Event “Silent Night, Silent Auction” will take place tomorrow from 6 to 9 p.m. Attendants can bid on Christmas baskets with the proceeds going to St. Margaret’s House and Building Tomorrow. The event will be in the Ballroom 
of LaFortune Student Center. 
The Jingle Jog will begin tomorrow at 7 p.m. in front of South Dining Hall. The race is 5K and is sponsored by the Alumni/Student Club. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



28 25 HIGH 3234 3638
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


22 22 LOW 2323 2219 







Wednesday, December 1, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




SMC alumnae to host book web chat 

By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
In an attempt to unify the campus community, the Alumnae Board has estab­lished the One Book, One Saint Mary’s book club, which will be meeting virtually today at 8 p.m., according to Lisa Maxbauer Price, a member of Saint Mary’s Alumnae Board and 1999 graduate. 
“Since 1998, many commu­nities throughout the world have adopted this idea — orig­inated by the Washington Center for the Book — of unity through the reading of litera­ture,” Price said. 
The club will be meeting at www.FriendFeed.com to chat via the Internet about the book, “The History of Love” by Nicole Krauss, she said. Participants can then search “One Book, One Saint Mary’s” and discuss the book together from anywhere in the country. 
“As Saint Mary’s women, we feel a real bond with one another,” Price said. “But sometimes it’s hard for alums scattered across the country to feel connected to one another, or to the students and the campus they love so much. This program seemed like an easy way for everyone to have a common, shared experience 
— regardless of our gradua­tion year.” 
The Board has created a Facebook page for the event, and Price said they have 903 people who have joined the group so far. She said a major­ity of the members are alum­nae. 
“Several alumnae clubs around the nation, for exam­ple Grand Rapids, Mich., have already had events, book club meetings for the chosen book: The History of Love,” Price said. 
Dr. Ted Billy, professor of English at the College, will use the book in one of his English classes next semester, she said. 
Price said the Alumnae Board received recognition from College President Carol Ann Mooney, who sent a letter to the alumnae. 
“I think the concept of ‘One Book, One Saint Mary’s’ is an excellent one and I fully sup­port your efforts. This book has received such excellent reviews that I look forward to reading it very soon,” Mooney saidin the letter. 
Price also said the book club is appealing because it is a simple, no cost way for the campus community to connect. 
“The alumnae board agreed it was an easy, free way to connect people participating in the program, whether they’re on campus or halfway across the country,” Price said. “If people enjoy the web chat, it will be very easy for the alum­nae board to host more throughout the year.” 
The Board is hoping to make this an annual event and fea­ture alumnae writers in the future, she said. 
The event is not limited to Saint Mary’s community mem­bers, but can also be accessed by Notre Dame and Holy Cross alumni, students and faculty members. 
Depending on results, Price said the Alumnae Board will continue events like this one. 
“If people enjoy the web chat, it will be very easy for the Alumnae Board to host more throughout the year,” Price said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 



History of Science Society comes to ND 
Special to The Observer 
The History of Science Society (HSS) has arrived at Notre Dame — a move that promises to benefit the socie­ty, the University’s History and Philosophy of Science (HPS) program and Notre Dame’s science programs by providing new opportunities for collaboration among soci­ety members, faculty and stu­dents. 
HSS, which relocated from the University of Florida this fall, is the world’s largest society dedicated to under­standing science, technology and medicine, and their inter­actions with society in histori­cal context. The organization has more than 3,000 mem­bers. 
The society’s work “fits into Notre Dame’s mission to culti­vate an appreciation of human achievement while underscoring a desire to bet­ter the human condition,” said Robert Jay Malone, HSS executive director. “This way of thinking also motivates sci­entists, and so creates a com­mon goal between the human­ities and the sciences. 
“By nurturing this shared objective, HSS and Notre Dame hope to create an atmosphere where science is seen as a personal endeavor and not an objective practice removed from context, devoid of emotion and biases,” he said. “The history of science can serve as a kind of con­science for science, providing practitioners — as well as the public — with insights into how science operates and giv­ing examples of where it has given comfort and where it has startled us into new ways of thinking.” 
Don Howard, professor of philosophy and director of the HPS graduate program at Notre Dame, said he looks forward to partnering with the society to bring new con­ferences to campus, support future research, and give stu­dents more opportunity to learn from working scholars. Because HSS also serves the Philosophy of Science Association, he said, HPS will now benefit from having “the two biggest professional asso­ciations in the two areas cen­tral to our graduate program be housed at Notre Dame.” 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 1, 2010 

Student gov’t restructures elections 
Judicial Council discontinues dorm commissioners to increase efficiency 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Following a resolution passed by the Student Senate before Thanksgiving break, the Judicial Council is restructuring the Elections Committee, which is respon­sible for ensuring the fair­
ness of student government and Class Council elec ­tions. 
Judicial Council presi­dent Marcelo Perez said the existing com­mittee was less effective due to its large size and the fact that its mem­bers were spread across campus. 
“Two weeks before Thanksgiving break, we had that resolution passed to do 
away with the previous elec­tions committee that was in place, which consisted of the election commissioner from each of the dorms,” he said. “It was always hard to get them together.” 
The new election commit­tee, which will be significant­ly smaller, will assist in approving candidates for stu­dent government positions and dealing with accusations that may arise regarding can­
didates’ fitness  to  run  for  
office, Perez said.  
“ The  ne wl y  fo r me d  

Elections Committee, as out­lined in the constitution, will deal with the allegations that 
“Two weeks before Thanksgiving break, we had that resolution passed to do away with the previous elections committee that was in place, which consisted of the election commissioner from each of the dorms.” 
Marcelo Perez president Judicial Council 
come for­ward during the cam­paign sea­son and will help the vice president to run the elec­tions,” Perez said. “What we did was make it a smaller group so it might be easier to get them togeth­er.” 
The Judicial Council has sent out multipl e solicitations 
to the student body looking 
f o r  a p p li c ants  to  t h e  
reformed committee.  
“ We  wan t  t o  m ake  s u re  

anyone who wants to apply applies,” he said. “Sometimes if you send one e-mail people may not look at it.” 
Perez said he hopes more students applying to the com­mittee will result in a wider perspective when handling the campaign issues mem­bers face. 

“You need a committee that’s not too divided but at the same time you don’t want everyone having one single opinion,” he said. “That way, if it comes to an allegation, any interpretation of the con­stitution is made in a fair way, that it’s not just a one-sided interpretation.” 
The application to the Judicial Council is only the first step for students hoping to become part of the com­mittee. After the Judicial Council selects applicants, they need approval by the Council of Representatives, Perez said. 
The election committee falls under the Judicial Council’s responsibility of handling elections, which, paired with assisting students facing disciplinary proceed­ings, makes up the Council’s objectives as defined by its constitution, he said. 
“I believe in the constitu­tion it says the role of the Judicial Council is to run the elections as well as to help the student body with a bet­ter understanding of the rules as outlined in du Lac,” Perez said. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 

Crowder 
continued from page 1 
“The College Republicans try to bring in a speaker every year, and this year we really wanted a young, fresh, up-and-coming conservative voice to speak at Saint Mary’s,” Molnar said. 
According to Molnar, Crowder is known for his comedy and dis­cussions of current political issues on Fox News. 
“Steven is insightful, engaging and hilarious, which made him the perfect person to bring to our campus,” she said. 
Molnar said Crowder was fea­tured on “Geraldo at Large” on 
Fox News. In addition, Crowder won MySpace’s “So You Think You’re Funny” competi­tion. 
“Anyone and everyone is wel­come to attend the Steven Crowder event,” Molnar said. “We want to especially encourage all students from 

“Steven is insightful, engaging and hilarious, which made him the perfect person to bring to our campus.” 
Elizabeth Molnar president College Republicans 
Saint Mary’s, Notre Dame and Holy Cross to attend, as we feel it will be a fun event for stu­dents.” 
The event is co-sponsored by Saint Mary’s College Republicans and the SMC-TV club. 
“[The] SMC-TV club jumped on board once they heard that Steven frequently appears on TV, and they thought that co­sponsoring the event would allow for their club to get fur­ther insight to the world of tele­vision,” Molnar said. 
According to Molnar, the event aims to bring a conservative voice to the College to educate students. 
“We really wanted to bring in someone that our students could relate to, which made Steven a perfect candidate, as he is young, and has a very strong message, which is something all of us can relate to, or learn something from,” she said. 
Molnar said the College Republicans wanted to bring new ideas to Saint Mary’s College. 
“I think it’s important to have events like this because it brings a new voice to campus,” she said. “Regardless of what you 
may believe politically, open­ing yourself up to new ideas is something that is very impor­tant in develop­ing and strengthening your own beliefs.” 
Molnar said she believes the event will be enjoyable, and hopes students 
will attend the event. 
“I would just like to encourage everyone to attend for a night of fun and laughs,” she said. “Steven will be taking questions from the audience after his talk.” 
Molnar said College Republicans and the SMC-TV club will be hosting a small reception after the event. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 


Wednesday, December 1, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 

Class 
continued from page 1 
the issue from historical, socio­logical and economic perspec­tives. 
However, Giamo said the experiential learning aspect of the course is crucial to stu­dents’ grasp of homelessness as a real issue. 
“I think it’s very important for students to account for homelessness as an academic area and as a real, living pres­ence in contemporary society,” Giamo said. “Homelessness is still very much a social prob­lem, and it has not been ame­liorated.” 
Students sharpen their skills in integrating theory and prac­tice by writing journal entries about each volunteer experi­ence at the Center for the in a regular class.” 
Academically, the course covers the issue of homeless­ness from the late 19th-centu­ry to the present day, high­lighting the social and eco­nomic changes that con­tributed to shifts in patterns of homelessness in the U.S., Giamo said. 
He said he wanted to give his students a sense of the history of homelessness by studying the issue from its initial identi­fication as a social problem. For this reason, the first half of the course focuses on poverty and homelessness in New York City and other urban areas from the turn of the century to the 1970s. 
“The social and economic forces of the Civil War helped create conditions of urban poverty after the war,” Giamo said. “At the end of the centu­ry, social investigators encoun­tered the poor and homeless 


“I want students to
Homeless. in slums and 
They take on encounter and put a tenements, and various service they wrote 
face on
roles in their about it for a
homelessness.” 
work at the middle -class Center, includ-American audi­ing tutoring, Benedict Giamo ence.” overseeing chil-professor Giamo said dren’s activi-he covers 
American Studies
ties, working at the front desk or in the kitchen and partici­pating in after-school pro­grams for children. In general, Giamo said he encourages his students to interact with homelessness as much as pos­sible. 
“I want students to encounter and put a face on homelessness,” Giamo said. “The more students interact with the homeless, the more they will be able to understand individual stories of homeless­ness.” 
Salvaterra said she brought her previous experience as a summer intern at the Center for the Homeless into her aca­demic and practical under­standing of the issue during the course. 
“I’ve always been interested in issues of homelessness, so I went out of my way to take the class because I wanted to con­nect my academic pursuits with volunteering,” Salvaterra said. “Literally confronting homelessness at the shelter causes you to confront your own biases and learn about people in ways that you can’t homelessness 
from 1980 to the present in the second half of the course. 
According to Giamo, the importance and effectiveness of the experiential learning aspect of the course comes through in students’ documen­tary accounts of their experi­ences, which “forces them to integrate the objective, ethno­graphic dimension of the expe­rience with the subjective dimension — their own feel­ings and impressions about homelessness.” 
Giamo said students who have experience with the issue from their time studying abroad in London and Dublin now have intercultural ideas about homelessness. 
“It’s interesting because homelessness is a global prob­lem in advanced industrial countries,” Giamo said. “Local microanalysis is at the center of this course, but we are aware that homelessness is a national and global phenome­non.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 


Knott 
continued from page 1 
programs manager at the Office of Sustainability, said. “This is more than we have saved in any previous Dorm Energy Competition, which shows that we are getting broader partici­pation across the campus than ever before.” 
Knott Hall president Jared Stewart said the Energy Competition was an opportunity to bring the residents of Knott together for a common goal. Stewart said Knott Hall govern­ment, especially Energy Commissioner freshman Jack McLaren, worked to inform resi­dents about different ways to save energy. 
“We put up a lot of signs on all the floors about taking the stairs, not using the elevators and we also put signs up throughout the stairs thanking people for taking the stairs and encouraging them to do so,” he said. 
Stewart said Knott also saved energy by unplugging all elec­tronics other than the refrigera­tor over Thanksgiving, using cold water in the washing machines, and leaving lights off whenever possible. 
“[We encouraged] people to turn off their lights when they leave the room. I think that some of the key areas where we kept the lights off were the bath­rooms, definitely,” he said. “The hallways we had dimmer. On the first floor, we kept the lights off completely unless they were needed.” 
He said he was impressed by the commitment and dedication his fellow Knott residents had to the competition. 
“Throughout this whole month I’ve only seen people using the elevator a few times, and pretty much everyone was on board with it,” he said. “Sometimes people would even be in the room with the lights off.” 
Despite the significant strides students have taken to conserve energy over the last month, Novick said it is important to continue the same energy-saving practices into the future. 
“Students can cut down energy consumption by sharing a refrig­erator with a whole suite, and by keeping appliances unplugged when they’re not in use, like chargers, stereos, TVs and game systems,” she said. “Clothes dry­ers also take a lot of energy so hang-drying clothes is a great way to save energy.” 
Novick said the plastic water bottles found everywhere on campus are wasteful, and that students should switch to reusable bottles. 
“People have gotten so used to carrying around plastic water bottles,” she said. “The truth is that bottled water is not any healthier than tap water, typical­ly. Mostly, it’s just filtered tap water and it’s tremendous amounts of plastic.” 
With Christmas lights and dec­orations covering campus during the holiday season, Novick said The Office of Sustainability has worked to inform students, fac­ulty and staff about how to deco­rate using less energy. 
“We started last year working with offices on reducing the energy of Christmas lights,” she said. “We visited offices all across the campus and offered them free timers so that their tree lights would turn off auto­matically at night.” 
This year, she said the Office of Sustainability will focus on reducing energy use in dorms. She especially advised using LED Christmas lights. 
“If a dorm has a big communal display, that’s a great opportuni­ty to use a timer … you have a big opportunity to save energy,” she said. “We’d like to visit the dorms during December and offer them timers.” 
She also said opportunities exist for “green” Christmas dec­orating — it just might take a bit of creativity. 
“One thing that I saw in Cavanaugh last year is that in order to encourage people to celebrate without energy, they had a green decorating contest, [and] encouraged people to dec­orate without electricity and to use recycled materials A lot of the dorms were really beautiful. There are opportunities to have alternative decorations,” she said. 
Novick said for widespread energy conservation to occur, a cultural change is needed. College campuses like Notre Dame, she said, could be a good place to start this type of change. 
“I think that campus commu­nities are such a great living lab­oratory for creating cultural change,” she said. “When people do stuff together on a campus, they can see the results. It gets [them] a lot more excited.” 
Stewart said he sensed excite­ment about change even within the smaller Knott environment. 
“I think a huge thing in this whole energy competition was bringing everyone together,” he said. “I also think the [unity] this brought about will carry through. [We know] if we all come together as a dorm we can accomplish some pretty signifi­cant things.” 
Novick said sustainable living does not mean living with less, it simply means being more aware on a day-to-day basis. 
“Sustainability is not about liv­ing without things that make [you] happy, it’s about being more conscious about the choic­es [you] can make,” she said. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 



Site 
continued from page 1 
Total GDI Move is set up the same way, except with the tagline TGM, to show that the post per­fectly describes something a GDI would say, the website founders said. 
Aaron Weber and Kevin Carr, two of the site’s founders, have many friends from other schools who pledged to join a fraternity or sorority. Weber said when he visited a friend at another col­lege, he was referred to as a GDI the entire time he was there. 
“We don’t really see it here at Notre Dame because we don’t have Greek life but at schools like [University of] Tennessee and [University of] Alabama, there’s such a divide in the student body,” Weber said. “That’s where the term GDI came from.” 
While the site pokes fun at the styles and attitudes of those in fraternities, Mike Franczak, another founder, said the site is intended to trivialize the debate between Greeks and non-Greeks, not just to point out flaws in the people in fraternities. 
“It kind of makes fun of both sides,” Franczak said. 
The students said there are good and bad aspects of Greek life, but they don’t feel Notre Dame is missing anything with­out it because of the strong sense of family within the dorm system. 
“I think a good thing is that you can pick a group of people you can identify most with,” Carr said. “But I think our dorm sys­tem here fosters that.” 
The site, which launched Nov. 18, has gotten 60,000 hits. Franczak said they are spreading the word by posting on Total Frat Move. 
“We’ve posted on TotalFratMove.com saying, ‘Oh that comment belongs on Total GDI Move,’” Franczak said. 
The students are hoping the two sites will be thought of together eventually. 
“With the popularity of frats, there was an opening in the mar­ket for the antithesis of [TotalFratMove.com],” Weber said. 
For the group, the best part of building the site was deciding what constituted a “total GDI move.” 
“We had to socially construct different items of clothing and types of music and events to be GDI,” Franczak said. 
They said they decided on cargo pants, more alternative music, V-neck shirts and frugali­ty. The founders said they tried to make this known by being blunt about what makes something GDI in their first few posts. 
Total Frat Move celebrates many of the opposite styles and behaviors. Common views of fra­ternity brothers include name brand clothing, access to wealth and conservative views. 
While the site has gotten some negative responses, most people, even those in the Greek system, see the humor in it, they said. 
“A lot of my friends are in frats and they think it’s hilarious,” Carr said. 
Franczak said while the site is mainly for entertainment, its founders intend to point out the different aspects of being in a fra­ternity versus not being in one. 
“We kind of aim at educating both the frat lifestyle and the GDI style,” Franczak said. “There are positives and negatives to both.” 
Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Wednesday, December 1, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Enjoy 
Christmas 
season 
EddiePolaandGeorgeWylehadit rightwhentheywrotetheclassic “It’stheMostWonderfulTimeofthe Year.”Forgetpapers,projects,finals andbreak.It’sfinallyChristmassea­son,indeedthe mostwonderful 
Matthew 
ofall. 
Robison 
There’sonly oneproblemwith 
Sports 
Christmasseason 
Production 
atNotreDame. 
Editor 
It’sjusttooshort. Everyoneisso stressedoutwithstudyingandantic­ipatingWinterBreakthatmanypeo­pleforgettocelebratethejolly,joy­fulChristmasseason. 
WhenIstrollthroughthequadon acoldTuesdaynightreturningfrom theLibrary,LaFortuneorthedining hall,Ishouldseeresidencehalls bedazzledwithChristmaslights, inflatableSantaClausesthesizeof KingKongdominatingthelandscape and“WhiteChristmas”beingblared soloudthatIcanhearBingCrosby’s voiceechoingallthewayacross campus. 
But,asitis,Iresignmyselftoa stringoflightsstrungaroundan anonymousthirdfloorwindow,a miniatureChristmastreeontheend tableinanoffice,andugly Christmassweaterpartieswithcold, carbonatedbeveragesratherthan hotcocoabeings. 
Thereareglimmersofhopeinthe bleakIndianalandscape,however. NorthDiningHallandSouthDining gocrazywiththeChristmasdecora­tions,whichreallygets\myholiday­lovingbloodpumping,andsome dormsdoindeedgoallout.Butit’s justnotwhatitcouldbe. 
So,onbehalfofallChristmassea­sonlovers,Iimploreyou,studentsof NotreDameandSaintMary’s,take sometimeoutofyourbusypre­finalslivesandcelebrate.Indulgein yourguiltypleasurebylisteningto theBackstreetBoys’Christmas albumwhileyouburyyourheadin thatChemistrytextbook.Readnot bythelightofadesklamp,butbya stringofwhitelightsdecorating yourloft.Bakecookiesforyour friends.Ifyouareaguyanddon’t knowhowtobake,begyourfemale friendstobakethemforyou.When yougothedininghall,don’tleave withoutadeliciouscupofhotchoco­latewarmingyourhandsasyou bravethewindchillonyourtrek backtoyourdorm.Singintheshow­er.AsBuddytheElfsays,“Thebest waytospreadChristmascheeris singingloudforalltohear.” 
Ifitmakesiteasier,startearly nextyear.Asyouwinddownbefore Thanksgivingbreak,takeafew hourstoblastMichaelBublé ChristmasonPandoraandhangup somedecorations.Then,whenyou comebacktocampus,aChristmas wonderlandwillawait,justintime togetyouintothemood. 
Weonlyhavethreeweekstoenjoy theseason,don’tletthestressof yourcollegeexistenceweighyou down.Don’twaituntilfinalsare overtoletyourguarddownand enjoytheseason. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

I hate America 
Man,Ican’tstandAmerica.This countryjuststinks.Especiallysincethe governmentisn’tdoingexactlywhatI wantittodo.Sometimesitseemslike thosebloatedWashingtonianfatcats don’thaveany ideawhatIthink Brooks Smith government shouldbedoing, Intellectual orwhatIneedit todo.Evenwhen Ivoicemyconcernsloudly,sayto coworkersorinalettertomycon­gressman,Irarelyseethekindof sweepingchangesinnationalpolicy thatshouldaccompanymyeverypro­nouncementandwhim.Hello!Aren’t wesupposedtobelivinginademocra­cy? 
OrhaveIjustgonedemo-crazy? 
Andsincewe’reinthemiddleofa recessionandunemploymentishigh,I mightnotbeabletofindthetypeof cushyjobthatismyinalienable birthrightasascionoftheuppermid­dleclass.I’veheardhorrorstoriesof peoplefrommyageandsocialstratum doingworkthatusedtobereservedfor illegalimmigrants.Howisourfree­marketeconomyfailingmesobadly? Thericharesupposedtobegetting richer(becauseeveryonewho’srichis hardworking)andthepoorshouldbe gettingpoorer(becauseeveryonewho’s poorislazy),nottheotherwayaround! Asoneoftherich,ifIdon’tgetsettled ontoanice,comfortablecareerpath, thenthewholeinstitutionofcapitalism isabust. 
Don’tevengetmestartedonthe 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
trashthatpassesfor“popculture”in ourdumbcountry.Ioftenwanttohave deepconversations,butwheneverItry todiscussthethemesoftragedyand redemptioninFaust,peoplejustignore meandkeeptalkingaboutiswho Snookihookedupwithlastnighton JerseyShore.Ingeneral,peopledon’t spendnearlyenoughtimelisteningto criticallyacclaimedmusiclike Radiohead,orwatchingcritically acclaimedTVlikeTheWire,orreading criticallyacclaimedbookslike JonathanFranzen’snewnovel“Chronic City.”It’shardtocommunicatewhen otherpeoplewhentheyshownodesire orefforttostopbeingunculturedboors andrisetomyexaltedlevel.Wakeup andsmelltheStarbuckshalf-cafextra­foamycappuccino,people!(Myfavorite drink,andonethat’scriminallyunder­appreciated.) 
Plusitseemslikenobodyevenboth­erstoreadtheWesternCanonany­more,orlistentoclassicalmusic.It usedtobethatintelligentmenand womencouldbondoverashared appreciationoftheworksofRousseau whilstChopinetudesalternatedwith Debussypreludes.Nowadaysyou’re luckyifyoucangetaconversation goingaboutthenewTwilightmovie withJackJohnsonplayingintheback­ground.Andpeopleseemtolikeitthat way!Everyone’ssoanti-intellectual. Theycan’tappreciatehowhardI’ve workedtomakemyselftheflawlessly learnedandculturedpersonthatIam. 
ButIhaven’tevengottentotheworst thingaboutAmerica:Namely,thatI havetosharethiscountrywith300 millionotherpeople.Manyoftheseso­called“otherpeople”simplydon’t understandthatmypointofviewisthe correctoneoneverysubject,whetherit bepolitics,religion,orwhichTVshows towatch(ArrestedDevelopment,you aresorelymissed).Almosthalfofthese peoplevoteRepublicanandagreat dealofthembelievewhatFoxNews hastosay,whichprovesbeyonda doubtthattheyarebrain-deadmouth­breathersnotfittosharethisplanet withme,muchlessthiscountry.How couldanypersonwithafunctioning minddisagreewithmypoliticalopin­ions? 
Igottatellya,itscaresmesome­times.Sometimes,forisolated moments,Ievenstarttoworrythatthe worlddoesn’trevolvearoundme,and thatIwillhavetoaccommodateother people’sstupidpointsofviewandwack lifestyles.Whenthathappens,though,I justrepeattomyselfoverandover,“I amthecenteroftheuniverse.Iamthe centeroftheuniverse.”Thismantra calmsmedownwonderfully,andsoonI haveregainedtheloftyimperial pedestalfromwhichIsurveyallhuman activitythatisnotmyown. 
NowifonlyIcouldgetotherpeopleto agreewithmethatI’mbetterthanthey are,I’dbeallset. 
Brooks Smith is a senior. He can be contacted at bsmith26@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“It's only after we’ve lost everythingthat we’re free to do anything.” 
Chuck Palahniuk 
U.S. novelist 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Courage is being scared to death
— but saddling up anyway.” 
John Wayne
U.S. film actor 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, December 1, 2010 page 7 
All I want for Christmas: The Silent Night Silent Auction 
Needsomehelpgettingintothe Christmasspirit?Nottofear,SilentNight SilentAuction(SNSA)haslotsofholiday cheer!ThisThursdayDec.2from6to9 p.m.,Pasquerilla East(nottobe 
Lauren Elliott 
confusedwith PhysicalEducation 
Guest 
…sorry“The 
Columnist 
Week”)willbe hostingitsannual signatureevent, theSilentNightSilentAuctioninthe LaFortuneBallroom.SNSAisacharity eventauctioningoffChristmasbaskets fullofgoodiesthatmakeperfectgiftsfor familyandfriends,aswellasprovideyou withgreatbargainsontheitemsinthe baskets. 
TheSilentNightSilentAuctionisthe 

perfectopportunitytostartgettinginthe Christmasspirit.TherewillbeChristmas concertsfrom6to8p.m.byJoshDiaz, JamesEmanuel,TheUndertonesand ConstanceJones.From8to9p.m.we willhaveChristmasKaraoke—theper­fectchanceforeveryonewhohasbeen itchingtosingalonginthedininghallto claimtheirshiningmomentonstage. 
Haveyoubeenmissingthedayswhere youcouldsitonSanta’slap?Nottoworry SantaClauswillbeattheSilentNight SilentAuction,willingtotakepictures andmakeallyourChristmaswishes cometrue! 
Allproceedswillbedonatedtotwo charities:BuildingTomorrowandSt. Margaret’sHouse.BuildingTomorrowis aninternationalsocial-profitorganization encouragingphilanthropyamongyoung peoplebyraisingawarenessandfundsto buildandsupporteducationalinfrastruc­tureprojectsforunder-servedchildrenin sub-SaharanAfrica.St.Margaret’sHouse isadaycenterinSouthBendthat improvesthelivesofwomenandchildren byprovidingindividualattentiontotheir immediateneeds,breakingthebondsof isolationandhelpingthemacquireskills tobettertheirlives.Throughaphiloso­phyofsharedownershipinSt.Margaret’s House,guestsbecomeempoweredby participatinginplanningand.decision making. 
Bynowyou’reprobablycurious,what itemsarebeingauctionedoff?Hereare someofwhatwehavesofar:Nordstrom jewelryandaccessories,signedathletic gearanddateswithsomeofNotre Dame’stopvarsityathletes,aDVDplayer, acolorprinter,anAnthropologiescarf,J Crewscarfandmittens,lotsofchocolate andgoodiebaskets,adigitalcamera,a VeraBradleyovernightbag,MaryKay spaitems,Sephoramakeupandspa items,officialNotreDameclothingitems, lotsofDVDs,blankets,coffeemugsand giftcardstojustabouteverywhere! 
PasquerillaEasttrulyhopesyouwill joinusforevenafewminutesThursday toenjoysomeofthefood,concertsand holidayspirit! 
ThankyouandaverymerryChristmas toyouall! 
Lauren Elliot is a junior. She can be reached at lelliot3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Ghost Rider 
OutlinedagainstawetblackNovemberskyalone horsemanrode.IndramaticloreheisknownasGhost Rider.Thisisonlyanalias.HisrealnameisTimKelly. HewasnotseenonanyTiVo,slo-mo,highdef,official revieworreplay.Hewasinvisibletothenakedeye andthecamera.Buttotheeyesoftheheartsand soulsofthosewhoknewhim,hispresenceat Saturday’sgamewasasunmistakableasthegleamon theGoldenDome,forcingtheerrantthrowandtwo droppedtouchdownpassesonthegame’sfinaldrive. 
Aco-captainofthe1970teamthatsuffereda nationalchampionshipdream-shatteringlossto SouthernCaliforniainamonumentaldownpouratthe Coliseum,TimleftusonTuesday.theanniversaryof 

NotreDame’sfirstfootballgame.Timwasburiedlate Saturdayafternoonjustintimetomakeitouttothe game.Hewassimplynotgoingtoletuslose. 
Timshowedwhatkindofpersonheiswhenhe ignoreddoctors’orders—Timhadrecentlyhadan operationtoremoveabraintumor—inordertotrav­eltoNotreDametobewithhisteammatesatthe Pittsburggameforour40-yearreunion.Theepitome ofoldschoolNotreDame,onecouldn’tfindabetter brotherinNotreDamethanTim. 
Mike Keating 

Associate Football Manager, 1971 Nov. 30 
UWIRE 

Could chocolate milk be the ultimate energy drink? 
Chocolatemilk,abeveragecommonlyconsumedbychil­dren,isnowbeingusedasasportsrecoverydrinkforpeo­pleofallages.Karp,Johnston,Tecklenburg, Mickleborough,Flyand Kathryn Doeneka Stager(2006)established thatitcanhelptorehydrate 
OSU Daily 
thebodyandrebuildmuscles 
Barometer 
duringandafterworkoutsor athleticevents.Maybethatis notsurprising,becausethe contentsofchocolatemilkincludecarbohydrates,protein, vitaminA,vitaminDandcalcium,allofwhichcontributeto rebuildingmuscle.Alsopresentaresodiumandsugar, whichhelpstabilizeandrestorethebody’selectrolytebal­ance. 
Bycontrast,energydrinks,whicharepopularamong youthandsomeactivepeople,containlargeamountsofcaf­feineandsugar,alongwithingredientssuchastaurine, guarana,ginseng,greenteaandvitamins. 
So,whichisbetterforrefuelingthebodyafteraworkout: chocolatemilkorenergydrinks?Tworecentstudieshave addressedthisquestion. 
Thomas,MorrisandStevenson(2009)showedthediffer­encebetweenchocolatemilkandtwootherreplacement drinks(fluidandcarbohydrateenergydrinks)whencon­sumedbyninewell-trainedmalebicyclistsbeforeanddur-inglowtomoderateexercise.Inthestudy,“participants cycled51percentand43percentlongerafteringesting chocolatemilkthanafteringestingcarbohydratereplace­mentdrinkandfluidreplacementdrink,respectively”(p. 81). 
Pritchett,Bishop,Pritchett,GreenandKatica(2009)com­paredchocolatemilkandasimilarcarbohydratereplace­mentbeverageamong10well-trainedmalebicyclistsbefore andduringhighintensityexercise.Theonlysignificantdif­ferencetheyfoundwasahighercreatinekinaselevelinthe carbohydratereplacementdrinkfromthebeginningtoend ofthetrials,whilethecreatinekinaselevelsofchocolate milkremainedaboutthesamethroughout.Creatinekinase isanenzymepresentinmusclesandthebrainthatuses adenosinetriphosphateorATP.ATPisthemainenergy sourceforcellsofthebody,whileadenosinediphosphateis themainenergysourceformusclesandthebrain.Inother words,theconsumptionofacarbohydratereplacement drinkrequiredmoreenergy,whichdepletedtheathletes’ musclesmorequicklyandslightlyincreasedtheirlevelof exhaustion. 

Whilethejuryisnotinentirely,thesetwosmallprelimi­narystudiessuggestthatchocolatemilkappearsbetterat refuelingthebodyafterworkoutscomparedtoenergy drinks.Clearly,though,additionalstudiesusingmore diverseandlongersamplesarewarranted.It’sunfortunate thatsomepeoplehavedecidedtousethenumberonevideo siteontheInternettospreadtheirhateandagenda.The beautifulthingaboutopenforumsisthattheyallowyouto expressyouropinionsanddiscussissues.Likemanygood thingshandedtousonagoldenplatter,peopleinoursocie­tyhavemanagedtotakenegativeadvantageoftheforum— somethingthatcouldhavebeen,andmaystillbe,apower­fulandusefultoolforustohonestlylearnfromoneanother. 
This column first appeared in the Nov. 30 edition of the OSU Daily Barometer, the publication serving Oregon State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Be Green. Dont waste paper. 
Submit a Letter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Wednesday, December 1, 2010 


SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, December 1, 2010 page 9 
By MAC HENDRICKSON 
Scene Writer 
This is a big moment. The fact that everything Kanye West does is impor­tant makes creating an album as ambitious and groundbreaking as “My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy” tremendously risky. He didn’t have to make this album. Something along the lines of “Graduation,” with two or three pop-radio singles we all know West is more than capable of creating, would have suited critics and fans just fine. 
But, as any history aficionada will tell you, “just fine” doesn’t quite make the books. This album could have failed miserably, and the M. Night Shyamalan comparisons would resound in the deep. Thankfully, this is not the case. 
The album was released a mere week ago, and yet, any new acclaim seems stale. A five-star review from Rolling Stone (which only happened 15 times last decade), a perfect 10.0 from Pitchfork Media (which hasn’t hap­pened since 2002) and countless other rave reviews have saturated the col­lective cultural response. The sub­stance of acclaim, however, has been devoid of the macro and remained anecdotal and specific. This is surpris­ing, considering the album is a bigger temptation for ridiculous claim-mak­ing than a Radiohead LP. 
The best acclaim is simple and direct: “Fantasy” is more than likely the greatest hip-hop album of all time. Nothing Nas, Jay-Z, Wu-Tang Clan, Run DMC, the Beastie Boys or any other big leaguers have done before can compare in the slightest. 
“Fantasy” is magnificent and epic. It walks the line between innovation and mastery with style and beauty. Production-wise, the album is perfect. At times, it sounds as if West dug Phil Spector’s Wall of Sound from the grave and throttled it back to life with his inverted, Auto-Tuned electricity. If Spector weren’t in prison, I would’ve suspected collaboration. 
West has crafted a masterpiece that both highlights his career thus far and defies the limits that he himself set for the pop world. It’s the orchestration, the spoken word, the non-hip-hop moments of the album that remind the listener that no one has done or is doing what West does. 

The album’s opening track is one of its best. Before launching into one of the finest productions The RZA has done since 1995, Auto-Tuned cadences rise to a climax. Hallucinatory magic transcends the scene. “All of the Lights” is the highest moment in a perfect album. Drum patterns and horns like fireworks envelop and illu­minate a melodic triumph rife with both beauty and desperation. The song features over 11 popular artists, from Kid Cudi to Elton John, in a con­tinuous masterpiece that sounds like the anthem of a generation. 
This leaves us to discuss “Runaway,” the ninth song on the album and the best hip-hop track of the last 30 years. Understanding the greatness of “Runaway” is similar to understanding Kanye West in general. Thus, most Kanye opponents despise this song more than any of his other songs, and similarly despise any notion that the song posses a quality of greatness. 
This dynamic, however, is exactly what makes the song so great. Beginning with minimalist piano punches and a perfectly crafted drum pattern, “Runaway” becomes West’s most accurate portrayal of how the public perceives not only him, but also hip-hop artists in general. In a self-loathing salute, West pilots the genre into existential self-awareness. Hip-hop is staring in the mirror. The song is honest, divisive, cruel and enticing. 
The rest of the songs are nothing less than Kanye classics. The com­plaint of song length, many far pass­ing the six-minute mark, has been made on numerous occasions, though only two or three songs are truly over­bearing. Nobody is claiming the album is perfect. Many moments are too bizarre, many too self-indulgent. But it all fits within the complex of the album. This is Kanye’s fantasy, both beautiful and twisted. 
It’s only natural, after an artist has created what many assume to be his magnum opus, to make some ridicu­lous comparison that seems to make sense only after the stormy sea of cri-tique and acclaim has calmed. Kanye West is not our generation’s 2Pac. He is not our generation’s Nas or Notorious B.I.G. Neither is he a Springsteen, a Sinatra or a Mozart. He isn’t even the Beatles. I suppose there is positive significance in the futility of comparison for West. Most great artists sculpt their own seat in history, rather than filling some retired artist’s mold. 

Indeed, no fair comparison will or should be made for West. However, the brilliance of the album begs an intriguing question. Who else could have made this album? The answer is simple: The Beatles, and that’s about it. Not even Michael Jackson, had he the funds and enterprise to break with the shallow and mechanized demands of ‘80s culture, could have crafted something as simultaneously ground­breaking and beautiful. 
For fellow hip-hop fans who would prefer something more “ghetto,” something that “goes harder,” I kindly direct you back to the 1990s. Beginning with “The College Dropout” and finalized by the release of “Fantasy,” hip-hop has been snatched from the hands of thugs and placed back where it belongs. For those who waited patiently through the mindless, philosophically-drab and morally-repugnant gangster-rap dominance of the late 1980s and early 1990s for a pink-polo-wearing Chicagoan to turn the tide, this is our moment, as much as it is West’s. 

Contact Mac Hendrickson at mhendri1@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, December 1, 2010 
NFL 

Texans defense justifies Kubiak’s confidence 
PGA 

Poulter criticizes rules, suggests changes for 2012 season 
Brian Davis was docked two edge of the coin and made it flip inanextra$150,000fortheRace “Whenyoulookatwhenithap-
Associated Press 

shots in a playoff at Hilton Head over. to Dubai bonus. And those rank-pened, where it happened and 
THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. — when his club ticked a loose reed “It was literally like this,” ing points could wind up costing what it meant ... it couldn’t have The Rules of Golf are under in a waste area to the left of the Poulter said Tuesday, squatting Poulter even more money in happened at a worse time,” he review,andIanPoulterhasasug-18th. Juli Inkster was penalized and twirling agolf ball with his incentives, the whole package said. “It was areally, really bad gestion. for swinging aclub with aweight fingers before lettingit fall to the perhaps worth close to $1 million time.” 
It involves aplayer who tries to attached to stay loose during a ground. depending on how he finishes the It could have been worse. replace his ball on the putting delay. And who will ever forget First,someperspective. year at the Chevron World Imagine the outrage if Poulter green, onlyfor it to slip out ofhis Dustin Johnson not realizing he Poulter knows he was unlikely Challenge. hadbeen 4feet from the hole for hands just inches above the was in abunker at the PGA to win the tournament, for while “I understandthe rule,” Poulter birdie and Karlsson was 40 feet groundandlandonhismarker— Championship,goingfromaplay-he had the long birdie putt, said. “I knew straightaway, away. That would have cost him alucky coin, in this case —and off to atie for fifth after his two-Karlsson had pitched to about 4 becauseIhadheardofithappen-the tournament, the money, the moveiteversoslightly. shotpenalty? feetforbirdie. ing before. Look, Idon’t want to worldrankingpoints. 
There was no intent for the Poulter speaks from an experi-“That softens the blow a little sound like bitter grapes. I didn’t “I would be sick,” Poulter said marker to move. There was no encehewouldjustassoonforget. bit,”Poultersaid. doanythingintentionaltogainan withahealthygrin.“Iwouldn’tbe advantagetobegained. He was on the secondhole of a He will argue, however, that he advantage. Do Ithink the rule talking to anyone. Iwould stillbe 
But there was a one-stroke sudden-death playoff with Robert at least had a chance until one should be changed? Yes. Did I miserable.” penalty. Karlsson at the Dubai World slip of the hand, one flip of the think the rule should be changed ConsiderthereactionifJohnson 
“It puts the focus on another Championship, agreat finish to coin. Did it cost him the tourna-beforehand?I wasn’t reallyboth-hadmadehisparputtonthe18th stupidrule,”Poultersaid. the European Tour season, when ment? Probably not, although it eredbyit.” hole at Whistling Straits, which 
No doubt he could find a few they came to the par-5 18th made for some sensational “what Poulter also realizes that if this would have made him the PGA othercolleagueswantingtotweak green.Poulterwenttoreplacehis if?”stories. hadhappenedontheseventhhole champion until he got into the the Rules ofGolf, which will next ballona40-footbirdieputtwhen Thedifferencebetweenwinning Friday, no one might have scoring trailer and been told to beamendedfor2012. it fell from his fingertips, hit the and losing was $417,000. Throw noticed,muchlesscared. addtwoshotstohisscore. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON — Texans coach Gary Kubiak has insisted his defense was improving, even as opponents continued to pile up big plays and points. 
Houston finally backed him up Sunday, beating Tennessee 20-0 for the franchise’s first shutout since 2004. 
There’s no time to relax, though. The Texans (5-6) have a quick turnaround before facing Michael Vick and high-powered Philadelphia (7-4) on Thursday night. 
Vick leads the NFL with a 
106.0 passer rating, and Philadelphia ranks second in total offense (399.3 yards per game) and points per game (28.2). 
That would seem to be another mismatch for a Houston defense giving up 
386.4 yards and 286 yards passing per game. 
Lately, though, a few changes have produced a sub­tle turnaround and Kubiak is encouraged. 
Kevin Bentley has moved into the middle linebacker position, allowing Brian Cushing to go back to his more familiar spot on the out­side. 
Kubiak has reduced the work load for rookie corner­back Kareem Jackson, who’s allowed long passes in Houston’s losses. And defen­sive coordinator Frank Bush has moved from the press box to the sideline, improving communication with his play­ers. 
“We’ve done some things differently,” Kubiak said. “All those things together have got it balanced out a little bit. And really, for the first time in a while, we’ve had the same guys on the field for about three weeks. That sure helps.” 
Houston’s defense was struggling even before All-Pro middle linebacker DeMeco Ryans was lost for the season with a ruptured Achilles’ ten­don on Oct. 17. 
Cushing, who was suspend­ed for the first four games, played middle linebacker for the next two games, both Houston losses. 
Bentley, who was Ryans’ backup, has played middle linebacker for the past three games. He intercepted a pass and recovered a fumble in Houston’s 30-27 loss to the New York Jets two weeks ago. 
The switch has also spurred Cushing closer to the form that earned him Defensive Rookie of the Year honors in 2009. Cushing led Houston with seven tackles on Sunday, including four for losses. 
“Everyone is where they need to be, and the calls have been simplified a little bit,” Cushing said. “We’re really comfortable, finally. It took a little bit of time, but I think we are where we need to be.” 
The Texans held the Titans to 162 yards on Sunday, easily Houston’s best defensive per­formance of the season. Pro Bowl running back Chris Johnson finished with a career-low 5 yards rushing, and rookie quarterback Rusty Smith threw three intercep­tions to Glover Quin. 
Houston has four intercep­tions in the past two games after getting only five through the first nine. Bush says the Texans are not only making more plays lately, but also reducing mental miscues. 
“A lot of mistakes have been cut down, guys are playing faster, playing harder, they’re more conscious of what’s going on,” Bush said. “Really, they’ve just taken ownership of everything we’re doing. They’re starting to believing that it’s their defense, and not just me making calls.” 
But the Texans say that hav­ing Bush on the sideline for the past two games may be the biggest factor of all in the recent progress. 
“We’re a lot more interac­tive with him,” Cushing said. “We can talk over our prob­lems right there, instead of through the phone on every other series.” 
Safety Bernard Pollard said Bush has also brought some much-needed energy to the field. 
“Having Frank on the side­line, that’s a blast,” Pollard said. “He brings a lot of excitement to the sideline. He’s been snatching up play­ers the last couple of weeks, having fun, and getting aggression out of that excite-

AP Houston Texans cornerback Glover Quin celebrates after intercepting a pass during the game Sunday. 
ment.” 
The Texans said they still have a long way to go, and they’ll get an idea of just how far against Vick and the Eagles. 
Pollard is eager to see if Houston’s defense is up to the challenge. 
“Good things come to people who keep working hard, and that’s the only thing we can do,” Pollard said. “All we can do is grind right now, contin­ue to grind, and let the chips fall where they may.”Notes: The Texans waived DT Malcolm Sheppard and acti­vated TE Anthony Hill from the physically unable to per­form list. ... Kubiak said TE Owen Daniels is “50-50” to playing on Thursday night after missing the past four games with a hamstring injury. 

FOR RENT 
6 Bedroom 2 Bath house available for 2011-12 school year. 
Close to campus - student rental area. 
Call for details 574-329-3849 ——————————————— 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. ——————————————— If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. 

For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: 
http://csap.nd.edu. 
——————————————— 
And now, some brilliance from Shel Silverstein: 
Did you hear 'bout Ticklish Tom? He got tickled by his mom. 
Wiggled and giggled and fell on the floor, Laughed and rolled right out the door. 
All the way to school and then He got tickled by his friends. 
——————————————— 
Laughed till he fell off his stool, Laughed and rolled right out of school 
Down the stairs and finally stopped Till he got tickled by a cop. 
And all the more that he kept gig­glin', All the more folks kept ticklin'. 
He shrieked and screamed and rolled around, Laughed his way right out of town. 
——————————————— 
Through the country down the road, He got tickled by a toad. 
Past the mountains across the plain, Tickled by the falling rain, 
Tickled by the soft brown grass, Tickled by the clouds that passed. 
Giggling, rolling on his back He rolled on the railroad track. 
Rumble, rumble, whistle, roar-­Tom ain't ticklish any more. ——————————————— 

Wednesday, December 1, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
PGA 

Woods participates in final 2010 event 


Associated Press 
THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. — The goal for Tiger Woods has always been to be better than he was the year before. Despite losing his marriage and every tournament he played, he still gave himself a passing grade. 
“As a golfer, I learned so much more this year than any other year — and as a person, infinitely more,” Woods said Tuesday. “So it’s been a very successful year, even though it was a very painful year, as well.” 
That year comes to a close with the Chevron World Challenge, which starts Thursday featuring an 18-man field of players inside the top 50 in the world ranking. Woods has won the last two times he played, although he missed the last two years — in 2008 while recovering from knee surgery, and last year because of the Thanksgiving night accident that led to reve­lations of his infidelity. 
It was a year that Woods described as “harder than anyone could have imagined.” 
On Tuesday of tournament week a year ago, the Florida Highway Patrol cited him for reckless driving and fined him $164 for running his SUV over a fire hydrant and into a tree outside his home, while a magazine had a cover story from a cocktail waitress who said she had 300 text mes­sages to prove her 31-month affair with Woods. 
His personal life was just starting to unravel. 
Woods said he never thought about walking away from golf for the entire year, shooting down speculation in a book that he would enlist in the Navy. Woods said as a kid, he either wanted to be a pro golfer or a NavySEAL. 
“I love playing the game of golf,” Woods said. “It’s fun, it’s certainly challenging, and it’s also something that I know when I do it right, I’m pretty good at it.” 
That was not lost on Ian Poulter as he hit balls on the range Tuesday morning and talked about the world rank­ing, amazed that Woods has lost more ranking points than any player has earned this year. 
Poulter recalled a time not long ago when the distance between Woods and whoever was No. 2 in the world was greater than No. 2 and the player ranked 100th or lower. 
“It shows how good,” Poulter said, pausing. It sounded as though he was ready to say “how good he was,” but the Englishman caught himself, because he believes Woods will return. “It shows how good he can be when he’s at his best.” 
Can he get it back? 
“I think it’s in him even more,” Poulter said. 
Woods talked about the need to change his personal life and his golf swing, but he never explained until Tuesday why he had to change a swing that had brought him 31 tour victo­ries, including six majors, under Hank Haney. 
“As I played throughout the summer, I kept trying to do the things that I was working on with Hank over the years, and it just wasn’t working any­more, and it got to a point where I just couldn’t do it,” he said. “It’s kind of hard to try and play tournament level golf, major championship golf especially, when at the time I was struggling with which way the ball was going to go. That’s not fun.” 
Why wasn’t it working? 
“For some reason, it just wasn’t,” he said. “And it was time to go a different route.” 
Woods is back to work this week, although only he knows to what degree his life is back to normal. He had a board meeting with the Tiger Woods Foundation on Monday night 
— Woods picked up the tab for dinner — and more meetings as the host of this tournament on Tuesday before a press con­ference and some work on the practice range. 
He no longer is grilled about his personal life, including his divorce in August. 
Instead, the focus has shifted back to his golf game, and there hasn’t been much to report on that front. Woods went without a win on the PGA Tour for the first time in his career. He lost his No. 1 rank­ing for the first time in five years to Lee Westwood of England. 
The Chevron World Challenge does not count as official on the PGA Tour, although it does offer world ranking points, and Woods mathematically will have a chance to get back to No. 1 this week with a victory. That seems unlikely given his recent form. 


page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, December 1, 2010 
MLB 

Tulowitzki signs extension 

Associated Press 
DENVER — Troy Tulowitzki and the Colorado Rockies are looking ahead with 2020 vision. 
The sides agreed Tuesday to a new contract that pays Tulowitzki an additional $132 million over seven seasons through 2020, a deal that means Colorado has guaran­teed the All-Star shortstop $157.75 million in the next decade. 
“I’m really lucky,” Tulowitzki said. “I can’t wait to be here my entire career.” 
Tulowitzki wanted to be like his idol, Cal Ripken Jr., who played in just one city, and not his mentor, St. Louis slugger Matt Holliday, whose departure from Denver a couple of years ago after 11 years in the Rockies organization deeply affectedhim. 
“I didn’t want that to happen to me,” Tulowitzki said. “I wanted to stay here for my career and not deal with all the other stuff. I’m sure he’s in a great place now and I know he’s happy but at the same time, this is where I want to be.” 
Tulowitzki’s 10-year contract is the eighth-highest in base­ball history, trailing two of Alex Rodriguez’s deals ($275 million and $252 million) and agree­ments for Derek Jeter ($189 million), Jose Mauer ($184 mil­lion), Mark Teixeira ($180 mil­lion), CC Sabathia ($161 mil­lion) and Manny Ramirez ($160 million). 
The genesis of the extension was a heart-to-heart talk with general manager Dan O’Dowd in his office at season’s end. 
“They were just discussions about life,” O’Dowd said. “The maturity of understanding the continuity and stability of things and what he’s trying to become as a man led me to say to our owner, ‘I think maybe we should explore this right now.’” 
A second chat in O’Dowd’s office, this time with team owner Dick Monfort sitting in, got the negotiating started on the deal. 
“I said it definitely is a possi­bility I want to be here my whole career, but there’s a lot of things that have to work out, such as money, such as a com­mitment to winning,” Tulowitzki said. “And all the answers I received from the beginning stayed on a straight line. They never veered off. And they sold me.” 
Andthe Rockies paidhim. 
Tulowitzki, 26, already had been guaranteed $25.75 mil­lion through 2013 under the $31 million, six-year contract he agreedto in January2008. 
Asked about the characteri­zation that the Rockies owner­ship hasn’t been committed to winning, O’Dowd said: “I will say this, that we’re not com­mittedto winning at all costs.” 
“Maybe there’s a perception we’re not committed to win­ning because we don’t go out and do the Mike Hampton and Denny Neagle thing anymore, butifyou didn’t notice thatdid­n’t work out too well,” O’Dowd said of Colorado’s colossal con­tracts that blew up in the fran­chise’s face in the early 2000s. “And so we are committed to try to hold onto our own inter­nal players before we hold onto anything external.” 
Both sides are taking risks: Tulowitzki will be 35 by the time the contract expires and he could have some monster years duringthat time. 
Despite missing 33 games with a broken wrist last sea­son, Tulowitzki won his first Gold Glove and NL Silver Slugger awards after hitting .315 with 27 homers and 95 RBIs. 
“They felt like they had a guy they wanted to be the face of the franchise and they came after him,” Tulowitzki said. “And on my side, I love the game and that’s more than enough money than I’ll ever needin my entire lifetime.” 
Tulowitzki said he believes the Rockies are on the cusp of something big and that owner­ship promised him he won’t have to carry the load by him­self. 
The Rockies are hoping to have these kinds of big con­tract announcements regarding ace Ubaldo Jimenez and star slugger Carlos Gonzalez in win­ters to come, although it could prove an insurmountable chal­lenge to keep both of them in purple pinstripes beyond 2014, when they would become free agents. 
The Rockies are close to securing prized left-hander Jorge De La Rosa for a couple of years, keeping one of the most sought-after arms on the open market from leaving Denver. O’Dowd said there was still some issues to be ironed out, such as getting De La Rosa from his native Mexico to Denver for aphysical. 
“De La Rosa was a huge acquisition for us,” Tulowitzki said. “You’re talking about a guy that we had that has top­notch stuff. A lot of teams were after him but at the end of the day he kind of realized like I did that you don’t get what you gethere in everyplace. 
“He loves playing here, I know that. He wanted to be a part of this for the next two or three years. I’m sure he turned down some money to stay here and that’s what it’s all about. If you want to make a commit­ment, do it. If you don’t, go and get the top dollar, but you might notbe the happiest.” 
Tulowitzki receives $5.5 mil­lion next year, $8.25 million in 2012 and $10 million in 2013 as part of his previous con­tract, which contained a $15 million team option for 2014 with a$2 million buyout. 
Under the new deal, he receives $16 million in 2014, $20 million in each of the fol­lowing five seasons and $14 million in 2020. Colorado gets a $14 million option for 2021 with a$4 million buyout. 
In both 2020 and 2021, if it’s exercised, Tulowitzki’s salary could escalate by up to $6 mil­lion annually depending on his finish in MVP voting, whether he is an All-Star or earns Gold Glove or Silver Slugger awards and other criteria. 
Tulowitzki has finished fifth in MVP voting the last two sea­sons. 
“I want to be the best player in this game,” Tulowitzki said. 
But more than that, he wants to win a World Series, and now he’s got 10 more chances to do it in Colorado. 
“It’s an important day for our franchise,” O’Dowd said, “but hopefully we have a lot more important days in front of us.” 
NBA 

James anxious, excited about Cleveland return 
Associated Press 

MIAMI — There’s not much LeBron James can absolutely say about what awaits when he returnstoClevelandasanoppo­nentonThursdaynight. 
Fun, weird, tough, draining. Jamescitesthemallasexpecta­tions. 
He’s likely right on each count, and who knows how many more ways the emotional gamut will swing on Thursday when the Miami Heat visit Cleveland, the city James scorned on July 8 when he announced in a nationally tele­vised special that he was “tak­ingmytalentstoSouthBeach.” 
It’ll be James’ first time back as a visitor, and Cavaliers fans have been waiting months to notwelcomehimhome. 
“It’s going to be tough, but I’m theretowinabasketballgame,” James saidafterTuesday’s Heat practice and preparing for Wednesday’s game against Detroit — almost forgotten given the magnitude of what looms Thursday. “I understand. I understand how passionate fansareaboutsports.I’mready for whatever response that I’m goingtoget.It’sgoingtobevery emotional.” 
True,forallpartiesinvolved. 

But the NBA might have helpedJamesout abitwiththis trip. 
Because Miamiplays at home Wednesday night, the Heat will not arrive in Cleveland until early Thursday morning. The team won’t practice that day, just have meetings and a walk-through at its hotel, which will be teeming with security — like always.They’llbustothearena, play the game, head to the air­portandleaveforMiami. 
No time to visit old haunts or old friends. A business trip, nothing more, nothing less, and Jamesseemsrelievedbythat. 
“I think it’s going to be very emotional for myself,” James said. “I’ve got a lot of great memories in that city. So many times,fromupsanddowns,and a lot of things that I’ve done in my life, I give a lot of thanks to that city, lot of thanks to those fans for giving me the opportu­nity to not only showcase my talent but grow from a young boytoaman.” 
He’s not from Cleveland, but Akron, about 40 miles south. The Cavaliers’ franchise was rebornwhentheywontheright to pick James No. 1 overall in the 2003 draft, and together, they soared. Cleveland won 349 gamesduringJames’sevensea­sons, second-most in the Eastern Conference over that span, and the Cavaliers’ 127 winsin2008-09and2009-10— James’MVPyears—toppedthe NBAcharts. 
So when he became a free agent, there was angst in Cleveland,understandably. 
Angst turned to anger at 9:27 
p.m. on July 8, when James revealedhisdecision. 
“I think it’s going to be some­thing that none of us have ever seen before,” Heat guard Dwyane Wade said of what’s coming on Thursday. “If we can beafan andwatchitfromafar, we all would, and not go. I would love to watch it and see as a fan, but I’m involved in it. It’s going to be entertainment foreveryonetowatch.” 
Some Heat fans will gather to watch, at a team-sponsored eventknownasa“roadrally.” 
Of course, it’ll happen at the Clevelander — on South Beach. AtleasttheHeatwillbecheered somewhereonThursday. 
“I’m sure a lot of people are going to show their support for the Cavaliers in their own kind of way,” Heat forward Chris Bosh said. “I don’t think we know what to expect, but I’m sure it’s going to be something likewe’veneverseenbefore.” 
He’ll see something like it on Feb. 16, when he returns to Toronto, his former home, for thefirsttimeasanopponent. 
“I’m glad LeBron breaks the icefirst,”Boshsaid. 
It’s a Cleveland homecoming for former Cavs center ZydrunasIlgauskasaswell,and while he said the trip will be “a unique situation,” he’s almost certain not to face the level of venom that’ll be directed at James. 
Wade said he’ll give James simpleadvicebeforehand. 
“TheonlythingIwouldsayto him is not try to go out to get 100 points,” Wade said. “Play the game. Let the game flow to you. I know he wants to play great, but sometimes you can forceittoomuch.Justplaybas­ketballlikeLeBronJames.” 


Wednesday, December 1, 2010  The Observer . SPORTS  page 13  
Baylor  the last week while they hosted the WBCA Classic over the holi­day weekend, defeating three  going to have to have that abil­ity to really focus and run the offense through.”  work on some things.” Until then, the Irish aren’t slowing down, especially not  throughout 40 minutes of play. “We don’t want to beat our­selves, we don’t want to beat  
continued from page 16  teams in three days. Notre Dame took out IUPUI 95-29,  McGraw also said that Notre Dame will need to control its  with one of the tallest post players in the NCAA standing  ourselves with turnovers and missed box outs and little  
to No. 12 UCLA in double over- Wake Forest 92-69 and Butler  turnovers against Baylor and  in front of them tonight. Baylor  things like that. We want to  
time  and  81-76  to  No.  9  85-54. Despite the team’s suc­ not play “sloppy.” But working  sophomore Brittney Griner,  just battle  on the boards and  
Kentucky on Nov. 18 and Nov.  cess, McGraw said none of the  on  the details may not  come  standing tall at 6-foot-8, aver- defensively, we want to be able  
21, respectively. McGraw said  t o u r n a m e n t  until after final  aged 30 points, 8.7 rebounds  to defend, and that’s kind of  
she sees those contests as an  opponents pro- exams.  and 6.67 blocks in 23.7 min- what  we’re  looking  for,”  
important starting board for  vided enough of  “We just had  utes in the Bears’ three most  McGraw said. “I think it’s  an  
her young team as they take on  a  challenge for  three games in  recent contests.  attitude, and I think we’ve got  
the Bears. “I think that it definitely helped us to play ranked teams and to see a few things that we  the Irish to have to execute their offense, an area McGraw said  “There’s a bit of a challenge with a 6-foot-8 post player  three days, so we haven’t had practices for five days, so  McGraw said Griner will pose a threat. “There’s a bit of a challenge with a 6-foot-8 post player  a really good attitude about that and I think that starts with [senior forward and captain] Becca Bruszewski.  
need to work on. It was good for us to compare ourselves to  will be essential in tonight’s com- inside”  that makes it a little bit  inside,” McGraw said. “We had Kentucky who had a really  “I think they’re ready and I think the most important thing  
other ranked teams and to know that we have to really be  petition. “We  play  Muffet McGraw  t o u g h because  e r we  good post player but she was only 6-foot-1, so we’re not  is that we have to compete and that’s what we do best, we bat- 
more  fundamentally sound,”  teams, and when  Irish coach  know we have  going to see one this often with  tle,” McGraw said. “We’re  a  
she said. “We can’t get away  you can score 92  to  fix  some  this kind of size and agility.  team of fighters and they are  
with making some of the mis- points  on  them,  things and  we  We’re getting  our  game plan  ready to accept the challenge.”  
takes  that  we  made  in  the  you don’t have  only have  one  formulated [Monday] and we’re  The  Irish  take  on  Baylor  
other games, and we have to  to  execute  the  day  to  do  going to try  some  things out  tonight at the Ferrell Center in  
really  be  attentive  to  the  offense. You can just run your  that,” McGraw said. “We  are  [Tuesday]. I think we have to  Waco, Texas at 7 p.m. CST.  
details.”  transition but [tonight], we’re  really looking forward to hav­ play a little bit smarter.”  
The Irish haven’t had much  going  to  have  to  run  the  ing some time after final exams  McGraw said for the Irish, it’s  Contact Meaghan Veselik at  
time to take care of details in  offense,”  she  said.  “We’re  that we can really get back and  about keeping a strong attitude  mvesel01@saintmarys.edu  



Villafor 
continued from page 16 
ground has aided Villaflor in his diving success, he has had to make adjustments in transition­ing to a completely different sport. 
“Although gymnastics helps a diver with ‘air sense’ and the flipping motions, the techniques of the two sports are very differ­ent,” Villaflor said. “It’s challeng­ing for most gymnasts to make the adjustment toward more diver-like technique, but I was so young when I practiced gymnas­tics, my gymnastics techniques were not very strong when I began diving.” 
Villaflor has been a tough com­petitor for Notre Dame this sea­son, missing out on the top three in any competition only once. In the team’s most recent competi­tion against Utah on Nov. 12, he earned silver in the one-meter and bronze in the three-meter. 
Villaflor credits his ability to twist quickly while diving as his greatest strength. 
“I tend to be a pretty fast twister, which allows me to add difficulty to the list I compete,” he said. 
As Villaflor prepares for the rest of the season, which includes competing at the Iowa Invitational this weekend along with upcoming meets at Northwestern, Cleveland State and Michigan State, he is now working on perfecting his dives. 
“I have learned all the dives that I need for the season, so now I will work on improving them and making them as con­sistent as possible,” Villaflor said. “I am currently working on fixing some bad habits that I have developed over the past few weeks, which will hopefully be back to normal in time for our invite this weekend.” 
At the Big East Championships last season, where he earned top marks for the Irish program, Villaflor earned two of his career-best dives. He was also awarded the competition’s Most Outstanding Diver award. 
“Winning Big East was incredi­ble,” Villaflor said. “It was really rewarding because there was good competition there. The most difficult thing about big diving competitions like that is it is so easy to miss one dive, which would put you out of the running for the top places. I was happy that I was able to put together a solid meet when it counted.” 
Villaflor said he hopes to improve last season’s achieve­ments with a trip to the NCAA Championships this March. 
“My lofty goal for the end of the season is to qualify for the NCAAs, but I would really like to place in the top 10 at Zones [the qualifying meet for NCAAs],” Villaflor said. “I have been close, but yet to break into the top 10 spots.” 
Regardless of the rest of this season’s events, Villaflor said he is proud to be representing the Irish for one last season. A mar­keting major, he has accepted a position with the Abercrombie and Fitch home office in Columbus, Ohio after gradua­tion. 
Villaflor and the rest of the Irish swim and dive squad will face Iowa, Denver, South Dakota State, Green Bay, Milwaukee and Ohio State (diving only) at the Iowa Invitational this weekend. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, December 1, 2010 
Sycamore 
continued from page 16 
Dwayne Lathan’s 22 points, didn’t make it easy on their hosts. Indiana State started 5­of-6 from the field and led 11­10 at the first media timeout. The Sycamores used a Jake Kelly 3-pointer to take a 16-12 lead before Notre Dame scored the next seven points, high­lighted by a Hansbrough dunk that put the Irish up 17-16. 
Notre Dame led 38-33 at halftime and used an 8-2 run to start the second half to build a 46-35 advantage. The Irish lead hovered around that mar­gin the rest of the way, as Notre Dame shot 60 percent from the field in the second half and made 4-of-9 three-pointers. 
“We were pretty poised,” Brey said. “It wasn’t pretty, it wasn’t flowing great, but like down in Orlando, nobody really panicked.” 
All five Irish starters scored in double figures and account­ed for all but two Notre Dame points, with Hansbrough lead­ing the way by going 8-of-12 from the floor, including 4-of-5 from beyond the arc. 
“Ben let the game come to him,” said Brey, who also praised Hansbrough’s second-half defensive effort. “I’m so proud of how he’s leading us. He’s set a great tone for us.” 
Senior forward Tyrone Nash scored 16 points and grabbed seven boards, and senior guard Scott Martin scored 15 points, including the first seven of the game for Notre Dame. Forwards Tim Abromaitis and Carleton Scott chipped in 13 and 11 points, respectively. 
Tuesday’s win ended a stretch of four games in six days for the Irish, who were playing their first game since capturing the Old Spice Classic in Orlando, Fla., over the 
States 
continued from page 16 
legitimate threat in interna­tional competitions. 
“It was a great feeling to represent the United States like that,” Meindhart said. “It was huge for us because we really made the presence of United States fencing felt at the competition.” 
He said his accomplishment was a result of his fortitude and long hours he spent train-weekend. Brey said his team will now be “downshifting through Sunday,” with days off Wednesday and Saturday. 


“We’re thrilled with the start. I think it’s given our guys a lot of confidence,” Brey said. “I know we’ve played eight — 
Kvaratskhelia said Meindhart’s medal will show itself as crucial for Notre Dame fencing in years to come. 
“It is really important that a kid came here and in his third year of being here, his result hadn’t decreased or leveled out, but it is actually getting better,” he said. “Because of all the work at school, fencers usually level off, so for future recruiting it will be great to show that if you come here your fencing performances can 
excel.” 
This strong 
ing. “This is some­thing that you  “It was huge for us because we really  finish placed M e i n d h a r t among the  
work for all y e a r , ” Meindhart said. “Everything was working for me  made the presence of United States fencing felt at the competition.”  leading foilists to represent the United States at the 2012 Olympics  
at  the  World  in London. He  
Championships. This will be a boost of confi- Gerek Meindhart Irish fencer  participated in the Beijing Olympics in  

dence for me, and it shows that all my hard work is pay­ing off.” 
Meindhart said he sees his medal as a sign of his victory not only on a personal level but as something to also be celebrated with coaches, friends and families. 
“It meant a lot to represent both Coach Gia [Kvaratskhelia] and my coach at home,” Meindhart said. “Afterward, I received so much support and positive feedback from all the people back home, athletes I had trained with and even from older fencers.” 
2008 before 
arriving at school. After this season, he will be taking next year off from school to return to San Francisco in order to focus on his training and make a stronger showing in London. 
“When I fenced in Beijing in 2008, the thrill was just to qualify, and there were really no expectations, as I was the youngest by five years,” Meindhart said. “This time around, the result is every­thing.” 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 
Miller 
continued from page 16 
Miller also said that her team­mates, especially her class­mates, have made her time on the Irish squad unforgettable. 
“Being a part of this year’s senior class is something I can’t describe,” Miller said. “Becoming what we are today took a lot — a lot of learning, a lot of laughs, a lot of success and some failure too. It also took a lot of growing up. But doing all of that together is what makes us so close. The experiences I have had with our class are some that I won’t ever forget.” 
As she looks forward to the end of her time here at Notre Dame, Miller has set personal and team goals. 
“The best accomplishments for this team have yet to come,” she said. “We have won Big East for the past 14 years and sometimes it can feel like a tra­dition. What we all want is something more. We want our team to be seen on a national level. We want to be able to take more girls to NCAAs each year and score more points as a result.” 
On a personal level, Miller hopes to leave a legacy of suc­cess and a winning tradition at Notre Dame. 
“My goal is to leave my foot­print on this program,” Miller said. “Coming into Notre Dame we had such a strong class and I think that is still true today. We want to walk away from this all knowing that we left our mark and started a new wave of success.” 
Miller and the Irish return to competition Dec. 2-4 as they compete in the U.S. Nationals in Columbus, Ohio. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 

glance at the next eight. I glanced at it and threw it back in my notebook a little bit.” 
That “next eight” includes Kentucky, Gonzaga, Georgetown, Syracuse, Connecticut and St. John’s – with all but Kentucky and Syracuse at home. The eight-game stretch lasts exactly a month and begins Dec. 8 with the Wildcats at Freedom Hall in Louisville, Ky. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

Wednesday, December 1, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD 
Across 35Result of an 
1 Director Lee 
4 Bignamein 
sport shirts 8 Dispute 14Little dipper? 15Film style 16Makes less than 
akilling 17Cholesterol abbr. 18Nut with caffeine 19Grand grounds 20Comment onlife 
by 52-Across? 23Like somestraw 24Hangs around 28Deposit and
withdrawal site 
for 52-Across? 32Lamebrained 33Musical Reed 34Displaying more 
violence 
encounter with 52-Across? 40Seize for ransom 41Capek play 42Mole, e.g. 
43Crib plaything for ayoung 52­Across? 
49Buffy theVampire Slayer, e.g. 
51Stiffness 52See 20-, 28-, 35­and 43-Across 56Vampire story, 
e.g. 59Deuce follower 60Frozen water, to 
Wilhelm 61Hebrew name for God 62Part of a vampire 63___-Foy, Que. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
R  A  L  L  Y  P  A  P  A  B  E  A  R  
A  V  O  I  D  R  I  O  T  A  N  N  A  
T  O  R  E  S  T  O  R  E  S  A  N  I  T  Y  
S  I  R  S  O  M  B  T  R  A  D  E  S  
R  E  T  R  O  A  L  U  M  
O  A  F  L  A  D  Y  L  U  C  K  
N  B  A  T  A  I  L  S  A  R  E  A  
C  O  L  B  E  R  T  S  T  E  W  A  R  T  
A  R  T  E  S  T  O  R  M  L  A  Y  
A  N  A  T  H  E  M  A  E  M  B  
A  L  E  G  M  A  R  C  H  
S  T  A  N  Z  A  T  W  O  I  H  O  P  
T  O  K  E  E  P  F  E  A  R  A  L  I  V  E  
A  R  I  A  S  E  A  R  A  L  T  E  R  
B  E  N  T  E  M  M  Y  R  O  A  R  K  

64Pied Piper's
sound 65Nipper 66Down 
Down 
1 Like the heart duringahorror movie 
2 “Sorry, Charlie” 3 Frozen treat 4 Way to pay 
someoneback 5 ___-suiter 6 Like mechanics' 
hands 7 Void of any va­
va-voom 8 Poem title start 9 Ill-fated ship of
film 10Spot to pick upSpot 11Spanish she-bear 12Bar fixture, 
maybe 13Squeeze (out)21Fierce sort,
astrologically22Sort 25Awesome, in
slang26Stink 27Neighbor of
Turk. 29Tiny bump ona graph
30___Center (Chicagoskyscraper)
31Commercial lead-in to Sweet 34“Cootie” 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

WILL SHORTZ 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  31  32  
33  34  
35  36  37  38  39  
40  41  
42  43  44  45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  
56  57  58  59  60  
61  62  63  
64  65  66  

Puzzle by Jay Kaskel 
35Carpet feature 44Popsicle choice 531920s chief 36Month before justice
45Pen with acap

Nisan 54Subject of the 37Having clean 46“Um …O.K.” book “Six Armies hands 471955 novel that in Normandy” 
38Like someparks wasmade into 55N.H.L. venue 1962 and 1997 
39QB's utterance 56No. onamap
films 40Speed meas.in 57Tokyo, once 48Obliterated 
Europe 58Melted 43Big ___ 50Racy film chocolate, e.g. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 aminute;or, with acredit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions areavailable for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&Tusers: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, orvisit nytimes.com/mobilexword for moreinformation. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and morethan 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 ayear).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

PLEASANDVILLE 

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 


JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
NALTS  

 
 
 
 
 

©2010 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
TOIDI  

 
 
 
 
 

VASHIL  

 
 
 
 
 
 

PHAMIS  

 
 
 
 
 
 

BIBLE
Jumble
o:

http://www
.tyndale.com/jumble/ 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 


“ 


” 
A: AT 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: FATAL AIDED ALPACA SOIREE Yesterday’s 
Answer: What he did when he was offered a chance to skydive — “LEAPED” AT IT 
 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Wednesday, December 1, 2010 page 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Writer 
Senior guard Ben Hansbrough scored 19 of his game-high 24 points in the sec­ond half to help No. 25 Notre Dame shake off a pesky Indiana State team, 81-72, Tuesday night at the Purcell Pavilion. 
The Irish (8-0) are off to their best start in 11 years under coach Mike Brey, who wanted his team to enjoy its new spot in the top 25. 
“I’m proud of them that they’ve earned it, they deserve it, and I think they’ll handle it the right way,” said Brey, who called the win over the Sycamores (3-4) a “grind-it-out game.” 
“I thought we were methodi­cal, we were confident, and we thought, ‘we’re getting this,’” Brey said. 
But the Sycamores, led by 
see SYCAMORE/page 14 

Still perfect 

MAGGIE O’BRIEN/The Observer Senior guard Ben Hansbrough drives into the Indiana State defense during Notre Dame’s 81-72 victory Tuesday night. Hansbrough led all scores with 24 points on 8-of-12 shooting. 
MEN’S SWIMMING 
Senioraims forNCAAs infinalyear 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Sports Writer 
Senior diver Wesley Villaflor trampled the competition at last year’s Big East Championships to earn gold medals in both the one-and three-meter dives, and he’s already on track to do the samethisseason. 
But this time, Villaflor wants to take it to another level. He is working to qualify for the 2011 NCAA Championships as the Irish enter the second half of theirseason. 
A native of Golf, Ill., Villaflor began gymnastics at an early age, but became bored with the sport. Everything changed when he started practicing his gym­nastics techniques off of diving boards. Years later, it is has landed Villaflor as the top diver forNotreDame. 
Although his gymnastics back-
see VILLAFLOR/page 13 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Miller reflects on USC rivalry, Notre Dame legacy 
said. “She was a swimmer end there. She has represent-tion and perseverance. identity was a key aspect of
By MICHAEL TODISCO 

too, and I always wanted to ed the Irish at the NCAAs in “Self-motivation enabled my defining her time on the 
Sports Writer 

be as good as her, if not bet-each of her three seasons and success at ND,” Miller said. swimming team. She said that ter.” she was named the team’s “No one can motivate you the best part of her experi-
Notre Dame’s rivalry with In her junior season, Miller most valuable player last sea-more than yourself. Reflecting ence her as been “being USC hits close to home for equaled her sister’s greatest son. Miller also became the back on my time here as a Irish.” Irish senior Amywren Miller, accomplishment when she fastest sprinter in program part of our team, I have seen “The tradition and experi­whose older sister Kammy was named an All-American history when she broke the my mistakes and learned from ences here are unlike any was a Trojan swimmer from for the first time in her 50-meter freestyle record in them. I have become a better other university,” Miller said. 2003-07. But Miller doesn’t career. Kammy had earned her sophomore season and teammate and athlete because “Representing Notre Dame at see her sister as an enemy, the same honor as a freshman reset the same record as a of this and it has allowed me our competitions is so much but rather as a motivating in 2003. junior with a time of 22.30 to succeed in ways I would fun because we already have factor. Her impressive résumé of seconds. not have otherwise.” such great school spirit.” 
“My biggest inspiration has accomplishments while on the She sees her success as a Beyond personal accolades, always been my sister,” Miller Notre Dame team does not testament to her determina-Miller said the Notre Dame see MILLER/page 14 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Team to face ranked Baylor 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 16 Irish are ready to battle tonight as they take on No. 2/3 Baylor in Waco, Texas for their third contest against aranked opponent. 
“I think they’re ready for another opportunity to play a ranked team,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said of her young team. “We’ve had two chances, and we weren’t really happy with the things we did during those games, so now we have another chance. We have a lot of chances this year, we play a lot of ranked teams, so each game is a whole new opportunityfor us.” 
Notre Dame (5-2) fell 86-83 
see BAYLOR/page 13 


FENCING 

Meinhardt fences for United States in Paris 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 

Junior fencer Gerek Meindhart became a part of national and school history earlier this month when he earned the bronze medal in the Individual Men’s Foil competition at the World Championships in Paris, the first United States fencer to ever medal in the event. 
Quite simply, the San Francisco native is the best in the U.S. at what he does. 
Irish foil coach Gia Kvaratskhelia put the impor­tance of Meindhart’s accom­plishment into context. 
“This is incredible not only for Notre Dame, but for the United States Fencing Association,” he said. “Gerek set the precedent for what can be done for a United States athlete. Ten years ago, if a U.S. athlete had a top-16 finish, it was a magnificent achievement. Gerek showed what is attainable. This is real now. The next genera­tions now see what is possi­ble.” 
Meindhart is blazing a path for United States fencing that was once thought to be impossible. For him, his result from Paris is impor­tant as it helps to establish United States fencing as a 
see STATES/page 14 





