the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Experts offer insight into Haitian culture 
Director of Notre Dame Haiti Program Fr. Tom Streit examines country’s history 
“When the earthquake hit, I began to notice that the media was doing a great job of keep­ing us all up to date on the sit­uation in Haiti, but that I didn’t learn very much about Haiti itself — about its people and its culture, and about the political and economic challenges that the nation has faced before, during and now after the earthquake,” senior Paul Jindra, IDRC president, said. 
Jindra hoped the event would encourage students to ask “the tough questions” about Haiti and put what they learn to use towards relief efforts. 
“Tonight we can only give 


see HAITI/page 8 


By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
In an effort to raise aware­ness about the situation in Haiti and what should be done next, the International Development Research Council (IDRC), along with Notre Dame Haiti Working Group and stu­dent government, hosted an informational session about the devastated island nation Monday night in the Geddes Hall Auditorium. 
IDRC leaders said the event was meant to give students a deeper understanding of the country that has permeated the media since the Jan. 11 earthquake. 


University examines energy use on campus 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
In an effort to encourage campus energy reduction, the Notre Dame Office of Sustainability recently released its first annual Sustainability Report high­lighting the successes of University-wide green initia­tives. 
The report, which examines the 2008-09 academic year, focused on seven areas of 



Students push for Dream Act bill 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
As illegal immigration is a prominent political issue today, some students are making efforts to support a bill that pro­poses providing education for undocumented children. 
A group of Notre Dame stu­dents involved in “La Colectiva,” a group made up of college and high school students in the area, are working to raise awareness for the Dream Act and push for its passage into law. 
The Dream Act, or Development, Relief and Education of Alien Minors Act, is an attempt by lawmakers to secure education and future opportunities for children of undocumented workers living in the United States. 
“The Dream Act opens up opportunities to students who, because of the way our current laws are set up, are not given the same opportunities of other stu­dents because of choices their parents made,” La Colectiva member senior Hector Avitia said. 
La Colectiva was formed this year as a means to support the Dream Act while the bill is cur-
see DREAM/page 8 


NDSP releases sketch of suspect 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) released a sketch of a suspect reportedly involved in a Jan. 23 sexual assault. 
The composite image has about a 75 percent likeness, according to NDSP. However it is likely he has tighter curls than are shown. 
The assault, currently under investigation, occurred about 2 a.m. on the northwest side of campus. The victim was approached from behind and then assaulted. 
The female victim told police the suspect engaged her in conversa­tion before the assault occurred. 
Police ask anyone with information to call NDSP at 631 -5555 or Crime Stoppers at (574) 288­STOP. 
The suspect is a col ­lege -aged white male with dark curly hair and blue eyes. He has a mus­cular build and is about 6 feet tall. The man may have a scratch on his face or neck. 
The victim could have also broken one of the suspect’s fingers in the struggle. 


campus energy expenditure: power generation, design and construction, waste reduction, transportation, procurement, food services and water. 
“This is an opportunity to show people how we’re doing,” Rachel Novick, coordinator of Education and Outreach for the Office of Sustainability, said. “[The report demon­strates] the need for more par­ticipation from the community and from students.” 
The University administra­tion hopes the report will pro­mote long-term campus sus­tainability efforts. 
“This information helps us plan carefully and balance with other University needs to ensure a sustainable future for generations of students to come,” University President Fr. 
see ENERGY/page 4 




Weber to move on from student gov’t 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
In leadership positions, it is important to have a turnover 
— a chance for someone to bring something new to the role, student body vice presi­dent Cynthia Weber said. 
Despite a long tradition of junior student body vice presi­dents taking over the role of president their senior year, Weber opted not to run for student body president for the 2010-11 term. 
Weber called this tradition a “legacy,” citing a long line of student body vice presidents who took over the job until 2008, when the Bob Reish-Grant Schmidt ticket beat then-student body vice presi­dent Maris Braun and her running mate. 
“I think sometimes it’s good for an institution to have a change in leadership,” Weber said. “In student government, we have what are called lega­cies. And the legacy continues until the student body says, ‘we need something different.” 
Three tickets are running in this year’s student body gener­al election: sophomores Catherine Soler and Andrew Bell, juniors Noel Eras and Julian Corona and freshmen Peter Ledet and Gabe Alvare. The general election will be held throughout the day on Feb. 8. 
“This will be an amazing opportunity for people to bring new ideas to the student body,” Weber said. “I think I 
see WEBER/page 4 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Opus Hall requirements change page 3  Music rewind for Dresden Dolls page 13  Women’s basketball page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 2, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Just come 
home already 
Junior year is dreadful. Not because of the workload, or because of the ever-looming Future (save that one for senior year). Junior year gets the lonely prestige of being the Abroad Year. Most Stephanie kids who study 
DePrez 
abroad do it in their third year, and that means 
Assistant 
you A. are abroad 
Scene Editor
and miss a semester of all of your friends on campus, B. don’t study abroad, and miss your friends who are away and sending you pictures of them­selves snogging Italians, or C. study abroad the opposite semester of your friends, and go over a year without physical contact. 
I have been a victim of A. and C. I spend last semester in London, having a fabulous time of discoing, losing, searching, finding and growing (checking all those Abroad Experience boxes along the way). I regret nothing, but yet back on campus the hardest part of the transition isn’t the cold (Great Scott, why do I live here?), the classes (I had three days a week last semester — this is cruel) or the food (SDH may not have proper fish and chips, but I can go for the not having to budget for every meal thing). It is living without my friends who, some just last week, and bid farewell to go on their own trans-Atlantic journeys. 
All I can think is, why? Why did-n’t we plan this better? Why didn’t we agree to study abroad the same semester, instead of this painful ships passing in the night busi­ness? I’m all for starting out on your own, picking up and making your own way, but please, did you really have to go to Angers this semester? Or Santiago, London and Rome? Some of my best friends are just moving into their new homes, flats and dorms. And here I am, sitting on a heap of Experience and Newly Gained Maturity, without the emotional buffer of about half a dozen bodies I usually count on to hash out all the sticky issues. 
I can find minute solace in the fact that none of us are really alone. Though physical separation is drastically unpleasant, we are armed with Facebook, Gchat and Skype, ready to face that five hour time difference at every turn. I can pop onto my e-mail and pretend Dan is just across campus, or com­ment on Michele’s status seconds after it goes up. But there is just something so disappointing about knowing I won’t get the chance to full-body tackle Ellie till August. 
I could suck it up and pray that you’re all having a fantastic time of growth and blah blah blah, but that would be far too altruistic for my purposes. The only solution is that you all come home. Now. Don’t worry, my futon’s plenty big. 
Do you really need all that “new experience?” Not as much as I need you! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU HAD A LIFETIME SUPPLY OF ANYTHING, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 









Ryan Lion  Seung Yoon Nam  Jennifer Henzler  Sarah Spieler  Anne Robles  Claire Stephens  
freshman Sorin  freshman Sorin  junior Welsh Fam  sophomore Pasquerilla West  freshman Pasquerilla East  freshman Pangborn  
“Taylor Swift.”  “Salvation.”  “Warmth, especially in the sub-zero temperatures.”  “Rainbows and cupcakes! I just have a lot of feelings.”  “First-class plane tickets to whenever and wherever I want.”  “Chocolate and iTunes.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

KENZIE SAIN/The Observer Senior Cosmina Ciobanu returns the ball during a tennis match against North Carolina on Sunday. No. 6 Notre Dame lost 5-2 to the Tarheels, bringing their spring season to 3-1. 
OFFBEAT 
Fire in Texas blamed on inflatable gorilla 
HOUSTON — Fire depart­ment officials said an out­of-control inflatable gorilla was blamed for a rooftop blaze at a Houston shop­ping center. No injuries were reported in the fire early Thursday. The rem­nants of the inflatable gorilla were seen at the site. 
District Chief Fred Hooker said some type of a “blowup doll” was on the roof, the item deflated and landed on some lights, leading to the fire. 
Fire authorities said two stores suffered minor water damage. Part of the rooftop also was seen to have suffered fire damage. 

Real snowfall steals show for man-made flakes 
CARY, N.C. — A North Carolina town’s plan to truck in 30 tons of snow for a man-made winter wonderland has been can­celed because it looks like Mother Nature will come through with the real stuff. Cary decided to call off its weekend “Winter Wonderland” event Friday because forecasters say up to 7 inches of snow could fall in town by Saturday night. 
The plan was to cover a hill in a Cary park with about 10 inches of snow. The town sold 600 tickets at $10 each for Saturday and Sunday. 
But town officials say it didn’t seem fair to keep the money if everybody in the area gets snow for free. 
If the snow does fall, Cary plans to refund the tickets and cancel the event. But if forecasters are wrong, the town will announce a new date for the event next week. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Wednesday thursday 

IN BRIEF 
An exhibit titled “The World of Piranesi” will open at 10 
a.m. today in the Scholz Family Works on Paper Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art. 
“Expanding the Boundaries: Selected Drawings from the Yvonne and Gabriel P. Weisberg Collection” will be held in the O’Shaughnessy Galleries West in the Snite Museum of Art today. The exhibit will open at 10 a.m. 
Daily Mass will be celebrated at 11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
The Kellogg Institute will hold a lecture on “The Growth of Bilateralism” today at 12:30 
p.m. in Room C103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
“Colloidal Interactions, Dynamics, and Assembly on Energy Landscapes” will be hosted by the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering today at 3:30 p.m. The seminar will be held in Room 131 of DeBartolo Hall. 
A seminar on “Growth, Composition, and Electronic Properties of Nanoscale Materials: Self-assembled Alloy Quantum Systems and Graphene” will begin at 3:30 
p.m. today in Room 138 of DeBartolo Hall. 
A French Film Festival will be hosted in the Student Center at Saint Mary’s College at 7 p.m. tonight. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

friday saturday 

Atlanta 45 / 31 Boston 31 / 23 Chicago 33 / 25 Denver 49 / 32 Houston 63 / 48 Los Angeles 64 / 46 Minneapolis 23 / 10 New York 36 / 29 Philadelphia 39 / 29 Phoenix 71 / 54 Seattle 54 / 41 St. Louis 41 / 24 Tampa 67 / 50 Washington 41 / 32 
Tuesday, February 2, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC students compete for Opus Hall housing 
Eligibility requirements for senior apartments dropped; complaints increase over room selection process 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Opus Hall, the senior, apart­ment-style housing on Saint Mary’s campus, has been the topic of debate on campus as stu­dents voice concerns over the handling of eligibility require­ments. 
Due to the limited number of spaces in the building, Residence Life has established requirements for those who apply to live there. 
“It was always contingent upon the six-semester residency requirement — four semesters for transfers — being in good academic and social standing and graduating in May of the year which the stu­dent lives in Opus,” 
“Some students raised con­cerns about the GPA requirement and the decision was made to postpone this requirement,” Dieujuste said. “It is a require­ment that can be reviewed again in the future if students feel strongly about it. We will open it up again in the future for debate.” 
Juniors Alison Bennett and Annie Lamb said they were upset because the postponement of the requirement then increases com­petition for the rooms. 
“In my opinion, Opus is and should be privileged senior hous­ing,” Lamb said. “Unfortunately, because of these changes, my roommate’s and my chances of getting into Opus have severely 
decreased.” 
There are 12 
quads and 12 dou-
S l a n d a h D i e u j u s t e , director of  “We try to make changes with  bles in According Dieujuste,  Opus. to there  
R e s i d e n c e Life, said.  student’s input.”  have been 29 appli­cations for doubles  
The issue arose this year  Slandah Dieujuste  and 19 for quads. Students said they  
b e c a u s e  director  were disappointed  
Residence Life wanted to  Residence Life  by the way the situa­tion was handled by  
clarify  what  Residence Life.  
good academic  “I personally  e­ 
s t a n d i n g  mailed multiple peo­ 

meant, and sent an e-mail to the ple for an answer as to why the junior class stating there would requirement was eliminated, but be minimum GPA requirement of my e-mails went unanswered,” 
3.0. However, at the beginning of Lamb said. the spring semester, students Dieujuste said she tries to listen were e-mailed that the require-to student suggestions, and in this ment would no longer be a factor situation postponing the decision in eligibility. allowed more time for discussion. 


“We try to make changes with students’ input,” Dieujuste said. “It is for this reason the room selection process is being revised. Students sit on the revision com­mittee. We are trying to imple­ment some of the suggestions that we have heard in the past two years since I have been here.” 
Bennett said she is disappoint­ed because of the extra effort she has put in to have the opportunity to live in Opus, and now that chance may be taken from her. 
“Since I began my time at Saint Mary’s, I always viewed Opus as privileged housing,” Bennett said. “I worked hard to maintain my GPA and have stayed out of trou­ble so I would be eligible to live in Opus. However, since the mini­mum GPA change, my chances of living in Opus have decreased greatly.” 
Dieujuste said, however, that Opus is not the only place that holds privileges for seniors. 
“Those who do not get into Opus may find Annunciata Hall to be a wonderful option,” she said. “This is a senior-only floor with a newly built kitchen.” 
Annunciata Hall is located on the top floor of Holy Cross Hall. 
Opus room selection will take place Wednesday and is done by public lottery in Stapleton Lounge in Le Mans Hall, according to the e-mail sent out earlier in the year. 
“Saint Mary’s hasn’t handled the situation well at all and it’s a shame, but hopefully we get lucky,” Lamb said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 2, 2010 
College health center offers tips 
SMC subscribes to online health magazine to offer students advice 
By MEGHAN PRICE 
News Writer 
While College Health and Wellness is busy throughout the year, Cathy DeCleene, director of Women’s Health at Saint Mary’s, said there is an increase in cer­tain kinds of heath risks during this time of year — like the com­mon cold and the flu. 
In an effort to help students stay informed on health issues, Saint Mary’s has subscribed to Health 101, an online magazine that can be accessed through the school’s Web site. It gives stu­dents a place to ask questions and discuss physical and emo­tional health threats. 
DeCleene said there are basic habits which help to lower these risks which are often forgotten. 
“Health risks that are common to this time of year are greatly increased on college campuses,” DeCleene said. “Students have to be even more careful because they live in such close proximity with a large amount of people and this makes sickness travel so much faster.” 
To prevent the spread of ill­ness, DeCleene recommends washing hands regularly, keep­ing a distance from people dis­playing symptoms and covering mouths and noses when sneezing or coughing. 
Students should manage their stress levels, get adequate sleep, exercise regularly and eat a healthy diet to avoid getting sick, she said. 
Asthma has been an issue with many students, DeCleene said. It can be more dangerous in the winter because the cold air trig­gers symptoms and attacks. She said it is important for these stu­dents to remember to take their medications. All students, espe­cially those with asthma, should make sure to wear hats, scarves and coats during this time of year, DeCleene said. 
Frostbite is a bigger issue than most students are aware of, she said — another reason why stu­dents should always wear appro­priate clothing when going out-
she enjoys singing, playing the 
guitar and writing music, Weber 
said, describing her voice as continued from page 1 “kind of Regina Spektor, maybe 
a little Alanis Morissette.” would do an okay job, but I In high school, she produced a don’t have anything up my CD that she distributed to local sleeve. I don’t have any new coffee shops and around her ideas.” school. 
Weber said she is excited for As the campaign posters are the opportunity to develop other starting to line the hallways in interests and focus on classes. dorms and campus buildings, 
“It’s hard for me to have the Weber said she will miss student 
Weber 
energy to do both  government.  
this and my schoolwork,” she  “I think sometimes  “I don’t ques­tion my decision  
said. “Some peo­ple have that energy. But I get e m o t i o n a l l y  it’s good for an institution to have a change in  for a second but I do miss cam­paigning and I am definitely  
invested in what I’m doing in stu­ leadership.”  creeping on all the Facebook  
dent government and then my  Cynthia Weber  campaigns and Web sites,” she  
mind isn’t on my  student body vice  said.  “I  have  
studies.”  president  found a commu- 

A political sci­ence and theolo­gy double major, Weber said she is interested in education policy. She will spend the summer in India doing a research intern­ship at a day school. 
“There are so many different things you can get involved in here. You can do research, pur­sue international studies, get involved in your dorm,” she said. “There are all these differ­ent things I want to devote my time to my senior year.” 
With more free time, Weber said she also wants to return to some old musical hobbies. 
“I’ve thrown around the idea of starting a band or joining a band,” she said. 
Many people don’t know that nity in the past 
three years. Self-sacrificing people are attracted to this job and I am grateful for that.” 
But Weber said she and stu­dent body president Schmidt still have a lot to accomplish before turnover on April 1. 
“Our focus has changed in the last couple of months,” she said. “Our line is ending. We’re work­ing on building long term rela­tionships for student govern­ment.” 
Weber said she loves student government, but knows it is time to move on. 
“This is such a successful uni­versity and students are often pressured to do what people expect of them,” she said. 
side. The likelihood of develop­ing frostbite increases with a lack of moisture in the skin, so students should apply moisturiz­er to their hands and faces, she said. 
There are other risk factors related to extremely cold tem­peratures, DeCleene said. 
“Tobacco decreases circulation by constricting blood vessels, and alcohol interferes with the body’s ability to regulate temperature,” DeCleene said. “Avoid smoking or drinking before venturing out into extreme cold.” 
According to DeCleene, “winter blues” or seasonal depression is one of the biggest health threats affecting students that can be fought by regular exercise and sunlight exposure. 
“Don’t be afraid to talk about this condition with a profession­al, it’s nothing to be ashamed or afraid of. With a little effort, the ‘winter blues’ can be beaten,” DeCleene said. 
Contact Meghan Price at mprice02@saintmarys.edu 
“Sometimes it’s kind of deter­ministic.” 
But Weber said serving the student body as vice president has been a “humbling experi­ence.” 
“People here are so motivated and opinionated and capable,” she said. “I don’t care if you’re working for a major company. The people there may be as smart as they are at Notre Dame, but they won’t have the same infusion of spirit and serv­ice and genuine goodheartned­ness.” 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
Energy 
continued from page 1 

John Jenkins said in a letter included in the report. 
Novick said the effort is a collaborative one that includes the Office of Sustainability and the student body as well as other University departments, such as Food and Transportation Services. She said successes of individual departments include Transportation Service’s launch of a pilot program to give preferred parking to low emissions vehicles. So far, 23 such park­
ing spots exist on campus and Novick said the community has responded well to the program. 
“[The pro­gram was] def­initely sub­stantial,” Novick said. “We definitely hope to expand it.” 
Novick said the Office of 

Sustainability has taken steps to improve campus-wide recycling as well, and part of the initiative includes a com­prehensive Game Day recy­cling program. 
“Over the past two years we have tried to make recycling the norm,” Novick said. “We provide easy access to recy­cling … [and] teach people what can be recycled.” 
The Energy Metrics section of the report indicates a decline in four key areas: total carbon emissions, ener­gy intensity of campus build­ings, total electricity usage and carbon intensity of the power plant’s fuel mix. 
The report shows a decline in all four areas over the past three years, most notably a 4­percent decrease in energy consumption per square foot in 2008-09 and a 7.5-percent decrease in total carbon emit­ted from electricity. 
Additionally, campus elec­tricity demand declined 2.5 percent, even though campus grew by 280,000 square feet with recent construction, according to the report. It was the first year that cam­pus electricity demand has declined since the 1970s. 
“[Sustainability] is a key priority at Notre Dame, like most leading universities in the country,” Novick said. “It’s a fast-moving area and 

“[Sustainability] is a key priority at Notre Dame, like most leading universities in the country.” 
Rachel Novick coordinator Education and Outreach Offce of Sustainability 
there is a strong need to track perform­ance.” 
Student body engagement in campus sus­tainability, Novick said, is crucial for its success. The Office of Sustainability works closely with residence halls to pro­mote aware­
ness and encourage energy saving. 
The Office of Sustainability sponsored the first-ever Dorm Energy Competition in fall 2008, Novick said. The win­ning residence hall, Walsh, reduced electricity consump­tion by 30 percent, according to the report. 
Novick said the Office of Sustainability hopes to release the report every year to demonstrate the University’s sustainability achievements and hopes to publish it at the end of each summer. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 



World & Nation 
Tuesday, February 2, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Mexican shooting appears random 
CIUDAD JUAREZ — The mayor of a violent Mexican border city said Monday he fears a shooting that killed 16 people in a working class neighborhood may have been random because many of the victims were “good kids” with no apparent ties to drug gangs. 
The dead included at least eight teenagers, the youngest a 13-year-old girl. 
Mayor Jose Reyes Ferriz said police were pur­suing all lines of investigation. But he said none of the victims of the attack Saturday night had criminal records, and the teenagers were “good kids, students, athletes.” 
He said he feared violence was reaching levels of brutality shocking even for Ciudad Juarez, which faces El Paso, Texas, and has become one of the world’s deadliest cities amid rampant bat­tles between drug gangs fighting for turf and smuggling routes north. 
Haiti allows Baptists trial in U.S. 
PORT-AU-PRINCE — Haiti’s prime minister said Monday it’s clear to him that the 10 U.S. Baptists who tried to take 33 children out of his quake-ravaged country without permission “knew what they were doing was wrong.” 
But Prime Minister Max Bellerive also told The Associated Press his country is open to hav­ing the Americans go before courts in the United States because his own nation’s judicial system was devastated by the Jan. 12 earthquake. 
The aborted Baptist “rescue mission” has become a distraction for a crippled government trying to provide basic life support to millions of earthquake survivors. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Deadly Brooklyn fire ruled arson 
NEW YORK — New York detectives investi­gating a fire that killed five Guatemalan immi­grants over the weekend in a building without enough smoke detectors declared the blaze an arson Monday and urged neighborhood wit­nesses to come forward, regardless of their legal status. 
A man who escaped the Brooklyn building hesitated coming forward because he feared he would be deported, officials said. Police detec­tive Louis Yero said investigators were working with a pastor who is acting as a liaison between investigators and possible witnesses. 
A motive remained unclear, but one theory is a personal vendetta, said Paul J. Browne, chief police spokesman. He would not elaborate. 
The blaze was the city’s deadliest since a 2007 fire killed 10 people, nine of them chil­dren, in the Bronx. Saturday’s blaze is believed to have started near the front door. 
Sex offenders challenge state law 
SAN FRANCISCO — The California Supreme Court on Monday allowed four reg­istered sex offenders to challenge a state law prohibiting them from living within 2,000 feet of schools, parks and other places chil­dren gather. 
By a 5-2 vote, however, the court agreed that most other provisions of Jessica’s Law were constitutional, including a section allowing the residency requirements to be applied retroactively to offenders convicted before the law was passed in 2006 then later paroled. 
The ruling means all sex offender parolees will have to abide by Jessica’s Law — at least until the residency issue is resolved. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Animal sanctuary faces hard times 
ALBION, Ind. — A northern Indiana exotic animal sanctuary turned away 100 animals last year amid funding troubles and a move to a new location. 
The nonprofit Black Pine Animal Park has about 80 animals, such as bears, tigers and leopards. The park hosts endangered species that are retired performers or were rescued from owners who kept them as pets. 
The park learned in 2006 that it would have to relocate, but completion of the new site has been hampered by lack of money. Less than half of its new 18-acre site near the Noble County town of Albion has been developed. 

Tainted nuclear reactors discovered 
Vermont groundwater polluted with radioactive and carcinogenic tritium after leak 
Associated Press 
MONTPELIER, Vt. — Radioactive tritium, a car­cinogen discovered in potentially dangerous lev­els in groundwater at the Vermont Yankee nuclear plant, has now tainted at least 27 of the nation’s 104 nuclear reactors — raising concerns about how it is escaping from the aging nuclear plants. 
The leaks — many from deteriorating underground pipes — come as the nuclear industry is seeking and obtaining federal license renewals, casting itself as a clean-green alternative to power plants that burn fossil fuels. 
Tritium, found in nature in tiny amounts and a product of nuclear fusion, has been linked to cancer if ingested, inhaled or absorbed through the skin in large amounts. 
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission said Monday that new tests at a moni­toring well on Vermont Yankee’s site in Vernon registered 70,500 pic­ocuries per liter, more than three times the feder­al safety standard of 20,000 picocuries per liter. 
That is the highest read­ing yet at the Vermont Yankee plant, where the original discovery last month drew sharp criti­cism by Gov. Jim Douglas and others. Officials of the New Orleans-based Entergy Corp., which owns the plant in Vernon in Vermont’s southeast cor­ner, have admitted mis­leading state regulators and lawmakers by saying the plant did not have the kind of underground pipes that could leak tritium into groundwater. 
“What has happened at Vermont Yankee is a breach of trust that cannot be tolerated,” said Douglas, who until now has been a strong support­er of the state’s lone nuclear plant. 
Vermont Yankee has said no tritium has been found in area drinking water supplies or in the Connecticut River and that earlier, lesser tritium lev­els discovered last month were of no health concern. 


“The existence of tritium in such low levels does not present a risk to public health or safety whatsoev­er,” plant spokesman Robert Williams said in an e-mail Monday. 
President Barack Obama, in his State of the Union address last week, called for “building a new generation of safe, clean nuclear power plants in this country.” His 2011 budget request to Congress on Monday called for $54 billion in additional loan guarantees for nuclear power. 
The 104 nuclear reac­tors operating in 31 states provide only 20 percent of the nation’s electricity. But they are responsible for 70 percent of the power from non-greenhouse gas pro­ducing sources, including wind, solar and hydroelec­tric dams. 
Vermont Yankee is just the latest of dozens of U.S. nuclear plants, many built in the 1960s and 70s, to be found with leaking tri­tium. 
The Braidwood nuclear station in Illinois was found in the 1990s to be leaking millions of gallons of tritium-laced water, some of which contaminat­ed residential water wells. Plant owner Exelon Corp. ended up paying for a new municipal water system. 
After Braidwood, the nuclear industry stepped up voluntary checking for tritium in groundwater at plants around the country, testing that revealed the Vermont Yankee problem, plant officials said. 
In New Jersey last year, tritium was reported leak­ing a second time from the Oyster Creek plant in Ocean County, just days after Exelon won NRC approval for a 20-year license extension there. The Pilgrim plant in Plymouth, Mass., like Vermont Yankee, owned by Entergy, reported low levels of tritium on the ground in 2007. The Vermont leak has prompt­ed a Plymouth-area citi­zens group to demand more test wells at the Massachusetts plant. 

Emissions goals won’t halt climate change 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS — Goals on reduc­ing greenhouse gases announced by major industrialized nations are a step forward but not enough to forestall the disastrous effects of climate change by midcentury, U.N. officials said Monday. 
Janos Pasztor, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s top climate adviser, said the goals, submitted to the U.N. as part of a voluntary plan to roll back emissions, make it highly unlikely the world can prevent temperatures from rising above the target set at the Copenhagen climate conference in December. 
Fifty-five nations — including China, the United States and 27-member European Union — met a Jan. 31 dead­line to submit pledges to the U.N. for cutting those emissions. Together they produce 78 percent of the world’s greenhouse gases stemming from fossil fuel burning. The deadline had been set at the Copenhagen conference. 

More such commitment letters were expected to continue trickling in over the next several days. 
“It is likely, according to a number of analysts, that if we add up all those fig­ures that were being discussed around Copenhagen, if they’re all implement­ed, it will still be quite difficult to reach the two degrees,” Pasztor told the Associated Press. 
The “two degrees” refers to the Copenhagen target of keeping the Earth’s average temperature from ris­ing two degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) above the levels that exist­ed before nations began industrializing in the late 18th century. It would be no more than 1.3 degrees C (2.3 degrees 
F) above today’s average temperatures. 
“That is the bottom line, but you can look at it negatively and positively,” Pasztor said. “The negative part is that it’s not good enough. The positive side is that for the first time, we have a goal, a clear goal that we’re all work­ing toward. ... Before we would just talk.” 
The commitment letters, which largely reaffirm previous pledges, were intended to get an idea of how far the nations most responsible for global warming might be willing to go, toward a legally binding pact at the climate conference planned for Mexico City at the end of the year. 
page 6 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, February 2, 2010 
The Observer 

Business
Tuesday, February 2, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 
Footwear company’s profits surge 
PORTLAND, Ore. — Bootmaker LaCrosse Footwear Inc. said Monday that its fourth-quarter profit climbed 96 percent, partially due to an increase in demand for its work and outdoor shoes. 
LaCrosse Footwear makes a variety of boots for law enforcement, construction and military personnel. It also sells hunting boots and other outdoor footwear. 
The company earned $2.3 million, or 36 cents per diluted share, in the three months that ended Dec. 31. That compares with a profit of $1.2 million, or 18 cents, a year earli­er. 
Revenue rose 21 percent to $42.5 million from $35.1 million during the same time last year. 
Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters expected LaCrosse Footwear to earn 36 cents per share. 
For the full year, LaCrosse Footwear earned $5.5 million, or 86 cents per share. That’s down about 10 percent from last year’s profit of $6.2 million, or 96 cents per share. 
Sony Pictures lays off workers 
LOS ANGELES — Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc., the studio behind the “Spider-Man” movie franchise, is laying off about 450 people and eliminating 100 open positions to cope with declining DVD sales. 
The layoffs represent about a 6.5 percent reduction in the 6,800-strong work force at Sony Pictures, which released the Michael Jackson documentary “This Is It” and cataclysmic “2012” late last year. The studio also recently pushed back the release of “Spider-Man 4” by a year until 2012. 
Most of the cuts at the studio, which is based in Culver City, will occur by the first week of March and will be in the home entertainment and infor­mation-technology units in the United States. 
It’s the second time in a year for the subsidiary of Japan’s Sony Corp. to cut back. 
Last March, it laid off nearly 250 people and eliminated nearly 100 open positions. That fol­lowed a move in October 2008 to reduce over­time, travel and executive benefits. 
Staff were told of the latest cuts in a memo Monday and through videos by the studio co-chairs on an employee Web site. 

Toyota set to repair recalled cars 
Gas pedals to be fixed by a small piece of steel, company hopes to regain trust 
Associated Press  
WASHINGTON — Toyota  
apologized to its customers  
Monday and said a piece of  
steel about the size of a  
postage stamp will fix the  
gas pedal problem that led  
to the recall of millions of  
cars. Repairs will take  
about a half-hour and will  
start in a matter of days,  
the company said.  
Toyota insisted the solu­ 
tion, rolled out six days  
after it temporarily stopped  
selling some of its most pop­ 
ular models, had been  
through rigorous testing  
and would solve the prob­ 
lem for the life of the car.  
After a week in which  
Toyota drivers said they  
were worried about the  
safety of their cars and  
dealers were frustrated by a  
lack of information, Toyota  
said it would work to regain  
the trust of its customers.  
“I know that we have let  
you down,” Jim Lentz, pres­ 
ident of Toyota Motor Sales  
USA, said in a video  
address.  
The repair involves  
installing a steel shim a  
couple of millimeters thick  
in the pedal assembly,  
behind the top of the gas AP  
pedal, to eliminate the Salesman Andre Kamali walks next to a Corolla at Magnussen's Toyota dealership in Palo  
excess friction between two Alto, Calif. Monday. Dealers should have parts to fix recalled cars by the end of the week.  
pieces of the accelerator  
mechanism. In rare cases,  believed the fix would work,  sured that it had been test- Europe, but he did not  
Toyota says, that friction  citing the automaker’s repu­ ed by independent engi­ know when.  
can cause the pedal to  tation for careful testing  neers, not just Toyota’s.  Besides millions of dollars  
become stuck in the  and engineering.  “You never say you’re  a day in lost sales, the recall  
depressed position.  “They are under the gun.  absolutely sure about any- posed a public-relations  
Toyota said car owners  They aren’t playing any  thing, but I feel that this is  challenge to Toyota, which  
would be notified by mail  games,” he said.  probably the answer,” he  for decades has enjoyed a  
and told to set up appoint- Toyota would not give an  said.  loyal customer base and a  
ments with their dealers. It  estimated cost for the repair  The National Highway  reputation for quality.  
said cars already on the  work. It estimated repairing  Traffic Safety  It took out full-page news- 
road would get priority over  all the recalled cars would  Administration said it had  paper ads declaring the  
those on the lot.  take months. It said some  “no reason to challenge this  episode a pause “to put you  
The recall covered 4.2  dealers were planning to  remedy.” Transportation  first,” and on Monday it  
million cars worldwide and  stay open around the clock  Secretary Ray LaHood said  sent Lentz to morning news  
2.3 million in the United  to make the repairs once  last week the government  shows to express confidence  
States, including some of  parts arrive. Parts were  had urged Toyota to issue  in the fix.  
Toyota’s best-selling mod- expected to begin arriving  the recall and suspend pro­ “This is embarrassing for  
els, such as the Camry and  late Tuesday and  duction and told reporters  us to have ... this kind of  
Corolla. It has recalled mil- Wednesday.  Monday that Toyota had  recall situation,” Lentz told  
lions more because of floor  Earl Stewart, who owns a  “done the right thing.”  reporters. “But it doesn’t  
mats that can catch the gas  Toyota dealership in North  Etienne Plas, a  necessarily mean that we  
pedal.  Palm Beach, Fla., and had  spokesman for Toyota  have lost our edge on quali- 
Jeffrey Liker, a University  been critical of delays in  Motors Europe in Brussels,  ty. But we do have to be vig­ 
of Michigan engineering  getting repair parts to deal- said the car maker would  ilant. We have to redouble  
professor who has studied  ers, said he was happy with  implement the same reme­ our efforts to make sure this  
Toyota for 25 years, said he  the fix. He said he was reas­ dy for faulty gas pedals in  doesn’t happen again.”  

Petroleum company sees profits drop 
Associated Press lion or 42 cents per share. Excluding over-year. 
the special items, the company would For the year, Anadarko reported a 
DENVER — Anadarko Petroleum have earned $21 million, or 4 cents a net loss of $135 million, or 28 cents a Corp. on Monday said fourth-quarter a share. share on revenue of $9 billion. A year profit fell, but it boosted sales volume Revenue fell to $2.41 billion from ago, the company had net income of for the year as it cut spending on some $2.93 billion in the year-ago quarter. $3.3 billion, or $6.91 a share, on rev-projects. Analysts surveyed by Thomson enue of $15.2 billion. 
Anadarko, one of the nation’s largest Reuters forecast, on average, earnings Anadarko boosted full-year sales independent exploration and produc-of 3 cents a share on revenue of $2.36 volume to 220 million barrels of oil­tion companies, was hurt last year by billion. Those estimates typically equivalent, up 7 percent from 2008, the recession, which caused oil and exclude special items. while spending 35 percent less on gas prices to drop and demand to fall. A year ago, Anadarko reported a near-term projects. 
Yet, the company announced some profit of $786 million, or $1.69 a It also said it had a 50 percent suc­discoveries during the quarter, includ-share, including $826 million, or $1.80 cess rate in its global deepwater explo­ing a well in the Gulf of Mexico that a share, in special items. ration program, discovering 360 mil-could deliver significant amounts of oil Argus Research analyst Phil Weiss lion barrels of oil-equivalent of net and gas. said Anadarko’s results were in line resources in 2009. 
For the quarter that ended Dec. 31, with expectations, and he liked the Anadarko executives will provide Anadarko had net income of $229 mil-company’s efforts to control costs by details of the 2010 outlook and capital lion, or 46 cents a share, including cutting lease operating expenses per program Tuesday during a conference one-time gains that added $208 mil-unit by more than 20 percent year-call with analysts. 
page 8 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 2, 2010 
allow individuals who meet cer-citizenship,” Avitia said. decision to come to the United provisions of the Dream Act if is 
tain requirements to enlist in the Individuals who would qualify States.” made into law. 
Dream 
continued from page 1 
rently under review in Congress. 
“We are in the beginning stages of the group formation,” junior Bilma Canales, a member of La Colectiva, said. “Right now we’re discussing different ways to bring as much awareness as possible to the importance of the Dream Act. We’re planning on holding events, creating brochures and we’re talking to some government representa­tives about receiving their sup­port.” 
If passed, the Dream Act will for these provisions under the new legislation if the Dream Act passes would have to meet spe­cific guidelines in order to receive the benefits of the law, such as being younger than 16 when they arrived in the United States. 
Canales said the guidelines will mainly benefit the children who were brought to the United States as undocumented immi­grants because of their parents’ decision to enter the country. 
“These kids can’t go to school under the current law,” she said. “They’re being punished when they didn’t have control over the 


Haiti 
continued from page 1 
you words,” Jindra said. “It’s your job to turn those words into action — make something real, make a difference.” 
Professor Karen Richman, director of Academic Affairs at the Institute for Latino Studies and the Center for Migration and Border Studies, addressed Jindra’s first concern by provid­ing a historical background of the Caribbean country. 
Located on the western third of the island Hispaniola, where Columbus first landed, Haiti was claimed by the French govern­ment, which soon began import­ing African slaves to harvest sugarcane, Richman said. 
“There was a great hunger for labor,” she said. “Thousands of Africans were taken over across the sea.” 
Because of the high death rate of the slaves, Richman said, the turnover rate of slaves them­selves was very high. 
“It was a very cruel system,” she said. 
In 1791, however, slaves rebelled and in 1804 won their freedom from the French, becoming the first nation state to gain its independence through slave uprising, Richman said. 
“They called their land ayiti, meaning mountain,” she said. 
Although it gained independ­ence, she said, the country main­tained an economic hierarchy. 
“Creole planters saw them­selves as culturally French and pretended not to speak the lan­guage of the people,” she said. “The elite have no real interest in development of the country.” 
Richman said Haiti fell into an ever-deepening economic slump as France demanded money for losses incurred by the slave rebellion. 
“Last year Haitians sent back $1 billion in remittance,” she said. 
Fr. Tom Streit, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Haiti Program, has spent a good por­tion of each year for more than 15 years working in Haiti with patients suffering from lymphat­ic filariasis, also known as Elephantiasis. 
Streit reflected on the impact the slave rebellion had on the rest of the world. 
“We might be speaking French in Minnesota if it weren’t for the slave rebellion,” Streit said. 
“Napoleon might have not have realized he really could not control the people,” he said, ref­erencing the fact that Napoleon decided to carry through with military or go to college, some­thing they are not able to do under current legislation. 
“It’s unfair that that qualified students can’t attend college when they are capable of suc­ceeding,” Canales said. 
The Dream Act would also set up these children and young adults on a path for potential United States legal citizenship with certain stages where they are granted conditional residen­cy, permanent residency and then legal citizenship. 
“There are strict guidelines about the qualifications for receiving the various stages of 
the Louisiana Purchase. 
Streit, who was in Haiti when the earthquake struck, discussed stories and memories of the impoverished country. 
One night after the earth­quake, Streit said, he heard peo­ple screaming between after­shocks, then praying to and praising God intermittently. 
Streit also examined the cycle of poverty that persists in the country. 
“[We need to] go in and fight the root causes of poverty,” Streit said. “There is a precon­ception of poor people sharing everything they get. They are rich for 10 minutes then give it all away. They therefore never get out of the cycle of poverty.” 
Streit also attributed Haiti’s persistent poverty to the pres­ence of and oppression from the few elite citizens. They stand in the way, he said, of successful business growth in the country. 
“Elites have never wanted things to change,” Streit said. “Elites keep peasantry, [which is] about 97 percent, in economic slavery until now. Elites would prevent any kind of foreign investment there.” 
The enormous presence of poor people and accordingly small elite class leaves little room for anything else. 
“Haiti has no middle class. A lot of what could be considered middle class was decimated in the quake,” Richman said. 
Joey Leary, a 2009 Notre Dame graduate, was also in Haiti when the earthquake struck. He had been volunteer­ing for six months with patients suffering a variety of medical problems. 
Leary was optimistic about the outpouring of assistance. 
“I’m a glass half full kind of guy,” Leary said. 
He also echoed Jindra’s senti­ment about the need for educa­tion about Haiti. 
“We should learn about the culture, learn the language … we can help the country go in the right direction,” Leary said. “I encourage people to get involved.” 
All three speakers agreed that the priorities for the devastated country have changed since the earthquake, and aid will be directed towards the numerous areas decimated. 
“I am horrified by the loss of the schools,” Streit said. “Haiti was on a good trajectory as far as education is concerned. Schools for me were the biggest hope for development in Haiti.” 
Leary compared Haiti to a sick patient at a hospital, with ail­ments afflicting virtually every part of the body. Now Haiti has suffered in all areas similarly, he said, like its agriculture, educa­tion system and overall infra­structure. 
“You can’t really pinpoint one single thing … that is the most important to fix,” he said. 
Jindra said IDRC plans to con­tinue its efforts to educate stu­dents about Haiti’s situation. 
“We’ve begun working with a number of hall presidents, for example, to set aside a night to show documentaries about Haiti in the dorms,” he said. “We’re also working on a larger event in the spring that will help students learn more about Haiti by expe­riencing different facets of Haitian culture. In all of these cases, students will have the opportunity to donate to the Haiti Response fund that student government has set up.” 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
The Dream Act has special sig­nificance for Avitia, who arrived in the United States from Mexico in 1990 and was undocumented until 1996 when his family quali­fied for residency under the Immigration Reform and Control Act. 
“I’m one of the lucky few that got to receive permanent resi­dency,” he said. “I can’t even imagine what my life would be like if I hadn’t received that sta­tus; I wouldn’t have been able to attend Notre Dame.” 
Avitia and Canales both know young people who are undocu­mented but would qualify for the 
“A lot of people don’t know about the Dream Act,” Canales said. “But it’s really important to raise awareness because a lot more Latinos are going to be in school and on the path to citizen­ship if this passes.” 
Avitia said his own past experi­ences have a huge effect on the way he views the current situa­tion of the undocumented immi­grants in the United States. 
“I want these people to receive the same opportunity that I have,” he said. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 



Tuesday, February 2, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
U.S. resumes airlifts to Haiti 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — The U.S. military has resumed the airlifts that brought hundreds of Haitian earthquake victims to hospitals in the United States, ending a four-day suspension, a military spokesman said Monday. 
U.S. Army Col. Gregory Kane in the Haitian capital of Port­au-Prince said that a medical evacuation flight left Haiti for the United States on Sunday night, though he gave no details. 
The White House said earlier that a suspension imposed on Wednesday was being lifted because it has been assured that there is space for the patients at U.S. and foreign hospitals. 
White House spokesman Tommy Vietor said in a state­ment late Sunday that the White House received assur­ances that addi­tional medical 
capacity exists have contin-pension.
“We’re welcoming 
in the U.S. and ued to carry Individual hospitals were among its inter-Haitians with open U.S. citizens still able to arrange private national part-arms and probably and other medical flights — such as one ners for the mostly non-Sunday that brought three 
done more than
patients. injured pas-critically ill children to hospi­
another other state
“We deter-s e n g e r s . tals in Philadelphia. mined that we and are happy to do M i l i t a r y The Children’s Hospital of can resume planes carry-Philadelphia said the trio 
so.” 
these critical ing 700 U.S. arrived Sunday afternoon. One flights,” Vietor citizens, legal is a 5-year-old girl with said. “Patients Charlie Crist residents and tetanus, the second, a 14­are being identi-Florida governor other foreign month-old boy with pneumo­
fied for transfer, doctors are making sure that it is safe for them to fly, and we are prepar­ing specific in-flight pediatric care aboard the aircraft where needed.” 
Exactly what led to the sus­pension on Wednesday of med­ical evacuation flights was unclear, though military offi­cials have said some states 

States push bans on mandated insurance 
refused to take patients. 
Officials in Florida, one of the main destinations for mili­tary flights leaving Haiti, say no patients were ever turned away. However, the suspension took effect after Florida Gov. Charlie Crist sent a letter Tuesday to Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen with open arms and probably done more than any other state and are happy to contin­ue to do so,” Crist told ABC News’ “Good Morning America” on Sunday. 
Col. Rick Kaiser said Sunday that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has been asked to build a 250-bed tent hospital 
Sebelius saying  in Haiti to  
the state’s hospi­ relieve pres­ 
tals were reach- sure on loca­ 
ing a saturation  “We determined that  tions where  
point.  we can resume these  e a r t h q u a k e  
The letter also asked for feder­ critical fights.”  victims are being treated  
al help paying  under tarpau­ 
for patient  Tommy Vietor  lins.  
expenses — a request Crist on  White House spokesman  Several hos­pitals in Port- 
Sunday said  au-Prince were  
could have been  damaged or  

Associated Press 
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. — Although President Barack Obama’s push for a health care overhaul has stalled, conservative lawmakers in about half the states are forg­ing ahead with constitutional amendments to ban govern­ment health insurance man­dates. 
The proposals would assert a state-based right for people to pay medical bills from their own pocketbooks and prohibit penalties against those who refuse to carry health insur­ance. 
In many states, the propos­als began as a backlash to Democratic health care plans pending in Congress. But instead of backing away after a Massachusetts election gave Senate Republicans the fili­buster power to halt the health care legislation, many state lawmakers are ramping up their efforts with new enthusiasm. 
The moves reflect the con­tinued political potency of the issue for conservatives, who have used it extensively for fundraising and attracting new supporters. The legal impact of any state measures may be questionable because courts generally have held that federal laws trump those in states. 
Lawmakers in 34 states have filed or proposed amend­ments to their state constitu­tions or statutes rejecting health insurance mandates, according to the American Legislative Exchange Council, a nonprofit group that pro­motes limited government that is helping coordinate the efforts. Many of those propos­als are targeted for the November ballot, assuring that health care remains a hot topic as hundreds of federal and state lawmakers face re­election. 
Legislative committees in Idaho and Virginia endorsed their measures this past week. Supporters held a rally at the Pennsylvania Capitol. And hearings on the proposed con­stitutional amendments were held in Georgia and Missouri. The Missouri hearing drew overflow crowds the day after Obama urged federal lawmak­ers during his State of the Union address to keep press­ing to pass a health care bill. The Nebraska Legislature plans a hearing on a measure this coming week. 
Supporters of the state measures portray them as a way of defending individual rights and state sovereignty, asserting that the federal gov­ernment has no authority to tell states and their citizens to buy health insurance. 
“I think the alarm bell has been rung,” said Clint Bolick, the constitutional litigation director at the Goldwater Institute in Phoenix, which helped craft an Arizona amendment on this November’s ballot that has been used as a model in other states. 
“These amendments are a way to manifest grass roots opposition” to federal health insurance mandates, Bolick said. “They kind of have a life of their own at this point. So while some of the pressure may be off, I think that this 
movement has legs.” Separate bills passed by the 
U.S. House and Senate would impose a penalty on people who don’t have health insur­ance except in cases of finan­cial hardship. Subsidies would be provided to low-income and middle-income house­holds. The intent of the man­date is to expand the pool of people who are insured and paying premiums and thus off­set the increased costs of insuring those with preexist­ing conditions or other risks. 
The federal bills also would require many businesses to pay a penalty if they fail to provide employees health insurance that meets certain standards, though details and exemptions vary between the House and Senate versions. 
Obama and Democratic leg­islative leaders were working to merge the two bills when Republican Scott Brown won the Massachusetts Senate seat long held by the late Edward 
M. Kennedy on Jan. 19, leav­ing Democrats one seat shy of the number needed to break a Republican filibuster. 
Since then, the federal legis­lation has been in limbo. But state lawmakers have not. 
“We need to move ahead no matter what kind of maneu­
v ering  c o nt in ue s  i n  
Wa s hi n g t o n,  D. C. ,”  s aid  
Missou r i  Se n .  J ane  

Cunningham, a Republican from suburban St. Louis. 
Since suffering resounding defeats in the 2008 elections, Republicans have seized upon voter unease over the federal health care legislation to help revitalize their fortunes. 
A USA Today/Gallup poll conducted the day after the Massachusetts vote found that about 55 percent of respon­dents — including a majority of self-described independents 
— favored putting the brakes on the current health care legislation. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points. 
State laws or constitutional amendments clearly could bar lawmakers in those states from requiring individuals to purchase health insurance, such as Massachusetts has done. But it’s questionable that such the measures could shield state residents from a federal health insurance requirement. 
“They are merely symbolic gestures,” said Michael Dorf, a constitutional law professor at Cornell University. “If this Congress were to pass an indi­vidual mandate, and if it is constitutional — which I believe it is — the express rule under the supremacy clause (of the U.S. Constitution) is that the feder­al law prevails.” 
Many Democratic lawmak­ers are skeptical of both the intent and the effect of the state measures, entitled in many states as the “Freedom of Choice in Health Care Act.” Some have derided it as “political theater” or an attempt to merely shape the public debate. 
“We need to do something about health care,” said Idaho Rep. Phylis King, a Boise Democrat. “And the federal government is trying to do something. It hurts our com­panies and it hurts our people to be uninsured.” 
misinterpreted. He also said federal officials have indicated he would receive help covering the costs, totaling more than 
$7 million. 
Other flights destroyed in the Jan. 12 earth­quake. 
U.S. Ambassador to Haiti Kenneth Merten said about 435 earthquake victims had been evacuated before the sus­


nationals 
landed in cen­tral Florida over the weekend, and three of those people required medical care at hos­pitals, state officials said. However, Florida had not received any critical patients needing urgent care since the halt, said Sterling Ivey, the governor’s spokesman. 
“We’re welcoming Haitians nia. The third, a baby suffering from severe burns from sun exposure after the quake, was transferred to another area hospital. 
Doctors have said the makeshift facilities in Haiti aren’t equipped to treat such critical conditions and warn that patients in similar condi­tion could die if they aren’t treated in U.S. hospitals. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Tuesday, February 2, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Madeline Buckley Michael Bryan Megan Doyle Meaghan Veselik Nikki Taylor Andrew Owens Graphics Scene Andrew Archer Packy Griffin Viewpoint Lauren Brauweiler 

Bouts for Bangladesh 
The Notre Dame community responded with characteristic generosity to the earth­quake disaster in Haiti. Every year at this time, however, we remind ourselves of another nation, comparable in some respects to Haiti, in which Notre Dame is involved. That is Bangladesh, rough­ly the size of Wisconsin with a population about half that of the United States. In Bangladesh, 57.45 infants die out of Charles Rice every 1,000 live births; in Haiti, Right or 62.33; in the Wrong? United States, 6.3. The per capita income in 2008, in U.S. dollars, in Bangladesh was $1,500; in Haiti, $1,300; in the United States, $47,000. Cyclones and other natural disasters are frequent and severe in Bangladesh including, in September 1998, the most severe flooding in modern world history. It destroyed 300,000 houses, killed over 1,000 people and made 30 million homeless. Two-thirds of the country was underwater. 

Since 1853, Holy Cross missionaries have labored in Bangladesh. Today they include 140 priests and 63 brothers. All but 19 are Bangladeshi. More than 70 Holy Cross sisters also serve there. Bangladesh is 89.7 percent Islam, 9.2 per­cent Hindu, 0.7 percent Buddhist, and 0.3 percent Christian. Because conversion from Islam, the state religion, is illegal, the missionaries work among tribal groups who had never embraced Hinduism, Buddhism or Islam and are predominantly Catholic. The missionaries serve the spiri­tual needs of all the Christian faithful and the dire material needs — especially edu­cational — of all Bangladeshis. 
The “tribal groups,” said Fr. Frank Quinlivan, Class of 1966, the Holy Cross provincial of Bangladesh, “are often neg­lected, isolated and marginalized. Holy Cross is in eight tribal parishes in four dio­ceses. Those children who pass Class 5 come to the parish center for high school. There are no high schools in the villages. The parish provides a hostel, one for the boys and one for the girls. Only in this way can they attend school. The children are able to eat regularly and to get medical care they cannot get in the villages. Parents, however, can almost never afford the hostel costs, a little over $20 a month. 

Finding the money to educate these chil­dren is a constant concern in all our parishes: Education is essential for the very survival of these tribal groups.” 
Since 1931, Bengal Bouts has become the largest single contributor to those mis­sions. The boxers themselves run the pro­gram, under the supervision of Boxing Club Administrator Vince Voss and the director, Terry Johnson, a Chicago attor­ney and former Bengals champ. Seniors Patrick Burns and Chris Cugliari are co-presidents of the Boxing Club. The senior captains are Will Burroughs, Michael Sayles, Tim Thayer, John Maier and Nic Ponzio. The junior captains are Bobby Powers, Dominic Golab and John Tchoula. The captains organize and run the prac­tices, a major job since, for the second year in a row, more than 300 boxers are in the program. That number will decline as the boxers experience the creatively oner­ous workouts imposed by Tom Suddes, a Columbus developer and former Bengals champ who donates several weeks each year to the program. This can be unnerv­ing because Tom does the workouts him­self, a potentially embarrassing motivator for the much younger boxers. Tom and Notre Dame pilot Pat Farrell are the head coaches. The assistant coaches include Sweet C. Robinson of the Buchanan Police Department and former boxers Pat Ryan, Pete Ryan, Kevin Smith, Thad Naquin, Ryan Rans, Chip Farrell and Superior Court Judge Roland Chamblee, who also exercises judicial restraint as a corner-man at the Bouts. Holy Mother Church and the Jesuits are involved through Fr. Brian Daley who coaches and, like Tom Suddes, works out with the boxers. 
Dr. Jim Moriarty runs the medical and safety program which has avoided serious injury for the entire 80 years since the Bouts were first organized by Dominic J. “Nappy” Napolitano. Emergency Medical Technical Terri Engel attends every ses­sion and maintains the sparring and med­ical records. The two practice rings are closely monitored by Notre Dame Fire Department EMTs, including Steve Serbalik, Lee Anne Feher, Nadeem Haque, Sean Bradley, Zinaida Peterson, Olivia Mahon, Brian Bush and Frannie Rudolph, and by Bonnie Chow, Bert Williams and Serene Cuenco who work for Rec Sports as “professional rescuers” (no kidding; their shirts say so). They are all very effec­tive. 
The real operators, The Indispensables, without whom the entire Boxing Club would implode, are the managers, Ashley Mensch, Katherine Johnston, Kelly Garvey, Catherine Cooney and Meghan Rolfs. They cheerfully handle, with impressive efficien­cy and ease, an endless array of financial, administrative and other details. 
Over the past two years the boxers themselves have raised the program to a new level. Several boxers raised travel money to go to Bangladesh where, with the help of Notre Dame film professor and former Bengals boxer William Donaruma, Class of 1989, and cinematographer John Klein, Class of 2006, they made a full-length film, “Strong Bodies Fight,” detail­ing the realities and needs of the mission. “Our goal,” said Mark Weber, last year’s president and producer of the film, “is to transform the connection [with Bangladesh] from sending them an annual check to an actual relationship. It went from an abstract mission to something we could see and touch.” Tom Suddes over­saw the project and raised the needed money to finance it by simply writing a let­ter to Bengals alumni who, as Tom put it, “want to give back for what the Bengal Bouts did for them.” The Center for Social Concerns is developing a summer service program for Boxing Club members to go to Bangladesh and work in the missions. The Autumn 2008 edition of Notre Dame Magazine carried a feature article on the film. To view a trailer and learn more about the film, see www.strongbodies­fight.org 
Bengal Bouts will be held in four ses­sions this year: preliminaries on Feb. 13 at 1 p.m.; quarterfinals on Feb. 16 at 6 p.m.; semifinals on Feb. 23 at 7 p.m.; and finals on Feb. 27 at 7 p.m. The first three ses­sions will be in the Joyce Center Field House and the finals in the Purcell Pavillion. The all-session general admis­sion pass is $15. 
Last year Bengal Bouts contributed $50,000 to the missions in Bangladesh. Compared to the federal budget, that may seem like chump change. But among the “ultra poor” served by the Holy Cross mis­sionaries in Bangladesh, the $10.49 you casually spend for a Papa John’s large pizza would feed a family of four for three weeks. Those people need the Bengal Bouts. And they need our support. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the law school faculty and is an assistant coach of the Boxing Club. He may be reached at 574-633-4415 or rice.1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Thanks from an alumnus 
Thank you for having Gary Caruso write a Letter expressing an alumni viewpoint. Many alumni read The Observer to learn about what is going on at our university. 
Over the last few years, many of the Letters by students have been critical of alumni in general, disparaging terms. We are considered old rich guys who are out of touch and wear plaid pants,etc. Just this week there was a Letter using such a description. That is a stereotype. 
We too are part of Notre Dame. The 
OBSERVER POLL 
Signing day is Feb. 3. Which commit will have the best ND career? 
Louis Nix (DT) Andrew Hendrix (QB) Tai-ler Jones (WR Cameron Roberson (RB) Other 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 

majority of us had to struggle to pay our way there. Most of us have to “dig deep” to contribute to Notre Dame which aids the very students who laugh at us. Most Notre Dame Alumni Clubs are sponsor­ing job fairs and working with many unemployed alumni. This is in addition to raising money for present day student scholarships. We have lived the Notre Dame experience you are now going through and understand the good and the bad about being an ND student. 
We too are part of the Notre Dame 

family and it is nice to have an occasion­al voice in The Observer. 
Now, if we can only get the Band to play to the entire Stadium at the end of football games so that we Alumni can hear and sing our beloved Alma Mater too. 
Thank you. 
Frank Keres 
alumnus Class of 1975 Jan. 29 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“True friends are those who reallyknow you but love you anyway.” 
Edna Buchanan 
U.S. journalist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, February 2, 2010 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Stop mud-slinging 
As one of the five organizers of last Wednesday’s demonstration, I would like to first thank everyone who came out and supported us, whether in person or in prayer. The turnout was beyond what we had expected and was encouraging for us who are work­ing hard for equality. 
The next item is to clear up a few things: the securi­ty officer who didn’t let us deliver the letter ourselves was doing his job. Students are not allowed to enter the building as demonstrators so his actions are in accord with du Lac. Second, we did not inform the Office of the President that we would be delivering a letter, or else they would have sent down a represen­tative to receive it. After the teachers went to door to deliver the letter, University president Fr. John Jenkins’ head Administrative Assistant came down to receive the letter. Clearly, we were not ignored. 
Within a few hours, the organizers of the demon­stration received an e-mail that Jenkins wanted to sit down with us to discuss our concerns. Friday after­noon, the five of us had a meeting with Jenkins where he listened to us and we discussed some solutions. Jenkins expressed sincere desire to open up dialog conducive to addressing this. To say that his response shows “unwillingness” is counter to the actions he has demonstrated thus far. Further, mud-smearing and accusatory language is the exact opposite of what is needed to engage in thoughtful conversations sur­rounding such a tough issue on campus. 
This brings me to another point. Both sides of the response to current events on campus have been far from Christian or being in line with Catholic teach­ings. To certain people outraged by the current treat­ment of LGBTQ students: please stop calling others “ignorant bigots” or claiming that Notre Dame is an intolerant place that cowards behind Catholic teach­ing. You are turning others off to the cause of equality and dignity on campus with such language. Making exaggerated and unfounded statements fails to bring people to the discussion table. Outlandish claims do nothing to advance justice, but rather, hinder it. 

To those who may disagree with the “No Home Under the Dome” cause: please READ Catholic social teaching. While the Church does not condone homo-genital acts, the Catechism of the Catholic Church does command “They [gay persons] must be accepted with respect, compassion, and sensitivity. Every sign of unjust discrimination in their regard should be avoided” (Catechism of the Catholic Church 2358). We are not asking for the University to accept gay mar­riage not will we start having mass orgies. We are merely asking for respect and tolerance from our classmates. 
In reading some of the responses on The Observer Web site, it is rather obvious that people, on both sides, are not actually reading the articles or the let­ter written to Jenkins at Wednesday’s demonstration. We are asking that everyone at Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame come to the middle and find some com­mon ground. This conversation will get no where if all we do is name-call and spew out ambiguous state­ments irrelevant to the conversation at hand. [We need] Christ-like treatment of marginalized students and an academic and mature discussion of the issues facing LGBTQ students and allies. 
Laurel Javors 
junior LeMans Hall Jan. 19 
Thanks from ND Right to Life 
On behalf of Notre Dame Right to Life and all those who took part in the 2010 March for Life, we would like to express our warm and heartfelt gratitude to those who generously assisted us in planning and making possible Notre Dame’s participation in this year’s March in Washington, D.C. 
First and foremost, we are grateful to the Center for Ethics and Culture’s Fund to Protect Human Life for its steadfast and primary support to Right to Life. Particularly we are indebted to the Center’s director Professor David Solomon and associate director Elizabeth Kirk, our club’s faculty advisor, for their constant help and guidance. Also, with this year’s for­mation of the Task Force Supporting the Choice for Life, we thank co-chairs Professor John Cavadini and Dean Margaret Brinig, along with all members of the Task Force and the members of the special March for Life working-subgroup. With the help of these per­sons, Notre Dame had a record-setting presence in Washington, D.C., for the March as well as numerous prayer-centered campus events supporting the cause for life. This year 360 students attended the March for Life, and over 40 faculty and staff members, including University President Fr. John Jenkins, joined us. 
Additionally, we would like to thank the Notre Dame Alumni Association, and especially Marc Burdell, for hosting students, faculty, staff and alumni at the inau­gural “ND Family” dinner following the March for Life in Washington, D.C. 

Finally, we wish to express our humble thanks to the Fund to Protect Human Life, to Dean Carolyn Woo and the Mendoza College of Business, to Dean Peter Kilpatrick and the College of Engineering, to the Institute for Church Life, to Professor William Evans of the Department of Economics and Econometrics, to Professor Daniel Costello of the Department of Electrical Engineering and to the University’s Office of the President for their very generous financial sup­port. 
Given the University of Notre Dame’s long tradition of championing the rights of the poor, vulnerable and voiceless, it is most fitting that our university commu­nity would join together to witness on behalf of the unborn and pregnant women. Notre Dame Right to Life looks forward to working with all members of the University community to continue to promote a cul­ture of life not only within our own campus but in our nation and world. 
Mary Daly 
senior off campus 
John Gerardi 
senior Knott Hall Jan. 29 
Time to act on GLBT issues 
As a recent alumnus and member of the 2006-07 Student Senate, it is disheartening to witness the actions — or, rather, inaction on the part of this administration — taking place on Our Lady’s campus. 
The Student Senate passed a resolution in March, 2007 requesting the University add “sexual orienta­tion” to its non-discrimination clause. While I do not personally identify as GLBTQ, I remember strongly supporting the Social Concerns committee chair dur­ing Senate proceedings. I was shocked such wording did not already exist. And I remember being a part of the 25-1-1 majority that voted to pass the resolution. 
This publication, The Observer, reported at the time that both the Student Senate and Faculty Senate had passed similar language in 1998. Two Holy Cross schools, King’s College in Pennsylvania and Holy Cross College in Indiana, already included the language at the time. I recall students on campus having civilized and intelligent debate regarding the issue. 
Yet, three years later, we have not progressed. Students, faculty, and alumni continue to support measures to be more inclusive with regard to our GLBTQ brothers and sisters, but nothing is done. It is not news that the administration can be selectively deaf regarding student issues, but 12 years of repeti­tive voices and increasing volume must have an effect. 

Notre Dame, it is time to act. Alumni, students and faculty have done all they can. Now, it is up to this administration to stop dismissing the issue and step up to the plate. Take bold steps to live your “Spirit of Inclusion” in word and deed. Include “sexual orienta­tion” in the University’s non-discrimination clause. Allow the Student Union Board to recognize groups of gay students on campus as legitimate student groups. And if you won’t, you at least owe 12 years of the Notre Dame community an explanation of your rea­soning. Refusing to address the issue — hoping that ignoring it will make it go away — will not cut it any longer. 
Chris Beesley 
alumnus Class of 2008 Jan. 29 
Brother approved for canonization 
On Saturday morning, Dec. 19, as most Notre Dame stu­dents had just headed home for a well deserved Christmas break, Pope Benedict the XVI made an exciting announce­ment for the Congregation of Holy Cross. The Holy Father acknowledged as scientifically inexplicable, a healing due to the intercession of Blessed Brother André. The vice pos­tulator for the cause of the canonization of Brother André, Father Mario Lachapelle, CSC, indicated, “The road to the canonization of Brother André is now open!” In Rome, the Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Father Hugh Cleary, CSC, said, “What a grace for our religious family, to count among its ranks such a model of the Christian life offered to the world, a true inspiration for a welcoming, compassionate presence. Such good news!” 
This news brought great joy and excitement to all in the Congregation of Holy Cross, but perhaps more so at André House in Phoenix, Arizona. André House began in 1984 when two Holy Cross priests who had been at Notre Dame moved into a rented house with the intention of living with and serving people who are poor. They were taking a page from Dorothy Day’s Catholic Worker movement. Because they desired to share the same kind of hospitality with the people who came to their door as Br. André showed to the many who came to him for prayer and seeking healing, they named this new ministry after the saintly brother. 
“For this news about Br. André’s approval for canoniza­tion to come this year as we celebrate our 25th Anniversary is a tremendous blessing,” says Br. Richard Armstrong, CSC, a Holy Cross brother who has been work­ing at André House for 23 years. André House has grown since its humble beginning. After starting with just one simple house, André House has grown to have two transi­tional houses, one for men and one for women, as well as a hospitality center where they serve over 650 meals a night, offer showers, laundry, clothing, blankets and many other services to people in need. The majority of the staff of André House consists of lay volunteers who commit themselves to a year of service. For many years most came from Notre Dame. Today the CSC at Notre Dame sends stu­dents to André House over Spring Break and André House is a popular site for the Summer Service Learning Program. 
“Just as we had a great celebration in January around the Feast of Blessed Br. André to mark our 25th Anniversary, when Rome announces a date for the official canonization of Br. André, I know that we plan appropriate celebrations here,” says Fr. Eric Schimmel, CSC, Director of André House. And as this ministry has deep ties to Notre Dame, he is looking forward to having a couple of recent alums serving on staff during this incredible year. There are still openings to serve on the Core Staff at André House next year. For more information, you may go to their web­site at: www.andrehouse.org 
Fr. Eric Schimmel, CSC 
alumnus Class of 1994 and 2001 Jan. 29 

Passing of Zinn 
Amidst the news of President Obama’s State of the Union Address, Haiti relief efforts, J.D. Salinger’s death and Notre Dame’s “Spirit of Inclusion” debate, a notewor­thy event went without its due attention: the passing of Dr. Howard Zinn. I encourage you to spend a few minutes getting to know Dr. Zinn — veteran, activist, professor, writer, historian and passionate speaker. Pick up “A People’s History of the United States” or Google his name to better understand Matt Damon’s praise of Zinn’s work in “Good Will Hunting” over a decade ago. Writing to include the plight of overlooked groups of people and sharing the perspective of the conquered overlooked in standard history texts, “People’s History” is a must read for all persons of conscience to better understand the experience of all Americans in history. Many lives have been changed and refocused after having read this book. And he lived it; growing up in the slums, picketing with the workers, traveling to Vietnam with Fr. Daniel Berrigan, challenging the “establishment” and his superi­ors in academia. Dr. Zinn reminded each of us that “You can’t be neutral on a moving train,” and I pray that his legacy of action and exposition on behalf of the poor and marginalized will be remembered by the Notre Dame community. Rest in Peace Howard Zinn; as one of your admirers I will refuse neutrality in the fight for justice. 
Mara Trionfero 
staff St. Liam’s Jan. 29 
The Observer 

Scene
page 12 Tuesday, February 2, 2010 

ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Tuesday, February 2, 2010 page 13 

By NICK ANDERSON 
Scene Writer 
Two forces drive musicians to make movies: the monetary and the creative. As always, money is relatively simple. The movie sells, people make money, they pretend it makes them happier, life con­tinues as before. This is a long and sto­ried tradition, largely beginning with Colonel Parker’s death grip on Elvis’ career leading to “Girls! Girls! Girls!” and “Blue Hawaii.” Through the decades, it’s been carried by movies starring The Beatles (with the exception of “Yellow Submarine,” which wasn’t really made by The Beatles), KISS and the Spice Girls, all blatant money grabs. 
The latter case is more interesting. There are musicians who truly want to be actors; see Tom Waits in “Dracula” or RZA in “Funny People” and “American Gangster.” There are misguided vanity projects; see Prince in “Under the Cherry Moon,” 50 Cent in “Get Rich or Die Trying.” In the best cases, musicians make movies because they truly stop car­ing about selling albums. Pink Floyd’s “The Wall,” OutKast’s “Idlewild,” The Ramones “Rock and Roll High School.” These films are jumbled, low budgeted and ill conceived, but absolutely fascinat­ing. 
Eighteen years into their bandhood, Wayne Coyne decided The Flaming Lips needed to make a movie. Not likely to gain anymore fan base after two decades, Coyne showed no concern for the com­mercial appeal of his film and unsurpris­ingly received no interest from major stu­dios. Ever the optimist, Coyne financed the film himself, building the majority of the sets in his own Oklahoma backyard. 
“Christmas on Mars,” finally released after seven years, is as strange as any of the albums put out by the foursome. In a crumbling colony on the Martian surface, the day before Christmas turns tragic when the Christmas pageant’s Santa com­mits suicide by fleeing through the unse­cured airlock. The first known Martian happens to show up at the same time, only to become a silent replacement for the late Mr. Claus. Add the birth of the first human in the colony and a malfunc­tioning oxygen generator, and the plot begins to take on a rough form. 

Anyone who’s seen a Flaming Lips show cannot help but be disappointed. Lips’ shows are assemblies of energy, featuring puppets, confetti, balloons and elaborate props. Simply put, the live shows are embodiments of everyday optimism and sunny fun. The film diverges from every aspect of the live shows, entering a black and white world of crumbling isolation, chronic depression and elaborate death. 
The film’s obvious and admitted influ­ence is David Lynch’s “Eraserhead” by way of “Dark Star.” While cameos from Fred Armisen and Adam Goldberg pro­vide some humor, they’re largely lost in the quasi-philosophical meanderings led by Coyne. While the film is not afraid to frankly admit to their central themes of death, rebirth, receding sanity and absurd hope, their dissections are lost to overt symbolism, obscure references and purposeful strangeness. It’s hard, if not impossible to understand this movie and Coyne’s in no way sympathetic to his audiences’ understanding. 
Unlike their music, The Flaming Lips’ foray into film shows almost nothing, other than the fact that they own a video camera. In their saving grace, The Flaming Lips composed the score, provid­ing a perfect sound for the project. Backed with atmospheric musical wan­derings, the film does not have to be understood to be appreciated and felt. While it never quite achieves touching or memorable, the film is interesting in a way only found when pushed beyond comfortable, and the film isn’t dancing on the line of comfort, it shoots well beyond it. 
Coyne’s musing on his own life, chan­neled through his opening scene perhaps best describes the film: “Our lives, although very important to us, are mean­ingless. Nothing. Little specks of dust flowing through a vast black sea of infini­ty.” 

Contact Nick Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 

By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Assistant Scene Editor 


The Dresden Dolls are a bit of an acquired taste. The Boston duo, auteurs of the “Brechtian punk cabaret” movement (a title they coined to avoid being labeled “goth”), is known for heavy pianos and drums. This musi­cal style places the Dresden Dolls within the greater musical movement of “dark cabaret” that gained steam in the early 1990s. But while slightly unconventional, and not to the liking of all, the Dresden Dolls are nothing short of addictive. Amanda Palmer and Brian Viglione can rock 
out on upbeat tunes like “Bad Habit,” or chill 
to the likes of “Sing.” But, regardless of type, Palmer and Viglione infuse every song with passion, energy and a little Hamlet -esque antic disposition. 
The Dresden Dolls formed in 2000 when Viglione saw Palmer perform a solo act at a Halloween concert. The 
two soon gained a massive following for their live performances, which typical­
ly feature intense makeup, crazy costumes and occasional fan performances. Their concerts become more of a theatrical performance than just a concert. The spectacle, though, never overpowers the music. In fact, Palmer and Viglione seem to revel 
in it. 
They recorded an early live album in 2001 titled “The Dresden Dolls,” which was later re-released in 2003 as a full studio album. Highlights of this album include “Girl Anachronism,” one of the Dresden Dolls’ biggest hits. The song is a high-pulse rumination on being a problem child, among other things. “Missed Me” takes things in the opposite direction, as a slower, but no less intense, ode to relation­ships. “Bad Habit” is a perfect example of the heavy pianos the Dresden Dolls are so noted for. “Half Jack,” “Gravity” and “Perfect Fit” are some 
other great songs that round out the Dresden Dolls’ excellent first release. 

Also in 2003, the Dresden Dolls released “A is for Accident,” an EP of live performances. The album features both live versions of songs from “The Dresden Dolls,” like “Coin-Operated Boy” and “Missed Me,” along with new songs like “The Time Has Come” and “Bank of Boston Beauty Queen.” 
Their second and most recent studio album, “Yes, Virginia …” was released in 2006 and reached No. 42 on the U.S. music charts. In it, the Dresden Dolls retain everything that made them famous in the first place. It opens with manic stunner “Sex Changes” and carries on strong throughout the rest of the album. “Backstabber” is another born clas­sic, albeit a little softer in tone than some of their earlier work. Also check out “Dirty Business,” another upbeat song, and the great “Me & the Minibar.” The Dresden Dolls close out “Yes, Virginia …” with one of their most beautiful songs, 
“Sing.” 
Two years later, the 

band released a com­panion album called 
“No, Virginia …” The 
album features tracks left over from “Yes, Virginia …” as well as some b-sides. However, this album features some of their finest 
work, opening with the great “Dear Jenny.” What follows is a collection of excellent material that was thankfully 
released, rather than being left behind on some recording studio shelf. “Night 
Reconnaissance” amply displays their musical versa­tility, while “Mouse and the Model” is one of their finest songs to date. Other notable songs include “The Kill” and “Ultima Esperanza.” 
Unfortunately, the Dresden Dolls have been on hiatus since then, although both Palmer and Viglione deny any bad feelings between the two. Hopefully, this hiatus will come to an end in the near future so they can start wowing fans once again with their music. Until then, and for extra credit listening, check out some of Palmer’s solo work on “Who Killed Amanda Palmer,” most notably “Astronaut (A Short History of Nearly Nothing),” “Ampersand” and “Leeds United.” For now, though, listen up and cross your fingers for the return of a great American musical (and performance) outfit. 

Contact Maija Gusin at mgustin@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 2, 2010 
CLUB SPORTS 

Women’s water polo opens season with a win 
Young squash team struggles; men’s ultimate holds onto an early lead; women’s ice hockey takes on tough opponent 
Special to The Observer 
This Saturday, Notre Dame traveled to Chicago to face Wheaton College in its first game of the season. The Irish, who reached the national finals last year and were ranked No. 2 at season’s end, defeated the Thunder, 11-2. 
Sophomore Maisie O’Malle led the scoring with five goals, fol­lowed by junior Ali Durkin, who netted three goals. Sophomore Erin Gibson and senior Emily Harig also contributed offen­sively, scoring twice and once, respectively. 
Standout senior goalie Betsy O’Neill registered 15 saves, helping the Irish shut out Wheaton during the first half and aiding in their dominant victory. The squad will look to continue its winning momentum in the Chicago Invite Tournament in two weeks. 
Squash 
Notre Dame traveled to Evanston, Ill. this weekend to take on Purdue and Northwestern. The young squad dropped both matches, falling to the Boilermakers 7-2 and the Wildcats 9-0. 
Senior Peter Gallagher and freshman Ryan Gisriel, playing the top two spots, stood out for the Irish. Against the Boilermakers, Gallagher defeat­ed Danish Akhtar, 11-9, 12-10, 11-8, while Gisriel defeated Kunal Raheja, 11-6, 11-2, 9-11, 11-8. 
Sophomores Dennis Grabowski, Kevin Ortenzio and Matt Sushinsky fought hard but ultimately lost to both their Purdue and Northwestern oppo­nents. Freshmen Thomas Dore and Eric Huang struggled against Purdue but put up a strong showing against Northwestern. Also taking the court for the Irish were junior Kenneth Schlax and freshman Kevin Sandner. 
Ultimate Men’s A 
Notre Dame opened its spring season this weekend with an indoor tournament at the University of Michigan. For the first of two games, Notre Dame squared off against perennial rival and host Michigan. 
The Irish got out to an early lead, and held a halftime edge of 8-7. After expanding the lead to 13-9, the team hit a bump in the road and nearly lost it as Michigan closed strong to bring the score to 15-15. 
The game came down to uni­verse point with Notre Dame receiving the disc. A solid line was put on the field and they worked the disc up the field quickly. On the fourth throw senior Mike Banning hit fellow senior and captain Andrew Schroeder cutting deep for the score. The Irish won, 17-16. 
In the second game, Notre Dame faced Northwestern. Clearly a little sluggish after the first game, the team got out to a slow start. Northwestern took a couple of breaks and the lead before the Irish closed the gap before halftime. 
During halftime, Schroeder rallied the team. 
“We’re playing down to their level … we’re better than this,” Schroeder said. “Focus on what we do best and bust it out there.” 
His words and enthusiasm clearly jump-started the team as they came out of the half on a run and extended the lead to three points. After many gruel­ing points, the Irish took it home with a 15-13 win. 
While winning twice was rewarding, it was obvious there is still much that needs improvement. As Notre Dame practices throughout the spring, flow of offense will definitely be at the forefront of everyone’s mind. 
However, Notre Dame did manage to squeak a win out against a Michigan club that was ranked No. 5 nationally last year. 
Women’s Ice Hockey 
The Irish traveled to Northbrook, Ill., Saturday evening, where they lost 5-3 in a hard-fought battle against the club team Chicago X-Factor. 
The X-Factor came out hard against the Irish in the first period. The score was quickly 3­0 just minutes into the game, however, the Irish did not give up. 
The period was finished with a goal from Saint Mary’s senior and captain Megan Aimola off a pass from Notre Dame junior Karen Riedel, making the score 3-1 after the first period. 
Although the X-Factor were the first to score in the second period, the Irish continued to fight. After many close oppor­tunities, Notre Dame senior Emily Chappell scored a gor­geous goal off passes from freshman defenseman Mara Catlaw and sophomore forward Brinya Bjork. 
The score was 4-2 after two periods of play when Theresa Days of the X-Factor scored a power-play goal to open the third period. Catlaw finished with a Notre Dame goal off a pass from Chappell, but the final score ended at 5-3. 
Notre Dame goalie Stacey Collins started in the first period and sophomore goalie Elissa Cmunt played the last two frames. Both came up with criti­cal saves, keeping the Notre Dame squad within reach. 
This coming weekend, Notre Dame will host the X-Factor for a weekend series at the Joyce Center. The Irish will face off against the team Saturday at 7 
p.m. and again Sunday at 10 a.m. 
NFL 

Crosby scores three in Penguins comeback 
Hiller earns second shutout with 33 saves as Ducks end Panthers’ five-game home winning streak, win 3-0 
Associated Press  f o r c e d t o k i l l o f f B r o o k s Orpik ‘s holding penalty with  After Jordan Staal tied it w i t h a w r i s t s h o t t h a t  had a goal and an assist.  game since signing a four-year contract extension on  
P I T T S B U R G H  — S i d n e y  2 : 0 4  r e m a i n i n g  a s  g o a l i e  deflected off Miller’s right  Ducks 3, Panthers 0  S a t u r d ay,  th a t  w i l l  k e e p  
Crosby scored three goals in  M a r c -A n d r e  F l e u r y  m a d e  arm, Crosby took advantage  Jonas Hiller made 33  saves  Switzerland’s Olympic goalie  
slightly more than eight min- several excellent saves in the  o f  a  B u f f a l o  g i v e a w a y  t o  to  earn  in his second shutout  off the free-agent market this  
utes of the second period  as  closing seconds.  s core  at  17:30 . M iller  was  o f  t h e  s e a s o n  a nd  t h e  summer.  
t h e  P i t t s b u r g h  P e n g u i n s  Crosby, who scored in regu­ clearing the puck behind the  A n a h e im  D u c k s  b e a t  t he  Hiller’s stellar performance  
q u i c k l y t u r n e d  a  t w o -g o a l  lation and in the shootout on  net  only  to  have it ricochet  Florida Panthers  on  Monday  a l so  c ame  o n e  d ay  a f te r  
deficit into  a  two-goal lead,  Sunday, gave Buffalo goalie  off defenseman Tyler Myers  ‘  night.  Anaheim traded Stanley Cup- 
t h e n  h e l d  o n  t o  b e a t  t h e  Ryan Miller  a  pre-Olympics  s k a t e  d i r e c t l y  t o  C r o s b y,  Ry a n  G e t z l a f  ,  Te e m u  winning goalie Jean-Sebastien  
B u f f a l o  S a b r e s  5 -4  o n  reminder of how he is capa­ whose shot rebounded off the  Selanne and Corey Perry each  Giguere to the Toronto Maple  
Monday night.  ble of taking  over  a  game.  goalie and trickled across the  s c o re d f or t he Du c ks , w h o  Leafs on Sunday.  
C r o s b y  t i e d  P a t r i c k  Miller could be in net for the  goal line.  wrapped up  a  six-game road  The Ducks went ahead  on  
Marleau of idle San Jose for  United States when it plays  C r o s b y  s c o r e d  a g a i n  a t  trip and snapped Florida’s  Perry’s goal with 2:42 left. He  
the NHL goals lead with 37  Crosby-led Canada  on  Feb.  18:55, working  a  break with  five-game winning streak at  scored with  a  slap shot from  
b y f o l l o w i n g u p h i s g a m e -21 in Vancouver, and Crosby  K r i s  L e t a n g  t o  s c o r e  o n  a  home.  the right circle after taking  a  
altering performance during  already knows he  can  beat  hard wrist shot, causing  a  Hiller’s other shutout this  pass from Getzlaf from behind  
the Penguins’ 2-1 shootout  him in a variety of ways.  shower of caps onto the ice.  season came on Nov. 5 in a 4­ the net.  
win Sunday against Detroit  Crosby got the Penguins to  The Penguins captain has  0  A n a h e i m  w i n  o v e r  t he  Selanne gave Anaheim a 2-0  
w i t h  a n  e v e n  b e t t e r  o n e .  within 3-2 on a power play at  never  had  a  four-goal game  Nashville Predators  .  Hiller,  lead with a power-play goal in  
Cr o s by ’s h a t t r i c k  w a s  h i s  10:53 of the second, almost  in the NHL, and it  was  evi­ who has six NHL shutouts,  the final second of the second  
third of the  season  and fifth  fan n ing  on  a  shot of f A le x  dent in the third period he  w a s  c o m i ng  o f f  a  3 0 -s a ve  period. James Wisniewski ‘s  
o f  h i s  c a r e e r,  a n d  t h e  Goligoski’s pass from center  was going for it, twice failing  ef f o r t  i n  t h e  D u c k s ’  2 -1  shot ricocheted off the left  
Penguins pressed  unsuccess­ point but still getting enough  on  good scoring opportuni­ s h o o t ou t  vic t o r y  o ve r  t h e  post and hit Vokoun in the  
f u l l y  t o  t r y  t o  g e t  h i m  a  on it to get it past Miller. He  ties early in the period.  Ta mp a  B a y  L i g h t n i n g  o n  back, and Selanne then tipped  
fourth goal in the final peri­ h a d  m a d e  a  c o m b i n e d  6 9  Pittsburgh’s other goal, by  Friday night.  in the loose puck.  
od.  saves  while winning his pre­ rookie Mark Letestu 47  sec- F l o r i d a ’s  To m a s  Vo k o u n  After  a  scoreless first peri- 
After protecting  a  two-goal  vious two starts.  onds in,  was  the first of his  stopped 22 shots. Vokoun was  od, Getzlaf netted an unassist­ 
lead for much of the period,  Miller’s frustration showed,  N H L  c a r e e r.  L a t e r  i n  t h e  coming off his seventh shutout  ed goal 15:17 into the second.  
the Penguins  were  holding  too, when he yanked Crosby’s  first, Derek Roy and Thomas  of the season,  a  33-save per- He picked up the puck  on  a  
o n  a t  t h e  e n d .  J a s o n  skates out from underneath  Va n e k  s c o r e d  4 8  s e c o n d s  formance in the Panthers’ 2-0  turnover by Keith Ballard and  
Pominville scored on a power  h i m  a s  a  p l a y  w a s  e n d i n g  apart to give Buffalo the lead  w i n  o v e r  t h e  Ne w  Yo r k  scored with a wrist shot from  
play with 3 minutes remain- less than  two  minutes into  and Tim Kennedy made it 3-1  Islanders on Sunday.  in front, beating Vokoun  on  
ing, and the Penguins  were  the third period.  at 7:32 of the second. Vanek  Hiller was perfect in his first  his stick side.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Michael: (cont.) on our branch. Robin: Dude you are so the reach-Liz: I’ve been stuck inside playing Pam: (cont.) Dwight’s head on it, not go it alone. Notre Dame has And... I’m... pretty nervous about it. er, you are getting her a horse. online Boggle. It’s messing with my it was horrifying and funny and...
FOR RENT many resources in place to assist And... I’m... making some cosmetic Marshall: What? head. STAR... RATS... ARTS... ——————————————— you. If you or someone you love tweaks to help create a more Robin: Take the hint, take the hint. TARS. Kelly: And it was so funny 'cause 
gradrentals.viewwork.com needs confidential support or assis-appealing environment. Is that dis-——————————————— ——————————————— we were at this bar with his friends tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at honest? Well, think of it this way: Liz: You can do some serious sub-and I was sitting next to him the 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For when you look in the mirror and you Ted: [narrating] Kids, the secret to way flirting before you realize the whole night and he wasn't making a more information, visit ND’s web see your push-up bra and your fake dating is simple. Be confident, be guy is homeless. move, so in my head I was like
PERSONAL 

site: eyelashes and your make-up and comfortable in your skin, be ——————————————— "Ryan, what's taking you so long?" If you or someone you care about http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu your press-on nails; the principles assured about who you are. Your Pam: I really like Valentine’s Day in And then he kissed me. has been sexually assaulted, we ——————————————— that I am applying to the office are uncle Barney was really good at this office.It’s kinda like grade And I didn't know what to say. can help. For more information, visit Michael: Dunder Mifflin is about to the same ones that have made that last one. Even though a lot of school. Everybody gives out little Notre Dame’s website: be sold. But first an investment Lady Gaga a star... or any number the time, who he was was actually presents and stuff. Like last year, Jim: Wow. http.csap.nd.edu banker has to drop by and sign off of drag queens. someone else. Jim gave me this card, with ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Tuesday, February 2, 2010 
page 15 
NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball AP Poll 
team previous 
1 Kansas 2 2 Villanova 3 3 Syracuse 4 4 Kentucky 1 5 Michigan State 5 6 West Virginia 9 7 Georgetown 7 8 Purdue 10 9 Texas 6 10 Duke 8 11 Kansas State 11 12 BYU 12 13 Ohio State 20 14 Tennessee 14 15 New Mexico 23 16 Wisconsin 16 17 Gonzaga 13 18 Vanderbilt 21 19 Temple 15 20 Baylor 24 21 Georgia Tech 22 22 Pittsburgh 17 23 Butler NR 24 Northern Iowa NR 25 Mississippi 18 
NCAA Division I Women’s Basketball AP Poll 
team  previous  
1  Connecticut  1  
2  Stanford  2  
3  NOTRE DAME  3  
4  Nebraska  6  
5  Tennessee  5  
6  Duke  7  
7  Xavier  10  
8  Ohio State  4  
9  North Carolina  12  
10  Oklahoma State  15  
11  West Virginia  16  
12  Texas A&M  8  
13  Oklahoma  11  
14  Georgia  9  
15  Florida State  13  
16  Baylor  14  
17  Texas  19  
18  Georgetown  17  
19  LSU  18  
20  Kentucky  NR  
21  Georgia Tech  25  
22  Iowa State  22  
23  Green Bay  24  
24  Gonzaga  NR  
25  St. John’s  NR  




around the dial 
NBA Basketball 
Clippers at Bulls 8 p.m., CSN 
Men’s NCAA Basketball 
Michigan State at Wisconsin 9 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


AFC tops NFC in Pro Bowl’s new format 
give the fans a good show.” Angeles. the rain and temperatures 
Associated Press 

Matt Schaub of the Spectators included in the 60s. It was sunny 
MIAMI — In its new role Houston Texans threw for Peyton Manning, Drew and 82 in Honolulu at as a warmup to the Super 189 yards and two AFC Brees and other Pro Bowl game time. Bowl, the Pro Bowl became scores, and was chosen the players from the Super Did the weather dampen a series of wind sprints. most valuable player. Bowl teams. Manning and the players’ enthusiasm for 
Long gains were the rule “It’s a game you watch the Indianapolis Colts will Miami? and hard hitting was the growing up as a kid and face Brees and the New “It’s beautiful. It’s para­exception as the AFC beat wonder if you could ever Orleans Saints on the same dise,” NFC receiver Steve the NFC 41-34 on Sunday be in,” Schaub said. “To field next Sunday in the Smith said. “Too bad it’s night. actually be a part of it is biggest game of the sea-not Hawaii.” 
Light showers fell for incredible.” son. Eager to host more big much of the game, stirring Aaron Rodgers also The NFL sought to trans-events, the Dolphins have memories of a rainy Super threw two touchdown form the Pro Bowl into a proposed adding a roof Bowl in Miami three years passes, and NFC teammate bigger game by playing it that would cover fans as ago. But uniforms DeSean Jackson had two before the Super Bowl for part of stadium improve-remained mostly spotless, scoring catches. the first time. In a one-ments that could cost $250 with more pushing and From the standpoint of year experiment, the million or more. NFL com-shoving than tackling. ticket sales, this year’s new league also moved the missioner Roger Goodell 
“It’s different. It was like venue and slot on the game from Honolulu, its says the upgrades are 7 on 7,” NFC linebacker league calendar was a suc-home since 1980. needed if South Florida is Brian Orakpo said. cess. The crowd of 70,697 The stadium was half to remain competitive in “Everybody came out here was the largest for a Pro empty by the third quarter, bidding for future Super trying not to get hurt and Bowl since 1959 in Los perhaps partly because of Bowls. 
IN BRIEF 

MLB accuses Upper Deck Hornets’ All Star Paul Reds send speedster Co. of stealing trademarks out with knee injury Taveras to Oakland 
NEW YORK — Major League NEW ORLEANS — Hornets’ All-CINCINNATI — A trade that saved Baseball’s licensing wing is calling Star point guard Chris Paul is out some money made the Cincinnati Reds’ out a baseball card maker for indefinitely with a left knee injury next shortstop affordable. allegedly stealing trademarks. that will likely require surgery. The Reds sent center fielder Willy 
Major League Baseball Properties An MRI revealed more damage to Taveras to the Oakland Athletics on Inc. filed a trademark lawsuit seeking the knee than the initial diagnosis Monday as part of a four-player deal, unspecified damages against The of a bruise, Hornets coach Jeff then agreed to a $3.02 million, one-year Upper Deck Co. Inc. on Monday in Bower said on Monday. The coach deal with Orlando Cabrera to become federal court in Manhattan. refused, however, to confirm their starting shortstop. Both teams 
The lawsuit said Upper Deck is con-reports that Paul had a meniscus made a series of moves that changed tinuing to sell baseball cards featur-tear and would miss at least a the looks of their rosters. ing professional baseball players month. Along with Taveras, the Reds sent even though the company is no “We’re in fact-finding stages right infielder Adam Rosales to the A’s for longer licensed to show MLB trade-now, gathering as much information infielder Aaron Miles and a player to be marks. Major League Baseball as possible for decisions to be made named. Oakland was busy as well, Properties began this year to license to take the next steps,” Bower said. agreeing with outfielder Gabe Gross on only The Topps Co. Inc. in a bid to “It is likely there will be a surgical a $750,000, one-year contract and increase its revenues from the cards. solution for it. We don’t have a claiming infielder Steve Tolleson off 
MLB Properties is indirectly owned timetable (for Paul’s return) right waivers from Minnesota. by the 30 major league clubs and acts now, nor do we know a surgical Once the A’s got Taveras, they desig­as their licensing agent. procedure right now.” nated him for assignment, along with 
A message left for Upper Deck in Paul watched the Hornets’ left-hander Dana Eveland, to create Carlsbad, Calif. was not immediately shootaround on Monday but was space on their 40-man roster for the returned Monday. unavailable to reporters. newcomers. 
page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, February 2, 2010 
NBA 
Arenas working to promote nonviolence 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Gilbert Arenas insists he now under­stands that “guns and vio­lence are serious problems, not joking matters.” 
In an op-ed piece written for The Washington Post and put on the newspaper’s Web site Monday, the suspended Washington Wizards guard pledges to be a better role model and says a “message of nonviolence will be front and center as I try to rebuild my relationship with young peo­ple in the D.C. area.” 
He continues: “I know that won’t happen overnight, and that it will happen only if I show through my actions that I am truly sorry and have learned from my mistakes. If I do that, then hopefully youngsters will learn from the serious mistakes I made with guns and not make any of their own.” 
Wizards coach Flip Saunders supported Arenas’decision to address the issue this way. 
“If he wants to get active in his community and try to help out kids, then he probably needed to say something. ... He’s got to go with what he feels in his heart,” Saunders said before his team hosted the Boston Celtics on Monday night. 
“In talking to him, I think he understands the serious­ness of what he did,” Saunders said. “He’s trying to let people know — kids, espe­cially — that he had done something wrong and try to take what was really a nega­tive and try to somehow have a positive impact.” 
Arenas pleaded guilty Jan. 15 to a felony charge of car­rying a pistol without a license. He is scheduled to be sentenced March 26. 
“I am trying hard to right my wrongs. The one that will be hardest to make right is the effect my actions have had on kids who see NBA players as role models,” Arenas says in the op -ed piece. “Professional athletes have a duty to act responsibly and to understand the influ­ence we have on all those kids who look up to us. I failed to live up to that responsibility when I broke the law and set such a bad example.” 
Last week, Arenas was sus­pended without pay for the rest of the season by NBA commissioner David Stern for bringing guns into the Wizards’locker room as part of a dispute with teammate Javaris Crittenton stemming from a card game. Crittenton also brought a gun to the locker room — and he also was handed a season-ending suspension by Stern. 
Arenas already had been suspended indefinitely by Stern earlier in January; his total ban amounts to 50 games. 
A three -time All -Star, Arenas was leading the Wizards in scoring and assists averages when he was first forced to sit out after making light of things, including pretending to “shoot” teammates with his hands during an on -court huddle before a game at Philadelphia. 
In Monday’s piece, Arenas says he gave Stern reason to suspend him and acknowl­edges he damaged “the image of the NBA and its players.” He also says he “let down our fans and Mrs. Irene Pollin, the widow of longtime Wizards owner Abe Pollin.” 
Abe Pollin changed the team’s nickname from Bullets to Wizards because of the violent connotations of the 
old name. He died in November. 
Arenas’op-ed ends by say­ing: “Some people may not forgive me for what I’ve done. But if I help steer even just one young person away from violence and trouble, then I’ll once again feel that I’m living up to Abe Pollin’s legacy and to the responsibility I owe the kids of the District.” 
MLB 

Mora signs one-year deal 
Associated Press 

DENVER— Spending the last 9½ seasons in Baltimore and watching the New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox annually battle for playoff berths left Melvin Mora with one big wish in free agency. 
“The most important thing for Melvin, being that he’s 38 years old and has been playing on a sub-.500 team for many, many years, was to get to the postseason,” Mora ’s agent, Eric Goldschmidt, said Monday. 
Mora hasn’t been to the playoffs since he was a 27­year-old rookie with the New York Mets in 1999. A year later, he was shipped to Baltimore at the trade dead­line. 
“At Melvin ’s age and where he’s at in his career, he really had me focus on the teams that we thought had the best chance of get­ting into the playoffs,” Goldschmidt said. 
The Colorado Rockies, with two playoff berths in three seasons, a core of promising, young players and the NL Manager of the Year in Jim Tracy, certainly fit that requirement. 
And when Orlando Cabrera accepted Cincinnati’s offer for a one-year contract to be the Reds’starting shortstop, the Rockies turned their atten­tion to signing Mora, who turns 38 on Tuesday. 
Goldschmidt confirmed that Mora agreed to a $1.3 million, one-year contract with Colorado, an agree ­ment first reported by foxs­ports.com. 
Mora ’s versatility was attractive to the Rockies, who signed Jason Giambi to back up first baseman Todd Helton last week. Mora is expected to serve primarily as a backup at third base for Ian Stewart, but he can also play left and center fields and back up all the infield positions. 
He could push second baseman Clint Barmes for at -bats, and with the Rockies starting left-handed hitters at all three outfield spots and at third base, the right-handed-hitting Mora can expect plenty of trips to the plate as a pinch-hitter, too. 
A career .278 hitter and a two -time All -Star, Mora slumped last year with a .260 batting average with eight homers and 48 RBIs after averaging 20 homers over his previous seven sea­sons. In 2008, he hit 23 home runs and drove in 104 while batting .285. 
Much like Giambi, who’s 39, Mora brings a veteran presence to Colorado ’s youth-filled clubhouse. 


Tuesday, February 2, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
NCAA’s concussion standards questioned 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON — A member of the House Judiciary Committee criticized the biggest conferences in college athletics Monday for failing to adopt policies on handling athlete concussions that go beyond what’s required by the NCAA. 
During a committee hear­ing on head injuries in col­lege and youth football, Rep. Steve Cohen, D-Tenn., chided leagues such as the Southeastern Conference and Big 12 for not implementing tougher rules. 
He first asked Ron Courson, director of sports medicine at the University of Georgia and a member of the NCAA Committee on Competitive Safeguards and Medical Aspects of Sports, if any con­ferences had tougher poli­cies. When he said that they did not, Cohen seemed incensed. 
“Don’t you think that’s an indictment of each of the con­ferences? That they accept the minimum that the NCAA mandates?” Cohen said. Shouldn’t conferences and schools get together and have some stricter regulations?” 
The hearing is the third held by the committee, though the first two focused on problems in the NFL. Chairman John Conyers, D-Mich, said more hearings will be held throughout the coun­try on head injuries in sports. 
Cohen suggested that col­lege athletic programs only seem to care about bringing in money and winning. 
NFL 

Super Bowl security ready 
Associated Press 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. 
— After touring a rain ­soaked Sun Life Stadium, 
U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said Monday that prepara­tions are in place to thwart any terrorist threat or safety problem at the Super Bowl. 
“We are doing everything we can think of in prepara­tion to make sure it is a great event, ” Napolitano told reporters. “I’m here today to see the operation myself. I thought it was important to get down here.” 
Milt Ahlerich, the NFL’s vice president for security, said Napolitano’s tour of the stadium in nearby Miami Gardens was the first time a Homeland Security secretary had visited a Super Bowl site before game day. 
About 1,000 federal, state and local law enforcement and security personnel are working Sunday’s game and events leading up to it, said James Loftus, director of the Miami-Dade Police Department. 
Even though the FBI reports no credible threat against the Super Bowl, al-Qaida and other terror groups have frequently expressed interest in attack­ing a major U.S. sporting event. 
“Rest assured, we’re going to look out for you,” Loftus said of what fans attending the game can expect. “We do this stuff week in and week out, and we’re good at it.” 
The nerve center for secu­rity is the FBI -run Joint Operations Center, which includes representatives from 64 agencies at all lev­els of government, said John Gillies, agent in charge of the FBI’s Miami field office. He said preparations have included intensive training and tabletop exercises involving various threat sce­narios. 
“There’s security that the public will see, and there’s security the public will not see,” Gillies said. 
The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives will have its bat­talion of bomb -detecting dogs on hand, many of them veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, said Hugo Barrera, chief of ATF ’s Miami office. He said the dogs are able to find over 19,000 separate explosives components. 
“They can detect about anything,” Barrera said. 
Fans themselves can also play a role by reporting any suspicious activity or unat­tended bags, Ahlerich said. And Napolitano said there will be a number flashed on screens at the stadium where fans can send a text message if they see anything amiss. 
Other preparations include temporary flight restrictions and a 100 -yard security perimeter around the stadi­um on game day. Fans attending the game face a long list of prohibited items, including long-lens cameras, camcorders, backpacks, noisemakers, coolers and camera tripods. 
NFL 

Payton keeping his team happy 

Associated Press 
DAVIE, Fla. — Sean Payton had taken a few pages from the playbook of the late coach­ing great Bill Walsh before. 
Not quite like this, though. 
Ever focused on the mood of his players, the Saints’head coach kicked off Super Bowl week by donning a bellhop uniform and helping with lug­gage when the team bus showed up at its downtown Miami hotel on Monday. 
Drew Brees 

and the Saints’ “It is what it is. feel the pres-six other Pro sure or the hype 
Weather the storm. 
Bowl players in the media 
We know how to do 
joined him, and everything hoping to ease that.” else,” Brees whatever ten -said. “But I sion accompa-think that’s one 
Drew Brees 
nied the Saints of Sean’s great 
Saints quarterback 
on the first strengths — the 
Super Bowl trip in the club’s 43­year history. 
“You never lose track of the job you have and for about a half hour today those Pro Bowl players, I thought, earned some pretty good tips here with our players getting off the buses and handling the lug­gage,” Payton said, his eyes twinkling while he otherwise continued to speak in his typi­cal wooden tone. “We’re always wanting to steal a pret­ty good idea. I think Bill Walsh, a long time ago, had a pretty good idea and we just kind of took it like one of his offensive plays and ran with it.” 
When Walsh coached the 1981 San Francisco 49ers to the first of five Super Bowls for that franchise, he did essentially the same thing. The Joe Montana-led Niners beat Cincinnati, 26-21. 
The Saints are hoping for similar success against the favored Indianapolis Colts on Sunday. 
Brees and his teammates were amused by Payton, but not surprised. Playing for Payton means constantly encountering motivational poems in one’s locker, watch­ing inspirational videos or lis­tening to guest speakers like former 49ers safety Ronnie Lott, who addressed the team the night before its NFC cham­pionship victory over Minnesota. 
“You could very easily get to this week and all of a sudden 
want to put too 
much pressure 
on yourself or 
ability to con­stantly have his finger on the 
pulse of the team and know when it’s time to work, when it’s time to joke and have a good time and, obviously, when the guys pulled up he like the 6-foot-4, 318 pound Evans, were too big for the getups. 
“I had to stretch it out a lit­tle bit, but it felt pretty good,” Evans said. “Just imagine their reaction when they got off the bus and saw us stand­ing there. It was just pretty funny.” 
For the Saints, the moment brightened an otherwise drea­ry, rainy day in Miami. 
The weather forced the club to change and delay practice plans, but Payton dismissed the inconvenience as minor. Ever mindful of what the Saints and all of New Orleans went through after Hurricane Katrina in 2005, no one on this team was about to com­plain about a steady rain and an extra 45-minute bus ride to an indoor field at the Miami Dolphins’training headquar­ters in Davie. 
“It is what it is. Weather the storm. We know how to do that,” Brees said. “We jumped right on the buses, went to the practice field, got a good sweat in, got a good workout in and I think it just really set 

thought that the tone for us 
“Just imagine their
would be a and our mindset 
reaction when they
good way to for this week.” welcome every-got off the bus and The Saints body in and it were initially 
saw us standing
was.” scheduled to 
there. It was just
The other practice at the Saints’ Pro pretty funny.” University of Bowlers who Miami in Coral borrowed bell-Gables, where 
Jahri Evans
hop uniforms — New Orleans 
Saints right guard
white button-tight end 
down coats with black shoulder patches and black pants — from the team hotel included right guard Jahri 
Ev an s,  center  Jonathan  
Goodwin, right  tack le  Jon  
S tinchcomb,  line backer  

Jonathan Vilma, and safeties Darren Sharper and Roman Harper. 
Some of the bigger players, 
Jeremy Shockey 
and linebacker Jonathan Vilma both starred. On Monday, the Saints still went to campus and changed there, then took a bus up to Davie. The plan is to return to Coral Gables for practices this week as weather permits, with the bubble at Dolphins head­quarters serving as the contin­gency if rain persists. 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, February 2, 2010 
MLB 
Cabrera signs with Reds 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI — A trade that saved some money made the Cincinnati Reds’next shortstop affordable. 
The Reds sent center fielder Willy Taveras to the Oakland Athletics on Monday as part of a four-player deal, then agreed to a $3.02 million, one-year 
deal with Orlando Cabrera to become their starting shortstop. Both teams made a series of moves that changed the looks of their ros­ters. 
Along with Taveras, the Reds sent infielder Adam Rosales to the A’s for infield­er Aaron Miles and a player to be 
named. Oakland was busy as well, agreeing with outfielder Gabe Gross on a $750,000, one-year contract and claiming infielder Steve Tolleson off waivers from Minnesota. 
Once the A’s got Taveras, they designated him for assignment, along with left-hander Dana Eveland, to create space on their 40-man roster for the newcomers. 
“I think we’ve been able to do some things to improve our club where we weren’t too sure we would be in position to do that,” Reds general manager in 160 games. Cincinnati expects to bat him second, with 25-year-old Drew Stubbs in line to bat leadoff now that Taveras is gone. 
“I’m going to do everything I can, even if I have to change my name to one Ocho,” Cabrera said, referring to Bengals receiver Chad Ochocinco. 
The Reds thought they’d filled their long-standing hole at the top of the batting order when they signed Taveras to a two-year deal, but he struggled with injuries last season, batted .240 and had an on-base per­centage of only .275 with 25 stolen bases. A free swinger, Taveras drew only 18 walks in 435 plate appearances. 
Cincinnati saved $4 million by getting rid of Taveras, who was due that much in the final year of his deal. That will cover Cabrera’s deal and part of Miles’contract, which pays him $2.7 million this season. 
The 33-year-old Miles batted .175 in 84 games with the Cubs last season, when he had shoulder and elbow injuries. The Cubs traded him to the A’s in December along with Jake Fox as part of a five-player deal. 
Jocketty came from St. Louis, where Miles was part of the Cardinals’2006 World Series champions. He batted .318 for St. Louis in 2008, and is pegged as a backup infielder in Cincinnati. 
NFL 

Lawsuit filed against Hicks and Rangers 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — An architectur­al firm and a construction company accused the Texas Rangers and owner Tom Hicks on Monday of failing to pay $6.9 million for more than three years’worth of work. 
In a lawsuit filed in state district court in Dallas, RTKL Associates Inc. and Vratsinas Construction allege that they are owed the money for work on a pro­posed development adjacent to Rangers Ballpark in Arlington. 
According to the lawsuit, RTKL, a Baltimore -based architectural firm, and Little Rock, Ark.-based Vratsinas provided significant services relating to the planning, design and construction of the proposed Glorypark development, yet were not paid. The project was put on hold by Hicks in 2008 for what he said was a lack of financing. 
Some of the companies’­work also was performed on the ballpark itself, according to the suit. 
John Nassen, an attorney for the plaintiffs, said pay­ments were made to his clients initially, but they became infrequent and even­tually stopped altogether. 
“In the end, the effort of many, many people was such that $6.9 million was invest­ed by the plaintiff group and they were not paid,” he said. 
Nassen said the filing of the suit was unrelated to the Jan. 23 announcement of the pending sale of the Rangers by Hicks Sports Group to a group headed by Pittsburgh attorney Chuck Greenberg. 
Rangers officials said the team would have no com ­ment on the suit. 
Hicks Sports Group issued a statement saying it could-n’t comment on the suit 
b e c a u s e  n o n e  o f  
H i c k s ’ e n t i t i e s  h a d  b e e n  
served. However, the  state­ 

ment noted that another company named in the suit, Steiner & Associates of Columbus, Ohio, was the Glorypark developer. 
Steiner & Associates filed suit against Hicks on Jan. 21 seeking to determine who has the rights to 45 acres of land tied to the stalled proj­ect. 

Walt Jocketty said. “A lot of it was being patient and waiting for the market to drop to our level, where we could afford to do some things.” 
Cabrera got a deal that pays him a $1.25 million signing bonus and $770,000 salary this year. The agreement includes a $4 million mutual option for 2011. If Cabrera declines it, he 
“I’m going to do everything I can, even if I have to change my name to one Ocho.” 
Orlando Cabrera 
Reds shortstop 
gets a $500 ,000 buyout. If he accepts it and the team declines, he receives a $1 million buy­out. 
Cincinnati traded short­stop Alex Gonzalez to Boston last August, leav­ing the posi­
tion to Paul Janish, a solid defensive player who batted .211. 
Several teams were interest­ed in Cabrera as a second base­man, making the Reds a more attractive destination because he could play his natural posi­tion. 
“A little bit,” Cabrera said. “But I think the challenge of the Reds is better for me.” 
The 35-year-old shortstop played for Oakland and Minnesota last season, batting a combined .284 with 36 dou­bles, nine homers and 77 RBIs 


Tuesday, February 2, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Bears hire new coordinator 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Mike Martz, the headstrong coach who orches­trated “The Greatest Show on Turf” while molding Kurt Warner into a Pro Bowl quar­terback with the St. Louis Rams, is the Chicago Bears’new offensive coordina­tor. 
Martz’s hiring Monday ended a nearly monthlong search to replace the fired Ron Turner. His job is to turn around a struggling offense and get the most out of Jay Cutler after the quarterback and team failed to meet high expectations this season. 
Cutler threw a league-lead­ing 26 interceptions after a blockbuster trade with Denver. The Bears went 7-9 and missed the playoffs for the third straight year since the 2006 team’s Super Bowl run, leading to a coaching shake-up in which Turner and five other assistants were let go and coach Lovie Smith relinquished defensive play-calling duties. 
The Bears still are looking for a defensive coordinator as well as a quarterbacks and tight ends coach, but they finally settled a big issue. 
“Lovie was very clear at the beginning of the process that this was going to take time and he was going to go through it step by step,” said Martz, who expressed interest early on. “That’s always difficult, but he did it the right way — especial­ly since I got the job.” 
Martz seemed like a logical choice, considering he hired Smith as the Rams’defensive coordinator in 2001 and is known for developing quarter­backs. His history with Warner, who went from stocking gro­cery store shelves to thriving in one of the most prolific offens­es in NFL history, is well-docu­mented. 
With Martz in his first year as offensive coordinator under Dick Vermeil, the 1999 Rams won the Super Bowl and pro­duced the first of a record three straight 500-point sea­sons. Warner, meanwhile, threw for 4,353 yards and 41 touchdowns while starring alongside Marshall Faulk, Isaac Bruce and Torry Holt in “The Greatest Show on Turf.” 
Martz replaced Vermeil as head coach in 2000 and went on to produce a 56-36 record in five and a half seasons, leading the 2001 team back to the Super Bowl. But while making a name for himself with the Rams, Martz became known for a confidence that bordered on arrogance. He allegedly clashed with the front office there, and while on leave for a heart ailment in 2005, he announced he would miss the rest of the season before getting fired that January. 
He spent the next two years as the Detroit Lions’offensive coordinator, coaxing the first 4,000-yard season out of Jon Kitna, and held the same job with the San Francisco 49ers in 2008. In both cases, he got sent packing for his pass-happy ways. 
Now, after spending last sea­son as an NFL Network ana­lyst, Martz is reuniting with Smith, who often has said he likes “to get off the bus run­ning.” 
He’ll also be on the same staff as former Lions coach Rod Marinelli, who’s now working with the Bears’defensive line. And he’ll be tutoring a quarterback in Cutler whose postgame demeanor he criticized follow­ing a season-opening loss at Green Bay in which he threw four interceptions. 
Martz said he “immediately” addressed that issue when he visited Cutler in Nashville over the weekend, after interview­ing at Halas Hall. 
I felt like I had a pretty good understanding of who he was, the integrity and the dignity that he has and how classy a guy he is,” said Martz, who first met Cutler when he was coming into the league. “And how he kind of misrepresented himself with that, really totally out of frustration from that game. He’s going to be one of the elite players in this league for a long time and those are things he’s going to have to deal with. It was a very diffi­cult situation for him, very dif­ficult.” 
Martz said their visit went “even better than anticipated.” 
There was an instant con­nection,” he said. 
Smith, meanwhile, dismissed the idea that Cutler was calling the shots. He pointed out that center Olin Kreutz met with former Minnesota Vikings head coach Mike Tice, who has been hired as Chicago’s offensive line coach. And tight end Greg Olsen talked with Rob Chudzinski, who also was in the running for offensive coor­dinator. 


NFL 

Colts hope Freeney able to play Sunday 
Associated Press 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. — The hope is that Dwight Freeney will play in Sunday’s Super Bowl for the Indianapolis Colts. 
The plan is to play the game without him. 
After Freeney missed all four practices last week, Coach Jim Caldwell said Monday the team was prepar­ing to play without the injured All-Pro defensive end. 
“He hasn’t been practicing, so if he’s not practicing, we are preparing to not have him,” Caldwell told reporters after arriving in South Florida. “If he can’t go, we’ll do some rotations, and Raheem (Brock) will be a big 
That’s why the Saints would prefer seeing as little of the five-time Pro Bowler as possi­ble. 
“Obviously, Dwight Freeney is a great player. Obviously, we would love for him not to play in the game,” New Orleans running back Reggie Bush said. “But we’re going to prepare like he’s playing in the game. We’re going to con­tinue to chip block. We’re going to continue to do what­ever we can to keep the pres­sure off (Drew Brees).” 
Freeney’s teammates under­stand how big a blow Freeney’s absence could be. 
They are also convinced that 
Brock, an eight-
year veteran 
who has been a 
key part in 
Indy’s expanded 

part of that.” “He has special blitz packages 
Freeney is this season, 
characteristics about
listed as ques-would be a tionable on the him and I’m counting capable 
team’s injury on those this week.” replacement. report with a “Of course sprained right you hope he’ll 
Peyton Manning 
ankle. Caldwell be out there. reiterated the Colts quarterback You want to 
team’s position, saying Freeney has a third-degree, low-ankle sprain and is improving. 
A week after team president Bill Polian said Freeney would play, he now says the player’s chance of seeing action was 50-50. 
One report indicated Freeney had torn a ligament and a person close to Freeney told The Associated Press on Sunday that the ankle was “really bad.” The person spoke on the condition of anonymity because his infor­mation differed from the team’s. 
However, the Colts remain optimistic. 
“I’m very hopeful he will play,” quarterback Peyton Manning said. “He has special characteristics about him and I’m counting on those this week.” 
Freeney also has a penchant for disproving conventional wisdom. From the moment the Colts drafted him with the No. 11 pick in 2002, some criti­cized the team for reaching on a player that had been described as a situational pass rusher. Freeney came off the bench for the first eight games his rookie season and finished with 13 sacks. He became the first Indy player to win the league sacks title in 2004, with 16, and has produced at least 10 sacks in six of eight NFL seasons. 
Freeney has a rare combina­tion of speed, leverage and uncanny spin moves, which makes life difficult for oppo­nents. 
look to your 
right and see 
Dwight,” defen­
sive tackle Daniel Muir said. “Even with Dwight not out there, though, we’ve had success. It’s next man up. If he can’t go, we’ve got to pick up the bayonet and go.” 
That’s been the Colts motto since former coach Tony Dungy arrived in 2002, and it has never been more impera­tive than this season. 
Indy won its first 14 games despite losing starters Bob Sanders, Marlin Jackson, Tyjuan Hagler and Kelvin Hayden for long stretches. Only Hayden has returned. 
Now, though, the concern is focused squarely on Indy’s most important defensive player and whether he’ll be as effective — if he plays at all. 
“Dwight is playing and he will be 100 percent by the game,” Brackett joked, poking fun at the intrigue before turning serious. “Honestly, I have no clue. But if anybody can come back from an injury, it’s Dwight. He’s had weird things all season. People said he would miss 10 weeks and then he plays in seven days.” 
The question is: Can he do it again? 
“It’s a tough deal, but injuries happen in football. Come Sunday, I’m confident he’ll be there,” said Hayden, who is best remembered for scoring the game -sealing touchdown in the Colts’Super Bowl victory three years ago. “I’m kind of certain and confi­dent that he’ll be out there and that he’ll be effective.” 


page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, February 2, 2010 

Rutgers 
continued from page 24 
energy defense to disrupt Notre Dame and was able to cut the lead down to two points several times. 
“They’re a great team,” McGraw said. “They are just 
so, so athletic. Their press, their defense. They’re an 
outstanding defensive team. Their backs were against the wall, they needed a win.” 
H o w e v e r, Notre Dame’s leaders stepped up 
“We matched their intensity. I was really proud of the team.” 
Muffet McGraw Irish coach 


just as the younger Rutgers squad began to get tired. 
With a 57-53 lead and 3:10 left to go in the game, senior guard Ashley Barlow hit a 3­pointer to spark a 9-2 run by the Irish. Two minutes later Notre Dame led 66-55 and simply needed to run out the clock. 
“That was a “Our strength is in our huge shot,” 
balance. We don’t rely 
McGraw said. 
on one person and that
“[Barlow] is cer­tainly somebody makes us hard to we’d like to 
guard. We share the 
have shoot the 
ball, we work for the 
ball in that situ­ation. It was good shot.” really big.” 
In a low-scor-
Muffet McGraw 
ing first half, 
Irish coach
Rutgers was up 9-5 after five minutes of play. Notre Dame soon erased that lead with a 10-2 run punctuated by six Scarlet Knight turnovers. Rutgers turned the ball over 15 times in the first half, and the Irish made the most of the 
opportunities to score 14 points. Notre Dame went into halftime leading 31-23. 
“They were focused in the beginning, they came out ready to go,” McGraw said. “We matched their intensity. I was really proud of the team.” 
The Scarlet Knights cut the Irish lead quickly after half­time. Though they did not even attempt a free throw in the first half, they scored six in the first five minutes to cut the lead to 38-33. In the peri­
od, Rutgers shot 14 -of -18 from the line. 
Freshman guard Skylar Diggins led the Irish with 14 points. Junior forward Becca Bruszewski (13), senior guard Melissa Lechlitner (12), junior forward Devereaux Peters 
(11) and senior guard Lindsay Schrader (10) all scored in double figures as well. 
“Our strength is in our bal ­ance,” McGraw said. “We don’t rely on one person and that makes us hard to guard. We share the ball, 
we work for the good shot.” 
Rutgers guard Khadijah Rushdan scored 16 points to lead her team, while forward Myia McCurdy added 14, all in the second half. Center Chelsey Lee recorded a dou­ble-double with 11 points and 
10 rebounds. 
The Scarlet Knights out ­rebounded the Irish 46­38, though each team grabbed 20 boards in the second half. The Irish have strug ­gled with rebounding all season. 
“We’ve got a lot of work to do there,” McGraw said. 
“We’ve got to figure that out. It’s going to cost us a game. So we’ll be working on that in practice this week.” 
Notre Dame will have a short break before returning home to face Pittsburgh Saturday. 
“We need it. We’re exhaust­ed,” McGraw said. “Four games in eight days, that was a brutal stretch of the sea­son.” 
That game will begin at 2 
p.m. in the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
NFL 

Ochocinco to cover Super Bowl 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI — Chad Ochocinco and other promi­nent NFL players will be ask­ing the questions and giving reports during Super Bowl week. 
The media-savvy Bengals receiver plans to attend news conferences and parties lead­ing up to the title game in Miami, gathering insights from coaches, players and celebri­ties for his array of social net­works. 
He’ll have help in the unprecedented plan. Redskins tight end Chris Cooley, Ravens Pro Bowl running back Ray Rice and Cardinals Pro Bowl defensive lineman Darnell Dockett also will be toting microphones and tossing ques­tions at the Colts and the Saints — and maybe even com­missioner Roger Goodell. 
It’s the first such venture since the receiver formed his “Ochocinco News Network” with Motorola. 
“It’ll be something new, something never done before,” Ochocinco told The Associated Press in a phone interview from Miami, where he played in the Pro Bowl on Sunday night. 
Ochocinco and his three helpers plan to function as reporters, updating a Web site and a Twitter feed during the week. The players have hun­dreds of thousands of regular followers on their personal Twitter accounts and other social network platforms. 
They expect to attend media sessions where players and coaches are available, conduct interviews with guests at the media headquarters, and pro­vide behind-the-scenes glimpses at the nightly Super Bowl parties in Miami. 
The goal is to provide play­ers’ reactions to the whirlwind week. 
“That’s what everybody wants to hear,” Ochocinco said. “They want to hear the play­ers’ perspective. They don’t want to hear what the other (media) outlets say about what they feel is going on. People want to hear what the players feel about the events, the whole nine yards.” 
The Pro Bowl receiver launched his “News Network” last October, planning to enlist other NFL players in breaking news. He didn’t do much with it during the season as the sur­prising Bengals won the AFC North title before losing to the Jets in the playoffs. 
“At that time as the season neared the end, I had to slow down a little bit on most of the social media stuff,” he said. “Coach (Marvin) Lewis never said anything directly to me, but you understood that it was­n’t the right time to be doing as much as I used to. So this is the perfect time to do what I’m doing right now, and I’m the perfect fit for it.” 
Motorola, which is promoting its MOTOBLUR technology, assembled the four-player crew that will cover the Super Bowl. 
“When OCNN first launched, the goal was to give fans unprecedented access into Chad’s life and the game he loves,” Motorola marketing officer Bill Ogle said. “Expanding OCNN with more correspondents for the Super Bowl just made sense.” 
All four players are adept at social networking, but have never been involved in such a project. 
“To be honest, I don’t really know Chad that well,” Cooley said in a phone interview. “He’s so outgoing, he’s such a prevalent figure in social net­working. When Motorola asked me to do this, I was excited because I get to hang out with Chad for a week.” 
Dockett got to experience the other side of the Super Bowl last year when the Cardinals lost the title game to the Steelers. The other three play­ers will be experiencing it for the first time. 
“I can’t wait,” Cooley said. “It should be a lot of fun. Just to be interviewing Peyton (Manning), to talk to Drew Brees — that will be great.” 
They’re taking it seriously. The four players had a produc­tion meeting on Monday. They plan to attend media day with the Colts and Saints on Tuesday, arriving in their own OCNN van. When evening comes, they’ll split up to attend the parties and report on them. 
Ochocinco should have the inside scoop on one event. He’s hosting a party for 400 people at his South Beach home on Friday night that will raise money for Haiti. 
The NFL commissioner tradi­tionally holds a question-and­answer session with reporters during the week. Ochocinco plans to be in the media con­tingent and hopes to get called. 
What would he ask Goodell? 
“I’m not sure right now,” he said. “When that time comes, I’ll be prepared for him.” 

Tuesday, February 2, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
season. “I would love to make another 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Schultz 

appearance at the indoor continued from page 24 national meet in March,” Schultz 
Cousins grows up at Kentucky 

said. “I’m definitely looking for­ing fifth in the 400 at the NCAA ward to the outdoor season. My 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. — DeMarcus Cousins doesn’t answer ques­tions after games so much as he holds court. 
The gregarious freshman cen­ter is as refreshingly unfiltered as head coach John Calipari is polished. Blunt and direct, Cousins is unapologetically hon­est whether the topic is his sometimes eccentric postgame attire or his ability to attract controversy wherever he goes. 
Yes, Cousins thinks he may be the best center in the Southeastern Conference. Yes, he believes the referees swallow their whistles sometimes when the ball is in his hands. Yes, he may have pushed a South Carolina student out of the way while trying to get off the court last week, but he didn’t punch him as at least one reporter claimed. 
Hey, it’s all a part of the game when you’re “Big Cuz,” one of the handful of monikers Cousins goes by. 
“I’m just doing my part,” Cousins said from behind his nonprescription black-rimmed glasses, part of what he calls his “Peter Parker” swag. 
Fencers 
continued from page 24 
a thrashing of top-ranked Ohio State. 
“At this moment we didn’t lose any bouts against confer­ence teams,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. “They will be coming for revenge in 
And he’s playing his part as well as any player in the coun­try. 
Powered by nimble footwork, soft hands and a relentless intensity that sometimes gets him in trouble, the 6-foot-11, 260-pound Cousins is challeng­ing the notion that heralded teammate John Wall is the most NBA-ready player on the fourth-ranked Wildcats (20-1, 5-1 Southeastern Conference), who host No. 25 Ole Miss (16-5, 4-3) on Tuesday. 
Cousins is averaging 16.2 points, 9.7 rebounds and 1.8 blocks a game, good numbers that become staggering when Cousins’ limited court time is factored in. He plays barely half the game—21 minutes a night— because of his inability to stay out of foul trouble. 
“A lot has been made about John Wall, because he is a ter­rific player, and deservedly so,” said Vanderbilt coach Kevin Stallings. “But Cousins, even though at a different position, is just as much a factor right now for their team.” 
Stallings got an eyeful on Saturday when Cousins scored 21 points and 10 rebounds in 24 minutes of Kentucky’s 85-72 
our duals in Notre Dame.” 
It is important for the team to establish a presence within the conference as the Midwest Championships approach. The next few weeks will be a cru­cial test of the team’s pre­paredness to take on the fierce competition that comes with qualifications for nation­als. 
“Midwest Championships teaming him with A.J. Ogilvy and Jeffery Taylor whenever Cousins touched the ball in the post. 

Mideast Regionals.  goal is to continue scoring points  
victory.  Schultz had knee surgery in  for my team at both the indoor  
The Commodores thought  September and worried that it  and outdoor Big East champi­ 
they had the right game plan to  would hinder her performance  onship meets.”  
slow Cousins down, double- in the indoor and outdoor sea- Millar echoed these hopes and  

“We told our players what he would do when he was double-teamed, and he did it,” Stallings said. 
The Commodores just couldn’t stop it. 
Cousins dunked on Kentucky’s first possession, then spun around Ogilvy for a layup while getting fouled the next time down the floor, one of four sons. So far, there is no evi­dence that she is struggling at all. On the other hand, this is the best start to the season that Schultz has put forth in her four years at Notre Dame. 
“I’m ahead of where I was last year at this 

“Joanna has a terrifc work ethic and is very disciplined in her training.” 
John Millar Irish coach 
spoke further about Schultz’s potential suc­cess. 
“She certainly has the potential to become an All-American in both the indoor and outdoor sea­son” he said. 
Though facing the end of her Notre Dame track career at 
three-point plays Cousins con-

time and I’ve been able to stay the conclusion of this outdoor 
verted in the opening 10 min-

healthy,” Schultz said. season, Schultz is thankful for 
utes to help the Wildcats build a 

Irish sprints coach John Millar her time on the team. 
16-point lead. 

had only good things to say “My experiences with Notre 
“I saw a lot of stuff saying I 

about Schultz’s dedication and Dame track and field have been 
never played against a real big 

athleticism. nothing but wonderful. I couldn’t 
man and (Ogilvy) is the best big 

“Joanna has a terrific work have asked more for better 
man in our conference,” 
ethic and is very 
Cousins said. “Not even close.” 
disciplined in 
All that contact, however, 
her training,” 

Millar said. “She “[Schultz] certaintly
comes with a price. Cousins 
complained of a sore chin after 

realizes the com-has the potential to
getting smacked around against 
mitment it takes 

become an All-
the Commodores. The referees 
to be successful 

American in both the
rewarded his effort with 13 trips 
in track and she 
to the foul line. It’s a number he 

takes care of the indoor and outdoor 
thinks should increase. 
little things that 

season.” 
make a differ­
ence in perform­

ance.” John Millar 
Millar also Irish coach
will be in the beginning of teammates or coaches. It has been a lot of hard work, but I’d do it again in a heartbeat,” Schultz said. 
She said she hopes to contin­ue training after she gradu­ates. 
“I love run­ning and com­peting and it would be hard for me to give it 
up after this year,” Schultz said. 
Schultz and the Irish will next compete at the Meyo Invitational Saturday and Sunday in the Loftus Sports Center. 
March, we will try to prove ourselves to the conference,” Bednarski said. 
The Irish will play host to the annual Notre Dame Duals this weekend, lasting all day Saturday and Sunday at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at 
kbaldwi2@nd.edu 
mentioned the leadership role that Schultz has assumed along with her senior status. 
“She not only leads by exam­ple but is willing to offer advice and criticism when needed,” he said. 
Both Schultz and Millar have high hopes for the rest of the 
Contact Kaitlyn Murphy at kmurph28@nd.edu 


NBA 

Cavs score 46 in first quarter, maul Clippers 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — When LeBron James hit his fourth 3-pointer of the first quarter — from 30 feet away — Los Angeles Clippers coach Mike Dunleavy sat silent in his chair while the sold-out crowd roared around him. 
There was little Dunleavy or his team could do to stop the Cleveland Cavaliers during their 114-89 win Sunday night. 
James scored half of Cleveland’s 46 points in the first quarter and the streaking Cavaliers tied an NBA record with 11 3-pointers in the open­ing period of their season-best eighth straight victory. 
The whole spectacle left Dunleavy stunned. 
“I’ve got money that I’ll put them in the gym naked, nobody else on them, and they probably can’t make 11 out of 13 again from the same spots,” Dunleavy said. “They hit some shots in that first quarter that I know in 30 years of being in the NBA that I’ve (never) seen a team make.” 
The 46 points tied a franchise mark for most in a quarter, and Cleveland’s 16 3-pointers fell one shy of the team record for a game. 
The leader, as usual, was James. He made his first seven shots and finished with 32 points and 11 assists. His five 3­pointers in the first equaled the team’s mark for most by a play­er in a quarter. 
The hotter James got, the deeper he started firing — shots he playfully refers to as “heat checks.” By the end of the first quarter, the Q was sizzling with a 46-20 Cleveland lead. 
James heaved baskets from 30 and 28 feet as the Cavaliers made 3-pointers on seven con­secutive possessions in the peri­od. 
“There’s no description of a player getting into the zone like that. It just happens,” James said. “And when it happens, everything you put up, you feel like it’s going in.” 
Early on, that was true. Anderson Varejao appeared to toss an alley-oop to Jamario Moon in the second quarter, but ended up making the basket when his lob sailed high. Varejao had 11 points and seven rebounds off the bench. 
All of Cleveland’s first-quarter 3-pointers came within the flow of the offense—either Shaquille O’Neal passing out of the post or James passing out of double teams. 

page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, February 2, 2010 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Notre Dame goaltender Mike Johnson makes a save in the Irish’s 3-2 win over Nebraska-Omaha Saturday. The Irish are currently fourth in the CCHA standings heading into a fve-game road trip. 
CCHA 
continued from page 24 
Nebraska-Omaha, while junior center Ben Ryan was listed as inactive for undisclosed rea­sons in Saturday night’s 3-2 victory over the Mavericks. 
The Irish only dressed five defensemen in the series, with All-American junior Ian Cole, junior Teddy Ruth, freshman Sam Calabrese and sophomore Eric Ringel all listed as injured. 
“I want to get to the bye week and try to get people healthy and try to get as strong as we can,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “We need to start playing as a team again, getting ready to go into the playoffs. But all we’re worrying about right now is how we’re playing right now, because it matters the most.” 
The Irish will get a chance to make up some ground in the CCHA with upcoming road series against conference bot­tom-feeders Western Michigan and Bowling Green, before tak­ing on rival Michigan in a home-and-home matchup. Notre Dame will not return to the Joyce Center until Feb. 27, the final game of the season and the last chance for the Irish to stake out a spot near the top of the CCHA. 
Notre Dame will need every point it can get, with only four points separating the fourth-place Irish and 10th-place Northern Michigan. The top four teams in the CCHA will earn a first-round bye in the conference tournament and host a second-round matchup. 
“You look at the standings, there’s six teams in the mix, anywhere from third to 10th,” Jackson said. “So the teams we’re playing down the stretch we have to play well.” 
Despite scrounging up 10 points in its last six games, Notre Dame has certainly left some points on the ice. Most recently, the Irish squandered a 2-1 lead Friday evening, allow­ing four straight Nebraska-Omaha goals en route to a 5-3 loss. 
“We’ve had some games where the opponents made the games more challenging towards the end, and we didn’t respond the way we could,” Jackson said. “We want to start building some consistency.” 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 


Doubles 
continued from page 24 
Despite their 4-3 loss to Tulsa this past weekend, the Irish are hoping to rebound from failing to clinch tight matches last season. 
The Irish dropped seven matches by the score of 4-3 last year, and with more experience the team hopes to turn those close losses into wins. 
Helgeson is the only starter who did not return from last season, leaving a strong core group of players that are helping the freshmen adjust and make an impact on the lineup. 
Talmadge, Moros and Moore are contributing as they have combined for three singles wins already through the early portion of the spring schedule. 
The Irish will next travel to Durham, N.C., to take on Duke Sunday with first serve set for noon. 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 


Tuesday, February 2, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
63Italian wine region 64ID with two hyphens 65Mythical lecher 66School attended by 007 
Down 
1 So-and-so 2 Nigerian natives 3 “B,” maybe, in 
anencyclopedia 4 Photo lab abbr. 5 Officer-to-be 6 “Humble” 
dwelling 7 White House Web address 
ending 8 Eden exile 9 “___ out!” (ump’s 
call) 10Mark down for a 
sale, say 11Verdi aria 12___Wetsy (old 
doll) 15San ___(Bay 
Area county) 17Additional 21Hinge holder 23Songwriter 
Novello 24Rotational speed meas. 25Homes for 46­Down 26___-proof (easy tooperate) 
27Guthrie who sang about Alice’s Restaurant 
28Nut case 31Cornice support 32Of service 

WILL SHORTZ 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  
13  14  15  
16  17  18  
19  20  21  
22  23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  
30  31  32  33  34  35  
36  37  38  39  
40  41  42  43  
44  45  
46  47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  55  
56  57  58  59  60  
61  62  63  
64  65  66  

Puzzle by Peter A. Collins 

33Salaries, e.g., to 44Salt’s “Halt!” 50Autumn shade abusiness 
45Creamy cheese 54“Render ___owner 46Things hidden in Caesar …” 
34Leftmost 
theanswersto

compartment in 55Horse halter 
this puzzle’s six 
atill starred clues 57PC pop-ups 

35Parker products 47Zoo noises 58Teachers’org. 

37German indefinite article 

48“Gimme a 59Neighbor of break!” Que.
39Lounge around 42Part of P.E.I.: 49Quick with the 60Singer Corinne Abbr. zingers Bailey___ 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 aminute;or, withacredit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions areavailable for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&Tusers: Text NYTX to 386todownload puzzles, orvisit nytimes.com/mobilexword for moreinformation. Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and morethan 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 ayear). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

Across 
1 Hipster’s jargon 
5 Shrewd 10Yank’s foe 13Black, tobards 14Outranking 15“A___ 
bagatelle!” 16*Did adog trick 18Toiling away 19The Wildcats of 
the Big 12 Conf. 20Took charge 21Rebounds, 
shooting percentage,etc. 
22*One who’s often doing favors 
27Tylenol alternative 29Martinez with three Cy Youngs 30___-Rooter 31Shrimp-on-the­barbieeater 33Fancy dresser 
36*Affordable, as anapartment 38*Tugboat rope 40“Bed-in” participant Yoko 
41Most dangerous, aswinter roads 
43Pullers in pairs 44“You can’t teach ___dog …” 
45Sprinkle holy wateron 46*Aldous Huxley novel 51Hawkeye State native 52“___ onparle français” 53Mangy mutt 56Door-busting equipment 
57*Bar patron’s request for a refill 
61“Dang it!” 62Al ___(pasta order) 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Tuesday, February 2, 2010 page 24 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Team focused on finding right doubles combinations 
By KATELYN GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
With a wealth of experience and young talent, the prob­lem for the Irish hasn’t been finding quality players, but how to pair them up. 
The Irish have been focus­ing on doubles play and com­binations in practice heading into the start of the season and will continue to try dif­ferent teams together. 
“[Casey] Watt and [Tyler] Davis played together last fall and had some good results, but they need to buy into a system that gives them a bet­ter chance to win, playing higher percentages and being more consistent, or perhaps find other partners,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
“[Stephen] Havens and [Niall] Fitzgerald have been a pleasant surprise so far. After that it will be our challenge to find a solid No. 3 team from [Matt] Johnson, [Spencer] Talmadge, [Dan] Stahl, [Michael] Moore, [Blas] Moros, [Sean] Tan and [Sam] Keeton.” 
The No. 30 Irish are coming off of a 1-1 road trip that saw them lose a tight decision to Tulsa and then rebound for a 4-1 victory over New Mexico. 
The Irish have been relying 
on a lot of their depth already this season to help fill in the gaps in certain positions. 
Junior David Anderson has played a key role already this spring, winning the clinching match against New Mexico Sunday. 
Anderson has also been a force for the Irish at doubles, picking up a win with Talmadge against the Lobos. 
Watt has established him­self at the top of the singles lineup for the Irish taking 
over for graduated senior 
Brett Helgeson. “Casey has a top-20 ranking because he beat several of the country’s better players in the Midwest Regionals, and he deserves it,” Bayliss said. “Now he will become a target rather than a hunter and we will see how he handles it, as plenty of players have trouble with expectations. It is good that we have four players in college tennis’s top 100 and I hope that we will have that kind of balance this year.” 
see DOUBLES/page 22 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Garden State escape 
Notre Dame holds off tough Rutgers squad 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
No. 3 Notre Dame held off a scrappy Rutgers team Monday to defeat the Scarlet Knights for the first time since 2005. Prior to their 75­63 win at the Louis Brown Athletic Center in Piscataway, N.J., the Irish had lost five straight to Rutgers. 
Notre Dame (20-1, 7-1 Big East) took the lead with 12 minutes to go in the first half but had to work to keep it. 
“It was a great win,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “I thought the seniors really came in focused, they hadn’t beaten them in their last three tries, and they were all instrumental in the win.” 

Though the Irish were up by as many as nine early in the second half, Rutgers (12­10, 4-4) employed a high-PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Freshman point guard Skylar Diggins drives for a layup during an 84-59 Notre Dame win over see RUTGERS/page 20 Providence on Jan. 27. The Irish defeated Rutgers 75-63 on the road Monday. 

ND TRACK & FIELD 
Schultz leads ND sprinters 
By KAITLYN MURPHY 
Sports Writer 
Senior sprinter Joanna Schultz has been nothing short of dominant during the first few weeks of the indoor track sea­son, setting an NCAA provisional qualifying mark on Jan. 23 at the Notre Dame Invitational with a time of 53.82 seconds in the 400-meters. 
Schultz is familiar with suc­cess, as she began setting records in high school and has been impossible to stop since arriving at Notre Dame. Last season, Schultz posted the team’s top times in both the 200 and 400 races. 
She also won the Big East title in the 400 hurdles with a time of 
53.12 seconds. Last year, Schultz narrowly missed a bid to the NCAA Championships for the outdoor season after finish-
see SCHULTZ/page 21 
HOCKEY 
Battered Irish hit the road 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish have spent the last two months trying to stay afloat in the CCHA. Despite clawing their way into a tie for fourth over the weekend, the waters ahead look choppy. 
Notre Dame begins a five-game road trip this weekend, the longest stretch of the season away from the Joyce Center. The Irish (12-11-7, 8-8-6-2 CCHA) are clinging to a tenuous fourth-place tie in the confer­ence and will have to hold their ground despite a depleted ros­ter. 
A half-dozen skaters were list­ed on the injury report for Notre Dame’s weekend series against 
see CCHA/page 22 

FENCING 

Squads stay perfect at Northwestern duals 
By KEVIN BALDWIN 
Sports Writer 

Continuing a tradition of excellence with an undefeat­ed performance at the Northwestern Duals this past weekend, the Irish men’s and women’s fencing teams remain perfect through the 2010 intercollegiate season. 
Both squads, ranked No. 2 nationally, trumped Duke, Princeton and No. 3 regional threat Ohio State. 
Competition started off well, especially with the men’s foil, in which juniors Zach Schirtz and Grant Hodges turned in perfect performances Saturday. 
Sophomore Reggie Bentley followed up their perform­ances with a 6-0 record Sunday to secure a close win over the Buckeyes. 
The men’s saber squad has shown improvement all year, and sophomore Anthony Schlehuber and junior Avery Zuck led the pack with unde­feated performances Sunday including a collective 9-0 vic­tory against Cleveland State. 
The women’s foil has also showed their ability to shift their performance into the next gear over the last week with sophomore Christina LaBarge boasting a perfect 8-0 record in contributing to 
see FENCERS/page 21 





