the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Revisions made to regulations in duLac 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
News Writer 
The University’s student handbook, duLac, was revised this summer, with clauses clearly defining sexual consent and the Office of Residential Life and Housing’s (ORLH) sanctions added while a pro­posed section defining medical amnesty was not adopted. 
Other major changes includ­ed relaxing restrictions on where students can host tail­gates, clarifying the University’s policies on holding disciplinary records and mak­ing the formatting easier to read, said Nick Ruof, student government chief of staff. 
“They clarified a lot of things and made it more user-friend­ly,” he said. 
The revisions were made after a three-year review process, which began under former vice president for stu­dent affairs Fr. Mark Poorman, was finalized this summer under his successor, Fr. Tom Doyle. 
“Both men provided strong leadership to the entire team that worked on the three-year 


see DULAC/page 4 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 


Professors debate Goldman-Sachs 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

George Enderle, professor of International Business Ethics, debates during the John A. Berges 
Lecture Series Tuesday. 


By PAT VINETT 
News Writer 
Tuesday marked the first lecture in the John A. Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics run through the Mendoza College of Business. In “The Ethics of Goldman Sachs: A Debate,” a panel of professors dis ­cussed ethics in business. 
Mendoza College’s Jordan Auditorium was full, leaving 
only standing room, for George Enderle, professor of International Business Ethics, and Paul Schultz, professor of finance to lec­ture on one of the top global investment banking and securities firms in the world. 
To begin the informal debate, Enderle gave a PowerPoint presentation titled “Security and Exchange Commission vs. Goldman Sachs & Co. and Fabrice Tourre,” in which he claimed that Goldman Sachs misled investors. The case of Goldman Sachs was explained as being a faulty investment, titled Abacus 2007, Enderle said. 

Abacus 2007 was con ­structed by Paulson & Co. — a major hedge fund — who according to Enderle “had adverse economic interest.” 
In essence, the investors of Abacus 2007 did not know of Paulson & Co.’s influence, and thus received flawed information, he said. 
“Abacus was handpicked by a client who believed that the bonds would fail,” Enderle said. 
By default, this demon ­strated the perception that Goldman Sachs was guilty of being “blind to the ethical dimension,” Enderle said. 
Schultz discussed how Paulson & Co. approached Goldman Sachs to develop a Collateralized Debt Obligation that would antici­pate that “real estate prices would fall.” 
Paulson & Co., as a result, made $1 billion, while Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Industriebank (IKB), and the ACA management lost a great deal of money, Schultz said. 
According to him, SEC made a case of fraud against Goldman Sachs and the com­pany eventually settled with the SEC for $550 million. 
“The SEC action smells fishy,” Schultz said. 
Schultz then discussed how the SEC might have been those who were unethical 
see GOLDMAN/page 4 



University hosts activities night 

GRACE KENNESSEY/The Observer James Ware, left, a member of the Class of 2013 Council talks to an observer while Brett Rochelleau, right, gets t-shirts. 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 

Thousands of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s undergradu­ate students flooded the Joyce Center Tuesday at the annual Activities Night, sponsored by the Student Activities Office (SAO). 
Students visited the booths of over 270 campus clubs and organizations, along with a variety of local groups and agencies, Mary Kate Havlik, Student Programs Coordinator, said. 
“We had about 4,100 total attendees, which is great for our groups,” Havlick said. 
Freshman Will Cronin said he thought Activities Night was a great way for first-year stu­dents to get involved in the Notre Dame community and see what opportunities are available to them. 
“As a business major, I know I’d definitely like to get started with the Student International Business Council (SIBC),” he said. “I’m excited to see all of the other possibilities that exist for involvement on campus.” 
Cronin said he was also hop­ing to become an active mem­ber of the College Republicans. 
College Democrats co-presi­dent Eileen Flanagan said her club is expecting a large increase in membership this year. 
“We see a big surge during election years, which will be especially important as we 
see ACTIVITIES/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Council of Representatives discuss outreach program page 3 Football releases depth chart page 16  Football now and then page 8  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesday, September 1, 2010 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 djacobs1@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Mike Gotimer Alicia Smith Allan Joseph Caitlyn Kalscheur Scene Graphics Jordan Gamble Blair Chemidlin Viewpoint Photo Patricia Fernandez Coleman Collins 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE H GHL GHT OF YOUR SUMMER? 








Josh Whelan  Rob Gialessas  Joe Paggi  Chase Minarik  Megan Malley  Alexa Wilson  
freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  sophomore  sophomore  
Duncan  Fisher  Fisher  Fisher  Lyons  Lyons  
“Going to Costa  “Driving to  “Coming to a  “I had a  “I went to  “Visiting lake  
Rica.”  Cedar Point  wedding at  bowl cut.”  Italy.”  homes.”  
with my best  Notre Dame.”  
friends.”  


GRACE KENNESSEY/The Observer Fireman Bishop takes a break during the Fire Safety Awareness Demonstration Tuesday on South Quad. Free pizza and prizes were given out during program. 



OFFBEAT 
Six men arrested after gunfire at baptism party 
FORT SMITH, Ark. — Police said a baptism party where some uninvited guests arrived turned into a brawl that resulted in gunfire. Police were dis­patched to the Progressive Men’s Club at 2 a.m. Saturday after a caller reported gunfire. Witness Amy Manjarrez told Fort Smith television station KHBS that her uncle was pistol whipped and that others, including her father and a disk jockey, were beaten. 
Police said one person fired a gun in the air and then into the crowd, though no one was wounded. 
Investigators said six 


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
The Snite Museum of Art is displaying an exhibit titled “Parallel Currents: Highlighs of the Ricardo Pau-Llosa Collection of Latin American Art” today from 10 a.m. until 4 
p.m. in the O’Shaughnessy Galleries I and II. 
The Center for Spirituality, Center for Women’s Interculteral Leadership, and Career Crossings are holding a “Spes Unica West Wing Open House” from 3:00 p.m. to 5:00 
p.m. tonight at Saint Mary’s College in Spes Unica Hall. 
The Department of Physics will be holding a colloquium, “Discovering or ruling out an electric dipole moment of the electron a factor of 100 smaller than the present limit”, featur­ing Dr. Harvey Gould of the Lawrence Berkely National Laboratory today in 118 Nieuwland Life Sciences Building from 4:00 p.m. to 5:30 
p.m. today. Refreshments will be served at 3:30 p.m. in Nieuwland 202. 
Saint Mary’s College will be holding an Activities Night from 
6:00 p.m. until 9:00 p.m. in the Student Center. All students are welcome to attend. 
RecSports is holding “Dance Class Kick-Off”, an information session featuring introductions to every dance class offered through RecSports, tonight in Activity Room 2 at Rolfs SportsRec Center from 6:30 

p.m. to 8:00 p.m. 
Student Union Board is pre­senting “Movie on the Quad: Toy Story” tonight from 9:00 p.m. until 11:00 p.m. on North Quad. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 


Saturday Sunday 

juveniles were arrested. Their names weren’t released because of their ages. One youth was charged with aggravated assault. Other charges include curfew violations, marijuana possession and carrying a weapon. 
Authorities catch elusive Facebook famous goat 
MEXICO, Mo. — A wan­dering Missouri goat whose exploits have been chroni­cled on a popular Facebook page has been captured. KXEO reported that a man named Mervin Beechy noticed the goat Tuesday afternoon while he was driving around the eastern Missouri town of Mexico. 
Beechy fetched his trailer and horse and returned to the area. He told KXEO that he only had to chase the goat on horseback for about a quarter-mile before lassoing him. 
The goat had been elud­ing capture since Aug. 21. 
Animal control officers had been calling him Billy Goat Gruff. 
The Facebook fan page that someone started for the goat has more than 8,000 followers. A post Tuesday afternoon, written from the goat’s perspective, says he’s been kept out of traffic until he can “bust back out” or “figure out what’s next.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


Today Tonight Thursday Friday 




CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Wednesday, September 1, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


Group discusses new beNDoutreachprogram 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) said its new community outreach pro­gram, beND, is designed to ease tensions with residents and law enforcement while improving relations with the community overall. 
“We need to take ownership of community relations and improving them on behalf of the students,” student body president Catherine Soler said. “Be a good neighbor, be engaged in the community.” 
Soler said it is crucial to avoid scare tactics and to rely on education and open dia­logue to deal appropriately with the community. 
“It’s about making students aware of what’s going on, how they can be safe, how they can be respectful, and hopefully that’ll pay off with the commu­nity,” she said. “We don’t want to scare people from going off campus, especially since there’s been such an effort to get students off campus and into the community.” 
Possible solutions for easing the tensions were discussed, including student government taking a more active role in communication between the University and law enforce­ment, as well as gathering offi­cial reports of police inci­dences, to ensure students are being treated fairly. 
“It’s not that we’re opposed to doing it in the long run, we just want to make sure we’re going about it in the right way,” student body vice presi­dent Andrew Bell said. “That’s something we’re working on, collecting information in a for­mal way.” 
Also on the agenda was the response to the administra­tion’s Rent-a-Text program. New to Notre Dame this year, the numbers are already indi­cating the program’s success. 
“Rent-a-Text is going really well. We have almost 35 per­cent of the titles rentable, which is the eighth-highest in the nation,” Soler said. 
Nick Ruof, chief of staff, then briefed the council on the results of last year’s reform of duLac. 
“If you get a verbal or writ­ten warning from ResLife, it’s not reported, but anything above that does,” Ruof said. “They also did a lot of work with sexual assault and con­sent.” 
“The Wall,” a newly-estab­lished location in LaFortune for student clubs to advertise upcoming events, was also a topic of discussion. The project was led by Brandon Vo, direc­tor of communications, who will serve as contact for stu­dent groups looking to adver­tise. 
“We really want to encour­age everyone to tell their groups they can submit their events,” Soler said. 
Also discussed were upcom­ing events including the Dillon Pep Rally and StuGov 101. 
“They have some improve­ments,” Bell said. “The stage will be taller. Again, there will be a section saved for students. They have a top of the line speaker system. The entire football team will be there. We encourage everyone to go.” 

Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 






G.I.magazinerecognizesSMC 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s College was, for the first time, included among a list of 1,220 Military Friendly schools gathered by the G.I. Jobs Magazine, according to a national press release. 
The list includes the top 15 percent of public and private colleges, universities, voca­tional and trade schools that “are doing the most to embrace America’s veterans as students.” 
“This list is especially impor­tant now because the Post­9/11 GI Bill has given veterans virtually unlimited financial means to go to school,” Rich McCormack, G.I. Jobs publish­er, said in the release. “Veterans can now enroll in any school, provided they’re academically qualified. So schools are clamoring for them like never before. Veterans need a trusted friend to help them decide where to get educated. The Military Friendly Schools list is that trusted friend.” 
The list is the culmination of research that began last April and included G.I. Jobs polling more than 7,000 schools across the nation. The criteria was developed in cooperation with an Academic Advisory Board whose members include educators from schools such as Carnegie Mellon University, Duquesne University, Colorado State University, Dallas County Community College and Embry Riddle. 
Members also include Keith Wilson, the director of educa­tion service for the Department of Veterans Affairs; Michele Spires, the American Council on Education’s assistant director of military programs; Janet Swandol, associate director for the College Level Examination Program (CLEP); and Derek Blumke, president courses; and the areas of sup-of Student Veterans of port for veterans such as full-America. time veteran counselors, on­

“The Military Friendly campus childcare, advisors on Schools list is the gold stan-staff to help with career place­dard in letting veterans know ment and veterans’ clubs. which schools will offer them Last year, Saint Mary’s the greatest opportunity, flexi-received a $14,999 grant from bility and overall experience,” Operation Diploma — a pro-Blumke said. gram designed by Purdue 
One crucial criterion is University’s Military Research financial aid Institution — programs in order to 
“The Military 
offered by the develop pro-school to veter-Friendly Schools list grams and ans. For the services to 
is the gold standard
second consecu-upport student 
in letting veterans
tive year, Saint service mem­Mary’s is partic-know which schools bers and veter­ipating in the ans. 
will offer them the 
Yellow Ribbon The money 
greatest opportunity, 
Program that has been used was created flexibility and overall to train stu­with the pas-experience” dent affairs sage of the staff to address Post-9/11 GI the unique 
Derek Blumke 
Bill. issues veterans 
The Program Student Veterans face and devel­provides stu-of America op a peer sup-dents with up to port network. 
president 

$20,000 toward tuition and fees in addition to the benefits they receive as part of the Post­9/11 GI Bill. 
Unlike last year’s limit of five students, Saint Mary’s now accepts an unlimited number of eligible students. 
The G.I. Jobs profile of Saint Mary’s College also lists the schools offering of scholar­ships and tuition discounts for military dependents and the ability of military students called to active service to return without penalty under the financial benefits Saint Mary’s offers. 
In deciding on the top 15 percent of military friendly schools, the board took into account more than the finan­cial aid programs offered to veterans. Other considerations were the schools’ accredita­tions; credit offered for mili­tary service; flexibility given in regards to evening, weekend, online and distance learning A spot on the 
top Military Friendly School list will help promote Saint Mary’s to veter­an students and military dependents, which can benefit both women veterans and cur­rent Saint Mary’s students. 
“We believe that women vet­erans deserve a great educa­tional experience and that Saint Mary’s, with its small classes and engaged faculty, offers that experience,” said Karen Johnson, vice president for student affairs. “In addi­tion, as our other students are interacting with women vets on campus, they will benefit from the great life lessons vet­erans have and from the lead­ership skills vets bring to the table.” 
The list will be available in print in the annual Guide to Military Friendly Schools at the end of September. 

Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 1, 2010 
Rouf said he and other stu-the clear goals of the new poli-tion and the impact the mis-mendations concerning a dent government administra-cy, both as a way to educate conduct had on the community clause regarding disciplinary 


duLac 

tors were excited about some the campus community and as a whole, as well as on those records. continued from page 1 of the changes, specifically prevent sexual assault as well directly involved in the inci-However, Rouf said the cur-
those defining what constitutes as address these incidents dent, when making decisions rent policy punished students project,” said Brian Coughlin, sexual assault and defining when they happen.” about individual situations.” with minor violations by assistant vice president for University sanctions. While Rouf was happy with However, Rouf said he would exposing them to scrutiny from student affairs. “Having so “They finally listed out sanc-some of the changes, he said like to see a section in duLac potential employers and grad-many campus stakeholders tions — what the Office of many students expressed con-that clearly defines medical uate schools. involved and the fact that it Residential cern that no clause amnesty, rather than the vague “It’s a big concern with kids was a team approach through-Life can do to strictly stated that language currently seen in the going to medical school and out the three-year project somebody, ” “They fnally listed students would handbook. stuff like that because if they made implementing changes he said. receive amnesty “Where is it written?” he get in trouble, the University 
out sanctions — what

easier.” C o u g h l i n from any sanctions said. “They didn’t add any has to notify the medical 
the Offce of

The process involved input said defining for helping a friend medical amnesty clause.” school they’re applying to,” he from the Committee for Sexual s e x u a l Residential Life can who in danger. A While a clause making refer-said. “It’s so cutthroat that any Assault Prevention (CSAP), the assault was section on medical ence to the University’s policies little thing a medical school 
do to somebody.” 

Campus Life Council (CLC), one of the amnesty was one concerning holding discipli-can find to not accept you, student government and rec-clear goals of of the nine recom-nary records was added, it they’ll do it.” tors. this round of Nick Rouf mendations made only states that the University Rouf said he would like to 
“This revision is the result of revisions. Student Government by CLC. will maintain most disciplinary “push this topic for a bigger an unparalleled level of collab-“This sub-chief of staff “If somebody records for seven years and discussion.” oration between so many at committee’s gets in trouble only not create a disciplinary The handbook is routinely the University,” Coughlin said. recommenda-because they’re record when a student is updated with minor changes “Over the three-year process, tions were helping someone issued a verbal or written every year and undergoes a many students, faculty and based on input from students, out or they call the police, can warning. major revision process every administrators had a hand in faculty and administrators as that be taken into considera-“This policy is very much in five to eight years as part of the work.” well as bench-marking with tion?” he said. line with what many other col-standard University procedure, 
Many of the changes adopted other colleges and universi-Coughlin said ORLH always leges and universities do in Coughlin said. were part of nine recommen-ties,” he said. “Having clearer has and will continue to “take terms of student disciplinary dations made by the CLC last definitions about what consti-into consideration the circum-records,” Coughlin said. Contact Joseph McMahon at year. tutes sexual assault was one of stances surrounding a viola-The CLC made no recom-jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

University creates ‘iPad class’ 
Special to The Observer 
“This has become known as the iPad class,” Corey Angst, assistant professor of manage­ment at the University of Notre Dame, told his students on their first day of class Aug. 24. “It’s actually not…it’s ‘Project Management.’” 
A member of Notre Dame’s ePublishing Working Group, Angst is debuting the University’s first and only class taught using Apple’s new wire­less tablet computer to replace traditional textbooks. The course is part of a unique, year-long Notre Dame study of eReaders, and Angst is conducting the first phase using iPads, which just went on sale to the public in April. 
“One unique thing we are doing is conducting research on the iPad,” Angst said. “We want to know whether students feel the iPads are useful and how they plan to use them. I want them to tell me, ‘I found this great app that does such and such. I want this to be organic … We have an online Wiki discus­sion group where students can share their ideas.” 
The working group partici­pants are from a broad array of colleges and departments, including the Mendoza College of Business, Notre Dame Law School, College of Arts and Letters, First Year of Studies, Hesburgh Libraries, Office of Information Technologies, Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, Office of Sustainability, Notre Dame Press and Office of Institutional Equity. 
Members are evaluating the creation, distribution, consump­tion and usefulness of electronic course materials in an academic setting by examining the useful­ness of the iPad as an eReader, with the broader goal of design­ing an “ePublishing ecosystem” that serves faculty, students and staff by making the creation, dis­tribution, sharing, reading and annotation of eMaterials simple and inexpensive. 
“eReaders are quickly being adopted for reading mass mar­ket literature, but also align well with the desire of higher educa­tion faculty and students to pro­mote sustainability by reducing paper use,” said Paul Turner, manager of Academic Technologies in Notre Dame’s Office of Information Technologies. “But there are a wide range of issues we want to understand in order to decide when and where mobile wireless devices like the iPad can best replace textbooks and other paper-based course materials. Working with research faculty such as Professor Angst gives us the opportunity to study how students in multiple disciplines adopt and adapt to using eReaders.” 
“The world of higher educa­tion today demands seamless touch points connecting teach­ing, learning, research, engage­ment, service and personal activities,” said Ron Kraemer, Notre Dame’s vice president of information technology and chief information officer. “Using the iPad in this course for both research and education will help us explore how we might enhance the education experi­ence to better prepare our stu­dents as global citizens.” 
Activities Night, president and senior Elizabeth 


Activities 
Dieckman said. 

continued from page 1 “We have a record number of kids signed up this year 
campaign for Congressman Joe Donnelly’s reelection in November,” she said. 
Flanagan said the 2009-10 Club of the Year will also con­tinue its service events with the Center for the Homeless. 
“I think many new students are surprised to see how large our club is because Notre Dame is often stereo­typed as being 
“Ultimately, we’re 
so conserva-volunteer in tive,” she said. hoping to attract all the local com­“Ultimately, munity. 
interested 
we’re hoping to “I visited 
freshman and get our 
attract all inter-the booths for 
ested freshmen message out there.” Student Union and get our Board (SUB), message out Habitat for 
Eileen Flanagan 
there.” Humanity and 
co-president 
Teamwork for even the Tomorrow, a College Democrats Hawaii Club,” 
community out­reach program designed to improve the literacy and teamwork skills of underpriv­ileged children in South Bend, also sees a huge mem­bership boost because of and this our most important night to make connections and recruit tutors for them,” she said. 
Dieckman said about 30 students signed up to volun­teer as tutors this year. 
Sophomore Kat Chew said she was looking for a way to get more directly involved in student life, as well as an opportunity to 
she said. “I love being able to come 
out and see so many different options.” 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 


Goldman 
continued from page 1 
throughout the process. 
“After losses occur, there is a lot of scapegoating that goes on,” Schultz said at the close of his segment. 
After the debate compo ­nent, students were able to ask questions. In response to a question on the level of responsibility Goldman-Sachs has to its investors, Schultz said, “they should offer dis­closure and be honest with their investors.” 

Contact Pat Vinett at pvinett@nd.edu 




Wednesday, September 1, 2010 The Observer . NEWS page 5 


ND recognized for ‘small graduation gaps’ 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame is ranked 13th among research uni­versities and in the top 35 overall for graduating Hispanic students, according to “Big Gaps, Small Gaps: Some Colleges and Universities Outpace Others in 
ing of the gap in graduation rates. “As the report points out, ‘reli­gious institutions with a commit­ment to social justice’ were most likely to have small graduation gaps,” Brown-Gort said. “And Notre Dame recognizes that this mission can only be fulfilled if we focus on increas­ing the educa-

G r a d u a t i n g H i s p a n i c Students,” recent­ly released by the Education Trust.  “As the report points out, ‘religious institutions with a commitment to social  tional opportuni­ties for the grow­ing number of young Latinos.” In addition,  
Notre Dame was identified as having only a 2 percent gap in  justice’ were most likely to have small graduation gaps.”  Notre Dame’s six-year graduation rate for African-Americans is  
graduation rates  approximately 91  
between white and Hispanic stu­dents and the third-highest six- Allert Brown-Gort Institute for Latino Studies  percent, a figure that is higher than every insti­tution listed in  
year graduation  associate director  the report, except  

rate (94.3 per­cent) for Hispanic students, bettered only by Duke and Stanford Universities. 
“This is an important recogni­tion of the increasing emphasis that the University of Notre Dame has placed on the importance of Latinos to the future of our coun­try,” said Allert Brown-Gort, asso­ciate director of Notre Dame’s Institute for Latino Studies. “Notre Dame is an institution at which the Latino presence has been steadily rising over the past decade, and one in which we expect to see an inexorable clos-Rice University, 
meaning an African-American student has a higher probability of achieving a bachelor’s degree at Notre Dame than at almost any other universi­ty in the country. 
The Education Trust promotes high academic achievement for all students at all levels. It strives to close the gaps in opportunity and achievement that consign young people — especially those from low-income families or who are black, Latino or American Indian — to lives on the margins of the American mainstream. 




Zipcars come to University 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame is launching a new part­nership with Zipcar Inc., pro­viding the campus with access to the world’s leading car-sharing service. The option of renting a high-efficiency, low-cost and convenient Zipcar encourages students on cam­puses across the country to leave their cars at home dur­ing the school year. 
Zipcars are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week to all students, faculty and staff members, ages 18 and older. Gas, 180 miles per day, insurance, reserved park­ing spots and roadside assis­tance are included in the hourly and daily Zipcar rates. Cars can be reserved for as short as an hour or for up to four days. Rates on all Notre Dame vehicles start as low as $8 per hour and $66 per day (24 hours). 
The annual membership fee for anyone affiliated with Notre Dame is $35 and appli­cants receive $35 worth of free driving credit applied toward their first month of driving. The annual member­ship fee is waived for depart­ment accounts and residence hall staff. Notre Dame stu­dents, faculty and staff can join at zipcar.com/notredame. 
“Students wanted a car-sharing service that helps to eliminate the need for them to bring their own cars to cam-pus,” said Erin Hafner, pro­grams manager for the Office of Sustainability. “Zipcar pro­vides not only students, but the entire Notre Dame com­munity, with a greater free­dom to run errands, attend meetings, or get away for the weekend, without the hassle of owning a car.” 


All four cars are convenient­ly located in the old Juniper Road parking lot between the B16 and D2 lots. Zipcar also offers a fun and functional iPhone app that will honk the horn to locate a Zipcar and unlock the doors for members. 
“We’ve seen countless uni­versities across North America and the U.K. benefit from our car sharing service. In addi­tion to helping students and their parents save money by not having a car on campus, Zipcar is also helping Notre Dame to reduce its carbon footprint,” said Matthew Malloy, vice president of global university operations at Zipcar. “On average each vehi­cle in our car-sharing service takes 15 to 20 privately owned vehicles off the road.” 
Zipcar has established part­nerships with more than 200 universities, including Indiana University, Yale, University of Virginia and Georgetown. Zipcar utilizes a network of local vendors to service and clean its fleet. 


Doctor found dead in chimney 
Woman pursues ‘on again, off again’ boyfriend to his home 


Associated Press 
BAKERSFIELD, Calif. — A doctor involved in an “on ­again, off-again” relationship apparently tried to force her way into her boyfriend’s home by sliding down the chimney, police said Tuesday. Her decomposing body was found there three days later. 
Dr. Jacquelyn Kotarac, 49, first tried to get into the house with a shovel, then climbed a ladder to the roof last Wednesday night, removed the chimney cap and slid feet first down the flue, Bakersfield police Sgt. Mary DeGeare said. 
While she was trying to break in, the man she was pursuing escaped unnoticed from another exit “to avoid a confrontation,” authorities said. 
DeGeare said the two were in an “on-again, off-again” relationship. 
The man’s identity was not revealed by police, but the man who resides in the home is William Moodie, 58. 
“She made an unbelievable error in judgment and nobody understands why, and unfor­tunately she’s passed away,” Moodie told The Associated Press. “She had her issues — she had her demons — but I never lost my respect for her.” 
Reached by telephone, Moodie did not dispute the police’s characterization of his relationship with Kotarac. He would not comment on the circumstances that led to her death, saying it was more important to focus on the good she did in life. 

Moodie, who runs an engi­neering consulting firm, said Kotarac was a superb internist who often provided service and medication free of charge to her patients. 
Kotarac apparently died in the chimney, but her body was not discovered until a house-sitter noticed a stench and fluids coming from the fire­place Saturday, according to a police statement. The house-sitter and her son investigated with a flashlight and found Kotarac dead, wedged about two feet above the top of the interior fireplace opening. 
Firefighters spent five hours late Saturday dismantling the chimney and flue from outside the home to extract Kotarac’s body, DeGeare said. 
Officials said Kotarac’s office staff reported her miss­ing two days prior when she failed to show for work. Her car and belongings remained near the man’s house. 
A cause of death has not been determined, and an autopsy was scheduled for Tuesday. Foul play is not sus­pected, though investigators have been looking into the incident as suspicious. 


Calif. officials seek to resume executions 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO — Death row inmate Albert Greenwood Brown on Tuesday morning was handed a “death war­rant” — the first such docu­ment delivered in more than five years — informing him his execution has been sched­uled for Sept. 29. 
Around the same time, Marin County Superior Court Judge Verna Adams was indefinitely extending the ban on executions in the state, saying “unless and until” she says otherwise, the prohibi­tion remains in effect. 
Prison officials said they will respect the judge’s order if it is still in effect Sept. 29, but said they are forging ahead “operationally” as if the exe­cution will occur as schedule. 
New lethal injection proce­dures prison officials said went into effect Sunday are at the center of a long-simmer­ing debate that came to a head Tuesday over whether to resume executions in California, which have been on hold since early 2006. 
Prosecutors said new proce­dures adopted because of a death row inmate’s lawsuit allow for the resumption of executions without the judge’s approval. Christine Gasparac, a spokeswoman for Attorney General Jerry Brown, said the office will appeal Adams’ order. 
California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation spokeswoman Terry Thornton said Albert Brown was served with his “death warrant” at 11 a.m. Tuesday for the Riverside County rape and murder of a 15-year-old girl abducted on her way home from school in 1980. 
Thornton said prison offi­cials continue to prepare for Albert Brown’s execution despite the judge’s order. 
Deputy Attorney General Michael Quinn said Tuesday officials will soon seek to schedule the executions of five other inmates, including Michael Morales of Stockton. Morales was within hours of receiving a lethal injection for the rape and murder of a 17­year-old girl when U.S. District Court Judge Jeremy Fogel in 2006 halted his exe­cution. Fogel ordered prison officials to revamp the state’s lethal injection procedures in response to Morales’ legal challenge alleging cruel and unusual punishment. 
Since then, officials have constructed a new death chamber at San Quentin Prison and rewrote the execu­tion procedures in 2007. Morales and another death row inmate, Mitchell Sims of Los Angeles, filed a separate lawsuit in Marin County in 2007 alleging the new proce­dures should be subjected to public comment and the state’s time-consuming regu­latory adopting process. A judge agreed and barred exe­cutions until the state proper­ly adopted the new lethal injection regulations. 
On Sunday, prison officials said those new regulations took effect. 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 

page 6 Wednesday, September 1, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

True winner 
My younger brothers and I are the products of a mixed marriage. 
It’s a constant struggle and a never-ending battle between my par­ents, always fighting over whose side is better. All of my friends from home are on my mom’s side of the issue, but my brothers and I are on my dad’s side. Sometimes, I just wish all the fight­ing in my house would stop. Molly Sammon 

Each year, the same fight esca-

A ssistant 
lates deeper and 

Sports Editor 
deeper, my mom getting more frus­trated at my dad as this fated weekend draws nearer. Thankfully, with Saturday quickly approaching, a true winner will be decided and my household will be a pleasant place again. 
It amazes me that two people with two completely different back­grounds could form a successful marriage. They just have to ignore each other’s taunts for one day a year. 
When my parents come to campus on Saturday, my dad will be wearing “The Shirt,” singing the fight song after every Irish touchdown, shaking down the thunder from the sky, and swaying to the Alma Mater when it’s all said and done. My dad graduated from Notre Dame. 
His wife — a woman I find particu­larly difficult to call my mother dur­ing this upcoming weekend, though she is an incredible woman on every other day of my life — will stand next to him at the game. She’ll be in black and gold, trying to make friends with all the other outcasts at Notre Dame Stadium, pumping her fist up and down to toot her Boilermaker horn, moving to the beat of the “world’s largest drum,” and making ridiculous train noises when (or if?) Purdue scores this weekend. My mom gradu­ated from Purdue. 
Dealing with my mom on this week­end is only part of the strife I associ­ate with the Purdue game. So many people from my high school graduate and continue on to Purdue, people have nicknamed it “Purdue Central.” At graduation, instead of asking what school you’ll be going to, rather peo­ple ask “What will you be majoring in down in West LaFayette?” If we lose, I have a large number of people to avoid for the next year. 
In my circle of family and friends, this game means bragging rights for an entire year. It’s a chance to have the upper-hand in every argument for twelve full months. As long as we beat Purdue, in my eyes, it has been a successful season. I’m hesitant to say that I don’t care if we lose every single game for the remainder of this year, surely I do feel the heartbreak associated with losing to anyone. But the heartbreak from losing to Purdue is the kind that stings for a long, long time. 
Beating Purdue in the final seconds last year was one of my favorite moments in all of the games I’ve been to. It’d be great to feel that again this year. 
If we don’t, I’ll be the girl that’s walking around campus with the Purdue shirt on since I lost a bet with my best friend from high school. Please don’t mock me. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Molly Sammo at msammon@nd.edu 

Scientific notation 
At the lab I was working at this sum­mer, I got a chance to talk to a visiting professor of neuroscience from MIT, and her husband, a mathematician also from MIT. I talked to them about the major directions 
of science in the  Edward A.  
next 50 years.  Larkin  
They eventually  

asked what I was studying at Notre Dame, and I mentioned that my second major was Classics. Usually, among sci­entists, this declaration is met with a bit of confusion. First, they wonder what “Classics” actually entails, and second, they ask why exactly I am studying it. Thus, it was surprising that both of them immediately commented that a liberal arts background was the right way to approach science. 
While I didn’t get a chance to follow up on this comment, I found myself thinking about it frequently over the next months. With science today becom­ing increasingly specialized, with all sorts of abstrusely named fields popping up (systems neruoscience, biologically inspired engineering, and synthetic biol­ogy are only a few), it is natural to question whether an education rooted in the liberal arts has anything to offer or contribute to science these days, or vice versa. 
To be sure, I find both endeavors to be incredibly important in their own right. Scientific and technological revolutions are both for advancing humanity and increasing quality of life. The liberal arts are essential for cultural richness and a reflection upon the timeless ele­ments of the human condition. As an example of the need for both in the modern world, Atul Gawande (a doctor) argues in his novel, “Better,” that medi­cine could be vastly improved not by increased basic scientific research, but more effective public health policy and hospital protocols. 



EDITORIAL CARTOON 
However, can the liberal arts actually enrich basic science, and vice versa? Can a thorough education in ancient culture or Roman myth lead to a more effective career in science? Similarly, can understanding biochemistry lead to a successful career in non science-ori­ented jobs? My answer is yes. 
The reason is both science and the liberal arts have a general tendency to correct the faults of the other. The liber­al arts instill creativity, critical reading capabilities, and an ability to ask nuanced questions. These are necessary skills for a scientist, and such skills are not always successfully instilled by a scientific education. 
Creativity in science often translates to the ability to ask the right questions, or frame issues in a new light. Science today, unlike 30 years ago, is not tech­nique-limited. The sheer quantity of sophisticated tests and manipulations available make it such that oftentimes, the asking of the question is the most important part of the process. The answers can usually be obtained. 
A background in the liberal arts is beneficial first in that it avoids inculca­tion with the scientific models of the time. Great discoveries often come about because current models are radi­cally misguided. Indoctrination in such models, as Einstein observed, does not foster free thinking. In many great sci­entific advances, the initial creativity to approach a problem from an entirely different direction is integral to the solution. Such creativity is readily apparent in the theories of Einstein and Darwin, as well as a recent (although highly controversial) theory of physics, string theory. Edward Witten, the most prominent string theorist (and some argue, the greatest physicist) alive, majored in history at Brandeis University as an undergraduate and briefly went to graduate school for Economics. 

Another important trend in modern science, given the explosion of biomed­ical knowledge, is the ability to read selectively and critically. A liberal arts background (as any PLS major can cer­tainly explain) cultivates such an ability. Furthermore, in our world of massive data generation, deducing the ramifica­tions and asking new questions based on the results of previous experimenta­tion is of paramount importance. 
The situation is not a one-way street. Science, with its insistence on rigor and inherent distrust of unproven, untestable assertions, can offer struc­ture to many fields in the liberal arts. One of the newest members of the Classics faculty at Notre Dame, David Hernandez, graduated from the University of California, Berkeley, with a degree in nuclear physics. 
Both modern science and the liberal arts have their strengths and weakness­es. Most often, true revolutions in any field come from a complete restructur­ing of thought, an open defiance of pre­viously accepted models. A background in another field hardwires in one’s brain a completely different method of thought, a consideration of aspects that easily may be ignored by those continu­ously immersed in the same environ­ment The application of new perspec­tives to old problems can open up new worlds of thought — this is the funda­mental reason why spending four years of studying Homer and Virgil could quite possibly provide a solid frame­work for a scientific career. 
Edward A. Larkin is a senior with a double major in Biological Science and Classical Civilization. He can be reached at elarkin1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Every artist was first anamateur.” 
Ralph Waldo Emerson 
U.S. philosopher 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“To be without some of the thingsyou want is an indispensable partof happiness.” 
Bertrand Russell British philosopher 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 

Wednesday, September 1, 2010 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Anger at SB Police is hypocritical 
To Joe Deter, and everyone else outraged by the underage drinking busts happening around town: 
A lot of ink has been spilled expressing rage over the South Bend police spending all their time busting underage drinkers instead of stopping armed robberies, deal­ing with more serious crime, etc. The num­ber of drinking arrests is up, and students are scared that visiting any off-campus party might lead to a visit downtown. 
But consider this: if all the effort put forth to express your disgust with the police was instead spent encouraging underage students not to drink, the police would not have to waste their time on less­er crimes. If the lesser crime was not tak­ing place, they would not have to deal with it in the first place. If they stumble upon an out-of-control party (as they did this past weekend), they have a moral responsibility to investigate and handle the situation in accord with the law. And it is good that they do: the last thing you want is for offi­cers to start playing judge and deciding what crimes to simply ignore. 
For some reason, however, the students who have expressed their anger over such actions see no moral responsibility to pre­vent these situations from happening in the first place. It seems pretty clear that if there was no underage drinking (which is against the law, in case you forgot), there would be no underage drinking busts, and the cops would have that much more time to serve and protect against more serious crimes. Doing nothing to prevent underage drinking (or outright encouraging it), and then being angry over the fact that the police must then handle it is hypocrisy of the highest order. 
Ryan Kreager 
graduate student off-campus Aug. 31 



Actions speak louder than words 
It is no secret that police officers are not always honest; if they were there wouldn’t be laws against entrapment or organiza­tions like the IAB. Police officers are trained to use deceptive tactics to achieve probable cause when they otherwise would-n’t have it. I am not calling all police offi­cers liars, but it is important to understand that they are not always trying to be your friend. When excise police determined raiding house parties was now in their jurisdiction, my parents had me sit down with our family attorneys to give me a crash course on how to interact with the police if I ever found myself in any type of legal situation. While I can say I have yet to use their advice, I am concerned that day is coming. I applaud the residents of Turtle Creek, who refused the officers entry with­out a warrant; however, as we have seen, the situation quickly escalated out of con­trol. At that point, the police were legally able to enter the house. 
It’s one thing for the University to say it’s addressing the issue; it’s another for them to actually implement something tangible. The Senior Class Council sent an e-mail warning students of problems with police and offered suggestions like posting signs that say “No one under 21 may drink.” However, I believe the University can and should go further. We have one of the best law schools in the country; why not organ­ize a forum where we can have actual lawyers inform students of their rights? I am not suggesting this be a forum of how to beat a drinking ticket, but it is especially important for off campus students who are 21 to be informed of how to interact with police forces off-campus, and all other stu­dents deserve to be informed of and under­stand their rights. Informing students of when they must obey an officer’s requests and when they may simply say, “I have to be going,” would help to prevent problems like the assault of an officer, and lead to better overall cooperation between students and police. 
Johnny Kerrigan 
senior off campus Aug. 31 



Despicable Scene 
Sadly, the Scene selection disappointed me early this year in calling the wonderful movie, “Despicable Me” an “average children’s comedy that was neither terrible nor great.” 
“Despicable Me,” is funny and adorable. It is more geared towards children than 2009’s amazing “Up,” but is more mature than the “Ice Age” franchise or “Bolt.” In this sense, it perfect­ly straddled the children/adult divide that ani­mated movies must conquer. 
The 3-D effect was noticeable, despite the Scene section’s total inability to see it. However, the movie is good enough that it doesn’t have to rely on gimmicks like 3-D to be awesome. 
While the rest of the “Summer Movie Roundup” was close to a good opinion, everyone should go see “Despicable Me.” Don’t worry. It’s still in theaters. 

Amanda Johnson 
senior Aug. 31 




Quarter dog price increase doesn’t add up 
I am writing in response to the Aug. 31 article “‘Quarter dog’ prices rise at the Huddle?” (Sarah Felsenstein, Aug.31). I respect the business decision to increase quarter dog prices, but I believe that the price increase will do far more harm than good in the long term. I understand the price increase was made because the Huddle loses money on every dog sold. However, I think there are better solutions to consider. Let’s do some math. From the article, we know that last year 29,798 dogs were sold at a loss of eight cents each. That’s just under $2,400. The ORLH website tells us that space exists for over 6,200 students on campus. Let’s assume just 6,000 people have meal plans, including flex points (the NDFS website says mote than 99 percent do, which is more than 6100 people). Thus, by reducing each person’s flex points by 40 cents, the quarter dog losses are recouped. Note that this year, every student with flex points has $345 in points, whereas last year we had $325. Further, the article mentions that “no other major price changes have been made to Huddle Mart products this year.” No other food vendor has increased prices either, as far as I am aware. So we have $20 more to spend, but nothing specific to spend it on. I never use all my flex points anyway, so for me and many others it’s wasted. Why can’t Notre Dame boost housing fees by $1 to subsidize quarter dogs and regain last year’s losses? If the extra flex points are removed, then the net effect is lower housing fees. If that’s too complex, then leave flex points as they are and add the dollar anyway. I guarantee no one would notice. Besides, $2,400 is really not that much money, con­sidering Notre Dame’s huge endowment and all the money spent on new fences and pep rallies that few students like. It would not be too difficult to save this tradition, and if NDFS will not do so, then I have just one thing to say: “Help us, generous alumni. You’re our only hope!” 
Adam Alongi 
junior Aug. 31 



EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The Observer 



Scene

page 8 Wednesday, September 1, 2010 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 


Scene

Wednesday, September 1, 2010 page 9 

who call Jersey home? 

To answer that last question, find someone from New Jersey and ask him or her yourself. 
But as for the rest, I don’t know that these questions can be answered. What I can say, though, is that every Jersey-cen­tric show on television is very distinctly New Jersey — meaning that, with few exceptions, the shows are very much about being from New Jersey and the where they come from and proud of their home. In some ways, New Jersey and the New Jersey culture are main characters themselves. 
Compare “Jersey Couture” to some­thing like “Jersey Shore,” where the majority of the reality show’s stars aren’t even from New Jersey. They have, though, come to be associated with the state and the stereotypical party atmos­phere of a summer at the Jersey Shore. 
flavor comes more from the cake shop’s clients than it does from the bakery itself. But there it is, trumpeting New Jersey’s unique culture nonetheless. 
And “The Real Housewives of New Jersey” has increasingly become about defending a very “New Jersey” idea of protecting one’s name and one’s family. That’s not a distinctly New Jersey thing, but the characters on “Real Housewives” tend to blend their Italian close-knit fami­reportedly make $10,000 an episode and may be looking at $30,000 an episode for Season 3. 

Here’s hoping the next big thing is about kids from South Bend, Ind. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 1, 2010 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Beavers, Horned Frogs to kick off 2010 season 
Associated Press 
Nothing short of reaching another BCS game and winning it would satisfy TCU fans and players this year. If last season taught people anything it was to not underestimate the Horned Frogs. 
Sixth-ranked TCU opens the season with an early test as it takes on No. 24 Oregon State at Cowboys Stadium on Saturday night. 
The Horned Frogs, who began the 2009 season ranked 16th, went 12-0 before losing 17-10 to undefeated Boise State in the Fiesta Bowl. 
While TCU had hoped to face an opponent from an elite con­ference in its first BCS game, it ended up suffering its worst offensive game of the season, falling short of its goal of a BCS bowl victory. 
“All last season, we were like, ‘OK, we deserve to be in the BCS, we deserve to be there,’” receiv­er Curtis Clay said. “When we did get there, we didn’t show the nation that we did deserve to be there.” 
Eager for redemption, the Horned Frogs have a good chance to stay among the nation’s elite this year as they field yet another prolific offen­sive unit. The only departures from a team that averaged 456.7 yards and 38.3 points were All-Mountain West left tackle Marshall Newhouse and leading rusher Joseph Turner. However, the Horned Frogs’ signal caller returns for a fourth season as starter. 
Andy Dalton’s next victory will make him the winningest quar­terback in TCU history. He is already among the winningest active quarterbacks in the Football Bowl Subdivision with a 29-8 record. He threw for 2,756 yards, 23 touchdowns and eight interceptions last season. 
“I feel like we should be better this year,” Dalton said. “Obviously the bowl game didn’t go as well as we wanted, but that’s not what defined the sea­son. See everything we accom­plished.” 
There are bigger concerns on defense, where the Horned Frogs lost All-American end Jerry Hughes and linebacker Daryl Washington, who were both picked in the first two rounds of the NFL draft. Starting cornerbacks Rafael Priest and Nick Sanders graduated. 
However, TCU does return 24 of its 30 defensive letter winners including junior linebacker Tank Carder — whose 89 tackles last season trailed only Washington 
— and Wayne Daniels, who had 5 1/2 sacks and nine tackles for loss. 
Unlike last season, when TCU didn’t face a ranked opponent until visiting then-No. 16 BYU on Oct. 24, the Horned Frogs are facing a tough test right out of the gate in a nationally televised game. 
“For the longest time, we were saying we deserve to mentioned with those top-tier teams,” Clay said. “I think now that we are being mentioned, it’s very impor­tant this season to show that we deserve to be here. 
“We were always trying to prove everyone wrong, and now I think our goal is to prove every­one right.” 
A game at Cowboys Stadium against a top-10 opponent will make for quite a debut for new Oregon State starting quarter­back Ryan Katz, who spent last year backing up Sean Canfield. Canfield graduated after throw­ing for 21 touchdowns and com­pleting a school-record 67.9 per­cent of his passes. 
“The transition at that position always provides a mystery,” coach Mike Riley said. “The guys will have to give Ryan a lot of support, but this kid is going to be a good quarterback.” 
Katz — a sophomore — has appeared in only four games, which means the Beavers may look to more experienced offen­sive players such as junior run­ning back Jacquizz Rodgers to take the lead. 
The 5-foot-7 Rodgers finished 11th in the FBS with 1,440 rush­ing yards and his 21 TD runs ranked third in the nation. He and older brother James, who had 91 receptions for 1,034 yards and nine touchdowns, are two of the eight offensive starters returning from last year’s team. Oregon State also returns eight starters on defense. 
While they don’t have experi­ence at quarterback, the Beavers are optimistic they have enough proven players to make another run at a Pac-10 title. Only a loss to Oregon in the regular-season finale denied them their first trip to Pasadena since 1965. 
Oregon State wrapped up an 8-5 season with a 44-20 loss to BYU in the Las Vegas Bowl. 
“I think we can do it because a lot of guys bought into staying in Corvallis in the summer, more guys than we’ve had in past years — just combining and coming together in the summer to work on timing and every­thing else,” Jacquizz Rodgers said. “I think it will be a great year for us.” 
This is the first time these pro­grams have met. 
NFL 




Brees not one to slow down 
Associated Press 
METAIRIE, La. — Drew Brees stood alone on the goal line, reflecting on everything that went wrong in practice. Then he took off, running the length of the New Orleans Saints’ practice field several times over. 
It’s his way of punishing him­self for bad throws and poor execution during practice. 
At 31, Brees is at the top of his game — and he wants to stay there. 
He routinely throws extra passes after practice to a handful receivers, and when Brees is the last player remaining on the field, helmet still on, he runs sprints that no one but himself has required of him. 
“I punish myself from time to time with conditioning or what­ever,” Brees said. “When you feel like you don’t have something down … you spend the extra time to get it done and make sure you feel comfortable and confident with it.” 
Brees said he usually picks to picks a number that means something to determine how much “punishment” he should receive. 
“If I throw a pick, I might say for every pick I throw, I will run two extra gassers,” he said. “Or, for every incompletion or bad decision, I am going to do this. If I ran a 2-minute drill that I am not happy with, I might go back through it again and visualize the defense I saw and run the through the routes that I wish I would have done or the throws I wish I would have made.” 
Brees doesn’t have to wish for much off the field. 
He is the reigning Super Bowl MVP, newly published best-sell­ing author and cover boy for the popular “Madden” football video game. 
But defending Super Bowl titles has proven tough the past decade or so, according to statis­tics which Brees can rattle off from memory. 
Five of the previous 11 Super Bowl winners didn’t make it back to the playoffs one season later. Only the New England Patriots of 2003-04 have repeat­ed as champions in the past decade. 
Brees has spoken of being motivated by the fear of failure, and he said soon after the Saints began offseason training that there was no better time to instill such fear in the squad than right after their championship. So when coach Sean Payton high­lighted the failures or recent NFL champs during a meeting last spring, Brees was pleased. 
“We haven’t been down this road before as defending champs, but the fact of the mat­ter is we all know this is a new season and everybody has the same hopes and aspirations,” Brees said. “There are 32 teams that believe this can be their year. … We know that we are going to get everybody’s best shot. We know we have to put our best foot forward every time we step on the field.” 

Regardless of how this season plays out, one thing that seems clear to Brees’ coaches and teammates — the Pro Bowl quarterback’s preparation has not been diminished by his busy offseason. 
Brees bounced around the talk-show, book tour and video game promotion circuit; his wife, Brittany, is pregnant with their second child — a boy due in October; and his community service endeavors were exten­sive, largely on behalf of chil­dren’s programs, schools and the military. 
“One thing you don’t have to worry about with Drew is his work ethic and his leadership,” said running back Reggie Bush, who also plays receiver in Payton’s high-octane offense. “What you see on the football field is what you get here at the facility every day, Monday through Saturday. That’s why he’s the leader of this team and that’s why he’s been so success­ful.” 
Payton said there is no reason for his quarterback’s self-imposed punishment, but he isn’t about to interfere with Brees’ routine. 
“It’s probably more of him working on aspects of getting better. I think he’s trying to give himself an edge, whether that’s the time he’s spending [throwing to receivers after practice] or whether it’s conditioning,” Payton said. “I just think it’s his competitive nature to keep pressing himself.” 
The two have a connection that works. 
Since Brees and Payton, who calls offensive plays, both arrived in New Orleans in 2006, the Saints have lead the NFL in offense in three of four years and were fourth in 2007. During that time, Brees has complete 66.8 percent of his passes for 18,298 yards — the highest four-year yardage total in NFL history. In 2008, he joined Dan Marino as the second player in NFL history to eclipse 5,000 yards passing in a season. Brees’ 5,069 yards fell 15 yards short of Marino’s sin-gle-season record 5,084. 

Brees, who has thrown for more than 4,000 yards each sea­son with New Orleans, now needs 3,437 yards break Archie Manning’s franchise record of 21,734 yards passing. Brees is already the Saints’ all-time leader in TD tosses with 122. 
And he could get better. 
“He started out [with the Saints] at a super-high level and it’s hard to get better, but he finds some way to do it,” receiv­er Marques Colston said. “The thing he’s really done well is communicate to us what exactly he wants, and that’s what makes the offense click the way it does.” 
Brees, somewhat small for a quarterback at 6-feet tall, has been underestimated much of his career. He was passed on by the entire NFL in the first round of the 2001 draft coming out of Purdue. 
His journey to Super Bowl MVP with the once sad-sack Saints, which included his reha­bilitation from a career-threat­ening throwing shoulder injury in 2005, formed the foundation of his first book, “Coming Back Stronger.” 
Now, as Brees enters his 10th season, he has established a rep­utation as one of the best quar­terbacks in the NFL. 
Former Saints and Atlanta Falcons quarterback Bobby Hebert, now a sports radio per­sonality in New Orleans, said he has “never seen a player work harder to lead by example.” 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  “What have we always said is the  “Where am I?”  
REWARD  PERSONAL  Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has  FOR RENT  most important thing?” “Breakfast?”  “You’re in the hospital.” “Ta-da!”  
many resources in place to assist  “No, family.”  ———————————————­ 
you.  “Oh, right! I thought you meant in  “Are you serious?”  
$300 Reward for lost JVC  the things you eat.”  “Almost always. I was once voted  
Camcorder.  If you or someone you care about  ———————————————­ Cirque du Soleil’s worst participant.”  
has been sexually assaulted, we  Looking for someone to share  “Hey brother.”  ———————————————­ 
Last seen in front seat of U-Haul in  can help.  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM- expenses in my ranch home on the  “Look, I just need something to  
parking lot south of staging area of  PUS!  Mmmrentals.com  south side.  You’re welcome, Tommy.  read. Pop-pop gets a Grisham?”  
north quad - visitor lot 2.  For more information, visit Notre  Email: mmmrentals@aol.com  ———————————————­ ———————————————­ 
Dame’s website:  ———————————————  “There’s always money in the  “I just wanted to share my  
If found please call Bryson at 913­ THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  banana stand!”  PopSecret with Buster!”  
323-4500 for $300 reward - no  Breakfast Inn has space available  Please call Jenny at  ———————————————­ 
questions asked.  http://csap.nd.edu.  for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms  574-303-5034  “Steve Holt!”  “Pop..secret?”  
———————————————  ———————————————  with private baths. $80-$115,  ———————————————­ ———————————————­ ———————————————­ 

Wednesday, September 1, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 

NCAA FOOTBALL 


Ingram’s repeat bid on hold 
Associated Press 
Mark Ingram’s run for a second Heisman Trophy has been put on hold, and possibly even derailed, before the Alabama tailback had a chance to gain a single yard. 
Ingram will miss No. 1 Alabama’s opener against San Jose State after injuring his left knee 

late in prac-“Mark will defnitely Conference tailbacks. tice Monday, be out for this week’s Ingram became coach Nick Alabama’s first 
game.” 

Saban said Heisman winner as a Tuesday. sophomore after 
Saban said Nick Saban rushing for a school-in a state-Alabama coach record 1,658 yards 
ment the star tailback had an arthroscopic procedure and should make a full recovery in a “relatively short time.” 
“Mark will definitely be out for this week’s game against San Jose State and we will manage this on a week to week basis beyond this week,” Saban said. 
If the absence proves short-lived, it figures to have more of an impact on Ingram’s bid to join Ohio State running back Archie Griffin as the only two-time Heisman winners than it does on Alabama’s hopes for a repeat national title. 
San Jose State went 2-10 last season, but the Crimson Tide face a much stiffer test in the second week of the season. No. 19 Penn State visits Tuscaloosa on Sept. 11, then Alabama travels to Duke. 
Alabama does have a talented backup in sophomore Trent Richardson, who ran for 751 yards and scored eight touch­downs last season, including 109 yards and a 49-yard touchdown against Texas in the national title game. 
He and Ingram were picked as the preseason first-team all-South eastern 
and catching 32 passes. He’s the first running back since 
Pittsburgh’s Tony Dorsett in 1976 to win both a Heisman 
and a national title “Stats really isn’t an we’re in the same season. focused on.” 
issue or something
He was the third There’s not 
we’re focused on.” 
consecutive sopho-much experi­more to win the ence behind Heisman Trophy, Mark Ingram Richardson joining quarterbacks while Ingram 
Alabama running back 
Tim Tebow of Florida and Oklahoma’s Sam Bradford. An early injury side­lined Bradford, while Tebow was a finalist as a junior and a senior though he never got to hoist the bronze statue again. 
If Ingram misses more than one game, it could allow players such as Ohio State quarterback Terrelle Pryor, Boise State quarterback Kellen Moore or Virginia Tech tailback Ryan Williams—or some­one else—to get a head start on him in the Heisman race. 
Then again, the emergence of Richardson and a diverse offense that also includes standout receiv­er Julio Jones might have hin­dered Ingram’s chances to repeat anyway. 
Asked Monday if he thought Alabama could have two 1,000­yard rushers, Ingram said: “Yeah, definitely. I think it’s a definite possibility, but our main goal is to do whatever we can to help this team win. We’re not really focused on stats. We’re focused on executing our assignments, play­ing the best football we’re capable of playing week in and week out and help this team win games. Stats really isn’t an issue or something 
is out. 
Redshi rt 
freshman Eddie Lacy is listed as the third-teamer. 
“Eddie’s a little bit taller than all the other running backs,” Ingram said Monday. “He’s a physical run­ner. He can make you miss. He can catch good out of the back­field. He’s another great back. He’ll be real special here as well.” 
MLB 


Strasburg to undergo Tommy John surgery 
Associated Press 

MIAMI — Washington Nationals rookie ace Stephen Strasburg will have Tommy John surgery on Friday to rebuild his injured right elbow, an 
opera ti on that is expected to sideline him der who created such a buzz all through baseball was 5-3 with a 2.91 ERA. 
The 22-year-old Strasburg was the overall No. 1 pick in the 2009 draft and quickly climbed through the minor 
leagues this season. 
With a fast­ball that reached 100 

for 12 to 18 mph and 
“He is dealing with it
months. wicked curves, 
The liga-like a professional.” he struck out m e n t 14 during his replacement Mike Rizzo major league surgery will debut in June 
Nationals general manager
be in Los 

Angeles and performed by Dr. Lewis Yocum, with Nati onals team doctor Dr. Wiemi Douoguih assisting. 
“He is dealing with it like a professional,” Nationals gen­eral manager Mike Rizzo said before Tuesday night’s game against Florida. “He’s very determined to get it done and start the process.” 
Strasburg will begin his recuperation the day after the surgery, recovering at the Scripps Clinic in his home­town of San Diego. 
Strasburg hurt himself while pitching Aug. 21 in Philadelphia. The right-han­and had many 
fans saying he 
should be on 
the NL All-Star 
team in July. 
Strasburg was scratched from a start in late July after he had trouble getting loose in the bullpen. He went on the disabled list two days later with inflamma­tion in the back of his right shoulder. 
The Nationals were worried when Strasburg grimaced, shook his wrist and walked off the mound during his last start against the Phillies. An extensive MRI exam last Thursday revealed the severi­ty of the injury, a devastating setback for the last-place team. 


page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, September 1, 2010 
U.S. OPEN 

Sharapova escapes upset 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Down a set in the first round of the U.S. Open, Maria Sharapova sat in her changeover chair, briefly closed her eyes, and took some deep breaths. 
“I knew,” she would say later, “that it wasn’t over.” 
Whatever problems she encountered Tuesday, whatever the level of her game, all that mattered to Sharapova was the outcome. Overcoming a deficit and a big-hitting opponent to avoid a significant upset, the 2006 U.S. Open champion put together a 4-6, 6-3, 6-1 victory over 60th-ranked Jarmila Groth of Australia. 
“At the end of the day, even though I know I wasn’t playing my best tennis, I know I came out with a win. And sometimes it’s more important than any­thing, because you’re giving yourself a chance to go out on the practice court tomorrow,” the 14th-seeded Sharapova said. “You’re giving yourself a chance to play another match and to get better, you know, maybe work on the things that today weren’t working that well for you.” 
Groth hit 14 double-faults, including on the final point of the second set. She was by far the more aggressive of the two, tak­ing risks that sometimes paid off and sometimes did not. She hit 24 winners to 19 for Sharapova, and made 48 unforced errors to 17 for Sharapova. 
“She came out firing; didn’t give me many opportunities,” Sharapova said. “You just want to hang in there, get through it.” 
There was a lot of hanging in there on a steamy Day 2 at the 
U.S. Open, when the tempera-ture rose into the mid-90s. More than a dozen women’s matches went three sets, and a half-dozen men’s matches lasted the full five sets, including 2007 run­ner-up Novak Djokovic’s 6-3, 3­6, 2-6, 7-5, 6-3 victory over his friend and Serbian Davis Cup teammate Viktor Troicki. 


They played for more than 3 1/2 hours, and the on-court tem­perature approached 110 degrees. Djokovic was down a break in the fourth set while already down, before righting himself. 
“You kind of start panicking a little bit when you don’t feel great physically,” the third-seed­ed Djokovic said, “and your opponent takes advantage.” 
Mardy Fish, an American seeded 19th, also won in five sets, but fan favorite James Blake needed only three to reach the second round. 
Sharapova never has lost ear­lier than the second round in seven U.S. Opens. But she also hasn’t made it past the third round since taking the champi­onship. She lost at that stage in 2007 and 2009, and missed the tournament in 2008 shortly before having right shoulder surgery. 
Sharapova made adjustments to her service motion after that operation, then missed nearly two months this season with a right elbow injury. But she has seemed lately to be on her way back to being a contender at the biggest tournaments, reaching the finals at two hard-court tour­naments this summer. 
She only double-faulted twice Tuesday, and it was Groth who donated points with shaky serv­ing, including on the last point of the second set. 
“Maybe if I would have served differently,” Groth said, “every­thing would be easier.” 
At the start, though, it was Sharapova who hardly was at her best. When Groth pounded a return winner off a second serve, she broke Sharapova to take the opening set. 


NCAA FOOTBALL 

Mountain West loses BYU to independence 
Associated Press 

PROVO, Utah — BYU is going independent in football after all. 
BYU says it is leaving the Mountain West Conference and will go independent in football while joining the West Coast Conference in all other sports in the 2011-2012 school year. 
BYU and its new conference announced the moves in simultaneous releases late Tuesday afternoon, saying further details would be given at a news conference Wednesday at BYU’s LaVell Edwards Stadium. 
BYU said its resignation from the Mountain West takes effect June 30, 2011, allowing the Cougars to start West Coast Conference play next fall. 
The announcement ended nearly two weeks of specula­tion since BYU’s original plan to go independent surfaced, then unraveled within hours when the Mountain West Conference made a protective move and invited Nevada and Fresno State to leave the WAC for the MWC. 
BYU had an agreement worked out with the WAC to join in all sports except foot­ball, which would play as a Bowl Subdivision independ­ent. The Mountain West’s catch of Nevada and Fresno State foiled the plan and left BYU with little time to come up with something else before Sept. 1, the deadline to notify the Mountain West of any plans to leave before the 2011 school year. 
WCC commissioner Jamie Zaninovich began talks with BYU after the WAC plan fell through and was able to put together the deal in just a couple of weeks. 
The WCC had looked into possible expansion in the past year but decided to stick with eight teams. However, the chance to get a school the caliber of BYU was too good to pass up. The conference has just started talks to nego­tiate a new television deal and the new addition should 
only make any deal more lucrative. 
With perennial power Gonzaga, an emerging pro­gram at Saint Mary’s that won two games in the NCAA tournament last year and programs like Portland and San Diego that have had suc­cess in recent years, the WCC is in position to be a regular multiple-bid league for the NCAA men’s basketball tour­nament. BYU has been to 25 NCAA tournaments, including the past four seasons. 
Shortly after the BYU and WCC releases, Mountain West commissioner Craig Thompson released his own, saying the league would con­tinue to explore options for the future. It did not mention BYU by name or the Cougars’ decision to leave. 
“We look forward to the future with great excite ­ment—particularly welcom­ing recent additions Boise State, Fresno State and Nevada into the Mountain West,” Thompson said in the statement. 
Boise State joins the Mountain West next year, when Utah leaves for the Pac­10, and now BYU departs as one of just four independent teams in the NCAA’s Bowl Subdivision. The only other football teams without con­ferences are Notre Dame, Army and Navy. 
BYU, owned by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, has been looking into football independence as a way to increase the school’s exposure through its own network—BYU-TV—and oth­ers outside The Mtn. 
By going independent, the Cougars will have a challenge filling out future football schedules without the eight guaranteed Mountain West games. The agreement with the WAC included a provision for playing several league teams each year while leav­ing BYU free to fill the rest of 
t h e  d a t e s  w i t h  a n y  o t h e r  
schools.  
B Y U  a l r e a d y  h a s  s o m e  

future opponents in place for what would have been non-conference games in the com­ing years, but will still have plenty of work to round out the rest of the schedule. 


Wednesday, September 1, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
MLB 

Teixeira’s homer leads Yankees past Athletics 
Orioles down struggling Red Sox; Pierzynski sends White Sox past Indians 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Mark Teixeira hit a three-run homer and Curtis Granderson and Nick Swisher also went deep for the Yankees, who beat up on Oakland again in a 9-3 win over the Athletics on Tuesday night. 
The victory moved the Yankees back into sole possession of first place. Tampa Bay, which lost to Toronto, and New York had spent eight days tied atop the AL East. 
The Yankees, who came back from a three-run deficit to win 11-5 the night before, jumped on A’s starter Vin Mazzaro right away. Brett Gardner led off the first with a single, and the Yankees scored three runs in the inning, helped by second base­man Mark Ellis’s fielding error and Jorge Posada’s triple. 
They added two more in the third when Nick Swisher home­red one batter after Mark Teixeira singled with one out. Curtis Granderson hit a one-out solo shot in the fourth before Teixeira hit his 30th homer of the season. 
Yankees starter Phil Hughes (16-6) walked five but only gave up two runs and four hits in five innings. 
Chad Gaudin pitched three effective innings in relief, giving up only Daric Barton’s solo shot, and David Robertson finished the six-hitter for New York, which went 16-13 in August. 
Lost in all the slugging was the end of Marcus Thames’ home run streak. After six homers in five straight starts, Thames went 0 for 4. It wasn’t pretty, either: He struck out three times and fouled out to the catcher his fourth time up. 
Mazzaro (6-7) left after allow­ing nine runs, seven of which were earned, in 3 2-3 innings. He lost his fifth straight decision and hasn’t gotten a win in seven starts since July 24 against the White Sox. 
The A’s are 4-19 against the Yankees over the past three years—including 1-7 this season. 
Oakland had an ugly first few innings. In addition to Ellis’ first-inning error, he hit a ball about two feet up the line and then ran right into it for the second out of the third with a man on. Left fielder Jeff Larish badly mis­played the ball on Posada’s triple. His drive caromed off the wall back behind Larish, and the 39-year-old catcher was able to chug in to third ahead of the throw. It was the 10th triple of his career. 
Orioles 5, Red Sox 2 
Rookie Brian Matusz won his third consecutive start, and the Baltimore Orioles beat Josh Beckett and the fading Boston Red Sox on Tuesday night to cap a memorable first month under manager Buck Showalter. 
Luke Scott hit his career-high 26th homer, had two RBIs and scored twice to help the Orioles extend their winning streak to four. Baltimore went 17-11 in August, 17-10 with Showalter in the dugout. 
The Orioles last had a winning August in 1997—the most recent season in which they finished above .500. 
Matusz (7-12) allowed two runs, six hits and a walk in six-plus innings. The left-hander struck out six, including David Ortiz three times. 
Koji Uehara, the third Baltimore reliever, retired all five batters he faced to earn his fifth save. 
Jed Lowrie homered for the Red Sox, who have dropped three straight. Boston started the day trailing AL East co-lead­ers New York and Tampa Bay by seven games. 
Beckett (4-4) gave up three runs, two earned, and seven hits in seven innings. 
Baltimore got a first-inning run when Nick Markakis dou­bled and scored on a single by Scott, who ended a 2-for-21 slump. Markakis became the first player in Orioles history to hit 40 doubles in four successive seasons. 
It became 3-0 in the third. With runners on the corners and two outs, Adam Jones hit a grounder in the hole to shortstop Marco Scutaro, who threw wild­ly to second. Jones was credited with an RBI single, and another run scored while right fielder 
J.D. Drew retrieved the ball. 
Lowrie ended Baltimore’s run of 30 straight scoreless innings in the fifth, hitting his fourth homer following a leadoff single by Mike Lowell. It was only the third home run allowed by Matusz in his last seven starts. 
The Red Sox got runners at first and third with two outs in the sixth before Lowell looked at a third strike. 

Scott and Felix Pie both hit solo shots off Felix Doubront in the eighth. 
White Sox 4, Indians 3 

With Manny Ramirez standing in the on-deck circle ready to pinch-hit, A.J. Pierzynski con­nected for a tiebreaking, three-run homer off Frank Herrmann in the ninth inning to lift the Chicago White Sox to a win over the Cleveland Indians on Tuesday night. 
Ramirez, who arrived earlier in the day to help Chicago’s play­off push, was poised to make his White Sox debut and bat for Brent Lillibridge before Pierzynski came through. 
He drove an 0-1 pitch over the wall in right field, and as he rounded the bases, Ramirez retreated to Chicago’s dugout, where the fun-loving slugger cel­ebrated his new teammate’s heroics by high-fiving the rest of the White Sox as if he was the one who had homered. 
Edwin Jackson (3-0) struck out 10 and allowed seven hits in 8 2­3 innings as the White Sox kept the pressure on first-place Minnesota in the AL Central. Jackson gave up Shelley Duncan’s leadoff homer in the seventh, and appeared on his way to a complete game before the Indians rallied for two runs in the ninth. 
The right-hander gave up a pair of one-out singles, but man­ager Ozzie Guillen stuck with him—one batter too long. Jason Donald hit a two-run single and Guillen lifted Jackson to bring in closer Bobby Jenks, who had blown three saves in his last seven tries. 
Jenks gave up a single to pinch-hitter Matt LaPorta before retiring Michael Brantley on a comebacker for his 25th save. 
Indians reliever Joe Smith (1­

2) walked two batters in the ninth before he was replaced by Herrmann. As Pierzynski was headed to the plate, Guillen told Ramirez to grab a bat, but the 12-time All-Star never got a chance to do anything but warm up with it. After Pierzynski’s homer, Ramirez was called back. 
Jackson and Cleveland starter Justin Masteron locked up in a scoreless duel for 6 1/2 innings before Duncan’s eighth homer put the Indians up 1-0. Duncan came up in a 6-for-47 (.128) slide since Aug. 8 before con­necting on a 1-1 pitch from Jackson, who had struck him out in his two previous at-bats. 
Masterson, wildly inconsistent in his first full season with Cleveland, blanked the White Sox for the first 7 1-3 innings before Mark Teahen’s RBI single tied it 1-all. 
Ramirez got to wear his black No. 99 White Sox jersey for the first time, but he didn’t get to cross the white foul lines with it on. 
After getting up early for a cross country flight, he didn’t arrive in Cleveland until mid-afternoon and Guillen decided to hold off one more day before penciling him into the heart of Chicago’s lineup. Ramirez is expected to start Wednesday’s day game, batting fifth as the DH. 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 1, 2010 
Goalies 
continued from page 16 
They will bring different things to the table, but both are good goalkeepers and both work very hard.” 
Tuttle earned the starting gig during through the 2009 sea­son, and in 13 appearances before breaking his thumb against Louisville in the Big East Tournament, he gave up only nine goals and recorded five shutouts. He then tore his meniscus during a tryout with the San Jose Earthquake this summer, and Clark said his presence will certainly be missed. 
“Tuttle is amazingly quick and an unbelievably good shot stopper,” Clark said. “We made the decision last season that Tuttle was going to play in the tournaments, and then he got injured. But we were going to go with him once it came to the playoffs, so we knew he was a very strong goalkeeper.” 

Walsh is the most likely can­didate to fill in for the injured Tuttle. Though the 6-foot-3 junior saw no playing time as the third-string keeper during the 2009 regular season, Walsh had an impressive spring and accumulated 11 saves in two games this preseason. 
“Walsh, last year, had been the third goalkeeper, but in the spring and the Scandinavian trip, we played them even time, and it was great because Walsh got a lot of game time,” Clark said. “So that’s two springs now that he’s gotten a lot of game time, so he’s had a lot of time, and that’s been good for him. It’s not like this is a big something that’s new for him to be playing with the team.” 
LaPlaca and Wall will both also have to be ready if called upon, and Clark said he believes that their high school All-America backgrounds have prepared them for just that sit­uation. 
“They’re both very experi­enced, so they’re not kids who don’t know what they’re doing,” Clark said. “I think they both did well on Sunday. We gave them each a half, but we still haven’t made a decision on them, and we won’t make a decision on them yet. We’ll be evaluating them every day in practice, and they’ve both come in and played well. And I know if they had to be called on, I’m sure both boys would do a very good job.” 
Clark said he is hopeful that goalkeeping can be one of the strengths for this year’s Irish squad. 
“Tuttle was definitely a strength,” Clark said. “He was a very experienced goalkeeper. Walsh has not had the experi­ence except in the spring, and this is his big opportunity. He has three years left, so this is a great opportunity for him to get some minutes. So hopefully Tuttle comes back soon and we’ll have two experienced goalkeepers.” 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
MLB 

Chapman debuts for Reds 
How’s that for an advance 
Associated Press 

billing? 
CINCINNATI — The fire The 22 -year-old pitcher alarm was squealing at who defected from Cuba Great American Ball Park only 13 months ago arrived when left -hander Aroldis in the middle of a pennant Chapman walked through race on Tuesday. The Reds the dugout and stepped onto had won 12 of their last 16 a major league field for the games, pulling away to a first time. six-game lead over St. Louis 
No, he hadn’t thrown one Cardinals in the NL Central. of those triple-digit fastballs The Reds already are talk-yet. Just a false alarm. ing playoffs in Cincinnati. 
This time. And Chapman’s name is part 
The Cuban defector joined of the conversation. The the Cincinnati Reds before Reds are confident he can their game Tuesday night handle the pressure of com-against Milwaukee, with ing out of the bullpen with a 
e v e r y b o d y  pennant  race  
e a g e r  t o  s e e  riding on each  
h o w  h i s  t r i p l e -d i g i t  
urban-legend  pitch.  
fastball — the o n e c l o c k e d  “It looks like what  “ I c a n  t h i n k h e h a n d l e  
a t  up  to  1 0 5  you’re thinking it looks  i t , ” m a n a g e r  
m p h i n m i n o r s  t h e —  like — it’s MOVING.”  D u s t y s a  B a k e r i d .  
f a r e s  i n  t h e  “ B e c a u s e  i f  
majors. Will it  Chris Valaika  you  can  han- 
still sizzle?  Reds second basemam  d l e  p i t c h i n g  

The first time out, it sure did. 
Ch apman got a standing ovation from the crowd of only 19,218 when he jogged out of the bullpen to pitch the top of the eighth with the Reds leading 8-3. Fans let out a collective “ooh” after each warmup throw. 
His first pitch to Jonathan Lucroy registered 98 mph, and the third one hit 102 mph, drawing a loud cheer. Chapman made quick work of the three batters he faced 
— a strikeout by Lucroy on an 86 mph slider and two weak ground balls by Craig Counsell and pinch -hitter Carlos Gomez. Half of his eight pitches reached triple digits, topping out at 102. 
He walked off the field to another standing ovation. 
Those who have seen him pitch firsthand have no doubt he can keep it up. 
“There’s not a whole lot of guys like him, if any,” said pitcher Sam LeCure, who was his teammate at Triple-A Louisville. 
After a moment’s pause, LeCure said, “There’s none.” 
for food, you 
can certainly 
handle pitch­
ing here.” 

He was referring to Chapman ’s background in Cuba, where his ability to throw so hard made him a big-league com­modity. The Reds gave him a six-year, $30.25 million deal in January, expecting him to join the rotation at some point during the season. 
With more than enough starters, they moved Chapman to the bullpen last month and he excelled. A fastball that was clocked at 101 mph on scouts’ radar guns in spring training seemed to get better. He did-n’t allow a hit in his last eight appearances out of the bullpen, dominating hitters who couldn’t catch up with the fastball or handle the slider and changeup that go with it. 
His teammates in Louisville marveled. Whenever Chapman was on the mound, everyone watched the board in right-center field that showed the speed pitch at Louisville Slugger Field. 
Even the players couldn’t help but look. 
“Every time he lets one go, everybody turns around or peaks, ” second baseman Chris Valaika said. “You don ’t want to get caught looking, but you see 104 — that ’s something you’ ve never seen before.” 
Valaika said Chapman topped out at 104 mph while he was there. A few days ago, one of his pitches regis­tered 105 mph. Even if the radar in Louisville is off by a couple miles per hour, that’s still well above the speed limit for just about every­body else. 
Imagine what that’s like when the lanky pitcher with the long stride lets it go from less than 60 feet away. 
“It looks like what you’re thinking it looks like — it’s MOVING,” Valaika said. “And I’m really glad he’s on our side.” 
The Reds brought him up before Sept. 1 to make sure he would be eligible for postseason play. Chapman might get the chance to do what left-hander David Price did for Tampa Bay two years ago, when the highly valued 
s t a r t e r  g o t  a  c h a n c e  t o  
r e l i e v e d u r i  n g  a  p e n n a n t  
race.  

The Rays called him up in September — he was eligible for postseason play because of a loophole in the rules — and he helped them get to the World Series, where they lost to Philadelphia. 
There’s another precedent. In 2002, the Angels called up Francisco “K -Rod ” Rodriguez in September, got him on the postseason ros­ter and let him take them to their first World Series title. He tied a postseason record with five wins, set a relief record with 28 playoffs strikeouts, and at age 20 became the youngest pitcher ever to win a World Series game. 
Could Chapman bring some September sizzle to the Reds? 
“You don’t know how it’s going to end up, ” Baker said. 
Starters 
continued from page 16 

tions were firmly locked, Jones said others were unsure about where they would land on the roster. 
“Every day up ‘til the day it was released the depth chart was moving,” he said. “People were moving from first to third, second to third, second to first, so nobody really knew.” 
In many instances, players were simply jostling for the No. 2 designation. Sophomore tight end Tyler Eifert and freshman quarterback Tommy Rees were two such players, though Kelly said Rees is still in competition with junor Nate Montana. 
“There were only two slots to fill out,” Kelly said. “I didn’t have 2a and 2b. Really, that position is still one that will be evaluated all week and quite honestly all year ... I don’t think it’s accurate to say he’s got that position nailed down.” 
Several freshmen cracked the charts as well. Along with Jones and Rees, outside line­backer Prince Shembo, inside linebacker Danny Spond and cornerback Lo Wood were all listed at No. 2 of their respec­tive positions. Jones, Rees and Wood were early-enrollees, but Shembo and Spond did not practice with the team until the fall. 
On the defensive chart, the biggest battle ended with senior outside linebacker Kerry Neal above 2009 starter and fellow senior Brian Smith. 
“I wouldn’t get married to who’s first and second,” Kelly said. “They’re interchangeable pieces.” 
Defensive coordinator Bob Diaco said the list shouldn’t have come as a surprise to play­ers, or as something that can’t be changed. 
“The players and coaches are in daily communication about their assets and liabilities as it relates to their role on the team, which is constantly changing,” he said. “Conditioning comes into play, drive sequence comes into play, health comes in to play. Installation, type of offense comes into play as it relates to exposing a liability or helping someone’s asset. Every day is different, every week is differ­ent, every opponent is differ­ent.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Runners 
continued from page 16 

Catie Salyer, starting tonight against Goshen. 
“Every team we run against poses some sort of challenge, so we will just see what they have to bring to the meet and we will respond,” McVey said. 
Though tonight’s race marks the season opener, the Belles hope to set the tone for a solid 
Belles 
continued from page 16 

work through momentary set­backs. With our freshman bring­ing great talent and height to the team, we have the chance to have a winning season.” 
Seniors Meghann Rose and Ellen Huelsmann return for their fourth season with the squad and, in addition to their solid play, they season. 
“It will be a good opportunity to see what kind of a race they can put together; individually as well as collectively,” Bauters said. “We are really just hoping to get a good idea of what we are working with leading into the MIAA competition in sever­al weeks.” 
Tonight’s race begins at 6 
p.m. at Saint Mary’s. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
are mentoring the numerous underclassmen. 
Their first challenge comes tonight again cross-town rival Bethel. The Belles lost to the Pilots in the opener last season, but a win tonight could start the season off on the right foot and give Saint Mary’s some momentum. 
The match will be played at 7 
p.m. at Bethel. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


Wednesday, September 1. 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports

Wednesday, September 1, 2010 page 16 
FOOTBALL 

Depth charge 
Two-deep set for opener against Purdue 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
When Notre Dame’s two-deep depth chart for Saturday’s game against Purdue was released Monday, some players were very happy. 
“It feels like all the hard work I’ve been putting in since I started playing football has finally paid off,” said jun­ior center Braxston Cave, who earned the starting spot over senior Dan Wenger. 
But the updated depth chart could have also prompted one player to leave the team. 
Sophomore wide receiver Shaq Evans was granted a release from the team, Irish coach Brian Kelly announced at his weekly press conference Tuesday. 
“He is no longer on the team,” Kelly said. “He made a decision that he felt it was in his best interest to transfer. 
JULIE HERDER/The Observer 

We granted him a release and Irish coach Brian Kelly watches his team during spring practice on April 12. Kelly released the depth 
we  wish him the very best.  chart for Saturday’s opening game against Purdue on Tuesday.  
He’s a good kid.”  
Evans did not appear on the  reason for his departure, Kelly  conversation.”  Jones, who earned the No. 1  
depth chart following a move  told reporters after the press  The  wide  receiver  spots  spot  on  the right side above  
to the slot receiver position  conference.  were  some  of many position  senior Duval Kamara. “It’s  a  
during fall camp. Sophomores  “He came in yesterday and  battles that were solved upon  competition, day in and day  
Theo Riddick and Roby Toma  informed  me  that  he  had  release of the depth chart  —  out.”  
are No. 1 and No. 2, respec­ made a decision,” Kelly said.  at least, solved for now.  While many starting posi­ 
tively, at that position.  “This was not a two-way con­ “Any day it could change,”  
Evans did not give a specific  versation, this was a one-way  said freshman receiver TJ  see STARTERS/page 14  


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles face local foe in first match 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
The Belles enter a new season optimistic they can improve upon last year’s seventh-place MIAA finish that saw the team go 9-17 (5-11). 
“I feel like we have a great shot at having a winning record,” sophomore Autumn Nelson said. “We are all very dedicated to the sport and it shows in practices.” 
Sophomore Allison Zandarski is also looking forward to a success­ful year for the Belles. 
“I feel optimistic about our chances this season,” Zandarski said. “We have a lot of strong passers and as long as we com­mit to the team and each other we should have a great season.” 
The team has a good blend of experienced upperclassmen and talented underclassmen that they hope will mesh into a successful unit. 
“As always the key to winning is playing as a team,” junior Danie Brink said. “If we all do our jobs and give 110 percent, they wont be able to stop us.” 
Brink is also excited by the dynamics the young Belles bring to the team. 
“We have great team chemistry this season,” Brink said. “On the court we are able to talk and 
see BELLES/page 14 


MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish look for help in goal 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish will begin the 2010 campaign with a somewhat ten­uous situation at goalkeeper, since senior Philip Tuttle, the sure starter coming into the year, tore his meniscus and will miss at least part of the season. That means that the likely starter, junior Will Walsh, along with freshmen Adam LaPlaca and Patrick Wall, will need to step up for Notre Dame to start out the season on a high note. 
“Both [Tuttle and Walsh] are very good goalkeepers,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “They’re slightly different — Walsh is tall, Tuttle is a little broader. Both are very quick and both kick the ball very well. 
see GOALIES/page 14 

IAN GAVLICK/The Observer Senior goalie Philip Tuttle defends a shot during last year’s 2-2 tie in the Big East quarterfinals against USF. 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Saint Mary’s opens season against new foe 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 

Just one week into school, many students are complain­ing about the extremely hot weather. Some days, even walking to and from class and the dining hall seems unbearable. 
If these leisurely walks around campus seem exhausting, imagine running. 
Tonight, Saint Mary’s will brave the heat to race for the first time this season. After a disciplined summer of work­outs, the team has been working harder these past few weeks, incorporating hills, lifts, progressive runs and longer runs into their schedule. 
“The team came back in great shape, and we're look­ing forward to a solid season led by our experienced senior class,” Belles coach Jackie Bauters said. 
Not much adjustment has needed to take place so far, as Saint Mary’s has only made two new additions to the team this year. In addi­tion to their seniors, the Belles will look for leadership from sophomore Julia Kenney, who acted as a standout last year. Other run­ners expected to keep up top form from last season include junior Joanne Almond and seniors Clare McVey and 
see RUNNERS/page 14 






