the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students give feedback in Improve ND survey 

BRANDON KEELEAN I Observer Graphic 

Undergraduates call for improvement to ethnic, international diversity 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
If students notice improve­ments in campus services and facilities upon arriving to cam­pus next fall, they can thank the 51 percent of the under­graduate student body that responded to the University’s ImproveND survey. 
The Office of Strategic Planning administered the sur­vey in January to undergradu­ate, law and graduate students in order to assess student opin­ions on campus services. 
Overall, 51 percent of under­graduates, 58 percent of law students and 41 percent of graduate students responded to the survey, according to survey results. 
The survey questions per­tained to three main categories: academics, extra-and co-cur­ricular activities and campus environment and services. Each of these categories included subcategories such as campus safety, food services, RecSports, academic advising and cellular reception, among several oth­ers. 
The results of the survey were recently sent to each serv­ice-providing unit on campus and student government, Erin Harding, associate vice presi­dent for Strategic Planning, said. 
“We have asked both the campus units and student gov­ernment to return their sugges­tions and priorities for which aspects of campus services should be changed to the Office of Strategic Planning by mid-May,” Harding said. “We will then go through the compila­tion of suggestions and priori­tize the things to be changed.” 
Although overall undergradu­ate satisfaction rates were extremely high for the cate­gories of academic experience, extracurriculars and sense of community, only 41 percent of survey respondents said they were happy with diversity on campus and international stu­dent interaction. 
“The 96 percent satisfaction rate for academic experience was terrific,” Harding said. “However, the lower satisfac­tion rates correspond with the University’s focus on improving both ethnic and international diversity on campus.” 
Harding said she was sur­prised to see that 46 percent of respondents had not volun­teered at all during the first semester of this school year. However, she said the wording of the question could have affected the results. 
see SURVEY/page 4 


AnTostal celebrates end of year 
By AMANDA GRAY 
Assistant News Editor 
With finals around the cor­ner and the end of the year in sight, students can take a much-needed break with AnTostal festivities this week. 
AnTostal, Gaelic for “festi­val,” is Notre Dame’s annual celebration of the last full week of classes. It began Monday with T-shirts, tie-dye and tzatziki sauce. 
The decades-old festival started at 11:30 a.m. Monday with a T-shirt giveaway as well as a tie-dye booth outside of O’Shaughnessy Hall. A Greek food giveaway took place at 5 
p.m. in LaFortune Student Center. 
Sophomore Kevin De La Montaigne, Student Union Board (SUB) AnTostal pro­grammer, said he is excited about the week’s events. 
“It’s an important tradition in Notre Dame’s history,” De La Montaigne said. “Planning fun events at a stressful time of the year is my way of giving back.” 
Sophomores and SUB Cultural Arts programmers Meg Larson and Kate 
see ANTOSTAL/page 6 



StudentsprotestHEI,goonhungerstrike 

By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 

A coalition of students protesting the allegedly poor treatment of HEI Hotel Workers gathered in front of the Main Building Monday to kick off a weeklong hunger strike. 
Dressed in orange jumpsuits and donning signs, the stu­dents sat on a blanket on God Quad facing the Golden Dome in an attempt to ask University officials to change their invest­ment policy with HEI Hotels. 
Junior Liz Furman, one of the organizers of the protest, said she feels their mission is going unnoticed by the University and felt it was time to make a bigger plea. 
“We went to a hunger strike because we’ve done a lot of things this semester and received no response [from the University],” she said. “It was time to take the campaign to a much more public level.” 
According to a press release issued by the students partici­pating in the strike, “Students argue that the way in which HEI treats its workers is in direct conflict with Catholic Social Teaching on workers’ rights, including the right to dignity, respect, fair wages and to organize.” 

Furman said workers at HEI who have tried to unionize have faced threats, harassment and in some cases, been fired. The University has previously denied these claims. 
“Some of the workers are overworked, underpaid, and injured. Health care is too expensive for employees to pay for,” she said. 
Furman said the hunger strike was a way to show the students’ solidarity with the HEI Hotel workers during their fight for justice. 
“It is important to me because Notre Dame says to the world that it’s an upstand­ing Catholic institution that upholds Catholic values and Catholic social teaching on campus, as well as an ethical investment policy,” she said. “I’m a Christian and I really 
see HEI/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER American Indian discrimination page 3  AnTostal then and now page 10  Offense prepares for Blue and Gold page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, April 20, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Draft Day Blues 
Growing up, spring meant many things to me: Little League baseball, another summer quickly approaching, March Madness and all its excitement, and the NFL Draft. 
For 99 percent of NFL fans, the draft offers hope. The Falcons quickly turned around their franchise when they selected quarterback Matt Ryan (from our little brother out east) with the third overall pick in the Andrew Owens 2008 Draft. The team won seven Sports Wire more games the 

Editor 
next season and made the playoffs. 
On the other end of the spectrum, the ineptitude of some teams each year on draft day simply continues the cycle of turmoil for a franchise. Selecting quar­terback Tim Couch with the top overall pick will set your franchise back a couple years (if that is even possible for the Browns). 
Unfortunately, the draft habits of my Detroit Lions tend to align with the latter. 
Following a nightmarish 5-27 run dur­ing the 2001 and 2002 seasons, the Lions used their picks, third and second over­all, respectively, to select the dynamic duo of Joey Harrington and Charles Rogers. There was finally some hope for football fans in Detroit. Harrington to Rogers would someday invoke as many memories as Aikman to Irvin does. 
Unfortunately, Rogers’ collarbone did not hold up (nor did his resistance to drugs), and it quickly became apparent that the star Michigan State receiver would not produce in the NFL. 
Although injuries weren’t Harrington’s problem, “Joey Blue Skies” also failed to bring respect to Detroit. During his four seasons quarterbacking the Lions, he threw 60 touchdowns compared to 62 interceptions. 
It was not only the 2002 and 2003 drafts that general manager Matt Millen and the Lions front office failed miser­ably in. Of the nine first-round selections that Lions made from 2002-2009, only three are still on the roster: Calvin Johnson (2007), Gosder Cherilus (2008) and Matt Stafford (2009). The likes of Roy Williams, Kevin Jones, Mike Williams and Ernie Sims all find them­selves on different rosters, while Harrington and Rogers are out of the league altogether. 
Hopefully the Lions learned that pick­ing wide receivers in the first round of four drafts in five years is not smart-especially for a team that has many glar­ing weaknesses. 
My father and other relatives used to laugh at my high hopes for the Lions because “they will screw it up sooner or later.” I always attributed that outlook to them being “old and out of touch with modern day sports.” By that logic, at age 19, I am now also old and out of touch with modern day sports. 
I used to anxiously anticipate draft day-it was a day of hope in an otherwise bleak year for the Lions. The feelings of hope have been replaced by expectations of failure for whoever is next to don the Honolulu blue and silver. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT  S THE BEST PART OF ANTOSTAL? 







Andrew Ofsonka  Christine Donovan  Mike Wiederecht  Nick Eastman  Stephanie Walz  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Keenan  Pangborn  Keenan  Keenan  Pangborn  
“Free stuff.”  “Brink!”  “Free  “Free food!”  “The ice cream  
pancakes.”  truck.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Students swarm South Quad in front of O’Shaugnessy Hall in hopes of receiving a free AnTostal T-shirt. The giveaway, presented by the Student Union Board, allowed students to tie dye their T-shirts. 
OFFBEAT 

George Washington tabbed with late fees at N.Y. library 
NEW YORK — If George Washington were alive today, he might face a hefty overdue library fine. 
New York City’s oldest library says one of its ledgers shows that the president has racked up 220 years’ worth of late fees on two books he bor­rowed, but never returned. 
One of the books was the “Law of Nations,” which deals with international relations. The other was a volume of debates from Britain’s House of Commons. 
Both books were due on Nov. 2, 1789. 
New York Society Library head librarian Mark Bartlett says the institution isn’t seeking payment of the fines, but would love to get the books back. 
The ledger also lists books being taken out by other founding fathers, including Alexander Hamilton, Aaron Burr and John Jay. 
Quadruplets choose same 
N.Y. college 
EAST SETAUKET, N.Y.— The vote is unanimous. 
A set of quadruplets from New York have decided to attend the same college. Grace, Erin, Bobby and Danny Mele will attend Hartwick College in Oneonta, N.Y., in the fall. 
Grace Mele was the holdout. She was con­cerned about spending her college years known as “one of the quadruplets.” 
But the 17-year-old from Setauket (seh-TAWK’-keht) on Long Island decided it would be “traumatic” to split up the close-knit sib­lings. Says Grace: “We’re going to savor these next few years together.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday 

IN BRIEF 
An exhibition titled “All Art is Propagada” will be open today from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. The exhibition will be pre­sented in Hesburgh Library Special Collections Room 
102. The event is free and open to the public. 
Photographer Caroline Chiu’s exhibit “Polaroids as Chinese Ink Painting” will be open today from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. The exhibit will be presented in the Millie and Fritz Kaeser Mestrovic Gallery of the Snite Museum of Art. The event is free and open to the public. 
The Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering will be presenting a seminar titled “Combustion Dynamics in Propulsion Systems” today at 3:30 p.m. The seminar will be held in DeBartolo Hall Room 138. 
A lecture titled “Sustainability: The Key to Today’s Food Revolution” will begin today at 7:30 p.m. The event is part of the Food For Though Film Series and Lectures. The lecture will be presented in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
The Creative Writing Program will hold a “Poetry Reading Tag Team” tonight from 7:30 p.m. until 9:30 p.m. The event will feature Notre Dame students and faculty and will be held in the Hammes Bookstore. The event is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

Friday Saturday 

Atlanta 64 / 47 Boston 66 / 45 Chicago 66 / 44 Denver 68 / 47 Houston 78 / 57 Los Angeles 62 / 48 Minneapolis 74 / 46 New York 69 / 48 Philadelphia 70 / 48 Phoenix 88 / 63 Seattle 56 / 48 St. Louis 73 / 49 Tampa 80 / 63 Washington 69 / 48 
Tuesday, April 20, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Professors join group discussion 

By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Two professors joined Campus Life Council (CLC) to discuss aca­demic engagement outside the classroom and hear Council members present ideas for build­ing a more intellectual environ­ment on campus. 
Professor Philippe Collon, who also serves as associate director of the Center for Undergraduate Scholarly Engagement, said stu­dents have spurred debate on the topic. 
Professor Kevin Barry, associ­ate director of the Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning, was also in attendance, and he said ideas from the meeting will con­tribute to discussion in the administration about how to build greater intellectual engage­ment. 
Former senator Elise Jordan said intellectually stimulating conversations can take place in many places. 
“These conversations can spark in different groups of friends, in people who have a passion for what they are studying and want to bring it to the people they live with,” Jordan said. 
After brainstorming ideas for how to inspire members of the student body to expand upon cur­riculum within casual discussion around campus, CLC members focused on the residence halls as opportunities to create open intellectual environment. 
Every hall already has an aca­demic commissioner, and bring­ing together these minds to find out what works and what does not in the halls would be benefi­cial, former Judicial Council pres­ident Ian Secviar said. 
These academic commissioners could also create more informal events centered on social gather­ings with food and movies, mak­ing intellectual discussions more approachable and less formal, former student body chief of staff Ryan Brellenthin said. 
Secviar also said seniors have the opportunity to present their theses to members of their dorms. 
Former student body president Grant Schmidt said different styles of expression should also be considered. 
“Face-to-face conversation is valuable,” Schmidt said. “But writing can also help you express yourself and your ideas.” 
Schmidt said he is interested in the idea of a blog-style debate Web site for students to share their thoughts in a written form. 
Members also said broadening the scope of discussion and shar­ing fields of study is a matter of helping student branch out com­fortably. 
“We do not go to certain lec­tures because we feel like we will look like idiots,” Jordan said. “What might be interesting would be for professors to give introductory lectures for these topics.” 
Providing opportunities for stu­dents to engage outside of their comfort zone is important not only to fill seats in lectures, but also to help classroom discus­sions, Council members said. 
“To cultivate conversation at least initially at this school, [pro­fessors] have to force somebody to talk,” former Hall Council co-chair Brendan McQueeney said. 
Several members also said pro­fessors need to challenge stu­dents and push past their resist­ance. 
“We have a great culture of extremely polite students here,” Collon said. “But many professors want their students to be willing to challenge them in order to be equals in discussion.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Talk debates “Chief” mascot 
The exhibit, entitled “Beyond the Chief,” read “Fighting Illini: Today Your Host is...” followed by the name of one of the native tribes that used to inhabit the state. 
After the exhibit’s installation, the signs were vandalized, bent and even stolen, Warrior said. 
In response to the vandalization and thefts, Heap of Birds returned to the campus to have a dialogue about the issue. The Community Relations Service (CRS), a division of the Department of Justice also became involved, as the acts were deemed hate crimes since they tar­geted the Native American com­munity. 
“The CRS was concerned about escalation,” Warrior said. 
Heap of Bird and the Department of Justice’s efforts proved insufficient to end the van­dalism, as signs continued to be damaged, resulting in a new design for the exhibit, believed to be less easily damaged. 
“The new signs, fabricated in the style of highway signs and under 24/7 surveillance, seemed to stop the vandalism,” Warrior said. 
The vandalism, Warrior said, was caused by individuals’ disap­proval and discomfort with a dis­cussion of Native American issues, and a widespread problem of white privilege. 
Warrior said the simple presence of an exhibit dealing with Native American heritage sparked con­troversy and violent acts on cam­pus. 
“White supremacy, white privi­lege, and racism ... I see as sys­temic and pervasive,” he said. 
With regard to the continued movement for the removal of Native-caricature mascots on other college campuses, Warrior said the movements should be equally broad. 
“Things really work best when there’s some kind of grass roots effort,” he said. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
The controversial removal of the University of Illinois’ American Indian mascot served as the foun­dation for a discussion on free expression, hate and discrimina­tion at a lecture Monday. 
The talk, “Curating Beyond the Chief: Hating Art and Words in Public,” took place at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
The controversy over the long-held “Chief” mascot climaxed in 2007 when the university retired the mascot in response to pres­sures from a National Collegiate Athletic Association rule. 
But Professor Robert Warrior, director of Native American Studies at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, said this removal came much too late. Many other universities had begun removal of native mascots as early as the 1980s, he said. 
The growing tension over the mascot debate on campus led Warrior to begin planning an on-campus exhibit with artist Edgar Heap of Birds, renowned especially for his work with Native American themes and social commentary. 
“Campus climate was growing more intolerant of difference because of the controversy,” Warrior said. 
Warrior asked Heap of Birds to bring his work to campus, which included a series of signs that com­memorated the indigenous people who previously held the land. 
The project began with a dia­logue between Warrior, Heap of Birds, students and faculty over what would be the most effective way to make a statement about the Native issue on campus. Through this dialogue, Warrior said he realized it was not only necessary to make a statement, but also to be informative to them­selves and the rest of the campus community through the project. 
“We recognized in our discussion how little we knew about these people,” he said. 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 20, 2010 
Bike the Bend looks for participants 
By KRYSTINA HARCOURT 
News Writer 
Looking for something fun and athletic to participate in? Bike the Bend, a fun, non­competitive biking event, will take place around the South Bend and Mishawaka area on May 23. 
The event will take place from 6:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. and will commence in rain or shine. 
Peg VanNevel, event director for Bike the Bend, said anyone can register to participate in the event. 
“The goal of Bike the Bend is to provide our community with a family, friend-oriented event that allows everyone the opportunity to ride on trails and streets, side-by-side, cre­ating new memories and see­ing the beauty of our cities, parks, historical districts and colleges without motorized traffic,” VanNevel said. 
The Louise Addicott and Georgina Joshi Foundation is sponsoring Bike the Bend. Addicott and Joshi died in sep­arate plane crashes, and the Foundation wants participants to enjoy the city the same as they did. 
VanNevel said the event was inspired by Addicott, who loved the outdoors. 
“Louise enjoyed riding her bicycle to Farmer’s Market, Notre Dame and Potawatomi Zoo,” the Bike the Bend Web site said. “She loved exploring different South Bend neigh­borhoods and sharing those explorations with her husband [and children] on bike rides together.” 
The route for Bike the Bend is an estimated 30 miles, but does not have a set start and end point. 
“Riders are encouraged to start wherever they prefer, whether it’s closest to their home, or to strategically park their vehicle so they can enjoy a new section of our commu­nity,” VanNevel said. 
Bikers of all ages and all experience levels are encour­aged to register and partici­pate. According to the Bike the Bend Web site, those who register will receive a wrist­band, access to all ride activi­ties including the Post Ride Celebration at Kamm Island, a one-year membership in the Bike Michiana Coalition, and a Bike the Bend T-shirt. 
The Post Ride Celebration at Kamm Island will commence between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. Participants are encouraged to attend and pack picnic lunches or may purchase food from vendors at the Celebration. Live music, bike safety demonstrations and other exciting activities will also take place. 
The event stresses safety and encourages bicycle educa­tion through their event. 
“Every participant on the ride must wear a bike helmet, including children in bike car­riers/trailers,” VanNevel said. 
Participants who do not own or have access to bicycles may rent one from Outpost Sports for a discounted rate of $20. This fee also includes a hel­met. 
Pamphlets with more infor­mation on Bike the Bend can be found in the Angela Athletic Center at Saint Mary’s College. 
Contact Krystina Harcourt at kharco01@saintmarys.edu 


es, club sports and intramural sports alike, the survey results 
Survey 
will prove helpful to RecSports in seeing what they can 
continued from page 1 
improve over time, Harding 
“We don’t know if that low said. percentage was because the Other areas that demonstrate question asked about first room for improvement are semester volunteering or if stu-awareness of gender relations dents volunteer infrequently,” and multicultural student serv-Harding said. “Either way, that ices, as well as the value for gives us quite a bit to think price of merchandise and text-
about.” books at the Hammes Notre One figure the University and, Dame Bookstore. Harding said 
more specif­ically, the Office of  “We will have a more  the Bookstore is considering implementing  
Information  defnite list of  a  textbook  
Technology (OIT), may be able to  improvements by next fall ... By then, we hope to be  rental gram future.  pro-in the  
address  in  able to communicate what  While  the  
the short-term is stu­dent satis- changes resulted from responses to the survey.”  results of the survey will u n d o u b t e d l y  
faction with  help  the  
c e l l u l a r reception on c a m p u s . According to  Erin Harding associate vice president Strategic Planning  U n i v e r s i t y d e t e r m i n e which areas of campus serv­ 

the survey, 60 percent of respondents were either satisfied or very satisfied with cellular reception, where­as 28 percent were dissatisfied or very dissatisfied. 
“OIT has asked our office for more data on this issue so they can really start to address it,” Harding said. “We will probably see some improvement in this area as an outcome of the sur­vey results.” 
Another area of relative dis­satisfaction was with the Print@ND system. Fifty-six per­cent of respondents reported satisfaction with the system and 63 percent were interested in more public print stations on campus. These results could potentially lead to improvement in the near future, Harding said. 
In addition, students may see more concrete improvements in RecSports in the next year due to the high percentage of respondents that listed the ren­ovation or possible expansion of the Rockne Memorial Building as a priority. 
Although over 80 percent of respondents were satisfied with fitness and instructional class-
ices to improve upon and how to do so, these prospective changes are not finalized by any means, Harding said. 
“We will have a more defini­tive list of improvements by next fall,” Harding said. “By then, we hope to be able to communicate what changes resulted from responses to the survey.” 
In addition, Harding empha­sized the ability of students to make their opinions heard on the various issues addressed by the survey. 
“If students have any ques­tions or ideas, they are more than welcome to contact the Office of Strategic Planning,” Harding said. “The whole point of the survey is to improve campus services for students.” 
Harding also said the Office of Strategic Planning hopes to administer the survey on a reg­ular basis to measure improve­ment or show additional con­cerns. Currently, the Office plans to conduct the survey every other year. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 


World & Nation 
Tuesday, April 20, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Election votes to be recounted 
BAGHDAD — An Iraqi court on Monday ordered a recount of more than 2.5 million votes cast in Baghdad during the March 7 parliamentary election, a decision that could tilt the results in favor of Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki and inflame sectarian ten­sions after what has already been a con­tentious election. 
Al-Maliki’s bloc won 89 of parliament’s 325 seats, putting him just two seats behind for­mer Prime Minister Ayad Allawi. Neither has been able to cobble together a majority coalition with the support of other parties yet. In the meantime, al-Maliki has been try­ing to alter the outcome through court appeals and other challenges, and by trying to woo support away from Allawi. 
Pakistan bombings kill 23 
PESHAWAR — Two bombs, hours apart, exploded in the Pakistani city of Peshawar on Monday, killing 23 people and underscoring the reach of militants despite successive military offensives close to the Afghan border. 
A suicide bomber was behind the dead­liest blast, which occurred just before dusk in a crowded market area. 
Police said the target was apparently officers watching over a rally by members of a political party against power cuts in the city. Police officers and protesters were among the 22 dead and more than 30 injured, said police chief Liaqat Ali Khan. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
IRS begins to promote tax credits 
WASHINGTON — The government is reaching out to more than 4 million small businesses and tax-exempt groups to make sure they know about a new tax credit offered as part of the nation’s health care law. 
The Internal Revenue Service on Monday began mailing postcards to get the word out. 
The tax credit takes effect this year, and White House press secretary Robert Gibbs said it is intended to help smaller businesses and tax-exempt organizations that mainly employ lower-and moderate income work­ers. 
The goal is to help those employers start offering health insurance coverage or better afford the coverage they already provide. 
Activists push for gun rights 
ARLINGTON — Carrying loaded pistols and unloaded rifles, dozens of gun-rights activists got as close as they could Monday to the nation’s capital while still bearing arms and delivered what they said was a simple message: Don’t tread on me. 
Hundreds of like-minded but unarmed counterparts carried out a separate rally in the nation’s capital. 
The gun-carrying protesters in Virginia rallied on national park land, which is legal thanks to a new law signed by President Barack Obama that allows guns in national parks. Organizers said it’s the first armed rally in a national park since the law passed. 
The District of Columbia’s strict gun laws, however, generally make it illegal to carry a handgun, so rally participants there were unarmed. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Man killed in plane crash 
LANCASTER — State police say an 81­year-old Hanover doctor was killed when his single-engine airplane crashed in a field in southern Indiana. 
The pilot killed in the Monday morning crash was identified as Dr. Henry Schirmer Riley. 
State police responded to the scene near Indiana 250 in Jefferson County about 11:30 
a.m. Monday and found the dead pilot and the wreckage. 
A witness says the aircraft appeared to be climbing when it banked steeply and dived straight into the ground. 
IRAQ 

Top two al-Qaida leaders killed 
U.S. and Iraqi forces launch raid; Biden says deaths are a ‘devastating blow’to terror group 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD — The U.S. and Iraq claimed a major victory against al-Qaida on Monday, saying their forces killed the terror group’s two top figures in this country in an air and ground assault on their safe-house near Saddam Hussein’s hometown. 
Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki announced the killings of Abu Omar al-Baghdadi and Abu Ayyub al-Masri at a news conference and showed photographs of their bloody corpses. U.S. military officials later con­firmed the deaths, which Vice President Joe Biden called a “potentially devas­tating blow” to al-Qaida in Iraq. 
The organization has proven resilient in the past, showing a remarkable ability to change tactics and adapt 
— most notably after its bru­tal founder, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, was killed nearly four years ago in a U.S. airstrike. Still, some analysts contend, the group was far stronger then and would likely have a harder time now replenishing its leader­ship and sticking to a timetable of attacks. 
“The death of these terror­ists is potentially the most significant blow to al-Qaida in Iraq since the beginning of the insurgency,” Gen. Raymond Odierno, the top 
U.S. commander in Iraq, said in a statement. 
Al-Qaida in Iraq has remained a dangerous force as the U.S. prepares to with­draw most of its troops. The terror group has launched repeated attacks on civilian targets in Baghdad in an attempt to sow chaos and exploit political deadlock in the wake of the inconclusive March 7 parliamentary elec­tions. 
Monday’s announcement comes at a critical time for al-Maliki, who has staked his reputation on being the man who can restore stability to Iraq after years of bloodshed. The prime minister is locked in a tight contest with secular challenger Ayad Allawi to see who will form the next gov­ernment. Al-Maliki’s coalition trails Allawi’s bloc by two seats in the 325-seat parlia­ment, and neither has yet been able to secure enough support from other parties to muster a majority. 

Al-Maliki’s bid to keep the prime minister’s office received a second boost Monday when Iraq’s election commission announced it would recount ballots cast in Baghdad, after complaints of fraud lodged by al-Maliki’s coalition. The recount could potentially give the Iraqi prime minister’s bloc more seats than Allawi’s. 
Allawi has charged that Iraqi security forces have been unfocused since the election. 
But Biden, President Barack Obama’s point person on Iraq, said the deaths of the al-Qaida leaders under­scored their overall improve­ment. 

“The Iraqis led this opera­tion, and it was based on intelligence the Iraqi security forces themselves devel­oped,” said Biden, who came before reporters in the White House briefing room to draw added attention to the results. 
U.S. military officials have been highlighting the role of Iraqi security forces as American forces draw down. Under a plan outlined by Obama, all combat forces will be out of Iraq by the end of August, leaving about 50,000 U.S. forces in the country for such roles as trainers and support person­nel. Those forces will leave the country entirely by the end of 2011. 
The U.S. military said the early Sunday raid that killed the two al-Qaida leaders was launched after intelligence gathered during joint opera­tions over the last week led security forces to the elusive leaders’ safehouse about six miles (10 kilometers) south­west of Tikrit. 
Al-Maliki said ground forces surrounded the house and that rockets were fired from the air. The U.S. mili­tary said an American UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter crashed during the assault, killing one U.S. soldier and wounding three others; the crash was not believed to have been caused by enemy fire. 

Memorial honors anniversary of bombing 
Associated Press 

OKLAHOMA CITY — It’s been 15 years since a terrorist’s bomb destroyed the Oklahoma City federal building, killing 168 people and injur­ing more than 600 others. 
The passage of time hasn’t made mourning any easier for many victims’ family members. 
“Time heals nothing,” said Debi Burkett Moore, whose brother, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development worker David Burkett, was killed. She and other family mem­bers placed flowers on an empty chair meant to honor her brother that’s among a field of chairs at the Oklahoma City National Memorial. 
“It makes it a little more bearable, but it heals nothing,” Moore said. 
About 2,000 people gathered at the memorial Monday to honor those killed and injured in the April 19, 1995, bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building. At the time, it was the deadliest terrorist attack on U.S. soil. 
For many in attendance, a visit to the memorial is an annual rite — a way to pause and remember a loved one, former colleague, friend or neighbor who died in the attack. 
Kathryn Burkett, the mother of David Burkett, said she grows sadder by his absence with each passing year. 

“Why it is sadder? I don’t know why,” Burkett said. “You just live with it.” 
Other victims’ family members said they, too, still feel a deep sense of grief 15 years after the bombing. 
“I don’t make it here every year. It’s just too hard. It’s just like yesterday,” said Cornelius Lewis III, who wore a T-shirt and medallion that bore the portrait and nickname, “Puddin,” of his late sister, Social Security Administration employee Charlotte Thomas. 
“In 15 years, I would never miss it,” said her mother, Bettie Lewis. “This is part of our lives. I would never miss it.” 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 20, 2010 
AnTostal 
continued from page 1 
Augustine helped organize the Greek food giveaway. 
“If it’s any indication to how popular it is, the meat ran out in 30 minutes,” Larson said. “The rest of the food was gone in 45 minutes.” 
The two said they are looking forward to other events. 
“I’m looking forward to the Carnival on the Quad,” Augustine said. “[AnTostal is] a nice week of fun before finals.” 
A carnival will take place on South Quad Thursday from 3 
p.m. to 6 p.m. Other games will take place on both North and South Quads throughout the week. 
Larson said AnTostal is good timing because it takes place at a time of year when students could use a break. 
“Everyone’s got a bit of senioritis and is really looking forward to summer,” Larson said. “They’re all outside already, so it’s just a little fun and different things to take advantage of the nice weather.” 
Junior Zach Miller, who partic­ipated in the Greek food give­away, said it was a nice change of pace. 
“I really like gyros,” Miller said. “It’s a much better alterna­tive to the dining hall.” 
Miller said he looks forward to the free food and fun around campus. 
“I like being able to relax at the end of the school year,” Miller said. “I like being able to stop by events after class.” 
Miller said he will also attend the Blue and Gold game Saturday to support his room­mate. 
Senior Johanna Kirsch said she will also attend the game Saturday. 
“I’m looking forward to Dayne Crist and his beautiful smile,” Kirsch said. 
Kirsch said she enjoys AnTostal, but her busy schedule often interferes with the fun. 
“Even if I can’t participate in the fun, I can see fun going on,” Kirsch said. “I was excited about the T-shirt giveaway, but I didn’t get out of my dorm in time to go the giveaway and make it to work on time.” 
Senior Mary Clare Murphy said she is also too busy to attend all of the events she would like to go to. 
“I’m always too busy to do anything,” Murphy said. “But it’s nice to see things are going on.” 
Kirsch said she wondered why AnTostal did not bring speakers, like Christian Sirano, winner of Project Runway, who spoke at AnTostal two years ago. 
“I loved Christian Sirano,” Kirsch said. “Why didn’t they get anyone else of that caliber?” 
Sophomore Kristen Milliard said she is looking forward to the Parachute concert at Legends Saturday. 
“I saw them in concert for the first time last year at Legends, where they opened for another act,” Milliard said. “I really like their CD.” 
Milliard said AnTostal is not completely stress-relieving, though. 
“It doesn’t make me more light-hearted because I still have work to do,” Milliard said. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
HEI 
continued from page 1 
believe in respecting all people and all people have the right to dignity and respect. 
“I think HEI isn’t doing that and our University isn’t doing that.” 
The strike began at 8 a.m. Monday morning and will con­tinue through 5:30 p.m. Friday afternoon. Furman said 13 stu­dents will fast during the entire period, while others will participate in their own way. 

“We have 13 people hunger striking all five days through­out the week and have a bunch fasting for the day or a few days,” she said. 
In a press release, Furman said the group’s main goal of the strike is to call attention to the issue, prompting action by the University. 
“We want the University to recognize that it must take seriously the commitment we have as Catholics to act justly, respect all people, and honor workers’ rights not only on campus, but in our invest­ments as well. If we are sup­porting a company accused of violating workers’ rights, we should be concerned,” she said. 
University of Notre Dame Spokesman Dennis Brown said the University had no new information to add regarding its stance on HEI Hotels. 
Furman said five campus clubs will submit letters expressing their views regard­ing HEI to University president Fr. John Jenkins throughout the week. 
Contact Liz O’Donnell at eodonne1@nd.edu 

ND to host religious women exhibit 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame will be the principal sponsor of “Women and Spirit: Catholic Sisters in America,” a trav­eling museum exhibit on the history of Catholic women religious in the United States, when it visits north­ern Indiana in fall 2011. 
The exhibit, a project of the Leadership Conference of Women Religious (LCWR), began a three-year nation­wide tour last May in Cincinnati and is now at the Smithsonian Institution. It will be at the Northern Indiana Center for History 
f r o m  S e p t .  2  t o D e c .  3 1 ,  
2011.  
“ Wo m e n  a n d  S p i r i t ”  

includes photographs and items contributed by more 

than 400 communities of women religious, many of which have never before been placed on public dis­play. Articles for the exhibit include handwritten letter from Thomas Jefferson, a 19th century cradle from Sisters of Charity New York Foundling orphanage, a replica of the first incuba­tor, traveling trunks, jour­nals and diaries describing the sisters ’ immigration experiences, pioneering healthcare devices, sam ­plers, musical instruments, student work and miscella­neous artifacts associated with a number of saints. 
The University archives holds the archival records 
of the Leadership Conference of Women Religious. The archives also worked with the exhibit design team, offering research assistance as well as numerous photographs, films and videos for the dis­play. 
“I am thrilled that the University of Notre Dame’s central administration will be underwriting a signifi­cant part of the cost of the exhibit, ” said Kathleen Cummings, assistant profes­sor of American studies and acting director of the Cushwa Center for the Study 
of American Catholicism. “In attaching the name of the country ’s premier Catholic university to ‘Women and Spirit,’ we are recognizing that the work of women religious has been integral rather than periph­eral to church and nation.” 


The Observer 

Business
Tuesday April 20, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
Goldman Sachs steps up defense 
NEW YORK — Goldman Sachs stepped up its defense against civil fraud charges Monday, telling clients it did not withhold information in a complex transaction involving risky mort­gage securities. But a big question was: Will other big investment banks face similar charges? 
In a letter to clients, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. vowed to fight the government’s charges that the bank and one of its vice presidents misled investors by selling complex financial products tied to mortgages that were expected to fail. Both Goldman Sachs and the vice presi­dent, Fabrice Tourre, were named in the Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit on Friday. 
The SEC charged that Goldman Sachs did not tell two clients that the investments they bought were crafted by billionaire hedge fund manager John Paulson, who was betting on them to fail. 
IBM’s profit jumps 13 percent 
NEW YORK — IBM Corp. said Monday its first-quarter profit jumped 13 percent, and the com­pany offered evidence that corporate technology spending is rebounding after the recession. 
IBM said it earned $2.6 billion, or $1.97 per share, in the first three months of the year. In the same period of 2009 it earned $2.3 billion, or $1.70 per share. 
The improvement came not just from cost cut­ting, which IBM relied on much of last year to raise profits. In the most recent quarter, revenue climbed 5 percent to $22.9 billion. 
The results beat the average analyst estimate of $1.93 per share on revenue of $22.8 billion, according to Thomson Reuters. 
Even before Monday, there were signs that more businesses are spending again on technol­ogy such as computer servers and software after clamping down during the recession. Last week Intel Corp., the world’s biggest chip maker, said its first-quarter income nearly quadrupled. And analysts at Gartner Inc. said worldwide informa­tion-technology spending is expected to rise more than 5 percent in 2010, after falling 1 per­cent in 2009. 
IBM’s results reaffirm that the pickup in IT spending is significant and broad-based, said Annex Research analyst Bob Djurdjevic. 
FRANCE 

Airline losses climb to $1 billion 
Ash clouds in Iceland leave passengers stranded; industry demands compensation 
Associated Press 

PARIS — Airline losses from the volcanic ash cloud climbed above $1 billion Monday, and the industry demanded compensation from the European Union as officials agreed to let flights resume on a limited basis. 
Airlines are losing as much as $300 million per day, with European compa­nies like British Airways suffering the most. An umbrella group for the air­line industry criticized European leaders’ handling of the disruption, which has grounded thousands of flights to and from Europe for the past five days. 
“It’s embarrassing, and a European mess,” said Giovanni Bisignani, chief executive of the International Air Transport Association. The group complained that it saw “no leadership” from govern­ment officials. 
“It took five days to organize a conference call with the ministers of trans­port, and we are losing $200 million per day (and) 750,000 passengers are stranded all over. Does it make sense?” Bisignani said. 
Air transport officials said losses could run as ed situation that is having a for European governments fly subject to checks for high as $300 million a day, huge impact on customers dealing with the volcano. engine damage; and an although most analysts and airlines alike,” said BA Pierre-Henri Gourgeon, open-skies zone. expect the effect on U.S. Chief Executive Willie the No. 2 executive at Air Starting Tuesday morn-airlines will be limited. Walsh. “We continue to France-KLM, said his com-ing, “we should see pro-
The disruptions caused offer as much support as pany is losing $47 million gressively more planes by the ash cloud happened we can to our customers. (€35 million) a day even as start to fly,” EU Transport just as airlines were seeing However, these are test flights indicated the Commissioner Siim Kallas demand pick up, particu-extraordinary circum-routes were safe to fly. said. larly in the more lucrative stances that are beyond all “On all these flights, European civil aviation business travel segment. airlines’ control.” there hasn’t been any authorities held a confer-Last year, the recession The airline industry has reported problem upon ence call Monday about suppressed both leisure racked up $50 billion in arrival,” Gourgeon said. potentially reopening air-and business travel, caus-losses over the last decade. “There isn’t a real risk ... space, and transport minis­ing the industry to lose an The 9/11 attacks, epi-The precautions that have ters of all 27 European estimated $9.4 billion, demics of SARS and bird been taken are certainly Union members were con-according to the IATA. flu, increased security too restrictive.” ferring by phone and video-
British Airways said air-requirements, and the eco-European Union trans-conference. lines have asked the EU for nomic crisis have all been port ministers reached a Dominique Bussereau, financial compensation for cited as causes for deal Monday to divide France’s transport minister, the closure of airspace, decreased revenues. northern European skies told reporters Monday that which began last After the 2001 terrorist into three areas: a “no-fly” he had urged EU president Wednesday. BA’s London attacks, Congress gave U.S. zone immediately over the Spain ever since Saturday hub was among the first airlines $15 billion in aid ash cloud; a caution to call the ministerial meet-airports shut down. and loan guarantees, which zone”with some contami-ing immediately — but 
“This is an unprecedent-may provide an example nation” where planes can Madrid declined. 

Toyota recalls vehicles, will pay record fine 
vate lawsuits, which have been com-came less than a week after 
Associated Press 

bined before a federal judge in Santa Consumer Reports issued a warning 
WASHINGTON — Toyota hurriedly Ana, Calif. about the SUVs, a sharp contrast to ordered recalls of nearly 10,000 “In the court of public opinion, pay-the government’s contention that Lexus SUVs for possible rollover dan-ing the fine speaks volumes. But at Toyota took four months to order its gers Monday and agreed to a record the end of the day, the fines are sim-huge recall of other models over $16.4 million fine for a slow response ply background noise in terms of the sticking gas pedals. in its broader earlier recall, scram-civil litigation,” said Richard For the Lexus recall, Toyota said bling to fix safety worries that threat-Arsenault, a plaintiff’s attorney in dealers would update software in the en the Japanese auto giant’s reputa-Alexandria, La. “What’s really impor-stability control system, which is sup­tion. tant are the facts that were the cata-posed to help prevent rollovers. 
The fine, the maximum under law, lyst for the fines.” Toyota already had halted sales of could hurt Toyota Motor Corp.’s Addressing new safety concerns, new GX 460s and begun tests on all image more than its financial bottom Toyota said it would recall all 9,400 of the company’s other SUVs. line: The penalty is the equivalent of of the 2010 Lexus GX 460s that went The government accused the com­a little more than $2 for every vehicle on sale in late December — 5,600 pany of hiding the earlier defects the company sold around the globe that have been sold and 3,800 still at involving gas pedals, a contention in 2009. And analysts said it would dealers or elsewhere in the distribu-Toyota rejected though it agreed to have little impact on dozens of pri-tion pipeline. The announcement pay the fine. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, April 20, 2010 
THE OBSERVER America divided 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnewseditor.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Sarah Mervosh Meaghan Veselik Sam Stryker Chris Allen Sara Felsenstein Lukas Mansour 
Graphics Scene 
Blair Chemidlin Mary Claire Viewpoint O’Donnell Lauren Jordan Gamble Brauweiler 

“Now even as we speak, there are those who are preparing to divide us, the spin masters, the negative ad peddlers who embrace the politics of anything goes. Well, I say to them tonight, there is not a liberal America and a conservative America — there is the United States of America. There is not a Black America and a White America and Latino America and Asian America 

Christie 

— there’s the Pesavento United States of 
Right-Winging 
America … We are 
It 

one people, all of us pledging alle­giance to the stars and stripes, all of us defending the United States of America.” 
I remember the first time I heard these words, as I’m sure many of you do, dur­ing the election of 2004 when then-Senator Barack Obama delivered the keynote address at the Democratic National Convention. Shocking though it may be, even I have to admit that Obama was right. Politics in this country have become incredibly polarized, thanks in large measure to politicians who capital­ize on dividing our population along vari­ous social lines, such as liberal and con­servative, black and white, rich and poor; and pitting these groups against one another in order to gain votes. Ironically, Obama’s stinging rebuke of such tactics was given in the context of supporting the vice presidential candidacy of John Edwards, who built his presidential cam­paign on the idea of two Americas — the haves and the have-nots — in hopes of galvanizing the lower classes in support of his election. 
Of course politicians would not employ this tactic so often if it proved unsuccess­ful. As those familiar with sociological theory know, the existence of a common enemy provides a powerful unifying force among members within a given group by heightening their loyalty to the group and magnifying the characteristics of that group in contrast to the enemy. Politicians play on existing social bound­aries within the population in order to drum up support for or opposition to public policies. Take, for instance, the recent battle over healthcare reform. Those who favored the legislation char­acterized detractors as greedy rich peo­ple who were unsympathetic toward the plight of the poor and middle class (eco­nomic divisions), while those who opposed the bill accused the other side of trying to turn America into a socialist nation (ideological divisions). By estab­lishing this sort of “us versus them” men­tality and demonizing the opposing group, politicians frequently achieve results, and thus have little incentive to abandon the strategy. 
The Founders had a keen awareness of the dangers that could result when vari­ous interests align against one another in “factions,” and established our republic grounded in federalism largely to control their damaging effects. Aside from a sin­gle outbreak of violence during the mid-nineteenth century, Americans have enjoyed a sustained period of relative peace, and the system the Founders orig­inally designed remains intact. As Madison predicted, our institutions have for the most part served to “refine and enlarge” the selfish views of factions, which draw upon mutual animosities to vie for power and state deference toward their own interests to the detriment of other interests or of the common good. 
But today, our nation faces a factional crisis that is compounded by economic woes, a crushing deficit and an increas­ing number of entrenched entitlement programs that redistribute government funds to specific groups instead of using them for the benefit of the general public. Scottish historian Alexander Tytler fore­saw the advent of this crisis over two hundred years ago when he warned, “A democracy … can only exist until the vot­ers discover that they can vote them­selves largesse from the public treasury. From that moment on, the majority always votes for the candidates promis­ing the most benefits from the public treasury with the result that a democracy always collapses over loose fiscal policy, always followed by a dictatorship.” I fear that the sort of entitlement mentality that Tytler described, the same mentality that Franklin Roosevelt institutionalized through the New Deal, that Lyndon Johnson built upon with the Great Society, and that President Obama and his liberal allies in Congress are now feverishly seeking to expand, is pushing us down a path toward fiscal ruin. When the public’s greatest concern becomes “what’s in it for me?” rather than “what is good for the country?” and politicians are forced to give into these demands or risk political suicide, who is left to look out for the nation as a whole? 

To avoid the fate Tytler predicted, Americans need to change how they assess public policy, with an eye toward what is best for the long-term prosperity of our country rather than simply what will bring the most short-term benefit to oneself. There will always be differences and disagreements that divide our popu­lation, and politicians will always use them to their advantage. Entitlement debates play upon the division between the rich and the poor and are especially contentious, as reflected by Madison’s assertion that property tends to be the most common and durable source of fac­tion, and thus the most dangerous to the survival of the nation. The early twenti­eth century marked the dawn of the vot­ers’ discovery that they could vote to redistribute public funds to certain groups. If we are to maintain our preemi­nent standing in the world for the fore­seeable future, we cannot allow the temptation of government handouts to outweigh the need for sound fiscal policy and a concern for the public good. 
Christie would like to thank everyone who has read or responded to her col­umn these past two years, and wishes her classmates in the Class of 2010 the best of luck in their future endeavors. She can be reached at cpesaven@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“How we remember, what we remember and why we remember 

“The most profound statements are form the most personal map of our 
often said in silence.” individuality.” 
Lynn Johnston Christina Baldwin 
Canadian cartoonist author 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, April 20, 2010 page 9 
Far from perfect 
Thanks to my Father, I learned the poem “If” by Rudyard Kipling from a young age. It seemed the poem could always provide comfort whether I had done poorly on an exam or was being bul­lied. 
But after a time, James Napier the poem’s magic 
Demarcating
began to backfire. 
Democracy
All the virtues and traits it expounded left me overwhelmed and bewildered. How could anyone stay true to these prin­ciples under every circumstance and never fall short? I later realized that the poem does not describe a reality but an ideal archetype for which one should strive but not necessarily attain. By obsessing over synching my young life with each suggestion, I had made the per­fect the enemy of the good and missed the heart of the poem entirely. 
Understanding the poem is more than comprehending each bit of advice it offers. Rather, the poem’s central message is found in its underlying theme: balance. When Mr. Kipling advises one be able to “walk with kings” he also says one should be wary not to “lose the common touch.” And so for every statement the poem makes, there is a modifying declaration. 

In short, the poem says being a man (the poem was written for his son) is about moderation and balance because the virtues are not found in absolutes but in the margins. 
Regardless of personal morality, the concept of moderation and balance is something which most people can easily embrace and yet is so often forgotten in contemporary American society. This is not to say America is anything but a great country and an amazing place to live. But to say the country does not currently face many serious issues is to be blind, deaf and dumb. Health care, financial regula­tion, foreign policy, education and infra­structure are all areas in which the next several years will prove crucial in deter­mining America’s long term strength and stability. 
Each issue is deserving of its own col­umn if not a whole book, but they can also be beneficially discussed as a cohesive group. Like Mr. Kipling’s poem these diverse issues share common threads like taxation, capitalism and liberalism. But the most important connective tissue, as with the poem, is the concept of balance. 
This may seem a simple idea but it is actually far more complex than one might expect. Foreign policy has to balance short and long term interests while also keeping a pulse on public perception. And financial regulation has to balance risk management with corporate efficiency. Leaving aside any technical terms, each issue boils down to a discussion of rights and duties and how to balance them. Addressing the issue as all or nothing leads to drastic action that ends up doing more harm than good. For instance, many environmental groups are opposed to all drilling, nuclear energy and clean energy incinerators failing to understand there must be a balance between protecting the environment and maintaining economic growth. 
Perhaps the best way to break down this concept of balance is to address the issue which is truly at the center of modern pol­itics: the rights of the individual vs. the rights of the community. As contentious as this issue is — or perhaps because of it — most people, regardless of ideology, miss the point and argue for one side or the other. Disputably, many of these so called tea partiers fall heavily on the side demanding individual rights while Mr. Obama and his friends fall heavily on the rights of the community. But for their to be any real hope for success in America’s long term political issues, there must be compromises made between communal and individual rights. Frankly, this was the very basis for the American constitu­tion which, unfortunately, has largely been forgotten today. Just as the few should be free from the tyranny of the many so the many should be free from the tyranny of the few. 

Once one understands there must be compromise for the sake of long term sta­bility, the question then becomes what these standards of compromise will be. Here too, Kipling’s poem may come in handy. Though the key virtue is temper­ance (balance), it also emphasizes mod­esty, humility, honesty, and fortitude. Certainly, remembering the virtues will not solve every political crises or impasse but it will help keep everything in per­spective. In a political arena where politi­cal ideals are too often advanced at the expense of practical solutions thus making the perfect the enemy of the good, per­spective is everything. 
James Napier is a senior history major. He can be contacted at jnapier@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Classes in residence halls 
Classrooms in the residence halls do not work well. Faculty and students, who do not live in the res­idence hall, have to wait until someone who lives in the residence hall opens the door. This makes the students and faculty late. Also in some residence halls the “classroom” is in a public space, making it difficult to teach when students walk through the class to get to somewhere else in the residence hall (Ryan Hall for example). 
The University of Notre Dame needs another classroom building since classrooms have been changed into offices and other academic uses. 
Jessica Monokroussos 
Administrative Assistant O'Shaughnessy Hall April 19 
Desk hours 

The circulation desk at the Library should be open at all times when the Library is open. If this can­not be then the circulation desk should be open at least from 7:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. so then people arriv­ing and leaving work can be helped by someone. As it is now the circulation desk does not open until 9 a.m. while classes start at 8:30 a.m. This is inconvenient for faculty and students who might need their help before an 8:30 a.m. class. Having someone at the Library who can answer questions, sort out complaints and check out books when the machines cannot, would be great. This might cut down on books being “borrowed” without being checked out. 
Jessica Monokroussos 
Administrative Assistant O’Shaughnessy Hall April 16 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Ordinations to the priesthood 
On April 11, Divine Mercy Sunday, there were two men ordained to the priesthood on campus. These men have given up their lives for Christ. Without the priests on cam­pus Notre Dame would not be such a special place. So when you see a priest today, thank him for all he does to make your life have meaning and to keep you close to God through the Sacraments. Also, pray for Father Gerry and Father Kevin and all our wonderful priests in this year of the priests. 
Donna Stachowski 
parent of Notre Dame student April 9 

Those ND bathroom bothers 
During my time here, I have had a bit of a gripe with Notre Dame’s bathrooms. I had tolerated the issue, but it came to a head recently. The other day, I was working on a project at the brand new Stinson Remick building. I was there for a while, so inevitably I had to use the bathroom. I went out to find it, and found the women’s bathroom. Now, it would make sense that if you find the women’s bathroom, the men’s bathroom should be close by, right? Well, whoever built Stinson-Remick didn’t think so! After looking around for a few minutes, I found a map, and it turns out the men’s bathroom is on the complete opposite side of the building — nowhere near the women’s bathroom. Not only that, but I had to go through a maze of hallways to find it. In the end, what should have been a routine trip to the bathroom turned into a 15 minute game of hide-and-seek. That’s valuable time when you need to use the bathroom! Also, Stinson-Remick isn’t the only building with confusing bathrooms. Many other buildings do too, including Hayes-Healy/Hurley, Fitzpatrick and several others. In most buildings, bathroom locations make almost no sense. Now I know it would be near impossible to move bathrooms around in current build­ings, but the next time a new building is built, could you please put the men’s and women’s bathrooms next to each other and at least sort of easy to find? 
And don’t even get me started on the men’s bathrooms in girl dorms. Those are harder to find than Waldo and Carmen San Diego combined. 
Kevin Eller 
sophomore Stanford Hall April 12 
The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Tuesday, April 20, 2010 

AnTostal began as an Irish tradition in the 20th including Fat Wally’s, gave the students a bit of century. Inaugurated in 1953, the event carried Corby’s and Bridget recovery time in the morn-through until the 1960s when it fizzled out in McGuire’s. ing, beginning at 1 p.m. with Ireland. Initially, the celebration of Irish culture This year’s “Wiggity a last Bookstore game. Then was an attempt to attract tourists during the Easter Wiggity Wednesday” fea-came quite possibly one of off-season. tures games on South the most hilarious activities 
Today, Notre Dame holds a Quad and trivia in Notre Dame has seen, which 
Marissa Frobes 

monopoly over the term LaFortune. Hark to tradi-needs to be made a tradition AnTostal, which means “the tion, SUB. Take a note immediately. In the “Jocks festival,” since it has become from 1977! vs. Girls” Basketball game, 
Scene Writer 

an annual campus tradition 1977’s “Gentle since 1967. Taking place dur-Thursday” was jam­ing the last full week of class-packed. A full-out circus 
2010 schedule 

es before summer, AnTostal is meant to help stu-act came to campus, you dents relieve stress and let loose before they have could throw your friend 
Melodramatic Monday 

to hibernate for finals. in jail for a quarter and 11:30 a.m. T-Shirts and 
However, the AnTostal of 2010 looks nothing like at the annual Mr. Campus Tied-Dye at O’Shag 
the uproarious festivals of the 1970s. Comparing competition, President 5 p.m. Greek Food in 
the weekly schedules of this year to the AnTostal of Jimmy Carter was the Dooley Room
1977 illustrates the mellow and, quite frankly, bor-rumored to be making an AnTostal used to include “The Ugliest Man on 
9 p.m. The Domer 

ing nature of this year’s festivities. appearance. By the way, Campus” Contest. “Beppo” Guido won in 1976 Dating Game in the In 1977, the 10-year anniversary of AnTostal Bruce Jenner and Farrah with over 49,000 votes. Here, an ND student Ballroom
campaigns for Guido’s title.  

began on “Wicked Wednesday” with a bar crawl. If Fawcett were invited too! 
12 a.m. Quarterdog you bought a Happy Hour ticket, you were good for And students had to be Eating Contest in 

cheap (if not free) drinks at a number of local bars, careful; at a random point in the day, 500 ping-LaFortune 
pong balls were going 


1977 Schedule -Frisbee Throw 4 p.m. Impersonation Contest in front 
Wicked Wednesday of Alumni Irish Wake Happy Hour 9 p.m. Recess 103 2 to 5 p.m. Fat Wally's Bicycle races, ice cream, jacks, 
With a Happy Hour ticket, you get baby powder fights -all you can drink beer 11:30 p.m. “Sleep Out” on North Quad -Two mixed drinks for the price of Bring sleeping bags and let soft 
one music lull you to sleep! -One dollar off pitchers 6 to 9 p.m. Corby’s and Bridget Sunny Saturday McGuire’s 6 a.m. “Superstars” competition -Two beers or mixed drinks for the -100 yard swim price of one -Free-throw shooting -Golf, pool, pinball 
Gentle Thursday 7:30 a.m. Road Rally 9 a.m. Trivia Bowl on South quad 11:15 a.m. Campus Wide Picnic at 3 to 5 p.m. NDH and 
Emmett Kelly Jr. SDH Circus 12:30 Performance at a . m . SMC “Parade of 
50 cents for Chariots” admission 1 p.m. 
6:30 to 8:30, Ben -Hur O’Laughli n Ch ariot Auditorium Race 
-Goldfi sh 2 p.m. Swallowing M u d -Dunking Vollleyball 
Booth finals 
-Jail aFriend 2 : 3 0 for 25 cents--Pay p . m . your way out or Earthball get pied in the Soccer face Match, 
Evening: 21 North vs. and over party South
Yes, that is a ridiculously large bottle of at SMC Seagram’s whisky held by a Notre Dame lady Quad Clubhouse while partaking in a muddy AnTostal event.  3:30 pm. 
9:30 p.m. Mr. Tu g-of-Campus War, President Jimmy Carter might stop North vs. South quad by 4 p.m. Bookstore Basketball 
Bruce Jenner and Farrah Fawcett 9p.m.-1 a.m. Irish Wake in Stepan also invited Center 
P.S. At some point during the day, 500 Live band, disco dance floor ping pong balls will drop from the sky! Win a prize if you grab one! Serene Sunday 
1 p.m. Bookstore Basketball Frivolous Friday Consolation Game 
12:30 p.m. Activities 1:30 p.m. Jocks vs. Girls Basketball -Break record by fitting 32+ people Game 
in one car -Boys must play girls with boxing -Egg toss gloves, bags over their heads, or some -Jello toss sort of handicap -4 man sack race 2:30 p.m. Bookstore Basketball Finals -Keg toss 3 p.m. Slam Dunk Contest -Blind-folded football kicking to fall from the sky as 
(P)terodactyl Tuesday 
tokens for prizes. 

3 p.m. Games on North Quad
Flash forward to 7 p.m. Grill on Fieldhouse Mall

2010’s “Thabulous 8 p.m. Brink! On North Quad

Thursday.” A carnival is planned on South 

Wiggity Wiggity Wednesday 
Quad and the best of 3 p.m. Games on South Quad

AcoustiCafe is coming 9 p.m. Trivia in LaFortune 

to Legends. We all enjoy a little jam ses-

Thabulous Thursday 
sion, but what about 3 p.m. Carnival on South Quad

flying ping-pong 10 p.m. Best of AcoustiCafe at balls? Can’t President 

Legends
Barack Obama show up for a few minutes? 

Freedom Fri(es)day 
1977’s “Frivolous 8 p.m. Battle of the Bands at Legends

Friday” was comprised of some truly unique 

Showstoppin’ Saturday 
events that SUB should 1:30 p.m. Blue-Gold Game

have no problem resur­10 p.m. Parachute and The Carter 

recting in the future. 

Twins at Legends 
The organizers planned an event cen­tered on an attempt to break a record by fit-boys had to handicap themselves to even out the ting over 32 people in a playing field. Common impairments were boxing car. Keg toss contests gloves or grocery bags over their heads. A 1970s covered South Quad. take on Battle of the Sexes that should be reincar-Sleeping bags were nated. laid out on North Quad, “Showstoppin’ Saturday” of 2010 will probably be where students were modern AnTostal’s day of glory. The Blue-Gold invited to have a slum-game will excite the Notre Dame community, and ber party. one unofficial AnTostal event can’t be forgotten — 
This “Freedom PigTostal. Probably the biggest party of the year at Fri(es)day” is high-Notre Dame, it’s a glimpse into an average spring lighted by events like weekend at a state school. Also, it’s probably a Howard Hall’s Cake peek at what South Quad may have looked like dur-Walk and the Battle of ing AnTostal in 1977— but it’s not technically even the Bands. Quite the a part of AnTostal celebrations at Notre Dame. lackluster line-up in One cannot deny that this year’s plans do include comparison to the some awesome charitable events, such as “The AnTostal Fridays of Bald and the Beautiful,” where students will shave yore. their heads for St. Baldrick’s Foundation, a cancer 
The rest of the week-research non-profit. Additionally, college students end in 1977 must have never say no to free merchandise: T-shirts, sun-been a strain on the glasses and food will be passed out throughout the Notre Dame student’s week. body. Beginning at 6 Yet even the number of events planned in 1977 
a.m. on “Sunny was far greater than the arrangements made for Saturday,” there was this year’s AnTostal. A bit of drinking and danger an athletic competition, was involved in their outrageous ideas, but if devel­a road rally, chariot opers of the festival could minimize the risk and races, mud volleyball, maximize the fun of old AnTostal plans, students quad soccer matches might actually participate and get the stress-relief and Bookstore they so direly need this last week before finals. Basketball. They capped off Saturday The views expressed in the column are those of night dancing to disco the author and not necessarily those of The at the Stepan Center at Observer. an Irish Wake. Contact Marissa Frobes at mfrobes@nd.edu 
“Serene Sunday” 


Observer Graphic I BRANDON KEELEAN 
The Observer 

Scene
Tuesday, April 20, 2010 page 11 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 20, 2010 
PGA 

Furyk cites mixed feelings about tournament win 
Associated Press 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND, S.C. — Jim Furyk hasn’t had many vic­tories as bizarre as his Verizon Heritage win. 
OK, maybe he’s had at least one as strange. 
Furyk won his 15th PGA Tour event, and second since March, after Brian Davis ended their one-hole playoff by calling a two-stroke penalty on himself. Davis ticked a loose reed in a marshy area beside the 18th green and called in a ruling that confirmed was a 27-year-old pro playing the Argentine Open. Furyk had tied Eduardo Romero and was anticipating a playoff when “El Gato,” Romero’s nickname, was disqualified for signing an incor­rect scorecard. 
“We sat in the scorer’s tent 20 minutes waiting for a ruling and everyone else was speaking Spanish, and I had no idea ... what was going on,” Furyk recounted. 
Finally, Furyk was told he won. 
“Okay, he asked, 
“Why?” 
Furyk was 
almost as dumb-
the violation.  “I’ve only had a win  struck this time  
Furyk felt empathy for Davis, who dueled him down  feel more awkward than that once in my life”  after Davis’ infraction. “Are you sure?” he asked his oppo­ 
the  stretch  at  nent.  
Harbour Town as he tried for his first career tour  Jim Furyk PGA golfer  “I know I did,” Davis responded, according to PGA  
win.  Instead,  Tour tournament  
Furyk  was  left  director Slugger  
w o n d e r i n g  White. “I could  

whether to celebrate as his chil-not have lived with myself if I dren rushed the green. had not.” 
“I’ve only had a win feel more What Davis lost on the course awkward than that once in my will be regained in his reputation life,” he said. for his honorable act, White said. 
That came in 1997 when he “That will come back to him spades, tenfold,” White said. 
That was little consolation for Davis, who rolled in a clutch 18­footer for birdie on his final reg­ulation hole to catch Furyk and force the extra hole. 
Davis’ troubles began with his approach, a wayward 7-iron that hit the left edge of the green, rat­tled off the rocks boarding Calibogue Sound and settled amid some grass, twigs and reeds. 
Davis’ error, a violation of rule 
13.4 against moving a loose impediment during a takeaway, was indiscernible but for slow motion replays. 
“It was one of those things I thought I saw movement out of the corner of my eye. And I thought we’d check on TV, and indeed there was movement,” Davis said. 
He immediately conceded vic­tory to Furyk. 
“I want to react to the crowd and kind of wave and let them know, that ‘Hey, I’m excited,’” Furyk said. “But I don’t want it to take away from Brian.” 
Furyk earned $1.026 million, finally tasting victory at Harbour Town after posting two second-place and one fourth-place finish since 2005. 
Davis earned $615,000 for his fourth second-place finish on the PGA Tour. 
“To have the tournament come down that way is definitely not the way I wanted to win,” Furyk said. “It’s obviously a tough loss for him and I respect and admire what he did.” 
Moments later, the playoff was done with Davis’ self-imposed violation, something inconceiv-able in most other sports, where competitors take pride in getting every edge they can. 


“He’s class, first class,” White said. 
Davis held a one-shot lead over Furyk with four holes left when things began to go wrong. Davis had back-to-back bogeys on the 15th and 16th holes to slip behind the ultra-steady Furyk. 
NBA 

Bobcats’ Wallace: Team not afraid of Dwight Howard 
seven series when it resumes almost fouled out.” 
Associated Press 

Wednesday in Orlando, they Monday also offered the 
ORLANDO, Fla. — Gerald know they have to score more Bobcats hope they could make Wallace spoke with a bit of around the rim. a series turnaround. feistiness and flavor Monday, Even if that means on The nervousness players said fed up with the notion his Howard. they had in the franchise’s Charlotte Bobcats might be “He’s a shot blocker, and first-ever playoff game was intimidated by Dwight we’re a team that attacks the washed away, and playful jok­Howard’s presence in the rim,” Wallace said. “You put ing and trick shots were back paint. those two together, and some-after practice. Felton, for 
So this time Wallace sent an body has to win.” instance, said the “chills” he ever-so small shot back. Score the first round for felt before Game 1 were gone. 
“We’re not going to just let Orlando. Confidence that they were him think he’s the bully or that But the Bobcats believe they close started to take shape. he’s a factor up under the bas-have more than a puncher’s “To know that you’re able to ket,” Wallace said, “because chance. win this series, I think we got a he’s not.” Their attacking style in the chance. I like our chances. 
Say this about the Bobcats: second half nearly led them to Granted, they’re a great team. They still have some fight. an upset of the second-seeded But so are we,” Felton said. 
Their offensive efficiency was and defending Eastern Perhaps the best news of the a tale of two halves in their Conference champion Magic. day for Charlotte came with an Game 1 loss to the Orlando Charlotte closed the gap to five MRI on Stephen Jackson’s Magic on Sunday. Charlotte points in the final minutes, hyperextended left knee that has will go down.” pulling on Howard kept the All-turned into a perimeter shoot-driving to the basket with more showed a small bone bruise Or as Bobcats coach Larry Star center grounded offen­ing team when Howard swat-pop that forced Howard into but no structural damage. Brown put it, “I think if the sively, holding him to five ted eight shots in the first — foul trouble. The Bobcats swingman sat MRI said he had an ACL (tear), points and seven rebounds. nine for the game — and was “That’s why he had a lot of out practice and had an ice he’d play anyway.” While Orlando’s center was pushed out of the paint. blocks, because we were taking wrap around his knee. He Now if only the entire team frustrated offensively and 
The Bobcats went down by it in there,” Bobcats point walked with a slight limp but would play so fearless. played only 27 minutes 22 points, and sputtered until guard Raymond Felton said. expects to start in Game 2. Charlotte’s second-half because of foul trouble, his the reigning defensive player of “We can’t be intimated that “It’s real sore,” Jackson said. scrappiness at least provided defense was enough of a force the year hit foul trouble in the he’s going to block our shots. “It’s way sorer than it was yes-them with some confidence for Brown to call him the “most third quarter. To have any We got him in foul trouble. He terday. But hopefully come that the series might not be so valuable player” of the game chance to even the best-of-had nine blocks, but he also Wednesday, the little swelling it lopsided. The pushing and afterward. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
New upscale apts. Less than 1 mil  If you or someone you care about  I'm not a sentimental type guy,  You know, when I first came up,  
FOR RENT  from ND, next to Taco Bell on SR 933.  PERSONAL  has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit  but... most of us, we bang around the game for a while, then we are  Casey and everybody gave me so much pressure, saying I was going  

 Notre Dame's website:  forgotten. Ruth, Cobb, Gehrig,  to be the next Joe DiMaggio, so  
Darling 2 bedroom, 2 bathroom cot- 2-story, 8 unit bldg.  http.csap.nd.edu  DiMaggio, those guys were bigger  they gave me the number 6, right?  
tage with hard wood floors, front  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  ———————————————  than the game, and I know that is  Ruth was 3, Gehrig was 4,  
porch and patio, close to Eddy St.  Each has 2bd/2bath. GE appli­ not go it alone. Notre Dame has  not what you want. But right now,  DiMaggio was 5, and me, number  
Commons. 1334 Corby Blvd, avail­ ances w/dishwasher.  many resources in place to assist  That's just great. One guy's got me  whether you like it or not, you're  6. I hated that. And the press, they  
able for summer months short term  you. If you or someone you love  all washed up, the other's got me  bigger than the game. And this is  was all over me, calling me a hillbil­ 
lease. May, June, July $600 per  Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet.  needs confidential support or assis­ beatin' Ruth's record. You guys  your chance to go out there and  ly. I was, I mean, I came in with a  
month. Call 574-309.6961.  tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at  should get together an' make up  show them what you're made of,  $4 suitcase and a $8 dollar suit.  
———————————————  No water/sewer bill.  1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For  your minds, tell me how I am so I  and that you owe to yourself.  
$1000/mo starting. Call Holiday Inn  more information, visit ND's web  know how to play  ———————————————  My hometown's got 2,000 people,  
gradrentals.viewwork.com  Express @ 968-8080 &amp; leave  site:  What color will The Shirt be this  Yankee Stadium's got 40 times that.  
msg.  http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu  year?  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Tuesday, April 20, 2010 page 13 
Men’s Division I Tennis ITA Poll 
team previous 
1 Virginia 1 2 Tennessee 4 3 Texas 5 4 Southern Cal 3 5 Ohio State 2 6 Florida 6 7 Stanford 7 8 Kentucky 11 9 Texas A&M 12 10 Georgia 8 11 Baylor 9 12 UCLA 10 13 California 15 14 Duke 20 15 Louisville 16 16 Texas Tech 14 17 Illinois 13 18 Mississippi 17 19 North Carolina 19 20 Oklahoma 21 21 Vriginia Tech 23 22 Pepperdine NR 23 Wake Forest 18 24 Washington 22 25 Michigan 24 
Women’s Division I Softball ESPN.com Poll 
team previous 
1 Washington (25) 1 
2 Michigan 3 
3 Arizona 2 
4 Florida 5 
5 Alabama 7 
6 Arizona State 10 
7 Georgia Tech 6 
8 UCLA 4 
9 Oklahoma State 11 
10 Stanford 9 
11 Georgia 12 
12 Oklahoma 13 
13 Louisiana State 14 
14 Missouri 8 
15 Texas 17 
16 Florida State 16 
17 Oregon 21 
18 Tennessee 18 
19 California 15 
20 Illinois 19 
21 Texas A&M 20 
22 Massachusetts 25 
23 North Carolina 24 
24 Ohio State 22 
25 Hawaii RV 


around the dial 
NHL Hockey 
Blackhawks at Predators 9 p.m., Comcast SportsNet 
NBA Basketball 
Thunder at Lakers 
10:30 p.m., TNT 
NFL 


Goodell: Roethlisberger violated policy 
Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH — Ben Roethlisberger zipped passes to his wide receivers, exchanged jokes with teammates and smiled throughout his first workout since the Pittsburgh Steelers missed out on the play­offs. 
Business as usual for 
one of the NFL’s most-accomplished quarter­backs? Absolutely not. 
At the same time Roethlisberger was prac­ticing for the first time this spring, NFL commis­sioner Roger Goodell was telling a radio audience Monday that the quarter­back violated the NFL's personal-conduct policy with his “pattern of behavior" and "bad judg­ments.” 
Roethlisberger was accused of sexually assaulting a 20-year-old college student in a Georgia nightclub last month, although he will not face criminal charges. Roethlisberger does face disciplinary action by the NFL, including a likely suspension, following the release of documents out­lining tawdry behavior by the two-time Super Bowl winner. 
“The issue here is with respect to a pattern of behavior and bad judg­ments,” Goodell said on the Dan Patrick radio show. “You do not have to be convicted or even charged with a crime to be able to demonstrate that you’ve violated a per­sonal-conduct policy, and reflect poorly not only on themselves, but all of their teammates, every NFL player in the league, and everyone associated with the NFL. That is what my concern is, and I have expressed that directly to Ben, obviously, and I’ll be making a deci­sion as soon as I possibly can.” 

The Steelers are antici­pating a suspension last­ing as many as four games that could be announced next week. Goodell also could issue a 
IN BRIEF 

Cheruiyot wins Boston Marathon in record fashion 
BOSTON — Let him be known from Hopkinton to the Back Bay as “Robert the Younger,” the second Kenyan named Robert K. Cheruiyot to win the Boston Marathon and the first person ever to run the leg­endary course in under 2 hours, 6 minutes. 
Robert Kiprono Cheruiyot won the 114th Boston race Monday, finish­ing in 2:05:52 to shatter by 82 sec­onds the course record set by four-time winner Robert Kipkoech Cheruiyot, who's not related. American Ryan Hall, who finished third last year, missed another spot on the podium by 2 seconds, but his time of 2:08:41 was the fastest ever for U.S. runner in Boston. 
“Today was a breakthrough day,” said Hall, who was 6 seconds faster than Bob Kempainen in 1994. “Guys are paving new territory, and that's good for us, too.” 
Boxer Valero suspected in wife’s death commits suicide 
CARACAS, Venezuela — Former boxing champion Edwin Valero, who had a spectacular career with 27 straight knockouts and flouted a tattoo of Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez on his chest, hanged himself in his jail cell Monday after being arrested in the fatal stabbing of his wife, police said. 
Valero, 28, had problems with alcohol and cocaine addiction and struggled with depression. He previ­ously had been suspected of assault­ing his wife, and was charged last month with harassing her and threatening personnel at a hospital where she was treated for injuries. 
Valero’s 24-year-old wife, Jennifer Carolina Viera, was found dead in a hotel room halfway across the coun­try Sunday, and police said the fighter emerged from their room telling hotel security he had killed her. 
conditional suspension, much as he did in the Michael Vick case, in which the length of pun­ishment isn’t determined for months. 
Even if he is suspended, Roethlisberger could practice and take part in preseason games. 
The Steelers didn't take action against Roethlisberger themselves to avoid a possible appeal from the players’ union. However, several players said the club outlined to them, during a Monday meeting with coach Mike Tomlin, a newly adopted zero-tolerance policy in which unacceptable play­er conduct will be dealt with harshly and swiftly. 

While Favre mulls future, Vikings re-sign QB Jackson 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. — The Minnesota Vikings re-signed backup quarterback Tarvaris Jackson on Monday as they wait for Brett Favre to decide if he will return for another season. 
Jackson was a restricted free agent who was given a one-year tender worth $1.176 million. 
He served in a backup role to Favre last season and appeared in eight games. The fifth-year team veteran has 19 career starts with 21 career touchdowns passing and four rush­ing. 
A second-round pick out of Alabama State in 2006, Jackson became the Vikings' first-string quar­terback in 2007. He started all 12 games in which he appeared, missing the other four with a variety of injuries: strained groin, broken finger and a concussion. He also has had knee problems during his career. 
page 14 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, April 20, 2010 
Tuesday, April 20, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NFL 

Tebow attracts teams due to marketability 

Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. — Tim Tebow’s marketing power is already reaching its potential, even if his NFL future isn’t quite so certain. 
When Tebow strolled through a gym recently with a five-man entourage for an EA Sports video game photo session, the polarizing figure drew stares from people and clicks from cell-phone cameras. Toddlers jumped when he passed the day care center, nudging their noses against the windows. Even they seemed to recognize his appeal was something spe­cial. 
This is the Heisman Trophy winner who some called the greatest college player ever. Now he is an NFL enigma, a big question mark when it comes to Thursday’s draft because of his throwing motion and the offense he ran at Florida. 
Still, he is easily the most marketable player in his draft class, which offers a rare but intangible quality that reaches beyond sports — and could improve his draft stock. 
Tebow said in an interview with The Associated Press that one NFL team, expressing con­cern about his pro potential, even asked him, “Would I rather be the quarterback of their organization or the gover­nor of the state of Florida?” Tebow just laughed. 
Maybe one day. 
The former Florida quarter­back will appear on the cover of EA Sports’ NCAA Football 11 video game. It’s one of the many marketing opportunities now that he’s a professional. 
“It’s a blessing that people want to have me around,” he said. “You always want to be wanted.” 
Companies are lining up for Tebow to be their pitchman. Religious and advocacy groups want Tebow, the son of mis­sionaries, for commercials and speeches. Some owners believe he would increase ticket sales. 
And with good reason. 
The Davie-Brown Index, an independent marketing research tool, found Tebow to be more appealing and more of a trendsetter than New England’s Tom Brady, Minnesota’s Brett Favre and Dallas’ Tony Romo among oth­ers. The index is popular among brand marketers and agencies, presenting 1,000 respondents around the coun­try with a name and a face of athletes and celebrities. 
Tebow scored off the charts. 
“He is probably the most unusual case, because some­body that has that kind of pub­lic awareness is usually going to be one of the top five picks, and he’s not even expected to be in the first round,” said Darin David, account director for The Marketing Arm agency. 
“Nobody seems to have popped out quite like Tebow.” 
Tebow’s too-good-to-be-true image was padded with more than 700 hours of community service in 2009. That was high­lighted with stops around the globe in hospitals, poor villages and prisons — even visiting death row inmates — to help charitable causes and talk about his Christian faith. 
His giving attitude combined with his two national titles make him an easy choice for companies. Tebow already has signed a deal with Nike that will reportedly pay him $300,000. He’s made paid appearances for Gatorade, pitched a much-talked-about Super Bowl commercial and is the cover boy for EA Sports’ trademark college football video game — no split covers necessary. 
“Tim was an obvious choice this year, and the selection process is not usually an obvi­ous choice,” said Tom Goedde, EA Sports vice president of marketing. “Frankly, that’s why we switched to a one-athlete cover across all the game sys­tems. There was nobody else who could do what he could do for us.” 
And if Tebow could gobble up so much attention in college, why not the NFL? That’s a question swirling around NFL front offices. 
Since his pro day workout, Tebow has had individual ses­sions several teams, including Buffalo, Minnesota, Cleveland, Seattle, New England, Washington, Kansas City and Denver. But not every team is willing to bite just on his appeal. 
Philadelphia Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie, for instance, said he would never draft a player strictly for marketing purposes because “only players that are playing at a Pro-Bowl level have that capability” of boost­ing a franchise. 
That’s a sharp contrast to Jacksonville Jaguars owner Wayne Weaver, who called Tebow “iconic” last fall. He said Tebow’s “star power is incredi­ble” and made it clear the quarterback could help his struggling hometown team. 
Tebow’s leadership, durabili­ty and determination to be an NFL quarterback might be hard to overlook. And there are few athletes who create a buzz like Tebow does. 
After he decided to play in the Senior Bowl, ticket sales took off. More than 5,000 were purchased in the three days following his announcement. 
Crowds across Florida have waited by the hundreds for Tebow’s appearances. He has charged $160 for an autograph and $75 to pose in a photo at such events. The quarterback said the money goes toward the Tim Tebow Foundation, which donates to orphanages and Boys & Girls Clubs. 
Tebow understands some might disagree with his person­al views. 
No longer restricted by the NCAA, he has ventured into the marketplace. Just don’t expect to see him pitching beer or male-enhancement pills any­time soon. But he said he won’t shy away from his beliefs. 
Tebow will stick to companies that he deems have a positive message. 
“I’m very relational based,” he said. “So if I feel great with the people that I’m working with, if I feel that we’re on the same page and that they have the same interests as me, that they’re high character, that they’re loyal and they believe in a positive message, then that’s the type of people that I want to work with.” 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, April 20, 2010 
NFL 

Expectations high as Redskins start minicamp 
Associated Press 
ASHBURN, Va. — Donovan McNabb looks strange in a Washington Redskins uniform. Clinton Portis has yet another chip on his shoulder. Albert Haynesworth isn’t on the trading block — perhaps. 
The offensive line isn’t as bad as everyone thinks. The new coach is keeping a list of disci­pline miscues, which is somehow supposed to build trust. And he also got too much sun. 
Those were just some of the revelations Sunday as the Redskins wrapped up their first minicamp under new coach Mike Shanahan, who spent much of practice patrolling the field with arms folded and a scowl on his sun-baked red face as he embarks on the task of changing the culture of a team coming off back-to-back last-place seasons. 
“It’s a difference when you say ‘commitment’ and you want somebody to buy into a system that you really don’t believe in,” Portis said. “Having coach Shanahan here, you just believe in whatever he says. If he says I think we can jump off the roof and we going to land safe, it’s like ‘All right, let’s jump.’ You buy into it.” 
There were whoops from the players as McNabb completed a 40-yard touchdown pass to Anthony Armstrong on the first play of team drills. McNabb later had an interception run back for a touchdown, but the consensus is that the longtime Philadelphia Eagles quarterback has brought an emotional lift. 
“You can see his savvy, recog­nizing defenses,” linebacker London Fletcher said. “He’s not going to make a whole lot of mistakes.” 
McNabb said he’s already moved past the trade that brought him from the Eagles. He focused more on learning his new offense than expressing any peculiar emotions about wearing a burgundy and gold No. 5 jer­sey instead of a green and white one. 
“I feel like a freshman just get­ting to college,” McNabb said. “I spend a lot of time at night studying.” 
The absences of Haynesworth, quarterback Jason Campbell and linebacker Rocky McIntosh com­manded as much attention as anything that happened on the field. Haynesworth is unhappy about the prospect of playing nose tackle in the Redskins’ new 3-4 defense, while Shanahan is displeased that Haynesworth prefers to do offseason condi­tioning on his own. 
“He’s made a decision to do what he wants to do,” Shanahan said. “I’m just hoping that he can come in here in great shape, come in here and prove me wrong.” 
Haynesworth’s name comes up frequently in trade talks, but Shanahan sought to dampen the speculation with a denial that leaves quite a bit of wiggle room: “I’m not looking to trade any­body on our team.” 
Defensive coordinator Jim Haslett even made a public recruiting pitch of sorts, saying of Haynesworth: “When he does show, he’s going to have to play all three positions” on the defen­sive line — instead of just nose tackle. 
Campbell, demoted by the acquisition of McNabb, would like to be traded and is hoping it happens before this week’s draft. McIntosh is unhappy about his contract, having lost his chance to become an unrestricted free agent because the league and union haven’t completed a new labor deal. 
“I understand and I can sym­pathize,” Shanahan said. “But at the same time we’re dealing with the situation at hand, and I’d like Rocky to come in as quick as possible.” 
Portis expressed not a hint of discontent over his place on the team, even though Shanahan has acquired a pair of veteran running backs — Larry Johnson and Willie Parker — in free agency. Portis called them “great pickups” and that somehow it’ll work out that all three can con­tribute. 
Portis, however, did have a message for any outsiders who thinks he’s washed up. 
“I say for all the naysayers and the haters, it finally opened my eyes this offseason,” Portis said. “I think that’s the motivation I needed just to feel like it’s me against the world again. For all the media outlets who wanted me out of here and who felt like I couldn’t do it, I’ve got some­thing for y’all: The time will come. ... I’m going to let my work speak for itself.” 
Shanahan has his own set of in-house rules that he expects players to follow and keeps close tabs on violations. He said the rules are there to build “a very strong trust” — and he didn’t seem to think it contradictory to use the words “rules” and “trust” in the same vein. 
“My job is to make sure that everybody’s accountable to each other,” Shanahan said. “The rea-son why you do have rules is to make everybody beat to the same drum. And if you don’t, usually you’re not very good.” 


The day’s most surprising comments might have come from Shanahan’s son, Kyle Shanahan, the new offensive coordinator. Even though the offensive line is considered the glaring weakness of the team — it’ll be a major upset if the Redskins don’t address it heavily in the draft — the younger Shanahan gave it an unwavering vote of confidence. 
“They talk about that’s been a weakness, but I don’t see it on tape and I don’t see it out on the field,” Kyle Shanahan said. 


Tuesday, April 20, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 

Book It and Lock It was play hard and keep it as were simply overmatched by managed to pull it off.” pleased with its performance, close as possible.” the favorite. The Steel City Ballers man-
Bookstore 

and especially happy with the Dobrovic attributed the loss “It was a pleasure working aged to maintain a lead great performance of their to a lack of production offen-with this team on our throughout much of the game 
continued from page 20 

standout player, Nichols. sively, which was due in part Cinderella run to the final 32,” despite the fact that the pesky 
over their opponents. “I think we played pretty to a stifling defense from their Jacques said. DunkAroos would not go away. BrosLikeThisTeam.com, well, a lot better than our last opponents. Team No. 10 came in with a The Steel City Ballers, featur­
made up of seniors Patrick game,” McHugh said. “Aaron “We struggled offensively,” rather business-like approach, ing seniors Jonathon Peoples 
Robb, Wes Howard and Joe [Nichols] was pretty much he said. “They weren’t letting getting to work early in the and Sean Dillon, juniors Mark 
Idaszak, junior Kevin Laughlin unstoppable.” us get to the hoop.” game and taking an 11-4 half-Byrne and Mark Wilkins and 
and freshman Mike Dobrovic, The Bros, who wore lacrosse time lead. sophomore EJ Jones held up to 
gave Book It and Lock It a pennies with the names Team No. 10 21, “We wanted to play shut-their ranking to come back for 
good run, but were simply Brosemite Sam, Brosef Stalin, Vincent Van Bros 10 down defense, no second the win. 
overmatched and had no help Brochocinco, Apolo Anton The Cinderella story of the chance opportunities, good The Steel City Ballers faced a 
from the referees. Brono, and Haranbrody across Vincent Van Bros came to an rebounding,” captain Tim Lang tough challenge in the 
BrosLikeThisTeam.com was the back, knew they were not end Monday as they fell to said. DunkAroos on the cool night 
visibly and audibly upset by the favorite heading into the Team No. 10 in a fairly lop-He and his teammates Mike on the Bookstore courts. The 
some of the commissioners’ game, and just wanted to sided game. Vincent Van Bros’ Maney, Tim Wallace, Matt DunkAroos, featuring fresh-
calls, as their foul total make a game out of it. freshman Chris Jacques, Ed Gimlett and Tim Whelan did man Erick Van Eperen, Matt 
climbed to eight in the first “We knew we were the Stivers, Eric Zeltwanger, exactly that en route to victory. Kilgannon, Joe McClay, Joe 
half, while Book It and Lock It underdogs,” Dobrovic said. Patrick Lampton and Matthew Both teams had a sizeable Williams and sophomore Matt 
had none. “Coming in, we just wanted to Hooks gave it all they had, but turnout from their fans, and Cirillo, gave the Ballers a run the Bros said that they were for the money. thankful for the support they Peoples drained some long-have received during the tour-range baskets when he was nament. given a little breathing room “I would like to thank the on defense. With some quick fans for coming out in mass baskets and tough defense, the numbers,” Jacques said. Ballers took control as the The Vincent Van Bros never game wore on. showed a lack of effort in the Van Eperen shined on the game, at times seeming like court for the DunkAroos they were one big shot away Monday night. He proved to be from making a run. too much to handle around the “I blocked out the voice of basket for the Ballers as he my seventh grade CYO coach scored many of his team’s telling me to stop shooting,” points. His moves in the post Jacques said of his multiple allowed him to get quality shots that just would not fall in shots against the Ballers’ the basket Monday night. tough defense. “We played with a lot of The DunkAroos played an heart,” Stivers said. “We mod-excellent game despite being eled our game after Love and the game’s underdog. Basketball. We played with “We are young, we played a love, but didn’t play good bas-good game against those ketball.” guys,” said Williams. “There is For Team No. 10, the round not too much to complain of 16 awaits, where the com-about.” petition is only going to get The Steel City Ballers tougher. For the Vincent Van advance to the top 16 teams Bros, rather than going home and are ready to compete yet with a trophy and champi-again in the Bookstore tourna­onship medals, they’ll have a ment. story and memories to last them a lifetime. Alexander’s Grill 21, Just Wet 13 Steel City 21, DunkAroos 14 Alexander’s Grill, the No. 1 The No. 7 Steel City Ballers team in the Bookstore defeated the DunkAroos 21-14 Basketball tournament, sur-Monday night in a heated con-vived another round as they test, in which the underdog defeated Just Wet. Alexander’s DunkAroos showed spectacu-Grill struggled to overcome the lar unexpected play through-zone defense of Just Wet early, out the game. but then took over the game, The Steel City Ballers did not especially in the second half. begin to take control until the The outside shots just were last few baskets. Up to that not falling for Alexander’s Grill point, the DunkAroos came out as they became frustrated by strong and remained within a Just Wet’s strong defense. few points of the Ballers for “We got off to a good start,” much of the game. Alexander’s Grill senior Tim “We started out kind of Andree said. “They played rough,” Steel City Ballers’ jun-really well and hit a lot of ior Mark Wilkins said. “We still tough shots.” 

Aside from Andree, Alexander’s Grill featured sen­iors Joe DeMott and Nick Fessler as well as juniors Dan Crisman and Sean Reed. 
Even though Just Wet played a tough defense at first, Alexander’s Grill outplayed them as the shots began to fall. Trying to remain in the game, Just Wet hit some well-contest­ed shots, but they didn’t prove to be enough. 
With a rather comfortable lead at halftime 11-6, Alexander’s Grill dominated the second half. Defense became key for the team as they turned numerous steals into transition points. Just Wet continued to fight back, but they were not able to prevail. 
“We went in there playing 
hard,” Andree said. “We want­
ed to be physical with them.” 
Just Wet consisted of senior Andrew Scheid, juniors Tom Friel and Matt Lauritzen and freshman Joey Connor. 
Alexander’s Grill looks to keep their top ranking as they look ahead to the round of 16 in Bookstore Basketball. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu and Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, April 20, 2010 
come off the ball with some 
speed, learning our pass 
Offense 
offense and starting to play harder.”  On fellow senior wide receiver John Goodman, who was “very limited” Monday: “Goody was making some progress, but then he got tweaked in the scrimmage [Saturday]. We’d like to see him out on the field as soon as possible so we can contin­ue to evaluate him and give him a chance to learn our offense.” 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


continued from page 20 
repetition, repetition. The footwork we use enables the quarterback to get the ball out quickly, and a lot of these guys are a little bit elongated in their footwork. It’s just taking too long for them to get the ball out for us.”  On senior wide receiver Duval Kamara: “Duval, the last week, is really starting to look like a BCS football player. He’s starting to block, 
Michigan 
continued from page 20 
home runs and 38 RBIs. 
But Michigan has also been getting the job done on the defensive side, and is second in the conference with a .968 team fielding percentage. 
Notre Dame will have to rely on its timely hitting, a factor that was missing for the better part of the sea­son and which has returned at a critical point in the schedule. 
“They’ve been doing a lot 
of extra hitting, which always pays off,” Schrage said. “I think we’ve settled into a lineup, so guys are more relaxed. If anything, as the season goes on the hitters catch up to the pitchers. I 
think we ’re “A lot of 
“I think we’re
definitely in them are that groove definitely in that playing, and right now.” groove right now.” they want to 
The Irish make some ­will be with -thing of the 
Dave Schrage 
out their top season,” three starters: Irish coach Schrage said. 
senior Eric Maust, junior Brian Dupra and sophomore Steve Sabatino, who all pitched in the weekend series against Seton Hall. Schrage said that the starting pitcher will be a game-time deci­sion between sophomore LHP Ryan Richter and freshman RHP Adam Norton. 
Notre Dame ’s lack of depth in the rotation comes on the heels of an injury to junior ace Cole Johnson, who went down last month with soreness in his throw­ing shoulder. 
“We hoped that Cole would throw last Tuesday, but he was playing catch and felt pain, ” Schrage said. “He got relooked at again on Thursday and was starting to feel better. He’s going to try and throw a lit­tle bit in the bullpen, and we’ll see where his status is. Right now he hasn ’t been able to overcome his soreness.” 
Despite a disappointing start to their final season, the seniors have spurred Notre Dame’s recent suc­cess and have displayed a sense of urgency in the sec­ond half. Schrage said he expects them to rise to the 
occasion heading into a rivalry game against the Wolverines. 
“They have a 
lot invested in 
this program, and they want to make their last year special. I’m expecting them to step up again.” 
First pitch Tuesday is scheduled for 6:35 p.m. in Ann Arbor. The two teams will meet again Wednesday at Frank Eck Stadium with a 6:05 start. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
two strokes behind Matuszak’s overall score, shooting an 83 Sunday. 
Senior Perri Hamma and junior Mary Kate Boyce both saw their scores improve on the second day as well. Boyce shot an 81 on the second day to improve her score by two strokes while Hamma cut six strokes off her Saturday score to shoot an 86. 
Winning the tournament was DePauw University with a total score of 630. The Tigers’ Taylor Beaty was the first place finisher with a total score of 149. 
Despite the relative unfamiliar­ity of the course, Matuszak said she felt the course was easy to adjust to on day one, which led to better scores for the Belles on the second day. 
“This weekend I just tried to play smart, the course was not that difficult to shooting a decent score was very possible,” Matuszak said. 
Saint Mary’s will have the luxu­ry of being able to host the final two MIAA qualifying competi­tions this weekend at Blackthorn Golf Club Friday and Notre Dame’s Warren Golf Course Saturday. Other than just being the weekend’s hosts, Matuszak said she is confident the Belles will be able to win the automatic birth to the national tournament. 
“The next two rounds are at home for us, which is a huge advantage,” Matuszak said. 
“We have all been working very hard as a team and we have the common goal to make it to nationals. 
“I think we all just need to have confidence in what we can do as a team and believe in our skills.” 
Saint Mary’s will attempt to overtake Olivet University for the automatic NCAA tournament berth this weekend with the sec­ond round teeing off Friday at 2 
p.m. at Blackthorn. 
Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 

Tuesday, April 20, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Tuesday, April 20, 2010 page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Making strides 
Molnar says there is no game plan for Saturday 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Writer 
Irish offensive coordinator Charley Molnar certainly hopes his unit will put on a good show in Saturday’s Blue-Gold Game, but in terms of a game plan — well, there is none, he said. 
“It’s a practice session with a crowd, which brings the pressure up another level, and both sides of the ball are anxious to perform and make a move,” Molnar said. “I think those are the benefits of hav­ing a spring game in front of a big crowd in the Stadium. As far as the actual play selec­tion, to me that’s really sec­ondary when the spring game comes.” 
The annual game in Notre Dame Stadium represents the end of spring practice, and Irish fans are anxious to get their first look at coach Brian Kelly’s squad — and especial-
SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

ly at new starting quarterback Junior quarterback Dayne Crist and the offensive line practice in a 11-on-11 scrimmage Saturday. Dayne Crist, a sophomore who The offense has been “making strides” in getting where the coaching staff wants them to be. will take the reigns from NFL-bound Jimmy Clausen. afternoon. some of those Wednesday and feeling a lot better than we do 
While Kelly has repeatedly “We have some things yet Friday. right now.” said the defense is ahead of that Coach Kelly and the staff “For the most part, we real-the offense at this point, feels like we must cover by ly want to see our offense just Notes:  Molnar on what the quar-
Molnar said Crist and the rest the completion of spring prac-master the base concepts that of the unit have continued to tice,” Molnar said. “We we have in the run and the terbacks need:“Repetition, make strides toward where touched on some of those pass game. If we can do that, they want to be by Saturday [Monday] and we’ll touch on we’ll come out spring ball see OFFENSE/page 18 

BASEBALL 
ND hoping to keep up win streak 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Although Notre Dame is still several wins away from reaching the .500 mark, a weekend sweep of Seton Hall has given the Irish (15­19, 5-7 Big East) a renewed confidence as they head to Michigan Tuesday for a non-conference matchup. 
Propelled by the team ’s recent success, Irish coach Dave Schrage said he believes his squad has weathered the storm to reach a turning point in the season. 
“Well, we ’ve won four games in a row,” Schrage said. “We have to look ahead though. Michigan is a top of the Big 10 team, and we just want to keep playing good baseball right now. Right now we’re trying to build off the momentum that we achieved over the weekend.” 
Michigan (22-12, 6-3 Big 
10) is currently tied with Ohio State for first place in the conference and has won six of its last seven games. The Wolverines are led at the plate by sophomore catcher Coley Crank, who paces the squad with six 
see MICHIGAN/page 18 


BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 

Teams fght for fnal 16 spots 
By MATTHEW ROBISON and 
TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writers 
Book It and Lock It came in the favorite, and did not dis­appoint, dominating BrosLikeThisTeam.com for nearly the entire game and winning 21-12. 
Consisting of seniors Pat McHugh and Mike Bramante, junior Aaron Nichols and law students Kieran Pillar and John Romps, Book It and Lock It looked like a legitimate con­tender on the Bookstore courts Monday night. They had the inside-outside game and were knocking down the outside jumper — even on the shaky Bookstore rim — and rebounded and defended well 
see BOOKSTORE/page 17 


SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Pat Mines from ItsZachDuboisFromTheKeenanRevue defends the basket against a TuneSquad opponent Monday night. 
SMC GOLF 

Belles improve to take fourth at Spring Fling 
By LUKE MANSOUR 
Sports Writer 

No. 5 Saint Mary’s finished fourth this weekend at the Illinois Wesleyan Spring Fling Tournament, an important tune-up to next weekend’s MIAA qualifying round for the NCAA berth. 
The Belles finished with a total score of 660 on the two-day competition. 
Despite hoping to finish high­er, Belles players said they felt the tournament prepared them well for the pair of conference qualifiers next weekend. 
“We were not completely sat­isfied with the fourth place fin­ish and went into the tourna­ment hoping to do better,” sophomore Natalie Matuszak said. “Although we expected to place higher we did post good scores which I believe will give us confidence for next week­end.” 
Matuszak finished with a total score of 159, leaving her tied for ninth place overall in the tournament. She was able to cut five strokes off her score on the second day, finishing with a 77. 
“The scores the second day were better,” Matuszak said. “For me, I felt a lot more confi­dent and knowledgeable of the course the second day, as I’m sure several of my teammates did.” 
Junior Rosie O’Connor was 
see BELLES/page 1 







