the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Commercial portrays 

Safety now under one roof 
‘Fighting Irish’ on NBC 

Game Day director Seamon promoted to lead reorganized departments 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
Three of Notre Dame’s safe­ty departments will be com­bined into one in the new Office of Campus Safety, the University announced last week. 
Notre Dame police, fire and risk management and safety departments, which previous­ly reported to different departments, will now be under the same leadership. The change is effective Oct. 1. 
Mike Seamon, who is cur­rently the assistant vice pres­ident for University Events and Protocol and director of Game Day Operations, will 
oversee the three depart ­ments. He was promoted to associate vice president of Campus Safety and will main-
see SAFETY/page 6 

SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

By NORA KENNEY 
News Writer 
A new two-minute com­mercial now airs on NBC during every home game, asking viewers “What would you fight for?” 
The ad focuses on the aca­demic work that is done at Notre Dame. 
“Three years ago we came up with a concept — ‘what would we fight for?’” Todd Woodward, associate vice president for Marketing Communications, said. “The concept is built up around us being the ‘Fighting Irish,’ which is based on football. 
“Football is critical to us, as is our Catholic identity, in communicating what makes Notre Dame unique.” 
Woodward said University President Fr. John Jenkins’ campaign to boost Notre Dame ’s reputation as a prominent research univer­sity is showcased in the advertisement. 
“In the ads, we focus on what people don’t know about us,” Woodward said. “We want to bring aware­ness to the academic work that our students and facul­ty are engaged in, but look at it through a Notre Dame lens since we believe we are not like any other school, and our approach here is different.” 
Last week’s commercial featured the work Notre Dame has done in Haiti in the aftermath of the earth­quake. The commercial shows the devastation in Haiti, and then responds to the presentation of this problem by offering a solu­tion. 
Researchers at Notre Dame have created new 
see NBC/page 7 




Irish Green rally draws 20,000; 9 arrested at game 

By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Damp weather did not pre­vent nearly 110,000 fans from heading to campus Saturday for the football game against rival Michigan, Director of Game Day Operations Mike Seamon said. 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) arrested nine people in total and removed 63 peo­
ple from the Stadium, NDSP Director Phil Johnson said. “Police made two arrests 
on campus outside of the Stadium, ” he said. “Both arrests were for public intoxication, and additional charges of minor consuming and resisting law enforce­ment were requested against one of the subjects.” 
Most of the fans removed from the Stadium were tar­geted for impairment or pos­session of alcohol, Johnson said. 
Overall, the weekend ran smoothly despite rain on Saturday, and students and fans showed up under the blue skies on Friday for the pep rally at Irish Green, Seamon said. 
“The pep rally to our best guess was well over 23,000 people,” Seamon said. 
Seamon said between 3,000 and 3,500 undergrad-
see ARRESTS/page 7 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Strangers in a strange land lecture page 3  Now and then page 8  Kelly remains confident page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesday, September 15, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT ARE YOUR PLANS FOR T E MIC IGAN STATE GAME?


THE OBSERVER 






P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Eric Prister Alicia Smith Allan Joseph Graphics Joe Wirth Sofia Iturbe Scene Photo Jordan Gamble Coleman Collins Viewpoint Patricia Fernandez 
OFFBEAT 
Police impersonator pulls over detective in traffic stop 
SELDEN, N.Y. — A Long Island man faces imperson­ation charges after police said a driver he pulled over for a traffic stop turned out to be a legitimate detective. Suffolk County Police said 35­year-old Victor Alfaro-Marquez of Selden was arrested Monday night, hours after the attempted traffic stop. 
Detective William Zambito was driving home from work at about 4:30 a.m. when an unmarked car with flashing lights and sirens stopped him. When Zambito told Alfaro-Marquez he was an off-duty officer, police said Alfaro-Marquez fled the scene. 
Charlie Speer  Emily Frazzette  Joe Paggi  Whit Johnson  Zac Suriano  
freshman  sophomore  freshman  sophomore  junior  
Fisher  McGlinn  Fisher  Knott  Keogh  

“Watching it on  “Probably  “Hopefully  “Curl up in my  “I have to go on  
TV. If I could  watching it  traveling to  snuggie, eat a  an ecology field  
travel I would.”  with my  Michigan  half gallon of  trip.”  
section.”  State.”  ice cream and  
enjoy the day.”  





Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

Alfaro-Marquez was arrested at his home. Police recovered two badges, hand­cuffs, a pellet pistol in a hol­ster and a Drug Enforcement Agency baseball hat and shirt. 
He was released on bail on a charge of criminal imper­sonation. 
There was no telephone listing for Alfaro-Marquez in Selden. 
Church community members display faith with tattoos 
ANAHEIM, Calif. — Church logo tattoos are the latest in offbeat testimony at an Orange County church that holds Sunday services in a punk rock nightclub and collects offerings in KFC buckets. City Church of Anaheim is celebrating its first year in operation and the goal of reaching a 200­member flock with a radical commitment to the congre­gation and community: Tattoos of the red-heart church logo. 
Pastor Kyle Steven Bonenberger told worship­pers that God “tattooed your name on his heart” and it was time for an ever­lasting commitment to Him and the church. 
The Orange County Register reported about a dozen people got inked, ful­filling the pledge they made if the church doubled its normal attendance. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The Secret Sisters Society will be hosting a luncheon and style show today at noon in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Proceeds will provide screening and mammmograms for under-served and uninsured women between 40 and 49 years of age. Ticket prices TBA. 
The “Maxwell, Einstein and Their Impossibilities” colloqui­um will begin at 4 p.m. today in 118 Niewland Science Hall. 
A lecture titled “Latina/o Youth, JROTC and the New American Militarism” will be held at 4 p.m. today in McKenna Hall rooms 112, 113 and 114. 
The Father Moreau Dinner will be held in honor of his Beatification date at 4:30 p.m. today in the Noble Family Dining Hall at Saint Mary’s College. 
“The Passion of Leadership” will begin at 7 p.m. today. The lecture will be held in the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. 
Salvador Plascencia will be reading excerpts from “The People of the Paper” today in the Hammes Bookstore at 7:30 p.m. 
Astronomy Night will be held at 9 p.m. today at the Clarke Memorial Fountain. T-shirts and Krispy Kreme doughnuts will be given away. 
Ricardo Pau-Llosa will be giving a lecture at 4 p.m. tomorrow in the Anneberg Auditorium in the Snite Museum of Art. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



77 68 HIGH 6568 7678
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


58 58 LOW 4952 5557 






Wednesday, September 15, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Professor explores new technologies 
Special to The Observer 
For Hsueh-Chia Chang, Bayer Professor of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at the University of Notre Dame, the greatest uses of microfluidic technology still lie ahead, in applications that will help tack­le some of the world’s toughest health and environmental prob­lems. 
Chang’s vision is of easy-to­operate, handheld devices that can rapidly detect such things as pathogens in blood, toxins in food and water, and even track invasive species as they threat­en crops and ecosystems. It is a vision in which the power of a modern research lab is concen­trated into a smartphone-sized tool that can be used to diag­nose disease as easily in a remote village as it can in a city hospital. 
And it is a vision informed by a life journey that stretches from Southeast Asia to South Bend.“I have seen third world poverty firsthand,” says Chang. “I have also seen what malaria can do, as well as polio. Typhoid, TB and even cholera were always part of life. After I established myself academical­ly, I decided I should do some­thing that can impact human society. Rapid point-of-care diagnostics for the developing world happened to be some­thing I can contribute to and I seized the opportunity.” 
Chang was born in Taiwan, but moved several times as the family followed the career path of his father, a biochemist. 
“Upon arriving in Singapore,” recounts Chang, “we found that our new home was without electricity or running water. We were relatively well off and I do not remember life being partic­ularly hard, but we had an out­house in the yard. Bathing for me was going to the water pump in the yard and dousing myself there. Nights were spent listening to a transistor radio around a kerosene lamp, and going to school meant squeez­ing into a taxi with about 10 other kids. This lasted 3 years until we went to Malaysia.” 
Chang started high school in Kuala Lumpur, but as a Chinese foreigner he was prevented by Malaysian policies at the time from becoming a citizen or attending college. 
His prospects changed when he met Sam and Dodo Standring, math and science teachers from California. They were amazed by the young man’s sense of humor, athletic ability, and intelligence, partic­ularly his facility with chem­istry. By promising to serve as his guardians they convinced Chang’s parents to let him come back to the U.S. for his senior year of high school. 
As a student (and new English speaker) at Troy High School in Fullerton, Calif., Chang won a number of aca­demic awards. In one case, he collaborated with a Cal State professor on a project that highlighted his math abilities, and this brought him to the attention of the California Institute of Technology. Caltech offered him a work-study schol­arship, and he supported him­self by working 10 to 20 hours a week as both a computer pro­grammer and food service employee, and by handling odd jobs. 
Despite these challenges, Dodo Standring says that it was his work ethic, instilled in him by his mother, that enabled Chang to graduate from Caltech and earn a Ph.D at Princeton by the time he was 24. 
After several teaching stints around the U.S., Chang and his wife, Mei-Chi Shaw, a professor of mathematics, both found a home at Notre Dame. 
Here, he expanded his research, served as chair of the department, developed several patents on microfluidic processes, wrote a definitive textbook on the field, started a leading journal, and founded the Center for Microfluidics and Medical Diagnostics. 
One of the overarching goals throughout his career has been to forge multidisciplinary col­laborations focused on the bio­medical applications of 


Lecture examines works of Percy 

By LAUREN KELLY 
News Writer 
Dr. John O’Callaghan, asso­ciate professor of philosophy at Notre Dame, discussed the life and literature of author Walker Percy in a lecture Tuesday. 
The talk was part of the Catholic Culture Literature Series: Strangers in a Strange Land, run by the Center for Ethics and Culture. The four-part series centers around four Catholic-American authors and the contributions they have made to Catholic literature. 
A recurrent theme in Percy’s works was his feeling that many people knew “how to be in the world and not of it,” O’Callaghan said. 
Percy’s own childhood was quite traumatic, and it is sur­prising he was able to step outside this viewpoint, he said. 
Born in southern Alabama, Percy did not convert to Catholicism until his adult years. At the age of 12, his father committed suicide and not long after, he lost his mother in a car accident, O’Callaghan said. 
He said these events had a profound affect on Percy and influenced many of his writ­ings. He is well known for works such as “The Moviegoer” and “The Thanatos Syndrome.” 
O’Callaghan discussed the fact that this Catholic author touches on many subjects, including racism and class. 
Percy’s moral sense is visi­ble in his outrage “at the cross burning of a Roman Catholic Archbishop of New Orleans who said that segre­gation was a sin,” Callaghan said. 
Percy goes farther as to criticize the stoicism of many of his friends and relatives who allowed this to occur, he said. 
O’Callaghan said this por­trayal of ethical strength caused him to reflect on his own education in a Catholic school, questioning why he never read Percy as a part of his curriculum. 
He said one friend told him Catholic schooling was “all about works and little about faith,” which caused him to ask, “are we any better now?” 
It is clear after this lecture that whatever Percy was dis­cussing, it was always done with comedy, O’Callaghan said. 
He said he had a “charac­teristic humor sly beyond belief,” which gave him a “more universal appeal than just another southern writer.” 
Callaghan said faith is not something that can be made up, but must be experienced. 
“We do not produce reli­gious experience,” O’Callaghan said. “[The] sacred comes to us as a kind of message.” 
Contact Lauren Kelly at lkelly3@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 15, 2010 Wednesday, September 15, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 



SMC hosts abroad returnees to help readjust 
Center for Women’s Intercultural Leadership holds gathering for students coming back from semesters in exchange programs 
ment concerns and business 

By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
benefits of study abroad, the 
News Writer 
event also stressed the stu­
dent view of study abroad. 

Saint Mary’s Center for Participants were encouraged Women’s Intercultural to share their stories and Leadership (CWIL) hosted a their readjustment struggles. welcome back event Tuesday Abby Altman, a Saint Mary’s with the aim of helping study junior who studied in Austria, abroad students readjust to discussed the United States life back home. customs she had forgotten. 
At the event, CWIL staff “In Austria, it was normal members discussed the read-to pay for using a public rest­justment phase that most room. Then, when I was back study abroad returnees face, in the United States, I remem­and they offered suggestions ber being in the airport and as to how the process could seeing water fountains out in run more smoothly. the open and thinking, 
“Keep in touch with your ‘Bathrooms are free!’” friends in your host country,” Other students shared sto-Alice Siqin Yang, assistant ries of growth and realiza­director of Global Education, tion. One student mentioned said. “In addition, join clubs an experience in China where that will help you continue she discussed the meaning of your cultural learning experi-love in American culture and ence.” another shared her learning 
Yang discussed many other experience of having her suggestions, and Maureen credit card stolen in Rome. Baska, a representative from No matter the circum ­the Career Crossings Office, stance, all the girls said they discussed ways to market the learned and grew from their study abroad experience to experiences. However, they potential employers. still realize the troubles of re­
“Your abroad experience adjusting. shows you have acquired cer-Maggie LeMay, a junior although readjusting is hard, abroad.” If I can survive South Africa, I tain skills such as independ-returnee from Rome said it is still easy to see the bene-Wojtowicz also said how she can survive any city.” ence, maturity, intellectual returning is almost like going fits of studying in a different had changed. Numerous study abroad and cultural curiosity and to college for the first time all country. “Study abroad does make programs were represented adaptability that will stand over again. “I was the only one of my you more independent, ” at the event, including pro-out to potential employers,” “I feel like I’ve had a third circle of friends who studied Wojtowicz said. “I would grams located in China, Baska said. “Also, study freshman year; things have abroad. Even though I spent highly suggest it to anyone Rome, Ireland, South Africa abroad helps some students changed,” LeMay said. nine months away from my contemplating a study abroad and Austria. develop language skills that Saint Mary’s senior and Saint Mary’s friends, it was program. You create your are useful.” returnee from South Africa, still nice to see that we all own world and gain an idea Contact Caitlin Housley at 
In addition to the readjust-Karolyn Wojtowicz said still get together after study of life outside of Saint Mary’s. chousl01@saintmarys.edu 


COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 



Group discusses pep rally, Army football weekend 
dents and the alumni. 

By JAMES CAMERON 
“They love the idea of a
News Writer 
dorm alumni representative 
and also finding a better way 

At the Council of for students to get in touch Representatives (COR) meeting with them,” Soler said. Tuesday, talk centered on “They’re interested in what’s feedback from last week’s pep going on on campus and want rally’s new format. to be involved.” 
Members also discussed stu-Soler said the upcoming sale dent government’s presenta-of student tickets to the Notre tion to the Alumni Association, Dame vs. Army game at the logistics of students Yankee Stadium in New York attending the Army game and City will be for sale online updates on the situation with Sept. 26 at 1 p.m. police and the community. Six hundred tickets will be 
The response to the pep rally available on a first come, first was overall extremely positive, served basis, and students with only a few minor prob-must be full-time Notre Dame lems reported, members said. students to be eligible. 
“I got there a little late and The game weekend will had some trouble actually include mass at St. Patrick’s finding the student section,” and a pep rally at Lincoln Kate Clitheroe, Class of 2011 Center, and the band will be president, said. “I felt a little playing in Central Park, Soler excluded as an off-campus said. senior.” This coming weekend has 
Catherine Soler, student been designated as the official body president, said this was a kickoff for the administration’s result of the redefined student beND campaign. section with a single entrance, “This weekend we have four which is meant to go along events that all tie together with the new student with a similar purpose” Soler walkover. said. 
Congestion around the stu-On Friday at 5:30 p.m., there dent section and difficulty will be a “Welcome Back to 3:30 p.m. about their rights as part of not like it was in the beginning hearing the band were also Picnic” on North Quad. “It’s just a chance to see beND. of the year,” Soler said. mentioned as possibly needing “You can meet families and what’s going on at Eddy Street The two other events of the “Administration is still attention. kids in the community, there’s Commons,” Soler said. “There weekend will be a presenta-addressing it next week we 
Last Thursday’s presentation free food, and they’re always will be an opportunity for stu-tion by lawyer C.L. Lindsay on have a meeting with excise by Soler to the Alumni looking for volunteers,” Soler dents to give feedback also.” safe partying Sunday and a police and another with SBPD. Association offered a chance said. While arrests have forum featuring representa-Everyone is still working on it for student government to The following Saturday, stu-decreased in recent weekends, tives from NDSP and ResLife at various levels.” communicate possible dent government will be co-student government is still pri-Monday. improvements in the function-sponsoring a block party at oritizing student-police rela-“It was a relatively quiet Contact James Cameron at al relationship between stu-Eddy Street Commons from 2 tions and educating students weekend, a few incidences but jcamero3@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 15, 2010 

Safety 
continued from page 1 
tain his position with Game Day Operations. 
“I think it’s a very positive move for everybody. It seems to make good sense to bring them all under one roof,” he said. 
The restructuring will not change the way departments run, but will improve com­munication and coordination between departments, Seamon said. 
“When they’ re aligned together and we’re meeting continuously together it will just allow us to know how we can effectively best serve the community,” he said. 
A task force created in October to evaluate the University’s current system and research effective sys­tems at other universities recommended the change. 
“By positioning these three departments into one collab­
orative unit, an already world -class public safety organization at the University will be even better,” Executive Vice President John Affleck -Graves, who headed the task force, said in a press release. “The task force members found that bringing police and fire under the same leadership is increasingly the standard in higher education.” 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) is currently part of the Office of Student Affairs. Fr. Tom Doyle, vice president for Student Affairs, said mov­ing NDSP to another office will be part of an overall restructuring within his divi­sion. 
“Now I just sort of need to take a little bit of time and do some assessment,” he said. 
The Notre Dame Fire Department and Risk Management and Safety Department will move from the Office of Business Operations. 
The Risk Management and Safety Department handles preventative measures to maintain safety on campus, such as insurance or making sure labs are safe. 
“They work very closely with both security and fire. It makes all the sense in the world for those three to be there,” Seamon said. 
Seamon said he looks for­ward to working with Student Affairs and Business Operations through the tran­sition period and beyond. 
“I’m excited to be working with them,” he said. “There will be close association all the way through the whole process.” 
The Office of Campus Safety will be located in the Main Building, Seamon said. 
Seamon graduated from Notre Dame with a bachelor’s and master’s degree in busi­ness. 
He previously served as executive assistant to Affleck -Graves, executive assistant to the vice president for Finance and assistant to the vice president for Business Operations. 


Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


Wednesday, September 15, 2010 The Observer  NEWS page 7 
NBC 
continued from page 1 
technology to aid field med­ical workers with diag ­noses. The commercial fea­tures the research being done at Notre Dame and the faculty who are spearhead­ing the research campaign, including Dr. Chia Chang of the College of Engineering. 
The commercial also attempts to convey why the work is being done and why such work is important to a student or faculty member doing research at Notre Dame, Woodward said. 
“First rate medical care is a fundamental right for every person. Our hope is that our technology can make this a reality for every­one,” Chang said. 
Woodward said Chang ’s story is only one of many interesting stories happening on campus. 
“Notre Dame is full of amazing stories — incredible things our faculty and stu­dents are doing,” Woodward said. “To me it’s about why they are doing it ... We want them to say this seems exactly what Notre Dame ought to be doing. It is so important that Notre Dame does this kind of work and it seems in line with their character.’” 
The commercial ends with Chang saying: “Fighting for innovative health care, we are the Fighting Irish.” 


Contact Nora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 


Arrests 
continued from page 1 
uates participated in the student walkover and the rally, and Game Day Operations gave away 2,500 thundersticks to members of the student body. 
Seamon said the tunnel into the Stadium was open to the public again Friday, and more than 4,200 fans entered through the gates to see the field. 
Saturday’s crowd general­ly arrived later because of rain earlier in the day, but the rivalry still brought about 10,000 more fans to campus than the Purdue game the previous week­end, he said. 
“The numbers were off the charts,” Seamon said. “Everyone is excited about Coach Kelly and the team, and we really want to capi­talize on that excitement.” 
Pedal cabs and golf carts provided campus trans ­portation for fans again Saturday. Due to rain, the pedal cabs were not avail­able Saturday morning but ran over 240 rides during the afternoon, and fans are taking advantage of the golf carts as well, Seamon said. 
“We did about 1,100 golf cart rides Friday and Saturday,” Seamon said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 




Official poverty number may be misleading 
Special to The Observer 
On Thursday, the U.S. Census Bureau will release its annual official poverty report for 2009. Based on the rise in unemployment for the year, the number of Americans defined as poor is expected to increase by 2 to 3 percentage points — the largest year-to­year increase of the past 50 years. 
Though the statistics are grim — potentially indicating that one in seven people were poor in 2009 — they fail to reflect the significant gains in well-being over a longer peri­od, according to University of Notre Dame economist James Sullivan, who researches the consumption, saving and bor­rowing behavior of poor households and how welfare and tax policies impact the poor. 
“These numbers tell us that this severe recession is taking a particularly hard toll on those on the bottom rung of the income ladder, and that we’ve had little success in jump starting the economy, but there is considerable evidence that most demographic groups are better off today than they were 20 years ago,” said Sullivan. 
A different measure of poverty that’s based on con­sumption, rather than income, would not only measure pover­ty more accurately, but would lead to a better understanding of the effects of policy and would help lawmakers craft policies to better serve the nation’s poorest, according to Sullivan. 
Using the consumption-based measure, Sullivan explains, data shows that poverty has fallen by more than 4.5 per­centage points over the past two decades. Since 1989, median consumption has risen about 7 percent, and consump­tion for poor families has risen faster than consumption for the middle class. 
“Over the past four decades, there has been real progress in the war on poverty that the official measure misses: first, the Census doesn’t count the benefits of anti-poverty pro­grams, such as the earned income tax credit (EITC), Medicaid, food stamps and housing subsidies, which have expanded over the past 40 years. The EITC alone provid­ed more than $40 billion annu­ally to the working poor,” Sullivan said. 



California explosion kills four, destroys 40 homes 
and firefighters who responded Electric Co. gas transmission line to the explosion, which claimed to rupture and blow a section of at least four lives and destroyed 30-inch pipe out of the ground. nearly 40 homes, acted despite The NTSB removed parts of the dangers: Some were fighting that pipe and shipped it to a lab for a neighborhood they grew up where it will be tested. Officials in, the homes of friends and could not say how long it will streets where children played. take the agency to release the 
“I saw smoke and flames, and I test results, which could show if knew I had to go,” said South San corrosion or some other factor Francisco police Detective Ken caused the rupture. Chetcuti, who grew up in the Investigators were also con-area. “I was thinking to myself structing a timeline of the inci­that I knew a lot of people in that dent and were looking into why it neighborhood.” took PG&E crews nearly two 
Authorities said Tuesday that hours to shut off the gas, allow-three people remained missing, ing it to fuel the flames. The com-all of whom lived at the same pany has said it took time to address. About 10 investigators manually turn the valves for the were working to locate them, pipes. said San Bruno police Chief Neil At a town hall meeting Monday Talford. night, Democratic Rep. Jackie 
“It’s forensic work with the Speier questioned if automatic coroner’s office to identify any shutoff valves were necessary. remains, as well as locating any Hart noted that the NTSB had individuals who may still be out made recommendations to PG&E there,” he said. following a 1981 gas line rupture 
The San Mateo County coroner in downtown San Francisco, and identified Elizabeth Torres, 81, that investigators would check if who lived just yards from the the company had complied with source of the explosion, as one of those recommendations, which the people killed. Her two daugh-included adequate training for ters and son-in-law were serious-emergencies. ly injured and remained hospital-“We will be looking at how 
Capt. Bill Forester recalled we discovered there was no ized with burn injuries, according quickly and effectively they 

Associated Press 
Tuesday. “I breathed a sigh of water.” to the woman’s grandson, Frank responded, and that’s one of the 

SAN BRUNO, Calif. — It took relief when I saw it was not an While residents helped crews Torres. reasons the timeline is so impor­almost a half-hour to determine airplane — there would have drag hoses from nearly 4,000 feet Also killed were Jessica tant to us,” Hart said. that the massive fireball consum-been more victims.” away to supply water, other first-Morales, 20, Jacqueline Greig, In Washington, D.C., ing a San Francisco suburb was-What turned out to be a gas responders, including South San 44, and her daughter, Janessa, Transportation Secretary Ray n’t a plane crash. line rupture last Thursday fueled Francisco police Lt. Ron Carlino, 13. LaHood announced the allocation 
First-responders rushing a roaring blaze so intense that it pushed into smoke-filled homes Meanwhile, federal investiga-of $5.9 million Tuesday for 17 against the fleeing crowds initial-cracked windshields of the clos-to check for survivors. Searing tors said they wrapped up their research projects to improve ly believed a jetliner from nearby est fire engines and sent four heat prevented them from getting on-site probe and had moved on pipeline safety. San Francisco International firefighters to the hospital for too close to the heart of the fire. to interviewing witnesses of the The awards will pay for the Airport had gone down in the smoke inhalation. The blast also “We were left helpless,” Carlino blast. development of research projects San Bruno neighborhood or that broke a water main, leaving all said. “The wall of fire was Christopher Hart, vice chair-that address the detection, pre­terrorists had struck — or both. hydrants in the area dry. incredibly, intensely hot. We were man of the National vention and characterization of 
“I was concerned about a sec-“It was a sinking feeling,” helpless knowing there were peo-Transportation Safety Board, said pipeline leaks and pipeline con­ondary explosion. I didn’t know Forester said. “We needed mas-ple we couldn’t get to.” investigators still don’t know struction quality, as well as alter-what we had,” San Bruno Fire sive water for this thing — and Many of the 400 police officers what caused the Pacific Gas & native fuels transportation. 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 

page 8 Wednesday, September 15, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

That girl from math class 
Notre Dame football is that girl. You know, the one who sits next to you in math class. Seemingly perfect in every way, you never thought you stood a chance with her. But you were okay with that. Then she Mike Todisco starts batting her eye-lashes 
Sports W ire 
at you and 
Editor 

laughing at your jokes. Could this be the one? Jumping out of your skin with excitement, you ask her out. But wait, she already has a boyfriend at Michigan (or USC or Purdue). You’re heartbroken. You see, it wouldn’t have been so bad if she hadn’t given you hope. What a tease. 
This is not simply a reactionary rant about what I saw on the field Saturday. This is the story line with every Notre Dame team in my recol­lection. The metaphor applies in every conceivable way, from a single game of devastation to a full season of frustration. Notre Dame doesn’t just lose, that wouldn’t be nearly so bad. Ask any Detroit Lions fan if incessant defeat is all that gut wrenching. No, it’s the excitement that makes it so demoralizing. Notre Dame gets your heart racing to the point where you think it will give out, then they rip it out, and stomp on it for good measure. 
Need proof? Look at the entirety of the 2009 season. Heading into the USC game, a perfect confluence of events propelled excitement on cam­pus to unprecedented levels. We believed. Jimmy, Golden and Charlie would propel our program back to where it needed to be; surely, Notre Dame will rise again. With an eerie “blue-gray October sky” looming over Notre Dame Stadium that Saturday, it seemed like fate that Notre Dame would win. A furious comeback fueled our hopes. Then Jimmy’s pass slipped through the hands of Duval Kamara, and with it went our sea­son. We lost. Even the leprechaun cried. 
But surely in the Kelly era, things would be different. Starting with a business-like win against Purdue, it seemed that the days of perpetual late game drama were over; last Saturday proved otherwise. Our quarterback mysteriously lost sight in his right eye, and we trailed by 14 points early. I could’ve dealt with a loss, even a thorough thumping. But we battled back and seized the lead. For a minute or two in Notre Dame Stadium, the echoes were awoken. Then “Shoelace” ran, passed and even kicked his way past the Irish. It was just cruel, toying with our emo­tions like that. 
What is there to be done? Well, I could stop being a fan; retire my “Shirt,” hang up my hat and stop investing myself so completely each and every autumnal Saturday. But that’s hardly an option at all. The disappointment has become part of my identity as a Notre Dame fan, an identity I wouldn’t trade for any­thing. So sure, while she may have turned you down, can you honestly say you didn’t enjoy the time you spent chasing that girl from math class? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mike Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 
The price of knowledge 
While discussing wasteful spending during the 2008 presidential campaign, Sarah Palin remarked that, “sometimes these projects have little or nothing to do with the public good, things like fruit fly research in Paris.” To some, this may Edward A. indeed seem like Larkin government 
Scientifc 
largesse at its worst. However, N otation while it may have scored a few politi­cal points, it reflects a sad misunder­standing of the underlying science. Palin doesn’t reflect upon the fact that flies have much of the same genetic makeup as humans, acknowledge the increasingly multinational nature of science, or point out that society is fortunate that we har­vest and study mutant flies rather than human children. However, her point tan­gentially touches upon a more nuanced issue: what kind of research should the public fund? 
Most people would probably say that scientific knowledge is good for its own sake. This sentiment, however, doesn’t work quite so neatly on a national scale, with limited resources and competing priorities. Tangible services to the public and relatively low tax rates are both pri­oritized by politicians over basic science research. When the government does fund research, taxpayers expect bang for their buck. This is the reason that research that is putatively oriented towards medical advances is more gener­ously funded than basic research. 
Many scientists use this prioritization of medically oriented research to game the system. When applying for grants to the National Institutes of Health (NHI), which awards the lion’s share of public grant money, they emphasize connec­tions, oftentimes tenuous, between their 
research and major diseases in their 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
grant applications. Once they get the grant money, that’s often the last that is heard about the disease from their lab. Many scientific papers in leading journals end with a vague assertion of better ther­apies without any sort of specificity what­soever. Is this fair to us? The question of research funding — especially disease — oriented research versus purely basic sci­ence — is certain to intensify in the upcoming years as the federal budget deficit is inevitably dealt with. 
The situation, at first glance, seems to be in need of reform. Some would prefer an across the board increase in basic research, regardless of medical applica­tions. They argue that a more intimate knowledge of fundamental processes, regardless of their immediate effects, will eventually lead to better medicine. Putting such knowledge in the hands of doctors, drug companies, engineers, and other scientists will engender more effec­tive research and allow others to apply it in medical contexts. Academia, they argue, has an important role in basic dis­covery, not necessarily its application. Many of the major advances in science come from the most basic research, and we would be naïve to think that we’ve advanced in our knowledge to the point that our current frameworks are fool­proof. 
Others think differently, asserting that advances in engineering, computer power, and basic biological knowledge have made it such that we don’t need to understand things more thoroughly; we should go about curing disease now. They argue that there’s more value in, for example, finding new strategies to make drugs work better rather than finding new proteins associated in cancer. Money should be funneled towards the screening of gigantic numbers of compounds to treat disease, even if we don’t understand the way they work. Biologists should work like engineers, seeking to create simplicity out of complexity. The logic of both positions is hard to deny. 
However, the right solution may actual­ly be to keep the status quo. When apply­ing for funding, scientists should be forced to think, even if cursorily, about the possible medical benefits of their research. Even if the study of disease does not directly motivate their work, this ensures that research does not stray far from the major telos of the NIH — to “enhance health, lengthen life, and reduce the burdens of illness”. While bio­medical knowledge has exploded, there is still a lot to learn about the way life works at the microscopic level — basic research is overwhelmingly necessary. Even if not directly linked to actually cur­ing disease, it will help inform drug dis­coverers, biological engineers, and com­puter scientists when they try to both model and attack diseases. That being said, we should be careful to foster the growth of the new fields that emerge from our sizable knowledge base, which seek to apply rather than understand. 
Medicine should be the overarching goal of biological research, especially when taxpayers foot the bill. That’s why they foot the bill — in the hope that they’ll be able to spend more precious moments with family members, to know that not all is lost when a loved one is diagnosed with a brutal disease. Knowing for the sake of knowledge, while certainly desirable in the abstract, doesn’t reflect the real-world fact that knowledge, like everything else, has a price tag. 
Edward A. Larkin is a senior with a double major in Biological Sciences and Classical Civilization. He can be reached at elarkin1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“There must be more to life than having everything.” 
Maurice Sendak 
U.S. author 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Dare to be yourself.” 
Andre Gide French author 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Wednesday, September 15, 2010 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

An unexpected news 
Three years ago one of my daughters who is in her 30s announced that she was expecting a baby although she wasn’t married. My wife and I were stunned. We have eight children and Rebekah is number four and nothing quite as dramatic had ever happened to the others. We immediately asked and was assured that she would proceed with the pregnancy to term. We explored the options, adop­tion or keeping the baby but decided that it was too early to make a decision. Fortunately, her boyfriend was very supportive even asking Rebekah to marry him. She wasn’t ready yet, one thing at a time. 
I told the news to one of my best friends at Notre Dame and we had numerous discussion about this. His advice to me was very revealing and extremely helpful. He said, Paul think of it from the perspec­tive of the baby. All the baby wants is to be born and to be fully taken care of. She (the baby) doesn’t care whether she is born to two parents or one very frightened mom. When a woman is pregnant our care and concern are almost exclusively with her almost forgetting about the baby. When my friend said that to look at it from the baby’s per­spective my thinking completely changed. I immedi­ately thought of my yet to be born grandchild and all her possibilities. Her incredible potential to grow up to be whatever the Lord wants her to be. Suddenly I saw Rebekah in a new light, now it is not only Rebekah but Rebekah and the baby. 
I am writing this to those of you who may be expecting a child out of wedlock. Please look at it from the baby’s perspective. Whether you will keep the child or give him or her out for adoption is up to you. But to give birth to the baby is yours and yours alone to do and give. 
Now Bethany is two and a half years old, very precocious in everything that she says and does, a truly wonderful child. Also Ryan, Bethany’s dad married Rebekah a year and a half ago in a real joyful and beautiful ceremony. They are expecting their second child. 
Paul Go 
staff HPC Engineer Sept. 14 

Pure intimidation 
I’m very disappointed after reading all the negative responses to Matthew Keenan’s obviously well thought out and intimidating idea. Matthew’s is quite possibly the best idea I’ve ever heard, except in the fact that he didn’t go far enough with it. 
If the intimidating sound of “Africa” doesn’t work, we should begin to accompany it with pan flutes, just like Toto does in the actual song. I can think of nothing more menacing than the sound of pan flutes, which is why I’ve always been shocked that so many baseball teams use AC/DC and metal as intro music for relievers instead of Toto. 
Also, to really scare the opponents, we should sing “Kumbayah,” “It’s Raining Men,” “Barbie Girl,” and “Can You Feel the Love Tonight” on first, second, third and fourth downs, respectively, whenever the other team enters our red zone. I’m fully confident that this would make it impossible for any quarterback to call any audi­bles. The offensive line would be false starting all over the place, and before we knew it, Gary Gray or Harrison Smith would be running a pick-6 towards the other end zone. In fact, I bet that our offense would never even touch the field. We would have an endless cycle of kickoff, sing, turnover, repeat. 
Matthew Keenan, you referenced Rocket Ismail in your letter, but I think that his motivational tactics are inferior to yours. In fact, I propose that you start leading singa­longs at all pep rallies and in the locker room prior to all games. National Championship here we come. 
Will Streit 
sophomore Alumni Hall Sept. 14 
UWIRE 
Talking ‘bout my generation of slackers 
Do people in their 20s take too long to grow up? Are we slackers, wandering aimlessly through life without purpose? Are we stalling and postponing milestones associated with adulthood, milestones like getting married and having children? According to the U.S. Census Bureau, Americans are get-Alexandra Katz ting married later in life than they did in the past. But is Columbia this simply because we are 
Daily
putting it off? No, no, no, and 
Sp ctator 
no. I am in my 20s and strongly resent being told that I’m not working hard enough. We are not putting off adulthood. In the race to grow up, the finish line is moving farther and farther away. Milestones that commonly signal adulthood, such as financial stability, a secure job and home ownership are becoming more difficult to attain, which is drawing out the process of growing up. 
The New York Times Magazine recently ran a 10­page spread discussing the state of 20-somethings. In this piece, Robin Marantz Henig overviews why it takes this long for people in their 20s to reach what is commonly defined as “adulthood.” Henig draws on the work of Jeffrey Jensen Arnett, a Clark University psychology professor, whose extensive research has led him to label the 20s lifestage as “emerging adulthood.” Henig then poses the following question: “Is emerging adult­hood a rich and varied period for self-discovery, as Arnett says it is? Or is it just another term for self-indulgence?” 
Of course, using “self-indulgence” when referring to young adults immediately conjures condescend­ing images of selfish children gallivanting on an exploratory journey to “self-awareness.” But this isn’t a fair characterization at all. What about all of the 20-somethings who are eager to jump into “adulthood,” but who find themselves facing aug­mented hurdles to securing a job, attaining finan­cial security, and living independently? 
While our grandparents’ generation could often begin a career straight out of high school, a bache­lor’s degree and even graduate degrees are now commonly required for many professions. With more and more years added on to “studenthood,” 20-somethings in school often feel like they are in limbo — no longer a child, but not quite in the real world. Furthermore, the logical next step after graduation is to work. What happens when there simply are no jobs available? 
As we have witnessed since the economic col­lapse, the oh-so-lucky graduates of the classes of 2008 and 2009 have … struggled. Some who could-n’t find jobs revised their plans and chose to attend graduate school right away. Others switched gears, deciding to travel or taking an unpaid internship with the hopes of a paid job offer in the near future. More than ever, 20-somethings are grap­pling with low self-esteem and anxiety due to unemployment or an arduous, seemingly endless, job search. Without the assurance of a paycheck, it is impossible to pay the rent, to afford a car, or to buy health insurance — all traditional indicators of independence and adulthood. 
In some respects, society is beginning to respond to the challenges we face when transitioning to adulthood. This year’s health care reform bill included a provision to allow young adults to stay on their parents’ health care plans until age 26. The Obama administration assures us that this will play a crucial role in covering one out of three young adults who are now uninsured. Still, much work remains to be done. An important next step is to work on making education more affordable, so that, as tuition fees continue to rise, students may prevent the accumulation of even more stu­dent loans. Programs that provide affordable hous­ing for young adults should be created, and the minimum wage must be raised to a realistic and livable amount. 
It’s not that we are self-indulgent. It’s that the cost of admission to adulthood is much greater than it once was. It’s not that we want to be in school until our late 20s. It’s because jobs that were once attainable with a college degree now require additional education. It’s not that we want to move back into our parents’ homes. It’s that we need to save money in order to afford ever-increas­ing housing costs. This isn’t a question of whether or not we want to remain “children” for longer. Our generation isn’t looking for a longer childhood 
— we are struggling to overcome the barriers to adulthood. 
This column first appeared in the Sept. 13 edi­tion of Columbia Daily Spectator, the daily publica­tion serving the University of Kentucky. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 
Scen e

page 10 Wednesday, September 15, 2010 

Photos courtesy of “The Dome” 1985 SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic Kroger advertisement reproduced at groceteria.com 
The Observer 
Scen e

Wednesday, September 15, 2010 page 11 
Cotton Underground 
A sampling of less-than-official alternatives to The Shirt 
Every year, Irish sports fans shill out$15 for The Shirt. A sizable chunk of the proceeds goes to charity funds forNotre Dame students who have suffered catastrophic illness or needfinancial assistance for campus activi­ties. 
But that doesn’t mean The Shirt has to be the only option for spirit wear.Here are a few of the other messagetees found on campus — some a littleless politically correct than “We Arethe Fighting Irish.” 

Where you can get it: briankellyismyhomeboy.com 
Green, gold and gangsta. 
Modeled by David Huff, one of the shirt’s marketers 


Do you have a subversive shirt for sale, or do you have one you wear with pride and want to show off for Scene? 
Email jgamble@nd.edu or 
visit the Observer Scene 
page on Facebook. 

Where you can get it: In the 2009 football season 
Full of rivalry hatred but still rated PG. 
Modeled by Marti McGraw 

Photos by Adriana Pratt 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesay, September 15, 2010 
NFL 

Packers’ Grant out for season with right ankle injury 
Geen Bay will have to rely on backups Brandon Jackson and John Kuhn to carry the load without starter 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE — Green Bay Packers running back Ryan Grant is out for the season with a right ankle injury, a sig­nificant blow to the team after he piled up 1,200 yards in each of the past two seasons. 
The Packers also placed for­mer first-round pick Justin Harrell on injured reserve and signed running back Dimitri Nance and defensive end Jarius Wynn to fill their spots on the roster headed into Sunday’s home game against Buffalo. 
“When you lose a running back of Ryan’s caliber, it’s a big loss, but this is something we have to deal with and move forward from as a team,” gen­eral manager Ted Thompson said in a statement. “Our med­ical people will do a great job with Justin and Ryan, and we expect each to make a full recovery from their injuries.” 
Grant was hurt in the second quarter of Green Bay’s 27-20 win at Philadelphia on Sunday. Packers coach Mike McCarthy said a day later that Grant’s injury involved ligament dam­age. 
More tests had been sched­uled for Tuesday, and the results weren’t encouraging enough to try to bring Grant back this season. Multiple reports say ankle surgery could keep Grant sidelined for up to three months. 
“Guess everyone has heard the news,” Grant posted on his Twitter account. “Frustrating, disappointing, all the normal emotions.” 
Grant, who is in the third year of a four-year contract, was wearing a protective walking boot on his right foot after the injury and said after Sunday’s game that his ankle was only sprained and not bro­ken. On Tuesday, he said there was a chance he could return this season after surgery, but it would have been very late and put the Packers in a bind with their roster moving forward. 
“It was more severe than ini­tially thought during game,” Grant tweeted. “But I just have to move forward and get it right. Anyone who knows me understands that my spirits WILL stay high.” 
The injuries come at two of the thinnest positions for the Packers, who have been tabbed as a favorite to reach the Super Bowl. 
The Packers had only back­up running back Brandon Jackson and fullback John Kuhn on the roster as replace­ments for Grant before signing Nance. 
Jackson, a second-round pick out of Nebraska in 2007, played well in Grant’s absence on Sunday. He rushed for 63 yards on 18 carries and caught two passes. Kuhn added a touchdown in the third quarter on Sunday. Jackson knew he would be the starter for at least a week on Monday, but didn’t know the extent of Grant’s injury. 
“I started in ‘07, and (my family) just kept telling me, be patient, be patient, your time is coming. And now that it’s here, I know my wife is just excited,” Jackson said. “I’m telling her, let’s just play the game. Let’s continue to do what we did before I was the starter. Everything’s going to work out.” 

Nance, who was signed off the Atlanta Falcons‘ practice squad, played four years at Arizona State, running for 1,934 yards and 19 touch­downs. 
Harrell hurt his left knee in Sunday’s victory at Philadelphia, yet another set­back for the team’s first-round pick in the 2007 draft who has played in only 13 regular sea­son games in his first three years after a series of back problems. 
TENNIS 

Uncertainty surrounds Nadal’s Open future 
Associated Press, Nadal said he as can be. whether he is the type to think first Wimbledon championship, 
Associated Press 
does not yet consider himself He paused, then explained: “You back to this year’s Australian Open earned with a victory over Federer 

NEW YORK — Rafael Nadal among the best tennis players in never know when this will start, — he retired from his quarterfinal in 2008’s “dramatic final,” as yawned and rubbed the sleep from history. No matter that he is only and when this will stop.” with a knee injury, the lone blem-Nadal called it; his gold medal his eyes. the seventh man to win each After playing in Federer’s shad-ish on his 25-1 Grand Slam record from the 2008 Beijing Olympics; 
Getting back to his hotel at 3:30 Grand Slam title. Or that only six ow for years, Nadal is now the one in 2010 — or forward to next his 2009 Australian Open title; 
a.m. 
Tuesday after a celebratory men finished with higher totals of to watch. year’s. Spain’s 2004 Davis Cup title. Then, dinner, then waking up at 7:30 major championships. As ATP chief executive Adam “No. I am very happy now (with) right when it seemed Nadal might 

a.m. 
for a media tour that included Here is as far as he was willing Helfant put it during the U.S. Open: what I did. I know how difficult it is very well keep going until he stops at “Today,” “Live with Regis to go Tuesday: “I know I am a little “Rafa is a rock star when he to win every tournament,” he said. would named every single thing & Kelly” and CNN, did not allow bit in the history of tennis now, comes out to play here.” “For sure, I am going try my best he’s won, he turned more contem­much time for rest — nor for con-winning this last tournament. But It is Nadal who is ranked No. 1. to be ready for Australia. But my plative. templating the significance of his I'm still 24, so we will see where I It is Nadal who has established first goal is try to finish this season Referring to the “very difficult” first U.S. Open championship and am when I finish my career.” his bona fides on all of tennis’ sur-playing better than ... other years second half of 2009 — which career Grand Slam. Indeed, Nadal insisted he cannot faces. at the end of the season.” included knee and abdominal 


“It’s difficult to stop and think,” be sure he will add to the Grand It is Nadal who has a chance to Give Nadal credit for consistency. injuries, the only French Open loss Nadal said, a little more than 12 Slam singles trophies he already finish off a Rafa Slam by winning He’s always talking about how of his career, his withdrawal from hours after finishing his four-set has earned — five at the French the Australian Open in January. He important it is to him that he keeps Wimbledon, and his parents sepa­victory over Novak Djokovic in the Open, two at Wimbledon, and one would be the first man with four improving. ration — Nadal spoke about 
U.S. Open final for a third consecu-each at the Australian Open and major titles in a row since Rod Asked which of his many accom-rebounding so strongly. tive major title, ninth overall. U.S. Open — let alone challenge Laver pulled off a true Grand Slam plishments makes him proudest, “I wanted a lot to be back,” he “Maybe on the plane and after, Roger Federer’s record of 16. by going 4 for 4 in 1969. Nadal began by mentioning his said. “And now, I am better. I did when I get home, it will be easier.” “I don’t know if I’m going to win Nadal threw his head back and first French Open title, in 2005; better than before. That's very 
In an interview with The another one,” Nadal said., earnest laughed when asked Tuesday then his second, the next year; his huge.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
If you or someone you care about “I swear to God, I couldn't love a “Ma, can we get some meatloaf!” has been sexually assaulted, we human baby as much as I love thisWANTED FOR RENT PERSONAL can help. For more information, visit comb.” 

Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu. - Blades of Glory - Wedding Crashers 

——————————————— ——————————————— Join a fun, fast growing co called Apartments for Rent Near Airport, UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't ———————————————-InvisibleSHIELD by ZAGG. on Busline go it alone. Notre Dame has many Hey there, beef. "Marriage is like a tense, unfunny “Your honor your honor.” 
resources in place to assist you. If ——————————————— version of Everybody Loves 

you or someone you love needs OMG Eileen! I can’t believe you’re Raymond, only it doesn't last 22 Sales associate wanted for kiosk in 1 Bdr. $600 and 2 Bdr. $725 confidential support or assistance, finally 21. Hope it was worth the minutes. It lasts forever." the mall. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 wait, sooo excited to celebrate with 
or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more you. London reunion ASAP! - Caddyshack 

All Util. Included Call Mike 574-250-information, visit ND's website at: - Knocked Up Call 317-287-4244 0191 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. <3 <3 KG ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Wednesday, September 15, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
MLB 

Braves fall to two games behind Phils with loss 
Diamondbacks’ rookie hurler Hudson shuts out Reds through eight; Dickey throws gem, Beltran knocks in three for Mets 
pitching or hitting, Hernandez 
Associated Press 
replied: “Both. I was lucky today. 

ATLANTA — It was just anoth-I like to hit. The double was a er game for Livan Hernandez. pitch down the middle and then I Not so for the Atlanta Braves. got a slider and hit it out.” 
Hernandez homered and limit-Jurrgens allowed nine hits, ed Atlanta to five hits in eight four runs, walked one and struck innings Tuesday night to help the out three in five innings. Washington Nationals to a 6-0 The Nationals added a run in win over the Braves, ending a the seventh when right fielder six-game losing streak. Jason Heyward dropped a fly by 
The Braves, however, fell two Dunn for a two-base error. Roger games behind first-place Bernadina drove in the run with Philadelphia in the NL East. The a sacrifice fly. Phillies beat Florida 2-1. Washington got its final run on 
Atlanta held a one-game lead a solo home run by Ian over San Francisco in the wild Desmond, his 10th, in the ninth card race. The Giants had a late off Scott Proctor. game against Los Angeles. “There’s not a whole lot to play 
Hernandez (10-11) walked for this late. To spoil it for them two, struck out six and hit a bat-feels good,” said Desmond. ter. Only one runner reached sec-Heyward reached base four ond. straight times against 
The 35-year-old right-hander Hernandez, drawing a pair of varied his pitches from a 61 mph walks, a hit by pitch and a single. curve in the second inning to Derrek Lee to nothing faster than Diamondbacks 3, Reds 1 an 85 mph fastball. He threw Arizona finally found the right 118 pitches, 75 strikes. combination to beat the NL 
“I just go out and do my job. I Central leaders — the kid and just try to beat somebody the catch. whether it’s against a playoff Rookie Daniel Hudson shut team or not. I felt good in the down the NL’s top offense for bullpen before the game and I eight innings, and right fielder had a good sinker, slider and Justin Upton made a game-end­curve ball,” said Hernandez. ing catch with the bases loaded 
“He had, honestly, perfect con-Tuesday night, saving the NL Central by putting up the best today. I fell behind some hitters final nine away games to avoid trol all night long,” said Atlanta Diamondbacks’ victory over the record in the majors during and had to throw strikes and matching the 1963 Mets for the manager Bobby Cox. Cincinnati Reds. August, going 19-8 while pulling they put the ball in play.” worst road record (17-64) in a 
“You really never know what’s Arizona beat the NL Central away from St. Louis. They fell to He was helped by the 162-game season. coming at you. It could be any-leaders for the first time in five 5-8 in September but maintained Diamondbacks’ tendency to Coming in, opponents had a thing from 60 mph to 85 mph,” games this season, taking it their seven-game lead over St. strike out. Arizona fanned 12 .320 average against Duke, and said Lee. down to the final pitch. Louis, which lost to the Cubs 7-2 times, the seventh time in the the soft-hitting Mets put on one 
Sean Burnett pitched a hitless Hudson (7-2) gave up four hits on Tuesday. last eight games that it’s had at of their best offensive displays of ninth for the Nationals. and fanned eight before leaving Arizona has struggled against least 12 strikeouts in a game. the season. 
Adam Dunn hit his 35th home with a 3-0 lead. Juan Gutierrez the Reds, dropping 13 of their Pirates manager John Russell run, a mammoth 455-foot shot let the Reds load the bases in the last 16 games. This time, their Mets 9, Pirates 1 is not sure if Duke will continue over the center field fence after ninth with two outs, then hit rookie starter got the better of For one night — albeit against to start for the Pirates this sea-Ryan Zimmerman singled in the Drew Stubb to force in a run. Cincinnati’s rookie starter. the pitiful Pittsburgh Pirates — son. Duke (7-14) has a 5.78 ERA second and Hernandez added a Ramon Hernandez followed with Hudson retired 14 of the last 15 R.A. Dickey, Carlos Beltran and and has given up 20 runs — 19 run-scoring double in the inning a liner toward the gap that Upton batters he faced. the New York Mets showed they earned — over his last four off Jair Jurrjens (7-6). snagged while running full-speed “Being able to get into a groove might be able to end this season starts. 
“Every game we lose right now and stretching as far as he could. has been great,” Hudson said. on a positive note. “We’ll consider what our is going to be frustrating, espe-“That was a Hall-of-Fame play “Right now, my confidence is Dickey took a three-hitter into options are,” Russell said. “I’m cially if the Phillies are winning. right there,” Reds manager high.” the ninth inning, Beltran had his sure he’s frustrated.” Every game we don’t win is going Dusty Baker said. “I didn’t think Arizona got the 23-year-old first three-RBI game in over a Beltran homered and hit a to be stressful,” said Jurrgens. he had a chance to catch it. That pitcher from the White Sox in the year and the Mets might have two-run double, driving in more 
“It’s a tight race. It’s going to shows the importance of defense trade for right-hander Edwin knocked Zach Duke out of the than two runs for the first time be tight. You’re not going to win right there. Defense saved the Jackson on July 30. Hudson was Pirates’ rotation with a victory since June 11, 2009. every game,” said Lee. game for them tonight.” the NL’s rookie of the month in Tuesday night. “It took me time to feel com-
Hernandez, hitting .115 enter-A night after they drew a sea-August, going 4-1 with a 1.85 “When you get some young fortable at the plate,” said ing the game, hit his solo home son-low 12,061 fans, the Reds ERA. The only loss came against guys and get somewhat healthy Beltran, who had offseason knee run in the fourth off Jurrjens. It sold 16,973 tickets for one of Cincinnati on Aug. 17 at Coors you feel like we can do some of surgery and was out until the was the 10th homer of his their pet promotion games — Field, where he struck out eight the things we did tonight,” Mets All-Star break. “I don’t feel like career. fans were allowed to bring dogs. in the first three innings but manager Jerry Manuel said. I’m great out there, but I feel like 
Asked if he were prouder of his The Reds took control of the dropped the game 6-2. “Carlos Beltran is getting his legs I’m having better chances now at 
“You’re seeing a kid who underneath him. Obviously (Jose) the plate.” knows how to pitch,” manager Reyes. And young guys coming in Evans followed up his game-Kirk Gibson said. and giving us a little energy — winning hit in the 10th inning 
When he left, the drama start-(Nick) Evans and (Ruben) Tejada Monday with a single and a mon­ed. — some good things can hap-strous home run in his first two 
Gutierrez let the Reds load the pen.” at-bats, and Tejada had a career-bases on a pair of hits and a Dickey’s tricky pitch — he high three hits to lift his average four-pitch walk to Jay Bruce with threw one knuckler at 57 mph — above .200. Tejada also started two outs. Gutierrez then hit was no match for the inexperi-two splendid double plays to Stubbs on the forearm, and fell enced Pirates. back Dickey. behind in the count to Pitching into the wind for the “He looks like he’s 14,” Reyes Hernandez. When the catcher hit first time this season, Dickey did-said of the 20-year-old Tejada. his liner toward the gap, he n’t allow an extra-base hit until “He can play this game, though.” thought it would fall for a bases-pinch-hitter Pedro Ciriaco tripled The Mets opened each of the clearing hit. to lead off the ninth. John first four innings with hits and 
“He’s very fast,” Hernandez Bowker’s grounder to shortstop scored all their runs. Reyes led said. “He got a good jump after I ended the shutout bid. The 35-off the first with single and hit it. He made a great, great year-old Dickey (11-6) finished scored on Angel Pagan’s single. play.” the five-hitter for the third com-Evans started it off in the second 
Besides his eight shutout plete game of his career. with a single and he scored on innings, Hudson also had a run-Dickey has gone from one of Pagan’s bases-loaded double. All scoring single off left-hander the first cuts in spring training to three runners scored on Pagan’s Travis Wood (5-3), who contin-a steady force in the rotation, hit when converted catcher Ryan ued his fade. Wood lasted only and he has earned Manuel and Doumit had trouble picking up five innings, giving up nine hits the coaches’ trust. the ball in right field for an error 
— eight of them singles. “They asked me if I wanted to to make it 4-0. The 23-year-old lefty has a finish, I said, ‘Absolutely,’ and Beltran homered leading off 
4.73 ERA in his last six starts. He that was it,” Dickey said. “I think the third. Evans followed two has failed to last more than five it’s been nice over the course of outs later with a drive that land-innings in four of his last five the season I’ve pitched in such a ed just to the left of the home run times out. way to earn that.” apple in straightaway center 
“I need to go deeper in ball-The Pirates lost their 57th road field, getting a buzz from the games,” Wood said. “I felt good game and must win three of their sparse and sleepy crowd. 



page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, September 15, 2010 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Oklahoma looks to start fast against Air Force 
Associated Press 
NORMAN, Okla. — Here’s a formula for victory for No. 7 Oklahoma: Receive the open­ing kickoff, go down and score, then never look back. 
It’s worked for the Sooners (2-0) in both games this sea­son, and it could be important this Saturday against Air Force and its clock-chewing ground game. The Falcons (2­0), who lead the nation with 423 yards rushing per game, had two drives that lasted more than 7 1/2 minutes in a 35-14 win last week against BYU. 
That ’s a full quarter of clock gone in two possessions. 
“They’re playing a style of game where they win and when they don’t win, for some reason it’s close,” Sooners offensive coordinator Kevin Wilson said Tuesday. “You know it from all the Oklahoma years (in the wish­bone), if you ever got on the wrong side and behind, it was hard to play a little bit of catch-up.” 
That hasn’t been an issue so far for Oklahoma, which has­n’t trailed in victories against Utah State and Florida State. The Sooners scored on their first drive in both games and built on the fast starts to lead by at least 20 in the second quarter. Each of the first four drives against the Seminoles resulted in touchdowns. 
“We just try to come out with as much energy as we can and start strong and fin­ish strong,” fullback Trey Millard said. “A big part of it is just getting that first drive and then working from there.” 
The Sooners are 26 -2 in their last 28 games they’ve scored a touchdown on their opening possession. Over that span, they’ re 25 -13 when they don’t. 
“That’s just coming out with a little bit of fire,” receiver Kenny Stills said. “We always talk about if we have the ball first and score first, that’s a good sign for us and we can continue to roll on that. You never want to go out there and have a quick three-and­out.” 
Wilson doesn’t script plays going into a game, but he’ll give his players an idea of what they’re likely to run. Against Florida State, he was able to get the offense click­ing and use the quick tempo that was a major weapon for the Sooners when 2008 Heisman Trophy winner Sam Bradford was at quarterback. 
His successor, Landry Jones, said that a series of short swing passes and screens helped to build his confidence early but also cap­italized on tendencies that coaches noticed while scout­ing Florida State. The Seminoles tended to leave receivers uncovered at the line, and Oklahoma took advantage by getting the ball out quickly and picking up yards after the catch. 
By halftime, they were up 34-7 and Jones had 321 of his 380 yards passing. 
“Whenever you jump out on a team, it helps your defense breathe a little bit and they can play a little bit more aggressive,” Jones said. 
Just because Air Force con­trolled the ball for nearly 37 minutes last week, Wilson said he doesn’t plan to go away from the fast style as long as it’s working. 
“To me, you’ve got to find ways to score, finish drives and get points on this team whether you’re doing that in fast or slow fashion,” Wilson said. 
Falling behind could be a recipe for disaster. The Falcons have outscored their first two opponents 55-0 in the second half, allowing a total of 132 yards after half­time. 
Air Force coach Troy Calhoun said the success is a result of his young players settling into a game over time and of his staff making the right adjustments. 
“They’re disciplined in how they play,” Sooners coach Bob Stoops said. “They play hard, they’ve got a lot of quickness to them and you can tell they’re very structured and understand what their assign­ments are.” 



Wednesday, September 15, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Florida receiver Rainey charged with stalking 


Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. — Florida receiver Chris Rainey was arrested Tuesday and charged with aggravated stalking, a third -degree felony, for allegedly sending a former girlfriend a threaten­
ing text message. 
The school announce any di scipli nary action against the 5-foot-9 jun­ior, but offensive coordi nator Steve Addazio said, “Chris Rainey is not a part of our team right now. That’s really all I have to say on that.” 
Rainey was released from the Alachua County Jail on 
did not 
“He never intended for no decisions 
on the case 
this to happen nor 
will be made 
would he ever hurt this 
this week. woman. He cares Rainey, from nearby 
deeply about this 
Lakeland,
woman.” 
has six receptions Huntley Johnson and a touch­down this 
attorney 
his own recognizance and ordered to have no contact with the alleged victim. 
The alleged victim also was in court with her mother and sister. The woman told Judge Denise R. Ferrero she does not fear Rainey but was con­cerned about retribution from the public following all the media attention. 
She also asked for the charges to be dropped. 
“I did not want to have him arrested,” she said. “When the police came, I signed papers to not press any charges. I don’t fear for my safety. … People all over the country have been calling my cell phone. I’m not afraid of him. I’m more afraid of all the repercussions.” 
The Gainesville Sun first reported Rainey’s arrest. 
According to “He never intended for this to happen nor would he ever hurt this woman. He cares deeply about this woman. He didn’t handle it like he should have. He knows that. Hopefully this will end up being a bump in the road.” 
Florida likely will be with­out Rainey at Tennessee on Saturday. State Attorney Bill Cervone told Florida Today that 
season. He’s 
also the 
team’s pri ­mary punt returner. He missed the second half of Saturday’s game against South Florida with a concus­sion. 
Rainey also missed practice Monday. 
Coach Urban Meyer is expected to address Rainey’s situation during the Southeastern Conference tele­conference Wednesday. Meyer has suspended other players, including defensive end Carlos Dunlap last season and receiver Frankie Hammond Jr. this summer, immediately following arrests. 
Rainey is the 27th player arrested during Meyer’s six seasons in Gainesville. 
Rainey’s only real trouble was minor. He drew the coach’s ire last month when he said the Gators might be better off 
“And I love Chris 
Gainesvill e without some Police, Rainey Rainey. When I ask of the players 
sent the woman him a question, I give who turned he dated on pro after last 
him a whole day to
and off the last season. three years a think about it and “I guess we text message write it down 100 got rid of the that read, prima donnas 
times.” 
“Time to die, and the (self­(expletive )” ish) cats,” after leaving Urban Meyer Rainey said. 
her home. Florida coach “There are no 
Officer Jesse Bostick said the woman fell asleep and missed a call from Rainey. Rainey then went to her home, they talked and she told him to leave. According to Bostick, the woman got the text a short time later and called police. 
Rainey’s attorney, Huntley Johnson, told The Associated Press that his client was “overcharged by the arresting agency.” 
“My early sense is this will be something less than a third-degree felony,” Johnson said. “I think this will turn out to be what I think this is, which is something minor. I don’t think that the (state) statute was intended for this kind of thing.” 
Johnson called Rainey a “terrific kid who works his rear end off” in the classroom and on the football field, and added that he hopes Rainey will be reinstated this season. 
“I think this is something that will pass,” Johnson said. 
rock stars this 
year, definitely not. You can say cliques or (selfish) cats, stuff like that, worried about themselves, worried about trying to get to the NFL.” 
Rainey also raised eyebrows as a freshman when he talked about the attractive coeds on Florida’s campus, specifying the type of woman he prefers to date. 
Meyer vowed last month to not let Rainey speak to the media again. 
“It’s our fault for letting him speak once a year,” Meyer said then. “I can name some other things he said to the media, too, that is absolutely inappropriate. So take (what he says) for nothing. Absolutely wrong. Inappropriate, wrong, non-thought out, which he does quite often. 
“And I love Chris Rainey. When I ask him a question, I give him a whole day to think about it and write it down 100 times.” 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, September 15, 2010 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Reggie Bush to return 2005 Heisman Trophy 
Associated Press 
Ohio State remembers what happened two years ago when it hosted Ohio and got off to a slow start. The Buckeyes, though, have done a good job in putting teams away this season. 
The second-ranked Buckeyes hope to not need another late rally to defeat the Bobcats when they meet Saturday in Columbus. 
After getting shut out in the opening quarter and trailing Ohio 14-12 heading into the fourth, Ohio State scored two touchdowns to come away with a 26-14 victory Sept. 6, 2008. 
The Buckeyes have scored first in both wins thus far in 2010 and have held leads of 35 and 19, respectively, after three quarters in those games. 
Ohio State (2-0) enters this matchup as a heavy favorite, but offensive lineman Justin Boren knows just how danger­ous a game like this can be. He played for then-No. 5 Michigan when it was shocked by FCS team Appalachian State 34-32 on Sept. 1, 2007. 
“You think the talent’s going to be so much better on a No. 1­or a No. 2-ranked team and there are better players, but everyone that’s playing college football is a good player,” he said. “You have guys at Ohio U. who can play on some of these bigger programs.” 
The Buckeyes are coming off a 36-24 home victory over then-No. 12 Miami last Saturday, their first win against a ranked opponent in September since 2006. 
“It felt great to be able to finally win one of those big early season matchups,” junior offen­sive lineman J.B. Shugarts said. 
“But we can’t get too comfort­able over one game. There’s still a long way to go.” 
Terrelle Pryor was 12 of 27 for 233 yards and a touchdown, and added 113 rushing yards and a score against the Hurricanes. It was the third time in his career in which he passed for at least 230 yards and ran for over 100. 
“Terrelle was really focused all week, and was saying all the right things,” receiver Dane Sanzenbacher told the Buckeyes’ official website. “His confidence spread to the entire team.” 
Devin Barclay tied a school record with five field goals and was named Big 10 co-special teams player of the week, while defensive lineman Dexter Larimore recorded his first sack. Larimore, a fifth-year sen­ior, remembers the Buckeyes’ last game against the Bobcats 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Reggie Bush took the unprecedented step of giving back his Heisman Trophy on Tuesday, saying the scandal over improper bene­fits while he was a star run­ning back at Southern California should not stain “the dignity of this award.” 
USC was hit with heavy sanctions by the NCAA this summer after it determined Bush and his family had received hundreds of thou­sands of dollars in gifts from two fledgling California-based marketing agents. The NCAA ruled that Bush was ineligible for the 2005 season, which opened the possibility that the Heisman Trophy Trust would take back the award. 
One of the few guidelines given to Heisman Trophy vot­ers is that a player must be in compliance with NCAA rules to be eligible for the award. 
“The persistent media spec­ulation regarding allegations dating back to my years at USC has been both painful and distracting,” Bush said in a statement released through the Saints. “In no way should the storm around these alle­gations reflect in any way on the dignity of this award, nor on any other institutions or individuals. 
“For the rest of my days, I will continue to strive to demonstrate through my actions and words that I was deserving of the confidence placed in me by the Heisman Trophy Trust.” 
Shortly after USC was sanc­tioned, the eight -member trust, based in New York, said it was considering what to do about Bush, who won in a landslide vote over Texas quarterback Vince Young. 
The trust met Tuesday; it had no comment. Whether the 2005 Heisman will be vacated or given to Young remains to be seen. 
“Reg will continue to be the 2005 Award recipient and I will continue to be honored to have been in the 2005 Heisman campaign with such a talented athlete,” Young posted on his Twitter account. 
Allegations of improper ben­efits to Bush and his family were first reported by Yahoo! Sports in September 2006, months after Bush had already been drafted No. 2 overall by the Saints. 
The NCAA and Pac-10 began investigating him and the USC football program soon after­ward, and Bush immediately denied any wrongdoing. 
One of the marketing agents, Lloyd Lake, sued Bush in trying to recoup nearly $300,000 in cash and gifts. Eventually, the case was set­tled and Bush never had to publicly tell his side of the story. 
In handing out its penalties, the NCAA cited USC for a lack of institutional control. Its report cited numerous improper benefits for Bush and former basketball player 
O.J. Mayo, who spent just one year with the Trojans. 
The penalties included the loss of 30 football scholar­ships over three years and vacating 14 victories in which Bush played from December 2004 through the 2005 sea­son. USC, under coach Pete Carroll, beat Oklahoma in the BCS title game on Jan. 4, 2005, and won 12 games dur­ing Bush’s Heisman-winning season, which ended with a loss to Texas in the 2006 BCS title game. 
After the 2009 season, Carroll left USC to take over as coach of the NFL’s Seattle Seahawks. 
“It is my hope that this situ­ation serves as a teachable moment to all involved, espe­cially for the young athletes and university and high school administrators of tomorrow,” Carroll said in a statement. 
In July, USC replaced athlet­ic director Mike Garrett with Pat Haden, and one of the first moves Haden made was returning USC’s copy of Bush’s Heisman Trophy. 
Bush’s decision ends four years of questions, debate and turmoil surrounding allega­tions that tainted one of the great performances in college football history. 
“It doesn’t matter if he gives it back. Everyone still knows Reggie Bush was the best player that year. Look at the runs. He was clearly the best player,” said Johnny Rodgers, 1972 Heisman winner from Nebraska. “O.J. Simpson got accused of a murder and they didn’t take his back. That was a far greater allegation, and they didn’t find O.J. guilty on that.” 
Former Nebraska quarter­back Eric Crouch, who won the Heisman in 2001, called it a “sad day.” 
Eddie George, the 1995 Heisman winner from Ohio State, felt the same way: “I don’t think he should’ve gave his Heisman away. I think it’s a shame that it’s come to this for Reggie.” 
USC won 34 straight games and two national titles during Bush’s sensational three-year career. 
In 2005, he was spectacular, running for 1,740 yards, scor­ing 18 touchdowns and help­ing the Trojans reach the national championship game against Texas and Young. 
In winning the Heisman, Bush received 784 first-place votes, the third-most in the history of the award and fin­ished 933 points ahead of Young. 
But it was Young who came away with the biggest prize. 
He scored the winning touchdown with 19 seconds left in Texas’ 41-38 victory at the Rose Bowl. Bush’s most memorable play from the title game was an ill-advised later­al that resulted in a USC turnover. 
Bush jumped to the NFL as a junior after that bowl game and was drafted by the Saints. 
As a pro, he’s had some bril­liant moments and has been a productive player. However, so far, he has fallen short of becoming the star he was pro­jected to be. 
“Now that this is behind me I look forward to the future and winning more awards and championships here in New Orleans! Who Dat!” Bush tweeted. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Ohio State wary of Bobcats 
(1-1). 
“Obviously, there’s always that risk of that, coming after a big win against Miami and com­ing into a game against a team that, quote unquote, isn’t sup­posed to be able to contend with you,” he said. “Normally this would be a chance to overlook a team. But this year, with the guys and the leaders and the seniors we have, we’ll get our young guys ready to play on Saturday.” 
Coach Jim Tressel is confident that his team won’t discount the Bobcats. 
“The first thing that will make it difficult is OU will be tough and they’ll be good,” he said. “The second thing is reality, that when you play in an emotional game, is there that human ten­dency to take a deep breath? We kind of take the approach of showing the film, showing where we need to get better.” 


Wednesday, September 15, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Saint Mary’s to clash 

Torre in unfamiliar position 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Joe Torre finds himself in such unfamiliar territory this September: His team is playing for pride and to shake up a pennant race, rather than preparing for a playoff spot. 
It hasn’t been an easy thing to accept, either. Not for a 70-year­old manager so accustomed to deep October runs year after year in three largely successful decades as a skipper. Including four World Series titles in 12 seasons leading the New York Yankees. 
“It is a strange feeling for me,” Torre said Tuesday before Los Angeles opened a three-game series against the contending San Francisco Giants. “In a lot of ways it’s relaxing, I hate to say. But we’re in a position now that other clubs have been in the last couple years against us, where they’re trying to impact the pennant race by playing havoc with the teams that are in it. That’s our job now. Hopefully we’ll play that way. I expect us to.” 
It’s been 17 years—since 1993 with the St. Louis Cardinals—that Torre last missed the playoffs managing a full season. 
His Dodgers are fourth in the talented NL West after winning the division in each of his first two seasons. Los Angeles lost the NL championship series both years to the Philadelphia Phillies. 
Torre is disappointed. So is gen­eral manager Ned Colletti, who made several big moves at the trade deadline in an effort to get the Dodgers back in the division race. 
“It wears on me because as a manager, if things don’t go well I feel it’s my fault, because that’s my job,” Torre said. “Not to take the blame but to find a way to make it better. I’m not sitting here like a martyr because I’ve had a pretty good run here. It’s still my job and I’m happy to say it still gets me excited, it still gets me frustrated. That’s a good sign for me, that I’ve never had the emotion of saying ‘So what,’ or ‘What’s the differ­ence?’ I’m happy about that.” 

Now, Torre appears as if he could be ready to walk away when his contract is up next month—though he is yet to make a formal announcement about his plans. Whether that would mean he’s done managing for good is unclear. There’s thought he might return to manage the New York Mets again one day. 
“I’ve got a pretty good idea what 


with MIAA foe Calvin 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
The Belles look to get back on track in conference play Wednesday as they face off with rival and conference foe Calvin College. 
Saint Mary’s dropped to 2-5 on the season and1-1 in MIAA play after a 3-1 loss at Olivet Saturday. 
The Belles lost two consecu­tive close sets to begin the match (25-22 each) before rebounding to take the third set, 25-19. Olivet finished the match with a 25-16 set. 
Sophomore Stephanie Bodien picked up 12 kills for the Belles. Junior Danie Brink’s strong game led Saint Mary’s again, as she finished the day with 30 assists, four kills and four assists. 
It has been a season of ups and downs for the Belles. Saint Mary’s dropped its first three matches of the season, against Bethel College (3-0), the University of Chicago (3-0) and Wheaton (3-2), respective­ly. 
The Belles won two of the next three matches, with vic­tories against Western New England (3-0) and Albion (3-0) and a defeat suffered at the hands of Elmhurst (3-0). 
Ninth-ranked Calvin pres­ents additional challenges for Saint Mary’s. They dropped all three matches against the Knights last season. During the regular season, the Belles lost 3-0 at Calvin and 3-0 at home against the Knights. The two teams faced off for a third time in the MIAA Tournament, which Calvin won 3-1. 
This weekend, the Belles will head to the Manchester Tournament, where they will face Anderson, Purdue North Central, Principia and Grace. They will only face conference opponents for the rest of the season, starting next week. 
A win over a very talented Knights squad could be just what the Belles are looking for to turn their season around. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
I’m going to do next,” Torre said with a chuckle. 
Still, he’s not reflecting on things yet, not until everything is done and he’s back home and away from the pressures and grind of a 
162-game season. 
“I wish I could have done a bet­ter job in just being able to find a 
NCAA
way to make us get better,” Torre said. “There’s a lot of areas we did well over the course of the year and in ’08 and ’09 I thought our 
WAC fles suit against 
young players really developed. This year they have been very inconsistent. I always felt pretty proud of myself to be able to find 
Fresno State, Nevada 


the right words. This year has been pretty frustrating in that 
Associated Press 
regard.” DENVER— The Western Athletic Conference has filed a lawsuit to force Nevada and Fresno State to stay in the league through the 2011-12 school year before leaving for the Mountain West Conference. WAC commissioner Karl Benson said Tuesday on a conference call that the league filed a complaint last week in Jefferson County District Court in Colorado. “The damages the WAC could incur if Fresno State and Nevada left early are very, very signifi­cant,” Benson said. “That’s what has driven this: to protect the assets of the WAC as a corporate entity.” Benson said WAC bylaws state members must inform the confer­ence it is leaving for another league by July 1 or that departing member is obligated to stay through the next two school years. Nevada and Fresno State announced they had accepted invitations to the MWC on July 18 and both have indicated they would like to leave the WAC and be in their new conference for the 2011 football season. Benson said he has contacted the leaders of Nevada and Fresno State, seeking assurances that they will remain in the WAC through June 30, 2012. But those assurances have not come, he said. “I thought the filing of the com­plaint would initiate some discus­sion,” Benson said. But Nevada and Fresno State have still not contacted the com­missioner, Benson said. Both presidents expressed dis­may in statements released by their schools. “It is unfortunate that this mat­ter has moved to litigation before any discussions between the par­ties were undertaken. We have 
been very public about our desire to resolve these matters directly with the Western Athletic Conference and to do so as expe­ditiously as possible,” Nevada president Milt Glick said in a state­ment 
Fresno president Dr. John Welty said: “We’ve been advised by the WAC that it has initiated legal action. That is unfortunate. We believe that all the issues can be resolved through discussion rather than through costly legal proceedings.” 
The WAC also expects Nevada and Fresno State to pay a $5 mil­lion exit fee. Benson said the fee is not mentioned in the lawsuit and is a separate issue. 
Boise State accepted an invita­tion from the Mountain West Conference in early June and will leave the WAC after this season. 
After Broncos announced they would leave, the WAC’s other members — including Nevada and Fresno State — voted to implement the steep exit fee to protect the conference from fur­ther defections. 
The other members of the WAC are Hawaii, Idaho, Utah State, Louisiana Tech, San Jose State and New Mexico State. 
Benson said he expects the WAC to remain an eight-team confer­ence in the 2011-12 season. He has said it is highly unlikely the WAC would be able to have new members in place before the 2012 football season. 
“We’ve declared pretty consis­tently that the football schedule for 2011 would be drastically challenging for the remaining members if they lost two football games less than a year away,” Benson said. 
He added the early departure of Nevada and Fresno State would also damage contractual agree­ments the WAC has with bowl games and ESPN. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 15, 2010 
Home 
continued from page 20 
Charleston, finished third, 
one stroke behind Notre Dame at 16-over. They were carried by individual winner sophomore John Duke Hudson, who carded a 214 for the tournament, leaving him at 2-under. 
Just behind Hudson in a tie for second was Irish fresh­man Niall Platt, who carded a 1-over 217. The rookie’s performance was marked by a confidence 
course,” Kubinski said. “He had ice water in his veins, knowing his score was going to count and playing like he did out there.” 
One shot in particular Kubinski said left him in awe. 
“The 17th tee at The Ocean Course is one of the toughest par threes in the world and [Niall] hit a laser shot, one of the best I’ ve ever seen, ” 
Elmhurst 
continued from page 20 
defense, led by goalkeeper sen­ior Allison Korbel, has allowed only two goals all season while tallying three shutouts. 
Because of the stingy Blue Jay defense and the Saint Mary’s offensive ineptitude so far this year, Belles coach Michael Joyce plans on changing up the offen­sive strategy to open things up. 
“We’re going to push some numbers up over the next few games to give ourselves an offen­sive push -we’ll have to gamble a little in the back 
Kubinski said. 
Another golfer making his Irish varsity debut was soph­omore Paul McNamara III. Firing rounds of 75 and 68 Monday, McNamara helped to catapult the Irish into their first place finish after two rounds. Despite carding an 
8 0  i n  t h e  f i n a l  r o u n d ,  h i s  
e f f o r t  w a s  n o t  l o s t  o n  h i s  
head coach.  

“It was his first time with the varsity traveling group, and he played very well, ” Kubinski said. “He showed 

unusual for a “The 17th tee at The first-year 
Ocean Course is one of
golfer. 

“[Niall] actu-the toughest par threes 
ally mentioned in the world and [Niall] to one of our 
hit a laser shot, one of 
coaches yes ­

the best I’ve ever seen.” 
terday that this was the most fun he’s ever 

Jim Kubinski 
had on a golf 

Irish coach 
great poise, attitude and he trusted his shots. Just like any­one in a situ­ation for the first time, there are lots of lessons to be learned and I think next time he ’ll bring that knowl ­edge to the table.” 
Next up for Notre Dame is the Fighting 
Irish Gridiron Golf Classic at Warren Golf Course, a tour­nament the Irish won last year. 
“This week gives us great momentum for our home event,” Kubinski said. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
that found the far side netting in the other game,” Joyce said. “We need to make sure nothing like that happens over our next few matches; it is tough to keep start­ing out that way.” 
With such a difficult start of the season and such a young team, it would be easy to lose confidence. Coach Joyce said he does not think they have lost their confi­dence, but he does say that the rough start is definitely taking a toll. 
“Tomorrow will be another tough game — Elmhurst is ranked No. 7 in the Central Region,” Joyce said. “Six of the seven teams we’ve faced so far 
have been at least 

but we’re not getting enough shots off with  “The team appreciates how  regionally ranked if not nationally; and the last team on that  
our current sys­tem,” Joyce said. Though they have not bro- tough our schedule is but losing a number of games does start to affect  list is a four-time conference champi­on and NCAA quali­fier. That is a tough start; along with five  
ken through yet, Joyce said  you.”  starting freshmen and a new coach it’s  
he  does  see  not an ideal sched­ 
some signs in  Michael Joyce  ule.  The  team  
his team’s first  Belles coach  appreciates  how  

halves that they are not that far away from their first win. 
“The last two games we’ve given up a very early goal,” he said. “It has been too bad because we’ve started very well over all; we’ve actually played some very good first halves, both games only down 1-0 at half.” 
He also said he thinks the Belles have fallen victim to some bad luck and fluky goals in the early minutes that have left them with an uphill battle for the rest of the game. 
“[It’s been] a goalkeeper slip in one game, and an errant cross tough our schedule 
is but losing a num­ber of games does start to affect you.” 
The Blue Jays’ biggest offensive threat is sophomore Biba Beckwith who leads or is tied for the team lead in assists, goals, points, and shots. If they hope to win, the Belles are going to have to contain Beckwith’s offensive prowess. 
The Belles and Blue Jays will clash Wednesday at 5 p.m. at Berens Park. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
Elston 
continued from page 20 
still not with the team, Kelly said. 
In his absence, tight ends coach Mike Denbrock has shift­ed over to coach the defensive line, while several coaches have helped lead the special teams. Strength and condition­ing coach Lorenzo Guess will coach the tight ends until Elston returns. 
“We should have a pretty seamless transition,” Kelly said, noting that Guess coached Cincinnati’s tight ends last sea­son. “Again, that is just for a short time. We’re expecting that coach Elston will be back with us pretty soon.” 
Second signal-caller 
Both freshman Tommy Rees and junior Nate Montana made cameos during the first half Saturday, when starting quar­terback Dayne Crist was side­lined after the first Irish drive. Rees, who was listed as the backup last week, threw an interception on his first colle­giate pass and was pulled for Montana shortly thereafter. Montana led the offense for the rest of the half, going 8-for-17 with an interception. 
While Kelly did not commit to one as his backup on Tuesday, he said both will see significant practice reps this week. 
“I think we’re going to settle on a package that suits both of them,” Kelly said. “We focused a lot on that in our preparation and in our meetings. I’m cer­tain we’ll be in a much better place this weekend if we have to go to them.” 
Road trip 
Saturday’s contest at Michigan State will be not only Kelly’s first road game with Notre Dame, but also his first night game, with kickoff set for 8 p.m. 
The late start will force Kelly to alter his pregame routine, he said. 
“I’ve had some opportunities where we’ve taken the team to the stadium the day of the game and moved them around a little bit, just so they don’t become sluggish in the hotel,” he said. “I don’t know that we’re going to do that, but those are the little things you get when there’s a time change, going from 3:30 to 8. Then certainly being on the road, seeing the stadium – other than that, the prepara­tion will be the same.” 

Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


Wednesday, September 15, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
LAURA McGINN 
TUESDAY VARIETY SHOW 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Wednesday, September 15, 2010 page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Still confident 
Kelly expects team to rebound from loss to Michigan; Elston still out with illness 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Irish coach Brian Kelly exhorts his team during the season-opening 23-12 victory over Purdue on Sept. 4. Kelly will look to rebound from his frst loss at Notre Dame this Saturday when the Irish travel to Michigan State. 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Writer 
Two days after his first loss at Notre Dame, Irish coach Brian Kelly said his players still “believe they’re going to win games.” 
“We’re building that,” Kelly said at his press conference Tuesday. “Now we have to work on some of the technical aspects of getting there.” 

After the game, Kelly said he thought his defense looked tired, but he backed away from that comment Monday. Instead, he said, the defense needs to come up with a stop in that type of situation, and that responsibility falls both on the players and the coaches. 
“That’s where we want to come up with a stop, clearly. I think as I watch the film, the coaches watch the film, we’re in a place where we need to 
SMC SOCCER 

Saint Mary’s travels in search of victory 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
Looking for their first win of the season, the Belles will travel to Elmhurst, Ill. Wednesday evening to take on Elmhurst College in a non-conference matchup. 
The elusive first win will not come easy against the Blue Jays (4-1) who are coming off of an overtime victory Friday against Principia College. 
The Belles have struggled all year offensively, and it is not going to get any easier when they take on Elmhurst. The Blue Jays 
see ELMHURST/page 18 


MAGGIE O’BRIEN/The Observer 

Belles midfelder Ashley Morfn keeps the ball away from a defender during Saint Mary’s 6-0 loss to Illinois Wesleyan. 
make some plays,” he said. “We also have to help our kids to be in position to make some plays as well.” 
The Irish spent Monday’s practice “correcting the errors in the game on Saturday,” Kelly said, before turning their full attention to an unbeaten Michigan State team that will host the Irish Saturday night. 
“We don’t carry wins or loss­es with us, other than we have a 24-hour rule, then move on,” Kelly said. “We make our adjustments on Monday rela­tive to the game plan that was just concluded, and we over the film, get back to work [Tuesday].” 
Elston update 
Irish defensive line and spe­cial teams coach Mike Elston, who missed Saturday’s game with an undisclosed illness, is 
see ELSTON/page 18 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame returns home this week after a solid show­ing at the College of Charleston Invitational in South Carolina, where it fin­ished second to a strong North Carolina State squad. 
In their first ever trip to The Ocean Course, one of the toughest in the nation, the Irish came tantalizingly close to victory, holding the team lead after the first day of action. 
But a final round 295 left the Irish at 15-over overall, while NC State shot a final-round 288, leaving the Wolfpack at 9-over for the tournament and in first place. 
With a competitive field of schools, a runner-up finish is indeed still an impressive result, and Irish coach James Kubinski said he was encouraged after his team’s 
SMC GOLF 
Belles win conference Jamboree 
Observer Staff Report 
Led by a course record in conference play by senior Mary Kate Boyce, the No. 5 Belles came out on top in the second MIAA Jamboree. 
Saint Mary’s set a team course record as well, shooting a 321 on the day, six strokes better than the previous record held by Olivet. 
Boyce tied for first individu­ally for the tournament, shoot­ing a 78 and earning medalist honors. 
Three Belles finished the day with a score of 81, good enough for third place in the Jamboree hosted by Calvin. Senior Rosie O’Conner and freshman Marin Beagley and Paige Pollak finished in a three way tie for second best on the Belles squad. 
Freshman Doyle O’Brien was the other Belles golfer whose score was eligible for team play, but shot 91, which put her in 18th place. 
Freshman Alexi Bown and juniors Christine Brown and Megan Ryan competed individ­ually in the tournament. Brown finished with an 87, Bown with a 93 and Ryan with a 94, earn­ing them 12th, 27th and 32nd place, respectively. 
The Belles return home and will host the O’Brien National Invitational Sunday and Monday at Warren Golf Course, where the top finishers from last year’s NCAA Division III Championship will compete. 
MEN’S GOLF 
Irish post strong showing 
Second-place finish in South Carolina exceeds expectations 

showing Monday and Tuesday. 
“If you had asked me going in to the tournament, ‘would you take a second place fin­ish,’ I would have said yes,” Kubinski said. “Looking at the field, I thought N.C. 
State, Coastal Carolina and Vanderbilt were going to be tough. And plus you can never count out the home team.” 
The home team, College of 
see HOME/page 18 




