the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


2010 Forum examines global marketplace 
Series of events aims to engage students in debate on ethics of economy, will feature lecture by Thomas Friedman Nov. 3 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame has a history of exploring issues of academic interest, but the University hopes this year’s annual Forum will also demonstrate its ongo­ing commitment to issues of interdisciplinary and global importance. 
The Notre Dame Forum, a signature event for the University, has returned after a year’s absence. This year, the Forum will directly address the role ethics and morals should play in the reshaping of the global economy, said Ed Conlon, associate dean at the Mendoza College of Business and chair­man of the Notre Dame Forum working committee. 
Conlon said the University selected this year’s topic, “The Global Marketplace and the Common Good,” because it is a timely issue and as a result of Pope Benedict XVI’s 2009 encyclical, “Caritas in Veritate,” which directly addressed the Catholic Church’s view on the issues raised by business ethics in the light of the financial cri­sis. 

“Notre Dame wanted to build on the issues raised in ‘Caritas’ by having a year-long conversa­tion about the role of the econo­my and business in furthering human development,” Conlon said. “Basically we want to dis­cuss how markets and economies play into the overall development of humankind.” 
The format of the Forum will look a little different than in previous years. Instead of a sin­gle panel discussion, it will be a yearlong conversation in an attempt to bring a broader scope to the issues facing the global marketplace, Conlon said. 
The University modified the Forum’s format at the request of University President Fr. John Jenkins. This year’s Forum will feature several satellite events taking place before and after the signature event, a Nov. 3 lecture by New York Times columnist Thomas Friedman. 
“There was a sense that the Forum should not be a single event and there was a lot of dis­cussion how Notre Dame should really dig into a topic of impor­tance that would go beyond having a single event,” Conlon said. “The idea was to enlarge the scope of the Forum to encompass a lot of different things in relation to one topic over the course of the academic year.” 
Conlon said the satellite events are intended to give the students various perspectives and background on the topics that Friedman will address in 
see FORUM/page 3 

ULTIMATE ROAD TRIP 



‘A mosaic of American brands’ 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Brothers and Notre Dame alumni Walter and Patrick Hessert are living the dream, traveling the country in an Airstream trailer sharing their passion for American entrepreneurial spirit. 
“We wanted to go on the ultimate road trip before I started my next job and before Patrick started his,” Walter said. “So I bought an Airstream trailer, but right before we left, I decided that I wanted to do something with it.” 
Instead of just hitting the open road, Walter, a 2006 Notre Dame graduate, and Patrick, who graduated in 2009, founded the Million Dollar Roadtrip, a dynamic marketing company celebrat­ing young, passionate American entrepreneurs. Their journey began on July 4 in Lebanon, Kan., and they plan to visit 48 states in one year. 
“As a company, we can cover a full gamut of nation­al events for businesses because we are so mobile,” Walter said. 
The brothers plan for their 23-foot blue Airstream trail­er to be covered in 10,000 advertisements, measuring two square inches each. They hope to sell $1 million in advertisements during their journey to reach this goal. To date, they have sold $50,000 worth of advertis­ing. 

“We want to create a mosa­ic of American brands,” Patrick said. 
Even though their Airstream trailer is at the 
see BROTHERS/page 4 



Memorial Mass held for Seeberg 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 

More than 400 students, faculty, staff, family and friends gathered together in remembrance of Elizabeth “Lizzy ” Seeberg, a Saint Mary’s College student who died Friday. 
The College held a memo­rial Mass in Regina Hall’s Chapel Monday evening. 
Members of the Saint Mary’s College community filled the chapel. Attendees filled all of the chapel ’s seats; many attendees stood or sat on the ground. 
Fr. John Pearson celebrat­ed the Mass. 
“It’s hard to believe, that it’s barely 72 hours since shock descended on McCandless Hall and Saint Mary’s from Lizzy’s death,” Pearson said. “It’s been such a strong reality that in some weird way it feels like the feelings and emotions and 
see MEMORIAL/page 4 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Katie O’Connell lectures at ND page 3  Fall TV preview page 8  Student section supports Irish soccer page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 14, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT  S YOUR FAVOR TE PLACE TO EAT ON CAMPUS?

THE OBSERVER 









P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 

SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Laura McCrystal Mike Gotimer Kristen Durbin Megan Finneran Emily Schrank Tim Singler 
Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Marissa Frobes 
Photo Viewpoint 
Pat Coveney Ren Brauweiler 
OFFBEAT 

5-year-old boy wins Alaska moose calling contest 
ANCHORAGE – For 5­year-old Andrew Polasky, being loud has paid off. 
Andrew was the winner of this weekend’s moose calling contest at the Alaska Zoo in Anchorage. 
He lives with his parents, Janessa and Ray, on Elmendorf Air Force Base in Anchorage. He really hasn’t been around moose that much, even though they’re ever-present in Alaska’s largest city. Instead, he’s more used to deer from his native Wisconsin. 
So what’s his secret for winning a moose calling contest? 
His mom says he just 
Kellen Mathers  Katie Hennessy  Matt Schirtzinger  Julie Cass  Drew Vechell  Quinn Kilpatrick  
junior  sophomore  sophomore  junior  sophomore  sophomore  
St. Ed’s  Lewis  Alumni  Farley  Stanford  St. Ed’s  

“Ed’s of course.” “The Café in “South Dining “Ed’s!” “Sbarro.” “Ed’s....duh!” Grace that Hall.” serves wraps.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

likes making a lot of noise, and, she says, “He’s good at it.” 
For his efforts, Andrew won a calendar, a $25 gift certificate to an Anchorage restaurant — the Moose’s Tooth, of course — and a moose cutout to hang on his wall. 
California church members show faith with tattoos 
ANAHEIM, – Church logo tattoos are the latest in off­beat testimony at an Orange County church that holds Sunday services in a punk rock nightclub and collects offerings in KFC buckets. City Church of Anaheim is celebrating its first year in operation and the goal of reaching a 200-member flock with a radical commit­ment to the congregation and community: Tattoos of the red-heart church logo. 
Pastor Kyle Steven Bonenberger told worship­pers that God “tattooed your name on his heart” and it was time for an ever­lasting commitment to Him and the church. 
The Orange County Register reported about a dozen people got inked, ful­filling the pledge they made if the church doubled its normal attendance. 
City Church started in a living room and moved to Anaheim’s Chain Reaction Club as the congregation grew. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 

The seminar “Mixing and Reaction in Highly Heterogeneous Porous Media” will be held today at 11 a.m. in Fitzpatrick Hall room 258. Diogo Bolster, assistant professor of civil engineering and geological sci­ences, will present this install­ment of the Environmental Fluid Dynamics Seminar Series. 
Professor John O’Callaghan will lecture today at 8 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall room 141. The lecture will focus on the works of Walker Percy and is a part of the Catholic Culture Literature Series. The event is free and open to the public. 
Annie Selak, rector of Walsh Hall, will speak today at 8:30 
p.m in the Cavanaugh Hall chapel. The lecture is spon­sored by the Four:7 Catholic Fellowship group. 
The colloquium “Maxwell, Einstein, and Their Impossibilities” will be held Wednesday at 4 p.m. in Nieuwland Hall of Science room 118. Mark Raizen, pro­fessor at the University of Texas at Austin, will speak at this event sponsored by the Notre Dame Department of Physics. 
Henry Givray, president and CEO of SmithBucklin Corporation, will deliver a lec­ture titled “The Passion of Leadership” Wednesday at 7 
p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. The lecture is present­ed by the Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business. It is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


74 61 HIGH 7364 6769
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

49 49 LOW 5748 5253 






Tuesday, September 14, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




SMC to host dinner 


O’Connell talks television 
By REBECCA MORIARTY 
News Writer 
Content will continue to be the most important aspect in the future of the rapidly changing television industry, Katie O’Connell told students in a lecture Monday night. 
O’Connell, senior vice presi­dent of drama development for NBC, graduated from Notre Dame in 1991 and has experience as an executive producer for NBC and CBS. 
She has also worked on major television shows such as 30 Rock, 24 and Law and Order. 
“Content will always be king,” she said. “Television is changing so rapidly, so the biggest piece of advice I can give you is to be on top of it.” 
Many of the students who attended O’Connell’s lecture were Film, Television and 
Theatre majors. She said they were lucky because that major did not exist when she was a stu­dent at Notre Dame. She graduated with a degree in American Studies. 
O’Connell began her lec­ture by most ­

“Content will always 
known jobs in 
be king,” the industry, but also encouraged students to 
Katie O’Connell 
explore lesser-
senior vice president 
known jobs. 

drama development 
Students 
NBC Entertainment should save their money if they plan to move to Los Angeles, 
able in the television industry today, including careers with networks, as managers and agents or as members of tele­vision shows’ 
creative teams. 

She discussed 
the well 

describing the many different O’Connell said, as it is diffi­types of jobs that are avail-cult to find a steady income in 

in honor of Moreau 

in addition to students. Bowles said he would like to see that number grow this year and encourages staff and faculty members to attend. 
Notre Dame students may attend the meal if they obtain co-exchange tickets on Wednesday. 
Sodexo made special food orders in order to prepare for Wednesday’s meal. They received and checked the items on Monday, Bowles said. 
Basic culinary prepara­tions will be made to the food during the day today, Bowles said. Last minute preparations and cooking will occur Wednesday after­noon; the meal will be fresh on Wednesday night. 
“The Basil Moreau dinner is a really important meal,” Bowles said. “It is one of the student’s favorite meals, but it is important to remember what it means to the cam­pus.” 
Another dinner to honor Moreau will be held during the spring semester. 
“Food brings people together. Students, faculty, staff, whomever,” Bowles said. 
The dinner will be served from 4:30 to 7 p.m. 
Contact Alison Meagher at ameagh01@saintmarys.edu 
the field of television. 

O’Connell concluded the lec­ture with her thoughts on the future of television. She said the television business was moving toward becoming entirely digital, and men ­tioned the newly available online rentals of Apple and Amazon. 
“Work with the architects of change,” she said. 
O’Connell said although the transition into a more digital version of television may not occur in the next five years, but it will happen in the life­time of today’s college stu­dents. 

Contact Rebecca Moriarty at rmoriar2@nd.edu 
By ALISON MEAGHER 
News Writer 

Sodexo, Saint Mary’s food service company, will host a special dinner Wednesday night in the Noble Family Dining Hall to honor the beatification of Blessed Fr. Basil Moreau. 
“We hold this dinner to honor Father Moreau and his educational and commu­nity values,” said Barry Bowles, general manager of Sodexo at the College. 
Moreau founded the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1841. Sodexo has been hosting a dinner to honor him since his beatification on Sept. 15, 2007. The first dinner was the idea of Sr. Rose Anne Schultz, former vice president of mission at the College. 
Bowles said the food would be reminiscent of a tradi­tional French meal, honor­ing Moreau’s French her­itage. 
Items being served include coq au vin, steak au poivre, salad, bread and cheeses. There will also be a dessert station with pastries, pies and cookies. 
Bowles said although there is limited space and seating, the meal has been a student favorite for years. 
Last year, over 250 faculty members attended the meal 


Forum 
continued from page 1 
his November talk. 

“People will leave the satellite events knowing the Catholic Church’s point of view on the topic but also knowing what theology has to say about the economy and the connections it draws to public policy,” he said. 
Junior Shannon Crotty, a member of the working com­mittee, said she thinks the satellite events are beneficial because they encompass multi­ple areas of study on campus. 
“The satellite events are designed to be focused on dif­ferent areas that the global 
economy touch-“A great university issues Friedman es,” she said. “It should make raised, Gast said. involves multi-While the 
information like this
ple different working commit-colleges and available to the tee continues to brings many dif-student body.” develop events ferent arenas and bring aware-together.” ness to the stu-
Ed Conlon
The satellite dent body about events have the Forum, 
chairman been the pri-Notre Dame Forum Conlon said mary focus of working committee University offi­
the working committee, as students and faculty worked to make sure the discussions encompass a variety of issues and appeal to the students. The first event took place on Sept. 6 in conjunction with the fall Career Expo and featured com­panies talking about corporate social responsibility. The next event, a panel discussion titled “Morals and Markets,” will take place Sept. 21 in Washington Hall. 
The addition of satellite events was an attempt to achieve one of the main goals of the Forum, to better engage students in scholarly discussion. Working committee member senior Shanna Gast said she thinks adding satellite events before and after the signature discussion night rectified this problem. 
“In the past, the Forum has always had this buildup and has been a huge event, but then discussion was started and ended with that one event,” she said. “But these issues won’t go away through a panel that comes and goes on campus. Now, there will be an ongoing dialogue all year.” 
The day following the Friedman talk, there will be discussion groups between brother and sister dorms with designated student leaders to facilitate discus­sion about the 
cials are excited 
about this year’s topic and believe the expansion in the scope of the Forum better fulfills the University’s mission. 
“One of the things I’ve heard from people is that this is the way it should be,” he said. “Notre Dame should be having yearlong discussions on topics of importance and this topic is not one that’s going to go away. A great university should make information like this available to the student body, and that’s what we’re trying to do.” 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 14, 2010 
Brothers 
continued from page 1 
core of their brand, it is more than just their business — it is their home for the next 11 months. They said they affec­tionately refer to it as “Alleroy,” in honor of their grandfather. 
“The Airstream is covered in ads that are products of 
enterprising and ingenuity of this country,” Walter said. “Seeing the Airstream gen­erates a viscer­al reaction among young people.” 
The brothers said they want to create a social and cre­ative network visionaries. 
Walter and Patrick said they talked about the peo­ple they met and decide who deserved the award. A huge milestone for this dynamic duo came a few weeks into 

“[The Airstream trail-Competition in Avalon, N.J., 
er] will be a mosaic of 
and the Notre 
Americana art.” 
Dame vs. Michigan foot­ball game in 
Walter Hessert 
South Bend last 
co-founder 
weekend. 

Million Dollar Road Trip 
“Going to the 
of young 
Million Dollar Road Trip also gives Inspirations Grants every two weeks. They award these grants to businesses that embrace the passionate spirit the Hessert brothers want to spread. Thus far, they have given $500 cash and $200 worth of advertising space to three recipients. 
At the beginning of the trip, 

“We’re just wannabe cowboys.” 
Patrick Hessert co-founder Million Dollar Road Trip 
their journey; people began to recognize the Airstream trailer and the Hessert’s mes­sage and started to make nominations for the grants. 
Now that people have heard about their project, they are implementing a voting system 
Memorial 
continued from page 1 
reactions have been going on for a very long time.” 
Pearson shared his experi­ence meeting Seeberg and said her bright personality and sunny disposition affect­ed everyone she met. 
“Here at Saint Mary’s we grieve for Lizzy both because of the presence and friend­ship and vitality she left us with, and because we know we will miss all that she could have been here and how she might have placed her own particular stamp on our community, our family,” he said. 
Lizzy’s father Tom Seeberg, as well as other family and friends, attended the Mass. 
Carol Ann Mooney, presi­dent of the College, partici­pated in the Mass as the lec­through their website so peo­ple who are following their journey can vote for winners of the Inspiration Grant. 

The brothers said the pas­sionate people they meet con­tinue to inspire them. 
“I love finding people and sharing their stories,” Patrick said. 
In the past few months, they traveled through big cities and attended events such as the Ironman in Lake Placid, N.Y., The Brendan Borek Surf 
game is a 
homecoming for us,” Walter said. 
They said they are also looking forward to other events, such as a rodeo in Omaha, Neb. 
“We’re just wannabe cow­boys,” Patrick said with a laugh. 
When their yearlong cross country trip is over, the brothers hope their Airstream will be a design piece. In addition to its exte­
rior advertis ­ing, the interior will be covered with pictures of the people they met. The broth­ers said they hope it could be showcased in art museums across the country. 
“It will be a mosaic of Americana art celebrating what is at the core of this country,” Walter said. 

Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
tor. 

At the end of the service, Seeberg’s father spoke to the congregation. 
Karen Johnson, vice presi­dent of Student Affairs, said Saint Mary’s College would provide transportation for any students who wished to attend the funeral Friday. 
The visitation will be held Thursday at N.H. Scott & Hanekamp Funeral Home, located at 1240 Waukegan Road in Glenview, Ill. from 4 to 9 p.m. The Funeral Mass will be held at 10 a.m. Friday at St. Norbert Church, located at 1809 Walters Ave. in Northbrook, Ill. 
In lieu of flowers, dona­tions may be made to Christ the King Jesuit College Prep at www.ctkjesuit.org or Erika ’s Lighthouse at www.erikaslighthouse.org 

Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

Club aids Ugandan children 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 

As part of Saint Mary’s mis­sion, the College strives to be a hub for service both in the local community and through­out the world. To this end, senior Kristen Metzger, founder and president of Invisible Children at the College, has been working toward helping the children of war-torn Uganda. 
“We are young activists working to restore Northern Uganda to peace and prosper­ity,” Metzger said. 
The club started in fall 2009, when Metzger decided there was a need on campus for a group like Invisible Children. The club is actually a branch of the global organi­zation that began with the making of a documentary of the same title. The Invisible Children organization uses film, creativity and social action to end the use of child soldiers in Uganda, according to its website. 
Metzger held a showing of the film early last year, and has been working to increase membership since then. 
“We want to make a tangi­ble impact in Uganda,” she said. 
Metzger said she is looking forward to the group’s upcom­ing event, which will bring Ugandans to campus to dis­cuss their experiences in northern Uganda. 
“There’s a tour of unparal­leled authenticity — allowing the people of northern Uganda to tell their stories 
face-to -face  at  screenings  
across  North  America,”  
Metzger said.  

The screening will be on 

Oct. 12 at 7 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium on Saint Mary’s campus. It will be open to Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Saint Mary’s students as well as the South Bend community. 
Metzger said she is also hoping to join the global orga­nization’s Schools for Schools program, which helps encour­age higher academic stan­dards and provides aid to northern Ugandan schools. These stories will also be told during the screening. 
“The people from Uganda will be sharing how Invisible Children’s programs are rebuilding education for a region recovering from over 20 years of war,” Metzger said. 
The screening will show stu­dents what is going on in Uganda, and hopefully inspire activism, Metzger said. 
“These students have over­come all odds,” she said. “They are night commuters, child mothers, displaced per­sons and orphans by war. They refuse to be defined by their past, pushing forward to define their own futures.” 
Ultimately, Metzger said she hopes the group will be able to travel to Uganda and help first-hand. As a senior, she said her short-term goal is to bring more students into the club and raise awareness on campus. 
In the spring semester, Metzger is working on hosting a week of events including guest speakers, alumnae and volunteers to help raise funds and awareness for the organi­zation. 
“The people of Uganda are asking for a future beyond the conflict, and their pleas have inspired this organization,” Metzger said. “Our main goal is enable children to take responsibility for their destiny and the fate of their country.” 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 



page 5 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 14, 2010 
GOP to oppose tax increases 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama’s plan to raise taxes on wealthier people while preserving cuts for everyone else appears increasingly likely to founder before Election Day. 
Senate GOP leaders declared on Monday that Republicans are, to a person, opposed to legislation that would extend only middle-class tax relief -which Obama has repeatedly promised to deliver -if Democrats follow through on plans to let tax rates rise for the wealthiest Americans. The GOP senators forcefully made their case one day after House Republican leader John Boehner suggest­ed he might vote for Obama’s plan if that ends up the only option. 
Both Republicans and Democrats are using the looming expiration of Bush-era tax cuts as a defining bat­tle in elections to determine control of Congress. 
It would take numerous Democratic defectors to pass the Republicans’ version ­extending all the Bush tax cuts -or the issue could be left for a postelection congres­sional session if Republicans block the measure with a fili­buster. Obama last week declined to say whether he would veto a bill that pre­served the tax breaks for the wealthy. 
On Sunday, Boehner said he would support renewing tax cuts for the middle class but not the wealthy if that was his only choice. Though Boehner was clear that he supports extending the full range of tax cuts, the White House jumped on his remarks as a possible change of heart. 
But Sen. Jon Kyl of Arizona, the GOP whip, said Monday his party won’t give ground. 
“Just before the recess we had a meeting and we dis­cussed this, and every Republican was absolutely supportive of the idea that there shouldn’t be any increases in taxes,” Kyl said. 
Renewing the tax cuts for everyone would cost the gov­ernment almost $4 trillion over the next decade, accord­ing to congressional analysts, who also assume that Congress won’t allow the alternative minimum tax to hit millions of middle class taxpayers with eye-popping tax hikes. 
With polls showing broad public anger over spiraling federal deficits, Obama wants to exclude individuals earning over $200,000 and couples making over $250,000 -who account for $700 billion of that $4 trillion total. They represent about 3 percent of taxpayers, according to the Tax Policy Center, a Washington think tank. 
“Only in Washington could someone propose a tax hike as an antidote to a recession,” GOP leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky said. 
McConnell has said a bill extending the tax cuts for only low-and middle-income earn­ers cannot pass the Senate, but he declined to reiterate that threat on Monday. Republicans control 41 seats, the minimum needed for a successful bill-killing fili­buster, though McConnell spokesman Don Stewart declined to say whether all 41 Republicans would support a filibuster. 
To amplify his point, 

BP claim czar considers making key concessions 
Associated Press 
HOUMA, La. — The administra­tor of the $20 billion compensa­tion fund for victims of the Gulf oil spill said Monday he might waive the current requirement that wages earned from helping out in the cleanup be subtracted from people’s spill claims. 
Doing so would be a key con­cession following strong criticism from residents about the claims process. 
Meanwhile Monday, BP crews resumed drilling the final 50 feet of a relief well meant to allow them to permanently seal the blown-out well in the Gulf of Mexico. John Wright, who’s lead­ing drilling efforts aboard the Development Driller III vessel, told The Associated Press in an e­mail that the operation had resumed. BP said crews started drilling at 1:40 p.m. CDT. 
BP and the government have said it would take about four days from the time crews started drilling again to intersect the blown-out well. Once the relief well intersects the blown-out well, crews will pump in mud and cement to permanently seal the well. 
At the town hall meeting in Houma, La., fund czar Kenneth Feinberg told hundreds of people who packed a convention center that he is reconsidering the requirement that cleanup wages be subtracted from claims. He said he understands the loud con­cerns raised by people who are still hurting. 

“I’m taking it under advise­ment,” Feinberg said. “The last time I said, no way, I’m deducting it. Now, it’s open for discussion.” 
The April 20 rig explosion killed 11 workers and led to 206 million gallons of oil spewing from BP PLC’s undersea well into the Gulf of Mexico. The flow of crude was first stopped by a cap placed atop the well in mid-July. 
Glenn Poche, a 61-year-old shrimper from Lafitte, La., said after the town hall meeting with Feinberg that he felt like he had more questions than answers about why he only received a $600 emergency payment for six months. He said he was making thousands each month from his business before the waters he worked in were shut down because of the spill. 
“He gave me $3.30 a day to live on,” Poche said. “I can’t pay my bills.” 
Like other people at the forum, Poche said he believes it is unfair for claims evaluators to give pay­ments based on 2009 wages when shrimp prices were lower last year than they have been in 2010. Feinberg told those gath­ered that several types of finan­cial documents could be used to show income, not just 2009 tax returns. 
McConnell on Monday intro­duced a bill to extend to Bush tax cuts indefinitely for all income ranges. 
Some Democrats, like Sens. Kent Conrad of North Dakota, Evan Bayh of Indiana and Ben Nelson of Nebraska, are sid­ing with Republicans against raising taxes on anyone dur­ing a fragile economic recov­ery. 
“I don’t think it makes sense to raise any federal taxes dur­ing the uncertain economy we are struggling through,” Sen. Joe Lieberman, a Connecticut independent who aligns with Democrats, said Monday. “The more money we leave in private hands, the quicker our economic recovery will be. And that means I will do everything I can to make sure Congress extends the so-called Bush tax cuts for another year.” 
But Lieberman said he would not vote to hold up extension of the middle-class cuts to win leverage to extend those for wealthier people as well. 
At issue is a year-end dead­line to renew a variety of tax cuts enacted in 2001 -when the federal government was running a surplus. They include lower rates, a $1,000 per-child tax credit, relief for married couples, and lower taxes on investments and large estates. 
On Sunday, House GOP leader John Boehner said he would support renewing tax cuts for the middle class but not the wealthy if that was his only choice. Though Boehner was clear that he supports extending the full range of tax cuts, the White House jumped on his remarks as a possible change of heart. 
Aging gas pipe at risk of explosion nationwide 
Associated Press 

SAN BRUNO, Calif. — An ominous theme has emerged from the wreckage of a deadly pipeline explosion in California: There are thou­sands of pipes just like it nationwide. 
Utilities have been under pressure for years to better inspect and replace aging gas pipes -many of them laid years before the sub­urbs expanded over them and now at risk of leaking or erupting. 
But the effort has fallen short. Critics say the regula­tory system is ripe for prob­lems because the govern ­ment largely leaves it up to the companies to do inspec­tions, and utilities are reluc­tant to spend the money necessary to properly fix and replace decrepit pipelines. 
“If this was the FAA and air travel we were talking about, I wouldn’t get on a plane,” said Rick Kessler, a former congressional staffer specializing in pipeline safe­ty issues who now works for the Pipeline Safety Trust, an advocacy group based in Bellingham, Wash. 
Investigators are still try­ing to figure out how the pipeline in San Bruno rup­tured and ignited a gigantic fireball that torched one home after another in the neighborhood, killing at least four people. Pacific Gas & Electric Co., the pipeline ’s owner, said Monday it has set aside up to $100 million to help resi­dents recover. 
Experts say the California disaster epitomizes the risks that communities face with old gas lines. The pipe was more than 50 years old ­right around the life expectancy for steel pipes. It was part of a transmission line that in one section had an “unacceptably high” risk of failure. And it was in a densely populated area. 
The blast was the latest warning sign in a series of deadly infrastructure fail­ures in recent years, includ­ing a bridge collapse in Minneapolis and a steam pipe explosion that tore open a Manhattan street in 2007. The steam pipe that ruptured was more than 80 years old. 
The section of pipeline that ruptured was built in 1956, back when the neigh­borhood contained only a handful of homes. It is a scenario that National Transportation Safety Board vice chairman Christopher Hart has seen play out throughout the nation, as suburbs have expanded. 
“That ’s an issue we ’re going to have to look on a bigger scale -situations in which pipes of some age were put in before the dense population arrived and now the dense population is right over the pipe,” he said. 
Thousands of pipelines nationwide fit the same bill, and they frequently experi­ence mishaps. Federal offi­cials have recorded 2,840 significant gas pipeline acci­dents since 1990, more than a third causing deaths and significant injuries. 

The Observer 
Viewpoint 
page 6 Tuesday, September 14, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Addictions 
Like any good college student, I have my share of near-compulsive behavior. Now that I’m a senior and real world responsibilities are fast approaching, I’ve decided to indulge myself while I still can. I confess that this semester, I haven’t done much of anything but coddle my vari­ous addictions. 
First of all, I adore Diet Coke. There’s something about a can of Diet Coke that Jordan Gamble instantly makes me feel sharper, Scene Editor although that could be because the artificial sweeten­ers add a little kick where good old corn syrup cannot. I don’t know what it is about Diet Coke that makes me love it so much. It isn’t the caffeine — I real­ly hate feeling jittery, or staying up later. It isn’t the carbonation, because I inevitably feel bloated and gross. Maybe it’s the can: silver, with graceful red and black swirls. It’s like holding a little bit of over-processed beauty in your hand. 

When I’m feeling really productive, I’ll bring along a can of Diet Coke and settle down at my laptop for another compulsive activity I adore: watching “Marcel the Shell with Shoes On” on YouTube. This delightful video features, yes, a tiny conch shell. Marcel is adorned with plastic shoes and a goo-gly-eye, and is voiced by Saturday Night Live’s Jenny Slate. This woman should win an award for Most Endearing Vocal Performance in a YouTube Upload. 
But when I am done with feeling good about the world and googly-eyed shells, I close out YouTube and head on to the Career Center’s website and GoIrish for some nice, simple masochism. I just search for journalism jobs and see “No results found,” no matter how many times I reframe my query. Yet, I keep hoping that a source of income will magically appear, and that I’ll be able to seize it before the other starving journalism students. 
To distract myself from a frightening lack of job prospects, I stop by xkcd.com, where I read nerdy-humor comic strips. I could stay on this site for hours, hitting “Random” to see another, and another, and another, although eventually I start running across the same comics because I’ve hit “Random” so many times. (I accomplished this feat far too often this summer, which goes to show how exciting my summer was.) 
Despite my enjoyment of YouTube videos and four-panel comic strips with stick figures, I actually quite like intri­cate narratives. There’s only so much sustained enjoyment I can get from bite-sized web offerings. But I don’t get addicted to narratives in books, because I don’t have the attention span for anything longer than The Observer horoscope anymore. 
No, I’m talking about the serialized dramatic masterpiece that is “Vampire Diaries” on The CW. This show is my crack. Homework may be piled around the futon, the Scene computer at The Observer office may have blown up — heck, it might even be my roommate’s 21st birthday. But every Thursday evening, I will be stationed in front of the TV, with a Diet Coke in my hand and “Marcel” playing during commer­cial breaks. 
Maybe I’ll start my own magazine called “Perfectly Harmless Addictions.” At least I’d have a job. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
Purposelessness 
Ethics was born in the struggle against the moral relativism of the Greek sophists 
— in the struggle to discern right from wrong in a time when such concepts had come to be seen as the impositions of arbi­trary will; ethics therefore assumed, Dan Sportiello all along, that there is a fact of the mat-Bound ter to discern — Variables that there is, in other words, an objective normative order, a purposiveness in things — and in men — independent of what use one would make of them. “For we are debating no trivial question,” Plato reminds us, “but the manner in which a man ought to live.” Each thing, he declares, is fulfilled by a particular good — one determined by its nature. And this is true of men no less than of things: regard­less of what one happens to desire, there is some right way for one to live, some proper form of life at which one ought to aim. 
The story of philosophy — indeed, the story of civilization — is essentially the story of our long and desperate struggle to awake from this nightmare of the norma­tive — to come to see the world not as purposeful but as mechanical, driven not by desire but by force. We, in our blind­ness, once took all things to seek their ful­fillment: both the heavens above and men below moved, it was thought, out of their own desperate need. Now we see that only we do. 
Or so it is said. This account of our histo­ry — of our steady emergence from the darkness of ancient delusion into the cold light of modernity — seems inspired by the very teleology that it seeks to reject. Worse, it is comically hyperbolic — or would be, at any rate, were we not witness to a host of philosophers who argue just this: after Machiavelli, Hobbes and Darwin 
— after Marx, Nietzsche, Freud and Foucault — the story of our struggle to awaken to the purposelessness of the 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
world seems downright compelling. But it was not always so. 
For how, after all, is one to live? “This might perhaps be given,” Aristotle responds, “if we could first ascertain the function of man. For just as for a flautist, a sculptor, or an artist — and, in general, for all things that have a function or activity 
— the good and the ‘well’ is thought to reside in the function, so would it seem to be for man, if he has a function.” Yet there is a fatal disanalogy, modernity responded, lurking in this: It is true that a good flautist, sculptor or artist is one who plays the flute, sculpts or paints well, but the only standard of what constitutes skill in these is determined by the will of the one who employs them. But there is no exter­nal standard by which to judge that will — which is, therefore, arbitrary. “As eye, hand, foot, and — in general — each of the parts evidently has a function, may one lay it down that man similarly has a function apart from all these?” Not at all, moderni­ty answers: Eye, hand and foot have func­tions only insofar as they can be made to serve the one who commands them. To ask after the function of that one is to mis­understand: It is only because they can be made to serve him that they have a func­tion in the first place. The good is merely the useful — for how can it make sense to serve oneself? 
How, after all, is one to live? The ques­tion, modernity concludes, is meaningless: the normative ordering of the world — the objectivity of right and wrong independent of arbitrary will — is a delusion. What has only recently become clear, however, is that this realization — if correct — is less heroic than tragic: if there is no objective normative ordering of the world — one independent, that is, of arbitrary will — it becomes difficult, If not impossible, to jus­tify any moral rules whatsoever, as all are revealed as arbitrary imposition. Modern ethicists only gradually awakened to this problem: “either the moral rules were taken to be binding independently of the passions and inclinations or,” MacIntyre argues, “they were taken to be binding in virtue of their relationship to the passions and inclinations. If the former alternative was chosen, it was difficult, and perhaps insuperably difficult, to explain how human beings could be motivated to con­form to moral rules, and, if the latter type of account was defended, it was difficult, and perhaps insuperably difficult, to explain how the particular passions and inclinations of an individual could motivate her or him to have the kind of impersonal and universal regard for the persons, interests and needs of others that moral rules enjoin.” And this is, if anything, too charitable. 
For without a teleological cosmology — without, that is, an objective normative ordering of the world — it becomes impos­sible to justify any absolute moral rules: so long as one can get away with breaking such a rule — and there will always be sit­uations in which one can — there is no reason to resist the temptation. But if civi­lization is built upon the shared accept­ance of absolute moral rules — and it always is — then civilization itself becomes impossible. This is the fruit of the philo­sophical honesty for which Machiavelli, Hobbes, and Darwin — for which Marx, Nietzsche, Freud and Foucault — strove so hard: if one would have men go on living in society, one must systematically deceive them as to the nature of the world, con­vincing them that — somehow — there really is an objectivity to the moral rules that one would have them follow. 
A way must be found, it seems, to make sense of teleology after all. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his third year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. Listen to his radio show on Thursdays at 2 p.m. on WVFI. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Regret for the things we did can betempered by time; it is regret for thethings we did not do that isinconsolable.” 
Sidney J. Harris 
U.S. journalist 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“How helpless we are, like netted birds, when we are caught bydesire!” 
Belva Plain 
U.S. author 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, September 14, 2010 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Yell during Chant 
Matthew Keenan is bothered that no students make noise during the Celtic Chant. Whose fault is that? Celtic Chant is a wall of noise and the arm swings are not stopping the non-band students from screaming while it is played. Everyone: YELL DURING CELTIC CHANT! If we all do our part to make noise, Notre Dame will be a tougher place for teams to play. 
Also, vuvuzelas would surely be prohibited by NCAA Rule Rule 9-2-1-b-6: “Persons subject to the rules, including bands, shall not create any noise that pro­hibits a team from hearing its signals.” While this is no longer enforced for simple screaming (see: Michigan 1988), vuvuzelas would very likely cost the team 15 yards. This rule is why the band stops playing when the opposing quarterback is ready to take his snap. 
Brian Wysocki 
senior off campus Sept. 13 

Solution to Chant problem 
Problem: Celtic Chant is not loud. 
Solution: CHANT the Celtic Chant. 
Every Notre Dame student and fan knows how to multi-task. 
Do two small little things for the Celtic “CHANT” defense cheer. 
1. Leprechaun Fist Pumps per usual. 
2. ***This is a new one*** Actually chant/yell/scream the melody that the band plays on an open “Ohh” vowel. 
The Band of the Fighting Irish is not allowed to play when the ball is under center (for risk of getting a penalty), so you can continue CHANTING the Celtic CHANT when the band has to stop playing. 
This is a signature defense cheer that will continue to be played every game; do your part to make it count and make it loud. 
CHANT the Celtic Chant. It looks and sounds silly not to. 
Ryan Belock 
senior Alumni Hall Sept. 13 

Tell me why... 
Notre Dame Student Section, 

You wear The Shirt, make noise on defense, know the cheers, join the people around you for push-ups and stay until the alma mater. Not only do you stand the entire game, but you are standing at a 45 degree angle because there are at least seven extra people in your row. Basically you are the best student section in the country. 
Then you go to church, volunteer at soup kitchens and add a Peace Studies minor. You are all about equality and making the world a better place. 
So when some kid’s sister wants to sit in the student section, how about you let her? 
Brittney Dudley 
alumna 
Class of 2010 
Sept. 13 
Chant needs to stay 
This is a letter in response to Matthew Keenan’s “Make ND stadium intimidating” (Sept. 
13) I agree with him wholeheartedly in that Notre Dame stadium needs to be louder. Everybody should be going nuts. Seriously. However, I disagree with him about Celtic Chant. 
I believe it should stay with a couple changes. You see, Celtic Chant is a song that is about, among other things, screaming. So scream! Really loud!! The arm waving is alright on its own, but it would be very intimidating to see 8000-plus students simultaneously waving their arms and screaming their lungs out. 
Also, on the vuvuzelas, that is an awesome idea. Somebody please make that happen. 
Kevin Eller 
junior Stanford Hall Sept. 13 
Clearing up confusion 
As a member of the band, I am writing this letter to clear up some confusion present in the view­points written by alumnus Jim Blase (“Wearing Kelly green,” Sept. 13) and sophomore Matthew Keenan (“Make ND stadium intimidating,” Sept. 13). 
In regards to the “mistake” of not bringing the band to Purdue, I might remind you that us band kids are students of this University too. Although we love playing in the band and helping our team that way, we would also like to take a game off and cheer on the Irish with our non-band classmates. Give us a break. Also, the band is going to Michigan State, so you can rest easy. 
To Matthew, I agree that Notre Dame Stadium is not as loud or as intimidating as it could be, but the two improvements you suggest are way off the mark. First, Celtic Chant is the song we play for crit­ical defensive plays because it is LOUD. You might not get the full effect in the student section but I can tell you that it is the most powerful song we play. There is no way we could be as loud on a song like “I Believe in a Thing Called Love.” There is not enough time between plays to get through “Livin’ on a Prayer”. Singing is not loud, “I bless the rains” is not intimidating and nothing is stopping you from yelling when you are moving your arms up and down. 
To address your second concern I am glad that our University would never allow something as stu­pid as vuvuzelas in Notre Dame Stadium. There is no way that anyone paying for a ticket would ever be okay with that. We believe that our game day experience is like no other and part of that is not making our stadium a “120 decibel noise machine”. The point isn’t to make the stadium so inhospitable that our fans cant even stand it. 
Easiest solution? Yell and move your arms then yell some more. Let’s bring some of that yelling to MSU — we’re going to need it. 
Jonathan Miller 
junior Dillon Hall Sept. 13 
UWIRE 

Plan ahead, use more creativity at Halloween 
Your Halloween costume might be good at getting you treats, but chances are the outfit itself was quite a rip off. 
While the holiday of dressing up in a ridiculous fashion is more than a month away, costume stores are open, with people buying away. 
Virginia Alley 

Sadly though, it seems most people just aren’t into the sheet 
The Kentucky 
ghost thing anymore. (Classic, 
Kernal
we should bring it back.) 

Much more popular are jour­neys into the risque. 
The formula for a modern Halloween costume is simple. In fact, I promise I can teach how to brain­storm your very own marketable costume before the end of this column. 
First, think of an occupation. The medical field, law enforcement field or military field — you name it. Okay, do you have one? Picture the uniform that person would wear. Now, remove about 72 to 80 percent of the cloth and add boots. Voila! Costume! 
If the idea of dressing like you were at work and then got attacked by a lion is appealing to you, then by all means, go for it. 
However, I have a few problems with this system. 
One, we’re being tricked out of using our cre­ative ability. A nurse who’s wearing booty shorts instead of scrubs? Exciting. 
You know what would be more exciting? A nurse in short shorts who stumbled into a pile of radia­tion because of her abnormally huge boots and grew the head of giant squid. Just saying. 
Making the creativity problem look small, howev­er, is my main issue with these costumes — the way the prices rip people off. 
Let us use Halloweenexpress.com as an example. 
Oh, look, a “Strip Search Sheriff” costume. The costume consists of a “Low cut, short sleeve top, shorts, belt, glasses, gloves and police baton.” The knee-high boots are not included. The price? $59.99, and that’s $12 cheaper than the retail price of $71.99. 
I don’t know about you, but there’s no way I can justify paying between $60 and $72 for a likely cheaply-made pair of shorts, thin belly-button length shirt, plastic accessories and glasses I could buy for $1. 
I wonder if once upon a time a committee sat around a long, oval table and said, “Hey, let’s set this up so the fewer clothes you buy, the more it’ll cost! It’s genius!” and everybody fell for it. 
The “Strip Search Sheriff” is by no means the only example. Go and look for yourself. These types of costumes with their rip off prices run ram­pant. 
In no way am I discouraging you from wearing whatever strikes your fancy. 
I am suggesting we pay a little more attention and use our brains instead of dishing out tons of cash for things we’ll wear once. 
Find a real outfit and cut it up. Go to thrift stores or other stores and piece things together. Make things. Chances are, it’ll look more interesting, and you won’t be buying the equivalent of the world’s most-expensive cleaning rag. 
This column first appeared in the Sept. 13 edition of The Kentucky Kernal, the daily publication serving the University of Kentucky. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The Observer 

Scen e
page 8 Tuesday, September 14, 2010 

Scene Staff Report 
“30 Rock” 

NBC, Premieres Thursday, Sept. 23 at 8:30 p.m. 
The wittiest show on television, “30 Rock,” ended with an overload of romance as the two final episodes followed Liz and Jack attending three separate wed­dings. After years of misadventures in love, Liz has finally found her soul mate, who is both a pilot and loves TGS. The only problem is that he hears Liz pro­fessing how incredible he is on the very day they met. Too fast! Hopefully this Matt Damon thing doesn’t work out so that Wesley Snipes (played by Michael Sheen) will continue to make appearances. And what? Jack’s going to be a father? One can only hope that this all leads up to an awesome live episode on Oct. 14. 
“Boardwalk Empire” 

HBO, Premieres Sunday, Sept. 19 at 8 p.m. 
HBO, known for its daring dramas and outrageous comedies, brings to life 1920s Atlantic City with the help of creator Terence Winter (“The Sopranos”). “Boardwalk Empire” follows the real-life gangster-king of Atlantic City, Nucky Thompson (played by Steve Buscemi of “The Sopranos”) and explores his exploits in politics, bootlegging and gambling to keep control of his city. If HBO’s long history with great television is any indication, “Boardwalk Empire” is sure to be another critical and audience hit. 
“Chuck” 

NBC, Premieres Monday, Sept. 20 at 8 p.m. 
A lot of things happened last season. Chuck (Zachary Levi) and Sarah (Yvonne Strahovski) got together. Chuck’s best friend Morgan (Joshua Gomez) joined the team in a limited capacity. Ellie (Sarah Lancaster) found out Chuck was a spy. Chuck and Ellie’s father (Scott Bakula) was killed. With their father’s death, Chuck promised Ellie he would give up the spy game. 
But the season finale left viewers with a shocking cliffhanger that Chuck’s mom is still alive and some­how involved in espionage. How can our favorite Nerd Herder resist investigating his mother? This season Linda Hamilton (“Terminator”) will join the cast as the elusive mother of the Bartowski clan. Also, prepare for a slew of guest stars. 
“Glee” 
FOX, Premieres Tuesday, Sept. 21 at 8 p.m. 
Last season America’s favorite group of misfits lost the glee club regional competition to Vocal Adrenaline even after singing an inspiring medley of Journey songs. Luckily the villainous Sue Sylvester (Jane Lynch) saved the day by convincing Principal Figgins to give New Directions another chance. Also, Quinn (Dianna Agron) gave birth during a rousing rendition of Queen’s “Bohemian Rhapsody,” Finn told Rachel he loved her, and Mr. Schuester (Matthew Morrison) sur­prised Emma (Jayma Mays) with a kiss and a promise he wasn’t giving up on them. This season expect more epic musical numbers and fantastic guest spots by Britney Spears, Javier Bardem and a recurring spot by John Stamos as Emma’s dentist boyfriend. Uncle Jesse! 
“Gossip Girl” 
The CW, Mondays at 9 p.m. 
Season 3 of “Gossip Girl” ended with a literal bang — dear Chuck Bass was shot in a dark alley in Prague. But luckily Blair and Serena were headed for Europe simultaneously for some down time. Get excited to see who will pair up this season. The CW is running out of options, so expect some repeat love affairs between Blair, Chuck, Serena, Nate, Dan, Vanessa, Jenny, etc. 
“Grey’s Anatomy” 
ABC, Premieres Thursday, Sept. 23 at 9 p.m. 
Season 6 ended with an emotionally gripping two-hour episode where a distraught, widowed man wreaked havoc on Seattle Grace by shooting up the hospital. Alex (Justin Chambers) nearly died when he was shot, but was saved by Lexie (Chyler Leigh) and Mark (Eric Dane). Two interns from Mercy West were not so lucky. Meredith (Ellen Pompeo) was finally happy (and pregnant!), but sadly lost the baby when Derek’s (Patrick Dempsey) life was in danger. Owen (Kevin McKidd) finally chose Cristina (Sandra Oh), and look for them to be happy in the upcoming season. This season will focus on the fallout of last year’s shooting for all of the characters. 
“House” 

FOX, Premieres Monday, Sept. 20 at 8 p.m. 
After cleaning “House” of vicodin in the two-hour premiere last season, all panicked. Did they de-House House? Season six proved that untrue: House was still a smart aleck, just with shorter hair. However the sea­son ended with the nearly unthinkable — House and Cuddy together. No hallucinations this time? Could the show finally have jumped the shark? The season seven’s premiere episode is aptly named “What’s Next?” 
“How I Met Your Mother” 
CBS, Premieres Monday, Sept. 20 at 8 p.m. 
“How I Met Your Mother” returns to the airwaves this fall for its sixth season. Following CBS’ announcement that Jennifer Morrison, formerly of “House,” has been added as Ted’s new love interest and “the biggest female character” in Ted’s life, speculation is high among critics and fans alike that this season Ted (Josh Radnor) will meet “The Mother.” 
“It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia” 
FX, Thursday, Sept. 16 at 10 p.m. 
The character-driven show focuses on the exploits of five self-obsessed yet co-dependent losers who operate a Philadelphia bar. Dee, Denis, Mac, Charlie and Frank are delightfully amoral (at best) and tackle some of the more absurd situations on television. 
This season adds some reoccurring story elements like a pregnancy and a marriage, but the show will stay true to its episodic-adventure format meaning new viewers will have no problem jumping right in. Among the relevant issues getting the “Sunny” comic treat­ment this season are boat buying, high school exes, health care reform and gay marriage. The new season promises to be as inappropriate and hilarious as ever. 
The Situation 

Music hunters seek, read, blog and cull music from radio, print and, most often, the interwebs. Music gatherers collect mix CD’s, free digital downloads, and whatever their friends happen to be listening to. If you are a gatherer, this space is for you. If you are a hunter, e-mail me your latest find and I promise you will find it written up here. 
When anyone thinks of girl pop today, the immediate image is that of a certain woman that has made the world go Gaga. Though Lady Gaga ma carry the torch for melodic femme the world over, she’s certainly the only girl in the world pushing people to the dance floor. 
Here are three women from across the globe who are calling fo 
renaissance of Madonna-esque girl power in the pop world. 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scen e
Tuesday, September 14, 2010 page 9 
the elevator for the guy who doesn’t make that in four months. Come on!” 
“Smallville” 

The CW, Premieres Friday, Sept. 24 at 8 p.m. 
This is the 10th and final season of “Smallville” so 
“The Vampire Diaries” 

The CW, Thursdays at 8 p.m. 
This soap opera on supernatural steroids returned for its second season premiere last week, and it’s like the summer break never happened in Mystic Falls. With breakneck pacing, an outrageous-

“Modern Family” 
ABC, Premieres Wednesday, Sept. 22 at 9 p.m. 
Last season’s hit “Modern Family” is back for season two after striking gold at the Emmy awards, winning Outstanding Comedy Series. The show, which trails a dysfunctional family, wowed critics and audiences alike last season with hilarious poignancy and is sure to be back with more tricks up its sleeve this fall. 
“The Office” 
NBC, Premieres Thursday, Sept. 23 at 9 p.m. 
the trend in Season 2. 
“Running Wilde” 
FOX, Premieres Tuesday, Sept. 21 at 9:30 p.m. 
Will Arnett returns to television as a leading man in “Running Wilde.” It is supposedly the tale of a wealthy “playboy trying desper­ately to win (or buy) the heart of his childhood sweetheart, the ultra-liberal humanitarian who got away,” according to Fox. There is of course nothing Will Arnett plays better than a wealthy entitled man-boy, and there is poten­tial for lines just as quotable as “Yeah, the guy in the $4,000 suit is holding 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
page 10 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 14, 2010 
NFL 

Referees defend call; Johnson catch not TD 
Associated Press 
ALLEN PARK, Mich. — The NFL is standing behind how a buzz-creating call was handled in the Detroit-Chicago game. 
Lions coach Jim Schwartz refuses to make a fuss about it. 
Jacksonville Jaguars coach Jack Del Rio, though, wished referees could’ve used their own judgment to rule Calvin Johnson scored a touchdown. 
“I’d like to see a little com­monsense injected into the offi­ciating,” Del Rio said Monday. 
That’s exactly what the league doesn’t want. 
“What we try to do with any rule is eliminate the gray area,” NFL vice president of officiating Carl Johnson said. 
Calvin Johnson leaped for a catch and got two feet and a knee in the end zone before the football hit the ground and he let it go. It was ruled incom­plete, allowing the Bears to hold on for a 19-14 win Sunday. 
Referee Gene Steratore said after the game that the receiver had to maintain possession of the ball throughout the entire process of the catch, and his boss backed him up the next day. 

“I am extremely pleased how it was handled,” Carl Johnson said. “I was watching it here in the command center, and am proud of the way our guys han­dled it.” 
Carl Johnson, though, wasn't surprised by the uproar. 
“It reminds me of the tuck rule, which a lot of people did-n’t know,” he said. “But it was properly ruled on the field. Now it is a nonevent because the fans know it. 
“Now we can further educate the fans and media on what the proper requirements are for a catch.” 
Schwartz refused to criticize the call made by the officials on the field or give his opinion about the rule. 
“It really doesn’t matter, tech­nically, what we think,” he said. 
Johnson wasn’t in the locker room when reporters had access to it Monday, but run­ning back Kevin Smith insisted the ruling wasn’t a topic of con­versation among his team­mates. 
“No one cares,” Smith said. “It’s over.” 
NBA 

Iverson to consider taking game to China 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Unwanted by the NBA, Allen Iverson is considering playing in China. 
Gary Moore, Iverson's per­sonal manager, said Iverson has not been contacted by any NBA team with training camps set to open in less than two weeks. Moore said there is “legitimate interest” between Iverson and a team in China to work out a deal. Moore did not know the team's name and was vague on details. 
“We’re very astonished, to say the least, that not one team has contacted us with any interest,” Moore said. “I just don't understand it.” 
Iverson played three games for Memphis last season before he returned for a sec­ond stint with the Philadelphia 76ers. He averaged 13.9 points for the Sixers before he took a leave of absence in March because of family issues. 

In his prime, Iverson boasted top-selling jerseys and sneak­ers and was a global super­star. His popularity never waned even as his production dipped — Iverson was voted an Eastern Conference All-Star starter last season. Iverson would be a drawing card over­seas, and might see a familiar face in former NBA All-Star Stephon Marbury. Also dis­carded by the NBA, Marbury played last season for Shanxi Zhongyu in the Chinese Basketball Association. 
Moore says a Chinese team first approached the 35-year­old Iverson last month. 
Iverson is 17th on the NBA's career scoring list with 24,368 points over a 14-year career with Philadelphia, Denver, Detroit and Memphis. He won the MVP in 2001 when he led the Sixers to the finals. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Boise State wants respect 

Associated Press 

BOISE, Idaho — Boise State coach Chris Petersen says it’s up to his team to answer any lin­gering questions about whether the Broncos are good enough to be ranked No. 3 in the country. 
“For all that stuff, we just need to play more football,” Petersen said Monday. “People will know what they have, whether this is really a good team.” 
The Broncos (1-0), who were idle this past weekend, were riding high after a Sept. 6 victo­ry over Virginia Tech. 
Then, the Hokies lost Saturday to second-tier James Madison. 
So when the new AP Top 25 came out, Virginia Tech sudden­ly didn’t seem like that big of a prize; Boise State held its rank but lost all but one of eight first-place votes from a week earlier. 
That’s prompted the question that Petersen, with a career 50­4 record, now expects but still won’t answer: Is Boise State, from an obscure little burg in the southern Idaho desert, real­ly of the caliber to be ranked behind No. 1 Alabama and No. 2 Ohio State. 
This kind of conjecture has become a popular parlor game for observers of the Broncos, who as members of the Western Athletic Conference — they’ll be moving to the Mountain West Conference in 2011 — are now semi-regular BCS crashers, hav­ing won two Fiesta Bowls, over Oklahoma in 2007 and TCU last January. 
Respect, it seems, is still hard to come by. 
Some contend Boise State, with now the second-longest winning streak in the country after Alabama at 15 games, is held to a different standard in the polls. 
Again, Petersen isn’t saying what he really thinks, if he thinks about it at all. 
“Good try,” he told a reporter who asked. “So much of this is just noise that can go away so fast. It’s so much conversation for no reason. Now, if you’re talking about us at the end of the year, then things are proba­bly earned and deserved.” 
The Broncos get another shot at convincing doubters Saturday at Wyoming. 
Wyoming (1-1) is coming off a 34-7 loss to No. 6 Texas. 
But Boise State has recently faced tough games against the Cowboys, including a 24-14 win in 2007 in Boise and a 17-10 squeaker in 2006 at Laramie, which at 7,165 feet above sea level is so high that Petersen jokes about building a mountain inside his indoor practice facility just to get his players acclimat­ed to the elevation. 
Petersen said the Broncos’ practices this week may be a lit­tle shorter, in advance of the game. 
But he’s pleased with their intensity. 
He knows his players hear the talk of a Boise State national championship should the team go unbeaten again; it’s his job to keep them from getting caught up in the hype. 
“I don’t necessarily think it’s one of those situations where they’re not going to try as hard,” he said. “I think in some ways, they’re going to try too hard, that they’ll try to live up to these unrealistic expectations. That’s what a lot of this is, unre­alistic expectations.” 
Petersen was also happy to have had an extra week to pre­pare, in hopes of making sure Wyoming doesn’t become his team’s James Madison. 
The Dukes, from the Football Championship Subdivision, scored the young college sea­son’s biggest upset so far with their 21-16 win over Virginia Tech. The Hokies only had four days to prepare, after their 33­30 loss to Boise State in Landover, Md., to open the sea­son. 
Asked if the Broncos could have been ready to play again so quickly, Peterson said he’s just glad he didn’t have to find out after seeing Virginia Tech fall on a fourth-quarter touch­down. 
“You see that, you just kind of shake your head and smile,” Petersen said. “That’s college football. It can happen to any­one, I don’t care how good you are, what your ranking is, what league you come from. That’s college football, and if you not ready to play, you’re going to get beat.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
information, visit ND's website at: Chris Farley: Remember when you My momma always said, "Life was http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. were in the Beatles and you did that like a box of chocolates. You never FOR RENT WANTED PERSONAL ——————————————— album Abbey Road and at the very know what you're gonna get." end of the song, it went: 
Name: Marci Ullery Name: Marci Ullery - Forrest Gump Name: Diane Mayfield Name: Bob Wensel Phone: 574-631-5550 Phone: 574-631-5550 'And in the end, the love you take ——————————————— Phone: 574-233-5291 Phone: 317-287-4244 Cost: $303.00 Cost: $146.00 is equal to the love you make'. Back to school. Back to school, to Cost: $42.00 Cost: $30.75 prove to Dad that I'm not a fool. I 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't You remember that? got my lunch packed up, my boots Apartments for Rent Near Airport, go it alone. Notre Dame has many If you or someone you care about tied tight, I hope I don't get in a on Busline resources in place to assist you. If has been sexually assaulted, we Paul McCartney: Yes. fight. Oh! Back to school... back to 1 Bdr. $600 and Join a fun, fast growing co called you or someone you love needs can help. For more information, visit school... back to school. Well, here 2 Bdr. $725 All Util. Included InvisibleSHIELD by ZAGG. Sales confidential support or assistance, Notre Dame's website: Chris Farley: Um, is that true? goes nothing. 
associate wanted for kiosk in the please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 http://csap.nd.edu. Call Mike 574-250-0191 mall. Call 317-287-4244 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more - SNL Chris Farley - Billy Madison ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Tuesday, September 14, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
NFL 

Ravens stifle Jets in season opener 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
— The Baltimore Ravens starred in this version of “Hard Knocks,” punishing the New York Jets with plen­ty of them. 
The Jets intrigued audi­ences in the preseason with their no -holds -barred, behind-the-scenes TV show, but it was the Ravens who grabbed the spotlight Monday night. They held New York to 176 yards, six first downs, allowed Mark Sanchez just 74 yards pass­ing and kept Rex Ryan’s crew out of the end zone. 
For those urging the Jets to put up or shut up, well, it was Baltimore that produced most of the highlights in a sloppy opener of New York’s new home. The $1.6 billion New Meadowlands Stadium rocked with J-E-T-S chants, then the Ravens rocked Ryan’s defense with enough big plays to silence the crowd of 78,127 — if not the talkative coach and his play­ers. 
“They beat us in every sta­tistical category there is except turnovers,” Ryan said. 
And not even a 3-1 edge in that department could help the Jets. 
Billy Cundiff’s 25-yard field goal in the third quarter pro­vided the winning points, with Anquan Boldin, Baltimore’s main offseason acquisition, gaining 65 yards on two passes against first-round draft pick Kyle Wilson. Boldin made the kind of impact the Ravens sought with seven receptions 
overall for 110 yards, at times toying with the Jets’ vaunted secondary. 
So did tight end Todd Heap, who caught six passes from a cool Joe Flacco for 72 yards. 
The beginning was fiery, as expected, with Ray Rice and Shaun Ellis woofing at each other before kickoff. But it turned into a slopfest, as many of the openers were this weekend, with the Jets looking particularly undisci­plined by drawing 14 penal­ties for 125 yards. They also were 1 for 11 on third downs. 
New York’s six first downs tied a franchise-low set in 1976. 
“We weren’t at our best today,” Ryan said, “but that’s a credit to the Ravens.” 
The beginning was fiery, as expected, with Ray Rice and Shaun Ellis woofing at each other before kickoff. But it turned into a slopfest, as many of the openers were this weekend, with the Jets looking the most undisci­plined. 
New York’s usually fierce defense sacked Flacco on Baltimore’s first offensive play, forcing a fumble recov­ered by Sione Pouha. The Ravens’equally intense D held firm, and Nick Folk kicked a 23-yard field goal. 
Pouha grabbed another fumble later in the quarter, by Willis McGahee, and Flacco was picked off by Antonio Cromartie on a side­line pass at the New York 3. The cornerback, acquired in a trade with San Diego to further bolster a secondary that features All -Pro CB Darrelle Revis, got a terrific block from his partner on a 66 -yard runback to the Baltimore 31. 

Two plays later, Shonn Greene lost the ball —he touched it only one more time the rest of the night and dropped a pass —and Baltimore embarked on an impressive 11-play, 76-yard drive for a 7-6 halftime lead. Of course, it was aided by Jets mistakes, the worst of which were Braylon Edwards—a wide receiver, of all things —running into Cundiff on a field goal attempt, giving the Ravens a first down to prolong the possession, and Wilson’s pass interference on T.J. Houshmandzadeh in the end zone. 
McGahee scored from the 1 with 6 seconds left, but New York wasn’t done committing penalties. The Jets were off­side on the extra point and had 10 penalties for 100 yards in the opening half. 
They weren’t any more efficient in the second half. But they did get Folk’s 48­yard field goal early in the fourth quarter to make it 10­
9. Even then, however, they wasted a 22 -yard punt return by Jim Leonhard to the Baltimore 35. 
Cromartie’s debut as a Jet was spotty, at best. Like Wilson, he was beaten sever­al times by Boldin as the Ravens usually avoided Revis, even though the Jets’ star cornerback missed the entire preseason in a hold­out. 
NFL 

Harvin’s migranes diagnosedassleepapnea 
Associated Press 

EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. — Percy Harvin was sleeping in a hospital bed last month follow­ing a scary collapse at practice when twice his heart stopped beating for several seconds. 
“They’d just barge in the room and be like, ‘Harvin, you OK?”’ said the young Minnesota Vikings star. “And I’d be like, ‘Um, I think so.’ And they were like, ‘Your heart wasn’t beating.’ So I was like, ‘Um, what do you want me to do?”’ 
Harvin told the story on Monday with a light-hearted smile and a look of satisfaction on his face, describing the lat­est and most dramatic develop­ments in his lifelong struggle with migraine headaches—a struggle that he says might finally be finished. 
Harvin has been diagnosed with sleep apnea, a disorder that causes temporary breath­ing stoppages during sleep. Told of his frequent trouble getting a good night’s sleep, Harvin’s doctors decided to test for the condition. They deter­mined it as a trigger of the debilitating migraine symptoms that have dogged him for years. 
Harvin now uses a breathing machine while he sleeps, with a mask placed over his nose, and he said he hasn’t had a migraine since his hospitaliza­tion on Aug. 19. 
“It’s a 100 percent differ­ence,” Harvin said. “I’m not waking up groggy. I’m waking up feeling refreshed and ready to go. So like I said, hopefully that’s it.” 
Harvin left the Vikings two days into training camp follow­ing his grandmother’s death and a migraine attack soon fol­lowed, keeping him out of prac­tice for the better part of the month. Three days after he rejoined his teammates, Harvin had another episode and col­lapsed on the field. 
“It’s been a blessing,” he said. “Had I never been in the hospital from the start, they’d have never figured out that it’s sleep apnea. I probably would still be going through the same thing now. Like I said, every­thing happens for a reason. A lot of doctors think that’s what it was, from the lack of sleep. They seem real confident, so of course that makes me confi­dent.” 
Harvin said he’s no longer taking medication for the migraines, either. The adverse reaction to that, he clarified Monday, was the cause of his collapse, not from the migraine itself. 
“I’m just finally glad we got all that simplified,” he said. “Just get sleep and eat right and hopefully get this turned around.” 
Harvin had only one catch for 12 yards in Minnesota’s sea­son-opening loss at New Orleans. With Pro Bowl wide receiver Sidney Rice out for several more weeks following hip surgery, the Vikings are counting on the reigning NFL Offensive Rookie of the Year even more. 
Harvin and the Vikings host Miami on Sunday. 

MLB 

Kansas City sends Bloomquist to Reds 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI — Down to only two fully healthy outfielders for their playoff push, the Cincinnati Reds acquired utili­tyman Willie Bloomquist from the Kansas City Royals on Monday for either a player to be named or cash. 
The NL Central leaders had been looking to get another outfielder after injuries left them with just Jonny Gomes in left and Drew Stubbs in center. The Reds began the day with a six-game lead over St. Louis. 
Bloomquist is a short-term fix. He had been set to start in left field Monday in the Royals’ game against Oakland. The Reds expect him in town for the second game of their series against Arizona on Tuesday. 
“He’s much needed,” manag­er Dusty Baker said. “He plays all over, especially in the out­field where we could use him. Plus, he can pinch-run and pinch-hit, especially against left-handers. We’ve been searching for a couple of weeks. We got him because we need him. We hope he’s a valuable spoke in the wheel.” 
Because he was acquired after Aug. 31, Bloomquist is ineligible for the playoffs if the Reds go that far. 
The 32-year-old Bloomquist has started games this year at second base, third base, left field, center field and desig­nated hitter. He had a nine-game hitting streak snapped over the weekend. He’s batting .265 with three homers and 17 RBIs. 
“Cincinnati called a couple of days ago, and we’ve been working on it since then,” Royals manager Ned Yost said. “I loved having him play for me.” 
“Willie Bloomquist is a guy who’s a free agent at the end of the year and he’s got a chance to go from a team that’s 27 games under .500 to a team that’s 20 games over .500. I wanted him to go ahead and experience it,” he said. 
The Reds have held onto first place despite a series of strains, sprains and bruises that hit the outfield particular­ly hard. Laynce Nix has a sprained ankle, Jay Bruce and Jim Edmonds have strained abdominal muscles and Chris Heisey has been limited by a strained biceps. 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 14, 2010 
U.S. OPEN 

Nadal fnally goes home victorious after years 
Nadal, 45 by Djokovic — as well as point-extending defense, sneakers squeaking as they scurried around the court. The key, perhaps, was this: Nadal went through a stretch of 45 points without making an unforced error, and he made only two in the fourth set. It’s not as though he was playing safe, either, cranking up his groundstrokes and aiming for the lines. 
Djokovic claimed the second set by breaking Nadal in the final game, getting back a deep return off a 122 mph serve. Nadal was on his heels — a rare sight, indeed — and slapped a forehand into the net. That gave Djokovic three breaks in a span of 10 service games, against a player who was broken twice the first 92 times he served. 
It would be the only set lost of 22 played by Nadal in New York this year, as he came oh-so-close to being the first man in a half-century to win this tournament without dropping a set. 
Nadal was back to his relent­less best in the third and fourth, hitting shots so well that Djokovic was moved to applaud on occasion. A drop volley here; a running backhand passing winner there; most delivered with a sneer. 
Nadal broke for 2-1 leads in each of those last two sets, then arrived at match point by sprint­ing to reach a drop shot and whipping a forehand that landed right on the baseline. 
Djokovic hit a forehand wide to end it, and Nadal fell back­ward onto the court with a shout. He rolled onto his stom­ach, his chest heaving — finally the champion in New York after losing in the semifinals the last two years. 
Now he’s the first left-hander to win the U.S. Open since John McEnroe in 1984, and the first Spaniard since Manuel Orantes in 1975. 
Nadal first burst onto the scene as the so-called King of Clay, compiling a record 81­match winning streak on that surface and starting his French Open career 31-0. His five titles at Roland Garros have earned him accolades as the best clay-court player in history, but now he has become so much more. 
He won on the grass at Wimbledon in 2007, edging Federer 9-7 in the fifth set as darkness descended, then again this year. He won on the hard courts at the Australian Open in 2009, again besting Federer in five sets. 
All that was left was the U.S. Open. After complaining of fatigue in 2008, coming off his gold medal from the Beijing Olympics, then dealing with bad knees and a torn abdominal muscle in 2009, he set out to make this trip to Flushing Meadows different. 
He curtailed his schedule a bit in the spring, to save some wear and tear. He took time off after Wimbledon, getting treatment on his knees and skipping the Davis Cup quarterfinals. And, constantly seeking ways to improve, he says he decided a couple of days before the start of the U.S. Open to tweak the way he holds his racket to serve. 
That added zip to his serves, now regularly faster than 130 mph, which helps him earn some easy points — important given the way he hustles so much and hits so hard, those booming forehands looking like uppercuts. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The list was long. Everyone, even Rafael Nadal himself, tried to explain why he kept leaving the U.S. Open without a trophy, why it was the only Grand Slam tour­nament he hadn’t conquered. 
His grinding style exhausts him. The wind plays havoc with his spin-lathered strokes. The courts are too hard and too fast. The balls are too soft. And so on. 
Two marvelous, nearly perfect weeks — and one victory in a thrilling final — make that all sound rather silly. 
Nadal won his first U.S. Open title to complete a career Grand Slam, beating Novak Djokovic 6­4, 5-7, 6-4, 6-2 Monday in a match filled with fantastic shot-making by both men and inter­rupted by a thunderstorm a day after it was postponed by rain. 
It’s Nadal’s third consecutive major championship and ninth overall. 
He is the seventh man in ten­nis history with at least one title from each Grand Slam tourna­ment. 
Rain pushed the men’s final from Sunday to Monday for the third consecutive year, and play was interrupted for nearly two hours during the second set. When they resumed, Djokovic took that set, the only one Nadal lost in the tournament. But the No. 1-ranked Spaniard quickly went ahead in the third set and, really, that was that. 
“He took it away,” Djokovic said, “and he never gave me a chance to go back.” 
Once seen as Roger Federer’s nemesis, the 24-year-old Nadal now has made his own great­ness quite clear. 

“He has the capabilities already now to become the best player ever,” Djokovic said. “I think he’s playing the best tennis that I’ve ever seen him play on hard courts. He has improved his serve drastically — the speed, the accuracy. And, of course, his baseline (game) is as good as ever.” 
Nadal stretched his Grand Slam winning streak to 21 matches by adding the U.S. Open to his titles at the French Open in June, then Wimbledon in July. No man had won those three tournaments in the same year since Rod Laver won a true Grand Slam in 1969. Now Nadal heads to the Australian Open in January with a chance to claim a Rafa Slam of four consecutive major championships — some­thing that also hasn’t been done since Laver. 
No. 3 Djokovic, the 2008 Australian Open champion and 2007 U.S. Open runner-up, made Nadal earn it. The Serb played superbly for long stretch­es, showing off the terrific returning, retrieving and big forehand he used to knock off 16-time Grand Slam champion Federer in Saturday’s semifi­nals. 
Coming out of the rain delay with Djokovic serving at 4-all, 30-all in the second set, both players clearly benefited from a bit of rest. Fresh of body and clear of mind, and with condi­tions perfect for tennis — calm and cool, the temperature in the 70s — they were superb, engag­ing in 10-, 15-, 20-stroke points that drew standing ovations and camera flashes from the stands, no matter who hit the winner. 
And there were winners aplenty at both ends — 49 by 

MLB 

Single run gives Mets slim win over Pirates 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Pinch-hitter Nick Evans singled home the winning run off Chan Ho Park in the 10th inning to give the New York Mets a 1-0 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates on Monday night. 
Evans, with three hits in 11 at-bats this season, drove in Ruben Tejada, a .188 hitter who had a one-out double. Jose Tabata field­ed Evans’ hit off Park (1-2) in shallow left, but his throw was off line and Tejada scored easily. 
Hisanori Takahashi (9-6) pitched two innings to run his scoreless streak to 12 outings and 13 1-3 innings. He got help from a caught stealing in the ninth after a walk, and in the 10th, when Andrew McCutchen led off with a double but was thrown out at third trying to advance on a bunt. 
The victory was the Mets’ sixth in their last at-bat. 
With the New York Jets playing their NFL season opener on Monday Night Football, the Yankees at Tampa Bay for first place in the AL East, Jay-Z and Eminem rhyming in the ballpark in the Bronx and the U.S. Open men’s final taking place across the street from Citi Field, there was little interest in a rain-delayed matchup between anemic offenses. 

In fact, the Mets posted a mes­sage on the scoreboard during the second inning inviting the sparse crowd that waited out a 43­minute delay at the start to fill the pricey seats behind the dugouts. 
Those who did make it saw two young pitchers, the Mets’ Dillon Gee and Pittsburgh’s James McDonald, make promising starts. 
Starting in place of injured Johan Santana last Tuesday, Gee took a no-hitter into the sixth inning against the Washington Nationals in his major league debut. He wasn’t quiet that effec­tive against the worst-hitting team in the National League. Using a deceptive changeup, the right-hander gave up five hits — two weak doubles just inside third-base line — and walked four, one intentionally. He put runners on base in five innings and loaded them in the fourth. 
Gee was pulled after 106 pitch­es. 
While Mets manager Jerry Manuel said that September try­outs are not necessarily a good indicator of big league success, Gee thus far has earned himself a more serious look next spring — especially with Santana having shoulder surgery Tuesday that likely will keep him out for the start of next season. 

Tuesday, September 14, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
as they look ahead to their next make it work.” Sunday, while McGlinn will game went on. Overall, we look game against Badin. Rather, Pasquerilla West side square off with Interhall pow-pretty good this year.” 
Pangborn 

“When I think of Howard was closer to perfection and erhouse Pasquerilla West. Farley will be back in action continued from page 16 football, I look up to the sky added new meaning to its slo-facing off against Cavanaugh 
and think that must be the gan “West is Best” as they Farley 6, Lyons 0 next week, while Lyons will Pangborn territory, giving the limit,” Schoenhut said. “I scored two touchdowns in the Farley took advantage of look to get in the win column Bullfrogs great field position. expect nothing less than our last two minutes to seal the win strong defensive play and one against Breen-Phillips. 
The defensive effort from accomplishments from last and crush the hopes of the ane-timely touchdown pass to down Whelan wasn’t enough howev-year. We are looking to repeat, mic Welsh Family offense. Lyons 6-0 Sunday. Cavanaugh 6, BP 0 er, as Pangborn continued to and our quest to return to Despite the successful open-Farley senior Molly In an opening game that fea­pile on points with their experi-glory has begun.” ing to the season, Hawley is Casanova, nicknamed “One Big tured a young Breen-Phillips enced offensive attack en route Howard will face Badin next trying to keep his eyes on the Play” by the Finest’s coaching facing a defensively stout to the big win. Bailey believes Sunday, while Lewis will face prize following the opening staff, caught a pass across the Cavanaugh team, one play experience will be key for Pasquerilla East in the Pyros’ win. middle and ran 80 yards for a made the difference as Pangborn as they look to join first game. “No one is going to stop us touchdown with only two min-Cavanaugh squeaked out a 6-0 the elite of women’s Interhall. this year,” Hawley said. “We utes left in the first half for the victory. 
“On both the offensive and PW 26, Welsh Fam 6 are going to get back to the game’s only score. The Finest The Chaos’ (1-0) first drive defensive side of the ball, we Last year, Pasquerilla West championship game and the (1-0) were unable to convert was stifled by the Babes’ (0-1) have great leaders,” Bailey ended the season with a sour girls know that. If they didn’t, the two-point conversion, but stingy defense, but they found said. “Going into the game we taste in its mouth after losing they wouldn’t be here now.” were able to make the big their breakthrough moment knew that this was a new year to perennial power Howard in Welsh Family will enjoy a bye offensive play stand up for the midway through the first half for us and we were ready.” the championship game. But in week next weekend, while P.W. rest of the game. when junior quarterback 
Badin will get back in action their opener Sunday, the will look to extend their win “We want to score early and Rebecca Cink connected with against defending champion Purple Weasels displayed their streak to two against McGlinn often because the team that senior wide receiver Holly Hinz Howard next Sunday, while desire for a return to the title on Sunday. would score more points would in the right corner of the end Pangborn has a bye week game in a dominating 26-6 win have a better opportunity to zone. On the play, Cink set up before facing Howard on Sept. over Welsh Family at the LaBar McGlinn 12, Ryan 0 win,” Farley coach Kevin Ritt as a receiver, and took a pitch 
26. Fields. In a classic quarterback duel, said at the beginning of the on the left side of the field. Wielding its deceptive triple-McGlinn junior quarterback game. Once she got the ball, Cink Howard 18, Lewis 6 option offense, P.W. (1-0) Lauren Miller bested Ryan Despite Ritt’s wishes, the drifted to the right, where Hinz 
The defending women’s moved up and down the field sophomore Maya Pillai in a 12-game started as a defensive had broken free of her defend­interhall champions Howard with relative ease, controlling 0 Shamrock win. battle, and both offenses strug-er and was wide open to haul were back to their usual win-time of possession and racking Both McGlinn (1-0) and Ryan gled early. The game was in the touchdown pass. ning ways Sunday, defeating up 150 yards of offense on an (0-1) had trouble crossing the scoreless until Farley senior “We were just trying to find Lewis 18-6. aggressive Welsh Family (0-1) goal line in the first half. quarterback Emily Murphy open looks and come off of the 
The defenses dominated in defense. But the real story McGlinn’s offense relied early threw the touchdown pass to first half strong,” Hinz said. the early going until Howard came from the crippling P.W. and often on the passing Casanova to put the Finest on After being taking the lead, (1-0) senior quarterback Caitlin defense, which held the prowess of Miller. She showed the scoreboard. the Cavanaugh defense made it Robinson threw a 20-yard Whirlwinds to minus-17 yards off her strong arm numerous Farley carried the momen-stick for the remainder of the touchdown pass to her 6-foot-1 of rushing and only 49 total times in the first half, tossing tum from the scoring play into game, holding Breen-Phillips sophomore receiver Laura yards. deep incomplete passes down the second half, and had a scoreless by pressuring the Coletti. The chemistry between “The defense came out to the field as the Shamrocks strong drive after back-to-back quarterback and knocking the two players was on display play today just as we expected. looked to break through and 15-yard completions from down numerous pass attempts. again early in the second half We are here to show that we get on the scoreboard. Murphy to senior wide receiver Two interceptions helped the when Robinson threw a perfect are the best in the league.” McGlinn’s fortunes changed Kelly Weber. On the next play, Chaos keep the game scoreless. goal-line fade route pass to Purple Weasels coach Ryan early in the second half of the Murphy went back to Casanova In the first half, senior Mary Coletti for their second score of Hawley said. “We showed what scoreless contest. On the sec-for a 20-yard pass, followed by Kate Howard kept Cavanaugh’s the game. we are all about, which is play-ond offensive drive of the half, another completion from momentum going by picking off 
“In addition to my height, our ing as one defensive unit.” Miller tossed a 67-yard deep Murphy to junior wide receiver a pass on BP’s very first play coaches called a great play The P.W. defense was nothing ball to sophomore Emily Katelyn Vitale for 30 yards. after Cavanaugh’s touchdown. down there,” Coletti said. less than spectacular, not Golden, who caught the ball in Farley made it all the way to In the second half, senior Sara 
The friendship between allowing a single yard in the stride and sprinted in for a the goal line, but was whistled Harker intercepted a pass on Robinson and Coletti is appar-second half until two minutes touchdown to give the for penalties on two consecu-BP’s opening drive. Hinz was ent both on and off the field. remaining, when the game was Shamrocks a 6-0 lead. tive plays to push the ball back complimentary of the way her 
“Living across the hall, we already wrapped up. “We had been emphasizing to the 30-yard line. team’s defensive unit played. have always looked out for one Offensively, the day belonged to short passes and routes for Capitalizing on the miscues, “They played strong and car-another,” Robinson said. sophomore running back/wide most of the drive up to that the Lions (0-1) stopped Farley’s ried us through the entire “Laura is a great team player, receiver Alice Yerokun, who point, so we decided to try a momentum with an intercep-game,” Hinz said. “They did and our shared desire of win-gained 105 yards of total deep pass,” Miller said. “Emily tion and 40-yard return by jun-everything that was asked of ning makes it all the better.” offense, using her speed to ran a perfect route and all I ior Carolyn Henderson. On them and more.” 
Looking to answer Coletti’s maneuver around defenders. had to do was toss her the Lyons’ first play of the drive, The Babes still took a lot touchdown grabs, Lewis sopho-“I definitely could not have ball.” however, Farley’s Claire Kuney away from their first game of more quarterback Connaught done it without my team, espe-On the next drive, Pillai made intercepted Lyons’ quarterback the season with a young squad. Blood challenged the stout cially [senior quarterback] two big gains immediately, but Christina Biamanti. The Finest Freshman southpaw Sienna Howard defense by running Simone Bigi,” Yerokun said. both were called back due to were unable to capitalize, Combs started at quarterback, multiple draw and option “She was the one that set up penalties, which plagued Ryan though, and punted with eight and proved that she had range plays. The Chicks’ offense, led the plays and everyone else all day. After some dangerous minutes remaining. and running ability. Their by Blood and sophomore line-just kept working to help the gains by the Wildcats, the Down by only six, Lyons still defense proved strong for the man Taylor Sticha, was able to team.” Shamrock defense began to had a chance to win, but the most part, getting many sacks produce one scoring drive, Despite its offensive inconsis-bear down, led by their ball-clock would turn out to be its and coming up with a big inter-capped off by a Blood touch-tency, Welsh Family fought to hawking defensive backfield. worst enemy. Biamanti threw a ception in Cavanaugh’s end down scramble, but it was not stay in the game with a 45-Sophomore defensive back 20-yard strike to sophomore zone, preventing a touchdown. enough to pull even. yard touchdown pass early on Caitlin Day led the effort, pick-Kara Mathis followed by a 20-As for their goals for the 
The new offensive strategy, in the first half to tie the game ing off Pillai and running the yard run by senior Neva Lundy. year, the focused and experi­implemented by Ducks’ head at six. That was the closest ball back for a crucial touch-Unfortunately for the Lions, enced Cavanaugh team has its coach Fritz Schoenhut, seemed they would get, though, as the down to give McGlinn a 12-0 Lundy’s run was called back eye on the prize. to throw off the Lewis (0-1) Whirlwinds were shut out for lead. The McGlinn defense after she was penalized for “We’re looking to make it to defense. Their offense confused the remainder of the game. intercepted another pass later lowering her shoulder into the [championship game in the Lewis defense by lining up Though Pasquerilla West held in the half, and held off the Farley’s defense. After the set-Notre Dame] Stadium,” Cink in a different formation for a 13-6 halftime lead, a Ryan offensive attack for the back, Biamanti fired a 20-yard said. “For now, though, we just each play. In addition to the Whirlwind comeback looked remainder of the game to pre-pass to junior Carolyn have to take it one game at a multiple formations, the hurry-possible as Welsh Family made serve the season-opening victo-Henderson. With Lyons knock-time.” up style offense had the Lewis two consecutive defensive ry. ing on the door, Farley junior Both teams will be back in defense in shambles at times, stands, but was never able to Pillai said the Wildcat players linebacker Katie Smith inter-action next Sunday, as BP takes as touchdown-saving tackles mount anything on the offen-were upset about the loss, but cepted Biamanti to secure the on Lyons, while Cavanaugh will from sophomore linebacker sive side of the ball with behind her dual-threat ability, win for her squad. face off with Farley. Mara Catlaw and sophomore minus-2 yards of total offense they hope to improve in the The Finest were happy with a safety Katie Hennessy on in the second half, falling short coming weeks in only their sec-win, and were pleased with the Contact Chris Allen at Coletti receptions kept Lewis of coach Bobby Sullivan’s call ond season. opening win. callen10@nd.edu, Adam Llorens from falling even further to perfection. “We have a lot to improve “We played really well and at allorens@nd.edu, Andrew behind. In the end, Howard “I expect nothing but perfec-on,” Pillai said. “But we are we just have to keep working. Gastelum at had a total of nine plays of over tion out there today,” Sullivan better than last year and we The defense played really well agastelum1@nd.edu, David 25 yards, while the Chicks only said before the game. “We had good offensive movement including Elise Jordan, Analise Kenney at dkenney1@nd.edu, managed five. thought we had more time to today.” Althoff, and Katie Smith,” Ritt Ian Garrahy at igarrahy@nd.edu 
Schoenhut said the win gave practice and we have a new Ryan will look to get in the said. “Our offensive line started and Laura Coletti at Howard the Ducks confidence offense this year but we will win column against Walsh next off slow, but improved as the lcoletti@nd.edu 
three holes in a row, starting Hudson holds overall individ-today, though. They stayed that of the six Irish golfers with the ninth hole, to set ual lead in the tournament. very, very patient and commit-participating in the 
McNamara 

himself up for a low round. Hudson fired two rounds ted to their shots extremely Invitational, the four best continued from page 16 McNamara’s two-round score under par to post a two-round well.” scores for the tournament will 
of 143 led the Irish, followed score of five-under 139. The performances of the be counted. tournament-low 68 helped by Platt’s 144, junior Chris “The afternoon round was a young Irish squad have them The final round of the tour-him move into a tie for third Walker’s 146, junior Max solid one, but still one in sitting one stroke ahead of nament gets underway at 8:30 on the individual leaderboard Scodro’s 151, senior Jeff which we dropped a couple of North Carolina State going a.m. today. and was the catalyst for Notre Chen’s 154 and junior Tom shots coming in,” Kubinski into the tournament’s final Dame’s 284 in the afternoon Usher’s 157. Host College of said. “Paul, Niall Platt and round. The six-count-four for-Contact Chris Allen at session. The junior birdied Charleston’s John Duke Chris Walker did a great job mat of the tournament means callen10@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 14, 2010 
Rakes 
continued from page 16 
best coaches in the nation, taking a winning program 
over and winning some more, ” Staub said. “The Irish women are always competing in the College Cup and winning the Big East. We will show our support through song, chants, music and flags.” 
Staub said the club idea developed during a year off between his freshman and sophomore years at Notre Dame as he was taking classes at Seton Hall. While attending Pirates soccer games, he noticed a contin­gent of five students chanti­ng and singing, accompanied with a drum. 
Inspired by the students at Seton Hall, Staub added that the seed for the Rakes was planted at a much earlier age. 
“In 2002, I remember my dad waking me up at absurd hours to watch USA in the World Cup,” he said. “At this point I became a more involved soccer fan. The 2006 Cup sealed the deal, as I watched USA [against] Italy and saw [Brian] McBride take an elbow in the face. I became a big soccer fan from that point on.” 
After meeting with engi­neering professor and soccer fanatic Ramzi Bualuan and gauging interest from fellow students on campus, Staub submitted a formal proposal that was approved the week leading up to Activities Night. Three hundred signups later, the Rakes have become one of the fastest growing clubs on campus. 
Although students may not recognize the club’s name, they may be more familiar with the tune Rakes of Mallow is named after — the traditional “jig” played at chaotic, but enjoy their young days in the town of Mallow of County Cork,” Staub said. “That’s how I saw what the Rakes could be like — people that bring organized chaos to create atmosphere at [Notre Dame] matches.” 

So far the Rakes have been well received by Waldrum and his squad. Making their debut in the season opener against Santa Clara on Sep. 3, the Rakes packed the house and lent their support to a 1-0 Irish victory. 
“The energy on the field was so different than it’s ever been,” Waldrum said after the game. “To hear them come in, and the bag­pipes playing, and the horns blowing … to see all those guys and girls behind the goals of the opposition — it’s uplifting and it’s that atmos­phere that you want at a soccer game.” 
Irish sporting events. 

“It is a song about youthful Contact Chris Masoud at individuals who are a little cmasoud@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 

Belles head to Thornapple Pointe 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a second-place finish in their first MIAA match of the season, the No. 5 Belles will look to reclaim the top spot in the confer­ence at Thornapple Pointe Golf Club. 
On Saturday, the Belles were beaten by No. 12 Olivet at the first MIAA Jamboree. 
Belles coach Mark Hamilton said a certain degree of that finish was a result of inclement weather. 
“Better weather allows better players to 
make good shots,” Hamilton said. He fully expects Saint Mary’s to come out and play much better today. 
“We’re really anxious to get back out there, ” Hamilton said. “We’re a bet­ter team and we want to go out and make a bunch of birdies.” 
Despite the second place finish, Hamilton said the Belles still played good golf. 
“If we play just as well as we did in the rain Saturday, we should win [today], ” Hamilton said. 
Today marks the second of four MIAA Jamborees. Because each team in the conference participates in 

“They know they played pretty well Saturday.” 
Mark Hamilton Belles coach 
these matches, every shot and every round counts cumula­tively toward conference standings. If the Belles want to return to familiar terri­tory atop the MIAA, they will need to play 
slightly better than last weekend. 
Hamilton knows that the players understand the importance of these match­es, as well. 
“They know they played pretty well Saturday, ” Hamilton said. “We don’t like getting beat by confer­ence foes.” 
Hamilton said the Belles’ mindset is focused on win­ning and winning alone. Saint Mary’s prides itself on being one of the best golf programs in Division III, and national prominence starts with conference dominance. Today will be another opportunity for the Belles to prove their mettle. 
Senior captain Mary Kate Boyce and freshman Marin Beagley tied for second on Saturday, and expect to pace the Belles again today. Fellow senior captain Rosie O’Connor handed in the eighth highest score Saturday, so she will look to creep back into the top spots. 
Calvin will play host for the Jamboree as the Belles tee off today at 1 p.m. at Thornapple Pointe Golf Club. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
Bandy 
continued from page 16 

a better athlete than I realized and can hurt you off the ground. Matt Dooley is very athletic and has a very complete game. He simply needs to cut down on his errors while continuing to play his natural aggressive all-court game. These guys are going to impact us tremendously this year.” 
This weekend, the Irish will be traveling to two different early season invitationals — the Illinois Invitational and the Purdue Invitational. 
Associate head coach Ryan Sachire will take half the team to Purdue, and Bayliss will take the other half to the Illinois Invitational. 
Last season the Irish wrapped up the Illinois Invitational with six individual singles wins including an impressive win for junior Casey Watt over Illinois’ Connor Roth in three sets. 
“The two events this weekend are on different surfaces,” Bayliss said. “The Illinois Invitational is at Olympia Fields Country Club on clay courts, which will be an adjustment for most of our guys. The other teams all spent time in last sea­son’s top 20 — Wake Forest, 
Watson 
continued from page 16 

to contribute to the team, whether in big ways or just by doing the little things. She has been a quiet example for other runners to look up to as she goes about the sport the right way. 
As a freshman, Watson was competing against stronger competition than she had com­peted against high school. She did not waver however, and continued to persevere through the trials. 
“The main thing that I told her early on was to work hard and be patient, which is what she has done for four years,” Connelly said. 
The years of hard work finally began to pay off as she improved to become a regular contributor to the team. She finally began collecting points for the Irish in the meets as she continued to put forth the effort. 
Illinois, Alabama, and Florida State — so we are excited about the level of competition, and it should tell us where we are going into the year. 
“The Purdue Invitational includes more teams and will be a flighted format. We expect to have the best team we have fielded in several years, and I am excited to see how we stack up.” 
Bayliss noted that winning at the top of the lineup, as well as consistently earning the doubles point, will be key for the Irish throughout the season. 
“We need to build a toughness in our doubles identity that was missing much of the season,” Bayliss said. “Our strength coach, Chris Sandeen, is doing a great job, and I am confident we will be physically ready pretty soon and for the remainder of the year. I feel that Ryan Sachire is as good as any coach in the country, including head coaches, so I think he gives us an edge as well. At this time, everybody on all teams is excited and working hard.” 
Notre Dame will look to show some of their big hitters this weekend before heading to the Harvard Invitational the first weekend in October. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 

When working hard, it’s pos­sible to over-train and eventu­ally tax the body. Watson has watched herself and come to know when she may need to slow down, which is not typi­cally done in a race. 
“She has been very intelli­gent in her training, push[ing] hard when she was able to and back[ing] off when she needed to recover,” Connelly said. “As a result, she has avoided many injuries and has been able to have a steady progression. 
Her hard work has paid off in running and has affected other members of the team. She has had a positive effect upon the younger runners and has become an excellent leader for the team. 
During her career, Watson has given the Irish three years of consistency, and she has moved from a rather quiet freshman to become a more vocal team leader. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 
NHL 

Devils penalized for signing Kovalchuk with heavy contract 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. — The NHL has harshly penalized the New Jersey Devils for signing Ilya Kovalchuk to 17-year, $102 million contract that cir­cumvented the league’s salary cap. 
Commissioner Gary Bettman fined the Devils $3 million and took away two draft picks, including a first-rounder of New Jersey’s choice sometime in the next four years. 
The Devils also will lose a third-round draft pick next year. 
Devils president and chief executive Lou Lamoriello issued a statement late Monday, insisting the team had done nothing wrong. He disagreed with Bettman’s decision. 

The NHL had the right to discipline the Devils after arbitrator Richard Bloch ruled on Aug. 9 that Kovalchuk’s free-agent contract constitut­ed a circumvention of the NHL/NHLPA collective bar­gaining agreement. The league’s biggest problem with the deal was that the 27-year­old Russian star was to be paid only $550,000 in each of the final six years of the deal. 
“We were today advised of the ruling by the commission­er with respect to the Kovalchuk matter,” Lamoriello said in a state­ment. “We disagree with the decision. We acted in good faith and did nothing wrong. We will have no further com­ment.” 
It was not immediately clear if the Devils can appeal the ruling. 
The fine will not count against the Devils' salary cap, a decision the league and the NHL Players’ Association reached earlier this month in working out an amendment on long-term contracts. 
That amendment paved the way for the league to approve a 15-year, $100 million con­tract that the Devils and Kovalchuk reworked after Bloch’s arbitration ruling. 
The NHL said it now consid­ered the matter closed and will have no further comment, including anything on its dis­ciplinary action. 
When the Devils decide to give up their first-round pick, they must tell the league by the day after the Stanley Cup finals in that year. 
The Devils originally signed the high-scoring left winger to what would have been a land­mark deal in July. It would have kept Kovalchuk under contract until he was 44. 
The league immediately rejected the deal, noting that paying the Russian All Star such a low salary in each of the final five years violated the league’s salary cap because it drove down New Jersey’s annual salary cap hit. 
The players’ association filed a grievance against the league, but Bloch sided with the league after hearing from both sides. 
The Devils and Kovalchuk reworked the contract and settled on the revised 15-year deal earlier this month. The NHL approved it after reach­ing an agreement with the players association on the amendment covering long­term contracts. 
With 338 goals and 304 assists in 642 career NHL games, Kovalchuk was the biggest prize on the free agent market this season. He had 41 goals and 44 assists in 2009­10, a season he split between Atlanta and the Devils, who acquired him in a multiplayer deal in February. 
The new deal will put a $6.67 million annual hit on the Devils’ salary cap and put the team roughly $3 million over the league limit ($59.4 million) with only 21 players under contract, two under the league limit. 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  31  32  
33  34  35  36  37  
38  39  40  41  42  
43  44  45  46  47  
48  49  50  51  52  
53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  60  61  62  
63  64  65  66  
67  68  69  
70  71  72  

Tuesday, September 14, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD 
Across 33___ & the 1 Male ballroom 
Blowfish 
dancer, 35Part of a jugtraditionally band 
5 Total 37Lockup 10Laundry unit 38Objective 14Not ___ many 
39Activity words associated with 

15___ Granada the word ladder (old Spanish formed by 1-, colony in the 10-, 70- and 72­
Americas) Across 16Org. for Annika 42What a swish Sorenstam 
shot swishes 17Oyster ___ 
43Ton 18Cooler, to a hip­45Mary ___ of
hopper 
cosmetics 19Broccoli 

46Battlefield shout 
centers? 48Grand ___
20Goal of 39­National Park 
Across 50___-ray Discs 
23Whitman or Whittier 52Glasgow 24Gives a leg up negations 27Swipe at the 53Decorates store 55Tirade 29Bucks and rams 5739-Across, for 32Extreme one 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


63 Latin lover's word? 65 “Shut up!” 66 Ski-___ (snowmobiles)67 “Not a chance” 
68 Ryan of “TheBeverlyHillbillies” 
69 Subdivision map 70 Incite 71 Sniggled72 Olympic prize 
Down 
1 Tilt 2 ___'acte 3 Between ports 4 Rehearsed 
perfectly 5 Manga-like artform 6 Lake Superiorport7 Shoulder 
muscle, briefly 8 Sclera neighbor 9 Second section 
10 Rapper bornJames Todd Smith 
11 Batting position12 AARP membership 
concern 13 “___ Kapital”21 Braga of
Hollywood22 Letters from a short person?25 Judges and
juries26 Dirty27 Dirty28 Dice roller's 
exclamation 

WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Peter A. Collins 
30___ alcohol 47Like most of the 59Audi alternative Harry Potter 
31Litigate 60Part of a pleafilms33“___ luego” 

49Havana-to-Miami 61Mine find 34Lodge member dir. 
62Abbr. on a city36Audi alternative 51Bearlike limit sign 
40Trucker's place 54“The World of ___ Wong” 63Oscar-winning 
41Greek New Age director Lee 
musician 56Wasn't passive 44Wool variety 58Ominous 64Jersey greeting? 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


JEFF KNUREK
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Tuesday, September 14, 2010 page 16 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Rakes of Mallow rise up 
Soccer fans unite to form student group 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Under the leadership of Irish coach Randy Waldrum, atten­dance has never been an issue at Alumni Stadium, as crowd turnout usually goes hand-in­hand with winning. Yet a grow­ing group of students are tak­ing soccer fandom to the next level. 
Inspired by their passion for soccer, the Rakes of Mallow is a newly organized and officially recognized club on campus dedicated to supporting the men’s and women’s soccer pro­grams. Serving a function simi­lar to the Leprechaun Legion, the “Rakes” look to create an intimidating atmosphere that founder Timothy Staub hopes will mirror the dedication of fans displayed in the recent World Cup. 

“Coach Waldrum is one of the PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Women’s soccer fans cheer on the Irish as they take on North Carolina on Dec. 4, 2009. This see RAKES/page 14 season students have formed the Rakes of Mallow to draw in a larger audience. 

MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish head out to dual invites 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 

The Irish hope to build on last season’s success with a strong returning cast. With their entire lineup returning and the addition of talented freshmen to the mix, Notre Dame expects to have the depth it needs to compete on the highest level. 
“The freshmen are doing really well,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “Greg Andrews has one of the better forehands you will see this year and has become better moving forward and finishing at the net. Billy Pecor has a big game, hitting with power from both sides. All he needs to do is play within himself and continue to take advan­tage of his opportunities to move forward. Ryan Bandy is 
see BANDY/page 14 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Pangborn starts off season with complete domination 
By CHRIS ALLEN, ADAM LlORENS, ANDREW GASTELUM, DAVID KENNEY, IAN GARRAHY and LAURA COLETTI 
Pangborn 40, Badin 6 
A steady stream of defensive pressure that led to four inter­ceptions powered Pangborn to a season-opening 40-6 rout of Badin on Sunday at LaBar Fields. 

The game, which served as the opening contest of the 2010 women’s Interhall football schedule, got off to a quick start as senior quarterback Gabby Tate marched the Phoxes (1-0) down the field quickly against the Bullfrogs’ (0-1) inexperienced defensive corps. Tate finished off the opening drive with a touch­down run to give Pangborn an early lead. Sophomore offen­sive lineman Colleen Bailey credits last year’s disappoint­ing season for the positive momentum Pangborn opened the game with. 
“Since the end of last season, we all agreed that we really wanted to go to the [champi­onship game in Notre Dame] Stadium,” Bailey said. “That helped us come out of the gate with a great attitude in this first game.” 
The defensive unit ensured that Pangborn’s early lead would remain intact as the Phoxes harassed Badin junior 
ND WOMEN’S CROSS COUNTRY 
Senior Watson’s hard work pays off 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame senior Erica Watson has been on a journey since her arrival as a fresh­man and now, in her final year, she looks to show every­one that hard work does pay off. 
Coming in from high school, Erica was not the most highly touted runner in her class. In fact, she was competing against many other runners who had far better résumés. 
“She came from a good high school, so she understood what it meant to be a contrib­utor to a strong team,” Irish coach Tim Connelly said. 
Watson knew what it meant 
see WATSON/page 14 


quarterback Sylvia Banda all day, leading to four intercep­tions. Sophomore Diana Bartone accounted for three of the interceptions, while her fellow sophomore Annie Castner added the fourth. Bartone and Castner each returned an interception for a touchdown. 
“We definitely had great pressure on the quarterback,” Bailey said. “But Diana just seems to have a special talent for finding the ball in the air and picking it off. That should-n’t take away from our line; we do have a great defensive line.” 
After Tate completed a touchdown pass to junior wide receiver Liz Pawlak for a 27-0 halftime lead, the Phoxes played the second half looking to protect their lead. Badin’s lone touchdown in the game came after an interception by sophomore Kerri Whelan that she returned deep into 
see PANGBORN/page 13 
MEN’S GOLF 

Underclassmen help lead Irish at Kiawah 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 

Youth was served on the first day of the College of Charleston Invitational at Kiawah Island, as strong second round performances from sophomore Paul McNamara and freshman Niall Piatt staked the Irish to the overall team lead headed into the final round of the tournament. 
“Both Paul and Niall made their travel squad debut today,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said in a press release. “For rookies, I couldn’t be more impressed with their poise, approach and execution.” 
The tournament, played on the notoriously windy Ocean Course in Kiawah Island, 
S.C. gave golfers from the twelve participating teams fits in the morning round, as the four leading Irish golfers out of a six-man rotation struggled to a first round score of 300, eleven shots behind first round leaders North Carolina State. No Irish golfer shot below 75 in the morning session. 
In the afternoon, better conditions helped the Irish make up the gap and over­take the team lead in the tournament, as McNamara’s 
see MCNAMARA/page 13 





