the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Pro-life task force presents proposals 
Recommendations include University policy statement and president’s participation in March for Life 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
A special task force initiated by University President Fr. John Jenkins last fall presented its pre­liminary recommendations last week on how best to “deepen the pro-life culture” and “strengthen the Notre Dame community’s wit­ness to Catholic teaching on life.” 
The initial recommendations given to Jenkins are described in a press release from last Thursday. 
Among them are calls for the University to adopt a policy state­ment indicating support for Church teaching on life issues, for Jenkins to participate in the national March for Life in Washington, D.C., for undergradu­ate research opportunities on life issues and for the administration to support existing and create new pro-life events and initiatives on campus for the purpose of educa­tion. 
Jenkins convened the Task Force on Supporting the Choice for Life last September, in part in response to the controversy over President Barack Obama’s 2009 Commencement visit. 
Jenkins said in the press release the task force, made up of faculty, administrators and one student, was charged with making recom­mendations on how the University could increase its commitment to “a culture of life,” working with both campus constituencies and 
see TASK FORCE/page 4 




Community commemorates MLK Day 

MARY CECILIA MITSCH | Observer Graphic 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 
Today’s holiday honoring the civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. will be cele­brated both at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s with events including a documentary film, a commemorative march and a theatrical per­formance. 
Stephanie Bridges, assis­tant director of Multicultural Services at the College, said celebrating King’s work is important because it helps highlight the core values of Saint Mary’s. 
“It is especially important 


Observerdiscontinues ‘Mobile Party’comic 
Observer Staff Report 

The Observer Editorial Board has discontinued the publication of the car­toon “The Mobile Party” following the submission and subsequent printing of the offensive Jan. 13 comic strip. See Also 
While accepting 


Observer 
the apology of the primary authors, policy and Notre Dame seniors staff changes Colin Hofman, Jay 

page 10 

Wade and Lauren Rosemeyer, The Observer Editorial Board does not feel the comic strip aligns with community standards in terms of content and taste. 
Per Observer Viewpoint policies, commentaries, including cartoons, sub­mitted to The Observer for publication become property of The Observer unless otherwise discussed with the Editor-in-Chief. The Observer has been made aware of an outside blog authored by the writers of “The Mobile Party” that republished copies of their cartoons as well as cartoons deemed inappropriate for print and correspon­dence between Observer staff and the writers. This blog is in clear violation of Observer policy. 
The Observer staff has been told the blog has since been removed from the Internet. 
Writers of comic strips are typically paid for their submissions to The Observer. “The Mobile Party” authors will not be paid for the offensive sub­mission. 
for the Saint Mary’s College community to celebrate this holiday because of the col­leges core values of Learning, Community, Faith/Spirituality and Justice,” Bridges said. “The life of Dr. King exemplifies all of these things, and what he was able to teach us regarding the importance of fighting for equal justice for all through non violence was phenomenal.” 
At the College, the office of Multicultural Services and Student Programs along with the Sisters of Nefertiti are hosting their annual 
see MLK/page 3 



University to celebrate Moreau’s beatification 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
In honor of the third anniversary of the beatification of Blessed Fr. Basil Moreau, the founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross, the University of Notre Dame will cele­brate with a series on events titled “Holy Cross: Faith in our Future.” 
The celebrations, which will take place this week, will include commemorative Masses, lectures and discussions on the Holy Cross religious order and the vital role Moreau’s mission continues to play today. 
“Fr. Moreau is important because he was instrumental in the direction of the Holy Cross order,” the rector of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Fr. Peter Rocca said. “This University would never have been established without him.” 
Moreau founded the Congregation of the Holy Cross in the 19th century in Le Mans, France. Shortly after the forma­tion, Moreau sent Fr. Edward Sorin to Indiana to establish the University of Notre Dame. 
Rocca said education was one of Moreau’s greatest passions and one of the purposes of celebrating his Feast Day on Jan. 20 is to make the Notre Dame community aware of how this mission is being 
see MOREAU/page 4 


Stinson-Remick opens for classes 
New engineering building offers students high-tech facilities 
By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 
The highly anticipated Stinson-Remick Hall of Engineering opened this January, in time for students returning to campus this semester to attend classes in the new state-of-the-art facility. 
The 142,000-square foot build­ing houses offices for professors, classrooms and other facilities geared toward the engineering population on campus. 
While most of its usage thus far has been by graduate engineering students and freshmen, many undergraduates are eagerly antici­pating their turn to utilize its amenities. 
see BUILDING/page 4 


TOM YOUNG/The Observer A view of the new engineering building, Stinson-Remick Hall, which opened this semester. 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Professor’s blog gives students advice page 3  Tyler Hilton interview page 12  Women’s basketball falls page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, January 18, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 



The dorm bubble 
As all Notre Dame students know, dorm life at the University is unique. At least, no college that I have ever visited has a hous­ing setup like ours. 
The single sex system of 16 men’s dorms and 14 women’s dorms is sometimes criticized for fostering what people like to call “strained gender relations,” but more often, it seems, Notre Dame’s housing sys­tem is praised for creating a close-knit Madeline Buckley community that keeps students on 

News Editor
campus for three or four years. 

For the past two and a half years, my dorm, Breen Phillips Hall, has been a nice little shell, and I never felt the need to expand far beyond my close Breen Phillips friends. 
But then something happened that changed everything. 

Upon returning from studying abroad during the fall semester, most of my friends could not get back into Breen Phillips because of space issues. Instead they are forced to live far away in Badin Hall for a semester before we all move off-campus next year. 
While some people are lucky enough to have many friends all over campus, I have never had to walk even a flight of stairs to see my friends. 
The thought of having to trek across campus in the winter to see my friends was not pleasant at first. But shockingly, after a week of living in a different build­ing than half of my friends, I found that I actually like the change. 
This week, my friends and I did some­thing we have never done before except in rare circumstances: spent time in another female dorm. 
Once a week, I also venture away from the comforting dinnertime routine at North Dining Hall to brave the zoo of South Dining Hall. 
Having friends in Badin is sometimes convenient. Badin is closer than Breen Phillips to Main Circle and CoMo (and therefore free coffee). But more than that, having good friends in another dorm is a break in a routine that has been solidified with years of living on campus. 
At Notre Dame, it is easy to get comfort­able in the routine of dorm life and never venture outside of one’s own residence hall. People talk about Notre Dame being a bubble, but the residence halls can sometimes create an even smaller bubble. 
What I thought would be an inconven­ience has actually become a blessing. Perhaps my friends and I won’t see each other on the days when the wind chill is below zero, but when we do see each other, we have the opportunity to experi­ence the culture of a different dorm — something that has been interesting so far. 
While dorm life at Notre Dame is unique and creates community, it some­times makes it difficult to make friends outside of that community. 
By pure coincidence, the Office of Residence Life and Housing has indirectly forced me to break out of my comfort zone and reminded me how important it is to do that every once in awhile. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO IS GOING TO WIN THE SUPER BOW ? 







Brian Wysokci  John Wachowitz  Charles Kaiser  Greg Morman  Rachel Tran  
junior Fisher  sophomore Stanford  freshman Keenan  freshman Keenan  sophomore Farley  
“J-E-T-S!”  “The biggest winners will be the CBS execs.”  “Da Saints.”  “Vikings. Maybe Brett Favre will finally retire if they win.”  “To be honest, I have no idea who’s in it. I stopped paying attention after the Packers lost.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

TOM LA/The Observer Freshmen Quinn Kilpatrick and Brad Kunisky cheer on their friend, freshman sprinter Brendan Dougherty, at the Notre Dame Indoor Opener track meet Saturday at the Loftus Sports Center. 


OFFBEAT 

Mass. man arrested three times in three days 
ANDOVER, Mass. —A Boston man has been arrested three times in three days in neighboring Massachusetts towns. Huy Quoc Le faces a number of charges after his string of arrests began Monday in Andover. Police said the 25-year-old was arrested on motor vehicle violations. He was charged with driv­ing after suspension, attaching improper plates, forgery of Registry docu­ments and driving an unregistered and unin­sured vehicle. 
On Wednesday, Le was arrested on charges accus­ing him of stealing nearly $10,000 from the business account of an Andover nail salon. 
Hours later, police in nearby Lawrence arrested him on allegations he broke into the home of a former girlfriend after offi­cers found him inside. 
It was unclear if Le had hired an attorney. 
Drunk man dressed like cowboy threatens dog 
IOWA CITY, Iowa, — Iowa City police say a drunken man dressed like a cowboy broke into a house and threatened to kill the resident’s dog. Police said 24-year-old Derrick Thomas Alger of Iowa City was arrested early Thursday morning on charges of trespass, intoxi­cation and carrying a dan­gerous weapon. 
Officers said Alger reportedly threatened a cab driver with a handgun shortly after midnight. They say Alger, who was dressed in shorts, boots and a cowboy hat, fled the scene, but entered the rear door of a private residence, where he demanded to know who the residents were and threatened their barking dog. 

Today Tonight TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 



IN BRIEF 
Mass will be held for the vic­tims of the earthquake in Haiti today at 5:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
“How is Your Heart? Toward a Profound Education,” a Blessed Fr. Basil Moreau lecture, will be held today at 7:30 p.m. in the Andrews Auditorium in Geddes Hall as part of Holy Cross Week. 
The “Expanding the Boundaries: Selected Drawings from the Yvonne and Gabriel P. Weisberg Collection” exhibit will be held at the Snite Museum of Art Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Admission is free. 
Notre Dame President Fr. John  Jenkins and Dean of First Year Studies Rev. Hugh R. Page Jr. will offer prayers in memory of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. today at 4 p.m. in the Rotunda of the Main Building. The Voices of Faith Gospel Choir will provide sacred music and a reception will follow the service. 
Adam Abate, researcher in the Department of Physics and Astronomy at Harvard University, will present a semi­nar on complex systems and emulsion microfluidics Tuesday in room 138 of Debartolo Hall at 3:30 p.m. 
The Creative Writing Department will sponsor a poet­ry reading by English professor Henry Weinfield Wednesday at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore from 7:30 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 

Atlanta 59 / 35 Boston 34 / 27 Chicago 33 / 27 Denver 52 / 32 Houston 68 / 57 Los Angeles 61 / 47 Minneapolis 28 / 15 New York 44 / 33 Philadelphia 50 / 34 Phoenix 66 / 52 Seattle 55 / 34 St. Louis 47 / 36 Tampa 64 / 47 Washington 55 / 35 
Monday, January 18, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Professor blogs advice for students 
Kelly helps students improve their relationships with teachers 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
With graduate school looming on the horizon, many seniors face the task of finding the right professor to write their letters of recommendation. 
To help students struggling with this process, psychology professor Dr. Anita Kelly has been authoring an online blog entitled “The Clever Student,” which gives Notre Dame under­graduates advice on how to interact with their professors. 
Kelly, who has been at Notre Dame since 1994 and writing the blog since Nov. 19, said she has always been passionate about giving advice to students about their relationships with their professors. 
“I’ve always been interested in students and them getting really well-written letters to grad schools,” she said. “I’ve always been doing this but the media is there now.” 
Kelly said the format of the blog is especially effective in reaching out to students in order to give them some views into the world of the professor’s mind. 
“It’s occurred to me that I could communicate more effi­ciently and reach more students on the blog,” Kelly said. 
She said her blog draws on her experiences both as a professor and a psychotherapist. 
Kelly said it is increasingly important that students under­stand how professors perceive them because of what she observes as a changing class­room experience. 
“I perceive a gap is widening between students and profes­sors. Students see themselves as consumers of the classroom experience,” she said. “I care that students get socialized about interactions with profes­sors.” 
The blog highlights the impor­tance of everyday class partici­pation and behavior to a profes­sor’s perception of students, and how that will impact future stu­dent-professor relations, such as with the request of a graduate school recommendation. 
Kelly said she is not afraid to be frank with readers about these issues, as she believes this will ultimately help students. 
“My goal is not saying you have to agree with me. My goal is simply to inform students on how professors are thinking,” she said. 
Kelly said certain student behaviors such as leaving to go the bathroom during class and sitting in the back row are nega­tives in the eyes of professors, which can eventually impact the quality of the student-professor relationship. 
“Professors don’t think you’re cool for sitting in the back. They think you’re a slacker,” Kelly said. “People will peg you as having a certain personality based on a couple of salient behaviors.” 
One of the most important fea­tures of “The Clever Student” blog is it allows student feedback and interaction. Kelly will fre­quently end a blog entry with a question posed to readers, and she finds student feedback has been very important in the growth and definition of the blog. 
“I learn from the students what is on their minds as they post questions and comments,” she said. “It keeps me under­standing where the students are coming from.” 
Kelly uses the student interac­tion aspect of the blog for the purpose of sharing upsetting and confusing experiences they have had with their professors, and allowing them to receive advice on these matters from both Kelly and other students. 
She plans to continue to tackle student-professor relations on her blog, with some outside input. 
“In the future I am going to have guest experts hosting con­versations they are qualified to comment on,” she said. 
Kelly said though a large part of the blog for her is informing students about their relationship with their professors, “The Clever Student” has also helped enrich her career. 
“I consider it a privilege to be a professor at Notre Dame,” she said. “I think the blog is one way to do my job even better.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryker@nd.edu 
MLK 
continued from page 1 

commemorative march in honor of Martin Luther King Jr. The march will begin at 5 
p.m. in the Student Center lounge with the viewing of the Academy Award-nomi­nated film, “The Witness: From the Balcony of Room 306,” which sheds light on the events leading up to King’s assassination. 
“It is always good to acknowl ­edge and rec­
ognize the work of oth­ers who have gone before you to make life better for 
others,” 
Bridges said. The film 
outlines the sanita ti on workers strike that lead King 

“It is always good to University acknowledge and President Fr. John Jenkins 
recognize the work of 
and dean of 

others who have gone 
First Year before you to make Studies Rev. Hugh Page, 
life better for others.” 
professor of theology and Stephanie Bridges Africana assistant director Studies will offer prayers. 
Multicultural Services of 
The Office of 

Saint Mary’s 
Multicultural 

to come to 
Memphis, Tenn, in order to lend his support to the cause. 
The documentary also offers eyewitness accounts from his assassination, Sarah Durica, an assistant in the office of Multicultural Services, said in an e-mail to the student body. 
Following the film there will be a candlelit march around campus ending in Stapleton Lounge to com­memorate Dr. King and his work. 
The memorial continues on Tuesday night at 7 p.m. in the Moreau Little Theater with a theatrical presenta­tion by the Grimes Theatre Group entitled “The Meeting,” which portrays what might have happened had Malcom X and Dr. King had a clandestine meeting before their assassinations. 
Notre Dame will also hold a series of celebrations over the course of the day, begin­ning with a prayer service at 4 p.m. in the Rotunda of the Main Building with a recep­
tion following 
the service. 
Student Programs and Services (MSPS) held a workshop this weekend on “Crossroads Anti-Racism Organizing and Training” to provide strate­gies for eliminating institu­tionalized racism. 
MSPS is also hosting a lec­ture titled “Between Barack and a Hard Place: Racism and White Denial in the Age of Obama,” Jan. 26 at 7:30 
p.m. in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntaylo01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 18, 2010 
including helping with a television in conflict with Church teaching 
commercial that aired nationally on life issues 

Task force 
continued from page 1 
outside groups. 
“I am pleased to report that the task force has been at work, engaging various of these con­stituencies in conversation and studying ways in which the University can articulate its com­mitment effectively and can encourage programming which furthers this commitment,” Jenkins said in the press release. 
Task Force co-chair Margaret Brinig, professor of law and asso­ciate dean at the Law School, told The Observer in December the group would work until the end of the school year. The other co-chair is John Cavadini, professor of the­ology and the director of the Institute for Church Life. 
The group has already worked to implement some of its ideas, Nov. 7 on NBC during the football game against Navy. The commer­cial featured ongoing adult stem cell research at Notre Dame and a statement about the University’s support for Catholic teaching on the sanctity of human life. 
Also per the task force’s recom­mendation, Jenkins will partici­pate in the March for Life on Jan. 22 alongside students from the University. 
The task force also co-hosted, with the Notre Dame Law School, a panel discussion Dec. 3 on con­science clauses and Catholic teaching. 
The recommendations listed in the press release suggest the University: 
 Adopt a policy statement on its support for Church teaching on the sanctity of human life and a policy statement on charitable gifts or investments that could be 
 Make better known to stu­dents, faculty and others its sup­portive policies for pregnant stu­dents 
 Make a public “ witness for life” through the University presi­dent’s participation in the March for Life or a similar event 
 Promote undergraduate research opportunities that address life issues 
 Support the work of students engaged in pro-life activities and support educative efforts like con­ferences or courses 
 Encourage alumni to partici­pate in pro-life activities 
According to the press release, the task force will present an updated and revised list of recom­mendations to Jenkins at the end of the year. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 



Building 
continued from page 1 
“It’ll be really awesome to have classes in Stinson-Remick and it will do a lot for the graduate pro­gram and the prestige of the engineering program as a whole,” sophomore Chemical Engineering major Trey Cryan said. 
Although he does not have any classes in the new building, Cryan said the building has afforded him an extra place to study. 
“I’m really happy about it, it has a lot of really good resources not just for studying but also hav­ing current, modern facilities,” he said. 
According to Notre Dame’s Web site, the $70 million building is home to a nanotechnology research center as well as an undergraduate interdisciplinary learning center. 
In addition, Stinson-Remick is also the home of Notre Dame’s new Energy Center, which is an 11,800 square foot semiconduc­tor processing and device fabri­cation clean room. 
Freshman Mechanical Engineering major Zach Woodruff has class in Stinson-Remick and said he thinks it will help students in the class when they need extra space to work on group projects. 
“I have the learning center in that building, which basically is a big group class where you do more of the hands-on engineer­ing stuff,” he said. 
Woodruff said students encountered some difficulties with trying to complete their final project at the end of last semes­ter in the older engineering building, but with the luxury of space in Stinson-Remick, he doesn’t believe that will occur again. 
“With the new building, on all sides of me there were new areas and chairs with computers and a 55-inch television screen that a student can hook their computer up to so everyone working in the group can see what is going on,” he said. “Especially since we’re going into the programming part of the learning center, it will be nice to have a place and the resources for you to have a suc­cessful and efficient meeting.” 
Both Cryan and Woodruff said some areas of the building appear to be unfinished, but they anticipate that with its comple­tion the building will be even bet­ter. 
“A lot of things seem a bit unfinished now — there’s no name on the outside anywhere, and when you walk inside it’s clear that there’s wires hanging out of the ceiling,” Woodruff said. “I can see it definitely being more completed in a few months or so.” 
Contact Liz O’Donnell at eodonne1@nd.edu 


Moreau 
continued from page 1 
lived out today at the University. 
“Part of our mission as educa­tors at this school is to provide an education that doesn’t just touch mind but that touches the heart as well,” Rocca said. “Education at most schools doesn’t touch on the faith aspects, but Holy Cross is about living out this education mis­sion of Fr. Moreau so Notre Dame is going to be different.” 
Fr. Gregory Haake, who has studied the life and works of Moreau, said the communal vision Moreau had for his order is very visible and characterizes the atmosphere of Notre Dame’s cam­pus. 
“Fr. Moreau formed his order based on his vision of the Holy Family,” Haake said. “It is not a coincidence that the sense of fami­ly translate to Notre Dame today; it is a direct result of Fr. Moreau’s vision for the Congregation of Holy Cross.” 
Haake will preside over the com­memorative Mass on Jan. 20. He said his homily will discuss Moreau’s sense of mission that motivated him throughout his life. 
“It’s always been difficult to characterize Holy Cross because Fr. Moreau’s mission was simply to meet the needs of the community,” he said. “The desire to meet needs wherever they are was what drove Fr. Moreau to find the order in the first place.” 
Many of the lectures scheduled for the week will discuss the motto of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, “Ave Crux Spes Unica” and its contemporary meaning. 
“Our motto translates as ‘Hail to the Cross, our only hope’ and it shows how the cross is essential to the life of any Christian,” Rocca said. “Fr. Moreau tried to show us that through the Cross we’re saved but that we are invited to carry other people’s Crosses.” 
Haake says he believes that “Ave Crux Spes Unica” is a very simple principle that gives innumerable advantages. 
“A life anchored in Christ and the Cross means that one can do anything,” he said. “As Holy Cross religious members we try to live our ordinary lives with extraordi­nary virtue.” 
Both men believe the mission of the Cross continues to be fulfilled by the student body at Notre Dame. 
“At graduation, 10 percent of our students go into volunteer service,” Rocca said. “I think that’s a testament to our students living out Fr. Moreau’s mission.” 
Haake said he hopes learning more about Fr. Moreau and his works during this celebration week will help the student body to understand that the educational mission of Moreau affects their daily lives during their time at Notre Dame. 
“If we want to be true to Fr. Moreau’s mission for education then Notre Dame students should leave here not just to be successful in their careers but to also be suc­cessful in virtue,” Haake said. “I hope that the University inspires a zeal for the mission that Fr. Moreau left us and that we can transform the students on that level.” 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 


World & Nation 
Monday, January 18, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Mexican police find human head 
CULIACAN, Mexico — A severed human head and a flower have been found in front of the tomb of deceased drug lord Arturo Beltran Leyva in northern Mexico. 
Prosecutors in Sinaloa state say the man’s headless body was found in a plastic bag atop the tomb of another drug trafficker in the Jardines del Humaya cemetery in Culiacan. 
Prosecutors’ spokesman Martin Gastelum says the severed head had a flower tucked behind one ear. It had been carefully placed in front of the entrance gate to Beltran Leyva’s elaborate, multistory crypt. 
Police found it after receiving a telephone tip. Beltran Leyva was killed in a Dec. 16 shootout with Mexican marines. 
France proposes ban of full veils 
PARIS — The head of President Nicolas Sarkozy’s party said Sunday he wants a law to ensure that Muslim women who wear face-cov­ering veils do not acquire French nationality. 
Xavier Bertrand, head of the conservative UMP party, said the full veil “is simply a prison for women who wear it” and “will make no one believe” a woman wearing it wants to integrate. 
France is moving closer to banning such veils, even though only a tiny minority of Muslim women wear them. A top UMP lawmaker last week filed legislation to ban the garb, and a parliamentary committee studying the issue for the past six months is to turn in its report on whether a law is needed by the end of the month. That panel mixes politicians from both the left and right. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

No inmates released from R.I. prisons 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. — A federal program allowing illegal immigrant inmates to get out of prison if they agree to be deported hasn’t resulted in a single person leaving jail early in Rhode Island. 
The program was trumpeted by Gov. Don Carcieri as a way to save money. Similar pro­grams have saved millions of dollars in Georgia and Arizona. 
But a year and a half after Rhode Island signed up, no one’s been deported early because of the relatively small population of imprisoned illegal immigrants and the strict program criteria. 
Prison officials say the program works but they haven’t yet found an eligible inmate. 
Critics of Carcieri’s 2008 crackdown on ille­
gal immigrants question whether the governor 
exaggerated the scope of the problem locally. 
Search halted for boat victims 
SAN DIEGO — The Coast Guard has sus­pended its search for more potential victims of the crash of a small boat packed with sus­pected illegal immigrants off the San Diego coast. 
One person died when the 30-foot boat 
overturned before dawn Saturday in the surf 
at Torrey Pines State Park. 

Coast Guard Petty Officer Henry Dunphy says boats and helicopters spent 32 hours searching 144 square miles for other sur­vivors. 
U.S. Customs and Border Protection says 16 people, all Mexican citizens, have been accounted for. It's unclear how many people were aboard the boat before the crash. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Crash shows need for stricter laws 
MISHAWAKA — Advocates for stricter laws against people who drink and drive say an Indiana police officer’s recent car crash death blamed on an alleged drunken driver shows once again why tougher laws are needed. 
Thirty-one-year-old Shawn Devine is charged in connection with the Jan. 9 death of 42-year-old Cpl. James Szuba. 
Prosecutors say Devine’s blood-alcohol level was nearly three times the legal limit when his car struck Szuba’s police cruiser, killing the officer and his police dog during a pursuit. 
HAITI 

Violence hinders aid efforts 
U.N., international troops focus on rescue efforts, delivery of supplies to Haiti 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON, D.C. — Some incidents of violence in Haiti have hindered rescue workers trying to help earthquake victims, a top official leading the 
U.S. 
government’s relief efforts said Sunday. 

Providing humanitarian aid requires a safe and secure environment, said Lt. Gen. Ken Keen of the 

U.S. 
Southern Command. While streets have been largely calm, he said, vio­lence has been increasing. 


“We are going to have to address the situation of security,” Keen said. “We’ve had incidents of violence that impede our ability to support the gov­ernment of Haiti and answer the challenges that this country faces.” 
Keen said about 1,000 
U.S. troops are in Haiti and that 3,000 more are working from ships. More than 12,000 U.S. forces are expected to be in the region by Monday. 
Fear of looters and rob­bers has been one of the factors slowing the deliv­ery of aid. After Tuesday’s earthquake, maintaining law and order fell to the 9,000 U.N. peacekeepers and international police already in Haiti even though those forces also sustained heavy losses in the disaster. 
Keen said U.S. forces are working with U.N. peacekeepers and that local police are beginning to assist in providing secu­rity. 
On Sunday, the White House said President Barack Obama had issued an order allowing selected members of the military’s reserves to be called up to support operations in Haiti. 
Signed Saturday, the executive order permits the Defense Department and Homeland Security Department to tap reserve medical personnel and a Coast Guard unit that will 

AP 

U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton talks with U.S. Ambassador to Haiti Kenneth Merten, center, upon arriving in Haiti Saturday. 
help provide port security. The White House said the authority will be used on a limited basis. No numbers of personnel or names of units were provided. 
Rescue efforts and get­ting food, water and med­ical supplies to earth ­quake victims were the focus of efforts Sunday, 
U.S. officials said. An esti­mated 100,000 or more people may have died in the magnitude-7.0 quake. 
As of Sunday, the State Department said the total number of confirmed U.S. death was 16, including one embassy worker. 
Rajiv Shah, who leads the U.S. Agency for International Development, said U.S. relief workers are also trying to rescue people from under the damaged and destroyed buildings. 

“Our first priority was to go in with urban search and rescue teams,” said Shah, who visited Haiti on Saturday with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. “They work around the clock to try and save lives.” 
“On next priority, which started in parallel, was getting those commodities down there and making sure we have the food, water, shelter and basic needs met for the people of Haiti,” Shah said. 
International search and rescue teams are looking for earthquake survivors around the clock as offi­cials running the rescue effort get closer to shifting to a recovery operation. 
There have been 62 live rescues, Tim Callaghan of the U.S. Agency for International Development’s foreign dis­aster assistance office said Sunday. American search and rescue teams had per­formed 29 of those res­cues. 
“We are still in rescue mode,” Callaghan said in a conference call with reporters. He said the decision to move to recov­ery will be made by the Haitian government. “Obviously we’re getting closer to that painful deci­sion of moving from searching for people to recovery,” Callaghan said. 
Keen and Shah spoke on ABC's “This Week,” NBC's “Meet the Press” and “Fox News Sunday.” 

Beaches trapping oil from 1989 spill 
Associated Press 

ANCHORAGE — An engineering professor has figured out why oil remains trapped along miles of grav­el beaches more than 20 years after the Exxon Valdez tanker disaster in Prince William Sound. 
An estimated 20,000 gallons of crude remain in Prince William Sound, even though oil remaining after the nearly 11-million-gallon spill had been expected to biode­grade and wash away within a few years. 
The problem: The gravelly beaches of Prince William Sound are trapping the oil between two layers of rock, with larger rocks on top and finer gravel underneath, according to Michel C. Boufadel, chairman of the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Temple University. 
Boufadel found that water, which could have broken up and dissipated the oil, moved through the lower level of gravel up to 1,000 times slower than the top level. 
Tidal forces worked to compact the finer-grained gravel even more, cre­ating a nearly oxygen-free environ­ment with low nutrient levels that slowed the ability of the oil to biode­grade. 
“The oil could be maybe one foot below the beach surface and in con­tact with sea water with a lot of oxy­gen, but the oxygen doesn’t get to it,” Boufadel said. 

He found that the upper layer of beach is so permeable that the water table falls within it as fast as the tide. However, the permeability of the lower level is so low that the water table does not drop much within it, he said. 
“As global warming is melting the ice cover and exposing the Arctic to oil exploitation and shipping through sea routes such as the Northwest Passage, the risk of oil spills on grav­el beaches in high-latitude regions will be increased,” the study says. 
page 6 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, January 18, 2010 
The Observer 

Business
Monday, January 18, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Kraft raises offer for Cadbury 
LONDON — Kraft Foods Inc. is expected to sweeten its offer for Cadbury PLC, in an effort to remain in the running as it faces a potential competing bid from Hershey Co. for the British candy maker, according to media reports. 
The Sunday Times and The Observer in London said Sunday that Kraft is raising its offer to 820 pence per Cadbury share, or about $13.33, from 771 pence. Cadbury shares closed Friday at 793.5 pence on the London Stock Exchange. 
Kraft’s earlier offer was valued at 10.3 bil­lion pounds, or about $16.5 billion, which Cadbury rejected as “derisory.” 
Kraft and Cadbury did not immediately return calls for comment. 
The newspapers said Kraft plans to increase the cash portion of its cash-and-stock bid. Kraft’s biggest shareholder, Berkshire Hathaway, managed by billionaire Warren Buffett, had warned against issuing more shares to boost the acquisition offer. Investors fret that Kraft’s stock is undervalued and sell­ing more shares would further diminish its value. 
McCain supports Arizona mine 
GREEN VALLEY, Ariz. — Arizona Sen. John McCain says a huge open pit mine project proposed for the eastern slope of the Santa Rita Mountains, south of Tucson, can be good for the economy and unem­ployed Arizonans. 
During an appearance in the southern Arizona community of Green Valley Friday, McCain said the state’s high unemployment rate presents a good argument for going forward with the Rosemont Copper mine. 
Opponents of the mine worry about water supplies and the environmental impact. 
McCain says environmentalists can’t “run and ruin this economy.” 
He later added that it’s important to have the proper studies to determine the mine’s effect on the environment. 
The Coronado National Forest is expected to release a draft environmental impact statement on the mine by the end of June. 
Augusta Resource Corp. plans to begin producing materials from the site by 2011. 
Big tobacco meets U.S. secretly 
Attorneys meet with Solicitor General to avoid trip to Supreme Court 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — Tobacco industry lawyers met secretly with Solicitor General Elena Kagan in an effort to avoid the govern­ment’s last-ditch attempt to extract billions from com­panies that illegally con­cealed the dangers of ciga­rette smoking. 
Four cigarette makers that control nearly 90 per­cent of U.S. retail cigarette sales have until Feb. 19 to persuade the government not to go to the Supreme Court and ask the justices to step into a landmark 10­year-old racketeering law­suit. 
In 2006, a judge ruled that the industry concealed the dangers of smoking for decades. Despite that find­ing, lower courts have said the government is not enti­tled to collect $280 billion in past profits or $14 billion for a national campaign to curb smoking. 
As part of any effort to convince the government that it should skip a trip to the Supreme Court, the tobacco companies may have to drop plans to ask the justices to overturn the ruling that the industry engaged in racketeering. 
On behalf of the industry, Washington lawyers Michael Carvin and Miguel Estrada and Carvin result-accepting the findings of mum nicotine delivery and Estrada made their pitch ed in an internal depart-U.S. District Judge Gladys the adverse health effects against seeking Supreme ment meeting a few days Kessler that they engaged of exposure to secondhand Court review in a mid-later. At this meeting, in a scheme to defraud the smoke. These statements December meeting at the department lawyers dis-public by falsely denying must appear on company Justice Department with cussed the possibility of the adverse health effects Web sites, cigarette pack-Kagan, according to two seeking billions of dollars of smoking, concealing evi-ages and newspaper and Washington attorneys out-from the industry as part of dence nicotine is addictive television ads. side the government who a possible negotiated settle-and lying about their “The trial court’s findings are familiar with the meet-ment of the suit, according manipulation of nicotine in are devastating to the ing in her office. to one of the private attor-cigarettes to create addic-tobacco industry,” said 
In the meeting, Carvin neys who learned about tion. Last May, a federal Matthew L. Myers, presi­and Estrada left the this second meeting from appeals court upheld the dent of the Campaign for impression the industry participants. findings. The companies Tobacco-Free Kids, one of might be willing to end The department, the then pledged to appeal to the public health groups plans to seek a high court industry or both could the Supreme Court. allowed by Kessler to join appeal of its own, if the request that the Supreme Kessler ordered the com-the case in 2005 on the side Justice Department would Court take the case, while panies to make corrective of the Justice Department. do the same, said the at the same time asking statements about the “We have urged the depart-Washington attorneys, who that the case be delayed adverse health effects of ment to go to the Supreme spoke on condition of while the two sides try to smoking, the addictiveness Court to significantly anonymity so that they work out a deal. of smoking and nicotine, strengthen the remedies, could discuss the private If the companies also the companies’ manipula-particularly with regard to meeting with Kagan. agreed not to seek an tion of cigarette design and funding smoking cessation 
The discussion with appeal, they would be composition to ensure opti-and public education.” 

Fisker raises $115M for plug-in cars 
Associated Press help automakers develop fuel-effi-ion batteries for the Karma. 
cient vehicles. Fisker is among a handful of auto 
NEW YORK — Fisker Automotive, a Privately held Fisker, which is companies that have been approved high-tech startup company, said headed by Danish automobile design-to receive Energy Department loans Friday it has raised $115.3 million to er Henrik Fisker and headquartered for researching fuel-efficient vehi­develop high-end hybrid cars, bring-in Irvine, Calif., was founded in 2007 cles. Ford Motor Co., Nissan Motor ing it closer to accessing a govern-and is among the newest entrants in Co. and Tesla Motors have also ment loan it won last year. the U.S. auto industry. The company received approval. Like Fisker, Tesla 
Fisker spokesman Russell Datz said plans to begin selling its sole prod-is hoping to break into the U.S. auto the money brings the company close uct, the $87,900 Karma plug-in industry by selling high-end fuel-effi­to being able to tap a $528.7 million hybrid, later this year, and has plans cient cars, such as its such as its line of funding from the U.S. to sell a lower-cost hybrid family $109,000 Roadster electric sports Department of Energy, though he sedan starting in 2012. car. declined to say how much money the In October, the company San Carlos, Calif.-based Tesla is company has raised so far or what announced it was buying a shuttered also working on a cheaper electric the goal is. General Motors Co. factory in sedan, the Model S, which it expects 
The government required the com-Wilmington, Del., and will use the to go on sale in 2012 at a cost of pany to raise capital from investors facility to build the cheaper vehicle. $57,400. in order to use the funding. The DOE Earlier this week, Fisker said it Mainstream automakers have also loan comes from a $25 billion fund struck a deal with batter-maker touted plans to roll out more hybrids established by Congress in 2007 to A123 Systems Inc. to supply lithium-and electric cars. 
page 8 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Monday, January 18, 2010 
Hawaii legislature to vote on civil unions measure 
Associated Press 
HONOLULU — When Hawaii legislators reconvene on Wednesday, all eyes will be focused on legislation that would allow same-sex couples to form civil unions in the state 
The measure would grant gay couples the rights and benefits the state provides to married couples and is among a handful of similar proposals that could pop up in several other U.S. states. 
At the same time, a federal judge in San Francisco is con­sidering the constitutionality of California’s same-sex marriage ban. 
“This bill has already been voted on, so there isn’t as much convincing to do any­more,” said Alan Spector of Equality Hawaii, a leading supporter of the bill. “I think (legislators) get the substance of the bill and the need for the bill.” 
Last year, the proposal easily won preliminary passage in the Legislature, but stalled in May after opponents lobbied and held a state Capitol rally attended by several thousand protesters. 
Opponents, noting that this is an election year, cast doubt on claims that passage is at hand. Critics, including the Catholic Diocese of Honolulu and scores of evangelical Protestant churches, hope another rally, this one planned for Sunday, will be large enough to con­vince wavering lawmakers to kill the measure. 
“It’s up to the people who oppose civil unions to remind the legislators that they work for the people,” said Garret Hashimoto, chairman of the Hawaii Christian Coalition. “There’s no ifs, ands or buts that the majority of the people in Hawaii oppose civil unions and gay marriage.” 
No independent polls or sur­veys have been conducted on the issue, so it’s difficult to measure public sentiment. The last time voters directly weighed in on a related issue was in 1998 when 70 percent approved a constitutional riage for opposite sex couples. amendment allowing the Elsewhere, at least one other Legislature to reserve mar-state, New Mexico, appears poised to seriously consider a civil union measure. Bills in Illinois and Minnesota also may surface. Colorado, Wisconsin, Maryland and Maine have limited laws allow­ing same-gender civil unions. Iowa, Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts and Connecticut permit same-sex marriage. 



In Hawaii, the measure would expand the state’s exist­ing reciprocal beneficiaries law by granting to unmarried same-and opposite-gender couples all of the rights and benefits the state provides to married couples. It is similar to broad civil union or domes­tic partnership laws in California, the District of Columbia, Nevada, Oregon, Washington and New Jersey. 
The Hawaii legislation would have no impact on federal tax and other benefits that only apply to married opposite-sex couples. According to 2000 census records, more than 1,200 male couples, 1,100 female couples and 21,100 mixed couples lived together in Hawaii. 
Supporters voice guarded confidence that the bill, pend­ing in the Senate since May, still enjoys majority support in both chambers. 
But House Speaker Calvin Say, a Democrat, suggested the bill could stall in the House if the Senate vote turns out to be slim. “If the bill limps over,” he said, “you know we don’t have the two-thirds, so why go through the exercise if the governor is going to veto?” 
Foes say the House, whose members face re-election every two years, will be a prime focus of their lobbying. 
The number of no votes among House members has “changed tremendously, in our favor,” said former state Rep. Dennis Arakaki, head of the Hawaii Family Forum and Hawaii Catholic Conference. “They are especially sensitive because they’re all up for elec­tion.” 
Honolulu Catholic Bishop Larry Silva in a letter last week urged some 220,000 parishioners to lobby lawmak­ers. He called civil unions “simply a euphemism” for gay marriage and claimed it is jus­tifiable to discriminate against gay couples who want to marry. 
Spector contended Silva was “trying to impose his Catholic faith ... upon all of Hawaii’s residents.” 

Monday, January 18, 2010 The Observer  NEWS page 9 
Pope says ‘great respect’ exists between Catholics and Jews 
Benedict XVI’s visit to Rome’s main synagogue divides Jewish groups over pope’s praise of WWII pontiff 
Associated Press 
ROME — Pope Benedict XVI on Sunday acknowledged prob­lems between Catholic and Jews, but insisted there was “great respect” between the two religions, hours before a controversial visit to a Rome synagogue. 
The visit has divided Jewish groups because of Benedict’s praise and push toward saint­hood of wartime pontiff Pius XII, who some critics contend didn’t do enough to save Jews during the Holocaust. The Vatican defends Pius, maintain­ing he used behind-the-scenes diplomacy in a bid to save Jewish lives. 
Several prominent Jews have said they will boycott the visit. 
In his weekly noon appear­ance to pilgrims and tourists in St. Peter’s Square, Benedict predicted that his visit would be a “further step on the path of harmony and friendship” between Catholics and Jews. 
He recalled the 1986 visit to the same synagogue by his predecessor, John Paul II, who was widely credited with dra­matically improving relations with Jews. The late pontiff, who lived under Nazi occupa­tion in his Polish homeland, where Jews were largely anni­hilated, affectionately referred to Jews as “our elder brothers” in faith during that ground­breaking visit. 
Hundreds of police on Saturday enforced strict securi­ty around the synagogue along the boulevard lining the Tiber. Officers guided dogs trained to sniff out explosives in the neighborhood, known as the Old Jewish Ghetto, where for hundreds of years Jews were confined under the orders of a 16th century pope. 
As part of security ahead of the visit, motorists and strollers were banned from passing near the synagogue and the cobble­stone streets were cordoned off. The neighborhood is the sentimental heart for Rome’s 12,000-strong Jewish commu­nity, although many of them live elsewhere in the capital. 
Italy’s Jews are a tiny minori­ty: about 30,000 in a predomi­nantly Roman Catholic country of some 60 million. 
The German-born Benedict, ahead of his meeting with Rome’s Jewish community, said that “despite the problems and difficulties, you can breathe in a climate of great respect and dialogue among the believers of the two religions, testimony to how matured the relations are and to the common commit­ment to value that which unites us.” 
Those unifying factors were: “faith in the one God, above all, but also safeguarding life and the family, the aspiration for social justice and peace,” Benedict said. 
An elderly Jewish man enter­ing the synagogue shortly before the pope’s scheduled arrival said he was glad the pope was coming despite recent problems. 
“Dialogue is always impor­tant, and it sets a good exam­ple,” said Natan Orvieto. “But there needs to be reciprocal respect and that hasn’t hap­pened a lot lately.” 
Besides the Pius question, some Jews have been angered by Benedict’s reaching out to Catholic traditionalists, includ­ing by reviving a prayer for the conversion of Jews 


Another sore point is Benedict’s decision to revoke the excommunication of a rene­gade bishop who had denied that millions of Jews died in the Holocaust. The Vatican has said it wasn’t aware of the bishop’s views when the excommunica­tion was lifted. 
Under the leadership of John Paul and Benedict, the Vatican has been seeking common ground on such conservative agendas as traditional families while forging stronger relations with other religions, including Judaism and Islam. 
Before entering the syna­gogue, the pope was scheduled to attend a wreath-laying cere­mony in front of a plaque that recalls the Oct. 16, 1943, deportation of Jews in Rome during Nazi occupation. Another stop was planned at another memorial, which recalls the 1982 attack on the synagogue by Palestinian ter­rorists that killed a 2-year-old Jewish boy. 
Across the world, relations between Jews and the Vatican have at times been tense over the Vatican’s sainthood efforts for Pius, who was pontiff from 1939 to 1958. Those tensions flared again after Benedict last month issued a decree hailing the “heroic virtues” of Pius, an important step before beatifica­tion, which is the last formal stage before possible saint­hood. 
Benedict has visited syna­gogues in Cologne, Germany, and in New York during papal pilgrimages since he became pontiff in 2005. 

One in ten public university executives see pay decrease 
Recession blamed as cause for cut in many school presidents’ pay as tax support declines across the country 
Associated Press 
The recession has reached the executive suites of the nation’s public universities and colleges, putting a stop to a string of large annual pay increases for school presidents. 
A survey released Monday by the Chronicle of Higher Education showed compensa­tion packages of chief execu­tives at public schools level­ing off in 2008-2009, rising a relatively modest 2.3 per ­cent. One in 10 saw their pay decline. Some who did get raises or bonuses gave the money back to their schools. 
Presidential salaries at public universities and col­leges have come under greater scrutiny as many bursting -at -the -seams schools raise tuition to offset steep declines in state fund­ing. 
The latest figures show that the economy and fears of a backlash over perceived high salaries are trumping — at least for now — the argu ­ment that public schools need to pay top dollar for top talent. 
“Students and families have had to tighten their belts, so I bet they’ll appreciate seeing some restraint among college presidents, ” said Sen. 
Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, a critic of executive pay at col­leges and other nonprofits. “Holding off on raises is in sync with the reality for fam­ilies trying to pay for college in the midst of high unem­ployment and the worst econ­omy in decades.” 
Over the previous six years, annual pay increases of 10 percent or more became the norm for many public school presidents. So while base salaries rose for two-thirds of top executives in the 2008­2009 survey of 185 public universities and community colleges, the dollars involved were significantly smaller. 
The median compensation package for public school top executives in 2008-2009 was $436,111. Eleven public uni­versity presidents earned $700,000 or more, down from 15 the previous year. 
“If you got a 2 percent increase, that’s more than a lot of faculty got, ” said Patrick Callan, president of the National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education in San Jose, Calif. “A lot of faculty were fur­loughed. I’m glad to see the restraint but it’s about what you’d expect given the politi­cal pressures.” 
The pay slowdown can be explained both by the reces­sion and greater scrutiny at a time when public schools are under tremendous pressure, said Jeffrey Selingo, editor of the Chronicle of Higher Education. 
State tax support for higher education declined 1.1 per­cent nationwide in 2009 ­2010 — a drop that would have been much more severe without federal stimulus dol­lars, according to a separate report Monday by the Center for the Study of Education Policy at Illinois State University. 
Students are being asked to make up much of the differ­ence. In-state tuition for stu­dents at four-year public schools rose 6.5 percent last fall over the previous year, according to the College Board. 
Selingo said officials who set executive pay “are not giving raises because the money is not there, and pres­idents don’t necessarily want to take big raises because they’re worried when they go in front of student groups and parents and testify in front of legislators. They don’t want their salaries to become the focus.” 
The trend to reign in pay increases will probably be short-lived, he said. If com­pensation at public schools keeps stagnating as pay at their private counterparts continues to rise, a backlash will erupt with public school presidents leaving and schools struggling to hire new ones, Selingo said. 
The highest-paid president in this year’s public school survey is Gordon Gee of Ohio State University, whose pay is worth more than $1.5 million including salary, retirement and deferred compensation. 
Gee is the only executive on the list to earn more than $1 million. The millionaires ’ club in private higher educa­tion is much larger — a point raised by those who argue public school executives are underpaid given that their schools are typically bigger and more complex to man­age, and huge state employ­ers. 
In the Chronicle ’s 2007 ­2008 analysis of private school presidents, a record 23 topped the $1 million mark. Median compensation rose 6.5 percent — 15.5 per­cent at major private research universities. 
Gee said he’s “not defen­sive” about what he earns given, among other things, that he took a pay cut to move from private Vanderbilt University and Ohio State is a large and complex university. 
“Some of it has to do, I hope, with my competence,” Gee said. “I believe I have to earn that salary every day, so I work pretty hard ... Ohio State belongs to the people of Ohio. If on any given day they don’t believe I’m earn­ing what I earn, I’ll be pump­ing gas in Vernal, Utah, ” Gee’s birthplace. 
Gee donated $1 million to a student scholarship fund when he returned to Ohio State in 2007 — it’s his sec­ond tenure at the school — and said he put his $200,000 bonus and $28,000 raise into the fund this year. 
Other presidents have refused bonuses, requested salary freezes or given money owed them to student aid. 
Rounding out the top five highest-paid public universi­ty presidents were Mark Emmert of the University of Washington ($905,004), Patrick Harker of the University of Delaware ($810,603), John Casteen of the University of Virginia ($797,048) and Francisco Cigarroa of the University of Texas system ($787,258). 
Eduardo Padron of Miami Dade College was the highest paid community college top executive, with a $548,459 pay package. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Monday, January 18, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
The Independent, Daily Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Joseph McMahon Laura Myers Irena Zajickova Chris Masoud Kristen Durbin Matt Robison Graphics Viewpoint Mary Cecilia Lianna Mitsch Brauweiler Scene Alexandra Kilpatrick 
The Observer Viewpoint policies 
Editor’s Note: The following are the Observer Viewpoint policies revised on Jan. 17, 2010. 
Anyone is welcome to submit Letters to the Editor, quotes, cartoons, comic strips and poems to the Viewpoint Department of The Observer. Items submitted by members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s community will be given preference for publication. 
The opinions expressed in the Viewpoint section are not necessarily those of The Observer. Regular colum­nists, those whose columns appear on a regular basis; guest columnists, those whose columns do not appear on a regular basis; Letters to the Editor; poems, comic strips, cartoons and quotes are commentaries. 
Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor­in-Chief, the Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and Department Editors. 
All commentaries submitted to The Observer must include the name and phone number of the author. Letters to the Editor may not exceed 350 words and columns may not exceed 800 words. Exceptions are made at the dis­cretion of the Viewpoint Editor. The Viewpoint Editor may shorten any Letter or column regardless of length or deem it worth of print in its entirety. 
All material submitted to the Viewpoint Department, including columns, poems, Letters to the Editor, comic strips and cartoons, becomes property of The Observer. Any further use of these commentaries without the written consent of The Observer is prohibited. Not-for-profit organiza­tions, those organizations which have a reciprocal usage agreement and those organizations of which The Observer is a member may be granted permission to publish commentaries with the permission of the Editor-in-Chief or the permission of the Managing Editor and the Viewpoint Editor. 
The Viewpoint Department reserves the right to edit all commentaries. The Observer has no obligation to print submitted commentaries. Such works will not be printed if they are libelous, unintelligible or irrelevant. The Observer will not publish commen­taries deemed offensive, discriminato­ry, hateful or in any way considered by the editors to contradict the values of The Observer, the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary’s College. 
Relevance will be determined with respect to interest of a particular issue on a local, national or world level, extension of existing issues on the Viewpoint pages and/or role in foster­ing spirited and intelligent discussion. 
Commentaries submitted as Letters to the Editor many not exceed three in number from the same individual or organization within the same academic semester. There is no limit to the num­ber of times an individual or organiza­tion may have their commentaries appear in print as columnists. 
All commentaries printed in the Viewpoint section must be verified before publication. It is not guaranteed that authors of columns, Letters to the Editor, quotes, comic strips, cartoons and poems will be notified before their work is printed in The Observer. 
Only those individuals authorized to speak as representatives for a group will be allowed to use the organiza­tion’s name. In such cases, the primary author(s) or the commentary is (are) the individual(s), and the commentary is, in effect, co-signed by the organiza­tion. 
Commentaries that appear in the 

LETTER FROM THE ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
Editor’s Note: The Observer Editorial Board has accepted the resignation of Assistant Managing Editor Kara King. We greatly respect King’s courage in writing a letter to our community and appreciate her service to The Observer. 
To The Observer community, 
I am writing to apologize for my actions, which led to the inexcusable publication of a “Mobile Party” comic strip on Jan. 13. This strip was offensive and inappropriate beyond measure, and printing it perpetuated a message of intolerance, discrimination and hate. 
A miscommunication between another editor and myself led to the comic run­ning without me first reading and approving the material. Regardless, no excuse can justify the comic even being considered for publication, and the duty to censor it fell to me. I failed to do so, and am solely responsible for providing a forum for this message of hate. I was the final one to check the paper that night, and am accountable for all of its content. I regret nothing more than the oversight that led to it and apologize for disgracing the paper with its printing. The comic does not reflect my views or those of The Observer in any way, and I 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“It is all that the young can dofor the old, to shock them and keep them up to date.” 
George Bernard ShawIrish playwright 
cannot begin to quantify the humiliation in knowing that it is, ultimately, my fault. 
To those whom my actions have offended, I’m sorry. I failed as both an editor and member of the Notre Dame community by allowing this strip to print. I cannot take my inaction back, but I can hope that some good will come from this. More than ever, we as a University need to fight against stereo­types and for the equal rights of all who consider our campus and community home. If nothing else, the administration needs to use this instance to acknowl­edge that discrimination against the LGBT community is a very real problem, and one that should not be tolerated. Adding sexuality to the non-discrimina­tion clause and recognizing student groups who fight for these equal rights is overdue, and excuses for not doing so have been used for too long. This is not a problem that can be solved overnight, but the University can join The Observer in taking the first steps towards remedy­ing it. 
I have worked for The Observer for my entire undergraduate career and noth­ing embarrasses me more than to be the cause of such a negative spotlight for a Viewpoint section may not have been printed previously in other newspa­pers, magazines or publications. In exceptions, the author of the previous­ly printed material must give legal, written consent. Work from organiza­tions of which The Observer is a mem­ber, quotations used for commentaries, “Quote of the Day” and syndicated columns are excluded from this proce­dure. 


Paid employees of The Observer are not permitted to have their commen­taries appear in the Viewpoint section as Letters to the Editor. Regular columnists and members of the Viewpoint staff are also not eligible to have their commentaries appear in the Viewpoint section as Letters to the Editor. The status of such individuals is determined by the Viewpoint Editor. 
The Observer reserves the right to remove comments on The Observer’s Web site if the editors deem them offensive, lewd, obscene or in poor taste in any fashion. The Observer also reserves the right to disable comments on some or all of the Web site content in reaction to an abuse of the comment function. 
Cartoons and comic strips are con­sidered part of the Viewpoint section. Cartoons and comic strips will be approved by the nightly Viewpoint Editor, the nightly Sports Editor and both nightly Managing Editors. The editors reserve the right to refuse to run any cartoon or comic strip that the editors deem offensive, discriminatory, hateful or in any way considered by the editors to contradict the values of The Observer, the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary’s College. 
Any questions or concerns regarding The Observer Viewpoint policies should be directed to the Viewpoint Editor. 
product that I take great pride in helping produce. A daily paper requires the ded­ication of its staff and the competency of its editors. Everyone who works there understands the pressures, and has sac­rificed schoolwork, sleep and sanity to ensure a paper is delivered every day. 
Those with final say on what is printed need to be held accountable for their actions. As Assistant Managing Editor, I have failed in my duties to protect the quality and uphold the standards of The Observer, and because of this I am resigning the position, effective immedi­ately. I understand the severity of my actions, and need to take responsibility for them. I would like to thank Shirley Grauel, our office manager, for prevent­ing the paper from imploding and wish her the best of luck in her retirement, and the entire Editorial Board for allow­ing me the experience thus far. It has been an honor working with you and you have all taught me more in my four years than I ever could have learned in a classroom. I wish everyone on staff the best of luck in regaining the readers’ trust that I have violated. 
Kara King 
Jan. 17 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Parents wonder why the streams are bitter, when they themselves have poisoned the fountain.” 
John Locke English philosopher 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Monday, January 18, 2010 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Open letter against hate 
As officers of the Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s College (GALA-ND/SMC) for the past two years, we have encountered people on cam­pus who disagree with us on many issues. What we have not encountered from the stu­dent body, faculty or administration is the lack of respect evidenced by the publication of this hateful cartoon from other members of the Notre Dame community. 
This is not a question of free speech. If the editors weren’t concerned with community standards, they wouldn’t have rejected the first version of the cartoon. No, the decision to publish it demonstrates a serious lack of judgment and lack of commitment to the Catholic belief in human dignity and stance 
To the Editor: 

We write to join our voices to the many concerned members of the Notre Dame community who have already expressed shock, dismay and anger at the intoler­ance demonstrated in a “cartoon” pub­lished in the Jan. 13 edition of The Observer. While we appreciate the effort by the editors of the newspaper and the authors of “The Mobile Party” to apolo­gize for this offense against our common life as a University, we need to acknowl­edge the serious nature of the violent message of this “comic strip” and its com­plete disregard for the dignity of GLBT persons on the campus and beyond. We also wish to recognize this moment as an opportunity for reflection, education and purposeful resolution about the future. 
These are matters of deep and abiding concern for us. For the past four years as the Core Council for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Questioning Students (and against violence. 
We know that the cartoon does not reflect the feelings of a majority of the people on the Notre Dame campus; and we have been heartened by many of the responses appear­ing in The Observer. But this will hurt the University unless it is clear that Notre Dame does not tolerate violence against any mem­bers of its community. The author and edi­tors seem to have missed the point of a Catholic education if they cannot see that LGBT students, faculty, staff and alumni are indeed members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s family and should be treated as such. 
We make every attempt to share with peo­ple outside of campus the positive steps being made to improve the lives of the LGBT com-are ready to join with the rest of the Notre munity at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. Dame community in stating that the free flow Sometimes this takes convincing, even with of ideas can only occur if we respect each 
our own membership. The publication of the other. cartoon is a prime example of why Notre Dame ranks first in The Princeton Review’s list of the most unwelcoming campuses for gay and lesbian students. The noise being generated by this will drown out any good news about the work being done by the stu­dents, faculty and Core Council. That’s not good news if you care about our University’s reputation. 
The administration needs to take the lead in responding by holding panel discussions with The Observer, the faculty and the stu­dent body. GALA’s more-than-900 members 

Core Council response 
for a number of years previously as the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs), we have provided emo­tional, social, spiritual and educational support for our GLBT students, as well as outreach to the University at large to strengthen its efforts to create a welcom­ing community for all. In addition to advising the Vice President for Student Affairs on matters related to the GLBT student experience at Notre Dame, we have hosted numerous educational pro­grams including CommUnity, NETWORK, Solidarity Sunday and Stand Against Hate Week. We are grateful for the persons who have publically identified themselves as allies in these efforts, and we are encouraged by the number of students, faculty, staff and alumni who have recent­ly contacted us to demonstrate continuing support for us and our work. We are espe­cially heartened by Fr. Jenkins’ statement on Friday in which he denounced any expression of hate toward any persons or groups at the University. We, too, rely upon The Spirit of Inclusion as a charter document that guides and inspires us. 
During the Fall 2009 CommUnity pre­sentations in the residence halls, the GLBT student speakers and allies chal­lenged their audiences to identify five con­crete actions to which each person and residential community could commit in order to promote a truly welcoming com­munity for our GLBT members. Among the most common recommendations for action were the elimination of hate speech in all of its forms and an open challenge to anyone engaging in that behavior. (Often mentioned in this vein were direct­ly derogatory and threatening terms, as well as phrases encountered in some stu­dent subcultures, such as “that’s so gay...”) As this incident sadly illustrates, we all need to continuously commit to such resolutions in order to create and 
Tom O’Brien 
alumnus Class of 1986 
Michael August alumnus Class of 1996 Steven Saftig alumnus Class of 2003 Liam Dacey alumnus Class of 2004 

improve the ways Notre Dame accepts and affirms the GLBT persons in our midst. 
Sincerely, 
The Core Council for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Questioning Students 
Eddie Velasquez and Sr. Sue Dunn, O.P. 
co-chairs 
Patrick Bears Jason G’Sell Laura Lauck Fr. Joe Carey, C.S.C. Melanie LeMay Maureen Lafferty, Ed.D. Matt Momont Heather Rakoczy Russell Rachel Washington Sara Wright-Avila 
members 
Fr. Mark Poorman, C.S.C. 
Vice President for Student Affairs Jan. 17 

Call to action 
Opening up my acceptance letter to Notre Dame was one of the proudest moments of my life. I always wanted to come here. But the violent, hateful comic approved by the staff of The Observer and printed in the Jan. 13 edition repre­sents the complete opposite of what I thought this University stood for. I’m now ashamed to be a Notre Dame student. I can’t begin to fathom how hard it is for members of the LGBT community to live at Notre Dame. 
Make no mistake, this incident of blatant and violent hatred towards the LGBT community is no freak accident. It is not just the fault of the “Mobile Party” creators, nor the editors of The Observer. It is each and every student’s fault. We, as a student body, have supported a culture at Notre Dame in which hateful, homophobic jokes like the one in the “Mobile Party” are acceptable. We are supposed to be a family, a tight-knit com­munity. Each and every one of us has failed miser­ably. 
We might not all be homophobic, and we might not all use derogatory epithets, but we have failed to put an end to homophobia and the use of hurt­ful, disparaging words. I don’t think that the majority of students here are bigots, but I do think that most of us, including myself on many occa­sions, are pushovers. We hear “fag” and silently think, “Tisk, tisk. What a shame.” We owe it to our LGBT brothers and sisters at Notre Dame to take a stand. Call people out when they do use deroga­tory slurs, no matter how benign they may seem. If we let slurs get thrown around nonchalantly, we will only propagate the idea that it is acceptable to treat members of the LGBT with disrespect. 
Finally, to all of the members of the LGBT com­munity, I’m so sorry that we have allowed this to happen. I know countless other students who feel the same way. You’re not alone and we love you. 
Patrick Guibert 
freshman Dillon Hall Jan. 15 
Ashamed 

On Jan. 13, The Observer ran a terribly offensive comic implying gay bashing. I’m aware of the apology; however, viewing this comic made me extremely upset. As a proud member of the Notre Dame community, I am appalled. Notre Dame is about education, inclusion, acceptance and tradition. Notre Dame is expected to set a high standard, not a low one. What The Observer published is more than disappointing. 
I am ashamed. As a gay alum, I have to deal with discrim­ination every day. I do not have equal rights as everyone else in this nation. The LGBT community is treated as a second-class citizen. Most people do not understand how laws such as Proposition 8 affect the people in this nation. 
I want to know what The Observer and Notre Dame are going to do to help the LGBT community. The Observer’s apology was not enough in my eyes. Awareness clearly needs to be raised. This comic not only alienates a part of the current student population, but also makes the universi­ty as a whole look bigoted and intolerant. 
I hope The Observer and Notre Dame will work hard to teach understanding, caring, acceptance and love. 
Bryan J. Guarnier 
alumnus Class of 2006 Jan. 15 

Plenty of blame to go around 
The Jan. 13 cartoon, “The Mobile Party,” virtually the individuals who implausibly let this offensive comic advocated violence against gays (all in a light-hearted, into the paper, or even its creators. While their errors satirical way, you understand). As a lifelong journalist, I cannot be excused, they apparently thought they were naturally have an affinity for freedom of speech, and engaging in humor that would be acceptable on this here on campus I’ve been an advocate for The Observer. campus. What does that say about us? We’d better find It generally performs an important service for this com-out. munity. But last Wednesday’s paper represented a monu­mental lapse of judgment by the editors. (I appreciate Matthew V. Storin their prominent apology on Friday.) faculty 
We would be wrong, however, to just point fingers at Jan. 15 
Recent cartoon offensive 
To Whom it May Concern: and that’s a shame, especially for those students that 
In a recent publication of The Observer, I saw a car-might be struggling with this issue on campus like I did toon from “The Mobile Party” that was incredibly offen-13 years ago. sive (Jan. 13). I graduated from Notre Dame in 1997 and while I can’t deny the campus conservatism at that time, Michael Carney I never felt ostracized or denigrated for being a gay man. alumnus The publication of this cartoon makes me think that Class of 1997 morality and compassion at Notre Dame are regressing Jan. 15 
The Observer 

Scene
page 12 Monday, January 18, 2010 
By CAITLIN FERRARO 
Scene Writer 
Saturday night at Legends singer Tyler Hilton rocked out to a big crowd of girls. Hilton, who has just finished writing and recording for his new album, played a mixture 
of old favorites and new songs. 
In an interview prior to the show, Hilton talked about his new album. It has been six years since his last, and Hilton is grateful that fans stuck by him over the years. His first new single will be released in a few weeks on his Web site and hopefully it will hit the radio airwaves in April. 
Wh en asked to char­acterize his new album he described it as “rock/pop music.” However, it will be different than his 2004 work “The Tracks of Tyler Hilton” in that it will have more rock guitars, key­boards and overall a bigger sound. 


“A lot of my [new] songs are songs I’ve been play ­ing for two but they 
many people [acoustic] and have want to give them the same version again clean. There’s got to be something cool to make that song even better.” 


While Hilton has 
over 20 songs written and recorded, those that will make it to the album have yet to be chosen. However, his personal favorite is one entitled 
“Say it Like a Lie”. 
Hilton, 
who is also an a c t o r, is also known for his recur ­ring role on the 
CW drama “One Tree Hill” as the arrogant musician Chris Keller. When asked about his experience on the show, Hilton described it as “killer.” Even though he was “the new kid in school,” he was welcomed with open 
kept com­ing back to the show. Many of the cast members went on the road with Hilton over the years, and he still remains close with them. 
What is the one possession Hilton must have on the road? A good book. Hilton loves to read, which is part of the reason for his charity, “T.H. Books for Kids.” He came up with the idea for the organization about four years ago when talking to his high school English teacher. 
“I really like reading [and] I wish[ed] there was a chari­ty that could empower peo­ple to help them with the first step they need to figure out problems on their own.” Hilton said. “If we could really help child literacy, or give kids books, I feel like books are such a tool into critical thinking and gives you ideas and expands your world.” 
His teacher’s daughter now runs the organization, and Hilton gives all the credit to her and the board of direc­tors. 
Each year, he holds at least one charity concert, and the organization works to pro-
Hurricane Katrina, they were able to completely replenish an elementary school library that was flooded. Hilton has already begun throwing ideas around with the board about Haiti, since he knows the need there will be significant after more immediate matters are dealt with. 
With no truly new publi­cized songs in years, Hilton appreciates his fans’ dedica­tion. He is amazed that they keep coming back to his website to watch his videos and read his blog. 
“The reason it wasn ’t a phase […] was because everyone loved it,” Hilton said. 
He initially began with videos on the road and blog­ging for fun, but the fans responded so positively that he could not stop. Hilton has even had a cooking show on YouTube which he calls “Cooking with Tyler. ” He exclusively revealed that he is bringing the show back and plans to start cooking fan recipes, and will hope­fully put together a cook ­book. 
it and I can ’t believe that people like this because I’m in my kitchen cooking, but somebody from 
I should do that again and I’m like, real­ly? Okay!” Hilton said of the 
Hilton played about 15 songs on Saturday. The concertgoers really seemed to enjoy singing along to Hilton ’s older songs, and were not too shy to shout out requests. But every now and then Hilton would interject with a new song. When the audience asked Hilton to sing “When the Stars Go Blue” a duet he performed 
on “One Tree Hill ” with Bethany Joy Galeotti, he obliged — but only if some­one would come up on stage and help him out. One will­ing fan did, and she did an excellent job. 
The show was a total suc­cess, and the openers were also fantastic. Look for Hilton’s new album this year. In the meantime, check out his recent EP “Better on Beachwood” on iTunes now. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar1@nd.edu 
By ANDY SEROFF 
Scene Writer 
The Los Angeles -based band OK Go credits YouTube for much of their recent suc­cess, with their intricate, one-take music videos for “A Million Ways” and the ever-popular “Here It Goes Again” (The Treadmill Dance) receiving tens of millions of views. Their latest effort, “Of the Blue Colour of 
band. The airy track con ­trasts characteristic OK Go features like stop -time, falsetto background vocals and miscellaneous percus­sion against a scratchy bass, funk guitar lines and spastic guitar solos, all over a 5/4 time. The result is a track that tries to offer the best of both worlds and satisfies in neither — but not without offering a satisfying exposi­imagery adds a psychedelic nature to their personality. The band also appears much more relaxed, strolling on stage, even playing with beach balls on set, as opposed to hustling to posi­tions in their previous dance videos. 
Just as the listener gets ori­ented in the album’s new direction, it heads back to classic arena rock mode with 
“This Too 

the Sky,” certainly 
Shall Pass. ” wanders from the In true OK band’s arena-rock, Go fashion, nerd -pop style of the sound is their previous huge with albums, but they massive don ’t forfeit the depths sur ­charm of their rounding the music videos. The focal parts — CD was produced the similarly by Dave Fridmann, pitched toy most famous for piano and lead 

OK Go 
Of the Blue Colour of the Sky Label: Capitol Records Recommended Tracks: “This Too Shall Pass,” “Needing/Getting,” “Last Leaf” 

his work with the Flaming Lips, and his influence is cer­tainly present. 
The first single, “WTF?” is a stylistic bridge between OK Go’s old identity and the new, mellowed persona of the tion into the album. The music video for “WTF?” rein­forces its role as a stylistical­ly transitional track by main­taining the typical one-take shot of the band members dancing, but the use of stop-
vocals. The song dances between intensities, alternating between heavy head banging and drum and “ooh” breaks, before settling down for the bridge. It ends with both materials over ­lapped, resulting in a chorus of equal parts joy and power. The music video for this track is cer­tainly worth a view, which fea ­tures the track reworked for accor ­dion, xylo ­
phone, a children’s chorus and the Notre Dame Marching Band, outfitted in generic marching band out­fits and ghillie suits. The video is charming and, of course, in one take, but more importantly, the band’s tim­bre and vigor compliment the style of the piece so much that this alternate version might be superior to the CD take. 
The middle tracks of the album return to the sound founded in “WTF? ” with more sound droning and vocal reverberation than catchy and clean guitar licks and downbeats. The fourth track, “Needing/Getting” is the culmination of these instrumental motives, featur­ing masterful guitar and drum work. The song exem­plifies the result of the syn­chronization of Fridmann’s influence with OK Go ’s sound, especially the back­ground sampling of “It’s A Disaster,” off of their last full album, “Oh No” (at 4:22 for the audiophile Easter-egg hunters). 
The last tracks deserving mention are “Before the Earth was Round” and “Last Leaf,” which I place together because of their differences rather than their similarities. The two songs, appearing in the ninth and 10th positions, display the versatility of the band’s new direction. First, a heavily syncopated and syn­thesized track, anthropomor­phizing the sky as an entity confused about itself, fol ­lowed by a simple, but equal­ly beautiful acoustic love song using the Earth and the seasons as metaphor. The result — a band with unfounded versatility. With this latest release I was hop­ing for another album like “Oh No,” filled with arena-rock riffs and memorable lyrics, and at first I was dis­appointed. But with a second listen, “Of the Blue Colour of the Sky,” proved to be the showcase of the stylistic range of a maturing rock quartet. 
Contact Andy Seroff at aseroff@nd.edu 
The Observer 

Scene
Monday, January 18, 2010 page 13 
50. The Aviator (2004) charmer about monsters whose job 45. Elephant (2003) 41. Donnie Darko (2001) By SHANE STEINBERG Oneofthefewbiopicstocrackthis istoscaresleepingchildreninorder In the wake of the tragic I cannot for the life of me Scene Writer list, “The Aviator” does so because it to generate energy for their own Columbine shootings, director Gus explain why I’m drawn to this 
is just that, a biopic — one that plays world. It’s all about the energy at the Van Sant creates an affecting, stun-film, but there’s just something 
Over the five day week, “The by the rules, but goes one step fur-company, Monster Inc., and with the ningly shot and somehow blissfully about it, some inexplicable quality Observer” will count down all of the ther into the man that was aviation film “Monsters Inc.”, it’s also all paced account of a school shooting that grabs and never lets go. A movies that made us laugh, cry, tycoon “cult classic” if there ever was reflect and sit on the edge of our Harold one, “Donnie Darko” is like a seats — all of the best films of the H u g h e s roller coaster ride of confusion, decade. These 50 films all share an than most Smurf sexology, and most central essence of filmmaking genius that biopics of all, let’s just throw in the theory were exceptional amongst the thou-dare to behind time travel. It just gets in sands of films released in the last 10 g o . your mind and stays there, for years, and some of them will one day T h e better or for worse. be viewed as “classics” in film histo-m i n d ry. So here they are, the best films of behind Contact Shane Steinberg at the decade. the man is on full display here, and boundless creative energy that 44. Little Miss Sunshine (2006) ssteinb2@nd.edu 
there are few better able results in a film audiences of all ages 2006’s little engine that could than Leonardo DiCaprio, in can love. is like a cute and cuddly stuffed a brilliant turn yet again, at animal. Yet it has a way of mak­handling the task of play-47. Almost Famous (2000) ing you cry. And then laugh. And ing the troubled, eccentric, Tasked with the dream job of then cry again. Then stand up womanizing, power-hun-interviewing a new hot rock band and cheer, wide-eyed with an gry genius that Hughes during their cross-country tour, a ear-to-ear grin across the face. was. high schooler (Patrick Fugit) discov-Made with starry-eyed beauty 
ers love, the true essence of rock and injected with a sense of 

49. Maria Full of Grace music and even himself along the enjoyment shared by the audi­(2004) way. The real showstopper here is ence, “Little Miss Sunshine” is a 
Lead actress Catalina Kate Hudson, the band’s groupie, true crowd pleaser. Sandino Moreno is mes-who steals the show as a free-loving merizing as a poor drug-addict caught between inno-43. Letter From Iwo Jima Colombian woman caught cence and that point in life where we (2006) in a web of murder as a all just have to grow up. Simply put, Director Clint Eastwood packs drug mule sent to New it’ll have you air-guitaring ‘til your a visceral punch in the form of a York City with bags of fingers just can’t strum anymore. beautifully shot, ferocious yet heroin inside her stomach. delicate letter from the doomed Caught within the frames 46. The Hurt Locker (2009) Japanese abandoned on Iwo here are the sense of being Director Kathryn Bigelow’s mus-Jima. Upon its release, this was lost and utter fear felt by cle-flexing, full-throttle portrayal of a the best American war film someone with no human special unit of bomb disarming sol-since “Saving Private Ryan”. connection and no way of diers in Iraq, “The Hurt Locker“ understanding what is stands as a king among men in the 42. Lord of the Rings: The going on in her surround-small but growing group of Iraq War Fellowship of the Ring ings. And the way in which films. What’s different here is that (2001) that feeling is caught is the the movie is neither action-driven The first film in the trilogy true triumph here. Her nor overly story driven, and it avoids was groundbreaking and feeling is dually felt by the what has thus far been a pitfall in made the success of the next audience, which makes trying to pass itself off as a psycho-two installments inevitable. this eye-opening film all the logical analysis of soldiers in the heat Perhaps the most faithful more powerful. of the current war. Instead, “The adaptation of J.R.R. Tolkien’s 
Hurt Locker“ is a beautiful marriage trilogy, Peter Jackson’s first 

48. Monsters Inc. (2001) of a bare bones portrayal of human foray into Middle Earth is the 
Pixar struck gold with nature when the line between life most Shire-like of the three this hilarious, wildly imagi-and death is so thin and momentary films, and what a refreshing native and altogether and a classic tension-ridden portray-two and a half hours at the unforgettable little al of the heat of combat. Shire it is. 



By ALEX KILPATRICK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Vampire Weekend’s 2008 self-titled debut came as quite a sur­prise, with four Columbia University grads with a clean Afro-pop-influenced indie rock sound making it big in the main­stream. It was definitely college rock at its finest, something one might be inclined to listen to at Cape Cod with a glass of cham­pagne in hand and a chandelier in view somewhere in the back­ground. But somehow, the main­stream caught on, and it became a favorite in dorm rooms, TV commercials and Top 40 radio stations alike. The indie rock quartet did it with style, originality and hints of ennui. 
But they were anything but apathetic, as their songs all had a clear sense of energy and incorporated cleverness and Afro-pop with lyrics about colle­giate struggles and trust funds. The debut album even made NME’s “Top 100 Greatest Albums of the Decade” list, ranking as no. 42. And now, they’ve done it again with their 
sopho­
more effort, “Contra,” an album that brings the creativity up a notch with a fuller, more frenet­ic sound and more mixing of genres from synth pop to hip-hop to reggae and even elec­tronic accents. The indie rock band also 


seems to move away from their Northeast roots and takes on a West Coast aesthetic for the new album. 
It begins with “Horchata,” a song with excell ent 
African beats and the clever yet silly lyrics, “In December drink­ing horchata / I’d look psychotic in a balaclava.” “White Sky” then demonstrates lead singer Ezra Koenig’s clear ability to reach a high-pitched falsetto and portrays the band’s mixture of genres with a good 


instrumentation. 
“Holiday” has a summery California feel, and if you need a break from the bleak South Bend winter cold, just give this song a listen. “Holiday” has hints of an orchestral sound reminiscent of Grizzly Bear, while “California English” is more fast-paced and frenetic, much like the nonsensical chaos of “Oxford Comma” but to an even greater degree, with lyrics, “Sweet carob rice cake / She don’t care how the sweets taste / Fake Philly cheese steak / But she use real toothpaste,” which beg the question, Vampire Weekend, what are you talking about? 
“Taxi Cab” is more slow-paced with a classical sounding piano instrumentation that makes the song sound like it could be a soundtrack to Masterpiece Theatre. Koenig’s trebling falset­to is heard throughout the electronic-influ­enced “Run,” but it is the African-inflected synth that truly carries the frantic song. 
“Cousins,” the leading single off the album, is and uses of the same guitar riffs as M79 off their first album, but the catchy cho­rus, new surf-
influenced riffs and bells make the single interesting. “Giving Up the Gun” is also strong on the bells with a synthy arena rock sound, but the lyrics are not quite as origi­nal as we would expect from Vampire Weekend on the cho­rus, “And though it’s been a long time / You’re right back where you started from.” 
A personal favorite, “Diplomat’s Son” brings in the trebling violins and high-pitched back-up vocals. It’s much more mellow than the rest of the album and seems like a cool mix between classic rock and an 
M.I.A. single, as it includes sam­ple from the controversial rap­per. “I Think Ur a Contra” takes it from mellow to more mellow with a quiet orchestral sound and shows that Vampire Weekend has soul as well as genius with the emotional lyrics, “You wanted good schools and friends with pools / … / But I just wanted you.” 


Overall, “Contra” proves that Vampire Weekend can succeed even when they move away from their Ivy League schooling and Northeast roots. The album certainly takes on a West Coast aesthetic but also has under­tones of reggae, electronic, and Afro-pop. Whether the main­stream will catch onto this soph­omore masterpiece is yet to be seen. 
Contact Alex Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 
Observer Graphic I MARY CECILIA MITSCH 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, January 18, 2010 
MLB 

St. Louis welcomes back McGwire with ovation 
downtown hotel ballroom 
Associated Press 
jammed with perhaps 1,000 

ST. LOUIS — Mark McGwire fans, and wore T-shirts made received a standing ovation for the occasion that said from Cardinals fans Sunday in “Welcome back, Big Mac his first public appearance in Land,” with a photograph of St. Louis since McGwire. admitting he “He did 
used steroids. His scheduled  “I spoke from my  wrong,” Jessica Schaaf said. “But  
news  confer- heart. I hope you all  we  still  love  
ence, only min­utes later, was much more  can accept this, let’s all move on from this.”  him.” In a brief appearance on  
combative.  stage, McGwire  
The  second  Mark McGwire  said  he  was  
session shifted  was to an  Cardinals hitting coach  happy about his chance to put on  
o v e r c r o w d e d  a  major league  
hallway at the  uniform  again.  

last minute, and McGwire evad-The former home run king ed questions about the criticism headed over to Busch Stadium, he’s received from ex-players. just blocks away, for an after-He repeatedly emphasized that noon hitting session with Colby he was ready to talk about the Rasmus and Ryan Ludwick, and game instead of performance-pledged to immerse himself in enhancing drugs. his new job. 
“I hope you all can accept “Like I told them, I’ll be the this,” McGwire said. “Let’s all first one in the cage and I’ll be move on from this. Baseball is the last one to leave,” McGwire great right now, baseball is bet-said. “I’m there for them, I’m ter.” there to pass on my knowl-
Dressed in jeans, a sweater edge.” and running shoes, the 46-McGwire, hired in October, year-old McGwire walked on added he had a “huge Rolodex stage to “Welcome to the of knowledge” to pass on to Jungle” by Guns N’ Roses, the Cardinals hitters. hard-rock song played before He was supposed to be at a his at-bats with the Cardinals. podium minutes later, but when The team’s new hitting coach his news conference was was cheered by moved into a fans who secured narrow hallway 
seats as much as 3.5 hours earlier. “I’ve learned a lot,” McGwire  “It’s not a great situation to be in, but he’s dealing with it  it left reporters jostling for space and shouting ques­ 
told  fans.  like a man.”  tions. The  ses­ 
“Especially  to  sion lasted just  
kids out there, steroids are bad.  Matt Holliday  more than six minutes before  
I  made  a  huge  Cardinals outfelder  questions were  
mistake in my life  cut  off  and  
and  it’s  some- McGwire  was  

thing I want you guys to learn escorted out by security and from. Don’t ever, ever go down police through a back door. that road.” A team official called the last-
Jessica and Sarah Schaaf minute switch an “executive were in the front row of a decision.” 

McGwire said he’s been “dead honest” in interviews since the admission. But he wasn’t inter­ested in rebutting criticism from former Oakland teammate Jose Canseco, who said McGwire is still lying by deny­ing that the two players inject­ed themselves with steroids in clubhouse bathroom stalls. 
“I’m not going down that road with Jose,” McGwire said. “I’ll take the high road with the Jose stuff.” 
Former Cardinals slugger Jack Clark, who called McGwire a “phony” in a St. Louis Post-Dispatch story last week, was booed in an appear­ance on the same stage not long before McGwire’s appear­ance. 
“I heard he said something, I don’t know what he said,” McGwire said. “Hey, listen, they have their opinions. I was being as honest as I am.” 
McGwire denied again that Tony La Russa, his manager virtually all of his career, had any knowledge of his steroids use until the day he went pub­lic. 
“I kept this to myself,” McGwire said. “You know what? I spoke from my heart. I hope you all can accept this, let’s all move on from this.” 
La Russa is ready for the day steroids ceases to be an issue, telling fans that McGwire deserves another chance. 
“I’m just here to tell you this is a really good man,” La Russa said. 
Teammates have consistently been supportive, too. Cardinals slugger Matt Holliday, who has hit with McGwire in prior off-seasons, although not this one, said he’s never brought up the steroids topic. 
“It’s not a great situation to be in, but he’s dealing with it like a man,” Holliday said. “He doesn’t have to explain any­thing to me.” 
MLB 

Outfelder Kemp signs 2-year, $10.95M deal with Dodgers 
from 2008, his first full big guess I’m going to have to do Dodgers’ ace-free rotation in ner. 
Associated Press 

league campaign. better this year.” victories, he didn’t win in nine “I’m glad Billingsley signed,” 
LOS ANGELES — Matt Kemp “We’ve been talking for a The Dodgers also avoided appearances after Aug. 18 and Kemp said. “He’s a client of and the Los Angeles Dodgers while, and both sides agreed to arbitration with right-hander dropped out of manager Joe Stu’s, so it’s a good day for our agreed Friday to a $10.95 mil-a deal and we got it done. So Chad Billingsley, who agreed to Torre’s playoff rotation. He camp. Hopefully we can get lion, two-year contract, avoid-both sides are happy,” Kemp a $3.85 million, one-year deal. made his only playoff appear-everybody else signed and get ing salary arbitration. told The Associated Press at Billingsley was an All-Star in ance in relief during Los ready for the season. We’re just 
Kemp batted .297 with 26 halftime of Friday night’s 2009 with nine early wins, but Angeles’ 11-0 loss to trying to get to that next step, homers and 101 RBIs last sea-Lakers-Clippers game. “I was he struggled in the second half Philadelphia in Game 3 of the and that’s getting to the World son. He stole 34 bases and won pretty satisfied with my num-and finished 12-11 with a 4.03 NL championship series. Series. We made it to the NLCS his first Gold Glove in center bers last year, but I’d have been ERA for the NL West champi-Kemp and Billingsley are rep-twice, and we haven’t gotten field while improving on almost more satisfied if we would have ons. resented by Dave Stewart, the past the Phillies the last two all of his offensive statistics gotten to the World Series. So I Although Billingsley led the former four-time 20-game win-years.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

opportunity. Volunteer Sign Up Bulla Rd., across from O'Hara-
HOUSE FOR RENT $500/PERSON Times at ECDC-ND (attend one of Grace Residences at the corner ofFOR RENT 2 FULL BATHS 4 BDRM **WALK WANTED the following sessions): 1) Monday, Leahy &amp; Bulla. For more infor-PERSONAL 
TO ND** 54650 WILLIS CALL 574-Jan. 18, from 3:15-5:15 p.m. 2) mation - www.nd.edu/~ecdcnd 
277-8471 Tuesday, Jan. 19, from 3:15-5:15 
gradrentals.viewwork.com Volunteer Opportunities at the Early p.m. Required new volunteer orien-Ron Burgundy: I don't know how to 
Childhood Development Center at tation (attend one of the following Business Major wanted for Campus put this but I'm kind of a big deal. Luxury 2 Bed 2 Full Bath Off-Campus housing 2010-2011, Notre Dame (ECDC-ND) The sessions): 1) Wednesday, Jan. 20, Manager ar ND. You will design a Veronica Corningstone: Really. Apartments For IMMEDIATE Move Irish Crossings, Dublin Village 2,3,4 ECDC-ND located on the ND cam-4:30-5:30 p.m. 2) Thursday, Jan. marketing plan, hire workers, and Ron Burgundy: People know me. In! Full Size Washer and Dryer, bedrooms still available. Furnished pus is scheduling college students 21, 6-7 p.m. If you have volun-implement the plan. Great resume Veronica Corningstone: Well, I'm Optional Fireplace, Dishwasher, and UnFurnished. Hurry only a few to volunteer in the preschool and teered before at ECDC-ND, please builder opportunity. Salary +com-very happy for you. Walk In Closets, Awesome left. Best living, safety, Value. CES kindergarten classrooms. If you call 631-3344 or mission. Contact: Ron Burgundy: I'm very important. I Floorplan For Roomates! Property Management, 574-968-enjoy playing games and reading nzavadaecdc@yahoo.com to Bettyjo@BoxMyDorm.com 317-have many leather-bound books Call Today For Discounted ND 0112 stories to young children, please schedule your time. ECDC-ND is 679-6082 and my apartment smells of rich Student Pricing! 574-256-1350. consider this two-hours-per-week located on the ND campus on mahogany. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around t eNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Monday, January 18, 2010 
page 15 

NCAA Men’s Basketball Division I AP Poll 
team previous 
1 Texas 2 2 Kentucky 3 3 Kansas 1 4 Villanova 6 5 Syracuse 7 6 Purdue 4 7 Michigan State 10 8 Duke 5 9 Tennessee 16 10 West Virginia 8 11 Georgetown 12 12 North Carolina 9 13 Kansas State 11 14 Wisconsin 17 15 Connecticut 13 16 Pittsburgh 23 17 Gonzaga 19 18 BYU 25 19 Temple 21 20 Georgia Tech 20 21 Mississippi 14 22 Baylor NR 23 Miami (Fla.) NR 24 Clemson NR 25 Florida State 18 
NCAA Women’s Basketball Division I AP Poll 
team  previous  
1  Connecticut  1  
2  Stanford  2  
3  NOTRE DAME  3  
4  Tennessee  4  
5  Ohio State  6  
6  Georgia  8  
7  Duke  9  
8  Texas A&M  10  
9  Baylor  5  
10  North Carolina  7  
11  Nebraska  12  
12  LSU  11  
13  Oklahoma  14  
14  Xavier  16  
15  Oklahoma State  23  
16  Florida State  13  
17  Green Bay  18  
18  West Virginia  22  
19  Texas  15  
20  Michigan State  19  
21  Georgia Tech  20  
22  TCU  25  
23  Virginia  21  
24  Georgetown  NR  
25  Miami (Fla.)  NR  



around the dial 
College Basketball 
Texas at Kansas State 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 
Magic at Lakers 
10:30 p.m., TNT 
NFL 


Bears defensive end Adams dies at 26 
Associated Press 

GREENWOOD, S.C. — Gaines Adams, an All-American defensive end at Clemson whose career never blossomed in the NFL with Chicago and Tampa Bay, died Sunday after going into cardiac arrest. He was 26. 
He died at Self Regional Hospital after going into car­diac arrest about an hour before at his family’s home in Greenwood, said Marcia Kelley-Clark, chief deputy coroner for Greenwood County. 
An autopsy showed an enlarged heart, a condition that can often lead to a heart attack, Kelley-Clark added. She said relatives were unaware of any medical con­dition. 
Toxicology tests are being run by the State Law Enforcement Division, though drug use is not sus­pected. The results probably will not be available for at least two months, Kelley-Clark said. 
Adams, 6-foot-5 and 258 pounds, spent three seasons in the NFL, two with the Buccaneers and part of this season with the Bears. 
“He was a true team play­er and a positive influence to everyone he met,” Buccaneers coach Raheem Morris said. 
Adams was selected fourth overall in the 2007 draft by Tampa Bay. He had not been able to live up to expecta­tions that he would revive the Buccaneers’ once-feared pass rush, and had just 17 tackles and one sack in 15 games — 10 with Chicago — this season. He was traded to the Bears in October for a second-round pick in the 2010 draft. 

“Gaines was a quiet, hum­ble kid and is far too young to be gone,” Buccaneers cor­nerback Ronde Barber said. “He had so much potential that had yet to be achieved.” 
Buccaneers defensive tackle Chris Hovan said he took Gaines under his wing when he came to Tampa Bay. 
“I considered him my little brother and that’s how I will always remember him,” he said. “This is all so unreal and it hasn’t really hit me yet.” 
“Monday Night Football” analyst Jon Gruden drafted Adams in 2007 while coach­ing the Buccaneers. He called him a “great team­mate” with a “tremendous future.” 
Morris said at the start of training camp that Adams would be considered a “bust” if he didn’t reach dou­ble digits in sacks. Adams fell short of the benchmark, although he welcomed the challenge. 
“In football you need that,” Adams said in August. “Players tend to get in their own element and do things that they want to do. They need to be called out some­times. He’s the coach. Whatever he says goes.” 
IN BRIEF 

Former Bears DT Dvoracek arrested 
NORMAN, Okla. — Former Chicago Bears defensive tackle Dusty Dvoracek has been arrested on charges of public intoxication, assault and battery and interfer­ence with official process. 
Norman police records indicate the 26-year-old Dvoracek was arrested around 1 a.m. Saturday at Seven47, a restaurant near the University of Oklahoma. 
Dvoracek appeared in 13 games in four seasons with the Bears after being drafted in the fourth round in 2006. He was placed on the waived/injured list in August because of a torn ACL in his right knee. 
While at Oklahoma, he was tem­porarily dismissed from the Sooners after an altercation at a bar in Norman. He was reinstated after anger-management and alco­hol-related counseling. 
Ravens safety Ed Reed considering retirement 
INDIANAPOLIS — Baltimore Ravens safety Ed Reed is considering retire­ment after an injury-filled season. 
The 31-year-old Reed missed four December games because of a variety of injuries, including problems with his neck, hip and groin. 
“I’ve been thinking about it, and it kind of hit me on the sidelines,” he said Saturday after a 20-3 playoff loss to the Colts. “It’s going to be a long offseason. It hurts. I am just thinking about it. 
“I’m 50-50. I am going to re-evaluate things and see how it goes in the next couple of days.” 
The six-time Pro Bowler was the 2004 Defensive Player of the Year. He had one interception of Peyton Manning on Saturday night, but fum­bled on his runback, handing the ball back to the Colts. He also had an inter­ception and long return erased by a pass interference penalty on teammate Corey Ivy. 

Ex -MLB All -Star Jose Offerman punches ump 
SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic — Former major league All-Star Jose Offerman threw a punch at an umpire during an argument in a Dominican winter league game Saturday night, the second time in 2 1/2 years that he’s attacked someone on a basball field. 
Offerman, manager of the Licey Tigers, appeared to hit first base umpire Daniel Rayburn in the face or neck with his fist during a heated discussion in a game against the Cibao Giants. Rayburn fell to the ground. 
Offerman was detained by stadium security and taken to a police station to wait until the end of the game to see if Rayburn would press charges. 
The Giants were winning 6-0 in the third inning of the final game of the win­ter league semifinal playoff series when plate umpire Jason Bradley ejected catcher Ronny Paulino for arguing balls and strikes. 
page 16 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, January 18, 2010 Monday, January 18, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NFL 

QB Warner unsure of future with Cardinals 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — Kurt Warner’s pass had just been intercepted, and the Arizona quarterback charged over to help make the tackle. Before he had a chance, he was flat­tened by a big defensive end. 
It was quite an omen for a man already considering retirement. 
“Every time you take a hit like that, it makes you think twice about playing this game,” Warner said with a night, the Cardinals appeared to be picking up right where they left off. 
They did — but only on defense. 
After giving up 35 points to Green Bay in the second half, Arizona allowed 35 in the first half against the Saints, a pace Warner and the offense couldn’t match. 
Two other key injuries might have done in the Cardinals’ hopes of defending as NFC champs even before Warner went down. Arizona 

laugh. “But “Every time you take lost two start-something like a hit like that, it ing defensive that, or even backs in the 
makes you think
this game, will first half as not be the twice about playing New Orleans determining this game.” built its big factor on my lead. Pro Bowl decision.” cornerback
Kurt Warner 
A week after Dominiq ue one of his finest Cardinals quarterback Rodgers-

performances, Warner was no match for Drew Brees and the New Orleans Saints in their divisional playoff game Saturday night. Warner threw for 205 yards and no touchdowns in the Cardinals’ 45-14 loss. 
Now he’ll have to decide whether to return next sea­son or call it a career. Warner missed a game with a concussion earlier this sea­son, and there’s been wide­spread speculation that the 38-year-old is about to retire. 
“Obviously, as I’ve said a million times, I’ve thought about it a lot and have over the last couple years, ” Warner said. “I have some ideas in my head, but again, you want to get away from the season for a minute and make sure everything you’re feeling stays that way.” 
Cardinals coach Ken Whisenhunt didn’t shed much light on what Warner might do. 
“It’s a little bit early to talk about that,” he said. 
Warner was hurt again against the Saints, leaving in the second quarter with a chest injury after he was intercepted by Will Smith and hit by 260 -pound Bobby McCray while running toward Smith. Warner going back and 

“That’s what good 
returned at the forth,” Warner start of the teams do. They create said. “That ’s second half turnovers, they what good with his team teams do. They 
capitalize on them.” 
trailing 35-14, c r e a t e but the turnovers, they Cardinals Kurt Warner capitalize on never threat -Cardinals quarterback them.” 
ened after that, 
a n d  b a c k u p  
M a t t  L e i n a r t  
c a m e  b a c k  i n  l a t e  i n  t h e  
game.  
Wa r n e r  s a i d  h e  d o e s n ’t  

anticipate a drawn-out deci­sion-making process about his future. 
“I would never want to do that, either way, to an organ­ization,” he said. “I want to let them know as soon as I know for sure.” 
Last weekend, Warner threw for 379 yards and five touchdowns in a 51-45 over­time win over Green Bay. When Arizona ’s Tim Hightower ran 70 yards for a touchdown on the first play from scrimmage Saturday Cromartie went 
out with a sprained left knee, and safety Antrel Rolle left with a head injury. 
Arizona was also playing without wide receiver Anquan Boldin, who has been nursing left ankle and knee injuries since the regular-season finale. 
Warner has played in three Super Bowls, winning one with the St. Louis Rams. If he does decide to retire, his career would end in the same building where he endured one of his toughest defeats, a 20-17 loss to New England in the 2002 Super Bowl. 
This game wasn’t nearly that close. After taking a 7-0 lead, Arizona gained only 41 yards the rest of the first quarter in falling behind 21­
7. It was 28-14 when Warner got hurt. 
Warner finished 17 of 26. His longest pass of the game was his first one, a 28-yarder to Jerheme Urban. Urban fumbled at the end of the play and the Saints recov­ered. New Orleans drove for a 14-7 lead and never looked back. 
“I’d like to think that we were going to march that down and put some points on 
the board and kind of get it 
Warner’s 
counterpart 
was nearly flawless. Brees went 23 of 32 for 247 yards and three touchdowns, putting the game out of reach even for the Cardinals’ powerful offense. The focus in Arizona now turns to Warner, who says his family will have plenty of input as he consid­ers his future. 
“It goes back and forth, what they want me to do. They’ ll be a part of that process as well, ” Warner said. “Obviously, specifically my wife will be a big part of that process. I don’t know if I can weigh the kids’ opinions too strongly.” 
NFL 

Vikings rout Cowboys 34-3 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — This is why Brett Favre said he was coming back. And back he is 
— maybe better than ever. Four — count ‘em, four — touchdown passes from Minnesota’s 40 -year-old quarterback put the Vikings within a game of the Super Bowl with a 34-3 rout of the Dallas Cowboys to advance to the NFC championship Sunday. 
“Probably the most fatigued I got today was cel­ebrating,” Favre said, smil­ing. 
The Vikings (13 -4) will take on the Saints next Sunday at New Orleans, with the winner going to the NFL title game — Favre’s season-long goal and the reason he came out of retirement for a second straight season. 
“Today was like this sea­son — it’s been wonderful,” Favre said. Asked if it was an emotional game for him, he said, “I’m kind of worn out right now, but it is. It was emotional before the game.” 
Favre found Sidney Rice for three scores and Ray Edwards led the defense’s harassment of Tony Romo. Then he put an exclamation point on the game late in the fourth quarter when he hit Visanthe Shiancoe for his personal playoff-best fourth TD pass. 
Never in 22 previous post­season games had he thrown for that many touchdowns. And never before had he beaten Dallas in the playoffs. Favre completed 15 of 24 passes for 234 yards to final­ly do it. 
Meanwhile, Romo sat stone -faced on the bench between possessions in the second half after a three-turnover game against one of his childhood favorites. 
Romo was sacked six times, three by Edwards, lost two of his three fumbles and threw a glaring interception right to Ben Leber deep in his own end late in the third quarter to set up a field goal. After gaining 118 yards in the first quarter, the Cowboys got only 130 the rest of the way and watched the buzz from their first playoff win in 13 years last week fizzle out. 
“It’s like the elevator falling from the top. It’s tough when it’s over. If you don’t win it all, you have not reached your goal,” coach Wade Phillips said. 
Romo finished 22 for 35 for 198 yards, but for all the strides he made this season his lack of poise in the din of the Metrodome will be remembered well. The last time Dallas won a playoff game on the road was the NFC championship after the 1992 season. 
Favre had a remarkable regular season with a career-low interception total of seven and 33 touchdown passes that pushed the Vikings to their best finish in 11 years. They won their division last season, too, so this return to the playoffs was irrelevant. 
The once -unfathomable partnership was formed just for this, a talented team hoping to hitch those title hopes to Favre, who was driven to disprove the doubts about his ability to get back to the big game again. 

“It was everything I thought it would be through­
out this year and then some,” Favre said. 
He took some hard hits by Dallas and that fierce front seven, but he was as sharp as he was all season. Stepping up in the pocket to elude the rush and making the right reads downfield, Favre looked the part of the missing Super Bowl piece the Vikings were searching for when they persuaded him to join them last sum­mer. 
“He’s playing his heart out,” defensive end Jared Allen said. 
After a 35-yard heave to Rice midway through the fourth quarter that stretched the lead to 27-3, Favre ran up to right guard Anthony Herrera and jumped on his back while the fans enjoyed the frenzy. 
The Vikings, who had last week off while the Cowboys whipped Philadelphia, were bothered by all the people picking Dallas to win. 
“The Tasmanian devils were coming from Dallas that were about to bombard the state of Minnesota and run through us like Sherman through the South,” coach Brad Childress said, exag­gerating popular opinion about this game. “All of us felt it quite palpably.” 
The Vikings played Dallas only three times in the last decade, hardly rivalry mate­rial, but fans in Minnesota have plenty of contempt for the Cowboys. Favre brought his own history of defeat, though scattered and dis­tant, against them with three straight postseason losses early in his career. 
It was football’s original “Hail Mary” heave in 1975 that sent Dallas one step toward the Super Bowl and left another stinging loss with Bud Grant’s bridesmaid Vikings, who believed Drew Pearson was guilty of pass interference on the play. Oh, and don ’t forget another dubious Dallas-Minnesota link, the ill-fated Herschel Walker trade that fueled the ‘90s dynasty built by the Cowboys. 
So maybe this game meant a little more to the guys in purple than simply moving on to the semifinal, if not for the players then for the peo­ple who have cheered for the purple for 49 years without a championship. 
The crowd was loud, as it usually is under the roof where the Vikings won all eight games this season, and that helps the defensive line here as much as any posi­tion. 
The turning point came in the first quarter during a second straight too -easy drive for Dallas. Romo fum­bled a second-down snap at the 35, and on fourth-and-1 at the 30 coach Wade Phillips sent Shaun Suisham out for a field goal. It went wide left, as did his try from 49 yards in the third quar­ter. 
Suisham, ironically, missed a late 23-yard kick while he was with Washington last month that cost the Redskins a victory over then-unbeaten New Orleans. If the Saints had lost that game, the Vikings would be hosting the NFC championship. 
Four plays later, Favre found Rice in single cover­age and fired a perfectly placed ball up the sideline from 47 yards out for a 7-0 lead. 
Just like that, the Cowboys were behind for the first time since their loss to San Diego on Dec. 13. 
The Vikings then gave their defense a badly needed break, moving 80 yards in 10 plays and taking a 14-3 lead when Favre slipped past Marcus Spears and found Rice open again for a 16-yard touchdown pass. 
Later, Allen stuffed Felix Jones for a 1-yard loss and then blew by Flozell Adams to sack Romo and force the ball out on the next play. Kevin Williams recovered at the 20, Adams hurt his leg and the Vikings added a field goal for a 14-point lead. 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, January 18, 2010 
MEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 
Irish drop two straight at home over weekend 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame dropped two meets 
at  home  this  weekend,  to  
Michigan  State  and  No.  16  
Louisville, respectively.  

Despite winning six events, the Irish (4-4, 1-1 Big East) dropped Friday’s match against Michigan State 179-121. 
“Michigan State did an out­standing job preparing for this meet," Irish coach Tim Welsh told und.com. "They were miles faster than they were last week against Purdue. All the credit goes to them to have done the exten­

sive preparation “All the credit goes to to be ready them to have the 
tonight.” 

extensive preparation
Bill Bass, Wesley Mullins, to be ready tonight.” Michael Sullivan and John Lytle all 
Tim Welsh 
won individual 

Irish head coach
events. Lytle fin­ished first in both the 200-yard individual medley and the 50­yard freestyle. 
The sixth Irish win came in the 400-yard freestyle relay. Joshua Nosal, Thomas Van Volkenburg, Andrew Hoffman, and Bass all competed in the event for Notre Dame. 
“On our part, we were a little flat,” Welsh said. “We are in a mode where we are trying to focus on championship times, so we adjusted some events. Some of that was good for us and some was not.” 
On Saturday, the Irish lost a competitive 166-134 meet against Louisville. 
“What we did today is what we want to do in every meet,” Welsh told und.com. “Not in terms of wins or losses, but we raced with spirit, heart and commitment. We were much faster than last week. This was our fastest non-champi­onship meet of the year.” 
Lytle won a pair of events (200­yard and 100-yard freestyle) for 
the second con­secutive day for the Irish. 
Also victorious for Notre Dame were Wesley Villaflor, Nathan Geary and Petar Petrovic. 
“It's a giant step from where we were last night against Michigan 
State, and I'm very proud of how our men rebounded,” Welsh said. “Congratulations to Louisville on a hard-fought win.” 
The Irish will now prepare for the Shamrock Invitational, which will be held on Jan. 29 and 30. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
NBA 

Celtics’ Allen wants change 
Associated Press 
Unwanted by their teams, Allen Iverson and Tracy McGrady are still adored by their fans. 
The Memphis Grizzlies quickly parted ways with Iverson. The Houston Rockets are trying to trade McGrady. 
Maybe the players can swap stories of their rocky roads while covering each other at the All-Star game. 
Despite having little to no impact this season, both went into the final hours of voting in position to start, thanks to loyal fans who still consider them stars even though their stats say otherwise. 
And with fans showing signs of getting it so wrong, Boston Celtics guard Ray Allen thinks it’s time to limit their influence. The nine-time All-Star said the fan voting has made the game “watered down” and calls for a change in the process. 
“I like the fact that the fans get the opportunity to vote and pick who they’d like to see in the All-Star game, but I don’t think it should be 100 percent,” Allen said this week. 
Allen said fans should have 50 percent of the vote, with the other 50 percent being divided evenly between the media and the players. He said players know who is playing the best, and believes with his idea, “you’d look at five guys starting the All-Star team regardless of hype or highlight.” 

The NBA likes things the way they are. 
“We look at it as a great way to engage the fans,” NBA spokesman Brian McIntyre said. “We think it’s a good system.” 
The NBA went to fan voting for the starters in the mid-70s and this season made it even more available to its fans by allowing them to vote by text messaging. Paper balloting has already closed, but votes can be cast until 11:59 p.m. Monday night on nba.com or by texting a player’s last name to 6-9-6-2-2 (MYNBA). Starters will be announced Thursday night. 
McGrady has a good chance of being passed, as his lead over Steve Nash for the second guard spot in the Western Conference was only 2,375 votes when the most recent update was released on Jan. 7. He hasn’t been able to strengthen his case since then, since he’d already been granted a leave from the Rockets while they try to find a trade. 
He’s played sparingly in only six games this season since com­ing back from knee surgery, and Allen thinks commissioner David Stern should consider a rule mandating a player appear in a minimum number of games to be eligible. 
“Tracy, if he played, I’m sure he’d play well enough to be an All-Star player because he’s done that his career,” Allen said. “But again, that’s taking away from another player in the Western Conference that’s hav­ing a great year, that’s been playing, that deserves to be in there.” 
Iverson had a better shot of holding on to his No. 2 spot in the East, leading Vince Carter by more than 185,000 votes. He’s listed with West players on the paper ballot after starting the season in Memphis, but his votes count in the East since he signed with the Philadelphia 76ers. 
He hasn’t played at an All-Star level this season, but fans may be looking at what he’s done in the past. 
“A lot of times voting reflects career achievement as well as yearly achievements,” McIntyre said. 
Allen also mentioned getting the coaches, who pick the reserves, involved in selecting the starters. Even that may not guarantee the most deserving 10 players, since coaches could have their own opinions about who belongs in the All-Star game. 
During Shaquille O’Neal’s unproductive, injury-plagued final season in Miami in 2008, former Knicks coach Isiah Thomas said he planned to vote him as a reserve anyway, recall­ing when he played that respect­ed older players such as Julius Erving still made All-Star teams late in their careers. 


Monday, January 18, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
MLB 

Lincecum, 128 others fle for pay arbitration 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Two-time NL Cy Young Award winner Tim Lincecum highlighted the list of 128 players who filed for salary arbitration Friday, with many likely to gain enormous raises in the annual process. 
Lincecum has been one of baseball’s best bargains, earn­ing $405,000 from the San Francisco Giants in 2008 and $650,000 last season, when he became the NL’s first repeat Cy Young winner since Randy Johnson from 1999-02. 
The deadline for players to file for arbitration was Friday. Lincecum is eligible for the first time and figures to earn $10 million or more this year after going 33-12 over the past two seasons. 
Other notable players eligible for the first time include Tampa Bay pitcher Matt Garza, Texas outfielder Josh Hamilton, Chicago White Sox outfielder Carlos Quentin and Tampa Bay outfielder B.J. Upton. 
Also due for big raises are Seattle pitcher Felix Hernandez, White Sox closer Bobby Jenks, Boston closer Jonathan Papelbon and Philadelphia out­fielder Shane Victorino. The Mariners hope to strike a long­term deal with Hernandez, 19-5 with a 2.49 ERA last year, when he finished second in AL Cy Young voting. 
While more than 200 players were eligible for arbitration when the season ended, clubs let many of them become free agents and already agreed to contracts with others. Among those who filed Friday, at least half are likely to settle before players and teams swap pro­posed salaries on Tuesday. 
For those who don’t settle, hearings will be scheduled for the first three weeks of February in St. Petersburg, Fla. 
The 111 players in arbitration last year earned a record aver­age increase of 172 percent to $3.07 million, according to a study by The Associated Press. 
Players with three to six years of major league service are eli­gible, along with the top 17 per­cent by service time of players between two and three years. In addition, two free-agent pitch­ers accepted arbitration offers to return to their former clubs: Minnesota’s Carl Pavano and Colorado’s Rafael Betancourt. 
The Twins had eight players who filed for arbitration, tied for most in the majors with the Los Angeles Angels and Chicago Cubs. 
New York Mets pitcher John Maine became the first of the 128 in arbitration to settle, agreeing to a $3.3 million, one-year contract that includes the chance to make $225,000 in performance bonuses based on starts. Houston infielder Jeff Keppinger agreed to a $1.15 million, one-year contract, and Los Angeles Dodgers center fielder Matt Kemp then final­ized a $10.95 million, two-year deal. 
Eight players agreed to one-year contracts Friday instead of filing, including Arizona out­fielder Conor Jackson ($3.1 mil­lion) and catcher Miguel Montero ($2 million), and a pair of Texas pitchers: Brandon McCarthy ($1.3 million) and Dustin Nippert ($665,000). 
San Diego closer Heath Bell ($4 million), Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher Chad Billingsley ($3.85 million), San Francisco reliever Brandon Medders ($820,000) and Houston pitcher Chris Sampson ($815,000) also agreed to con­tracts. 
Among free agents, first base­man Adam LaRoche and Arizona finalized a one-year contract that guarantees him $6 million. LaRoche gets $4.5 mil­lion this year, and the deal includes a $7.5 million mutual option for 2011 with a $1.5 mil­lion buyout. LaRoche receives the buyout if either side declines, and if he gets traded the option price would increase to $9.5 million. 
The 30-year-old hit .277 for Atlanta, Boston and Pittsburgh last season with 25 homers and 83 RBIs. He has a .274 career average in six seasons. 
NFL 

Jets shock favored Chargers 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO — Maybe Rex Ryan already knows the score of the AFC championship game, too. 
The rookie coach who, at one point, didn’t know his Jets were still in playoff contention, then declared them Super Bowl favorites, will need some more bold predictions. 
His Jets are still playing. 
Rookies Mark Sanchez and Shonn Greene led New York to a stunning 17-14 upset of San Diego in the divisional playoffs Sunday, each providing a touchdown in the fourth quar­ter that marked another Chargers postseason pratfall. 
“It’s a big win for our fran­chise,” Sanchez said, “and we’re not done.” 
Sanchez threw a go-ahead, 2-yard touchdown pass to tight end Dustin Keller three plays into the fourth quarter, then Greene gave the Jets some breathing room with a 53-yard scoring run on their next pos­session. 
The upstart Jets (11-7), who have won seven of their last eight, advanced to the AFC championship game for the first time since 1999. They’ll play at top-seeded Indianapolis next Sunday. 
“A matchup that probably nobody wanted, but too bad,” Ryan said. “Here we come!” 
Of course, it was the Colts who pulled Peyton Manning and other starters in the sec­ond half of their Week 16 game against the Jets, who rallied for a victory that put them in control of their playoff destiny. 
Before that game, Ryan said his holiday wish was for the Colts to rest Manning & Co. 
“I don’t know if Santa Claus will be that good to me again,” Ryan said. “But I will say that I’d like to see Peyton Manning not play this week.” 
After the Jets finally did clinch a playoff spot by routing Cincinnati the following week, Ryan, their rookie head coach, created a postseason itinerary for his players that included the Super Bowl in Miami fol­lowed by a parade two days later. 
He might be onto something. 
Maybe this week he’ll pre­dict the Jets’ opponent in the Super Bowl. 
“We believed the whole time, the whole year, when it proba­bly wasn’t the popular choice,” Ryan said. “We don’t have to apologize to anyone.” 
The Chargers let New York hang around long enough, and the Jets finally got out of their own way, becoming the only road team to win in the divi­sional round. 

After Philip Rivers scored on a 1-yard sneak with 2:14 left to pull the Chargers within three, the Jets recovered the onside kick. 
Facing a fourth-and-1 from the 29 with 1:09 left, the Jets called timeout. Ryan decided to go for it and Thomas Jones bulled through the Chargers’ line for 2 yards. 
Sanchez pumped his fist and pointed his hand forward in the first-down signal. 
On the sideline, Ryan lifted much smaller offensive coordi­nator Brian Schottenheimer off the ground in a bear hug. 
The Chargers (13-4) not only saw their 11-game winning streak end, but suffered yet another playoff meltdown after earning the AFC’s No. 2 seed. 
“You’d like to play your best games in January in games like this, and certainly, for whatever reason, we did not do that today,” Chargers coach Norv Turner said. 
Sanchez, playing in his native Southern California, went from looking like the rookie that he is to a guy who has now has two straight play­off wins on the road. He was intercepted by Quentin Jammer midway through the third quarter, but the Jets got the ball back on an intercep­tion when the ball ricocheted off Vincent Jackson and into the hands of cornerback Darrelle Revis as both were sprawled on the ground. 

The Jets weren’t able to cap­italize on that pickoff, but Rivers’ second interception was costly. On second-and-9 from his 5, Rivers underthrew Antonio Gates, who hadn’t even turned around, with safe­ty Jim Leonhard intercepting and returning it to the 16. 
On third down, Sanchez rolled right and threw to Keller, who shed linebacker Tim Dobbins in the back cor­ner of the end zone and made a sprawling 2-yard catch that put the Jets ahead 10-7. 
Sanchez and the rest of the Jets ran over to congratulate Keller, then the rookie QB kept running to the bench, stopping once to celebrate with a team­mate. 
The Jets turned to their top-ranked running game on their next drive, and Greene, a third-round pick from Iowa, broke his long scoring run up the middle, running over safe­ty Eric Weddle in the process. 
“Once I got to the secondary, I had one tackle to break and I did, and it was off to the end zone,” Greene said. “A lot of people didn’t know about me, but they know about the Jets.” 
Greene rushed for 135 yards and a TD in last week’s playoff win against Cincinnati. 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Michigan tops No. 15 UConn 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. — Zack Novak made a tiebreaking 3­pointer with 1.5 minutes left and Manny Harris followed with a layup to lift Michigan a 68-63 win over No. 15 Connecticut on Sunday. 
Harris finished with 18 points for the Wolverines (10-7), who earned the signature win they needed in a season that started with them ranked 15th, coming off their first NCAA tournament bid since 1998. 

The Huskies (11-6) have lost three straight for the first time since closing the 2006-07 sea­son with four losses. 
Connecticut’s Kemba Walker had 15, Gavin Edwards scored 14, Jerome Dyson had 13 and Stanley Robinson added 11. 
The Huskies struggled at the free-throw line, missing four in the last 45 seconds and going 16 of 25 overall. Dyson, the team’s leading scorer, was 5 of 16 from the field and 2 for 5 at the line. 
Harris has played well all season for Michigan. For a change, he got plenty of help. 
Stu Douglass scored 13 points — making three 3-pointers — Novak had 10 points. DeShawn Sims had eight points and 11 rebounds while dealing with foul trouble and Anthony Wright nearly doubled his sea­son high with nine points. 
Novak’s clutch 3-pointer put Michigan ahead 61-58. He also made two free throws in the final minute to seal the victory that led to a fired-up crowd rushing the court. 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 18, 2010 
Palmieri 
continued from page 24 
from fellow freshman Kyle Palmieri and senior defense-man Kyle Lawson. Larson tied the game later in the second period with another goal, his fourth on the season. 
“[Larson] happened to be in the right place after a bad change by Michigan State,” Jackson said of 
Notre Dame took 46 shots on goal in the contest, compared to Michigan State’s 26. The 46 shots by the Irish were the most since the second game of the season on Oct. 10 in a 3-1 victory over Alabama ­Huntsville. Freshman goalie Mike Johnson made 24 saves. 
Notre Dame fell behind three goals Saturday before finding the back of the net. The Spartans scored two goals on Johnson in the first peri­od and then a 

La rson ’s  fi rst  “Those guys really  third less than  
g o al . “ He got a brea ka w ay and he stuck with the  looked like enough was enough.”  fi ve minu t es in to t h e s e c -ond period.  
puck  …  He got  a  “ I  th o ugh t  
great look at the  Jeff Jackson  th e  f i r s t  t wo  
n et a n d let good shot go.”  a  Irish coach  goals were  on Mike wea k,  
S en io r s  Ry an  b o t h  ba d  
T ha ng  and  Da n  angle shots,”  

Kissel sealed the game for Jackson said. “I have to get Notre Dame in the final peri-him out of this nervous mind­od; Thang scored twice and set about being able to come Kissel notched one goal. back on the second night of a 
“Our seniors played two-game series.” extremely well on the week-After the third goal, Jackson end; they played with a lot of put junior goaltender Brad passion,” Jackson said. “Those Phillips into goal. In the guys really looked like enough remaining 35 minutes of regu­was enough.” lation and five minutes of overtime, Phillips only gave up one goal, on a power play with 
2:21 left in regulation. 
“[Phillips] came in and made some good saves, held the fort for us, and gave us a chance to peck away,” Jackson said. “I told him at the end of the first period if Michigan State scored another goal he was going in. I think one of his issues has been a mental issue as far as thinking about it too much and he didn’t have a chance to think about it.” 
With Phillips in goal, the Irish offense clicked again, with goals from junior Calle Ridderwall and Thang in the second period, and from jun­ior Ben Ryan and Thang again in the third. 
“Our guys stepped up,” Jackson said. “When we scored the second one going into the third, we actually thought we could come out and win this game.” 
In the shootout all of Notre Dame’s shots were denied. One Spartan attempt made it past Phillips, giving Michigan State the shootout win. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Opener 
continued from page 24 

34 Big East qualifying marks and one NCAA qualifying mark. Notre Dame also claimed first place in half of the 32 events. Additionally, the Irish came away with a good idea of what to expect next weekend in the Notre Dame Invitational. 
Some standout performers for the Irish proved their dom­inance once again. Freshman sprinter Nevada Sorenson fin­ished first in the women’s 60­meter hurdles with a time of 
8.59. On the men’s side of the 60-meter hurdles, junior decathlon competitor Justin Schneider finished first with a time of 8.77. 
In the men’s pole vault, the brothers Kevin and Matt Schipper finished first and second, respectively, for the second consecutive meet. Kevin, a sophomore, set an NCAA provisional and a Big East qualifying mark with a vault of 5.20 meters. Matt, a senior, also made a strong showing, finishing close behind with a Big East quali­fying vault of 4.80 meters. 
In some events, the Irish were simply dominant. In the men’s 1000-meter race, Irish runners took the top three spots with sophomore Randall Babb, senior Cameron Eckert and freshman Trent Sayers finishing first, second and third, respectively. The Irish took the top five spots in the men’s 400-meter and 500­meter, and took the top four spots in the men’s 4x400­meter relay. 
In the women’s pole vault, former Irish All-American Mary Saxer competed unat­tached and tied her own Loftus Sports Center record with a vault of 4.15 meters. Freshman Chrissy Finkel and junior Jessica Sullivan quali­fied for the Big East Championships with a vaults of 3.40 meters each. 
The Irish will take on Michigan State and Louisville in the triangular Notre Dame Invitational this Friday and Saturday at the Loftus Sports Center. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Plumlee brothers lead Duke win 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. — Mason Plumlee tumbled to the floor, too shaken up to try his free throws. So big brother Miles stepped in and knocked them down. 
Duke’s pair of Plumlees sure must’ve seemed interchange­able to Wake Forest. 
Miles Plumlee had career highs of 19 points and 14 rebounds, Mason Plumlee added 11 points and the eighth-ranked Blue Devils pulled away late to beat the Demon Deacons 90-70 on Sunday night. 
“That makes us a complete team,” Miles Plumlee said. “Our perimeter’s been there, and they’re always going to be there for us. Now that we’ve got that real strong inside game, there’s not many peo­ple that can stop that.” 
Kyle Singler added 21 points and 15 rebounds and Nolan Smith had 20 points for the Blue Devils (15-2, 3-1 Atlantic Coast Conference). They over­came a defense determined to stop leading scorer Jon Scheyer, broke the game open with 13 straight points mid­way through the second half and rolled to their 13th straight win at Cameron Indoor Stadium. 
Al-Farouq Aminu had 22 points and 10 rebounds for the Demon Deacons (12-4, 2­2), who lost their 12th straight at Cameron and haven’t won here since 1997, when Tim Duncan was still in school. 
“We knew we had to con­centrate on their ‘Big Three,”’ said guard Ishmael Smith, referring to Duke’s trio of Singler, Scheyer and Smith. “But the Plumlee brothers got some offensive rebounds, and we got in trouble.” 
The Plumlees combined for 23 points and 17 rebounds in the first half, and it was the first time they scored in dou­ble figures in the same game for the Blue Devils, who have won nine of 10. They remained perfect at home and 10 of their 11 victories here have come by at least 20 points. 

“I thought (Wake Forest) played winning basketball,” Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski said. “So when you win a game where the other team was in position to be deserv­ing to win, it makes it a better win.” 
Chas McFarland added 17 points and 10 rebounds for Wake Forest, which rallied from 12 points down early in the second half with a 17-5 run and tied it at 55 on Aminu’s dunk with 14:07 left. 
Singler hit a 3-pointer 7 sec­onds later—“the biggest shot of the game,” Krzyzewski said—and Scheyer followed that with a three-point play. 
Then came the sequence that put Duke squarely in charge: Mason Plumlee soared in for a dunk and Smith collided with him in mid-air, knocking to the floor the Blue Devils’ freshman who said he didn’t even remember drawing contact because “I was looking at the rim.” 
“I hate seeing people fall like that—especially when it’s my brother,” Miles Plumlee said. “I was hurting on the inside.” 
Official Ray Natili called it an intentional foul, despite the Demon Deacons’ protests. 
“I felt like I made the play, but the refs made the call,” Smith said. “I would never try to intentionally hurt anybody. Hey, I came down pretty hard, too. But that wasn’t the turn­ing point of the game.” 
Miles Plumlee stepped in for his baby brother and hit both free throws, Lance Thomas added a jumper and Smith capped the burst with a 3 to make it 68-55 with 11:47 left. 
The traditionally guard-ori­ented Blue Devils knew 3­pointers were going to be hard to come by against the ACC’s best defense against the 3, and they finished 4 for 13 from long range. 
In a bruising game in which the teams combined for 47 fouls and three players fouled out, the Demon Deacons made it their mission to slow Scheyer. He scored nine points—nearly 11 fewer than his average—on 3-of-11 shooting and was held to sin-gle-digit scoring for the first time this season. 
“Obviously, I didn’t play as well as I could to help the team, but that just shows us a lot,” Scheyer said. “I didn’t play that well, and so many guys stepped up.” 
His backcourt mate, Smith, was 6 for 17 from the field. Still, it was more than enough to help the Blue Devils win their 42nd straight at Cameron against opponents other than North Carolina—a string that dates back to 2007. 
Ari Stewart added 14 points for Wake Forest, which took its only lead midway through the first half after Aminu’s free throw capped an 11-2 spurt that put the Demon Deacons up 32-28 with 6:14 left. The Blue Devils then closed the half by outscoring Wake Forest 18-6, a run that included three follow-up bas­kets from point-blank range by Mason Plumlee—including a nifty reverse dunk off Singler’s missed jumper. 
Scheyer’s 3 from the cor­ner—the only points of the first half for the ACC’s second-leading scorer—with 7 sec­onds left made it 46-38 at the break. Thomas’ jumper 19 seconds into the second half made it 48-38—the first dou­ble-figure lead by either team. 
NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
No. 4 Tennessee gets past Vandy 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. — Tennessee coach Pat Summitt has had it with her Lady Volunteers waiting until the last minute to seal their wins. 
After squeaking by Florida on Thursday, the fourth-ranked Lady Vols needed a few late shots and defensive stops to get by Vanderbilt 64-57 on Sunday night. 
“Don’t get me wrong, I’m pleased we found a way to win, but our coaching staff doesn’t want to be living on the edge the rest of this season,” she said. “We want to separate our­selves from the rest of the pack.” 
It’s a dangerous way to live in a Southeastern Conference that appears to have some parity this season. Vanderbilt was looking for its second straight upset of a top 10 team after beating sixth-ranked Georgia handily in Nashville on Thursday. 
Despite having an obvious size advantage, Tennessee (16­1, 4-0) struggled to stop the Commodores’ outside shooting as Vanderbilt (13-5, 2-3) hit 10 of 19 from 3-point range. 
“Every one of them can shoot lights out, so if you give them room they’re going to hit it,” Tennessee’s Angie Bjorklund said. 
Elan Brown hit a shallow jump shot with 1:41 left to cut Tennessee’s lead to 57-55. Glory Johnson, who led the Lady Vols with 17 points, answered by driving through the lane and hitting her own jumper. 
The Lady Vols, who hit an uncharacteristically low 57.7 percent of their free throws, sank five of their last six to seal the win. 
They made the mistake of leaving Merideth Marsh wide open on the perimeter. Marsh, who is filling in for an injured Jence Rhoads at point guard, led Vanderbilt with 23 points and hit five 3s. Brown added 10. 
“(Marsh) is a senior. She’s our rock right now,” Vanderbilt coach Melanie Balcomb said. “She’s doing everything she can. She’s a leader. She’s mak­ing shots. She doesn’t want to lose.” 



Monday, January 18, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Draft 
continued from page 24 
them. 
Morrow said he was wor­ried about whether he would get drafted after hearing his teammates’ names. However, he said he was relieved to find out where he will play. 
“I’m ready to go out to California and play soccer,” he said. “It’s a huge soccer state and I’m pretty excited about that. I know the fans are going to be great.” 



Morrow and Thomas agreed that it would be nice to play on a team together. 
“That was a great feeling,” Thomas said. “We ’re both really good friends, we’re teammates, we were room­mates last year. Hopefully we’ll be playing together for a long time.” 
Clark said he thinks the players will do well no mat­ter where they land. 
“I think at the end of the day they ’re all strong enough personalities that they’ll all handle their situa­tions well,” he said. “They’re really good people.” 
On the women’s side, for­ward Michele Weissenhofer became the seventh Notre Dame player drafted in the past two years. Weissenhofer was selected in the fourth round by the Chicago Red Stars with the 33rd overall pick. 
“I think [Weissenhofer ’s being drafted] speaks vol­umes about the quality that [Notre Dame is] putting out,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “And where we are and what people think of the kind of players we are pro­ducing here.” 
Weissenhofer, a Naperville, Ill. native, said she was excited to play for a team so close to home. The Red Stars play in Bridgeview, Ill., a mere half -hour east of Naperville. 
“I was really hoping to go to Chicago, ” she said. “I know how blessed and fortu­nate I am to be able to play at my hometown with my friends and family all being there to support me.” 
Weissenhofer amassed 30 goals and 27 assists in her time at Notre Dame, which was hampered by injuries throughout, including two pulled hamstrings during her senior year. Weissenhofer was named Soccer America national freshman of the year in 2006 with 18 goals and 17 assists in her first season. 
Waldrum said it is neither the injuries nor the out ­standing freshman season he will remember most about Weissenhofer ’s career at Notre Dame. 
“The one thing I think I’ll remember her career for is she was very good for us every year in the NCAA Tournament,” he said. “She always seemed to catch fire at the right time of year.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu and Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 18, 2010 
UConn 
continued from page 24 
be that good,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “They played well I thought, especially the first eight minutes of the game. They really came out and took charge. I expected that we would play a little better.” 
A steal and a resulting layup by senior guard Ashley Barlow tied the score at two just a minute and a half into the game. However, the Irish would 

not score again “We’re a very good happens. Maybe until a Barlow team, but we didn’t we’re pressing a jumper with little too much, 
play well.” 
13:34 to go in trying too hard.” the first half. Notre Dame Eight minutes Muffett McGraw will not have a in, the Huskies Irish coach long time to with 12 points while Barlow had 10. Guards freshman Skylar Diggins and senior Lindsay Schrader, who average double-digits, scored just six points each as the Irish were held to 26.9 percent shooting in the game. 
“I think that they played real­ly good defense, they played great pressure defense and so when we were open, maybe we rushed some of it,” McGraw said. “I can’t really say what the problem was, we obviously just shot poorly and I think there’s going to be games when that 
had pulled out to an insur­mountable 24-4 lead, and they went into halftime leading 42­19. 
Notre Dame played Connecticut more evenly in the second half, holding the Huskies to 9-of-26 shooting and turning the ball over just six times as opposed to 13 turnovers in the first half. The Huskies outscored the Irish 28­27 in the second half. 
“We gathered our poise, came in and did some good things,” McGraw said. “We played a lit­tle better defense, we rebound­ed better. We were back on our heels when we got 20 points down, and it took a lot to come out of it.” 
Connecticut’s Tina Charles set the tone for the Huskies, scor­ing 17 points in the first half and 23 in the game, as well as grabbing 13 rebounds. Maya Moore came in right behind Charles with 20 points and 11 rebounds. 
Junior forward Devereaux Peters led the Irish in scoring recover from the 
loss, as it travels 
to Louisville to 
take on the Cardinals Tuesday night. 
“We definitely need to work on that and really pick up the pieces and figure out how to move on, which is something we can do,” McGraw said. “We’re a very good team, but we didn’t play well.” 
Tip-off will be at 7 p.m. Tuesday in Louisville’s Freedom Hall. 
Note: 
u• Sophomore guard Fraderica Miller was unable to play Saturday due to tendonitis in her knee and will have sur­gery today. She will be out three to four weeks. 
“It’s disappointing,” McGraw said. “It’s just a scope, which isn’t as bad as losing a full sea­son, but it’s still disappointing.” 
Miller has averaged 2.2 points, 2.4 rebounds, and 1.15 steals in 13 games this season. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles advance in MIAA standings 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s squeaked out another win Saturday against MIAA opponent Olivet to stay in the running with the confer­ence’s finest. 
The Belles (9-5, 4-2 MIAA) started out slow to begin the game. Much of the first half was back and forth between the two teams. 
Neither team could retain a solid lead for a long period of time. It wasn’t until the Comets (4-12, 3-4) scored nine straight points to close out the first half that either team was able to establish a comfortable lead. Heading into halftime, the Belles faced a 31-22 deficit. 
Saint Mary’s took advantage of the Olivet defense in the sec­ond half by going on two major scoring runs. The first, a 15-0 scoring run, erased Olivet’s ten-point lead and gave Saint Mary’s a 43-38 lead. 
Another scoring run came quickly for the Belles, as they did not let up by outscoring the Comets 23-4. While the Belles built a comfortable 51-42 lead, the Comets continued to fight back. 
The Comets cut the lead down to one point several times, but the Belles managed to hang on. 
Free throws, especially in the second half, ended up saving the day for the Belles. Despite shooting 1-3 from the free throw line in the first half, Saint Mary’s shot 13-15 in the second half. 
Sophomore guard Maggie Ronan hit two clutch free throws near the end of the game to cushion Saint Mary’s lead to three points. 
Ronan led the Belles with a game-and career-high 18 points. Six of those points came from the free throw line as she shot a perfect 6-6. 
Senior forward Anna Kammrath recorded her sec­ond straight double-double with 12 points and 14 rebounds and sophomore forward Kelley Murphy added 12 points. 
The Belles retake third place in the conference as they pre­pare to play at fourth place Adrian on Tuesday night at 
7:30 p.m. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler1@nd.edu 

ing to change,” he said. “We got great shots. Those shots 
Tip-in 

will fall down. Nothing to be 
continued from page 24 upset about.” 

The Irish led by seven at 
The Irish (14-4, 3-2) lost the half, but the Bearcats to the Bearcats (12-6, 3-3) pulled back in the second on a last-second tip-in by half. Senior guard Ben Yancy Gates, who grabbed Hansbrough sank a jumper his own rebound and put it to tie the score at 58 with back with 2.4 seconds to go. 23 seconds left, but the Irish That play was indicative of couldn’t prevent Gates’ put-an overall rebounding prob-back. lem for the Irish, who were “It’s really hard to win on out-rebounded the road in 50-31. the Big East,” 
“They’re just Hansbrough big bodies, said. “We had tough on the “You just can’t dwell every chance inside,” junior to win and 
too much on 

forward Tim we just didn’t 
disappointment.” 

Ab romaitis quite finish said. “It like we showed in our Mike Brey should have.” reboundi ng Playing
Irish coach 

stats.” games in The Irish quick succes­
offense strug -sion, howev­gled as well. er, can help Senior forward Luke the team bounce back, Harangody made just 5-of-something Brey said he 20 field goal attempts and talked to the team about the Irish made only 47.4 after the loss to Connecticut. percent of their foul shots. “I think we’ll be excited to 
Senior guard Tory Jackson be back home,” Brey said. said the offense would “You just can’t dwell too rebound because the shot much on disappointment.” selection was good. The home court will help 
“Offensively, there’s noth-the team get energized, as it has in recent years. 
“I heard one of the players before a couple weeks ago, just before we played, say, ‘Y’all are really good here,’” Jackson said. “Even to hear them say that, they ’ve already beat themselves.” 
The Orange squeaked out a 72 -71 win over No. 10 West Virginia Saturday but have played outstanding lately. Since a 10-point loss to St. John’s on Jan. 2, their only loss of the season, they have won four straight. 
Junior forward Wes Johnson leads Syracuse in scoring with 16.8 points per game, but Johnson has recently been suffering from the flu. Freshman guard Brandon Triche led the team with 16 points against West Virginia. 
Brey said he knows how good Syracuse in part because of the attention the game is attracting: 26 
p r o f r e s s i o n a l  s c o u t s  w i l l  
attend.  
“ We ’ v e  h a d  m o r e  N B A  

people come to this game than in our history,” he said. “That must mean they’ ve got a lot of pros.” 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 

Freshmen succeed despite losses 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
Although the Belles came out of this weekend with two losses, some individuals enjoyed success. While the team missed sophomore Audrey Dalrymple, who is studying abroad, and senior Meredith Lierz, who was out with a knee injury, the fresh­man class stepped up to take the lead in numerous events. 
“Even though we did not win this weekend as a team, we succeeded every time one of us hit the water and put forth a great race,” freshman Katie Griffin said. 
Friday night the Belles lost 124-116 to No. 18 Hope, but still had some top individual finishers. Prior to the meets, Belles coach Alicia Dombkowski said she had no doubts in regards to her freshmen ladies, and they cer­tainly did not let her down. 

Griffin began the weekend with a time of 1:02.27 for the 100-yard backstroke, record­ing the third-fastest time in this event in team history. Griffin also took second in the 100-yard butterfly with a time of 1:02.07. 
“Swimming is often per­ceived as an individual sport, but fast swimming is only pos­sible through the support of a team. This weekend I would-n’t have accomplished what I did without being pushed to be better by my teammates every day during practice,” Griffin said. 
Among these teammates are sophomore Megan Price, who finished second at the Hope meet in the 50-yard freestyle with a time of 27.96, and freshman Ellie Watson, who finished second in the 500­yard freestyle. 
Saturday afternoon the Belles lost 129-100 to Olivet, but once again had several strong individual finishes. Griffin shined again, finishing first in the 200-yard freestyle with a time of 2:02.49. 
The team took first, second and third in the 200-yard backstroke, led by freshman Caila Poythress and closely followed by freshman Emily Pearl and senior Sara Niemann. Freshman Genevieve Spittler finished first in the 200-yard butterfly with a time of 2:21.85. Watson once again performed well, finishing second in both the 500-and 1000-yard freestyle. 
The girls next compete Friday against Albion at 7 
p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center at Notre Dame. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
NBA 

Anthony’s 37 lead Nuggets 
Associated Press 
DENVER — Carmelo Anthony scored 37 points and Chauncey Billups added 29 in the Denver Nuggets’ 119-112 win over Utah that snapped a four-game winning streak by the Jazz on Sunday night. 
Ty Lawson returned to Denver’s rotation after missing four games with a sprained ankle and helped steady a sometimes erratic offense, scoring 11 points and dishing out an assist. 
Nene Hilario added 18 points for the Nuggets, whose win on this January night could mean a lot come April. 
Denver improved to 3-0 against Utah, winning the sea­son series, which could prove crucial for playoff seeding should these teams end up with the same record in the tight Western Conference. 

Utah Jazz head coach Jerry Sloan, center, and assistant coach Phil Johnson, right, argue with referees for a call while facing the Denver Nuggets in the first quarter of an NBA basketball game in Denver on Sunday, Jan. 17, 2010. 
Point guard Deron Williams (sprained wrist) and forward Andrei Kirilenko (hyperextend­ed knee) were both in Utah’s starting lineup despite playing the night before in a 112-95 win over Milwaukee in Salt Lake City. Williams led the Jazz with 23 points but Kirilenko scored just seven. 
Kyle Korver had 19, Carlos Boozer 18 and Paul Millsap 17 for the Jazz. 
Although Utah’s lone lead came at 7-6, this game was contested until the final minute. 
The Nuggets jumped out to a 17-point lead in the second quarter but Utah kept it inter­esting by closing with a 12-2 run and went into halftime down 60-53. Kirilenko opened the third quarter with a bucket to make it a five-point game, but the Nuggets responded with a 10-0 run, sparked by Anthony, to grab a 70-55 lead. 
Once again, the Jazz didn’t go down quietly. They used a 13-2 run to pull to 85-81 heading into the fourth quarter, and Mehmet Okur’s bucket cut Denver’s lead to 85-83. 

Monday, January 18, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Monday, January 18, 2010 page 24 
ND SOCCER 

Three men, one woman selected in professional draft 
By DOUGLAS FARMER and 
LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writers 
Three Notre Dame men were selected in the Major League Soccer SuperDraft Thursday and one Irish woman was selected in the Women’s Professional Soccer draft on Friday. Both drafts were held in Philadelphia. 
Forward Bright Dike was drafted in the first round by the Columbus Crew with the 12th overall selection. Midfielder Michael Thomas and left back Justin Morrow were both chosen in the sec­ond round by the San Jose Earthquakes. Thomas was the 19th overall pick and Morrow the 28th overall pick. 
“It’s everybody’s dream to play in the MLS when you’re younger, and now it’s a reali­ty,” Thomas, a two-time cap­tain for the Irish, said. 
This was just the second draft in the program’s histo­ry in which three men were selected. It also happened in 2005. 
“I thought there was a good chance they ’d get selected, ” men ’s coach Bobby Clark said. “But to get three is pretty impressive. I’m happy for them and the program.” 
Dike, the 2009 Big East Offensive Player of the Year, led the Irish in goals (11) and points (26) as a fifth-year senior in the 2009 sea­son. In his college career, he was a two-time first -team all-Big East selection and a two -time all -region selec ­tion. In his career he scored 27 goals and had 12 assists. 
Thomas, who started 81 of 83 career matches with the Irish, led the team in assists in 2009 with six and also scored six goals. HE was also a two-time all -region selection and earned first-team all-Big East honors in 2009. In 2008, he was a sec­
ond -team all -conference selection. 
Morrow, also a team cap­tain in 2009, notched two goals and one assist in his first year as a defender after playing midfielder earlier in his career. He earned second team all-Big East honors. He played in 89 games through­out his career, staring 64 of 
see DRAFT/page 21 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
A Higher Standard 
No. 1 UConn hands Irish frst loss of season 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
No. 1 Connecticut has made a habit of making top-10 teams look overmatched. 
On Saturday night, No. 3 Notre Dame was just its latest victim. 
The Irish (15-1, 2-1 Big East) fell to the Huskies (17-0, 5-0) in a 70-46 decision Saturday at Gampel Pavilion in Storrs, Conn. The game marked Notre Dame’s first loss of the 2009­2010 season as well as Connecticut’s 56th straight vic­tory. 
The Huskies have played 10 games against top-10 oppo­nents during its win streak and has won those games by an average of almost 27 points. This season, the team’s aver­age margin of victory is 38 points. 

“We were expecting them to GRACE KENESEY/The Observer 
Junior forward Becca Bruszewski faces off with a defender during Notre Dame’s 88-47 win over see UCONN/page 22 Valparaiso on Dec. 12. The Irish suffered their frst loss of the season at Connecticut Saturday. 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Squad falls at last second 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
When the Irish returned to South Bend following their 60 -58 loss to Cincinnati Saturday, Mike Brey tore up the stat sheet in front of them. 
“I said, ‘We made a run at it, ’” the Irish coach said. “’Yeah, there’s some things we could have done better. I don’t want anyone dwelling 
on things that they didn’t do.” 
They can ’t afford to, because No. 5 Syracuse comes to town tonight. Brey said he thinks the Orange (17-1, 4-1 Big East) are the best team in the country. 
see TIP-IN/page 22 


ND TRACK & FIELD 
Marks set at Indoor ND opener 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish went into Friday’s Notre Dame Indoor Opener at the Loftus Sports Center look­ing to find out what type of shape the athletes were in and how the past semester’s condi­tioning and training had bene­fitted them. 
Irish coach Joe Piane said that the approach was simply to “find out where [the team is] at in terms of condition­ing.” 
From the results, it appears the effort was not put forth in vain. 
The meet allowed the Irish to see where different athletes are and how well prepared they will be for upcoming Big East meets. 
Against DePaul, Loyola and the women’s squad from 
see OPENER/page 20 
HOCKEY 

Comebacks mark win, tie with No. 6 Spartans 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 

Twice this weekend Notre Dame faced multiple goal deficits against No. 6 Michigan State. Instead of essentially throwing the towel in on the season, the Irish fought back in both games to win 5-2 Friday at home and tie the Spartans 4­4 Saturday on the road. 
“I give our kids credit both nights,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “We could have put our heads down and given up playing for our­selves, but we came out and played hard. … To come out with four points against a top-10 team is pretty good.” 
The four points moved Notre Dame (10-10-6, 6-7-5­2 CCHA) from a three-way tie for seventh place to a two-way tie for sixth in the CCHA standings. The Irish sit only five points out of fourth place in the confer­ence. 
Even though Notre Dame managed 19 shots on goal in the first period Friday, Michigan State led 2-0 after 
only four minutes had passed in the second period. Three minutes later an Irish shot finally found the back of the net when freshman Nick Larson scored off of an assist 
see PALMIERI/page 20 






