the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


GradsworktoexpandimpactofHaitidocumentary 
Former students try to raise money after Jan. 12 earthquake, form business operating out of Innovation Park 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Notre Dame graduate Justin Brandon can trace the inspira­tion for his work on a 2006 documentary about a rural Haitian town to a summer spent doing service through the Center for Social Concerns. 
Now, Brandon and two friends have taken their proj­ect back to Notre Dame through the use of Innovation Park, a technology park launched by the University that opened this fall. 
Brandon, along with 2005 graduates Brian McElroy and Daniel Schnorr, filmed, direct­ed and produced the docu­mentary, “The Road to Fondwa.” It chronicles the Haitian people’s quest for development of the small rural town of Fondwa, Haiti. 
“The film is not your stan­dard guilt trip, tear jerking movie that tries to make audi­ence feel sorry. Fondwa has a hopeful story,” he said. 
Brandon said he, McElroy and Schnorr wanted to expand the impact of the documentary 
— especially in light of the Jan. 12 earthquake — so they formed a business that now 
operates out of Innovation Park. 
“Once earthquake hit, every­thing changed,” Brandon said. 



AtheistandCatholic to debate religion 

Alumni launchonlinefaith program 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 

In an effort to involve the entire Notre Dame community in the faith mission of the University, the Alumni Association has launched an online program they hope will reach out to Notre Dame family members that are no longer on campus, Alumni Association members said. 
“Tender, Strong and True: Living the Gospel Daily” is a monthly online program that fea­tures live roundtable discussions with two panelists and a moder­ator. The participants talk about current issues and how faith and spirituality should play a role in how these questions are approached. 
“The purpose of the program is to explore real challenges we face in life through a lens of faith,” Kathy Sullivan, the Alumni Association’s senior director of spirituality and serv­ice and founder of the program said. “We approach relevant issues as being infused with the wisdom and presence of Gospel values.” 
Sullivan said the program is unique in that most of the ques­tions on the show are submitted by the viewers in real time through social networking ven­ues such as Facebook and Twitter. 
“We wanted a technology that would enable people to partici­pate with the questions in the program,” Sullivan said. “We wanted to create an online com­munity of learners.” 
Monsignor Michael Heintz, who served as moderator for two editions of the program, said he thinks the series serves a greater 
see ALUMNI/page 4 



Schmidt receives local recognition 
By AMANDA GRAY 
Assistant News Editor 

Student body president Grant Schmidt received local recognition at a recent awards ceremony with the South Bend Police Department (SBPD). 
“Grant has made it a part of his platform to really work close with the community and make sure that if there’s an opportunity to enhance rela­tions between the students and the community that we do so,” Vice President of Public Affairs Tim Sexton said of Schmidt’s Special Recognition Award. “He’s been very successful with doing that.” 
The eighth annual awards ceremony was held March 14 at the Ivy Tech Cyber Café and honored 75 police officers and civilians, the South Bend Tribune reported. 
“He’s worked very hard regarding off-campus safety. 

He’s worked very hard with done an awful lot that the Transpo and extending the community saw and wanted to hours that Transpo runs on thank him for all his hard Friday and Saturday nights for work.” getting students back and Denise Baron, Community forth from downtown South Bend,” Sexton said. “He’s just see SCHMIDT/page 4 


By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Notre Dame will host a public debate on April 7 between famed atheist Christopher Hitchens and Catholic apologetic Dinesh D’Souza. 
More than 10 departments 
on campus, including the College of Arts and Letters and the Student Union Board, will sponsor the event, “Is Religion the Problem?” It will be held at 7:30 p.m. at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Students should expect a heated debate, as D’Souza has described atheism as “the opiate of the morally corrupt” and Hitchens has 
c i t e d  C h r i s t i a n i t y  a s  “ a  
wicked cult.”  
A c c o r d i n g  t o  a  p r e s s  

release, the conversation will focus on the arguments for and against organized reli­gion and its impact on past and future generations. 
Sophomore Malcolm Phelan, one of the event organizers along with fellow sophomore Daniel O’Duffy, Dean of the College of Arts and Letters Joseph Stanfiel and Professor Micheal Rea from the Center for the Philosophy of Religion, said one of the main reasons for putting the event together was to challenge current stu­dents beliefs. 
“We are trying to get stu­dents to think about things that they take for granted for most of their lives,” he said. “These questions lead to thought and conversation within a community, chal­lenging positions and enrich­ing beliefs.” 
see DEBATE/page 6 
“We needed to have a strategy to scale up the efforts of the film distribution and that’s where Innovation Park came in.” 
As a student, Brandon, a graduate of the class of 2004, spent a summer in Ghana par­ticipating in an International Summer Service Learning Project (ISSLP). Through this project, he met McElroy and Schnorr. Schnorr had spent the summer in Ecuador and McElroy, Fondwa, Haiti. 
“We all met through our ISSLPs, and we came up with the idea to shoot a documen­tary in Haiti,” Brandon said. 
see PARK/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Robot football game to be held page 3  Oscar fashion page 10  Men’s basketball preview page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Thursday, March 18, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Beginning of madness 
I was talking to my friend JP after we got back from break, and in the process of our conversation he revealed that he thought yesterday was the best day of the year — even better than Christmas or the day we beat USC (soon to be a yearly occurrence), and he’s right, except for the USC thing. Why, you may ask? It’s certainly not because of the post-St. Paddy’s Day hangover you’re undoubtedly nurs-Allan Joseph ing as you read this. St. Patrick’s Day just Sports happens to conve-Production niently fall this year Editor as a 24-hour mid­week pregame for today, when the world’s greatest sports spectacle tips off at 12:20 p.m. 

Yep, you got it. I’m talking about the NCAA men’s basketball tournament. March Madness simply has everything that a sports fan could want. First, it’s a full three weeks of almost constant action. Today alone there are 16 games 
— and then 16 tomorrow. You can turn on CBS at noon to catch the important bits of the pregame show and watch the same channel and be constantly enter­tained for 12 straight hours, and then do the same thing tomorrow. For three weeks, there will be one constantly developing storyline after another. They’ll all be interesting, too. 
Second, no matter who you are, you’ve got some sort of rooting interest in the tournament. In addition to rooting for Luke Harangody & Co., there’s prob­ably at least one of the other 63 teams that is your state university, your mom’s alma mater, or one that’s got a cool name (Wofford, I’m looking at you). Plus, you can root for the Cinderella team or Kentucky, if only to see Ashley Judd. The point is, you always care. 
Third, the bracket is the perfect size 
— there’s an element of mystery as to who will make the field, there are enough games for some classic upsets, and yet one of the best teams almost always comes out on top. Plus, the time-honored tradition of filling out brackets involves even the casual fan in a friendly competition that’s inevitably won by someone who has no clue what they’re doing. And if you want bragging rights over smug Observer sportswriters like me, head on over to Facebook and enter your bracket against ours. 
Look, I know some people think the Super Bowl, the World Cup or the Olympics are more exciting. But let’s be honest. The Super Bowl lasts three hours, not three weeks. The World Cup and Olympics are exciting, but you have to wait four years every time. And if you think people care more about their countries more than their college bas­ketball teams, I point to the Cameron Crazies and rest my case. 
So go turn on your TV at 12:20 p.m. Have a copy of your bracket in your right hand, and your beverage of choice in your left. Root for the upset, root for the favorite, root for the Irish or root for (ugh) Duke. But most of all, enjoy the next three weeks — because there’s simply nothing else like them. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a production error, Brandy Mader was misidentified as a sophomore in the Question of the Day segment. Brandy Mader is a senior. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW DID YOU C L BRATE SAINT PATRICK’S DAY? 





Elizabeth Flood  Ella Lozon  Katie Finley  Tim Ryan  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Lewis  Howard  PW  Keenan  
“With sunshine  “I ate Lucky  “Playing  “Playing Irish  
and smiling  Charms all day  football on the  music and  
Irish eyes.”  long.”  quad and  drinking Irish  
drinking apple  beverages.”  

cider.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

TOM LA/The Observer Students John Wachowicz, left, Andrew Brinkerhoff, center and Tim Ryan perform traditional Irish music on Fieldhouse Mall Wednesday in celebration of St. Patrick’s Day. 
OFFBEAT 

Woman faces charges after sending text to police 
ALTUS, Okla. — A 
M a n g u m  w o m a n  h a s  
b e e n  a r r e s t e d  f o r  
allegedly sending  a  text  

message about illegal drugs to a drug task force agent. A warrant was issued for the woman for possession of a controlled substance and unlawful possession of a controlled drug with the intent to distribute. A Jackson County jailer said Wednesday the woman wasn’t in custody. 
Authorities said District III Drug Task Force agent Chris Counts received a text message that said, “if you want a hit of this stuff before it is all gone, you better get over here.” 
Counts sent a message asking for an address and determined that the suspect lived there. Officers said she thought she sent the message to a friend. 
Man poses as policeman, pulls over off-duty officer 
PHOENIX — An Arizona man accused admonishing motorists of traffic laws while posing as a police officer apparently picked the wrong driver to pull over. 
A Maricopa County jury on Tuesday found 62-year­old David Word guilty of impersonating a lawman for pulling over an off-duty police officer. Sentencing is set for May 5. 
Avondale police officer Matt Lydic says he was on his way to work in his per­sonal vehicle last May when Word pulled him over while driving a black Ford Crown Victoria equipped with lights and a siren. Lydic says Word told him to slow down, then drove away. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Friday Saturday 

IN BRIEF 
An exhibition titled “All Art is Propaganda” will be held at 8 a.m. today in room 102 in the Hesburgh Library Special Collections. 
“Caroline Chiu: Polaroids as Chinese Ink Painting,” will be held at 10 a.m. today. The exhibit will be on display in the Milly and Fritz Kaeser Mestrovic Studio Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art. 
An exhibit titled “Yin Yu Tang: A Chinese Home” will be held at 10 a.m. today in the Scholz Family Works on Paper Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art. 
The Distinguished Speaker Series on Social Networks will offere a lecture titled “Making Sense of Politics: ARelational Approach to Public Opinion” will be held at 4 p.m. today in 210 to 214 McKenna Hall. 
“Torture, Suicide and Detremnato: The Problem with Making Law More Precise” will begin at 4 p.m. today in 1140 Eck Hall of Law. 
Alsaidar MacIntyre will give a lecture titled “Happines and Goodness.” The lecture will begin at 5 p.m. today in 145 Spes Unica Hall at Saint Mary’s College. 
“Picturing Rachmainoff: Music, Poetry and Painting in Concert” will be held at 7 p.m. today in Carey Auditorium in the Hesburgh Library. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Sunday Monday 


Atlanta 63 / 42 Boston 58 / 41 Chicago 60 / 40 Denver 67 / 35 Houston 69 / 47 Los Angeles 66 / 55 Minneapolis 53 / 39 New York 64 / 49 Philadelphia 65 / 41 Phoenix 83 /59 Seattle 56 / 38 St. Louis 63 / 42 Tampa 67 / 50 Washington 66 / 42 
Thursday, March 18, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Robotfootballgametobeheld 
By CAITLYN KALSCHEUR 
News Writer 
This year’s Blue and Gold football game weekend will have more than just one foot­ball game for some students. The Engineering Department will host its second annual Collegiate Mechatronic Football Competition at Stepan Center on April 23. 
Jim Schmiedeler, associate professor of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering, said the competition is a one-hour football game between robots built by students. 
Schmeideler said the com­petition is part of a 13-week effort to design, build, test and demonstrate the skills of the robots. 
“The students have done a terrific job. They have pro­gressed with the help of input from last year’s competition,” Schmeideler said. 
This is the program’s sec­ond official year of competi­tion. 
“Last year’s game had an exciting finish,” Schmiedeler said. “The Blue team fumbled on a drive to the end zone with no time left that would have won them the game. The fans and students were jump­ing and cheering. It was an intense game.” 
While the outcome of the game is important for the tro­phy, Schmeideler said the grade students receive is based on a test that takes place the week before. The robots go through a series of tests to evaluate their abilities from controllability to kicking and throwing accuracy. 
The students officially began the design portion of the project in January and started manufacturing and testing their robots after Spring Break, Schmiedeler said. 
“The students have been driving prototype robots around the halls of Fitzpatrick for a while now, and they’ve been outside kicking field goals and throw­ing passes,” Schmiedeler said. 
The event was started by a Notre Dame alumnus in honor of his son, Brian Hederman, who was a stu ­dent in the Engi neering Department. Hederman, who passed away before he gradu­ated, came up with the idea of a football -playing robot. 
“Alumni from the Department were interested in sponsoring the version of football in which each team has eight players, and they play on a smaller field with a souvenir-sized football. A completed pass is the quarterback throwing the ball and hitting the receiver, who doesn’t necessarily have to catch the ball to complete the pass. 
“The robots have tackle sensors that light up to indi­cate a tackle,” Schmiedeler said. “Essentially it shows how hard one robot slams into another.” 
Students control the robots from the sidelines, and two students are allowed on the 

“The students have done a terrifc job. They have progressed with the help of input from the last year’s competition.” 
Jim Schmiedeler Associate Professor Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering 
field to con ­trol the offense. Also 
on the field are three ref­erees from RecSports. 
Motorola sponsors the event, Schmiedeler said. 
“We’ve invit­ed faculty and students from other univer­sities to pro­mote the idea 
of a possible 

event,” league someday,” Schmeidler 

CAT program assists, supportsat-riskchildren 
Special to The Observer 
When not busy with the usual classes and homework, about 10 percent of the College’s student body take time out of their day to par­ticipate in the College Academy of Tutoring (CAT) Program. The CAT Program links students to at-risk chil­dren in the South Bend com­munity and, according to CAT director Olivia Critchlow, “allows them to be positive, she said. 
For many children, the CAT Program is the only tutoring program offered in their school. Saint Mary’s students travel to Coquillard Primary Center, Warren Primary Center, the St. Joseph County Public Library and Lincoln Primary Center. Participants in the after-school programs range from third-and fourth-graders to children with dis­abilities and English as a Second Language students. 
supportive fig- CAT volunteers  
ures in the lives of those who  “For many, it can be  provide help with mathemat­ 
need it most.”  relaxing to spend  ics, writing,  
S o p h o m o r e political science major Anabel Castaneda has  time off campus in a productive environment, where  reading com-prehension and assistance with homework.  
been working with the CAT program for  they are helping others.”  Students gain a lot of benefi­cial experience  
two years.  from participat­ 
“When I see  Olivia Critchlow  ing in the CAT  
that a child  Director  P r o g r a m .  
that I have been working  CAT  C r i t c h l o w explains, “For  
with excel it  many, it can be  

makes me feel so wonderful because I know how amazing these children are. Sometimes the child might not feel that he or she is smart enough and does not have the confi­dence to try new things. When I am able to show them that they can do it, they just keep going. The CAT program changes the children's lives,” relaxing to spend time off campus in a productive envi­ronment, where they are helping others. For many other students, volunteering with CAT is a great way to give back to those in need in the community while also feeling that they are making a positive difference in the world.” 
Schmiedeler said. “They want to evaluate the success of the competition here at Notre Dame and investigate the pos­sibilities of intercollegiate competition.” 
The robots play an adapted 
said. “We would love to have Notre Dame earn a national title in Collegiate Mechatronic Football.” 

Contact Caitlyn Kalscheur at ckalsche@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 18, 2010 

Park 
continued from page 1 
“We raised a little money, went down and didn’t know what we were doing. None of us took any film classes at Notre Dame.” 
But the Notre Dame gradu­ates succeeded in making the film, and they now travel, holding screenings of the doc­umentary to showcase the development and culture of Fondwa. 
The documentary focuses on the development of Fondwa, a rural town of about 8,000. The people work to spur growth by building a road through the town then expanding the University of Fondwa, which was established in 2004. 
“[The university] was an important first step for devel­opment of the town,” Brandon said. “There are about 20 kids in each class, and they’ve graduated one class so far. In the end of the film, we talk about the university as the crown jewel of community.” 
But Brandon said the recent earthquake devastated the town, and pushed him, McElroy and Schnorr to extend the reach of the docu­mentary and raise money for relief. 
“All the buildings in Fondwa were destroyed, including peo­ple’s houses. The university was flattened,” Brandon said. “But people are working to raise money to rebuild it big­ger and better.” 
After the earthquake, 


Alumni 
continued from page 1 
purpose for the Notre Dame com­munity. 
“This series is a way of utilizing technology to help members of the 
Notre Dame fami­ly stay connect­ed,” he said. “We have a spiritual responsibility to the Notre Dame community and this program allows them to stay connected to that spiritual aspect.” 
Sullivan said the idea for the program came from another 
ning got underway in September. The Alumni Association set up an advisory group that included Sullivan, Chair of the Theology Department John Cavadini and Director of Campus Ministry Fr. Richard Warner. The pilot episode aired Feb. 7, featuring a discus­sion on prayer and the Lenten season, attracting 70 viewers to the live viewing and 238 watched Brandon said they decided to release the film for free view­ing on YouTube to draw atten­tion to the town and the uni­versity. 
“The whole world was able to see the negativity, the really dismal images being shown on TV. We wanted to show a more hopeful message online,” he said. 
Brandon said the business they run out of Innovation Park is not for profit. 
“We are covering our own costs, gas costs and making the DVDs, but after that, we are using any money that comes in to keep the business going, promoting the film and the Web site,” he said. “Anything that’s left over, we are donating directly to Fondwa.” 
Brandon said he and the other filmmakers are looking for groups and students who want to do screenings of the documentary in order to raise awareness and funds for the relief effort. 
“We have raised a few thou­sand,” he said. “It isn’t all that much, but in the broader scene, we released the film for free and told anyone that if they want a screening of film, they can do that for free except that they had to buy the DVD.” 
Brandon said Innovation Park is an ideal workspace for promoting the documentary. 
“It’s important for me to have a place to come and work around other people that think similar way that I’m thinking,” he said. “It’s an office space but it’s more than 

“We have a spiritual “We meet responsibility to before so we have an idea of where 
the Notre Dame 
we want to go,” 

community and this 
he said. “But 

program allows them there’s not a script; we just try 
to stay connected to 
and engage in 

that spiritual aspect.” 
conversation.” 

Sullivan said Michael Heintz the response she has had from 
Monsignor 
viewers has been one of gratitude the video after the viewing. The most recent edition, which aired on March 14 and featured the topic of job loss, has had over 700 views on the Alumni Association’s Web site. 
Heintz said each show has only minimal planning with most of the content being left up to the ques­
tions submitted by 
viewers. 

throughout our whole life and “I began to ask applying a faith perspective as an 
what we could do to 
overlay to the 

reach people and 
challenges of bring faith needs life.” Sullivan and 
to our alumni.” 
Heintz both hope the series contin-

Kathy Sullivan 
ues to be a serv­chair ice not only to Theology Department Notre Dame 
alumni, but to the 
Notre Dame com­munity as a whole. 
“A life of faith for a member of the Notre Dame family doesn’t stop at graduation,” Heintz said. “This series will continue to pro­vide a forum for the University to speak to the community beyond campus.” 


Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
that.” 
Brandon said he uses the Greenhouse facility in the park, and has networking and mentoring opportunities from people also using the Greenhouse that have experi­ence launching a business. 
His company was an attrac­tive option for Innovation Park as well, Brandon said. 
“Our business is different from the other projects they take on. A lot are along lines of physical sciences,” he said. “Ours is quite different and it’s a good perspective to bring into the park because it’s a finished product that already has a revenue stream.” 
Many of the other businesses launching out of Innovation Park are still in the early stages of establishment, Brandon said. 
“Innovation Park wishes to help Road to Fondwa, LLC, find ways to market this pow­erful documentary as a tool to help raise additional funds for critical earthquake relief oper­ations,” David Brenner, presi­dent and CEO of Innovation Park said of the business in a press release. 
Brandon said he hopes the business will help with the Haitian relief effort, but also draw attention to the positive side of Haiti. 
“It’s much more of an uplift­ing story, but not contrived,” he said. “People there have a hopeful spirit and have accom­plished a tremendous amount in past few decades.” 


Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
Relations Committee chair of Student Senate, said the com­munity has been appreciative of Schmidt’s work for a long time. 
“This might be his first for­mal recognition, but he’s defi­nitely been informally recog­
nized,” Baron  between stu­ 
said. Schmidt said he hopes this  “It was a great recognition to  dents and per­manent resi­dents in the  
will help foster good relations between the University and  represent the fact that I think we’ve come a long way  community. “For the resi­dents that are permanent, it’s  
the greater  in regards to the  an ongoing,  
community. “This was a recognition by  relation between students and the city  c o n s i s t e n t attempt to build relation- 
the police  of South Bend, and I  ships with stu­ 
department,” Schmidt said. “We’ve met  hope that relation continues.”  dents living by them, make them aware of  
with [members  what it means  
of the South  Grant Schmidt  to be a good  
Bend Police D e p a r t m e n t ]  student body president  neighbor,” he said. “Grant  
and had con­ [Schmidt] and  

versations about safety issues and general good neighbor relations. It was a great recog­nition to represent the fact that I think we’ve come a long way in regards to the relation between students and the city of South Bend, and I hope that relation continues.” 
Schmidt’s involvement with the Campus Community Advisory Council shows his dedication to community rela­tions, Sexton said. 
“You have representatives his team from student govern­ment have just done a great job of moving that in a positive fashion.” 
Schmidt said the recognition is proof that relations have already starting to improve. 
“That award is representa­tive of the fact that students in general are having better rela­tions with their neighbors and with the city,” Schmidt said. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


online spiritual venture, the pray.nd.edu Web site she helped to create. Sullivan said in looking at prayer requests that were sub­mitted to the site by alumni and others, she noticed a pattern of concerns over trying to figure out 
how to move for­ward in faith life during hard times. 
“I began to ask what we could do to reach people and bring faith needs to our alumni,” she said. “Then the idea for ‘Tender, Strong and True’ began to form.” 
The actual plan-and appreciation. She said she thinks the series touches people on a unique level. 
“This isn’t intended to be an Oprah show or a psychology show,” she said. “It’s an effort to explore how we live our faith coming to these [community] meetings, including Grant and Denise Baron,” Sexton said. “When it comes to safety and crime prevention in the neigh­borhood, the challenge that we have is a lot of students liv­ing in the Northeast Neighborhood for a year or two, then somebody new comes in.” 
Sexton said he would like to see improved relationships 




World & Nation 
Thursday, March 18, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


Security forces shoot three 
KAMPALA, Uganda — Ugandan security forces fatally shot three people in the capital Wednesday during clashes with rioters angry after the tombs of five traditional kings were destroyed overnight by fire, a tribal govern­ment official said. 
Lubega Segona, minister of information for the Buganda kingdom, said three people were killed and several wounded by mem­bers of the presidential guard. He said the guards shot at angry members of the tradi­tional kingdom who had tried to stop Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni from visiting the tombs. 
“Those killed were among a crowd which was stopping the guards to enter where the tombs are located,” Segona said. “The guards responded by opening fire and killing three people and injuring several.” 

Thai protestors remain in Bangkok 
BANGKOK — Anti-government demonstra­tors vowed Wednesday to extend their protest in the Thai capital indefinitely, after taking their attention-grabbing tactic of pouring bot­tles of their own blood to the prime minister’s home. 
Leaders of the Red Shirt protesters, who want Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva to call new elections, said they would scale back the size of the demonstration they began Sunday in order to conserve energy and resources. 
The decision to stay encamped in the Thai capital is meant to keep up the pressure on Abhisit, who already has rejected several of the protesters’ deadlines to dissolve Parliament. 
NATIONAL NEWS 


Group protests textbooks on Islam 
PHILADELPHIA — A series of children’s textbooks on Islam contains misleading and inflammatory rhetoric about the religion, inaccurately portraying its followers as inherently violent and deserving of suspi­cion, according to a Muslim civil liberties group. 
The Pennsylvania chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations began what it calls a public awareness campaign Wednesday against the “World of Islam” books by Mason Crest Publishing. 
“This is not about Muslims being offend­ed,” Moein Khawaja, the chapter’s civil rights director, said at a news conference. “Filled with incorrect information and deception, these books are contrary to the education mission of schools and libraries.” 
It was not immediately clear where the series is being used, but Khawaja said com­plaints from council chapters across the country lead him to believe it is on book­shelves in about two dozen states. 

Sweat lodge deaths ruled heatstroke 
CAMP VERDE, Ariz.— Two people who were overcome in an Arizona sweat lodge ceremony last year were unconscious when emergency crews arrived, and an autopsy concluded they died of heat stroke upon arrival at a hospital. 
Autopsy reports released Tuesday show multi-system organ failure was the cause of death for a third person attending the October ceremony led by motivational speaker James Arthur Ray. 
Ray has pleaded not guilty to three counts of manslaughter in their deaths and is free on bond. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Governor Daniels signs ethics bill 
INDIANAPOLIS — Indiana Gov. Mitch Daniels has signed into law a bill tightening ethics and lobbying rules for lawmakers and the executive branch. 
The bill, one of 23 Daniels signed Wednesday, bars lawmakers from becoming lobbyists for one year after they leave the General Assembly and requires lobbyists to report gifts worth $50 or more. It also bars incumbents or candidates for statewide office from raising campaign funds during budget-writing legislative sessions. 
Some provisions take effect July 1. Others do so later. 
AFGHANISTAN 


Taliban launches new operation 
Insurgents conduct a fear and intimidation campaign in southern Afghan base 
Associated Press 

MARJAH — A month after losing control of their southern base in Marjah, the Taliban have begun to fight back, launching a campaign of assassination and intimidation to fright­en people from supporting the U.S. and its Afghan allies. 
At least one alleged gov­ernment sympathizer has been beheaded. There are rumors that others have been killed. Afghans in the town that U.S., Afghan and NATO troops captured in a three-week assault that began Feb. 13 awake to letters posted on their doors warning against helping the troops. 
Winning public support in this former Taliban stronghold in Helmand province 360 miles south­west of Kabul is consid­ered essential to prevent­ing insurgents from returning. 
The Marjah operation will serve as a model for campaigns elsewhere, including one expected by summer to secure villages around Kandahar, the Taliban’s spiritual birth­place and the largest city in the south. 
Military commanders believe the Taliban cam­paign is achieving some success because of ques­tions raised at town meet­ings: Do the U.S. forces want to shut down the mosques and ban prayer? Will they will use lookout posts on their bases to ogle women? Are they going to take farmers’ land away? 
“Dislocating the insur­gents physically was easy. Dislocating them socially 
— proving that we’re here to stay and to help — is a lot harder,” said Lt. Col. Jeff Rule, the head of operations for Marines in Helmand. 
There are no firm fig­ures on how many Taliban are left in Marjah. Marine and Afghan military offi­cials say they believe most of those still here are from the area and the foreign fighters have fled. 

Regardless of Taliban numbers, their influence is still felt. 
New cell phone towers brought phone service to Marjah a little over a week ago. But the service does­n’t work at night because the Taliban threaten or bribe tower operators to shut off the network, pre­sumably to prevent people from alerting troops and police as they plant bombs after dark. 
Some of the workers on canal-clearing projects have been threatened or have been beaten up by insurgents. 
At least one canal work­er who received threats returned and said he will keep working despite the risk, said Maj. David Fennell, who oversees about 15 civil affairs troops working to win over the population. 
“That’s when you know that you fought the Taliban and you won,” Fennell said. “I tell my team time and time again: ‘What did we just do today? We hit the Taliban in the mouth.’” 
This is the struggle for Marjah now: winning peo­ple over with a job or a vaccination for a child. The victories are small because the Taliban already proved it can make good on its promises by enforcing harsh justice while in power. 
“My sense is that the Taliban will reinfiltrate in due course as the Afghan government fails to live up to the modest expectations NATO has of it,” says Mervyn Patterson, a for­mer U.N. political affairs expert in Afghanistan. “I do not think that the Taliban have been weak­ened in Helmand by the loss of Marjah. They have been having ups and downs, and this was a modest down, but not something that is signifi­cant, in and of itself. I expect they will gradually return to Marjah.” 
Many of the estimated 80,000 people here share the same fears, even though there are about 4,000 NATO and Afghan troops in and around Marjah, including two Marine battalions in the town. Some say they’re afraid to take money from the military because if the Taliban find them with the cash, they’ll be punished. 


Detroit schools slated to close in June 
Associated Press 

DETROIT — Doors are expected to shut on more than a quarter of Detroit’s 172 public schools in June as the district fights through steadily declining enrollment and a budget deficit of more than $219 million, an emergency financial manager said Wednesday. 
Three aging, traditional and under­populated high schools would be among the 44 closures. Another six schools are to be closed in June 2011, followed by seven more a year later, emergency financial manager Robert Bobb said. 
Detroit already closed 29 schools before the start of classes last fall and shuttered 35 buildings about three years ago. Parents like Jena Williams, 41, call it a worrisome trend. Her 5-year-old daughter’s school is on the June list. 
“I am not happy about it, but the population of the city is shrinking and the people who have the means are moving out,” Williams said after pick­ing up her daughter, Payton, from Bunche Elementary on Detroit’s east side. 
The closures are part of a $1 bil­lion, five-year plan to downsize a struggling district also is looking to improve education, test scores and student safety in a city whose popula­tion has declined with each passing decade. The 2010 U.S. Census is expected to show that far fewer than 900,000 people now live in Detroit. 
“You’ve got to give DPS a chance. You’ve got to give Detroit a chance. I’m trying to,” said Williams, an unemployed General Motors Co. con­tract worker. 
District data shows full-time, pre­kindergarten through 12th grade enrollment has decreased from about 164,500 in 2002-03 to 87,700 for the current school year. Enrollment is projected to dip to 56,500 in 2014­15. 
More than half the classroom seats in dozens of buildings are empty. 

page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 18, 2010 
them to put the debate together. 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
Professor Rea said he also feels a strong feature of the event is its present day value. “[The event is about] seri­
ous questions about the rationality of belief in God and about the role religion plays in contributing to the evils in this world,” Rea said. 
Phelan said what makes the event truly special is the quality of the participants in the conversation and debate. 
“Christopher Hitchens and Dinesh D’Souza are amongst the foremost public intellec­tuals in the world, and are two of the best known spokespersons for their respective positions,” he said. “They have both authored numerous books and have debated multiple times on these topics, drawing crowds 
of over 6,000 to similar events.” 
Phelan said the group of organizers drew inspiration from similar events, but the prestige of the participants was what helped convince 
“Daniel and I had always wanted to see one of these debates, and we thought ‘Why not have one here?’” Phelan said. “We’ve had dis­cussions of this type our ­selves, but it was another thing entirely to have two of the world’s best debaters bat­tle it out on a public stage.” 
Stanfiel said Hitchens in particular could prove to be a polarizing figure on the Notre Dame campus. 
“People might object to Hitchens, a self-proclaimed anti-theist being given a plat­form, but these are issues that are being debated in the larger culture,” he said. “What better venue for Notre Dame is there for the honest presentation of both sides of this controversy?” 
Tickets for the event will be available to students at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center ticket office beginning March 24. The event is free for Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross students. 
Contact Sam Stryker at stryke1@nd.edu 




ArchbishopRomerotobe commemorated at ND 
Special to The Observer 
The 2010 Romero Days, a series of events commemo­rating the 30th anniversary 
of the assassination of Salvadoran Archbishop Oscar Romero will be held at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame March 24 to 26 (Wed­nesday to Friday). 
Bishop Alvaro Ramazzini of San Marcos, Guatemala, will speak on the state of civil and human rights in his diocese on March 24 at 
12:30 p.m. in Room 1130 of the Eck Hall of Law. An internationally recognized human rights activist, Bishop Ramazzini has been an outspoken and frequently threatened advocate for the campesinos, immigrants and landless people of Guatemala. Also on March 24, he will preside and preach at Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 5:15 p.m. 
Ana Carrigan, journalist and author of the recent book “The Palace of Justice: A Colombian Tragedy,” will speak on her work and on social conditions in Colombia March 25 at 12:30 
p.m. in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Also on March 25, a new documentary film, “Monseñor: The Last Journey of Oscar Romero,” will be shown at 8 p.m. in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The film includes extracts from Archbishop Romero’s Sunday homilies and from his personal diary, and personal interviews of a cross section of Salvadorans: campesinos, guerrillas, soldiers, politi-cians, priests, nuns and cat­echists. Rev. Robert Pelton, 

C.S.C., director of Notre Dame ’s Latin American/North American Church Concerns (LANACC) will travel to El Salvador to introduce the film at its world premiere in the Cathedral of San Salvador on March 19. 
Archbishop Oscar Romero was assassinated by a right-wing death squad while pre­siding at Mass on March 24, 1980, in a hospital in San Salvador. His outspoken advocacy of human rights, his denunciations of U.S. military aid to El Salvador, his call for Salvadoran mili­tary personnel to disobey immoral orders, and his insistence that the Church be inseparable from the poor all made him a figure of some controversy before and after his death. 
Archbishop Romero has been officially recommended for canonization by the Catholic Church in El Salvador, and he already is widely venerated as a mar­tyr in his native country, throughout Latin America and in the United States. 
Romero Days is organized annually by LANACC, which seeks to interpret Latin American Catholicism to 
U.S. Catholics and others through films, publications and public events. 
The events of the 2010 Romero Days are co-spon­sored by LANACC and Notre Dame’s Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the Latin American Studies Program, the Bishop Shaheen Leadership Fund, the Center for Civil and Human Rights, the Center for Social Concerns, the Department of Theology, the Institute for Church Life, the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Campus Ministry, the Institute for Latino Studies and the Department of Film, Television and Theatre. 


The Observer 




Business
Thursday, March 18, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Wachovia settles laundering case 
MIAMI — Banking giant Wachovia Corp. will pay $160 million to settle a federal investiga­tion into laundering of illegal drug profits through Mexican exchange houses in the largest case of its kind ever brought against a 
U.S. bank, prosecutors said Wednesday. 
“This is historic,” acting U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Sloman said. “There is no other case like this one anywhere.” 
The probe, which began in 2005 when a Drug Enforcement Administration narcotics dog in Florida detected cocaine traces in an airplane, ultimately uncovered at least $110 million in drug profits laundered from Mexico through Wachovia. The total settlement includes forfeiture in that amount plus a $50 million fine. 
“DEA will follow drug money wherever it leads us,” said Mark R. Trouville, chief of the DEA’s Miami office. 

Nike profits grow as sales rise 
BEAVERTON, Ore. — Nike Inc. said Wednesday that stronger sales helped boost the athletic shoe and clothing company’s third-quarter profit. 
Nike reported after the market closed that it earned $496 million, or $1.01 per share, for the quarter. 
That’s more than double the $244 million, or 50 cents per share, it reported for the same period a year earlier. But the year-ago results included a $241 million charge related to the company’s Umbro subsidiary, which it had recently acquired. 
Excluding those charges, Nike’s profit grew a more modest 2 percent. 
Nike said its revenue grew 7 percent to $4.7 bil­lion, helped in part by foreign exchange rates. Revenue grew most in China and other emerging markets, and it fell in some parts of Europe and Japan. 
Nike’s key markets of Western Europe and the 
U.S showed modest single-digit revenue gains. 
CEO Mark Parker said the third quarter was great for the company, which is based in Beaverton, Ore., and demonstrated that the com­pany’s ability to connect with consumers can drive profitable growth. 
The results beat the average forecast of analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters for profit of 89 cents per share on revenue of $4.6 billion. Analyst expectations typically exclude one-time items. 


Jobs bill wins Senate’s approval 
New measure offers tax breaks for companies that hire unemployed workers 
Associated Press 

WA SHINGTON— Companies that hire unem­ployed workers will get a temporary payroll tax holi­day under a bill that easily won congressional approval Wednesday in what Democrats hope is just the first of several election-year measures aimed at boosting hiring. 
The 68-29 bipartisan vote in the Senate sent the legis­lation to the White House, where President Barack Obama was expected to sign it into law Thursday. Eleven Republicans voted for the legislation, an impressive tally considering the politically charged atmosphere on Capitol Hill. 
It was the first of several jobs bills promised by Democrats, though there’s plenty of skepticism that the measure will do much to actually create jobs. Optimistic estimates predict the tax break could gener­ate perhaps 250,000 jobs through the end of the year, but that would be just a tiny fraction of the 8.4 million jobs lost since the start of the recession. 
The measure is part of a campaign by Democrats to show that they are address­ing the nation’s unemploy­ment problem, but that ers stay on the job a full probably go to companies children as we add this debt message was overshadowed year. Taxpayers will have to that were likely to hire new to their backs.” by Congress’ feverish final reimburse Social Security workers anyway. In addition to the hiring push to pass health care for the lost revenue. “Until business picks up tax incentives and highway overhaul legislation by this “This is just the first, cer-for small business owners, funding, the bill extends a weekend. tainly not the last, piece of there’s not going to be a tax break for small busi­
“It is the first of what I legislation that we will put huge incentive to add new nesses buying new equip-hope will be a series of jobs forward in relation to jobs,” workers,” said Bill Rys of ment and modestly expands packages that help to con-said its sponsor, Sen. Chuck the National Federation of an initiative that helps state tinue to put people back to Schumer, D-N.Y. “If we Independent Business, and local governments work,” Obama said after don’t create jobs, the econo-which lobbies for small finance infrastructure proj­the vote. my will not move forward.” business. ects. 
The bill contains about It also extends highway The bill is financed in A far larger measure that $18 billion in tax breaks and mass transit programs part over the coming would extend health insur­and a $20 billion infusion of through the end of the year decade by cracking down ance subsidies and jobless cash into highway and tran-and pump in $20 billion in on offshore tax havens, checks for the unemployed sit programs. Among other time for the spring con-though it would add $13 is in the works but has hit things, it exempts business-struction season. That billion to the debt in the slow going. That measure es that hire people who money would make up for coming three years. has passed both House and have been unemployed for lower-than-expected gaso-“When are we going to Senate but is hung up as at least 60 days from pay-line tax revenues. stop spending money the rival chambers wrangle ing the 6.2 percent Social The measure is modest around here as if there’s no over how to partially Security payroll tax through compared with last year’s tomorrow?” said Sen. Judd finance the legislation, December and gives $862 billion economic stim-Gregg, R-N.H. “Because which also would extend a employers an additional ulus bill, and the bulk of the pretty soon there’s going to variety of tax breaks for $1,000 credit if new work-hiring tax breaks would be no tomorrow for our individuals and businesses. 


Stocks slowly climb to reach new highs 
weeks. Most of the increase has come was the Fed’s decision Tuesday to 
Associated Press 

from gains that don’t make headlines, hold its key lending rate at a record 
NEW YORK — The stock market like 45 points, or 10. low of essentially zero. A government has a new formula for success: a slow The gains could always unravel but report that prices at the wholesale and steady trek higher. it makes for a more sustainable climb level fell by the biggest amount in 
The Dow Jones industrial average when investors mostly nibble at seven months boosted investors’ rose 48 points Wednesday in its sev-stocks. belief that inflation is being con­enth straight advance to close at a “Boring is the new sexy,” said Neil tained. new high for 2010. The gain means Menard, principal at Steben & Co. in It’s clear from the market’s climb the Dow has joined the Standard & Rockville, Md. that investors are feeling more Poor’s 500 index and Nasdaq compos-The advance is occurring in part upbeat. Since Feb. 8, the Dow is up ite index in reaching the best levels because investors’ list of worries isn’t 8.3 percent. That’s a big gain that since 2008. growing. There are still big problems might ordinarily take a year to 
Stocks reached the new highs by like unemployment and government accomplish. But the Dow had slumped climbing almost in stealth mode. The deficits but they’re not new. And some 7.6 percent in the month before that, Dow is up 825 points in about five worries are easing. Greece is taking so a rebound isn’t surprising. weeks but the gains haven’t come in steps to tackle its debt problems, for What’s more important is the way the 100-point pops that were common example. There had been fear its the market is climbing: in almost a during much of the market’s climb in problems would spoil a global recov-stairstep pattern. The Dow hasn’t the past 12 months. There have only ery. swung by more than 100 points in 12 been a few of those big days in recent The catalyst for this latest increase of the past 14 trading days. 
page 8 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 18, 2010 


Calif. officer helps stop runaway Prius 


Associated Press 
EL CAJON, Calif. — A California Highway Patrol report released Wednesday said an officer saw brake lights flashing after arriving to help slow a speeding Toyota Prius on a Southern California freeway. 
The lights were on “for a peri­od of time and would turn off, indicating the driver was possi­bly pumping the brakes,” CHP Officer Todd Neibert wrote in his seven-page incident report. 
“I was within ¼ mile of the vehicle and could smell the heated brakes which indicated they had been used extensive­ly,” it states. 
The report offered some new details and dozens of photos about events that occurred after driver Jim Sikes called 911 on March 8 to say his gas pedal got stuck on a San Diego-area free­way. 
However, it did nothing to clarify the wildly divergent ver­sions of events from Sikes and Toyota Motor Corp. 
Neibert also wrote that a Border Patrol agent in an unmarked vehicle with emer­gency lights flashing was trying to help guide the Toyota to safe­ty. The report didn’t say how long the Border Patrol agent had been tracking the Prius in the Chevrolet Tahoe. 
“It was staying ahead of us and it was later determined that the agent driving the Chevrolet Tahoe was aware of the situa­tion,” Neibert wrote. 
The account in the report is consistent with details Neibert and Sikes gave reporters shortly after the incident. 
It said the CHP officer trailed the Prius at 95 mph on Interstate 8 east of San Diego, and the car slowed to about 50 mph before the officer told Sikes over a loudspeaker to hit the floor brake and emergency brake simultaneously. Sikes gradually came to an unassisted stop and was not injured. 
The car stopped in mountain­ous terrain 20 miles from a steep downgrade and sharp left turn. 
“If the Prius made it to that location, the ultimate result would have most likely led to a catastrophic ending,” the officer wrote. 
Sikes told Neibert he had tried three times to lift the gas pedal with his hand but was unsuc­cessful, the report states. 
Sikes, 61, was initially reluc­tant to speak with reporters, but the officer urged him to go to the station to “put the media at ease,” according to the report. 
“I advised him the media would most likely seek him out if he did not speak to them vol­untarily,” Neibert wrote. 


Thursday, March 18, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Research monkeys die 


Searchresumesformom,son 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE — Authorities in Washington state on Wednesday resumed their search for a woman who appears to have abandoned a van on a remote Puget Sound beach over the weekend and disappeared with her 8-year­old son. 
A boat is searching the Boston Harbor area with a bloodhound on board to try to pick up the scent of Shantina “Kat” Smiley and her son Azriel Carver, said Lt. Chris Mealy of the Thurston County Sheriff’s Office. Dogs are also searching the roads and the area sur­rounding the beach. 

The search was back on Wednesday afternoon after someone in the area recovered several items that washed up on the beach overnight. 
The items included two mis­matched leather shoes, a half-full and corked wine bottle, an inhaler and an orange ball, Mealy said. 
He said one of the shoes could be a child’s shoe. He added that 


due to extreme heat 

the 29-year-old Smiley pur­chased a bottle of wine during her travels around Olympia on Saturday night. 
Investigators planned to ask Smiley’s fiance, Robb Simmons, if he can determine whether any of the items belonged to Smiley or her son. 
The search and rescue opera­tion was called off Wednesday morning when detectives didn’t turn up any solid leads and turned their focus toward other segments of the investigation. 

keys died in Nevada was fined a mere $14,000 for the two inci­dents, according to records from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
“The penalties have given them virtually no motivation whatsoev­er to cease violating the law,” said Michael Budkie, the executive director of the Ohio-based Stop Animal Exploitation Now. “If they are literally killing animals through negligence, something is wrong with the system.” 
The group asked Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack last month for an independent investigation into animal deaths at research labs. 
Agriculture Department records show there were 97 neg­ligent animal deaths at research facilities nationwide over the last two years, a figure that does not include lab mice and rats. 
One of the biggest violators was Charles River Laboratories, where the 33 monkeys died at facilities in Reno in 2008 and Sparks in 2009. 
The Massachusetts-based com­pany is one of the world’s largest suppliers of clinical and laborato­ry research services to pharma­ceutical and biotech companies. 

It also is a leading importer of research animals and breeds some of its own animals for med­ical research. Its researchers in Nevada are working to find a cure for cancer, new flu vaccines and better ways to treat obesity. 
Spokeswoman Amy Cianciaruso said survival rates for major diseases are at an all-time high thanks to the discovery of new drugs made possible in part by the work of scientists at Charles River labs. The company has called the monkey deaths a “terrible and unfortunate tragedy,” but said they were iso­lated cases and corrective actions were taken. Agriculture Department records show one employee was fired and another disciplined. 
“Charles River’s work is an essential component of the research that has led to these dis­coveries and has played a vital role in medical advances for humans as well as animals,” Cianciaruso said. 
The dead monkeys represent a tiny fraction of the tens of thou­sands of primates used for research around the country. 
Charles River is one of 26 regis­tered U.S. importers of non­human primates, a group that includes zoos, universities and private labs, said Christine Pearson, a spokeswoman for the National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
Together they imported 27,388 animals in fiscal year 2008 and have averaged approximately 25,000 primates per year over the past four or five years, she said. Charles River alone report­ed it housed nearly 10,000 pri­mates nationwide in 2008. 
Congress first passed the Animal Welfare Act in 1966 and amended it in the 1980s to set new minimum standards for dogs used in research and the psycho­logical well-being of primates. It was amended again in 2008, rais­ing fines from $2,500 to the cur­rent $10,000 per violation for negligent acts. 
Associated Press 
SPARKS, Nev. — Workers at a Nevada research lab were check­ing on a primate room when they came across a ghastly sight: Thirty dead monkeys were essen­tially cooked alive after someone left the heater on. Two others were near death and had to be euthanized. 
At a lab run by the same com­pany, a monkey died last year after it was sent through a wash­er while still in its cage. The tem­peratures were so scalding the monkey never had a chance. 
The two cases have led to calls for greater oversight and enforce­ment of the animal research industry after an alarmingly high number of deaths in recent years. 
Critics say fines for violations at animal research labs are so puny that they do nothing to deter vio­lations. The lab where the mon­

The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, March 18, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 

Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Chris Masoud Alicia Smith Molly Sammon Sara Felsenstein Tim Singler 
Graphics Scene 
Andrea Archer Alex Kilpatrick 
Viewpoint 
Ethan Bailey 




Saint Patrick’s: A quiet day at home 
As I sit here in my study, I write that it is Saint Patrick’s Day, a day which warms the cockles of my heart as an Irishman. All too often the great intellectual contri­butions of the Irish to the world languish unrecognized, despite their Brooks Smith astounding liter­ary, theatrical, sci-
Intellectual
entific and artistic contributions. It is salutary and important, therefore, to have a day in which we pay tribute to the great Irish minds of the past. 
It has not escaped my attention, howev­er, that many people feel this day is noth­ing more than an excuse to indulge the baser aspects of their human nature. I look out my window over the quad and see, not the orderly procession of fellow students to their classes, but all sorts of quite unaccountable frivolity. It appears that many students have forgotten how to walk, as they stagger and stumble from place to place. Some of my schoolmates who have found comfort in the opposite sex are quite openly expressing their affection for each other by kissing, not gently but rather deeply, after the French fashion. 
All this, I think, is due to the regrettable stereotype of the Irishman as a hard-drinking, potato-consuming, ugly, brawl­ing lout, swinging a shillelagh with one hand and guzzling a Guinness with the other. I even overheard a conversation yesterday in which some students were excitedly discussing their plans to create and consume a drink they referred to as “Irish car-bombs” — a most insensitive name which makes unacceptably light of a truly dark period in recent Irish history, the sooner forgotten the better. 
Indeed, I have lately noticed a great decline in public civility and morals. Why, as I was walking back from a gathering of fellow mathematicians late one night, a lady on the street walked up to me and quite boldly inquired if I wanted “sex business!” “Certainly not!” I replied, offended. “I have no intention of exposing my genitals to passersby on the street. We have hardly made each other’s acquain­tance and you wish to exchange bodily fluids and lice with me? Get out of my sight!” The nerve of that saucy wench! 
Yes, not for me the idle frittering away of time on pursuits of debased pleasures. I shall celebrate this distinctly Irish holi­day by immersing myself in its intellectual life, perhaps underlining passages of interest in “Finnegan’s Wake” or chuck­ling at certain scatological episodes in Swift which I must confess I find highly amusing. Perhaps I shall take up the study of verb declensions in Gaelic as used in the “Tain Bo Cuailnge,” the great Irish mythological epic, equaled only by the Iliad in historical importance and lit­erary merit. Or I might comb my side­burns so as to gain a greater resemblance to James Clerk Maxwell, the great unifier of the forces of electricity and magnetism and Ireland’s answer to Einstein. 
What’s that? I hear a knocking at the door of my apartment. No doubt mathe­matical friends, come to discuss the pur­suits of the mind. Come in, gentlemen! As it is Saint Patrick’s Day, the preeminent Irish holiday, I thought we might discuss Sir William Rowan Hamilton’s contribu­tions to the science of the quaternions and the vector calculus. 
Why sirs, your faces and cheeks are all quite red! Is it truly that cold out? I had thought it quite temperate. Please, my friends, lower your voices! There are other people in this apartment complex. Does my nose detect the distinctive odor of cheap whiskey? Well I never — you’re all quite soused! What are you doing with that strange contraption, that funnel affixed to a plastic tube? Is that a canister of inexpensive beer? Don’t put that dirty tube in my mouth! Mmph! Glug-glug­glug-glug-glug! 
Good heavens. I feel quite strange. My whole body is positively thrumming with energy. I have a truly odd urge to sing popular music of the most low and shameful persuasion, “power ballads” and “bohemian rhapsodies” and whatnot, at the top of my lungs. What’s that you say, my good fellows? You know of an establishment nearby which sells drinks and allows its patrons to sing — a “karaoke bar?” Lead me there, gentle­men, I am at your disposal. Might I trou­ble you to pour me another alcoholic bev­erage through your wonder tube? Glug­glug-glug-glug-glug! “Is this the real life, is this just fantasy …” 
Brooks Smith is a junior math and English major at Notre Dame. He can be contacted at bsmith26@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Believing in the Irish 
Irish eyes are smiling on the Fightin’ Irish 2010 Men’s Basketball team. We have huge momentum going into the tour­ney and it is time to pull out all the stops. I see an Irish victory over Kansas in the final. If every Irish fan could visual­ize this result, it would occur. 
Sue Lang 
alumna Class of 1979 March 18 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Only two things are infinite, the universe and human stupidity, and I'm not sure about the former.” 
Albert Einstein Swiss-American physicist 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“We are all atheists about most of the gods humanity has everbelieved in. Some of us just go one god further.” 
Richard Dawkins British ethologist 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 
Thursday, March 18, 2010 page 11 
Why Christians are chicken 
When was the first time you ever saw God? I don’t mean “I saw God in the bum­ble bee on a rose petal this morning.” I’m talking face-to-face. Was there ever a time when you actually looked into the face of your Creator? 
This is not a 

Fr. Lou DelFra 
trick question. The Psalms seem to suggest that each FaithPoint of us, before we were born, gazed upon the face of God, and God upon us. This seems worth pondering. Psalm 139 tells us, 
“From the beginning, Lord, you created my inmost being, 
You knit me in my mother’s womb. 
My body was not hidden from you, 
When I was made in your secret place. 
When I was woven together, 
Your eyes gazed upon my body.” 

This is an intimate psalm about our cre­ation. There is a notion here that, some­time even before we were conceived in our mother’s womb, we gazed into the eyes of the Pure Love who created us from the very beginning. 
(Since I was a Program of Liberal Studies major, I have a license — granted upon graduation — to cite scientific phenomena and processes, with no precise under­standing of them, to make purely literary, philosophical and theological points, which I will now do.) 
You may recall from high school biology class a most unusual phenomenon called imprinting. Imprinting, as I understand it, was first discovered to occur in chickens. It describes the almost humorous phenome­non that the first living thing a baby chick sees when it hatches out of its egg, it believes for the rest of its life to be its mother. 
So, for example, if a baby chick is hatched in an incubator by a lab techni­cian, and the first living thing it sees after it hatches is the lab technician, guess what? The lab technician is “Mommy.” And if the chick is let out of its pen, even if there are other hens around, including its real mom, it will follow around the lab technician. In fact, if memory serves me right, it has been shown that the lab tech­nician can disappear for months, even years, at a time, but if she comes back one day, the chicken will immediately start to follow her. That’s how powerful the imprint is! 
Now this is where the Scriptures — from Psalm 139 to the Gospels — get interest­ing. John’s Gospel, for example, records the story of a man “blind from birth.” This man, in other words, has never seen another person in his life. And then Jesus comes and opens his eyes. So, the very first person the blind man sees in his life is Jesus. 
In order to cure him, John tells us that Jesus made clay and smeared it into his eyes. Now John is a masterful story-teller, and this detail is hardly unimportant. In fact, clay is the very material out of which God made the first humans in Genesis. So, just as Adam and Eve gazed on God, and God on them, with no obstacles, so this man will gaze on God and God on him, face-to-face, through Christ. 
And sure enough, the man opens his eyes, and gazes upon Jesus, and from that moment on, he has a longing deep within him, to know something about this man who re-created him. The whole remainder of the Gospel is this man coming to a deep­er and deeper knowledge of who Jesus is. First, “He’s the man who gave me sight.” Then, “He’s a prophet.” Until finally, Jesus asks him, “Do you believe in the Son of Man?” He answers, “Who is he, sir, that I might believe?” “The one speaking to you is He.” 
The longing we have to come to know the first person we ever see is a longing that is meant to keep us always trying to encounter God more intimately. Now, the funny thing about all this is, this instinct is so powerful in that little chicken, its long­ing to have a mommy is so incredibly pow­erful, that it makes the chicken start fol­lowing the first thing that moves! 
And we’d laugh at that, except that we know, that every one of us does the same thing — just in much more complex ways! This longing at the center of our being is so powerful that we very often fill it with the first thing that we see moving! In fact, all our other longings — our longing to eat and be full, to see beauty, to befriend someone and feel loved — are all instances of this one central longing at the core of our being — to see our Creator again. 
During Lent, we give up things we desire, little things for which we often long. One way to think about this practice is that it is our way of reminding ourselves: All our desires in the end are just little instances of our desire for God. And only God, who we looked upon first, before we were born, will ultimately fill our deepest longing. 
This week’s FaithPoint was written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, director of Bible Studies and ACE Chaplain. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


A plea for Freedom of Speech to Fr. Jenkins 
Dear Father Jenkins: 

We are graduates of the University of Notre Dame who went on to gradu­ate from law schools around the country. We write to express our pro­found concern and disappointment 
Guest Column
regarding the University’s recent treatment of a group of students who engaged in free speech to inform their classmates and the public about Catholic Social Teaching and its rela­tion to the University’s investments. 
We understand that on Saturday, Feb. 20, Notre Dame students peace­fully gathered in a parking lot outside of the Joyce Athletic Center to inform the public about the University’s investment in HEI Hotels and Resorts, a company that has been accused by the Office of General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board of egregiously violating workers’ rights. Notre Dame Security agents forced the students to halt their leafleting and confiscated the leaflets. The University subsequently summoned three of the students to appear at a Disciplinary Conference presumably for their attempt to inform the public about Catholic Social Teaching. 
As you know, the confiscated leaflets reference a complaint issued by the General Counsel of the federal National Labor Relations Board against the HEI-owned Sheraton Crystal City Hotel, alleging that HEI interrogated, threatened, suspended and fired mainly immigrant hotel workers who are organizing collec­tively to improve their working condi­tions. Some of HEI’s hotel workers, like Hermen Romero who works at the Sheraton Crystal City, earn as lit­tle as $9.59 per hour. In addition, HEI has raised the cost to employees for family health insurance to over $300 per month, making it harder for workers to pay for health benefits for their children. 
The leaflet called on Notre Dame to adhere to Catholic Social Teaching, as articulated by the United States Catholic Bishops, which declares: “All people have the right to economic ini­tiative, to productive work, to just wages and benefits, to decent working conditions, as well as to organize and join unions or other associations.” The leaflet also cited Pope John Paul II, who stated in Laborem Exercens that the union’s “task is to defend the existential interests of workers in all sectors where their rights are con­cerned. … [Unions] are indeed a mouthpiece for the struggle for social justice, for the just rights of working people in accordance with their indi­vidual professions.” 
The students tried to leaflet outside of an event — a Catholic Mass — held at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center (JACC) that was open to the general public and was in no way a closed, private University gathering. The leafleters confined their peaceful speech activity to the JACC parking lot, and did not disrupt the Mass itself. Public forums and public park­ing lots are a traditionally respected site of free speech activity. Public places where communities gather have historically enjoyed the highest level of Constitutional protection under the First Amendment. The University should afford the same level of respect to non-disruptive free speech activity carried out in a church parking lot open to the public. 
Notre Dame’s policy, which appar­ently requires student groups to obtain permission from the University prior to engaging in peaceful expres­sive activity, is a troubling a priori restriction on free speech. Such over-broad permitting requirements grant the University unlimited discretion to decide what categories of student speech should be forbidden on cam­pus. It is precisely for this reason that federal courts have repeatedly over­turned analogous governmental per­mitting schemes as unlawful limita­tions on First Amendment rights. 
Even worse, the circumstances sug­gest that the University has applied its policy in an arbitrary manner, call­ing police officers to shut down a peaceful, non-offensive student gath­ering and threatening to sanction par­ticipants, simply because it disliked the content of the students’ message. According to the students, they have regularly leafleted at other student events without similar retaliation. 
Further, as a recipient of federal educational funds, the University is no doubt aware that Title 20, U.S. Code § 1011a, “Protection of student speech and association rights,” pro­vides that no student should “be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination or official sanction” by an educational institution receiv­ing federal financial assistance for participating in constitutionally pro­tected speech. 
Apart from these legal concerns about Notre Dame’s actions, the University’s mission is to adhere to Catholic Social Teaching. As such, we are stunned that it would deploy resources to suppress the dissemina­tion of those basic tenets. The Church consistently and vigorously defends the right of all workers to organize a Union, and the right of all people to freedom of assembly, as pillars of this teaching. 
The University’s prohibition of its students from leafleting on Feb. 20 and its decision to take the students to a Disciplinary Conference are deeply troubling from both a legal and an ethical standpoint. We strong­ly urge the University to refrain from future disruption of peaceful expres­sive activity by its students, and to terminate its unjustified disciplinary proceedings against any students who were involved. We believe that such courageous, principled students, who devote their time and energy to speaking out on behalf of others, act in the best traditions of the University of Notre Dame. They deserve to be recognized for their witness, not dis­ciplined for it. 
This column was written in collaboration by 1987 Notre Dame alumni and current lawyers Kevin Clegg, John Lavelle, Jeanne Bowman-Szromba, Kurt Peterson, Tom Szromba and Frank Losurdo. Kurt Peterson can be reached with regard to this column at kpetersen1@sbcglobal.net 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR  
Workout recruitment  
It’s when I’m sitting at my desk watching “Lost” and Facebook chat­ting with friends (a Word document ambitiously open to give the illusion of productivity) that I feel the fiery judg­ment piercing from behind. I covertly glance over my shoulder and see them staring at me. I know that I’ll feel bet­ter if I put them on; slip my feet into those faithful Nikes knit with sweaty  memories and whispered promises of endorphin highs and self-satisfied pride. But usually I just turn back to my conversation, guiltily ignoring their gaze. When I do concede, I’m tying the laces with reluctance moti­vated by remorse, not excitement. What happened to me? I used to be fit, healthy (I still am — that never entirely goes away) but I’m “softer”  than I was when I ran for the track team only six months ago. I want to emphasize that this is about getting healthy, not weight loss. Being active makes me happy, increas­es my self-confidence and generates a sense of pride in my physical appear­ance. This is why I’d like to put together a group to keep each other accountable and make working out a  social activity. Send me an e-mail at bburgeso@nd.edu if you are interest­ed. Britt Burgeson sophomore Pasquerilla West Hall March 18  

The Observer 



Scene
page 12 Thursday, March 18, 2010 


By ADRIANA PRATT 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Sandra Bullock: 
As everyone knows, this star was a winner on every level possible on March 7. The Oscar she won was a mere accessory to the gorgeous, elegant and classy but sexy Marchesa gown she chose to clothe her fabu­lous figure. The sheer metallic and lacy details were perfectly balanced with simple side-swept hair and a smack of pink lipstick to add a punch of color to Bullock’s otherwise statue-like presence. She aced yet another award’s show red car­pet and even has the Oscar to prove it. 

Cameron Diaz: 
Finally, Cameron, you maxi­mized on the beauty you were given. Past red carpet appear­ances left critics confused as to why this gorgeous woman with a fit figure and dazzling pres­ence constantly failed to pick a gown that matched, but this year she aced it to the approval of all. Her strapless, shimmery embroidered Oscar de la Renta gown, sideswept hair and punch of red lips made her look like an old school Hollywood muse, overflowing with ele­gance and glamour. Though her look resembled Bullock’s, it was refreshingly new, demure and much appreciated on Diaz. 

Mariah Carey: 
Mariah, Mariah, Mariah. It doesn’t always have to be about the chest. Carey disappointed once again with an obvious presence of her décolletage that left little to the imagination and an overabundance of deca­dent jewelry. It doesn’t always have to be “Go big or go home,” Mariah. Large earrings, stacks of diamond bracelets on both wrists and an overwhelming brooch made for an uninspiring and blatantly flashy red carpet appearance. No one, not even Eminem, is going to be “obsessed” with this look. 

Vera Farmiga: 
Mixed feelings hid in every ruffle of Farmiga’s billowing fuchsia Marchesa gown. At first I loved it, then I wasn’t quite sure, then I was distracted by the beautiful Sandra Bullock and finally I reached this con­clusion: Farmiga’s gown was Oscar appropriate and I appre­ciated that she graced the red carpet with it. It added some flavor and though it wasn’t the most flattering fit because it hid every contour of her amazing 36-year-old body, it did bring a punch of color and a fresh spring feel to the awards show. 

Sarah Jessica Parker: 
You’ve got to give the woman props for trying to stay in char­acter, even on the red carpet. Parker’s pale gold column Chanel gown with a silver embroidered crown at the bosom and gold drapery across the neckline screamed Carrie Bradshaw. Parker brought something new and daring to the red carpet and though it admittedly looked better on the runway, it was innovative and inspiring and helped up the couture quota for the night. 

Meryl Streep: 
You’re always classy, adorable and a pleasure to lis­ten to. It almost doesn’t matter what you wear since your smile is one of the most dazzling and endearing images we’ve seen. Your white cowl neck long-sleeved gown by Project Runway’s Chris March was sim­ple yet flattering and proved that it’s possible for a woman to age with grace. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic Photo Illustration by Ian Gavlick and Blair Chemidlin 

Thursday, March 18, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 2 

‘Floor general’ Jackson heart of Irish team 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Taking the game-winning shot as time expires can be the most exciting play in all of sports. Make it, and you’re featured on SportsCenter’s Top 10 plays and vaulted into legendary status in school history. Miss, and your entire career may be defined by what could have been. 
So when senior guard Tory Jackson missed the game-winning 3 in a 69-68 loss to St. John’s, it could have marked the end of a brilliant four-year career. 
“It looked good when I let it go, it felt good, but it didn’t end up going down,” Jackson said. “I think about it all the time, even when I hit the buzzer beater against Pittsburgh at halftime.” 
Trailing No. 7 West Virginia by two points in the final seconds of the Big East tournament semifi­nals, Jackson had another good look at a game-winning 3, but was unrewarded as the Irish fell to the Mountaineers. Jackson said if the situation ever arises again, he won’t hesitate to let it fly. 
“When Kobe and Jordan and all those guys take those shots, they miss a lot of game-winning shots,” Jackson said. “And when I look at it, I’ve missed some important shots, but I’m not going to lose confidence and not take that shot. I’m going to keep having confi­dence and taking that shot, and that’s what makes me me.” 


Coupled with a passion for the game and the willingness to sacri­fice individual success for the sake of the team, it was an easy deci­sion for Irish coach Mike Brey to name Jackson one of the team’s captains. 
“Unselfishness,” Jackson said. “Growing up, I always loved to get my team involved. I do whatever it takes to win. At the same time, especially when a guy’s hot, why not? If that’s going to help us win, I’d rather take the win than score 50 points and lose. That’s not good.” 
A prolific scorer in high school, Jackson ranks third all time on the Michigan scoring list as the state’s two-time player of the year. Upon coming to Notre Dame, Jackson said he knew he would have to rely on his ball handling skills and court vision to break into a Big East starting lineup. 
Leading the conference with 5.6 assists per game to go along with a top-10 assist-to-turnover ratio, it’s safe to say the senior guard has made the transition success­fully. 
“To do that and take care of the ball at the same time, it’s a great thing if it can get us more posses­sions,” Jackson said. “Being ranked up there in the assist-turnover ratio, that’s real good for me, that’s real good for any point guard.” 
Playing in every contest since his first day at Notre Dame, Jackson had an immediate impact as a freshman. Named to the All-Big East rookie team, Jackson relied on his strengths as a defender before expanding his overall game. 
“Just figuring out ways to stay on the floor,” Jackson said. “I was­n’t a big time, 30-point scorer, but I played well defensively when I was younger, especially sopho­more year. As the years went on, I had to become a little bit of a scor­er, getting more assists, and also defending the best player on the other team.” 
Guarding the likes of Villanova point guard Scottie Reynolds can be a daunting task for any defend­er, let alone one who is 5-11. But what he lacks in size, Jackson said he makes up for in toughness 
“I hate when anybody scores,” Jackson said. “It’s a passion. I take pride in my defense.” 
When an injury to senior for­ward Luke Harangody was fol­lowed by losses to Seton Hall, St. John’s and Louisville, many con­sidered the season over. But a string of six consecutive victories, including blowouts against No. 16 Pittsburgh and No. 22 Georgetown, has propelled Notre Dame to a No. 6 seed in the NCAA Tournament. 
Jackson, who calls himself the floor general, says he embraces the task of stepping up and lead­ing the team with a limited Harangody in the lineup. 
“I love the challenge,” Jackson said. “We’ve got to pick up the slack for what Gody had.” 
Jackson has answered the call, scoring 22 points against Connecticut in a victory many believed secured a tournament bid for the Irish. The senior guard was recently named to the Big East All-Tournament team, aver­aging 10.7 points, five assists and playing all 120 minutes in Madison Square Garden. 
“It’s basketball,” Jackson said. “I’ve been playing this for awhile, so you kind of get that feeling, get into that zone where, especially when you get a mismatch, you got to have confidence, you got to have swag.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

Peoples a constant contributor in historic senior class 
freshman year though.” 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
In the basketball program, 
Senior Sports Writer 
Peoples had to make adjust­
ments to 6 a.m. practices. 

While he may not have the “The workouts in the morn-accolades or numbers of class-ing had me, I just couldn’t get mates Luke Harangody and through it for the first two Tory Jackson, senior guard months, and I was getting a lit-Jonathan Peoples has been a tle home sick,” Peoples said. constant contributor to the win-“Being around the older guys ningest class in Notre Dame like Colin Falls, Rob Kurz, history in Big East play. Russell Carter, they helped me 
Peoples has played in every adjust quickly.” conference game for the Irish While Peoples was learning during his four years with the from the experienced upper-team and is very aware of the classmen around him, he was achievement. still seeing time on the court as 
“It means a lot to say that we a reserve, appearing in all 16 did something like that,” Big East contests. Peoples Peoples said. “We’re always played six minutes of time in going to be remembered as the Notre Dame’s appearance in winningest senior class.” the NCAA Tournament, where 
The senior captain is averag-the Irish were upset by ing a career-high 18.3 minutes Winthrop. per game this season but has Peoples minutes and impact played a key role for Irish continued to grow through his coach Mike Brey and Notre sophomore and junior seasons Dame from his freshman year. when he became one of the 
A Bellwood, Ill., native from first players off Brey’s bench. St. Joseph High School, Peoples The guard played in all 33 con-he can shoot the ball lights lot better. I’m more of a defend-return to the Big Dance for the was recruited by Brey after tests sophomore year and out,” Jackson said. “He’s a er now,” Peoples said. third time in four years. averaging 15.2 points per game earned his first career starts great guy and he knows how to Peoples had the best per-“It’s been a battle. I think we his senior year. After the Irish his junior season against play basketball.” formance of his career off the stayed together as a team but extended a scholarship offer, Marquette and Pittsburgh. Peoples was slotted as a bench this season, scoring 23 we lost games by not doing a Peoples quickly accepted. “I finally got the opportunity guard in the starting lineup at points and grabbing six couple little things,” Peoples 
The transition to Notre Dame to start my first college game, the beginning of his senior rebounds in a win over said. “We still have to prove was both exciting and challeng-and I was happy,” Peoples said. campaign but has entered into Providence. something.” ing for Peoples. “I was kind of nervous, but a sixth-man role since the While it looked like Peoples Peoples and the Irish will look 
“It was everything I expected, happy at the same time.” emergence of junior forward and Notre Dame had little shot to prove they can advance to everything I heard about. Evolving into a veteran leader Tim Abromaitis. Still, Peoples of reaching the NCAA their first Sweet 16 of their Beautiful campus, the people by his senior year, Peoples was has played a career-high num-Tournament after a losing skid careers starting against Old here are great,” Peoples said. named a captain by Brey along ber of minutes for his career and the loss of Harangody to Dominion at 12:25 p.m. today. “I didn’t know about parietals, I with classmates Jackson and and is hitting 3-pointers at a injury, the team put together a was kind of heated about that. Harangody. 40.8-percent clip. remarkable six-game winning Contact Michael Bryan at It was a great experience my “He’s smooth, he can score, “My jump shot has gotten a streak to close out the year and mbryan@nd.edu 

Thursday, March 18, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Leaving a legacy 
Luke Harangody returned to lead Notre Dame his senior season and will leave an all-time great 
and physical toughness, both and beat George Mason easily 
By BILL BRINK 

of them, that I think has per-in the first round. Despite 
Senior Staff Writer 

meated through our group. It’s Harangody’s 22 rebounds, No. helped some other guys who 4 seed Washington State took 
On March 3, Luke aren’t at their level of mental down the Irish in the second Harangody became the first-and physical toughness-wise round. ever Irish player to be induct-pick it up at times.” During Harangody’s junior ed into the Purcell Pavilion’s Harangody said he and season, Notre Dame started Ring of Honor. His No. 44 jer-Jackson entered their rookie 12-3 but lost seven straight sey climbed to the rafters, cel-seasons with a “business-like” games and dropped out of con­ebrating four years of awards, attitude, which helped Notre tention for the Tournament. It accolades and success. Dame earn a No. 6 seed in the wasn’t for a lack of production 
“Seeing some of the players 2007 NCAA Tournament. The from Harangody: He led the involved in this University, for Irish lost to No. 11 seed team in scoring for 14 consec­me to be the first one, it was a Winthrop in the first round. utive games and averaged a tremendous Harangody career-best 23.3 points and honor,” the sen-averaged 11.2 11.8 boards per game. ior forward “I realize it’s a once-points per game Harangody scored 30 points said. “That was in-a-lifetime that season in against Kentucky in the NIT a very proud more than 20 quarterfinals and had a dou­
opportunity to be
night for minutes per ble-double in the semifinal loss myself.” with a group like game and to Penn State. One of many. this.” became the first Then came decision time. In H a r a n g o d y freshman since April 2009, Harangody, then a will graduate as Troy Murphy to junior, declared his eligibility 
Luke Harangody 
Notre Dame’s score in double for the NBA Draft. He didn’t second-leading Irish forward figures in his hire an agent, however, which scorer and first five games. allowed him the opportunity to rebounder. His “[The NCAA change his mind and return to class made the NCAA Tournament freshman year] school. Tournament three out of four was a pretty memorable sea-“I think when you are a kid years and has won more son because it was my first go-shooting around at the park, games than any other class in around with things,” he said. every kid dreams of playing in school history. He was named “It was something I’ll always the NBA and obviously I did the 2008 Big East Player of the remember.” and this has always been a Year, was a second-team All-Harangody, like any athlete, dream of mine,” he said on American in 2008 and 2009 said he believes in off-season April 16, 2009. “So I mean for fortable coming back to school He’s a leader and kind of a and became the first Notre improvement, me, it’s neat to here.” coach for us.” Dame player to be named to so he used the be standing up That senior season didn’t “I think you just try to keep the Big East first-team three summer to hone here and pan out quite like he planned. their confidence up,” times. his game as “This run we made at announcing this At first the Irish played well, Harangody said of his 
As a freshman, Harangody well as his fit-decision today. but once they got into confer-approach with Scott and 
the end of the
said he didn’t anticipate it. ness. The next “This is a new ence play they had two rough Cooley. “At first, the first game 
season, it was pretty 
“No, there’s no way I ever season, he territory for me. stretches, losing three out of against St. John’s after I left, a saw that,” he said. averaged 20.4 special. These guys But, you know, five and four out of seven at couple guys didn’t really know Harangody received four points and 10.6 one of the best various points. Worse still, how to approach it. But it as it 
have played great
varsity letters at Andrean High rebounds per things is that Harangody suf-went on and 
without me.” 
School in Schererville, Ind., game. with the team I fered a bone they got more where he won two conference “It all has to have, the team-bruise in his practice time it and three sectional champi-do with work Luke Harangody mates I have, I knee on Feb. 11 was like night onships. When he got to Notre ethic,” he said. told them this against Seton “He’s been one of the and day.” 
Irish forward 
Dame, he and then-freshman “Every summer, week what I was Hall and missed best greatest to ever Harangody guard Tory Jackson played whether it’s going to do and five games r e c o v e r e d
wear a uniform here. 

early in the season. been working they have been because of the enough to play 
“We threw them in there, on my body or working on so supportive, not only the injury. At one Flat out.” in Notre Dame’s both of them were key guys as another part of my game, just team’s leader but the guys that point the Irish last regular-sea­freshman,” Irish coach Mike get better every year.” are going to be on the team were 6-8 in the son game, an 
Mike Brey 

Brey said. “We went to the It was that season that next year and, you know, I conference and overtime win on 
Irish coach

NCAA Tournament because earned him conference Player wasn’t very surprised at that the season’s the road against they were ready as freshman of the Year honors. because I know we have some funeral march Marquette. He to be men in this league. They The Irish earned a No. 5 of the best guys in the world was beginning. came off the have an unbelievable mental seed in the Dance that year here, in the country.” Even with a bench for 11 Those supportive teammates serious injury, Harangody minutes and scored five points. played a role in Harangody’s wouldn’t be slowed. He missed He also played in all three of decision to forgo the draft and the next game, against St. Notre Dame’s Big East tourna­return to school to finish his John’s, but convinced everyone ment games, averaging 14 senior year. he would play against points and 24 minutes per 
“It was obvious to see that Louisville on Feb. 17. game. the NBA is a business,” he said “He kind of talked us into he Harangody said after Notre on July 15, 2009. “It’s not like was going to try and play,” Dame’s 50-45 win over being at Notre Dame around Brey said. “He had everybody, Pittsburgh in the quarterfinals the group of guys that we the doctors the trainers, me. that his knee was getting bet-have. I realize it’s a once-in-a-‘I’m going.’ He didn’t bring any ter but not yet 100 percent lifetime opportunity to be with street clothes. ‘I’m playing.’” and that he was proud of what a group like this.” It took Brey to stop him. the team had done in his 
Harangody said he wasn’t “He wasn’t feeling good absence. ready to give up one last go-[after the shoot-around],” Brey “I was curious to see how around with his teammates. said. “I told him after shoot-two games in a row would go 
“It was one more year to be around, ‘Well I’m not playing with my conditioning,” he said. around the guys and get a sen-you so how’s that? Does that “I’m still not there yet. But I ior year,” Harangody said make the decision easier? think every day it’s getting a recently. “It’s something I truly You’re not ready.’” little better. hold special. Now I get a But then a funny thing hap-“This run we made at the chance to watch these guys pened: Notre Dame slowed end of the season, it was pretty succeed in the postseason and down its offense and had suc-special. These guys have also get my degree.” cess. The Irish lost in double played great without me.” 
Harangody said his parents overtime to Louisville, but won He’s back now, ready to add and Brey helped him with the their next three games, includ-NCAA Tournament success to decision. ing two over top-15 opponents, his extraordinary career. 
“[Brey] was very helpful to finish the season. All with-“When he got here he made throughout the whole process. out Harangody. us believe again,” Brey said. He wasn’t like, ‘Come back to “What I’ve been really happy “He was an impact guy. Look school,’” Harangody said. “He with, since he’s been down, at what he’s done throughout gave me options to go out how he’s been helping [fresh-his career. there. He was always open to man forward Jack] Cooley and “He’s been one of the great-me, which I really appreciated. [junior forward Carleton] est to ever wear a uniform In the end, my parents and I Scott,” Brey said. “His voice here. Flat out.” and coach Brey sat down and with those guys during the talked about the whole situa-game, halftime, I could hear Contact Bill Brink at tion and I just felt more com-his voice in the locker room. wbrink@nd.edu 



Thursday, March 18, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 4 
Walk-on Andree makes impact leading underclassmen 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Writer 
Luke Harangody and Tory Jackson will undoubtedly leave major legacies as four-year starters and the leaders of Notre Dame’s winningest sen­ior class. 
While walk-on senior for­ward Tim Andree won’t leave the same mark on the face of the Irish program, his impact on the Notre Dame program could have long-term effects because of his work this sea­son with freshmen Mike Broghammer, Jack Cooley and Tom 
Andree’s father, Tim, played at Notre Dame under leg­endary coach Digger Phelps from 1979-83. While Andree’s career obviously didn’t follow that of his father, he said he has enjoyed his Notre Dame experiences, especially those with the Irish team. 
“My dad came in here in a totally different situation than I did. He was a McDonald’s high school All-American, I clearly wasn’t,” Andree said. “I’ve just tried to come out and play hard and be my own per­son. It’s sometimes tough living in the shadow of it, but it has­
n’t been too 
hard.” 
Andree’s 


Knight. mother also 
“I’ve just tried to come
“I’ve done a attended Notre lot of stuff in out and play hard and Dame, and so this offseason be my own person.” accepting a role with the fresh-with the Irish men,” Andree program was 
Tim Andree 
said. “Just a almost a no-lot of getting Irish forward brainer, Andree extra work-said. outs with them “I grew up and helping always wanting them get in shape. We haven’t to come to Notre Dame, so really had a true group of when [Irish coach Mike Brey] freshmen in a while like this, told me I had the opportunity and it’s been fun having these to play here, it was tough to guys in. They’re all really good turn down,” he said. players and fun to be around.” Andree said the bonds he 
As a walk-on, Andree knew has formed with his team-his biggest role wouldn’t nec-mates has reaffirmed that essarily be on the court during decision and made his Notre games. His primary role as a Dame experience. Andree lives practice player has taught him off campus with Harangody “to let the little things go,” he and senior guard Ben said. Hansbrough. 
“I know going into every year “When we’re not here [on what the deal is,” Andree said. the court], we’re just friends,” “Basketball’s a fun game, Andree said. “We’re not really we’re all playing the game of thinking about basketball, but basketball because we enjoy it living a normal life.” and have fun with it.” A management consulting major and theology minor, Andree said he is waiting to hear from law schools. While his future almost certainly won’t be in basketball, he said he will miss his experiences with the Irish basketball team, and especially with Brey. 
“Coach Brey treats us all like men. There’s a lot of mutual respect between us,” Andree said. “He’s very funny, he’s got a great personality, and he’s a lot of fun to be around. He’s given me a lot more confi­dence. 
“My high school coaches, they relied more on a negative style of coaching. Here, it’s all about the positives, and he makes you believe in yourself.” 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Thursday, March 18, 2010 page 13 
Thursday: “The Blind Side,” Debartolo 101 @ 10 p.m. 
“The Blind Side ” depicts the true story of Michael Oher, a homeless young African American boy who is taken in by a white family, the Tuohys. Through their loving support, Oher excels both in football and athletics, eventu­ally becoming a first round draft pick for the NFL. In developing their relationship, the Tuohys and Oher make important discoveries about themselves and each other. The all -star cast includes Tim McGraw and Sandra Bullock, who won an Oscar for her role as Leigh Anne Tuohy. “The Blind Side” is also showing Friday and Saturday nights at 8 and 10:30 p.m. 
Friday: Ras Souljah, Legends @ 10 p.m. 
Ras Souljah comes to Legends this Friday, bringing their reggae beats and uplifting attitudes to Notre Dame. The band, started by band members Timothy and La Donna Flynn, began in the early 90s but only became Ras Souljah with its current name and line-up in 2002. They specialize in reggae style, playing their own originals as well as popular covers. Based on an ideology of “positive and uplifting consciousness,” the band is certain to bring a high energy, dynamic show to Legends. And don’t forget to stick around after­wards for Hip Hop night, one of the most popular nights at Legends. 
Saturday: Sister Hazel, Legends @ 10 p.m. 
Sister Hazel will perform Saturday night at Legends. An alternative band out of Gainesville, Fla., Sister Hazel has been together and making music since 1994. Their music is featured on many popular films including “The Wedding Planner,” “American Wedding” and “10 Things I Hate About You.” Most recently, they released an album in 2009 entitled “Release,” which was the number one album on iTunes the day of its release. If spring weather and looming graduation isn’t enough to make you nostalgic, this band will surely do the trick, as they will likely play many of their hits from the past 15 years, and some new stuff too. 
Sunday: “Taxi Driver,” DeBartolo 
Performing Arts Center @ 3 p.m. 
As part of the PAC Classic 100 Film series at DPAC, “Taxi Driver” will be shown Sunday at 3 p.m. Starring Martin Scorsese, Jodie Foster and Cybill Shepherd, this film follows the intense troubling story of a taxi driver, Travis Bickle (Scorsese), who is so disgusted by the low­life New York clientele he serves that he goes on a murderous rampage. As hard as Bickle tries to connect with people around him, he is so engrossed in his own alienation that he turns to violence. Scorsese plays Bickle with a brilliantly haunt­ing quality which makes the film all the more real. 
Contact Genna McCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 


By STEPHANIE DePREZ 
Scene Writer 
Once every year, there comes a day when all the cobwebs of this simple life wash away and we as a human race come face to face with real dreams coming true. It is a col­lective experience, shared by those across the country and across the world. Warriors lay down their weapons and feuds subside, even if only on the outside. But for three hours (or so) in March, the enter­tainment world stands still, takes a deep breath and congratulates itself for continuing to exist. This, ladies and gentlemen, is Oscar Sunday. 
It has been my favorite day of the year for some time. I think it was the moment I realized Bjork could wear a swan as a dress and get the privi­lege of standing on stage to sing “It Is Oh So Quiet” that I realized, the Academy Awards offer a most unique opportunity for anyone to pull out pretty much whatever they want and get away with it, because everyone is so worried about being nice to each other (or at least appearing like they are). 
A few weeks ago my own dreams came true when I got to interview Tom Sherak, president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, Adam Shankman and Bill Mechanic, the producers of this year’s Oscars and Mark Shaiman, the musical conductor. For two 


question I posed that he would not be speaking at the Oscars, because he wanted to help keep the show within the time frame (which, you may have noticed, didn’t work — it still ran over, causing Tom Hanks to 

hours, I participated in a conference but Shankman and Mechanic, too. rush onto the stage to present Best call with other students from across “I love it. Midwest. I love it. I love Picture without so much as a refer-the country, beeping in whenever I the South too … but Notre Dame!” ence to the 10 nominees). He had something Pretty auspicious start, don’t you informed me that I pressing to was the first per-inquire about son (besides his (which was wife) to receive pretty much every this information. 30 seconds). Flabbergasted During the call, my with joy, I did the last name magical-only thing I could ly transformed into — tweeted the “Deprue,” so information to the unfortunately Ausiello Files at these guys won’t Entertainment be recognizing me Weekly. anytime soon. Talking to 
Sherak seemed Shankman and most pleased to be Mechanic was talking. This fresh-probably the high­into-office presi-light of the inter-dent made the view, especially point that the since it became Oscars should be frighteningly fun, and when he clear that both hired Shankman were USC fans. and Mechanic, As soon as my that’s what he told name (Deprue, them to do. When I again) and uni-first succeeded in versity were getting a question announced, the through, and was hits started com-announced as ing. “Stephanie Deprue “You guys my mouth in the face of such a com­ment. All I could think of to do after that was say, “Now you get a tough question,” and proceed to present a fairly involved, probing, insightful inquiry about balancing the Oscars as a commercial event and as an honor ceremony. 
“I love that question.” Good retort, USC. 
After their answers, which were highly satisfactory, I said, “I forgive the USC comment.” (But I didn’t, really. Not in my heart.) 
The last interviewee was Shaiman, who wrote the musical “Hairspray.” He opted not to con­duct the orchestra for the event, not only because he didn’t feel comfort­able as a conductor but also because he doesn’t have the guts to cut off people’s speeches. He did, however, take great care to pair pieces of music with the different presenters that were a bit unexpected. 
The chance to participate in the conference call was quite a rush, even if I did have to deal with Trojan chatter. I think the Oscars lived up to the hype, if only because the image of Kathryn Bigelow holding two Oscars and looking utterly dazed saved the show from its somewhat mediocre level of scripted comedy. Then again, it’s always the unex­pected moments that make the tele­cast so interesting to watch. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, March 18, 2010 
MLB 

Jones has four RBIs in Sox win over Dodgers 
Despite comeback attempt, Royals fall to Padres; Rockies defeat Indians but lose pitcher Flores to an arm injury 
scoreless innings before the White enough. It takes seven MRIs to 
Associated Press 

Sox scored twice in the third. check it out good. I expect him to 
GLENDALE, Ariz. — Andruw “I want to keep building on the be fine.” Jones hit his first spring home run way I have been pitching so far,” and added four RBI against his Ortiz said. “Timing was off today Padres 16, Royals 14 former team, and the Chicago just a little bit and little by little I San Diego left-hander Clayton White Sox beat the Los Angeles was trying to get it back while at Richard spent more time in the Dodgers 5-1 on Wednesday. the same time trying to get out big dugout watching the Padres score 
White Sox starter Jake Peavy league hitters.” than on the mound. pitched five innings, giving up a Ortiz was trying to keep pace The Padres put together three run on three hits. with namesake Ramon Ortiz, who five-run innings as they out-
Jones crushed a three-run home already has pitched nine scoreless slugged the Kansas City Royals on run to left field in the fifth inning innings for the Dodgers this Wednesday. Tony Gwynn and off Ramon Troncoso. He also had spring. Lance Blanks each drove in three an RBI double in the third off Russ The Dodgers’ Carlos runs for the Padres. Ortiz. Monasterios, a Rule 5 pickup from The game included 31 hits, 10 
James Loney delivered the only the Phillies, pitched three score-doubles, three triples, 11 walks, a run off Peavy, a solo home run in less innings in relief to also remain wild pitch, five errors, a passed the second inning, his first of the in the fifth-starter battle. ball and 12 unearned runs — and spring. It was Loney’s first game “He has a nice presence out lasted three hours and 27 min-since returning from a goodwill there and has a good offspeed utes. The Padres led 16-4 entering series in Taiwan. pitch,” manager Joe Torre said of the seventh, but the Royals scored 
Manny Ramirez, who went 0 for Monasterios. “He’s aggressive. I 10 unanswered runs to make it 2 with a walk, was also playing in like what I see.” interesting. his first game since returning from White Sox relievers Matt “I don’t like the result,” Royals Taiwan. Thornton, Tony Pena, Scott manager Trey Hillman said. “I 
Loney’s home run is the only run Linebrink and Carlos Torres held was proud the way we came Peavy has given up in eight the Dodgers scoreless over the back.” innings this spring. final four innings, giving up a Richard watched San Diego 
“Today was a lot better intensi-combined three hits. score five runs in the second and ty-wise,” Peavy said. “That’s a big-White Sox catcher Ramon five in the fourth. In both innings, league lineup ... a great lineup. It Castro received a glancing blow the Padres sent 10 men to the was a good balance of lefties and off the top of his helmet by an plate. righties in there and I was able to Ortiz pitch in the fourth inning and “You wish there was a way for throw all my pitches. It was good left the game. He was sent to a your team to score a lot of runs work and the guys behind me did local hospital for a CT scan that and do it quick,” Richard said. well.” came back negative. “I’ve been thinking of that for a average to .448, while Billy Butler Street and Flores aren’t the only 
Ortiz, in the battle for the No. 5 “He was kind of dizzy when he long time on how to make that drove in three runs for Kansas ones banged up in the bullpen. slot in the Dodgers’ rotation, gave got (to the hospital),” White Sox happen. You love to see the City. Set-up man Rafael Betancourt has up two runs on six hits in four manager Ozzie Guillen said. “I offense do well, but it’s tough to sit an inflamed pitching shoulder — innings. The veteran right-hander don’t think we have a doctor to for so long and go back out there. Rockies 6, Indians 3 although he had an encouraging opened the spring with seven check that big ol’ head good But you’d definitely rather have All morning, Rockies reliever pitching session Wednesday — 
that than your team not scoring Randy Flores took part in a drill and Jimmy Gobble recently runs.” designed to improve the dexterity strained his groin. 
While Richard was credited with and reflexes of the pitchers. The health of the bullpen the victory, he permitted four Still, the exercise couldn’t pre-remains a question mark with runs, three earned, on four hits pare him for the liner off the bat opening day in Milwaukee loom-and a walk in 3 2-3 innings. of Cleveland’s Chris Gimenez. ing on April 5. 
“Even when I was missing with Before Flores even had time to Colorado received solid outings my pitches, I was missing where I flinch, the ball caught him square-from relievers Matt Belisle and wanted,” Richard said. “I think it ly on the left forearm, leaving Justin Speier against Cleveland as was definitely a positive outing. I behind quite a bruise. each pitched scoreless innings. know the stats don’t really relay Following the Rockies’ win over Belisle earned the win while that message. I was definitely the Indians on Wednesday, Flores Speier picked up the save. around the strike zone more. I felt walked out with his pitching arm Neither one is thinking about my command was a little bit bet-wrapped in white gauze. the state of the bullpen, just trying ter. There were just a few balls hit Just another member of to do their jobs. hard. That’s the way baseball is.” Colorado’s battered and bruised “I’ve played this game long 
Luke Hochevar gave up five bullpen. enough to know that you go out unearned runs in the second The knot on Flores’ arm comes there and pitch with the same inning, which included an Alberto on the heels of the news concern-intensity regardless if it’s a spring Callaspo error. Hochevar also ing Huston Street, who could miss training game or a regular season walked four, including Everth the season opener after experi-game,” Speier said. “Whether Cabrera with the bases loaded. encing tightness in his right shoul-you’re pitching in the sixth or the Gwynn cleared them with a three-der during a recent throwing ses-eighth, whether you’re pitching run double and scored on a Jerry sion. Street will find out the with the game on the line or not. Hairston Jr. double. results of an MRI in the next day You still have to have that compet­
“Walks always come back to bite or so. itive edge regardless.” you,” Hochevar said. “The only Should Flores’ arm remain ten-Belisle has the same approach. pitch I was disappointed in was der in the morning, he could be “My mind-set is to be ready to the first pitch to Tony Gwynn, the next in line for an MRI. rock, be aggressive when they tell double. With that pitch, I’m trying “When I came in, they did the me to go,” he said. to be finer in that situation and test that would indicate if they Jorge De La Rosa turned in his make a very quality pitch, espe-thought it was broke — if I longest outing of the spring cially with the bases loaded. I did-shrieked or something,” Flores Wednesday, throwing five innings n’t make that pitch. That was the said. “I passed. So, it basically and striking out six. He only got at-bat I was most upset with.” feels like a monkey bump times stronger as the game went along, 
Callaspo went 3 for 3 to raise his 100. ... Looks like just a bruise.” striking out the side in the fifth. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Looking for someone to rent the UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do If you or someone you care about 5 sites in Summit County, Ohio. 
upstairs of my home. Quiet not go it alone. has been sexually assaulted, we Must enjoy outdoor activities. Visit FOR RENT Mishawaka neighborhood, $450 a WANTED can help. www.akroncyo.org to download an 
month, includes all utilities. Call Notre Dame has many resources in application from the Careers link. For rent: Furnished 4 bedroom 250-8278 for details. WANTED, Apple iPhone SDK place to assist you. For more information, visit Notre EOE. house 5 blocks from campus. Off ——————————————— developers. Contact Dame's website: http.csap.nd.edu ——————————————— street parking, security system, gradrentals.viewwork.com daniel@miSoft.com. If you or someone you love needs ——————————————— And we make a great team. We’re central air. Nice. ——————————————— confidential support or assistance, Summer Camp like one of those classic famous Only $350.00 a month each. Call ATTN: Grad Student-faculty. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 Counselor for children teams. He’s like Mozart and I’m 574-289-4071. Spacious 2-bdrm, 2.5 bath home, or Ann Firth at 1-2685. w/disabilities. like...Mozart's friend. No. I’m like
PERSONAL 
———————————————-LR, DR, FR, Florida Room. Butch Cassidy and Michael is House 3 bed, 3 bath, new For more information, visit ND's Must have strong work ethic and be like...Mozart. You try and hurt rehab/clean, so close to ND you Fenced yard, 2-car garage. Cleaning By Maria 954-657-1898 interested in making a difference in Mozart? You’re gonna get a bullet can see campus from the yard! Security. Homes, Apartments, Offices web site: the life of a child. in your head courtesy of Butch Email alexrock@rock.com! Near ND. 262-332-0015. Affordable and Relaible http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu $10-$15.25 hr., 35 hr/wk, summer Cassidy. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— only. ——————————————— 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Thursday, March 18, 2010 page 15 
Men’s Division I Baseball Baseball America Rankings 
team previous 
1 Virginia 1 2 LSU 2 3 Texas 3 4 Georgia Tech 4 5 Florida State 6 6 Florida 5 7 TCU 7 8 Coastal Carolina 8 9 Rice 9 10 Louisville 10 11 Arizona State 12 12 Clemson 13 13 East Carolina 14 14 Arkansas 17 15 UCLA 19 16 UC Irvine 11 17 North Carolina 20 18 Mississippi 21 19 South Carolina 15 20 Miami (Fla.) 16 21 Oregon State 22 22 Kentucky 23 23 Stanford 24 24 Vanderbilt NR 25 Oklahoma NR 
Women’s Division I Tennis 
ITA Rankings  
team  previous  
1  Northwestern  1  
2  UCLA  4  
3  NOTRE DAME  3  
4  North Carolina  2  
5  Florida  6  
6  Michigan  7  
7  Duke  8  
8  California  5  
9  Baylor  9  
10  Clemson  10  
11  Stanford  14  
12  Tennessee  11  
13  Southern California  12  
14  Georgia  17  
15  Florida State  13  
16  Washington  18  
17  Arkansas  15  
18  Miami (Fla.)  16  
19  VCU  NR  
20  South Carolina  NR  
21  South Florida  20  
22  Mississippi  NR  
23  DePaul  24  
24  Yale  NR  
25  Vanderbilt  19  

NBA 


Jordan’s purchase of Bobcats approved 
Associated Press 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. — Michael Jordan became a basketball star at North Carolina. Now he’ll try to turn around the state’s money-losing NBA team by becoming the first ex-player to be a majority owner in the league. 
The NBA’s Board of Governors on Wednesday unanimously approved Jordan’s $275 million bid to buy the Charlotte Bobcats from Bob Johnson. Jordan will take over the team immediately after serving as a minority investor with the final say on basketball deci­sions since 2006. 
“Purchasing the Bobcats is the culmination of my post-playing career goal of becoming the majority owner of an NBA franchise,” Jordan said in a statement. “I am especially pleased to have the opportunity to build a winning team in my home state of North Carolina.” 
“I plan to make this fran­chise an organization that Charlotte can be proud of, and I am committed to doing all that I can to achieve this goal.” 
The six-time NBA champi­on and five-time league MVP will be charged with turning around the fortunes of the 6­year-old Bobcats, who are on pace to lose about $30 mil­lion this season because of sluggish ticket and sponsor­ship sales. 
The 47-year-old Jordan, who will assume about $150 million in debt in the deal, becomes the second black majority owner of a major pro sports team. He replaces the first in Johnson, who paid $300 million for the expansion franchise, but lost tens of millions annually and saw the value of the team decline as Charlotte fans struggled to warm to the NBA again after the Hornets left for New Orleans in 2002. 
“The best decision I made since acquiring the Bobcats was to convince my friend Michael to become an investor in the Bobcats and to appoint him as managing member of basketball opera­tions,” Johnson said in a statement. “As the new majority owner of the Bobcats, his dedication will be stronger now more than ever.” 
Commissioner David Stern predicted last week the deal would be approved easily by the league’s owners. Stern said last week that back­ground and financial checks on Jordan produced nothing that would stop the deal, and expressed optimism Jordan's iconic status in this area will boost the franchise. 
Jordan grew up in Wilmington, N.C., and led North Carolina to an NCAA title with a last-second shot before starring with the Chicago Bulls. Jordan briefly ran the Wizards basketball operations and returned as a player with Washington before being fired. 



around the dial 
NCAA Men’s Basketball 
11 Old Dominion vs. 6 Notre Dame 
12:25 p.m., CBS 

9 Wake Forest vs. 8 Texas 
9:35 p.m., CBS 
IN BRIEF 

Nats release potential 
starting outfielder Dukes 
VIERA, Fla. — Outfielder Elijah Dukes was released by the Washington Nationals on Wednesday, a sudden move with 2 1/2 weeks left in spring training. 
“I don’t know what to say. It felt a little funny,” Dukes said told The Associated Press as he packed his car at the team hotel Wednesday after­noon. “I guess I wasn’t expecting it. That's part of baseball. No big deal, no hard feelings. Just part of the game.” 
The Nationals’ release of Eljiah Dukes could give the outfielder a fresh start elsewhere. It could also give another player a chance to make an impact, writes Eric Karabell. Blog Insider 
The 25-year-old Dukes was expect­ed to be Washington's starting right fielder this season, but the Nationals announced the decision before their exhibition game at the Houston Astros. 
Kent ousted as head coach 
at Oregon after 13 seasons 
EUGENE, Ore. — Ernie Kent, the winningest coach in Oregon history, was dismissed Tuesday after 13 sea­sons with his alma mater. 
“You may find a better basketball coach, but I don’t think you’ll find anybody that has the passion and love that I have for this university,” said Kent, who had to pause for several moments to fight back his emotions. 
Oregon went 16-16 overall and 7­11 in the Pac-10 this past season, fin­ishing with a 90-74 quarterfinal loss to California in the conference tour­nament. 
Kent, 55, leaves Oregon with a 235­173 overall record. But the Ducks have slipped in the past two seasons, going 24-39 and finishing 10th and ninth, respectively, in conference play. 
Attendance has also dipped from an average of 7,922 in 2008-09 to 7,122 this past season. 
NHL hoping to adopt new 
rule against blindside hits 
TORONTO — The NHL wants to adopt a new rule against blindside hits to the head before the end of this sea­son, according to two reports Wednesday. 
The league is hoping to fast-track the proposed rule and is preparing a DVD package after a number of play­ers suffered concussions this season. The highlight package will illustrate what would, and wouldn’t, be allowed under a proposed rule change adopted by general managers at meetings in Florida last week. 
The NHL plans to circulate the high­light package to all 30 teams within the next week or so, according to the reports. 
“It’s a process that has never been done before in the season,” NHL sen­ior vice president of hockey opera­tions Colin Campbell told the Globe and Mail in a story published online early Wednesday. 

Thursday, March 18, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 16 
MLS 
Donovan makes plans to avoid possible strike 


Associated Press 
CARSON, Calif. — Landon Donovan will attend the resumption of Major League Soccer bargaining and says he might return to Everton if play­ers go on strike next week. 
Donovan had two goals and three assists in 13 games dur­ing an impressive 10-week loan from the Los Angeles Galaxy to Everton that ended Saturday, helping the Toffees beat Manchester United and Chelsea, the top two teams in the Premier League. He rejoined the Galaxy on Tuesday ahead of their March 27 opener against New England. 
“There’s nothing concrete set up,” Donovan said at a news conference Wednesday. “I think we’ve all been very clear about the possibility that I could go back if something happens. It’s crossing that bridge when we get to it, right now.” 
Negotiators for MLS and the MLS Players Union met Tuesday and talks are set to resume Thursday in Washington, D.C., More 20 players were expected after the union accepted an invitation from the league to have a large group of its mem­bers attend the session. 
Players want greater free agency and a higher percentage of guaranteed contracts. MLS owns all player contracts and restricts movement within the league when deals expire. 
“Nobody wants to go on strike if it can be avoided,” Donovan said. “We’ve made it very clear from the beginning that we’re not trying to bankrupt the league and ask for tons of mon­etary increases. But we need basic rights if we’re going to continue playing. We want rights afforded other players in other countries that we don’t have. We’re very unified on the way we think.” 
The union said last week that it will strike if an agreement is not reached by March 25, when the expansion Philadelphia Union plays the league opener at Seattle. 
The league notified the union that medical, dental and vision insurance would expire March 31 in the event of a strike, and players would have to continue coverage under the federal COBRA program. Life insurance would end on the start date of a strike, and players could covert to individual coverage. 
If and when the Galaxy start the season, Donovan said his role would not substantially change because of David Beckham’s Achilles’ tendon injury. The English midfielder was hurt Sunday while on loan to AC Milan and will be side­lined about six months, causing him to miss the World Cup. Beckham, starting the fourth season of a five-year contract with the Galaxy, was not due back until July. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Urban Meyer makes comeback at practice 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. — With a whistle around his neck and a smile on his face, Florida Gators coach Urban Meyer returned to practice Wednesday following a leave of absence that turned out to be shorter than everyone expected. 
His stay could be longer than anticipated, too. 
Although Meyer declined to divulge any details about his health, he said his return was permanent. 
“I feel fine and I feel good,” Meyer said following a rain-soaked practice that lasted nearly three hours. 
His brief break came as a result of chest pains, a hospital stay and brief resignation. He had planned to step away after Florida’s bowl game in early January, but he stuck around to hire four assistant coaches and lock up the nation’s No. 1 recruiting class. 
He was supposed to return for spring practice, which began Wednesday, but his first day back actually came two weeks ago. 
Nonetheless, he eased into things Wednesday and was con­siderably less involved in sever­al aspects of team drills. 
“I didn’t know what to expect,” he said. “Usually I’m more involved in kicking game and a little more involved in the offense. I will get back involved. I think spring time I’m usually like this. I like to let the guys coach and let everybody do their job and see what we’ve got. We’ve got four new coach­es, and I want to see them go.” 
Meyer also has a new starting quarterback (John Brantley) and several other new starters. 
Nonetheless, he believes he has enough talent to avoid a drop-off after the Gators fin­ished 13-1 and lost the 2007 Heisman Trophy winner (Time Tebow), their top three receivers (Riley Cooper, Aaron Hernandez, and David Nelson), and their best three defenders (Carlos Dunlap, Joe Haden and Brandon Spikes). 
“It is a kind of rebuilding I guess or reloading or something like that,” Meyer said. “But there’s a lot of good players still here, a lot. A lot of good ones coming in, too.” 
Citing health concerns, Meyer announced his resignation in late December. He changed his mind the following day, decid­ing instead to take an indefinite leave. He scaled back in January — he didn’t go on the road recruiting — but still worked steadily through nation­al signing day. 
He finally got away after that and took a trip to Hawaii with his wife, Shelley, but even that was merely a college coaching junket. 
It wasn’t very relaxing, either. A tsunami warning forced them to evacuate their hotel and get to higher ground. 

page 17 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 18, 2010 page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, March 18, 2010 
MLB 
Rangers manager apologizes 
Associated Press 
SURPRISE, Ariz. — Texas Rangers manager Ron Washington admitted he made a “huge mistake” when he used cocaine and failed a Major League Baseball drug test last season. 
In his first public acknowledg­ment, Washington apologized Wednesday for his behavior, eight months after he told Rangers president Nolan Ryan, who turned down the manag­er’s offer to resign. 
“I made a huge mistake and it almost caused me to lose every­thing I have worked for all of my life,” Washington said at a news conference Wednesday. “I am not here to make excuses. There are none.” 
Washington said he used cocaine only once and called it “stupid” and “shameful.” 
The failed test first was reported by SI.com. 
Washington said he told the commissioner’s office and Rangers officials about using cocaine before he had a routine drug test. 
“He came forward and said he would resign,” Ryan said. “He understood the conse­quences. We had a lot of discus­sions and a lot of soul-search­ing on it.” 
“He stood up to it. We felt like he was sincere and forthright,” he said. “We are very disap­pointed by this. We are upset we were put in this position.” 
Washington met with his players earlier in the day and told them about testing positive in July. 
“He was very emotional, you could tell that he’s a broken man from this one bad choice he made,” Texas star Josh Hamilton said. 
Hamilton has a long history of drug abuse and was suspended for the 2004 season when he was in the minors for Tampa Bay. The All-Star outfielder is the most prominent player in the last decade to be disciplined for a so-called recreational drug. 
Hamilton has been outspoken about his crack cocaine habit. He said there were no parallels between his problems and Washington’s admission of one­time use. 
“I was addicted to drugs. All I cared about was getting more and using more drugs. I didn’t care who I hurt,” Hamilton said. “This was something of a weak moment, a decision of choice ... Our stories are noth­ing alike. The fact is he made a mistake. He learned from it very quickly. I made a mistake a few too many times and didn’t learn from it.” 
Hamilton said he could understand how a 57-year-old man could use the drug only once. 
“You either like it or you don’t like it. Either you do it once or you do it more than once,” Hamilton said. “That’s the way it is. I know people from my past that have done it once with me and have not liked, have not cared for it.” 
Six-time All-Star Michael Young said his Texas team­mates were behind their man­ager. 


Thursday, March 18, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
NBA 

Jackson comes alive in second half for Bobcats 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. — Stephen Jackson scored 18 of his 20 points in the second half and Charlotte rallied to beat the Oklahoma City Thunder 100-92 on Wednesday night to give Michael Jordan a victory in his first game as Bobcats majority owner. 
Hours after the NBA’s Board of Governors approved Jordan’s $275 million purchase, he watched his team stage a dra­matic recovery from a horrible start. The comeback from a 19­point, second-quarter deficit matched the largest in franchise history. 
Stephen Graham matched a career high with 19 points filling in for the injured Gerald Wallace, and the Bobcats won for the sev­enth time in eight games. 
Kevin Durant had 26 points and 10 rebounds, but was 9 of 26 from the field for the Thunder, whose five-game winning streak was snapped. 
Jeff Green had 17 points, and Russell Westbrook added 15 points and 10 assists, but the Thunder became undone after dominating much of the first two quarters to lose for only the fourth time in 21 games. 
While the loss prevented the Thunder from clinching a win­ning record and putting heat on Utah for the fourth seed in the West, the victory helped the Bobcats maintain sixth place in the Eastern Conference. 
Jackson’s 3-pointer with 4:48 left put Charlotte ahead 89-85 and the Thunder never threat­ened again as the Bobcats got contributions from many. 
Raymond Felton had 17 points and seven assists, Boris Diaw added 13 points, and rookie Derrick Brown scored 11 points to make a smiling Jordan 1-0 since becoming the first former player to be a majority owner. 
The new ownership regime meant few immediate changes, although Bobcats coach Larry Brown joked before the game that at least he was “still work­ing” after Tuesday’s loss to strug­gling Indiana. He added that Jordan “picked a tough night to be his first night as owner” with the Bobcats facing the surging Thunder. 



page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, March 18, 2010 
Valdivia 
continued from page 24 
fields, paces the Broncos with a .421 batting average to go along with three home runs and two triples. 
Notre Dame’s recent success has not gone unnoticed. Valdivia was named Big East Pitcher of the Week while jun­ior outfielder Sadie Pitzenberger earned Player of the Week honors, giving the Irish the sweep of the weekly awards, the first-ever sweep by a pair of teammates. 
“Pitching has been really good,” Ganeff said. “Jody Valdivia has been doing a great job leading the team in the circle. She has really taken to being the one to get it done for us. Our freshmen have really been getting bet­ter with each outing. They are learning how to compete at this level and are doing a great job.” 

Pitzenberger hit .476 while safely making it to base in all six games she played in over break. She has proved herself to be a strong leadoff hitter for the Irish and has a team-best hitting streak of 16 games. Her performance as a leadoff hitter has included three triples, a double, a hit­by-pitch and one groundout. 
However, Pitzenberger has not been Notre Dame’s only powerful presence at the plate. 
“Offensively we have contin­ued to be consistent at the plate,” Ganeff said. “We are getting runners on base and coming up with the key hits that are scoring runs.” 
The Notre Dame defense has been holding up their end of the deal, as shown by their overall record and defeat of some of the top national teams, including Ohio State. Overall, the Irish have main­tained a high level of play. 
“Defensively we have been playing really well and creat­ing minimal errors on defense,” Ganeff said. “This is an area we will continue to enhance every single day. We need to continue to be aggres­sive and smooth on defense so we can ensure that we don’t just give the opponent an opportunity to score.” 
Notre Dame looks to contin­ue its winning streak when it faces Western Michigan at 5 
p.m. in Kalamazoo. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
NFL 

Tebow impresses at Pro Day 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. — Tim Tebow took a significant step Wednesday in the slow, methodical process of con­vincing teams that he’s worth drafting with a relatively high pick in April’s NFL draft. 
Joe Haden did the same thing in 4.39 seconds. 
Tebow and Haden, the star quarterback and cornerback of the University of Florida, both put on impressive dis­plays at the school’s annual pro day for NFL scouts and coaches. Both made alter­ations in areas that have been questioned in recent days and reassured those teams inter­ested in drafting them that they’re good bets. 

For Tebow, the key to improving his draft status has been working hard to improve his previously elongated throwing motion, which had been greatly criticized. 
“People said to me, ‘Why not wait until you get drafted to make these changes?’” said Tebow, the 2007 Heisman Trophy winner and two-time national champion. “I’m not a person who wants to wait around to fix something. I want to show that I’m going to listen to people and make changes and work on things. That I’m coachable and not be the type of person who says that my way is the only way.” 
Tebow had three primary problems in college. First, he often held the ball too low. Second, he looped his arm back and low as he went through his motion. Third, his stride was too long as he threw. 

That trifecta made for a brutally long delivery for Tebow, who still has issues just reading complicated defenses. 
On Wednesday, Tebow unveiled his improved deliv­ery, which came from working with former NFL assistant coach and quarterback guru Zeke Bratkowski. The motion was decidedly faster with Tebow keeping the ball high from the start and eliminating the loop. 

MEN’S TENNIS 
Irish head to Alabama to play nation’s best 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will face tough compe­tition this weekend as they travel to Montgomery, Ala. for the Blue Gray National Classic. The invita­tional features a number of peren­nial powerhouses, including Arizona, No. 15 Texas Tech and No. 20 Oklahoma. 
“We obviously want to do as well as we can,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “We want to win the tournament. We feel we can be competitive with any of the teams in the draw.” 
The Irish will take on Middle Tennessee State in the opening round and then face the winner of No. 22 Fresno State and Boise State. If the Irish fail to advance, there will be a consolation draw for the matches, allowing each team to play a minimum of three rounds in the tournament. 
Sophomore Casey Watt has come on especially strong for the Irish this season at the No. 1 sin­gles position. Watt is currently ranked No. 19 in the country. 
“Casey has a top-20 ranking because he beat several of the country’s better players in the Midwest Regionals, and he deserves it,” Bayliss said. “Now he will become a target rather than a hunter and we will see how he handles it, as plenty of players have trouble with expectations. It is good that we have four players in college tennis’s top 100, and I hope that we will have that kind of balance this year.” 
The Irish will also turn to their doubles teams to help get on the board early. 
“We made a switch at doubles,” Bayliss said. “[Junior Stephen] Havens and Watt are now togeth­er as well as [junior Tyler] Davis, and [sophomore Niall] Fitzgerald. We are coming off our best match of the year from last Sunday when we beat Florida State. We are adjusting to being outdoors. We have made a smooth transition but are still working to maintain our patience.” 
Junior David Anderson and sophomore Sam Keeton played big roles for the Irish last weekend and will likely do the same in Alabama. Anderson put the Irish in great position by winning a crit­ical third set to bring the score to 3-3 against the Seminoles. Bayliss said Keeton responded with poise. 
“[Keeton] handled the pressure very well, breaking serve three consecutive times to clinch,” Bayliss said. “He played aggres­sively the entire match and was able to finish at the net often.” 
The Irish will need complete performances from both the sin­gles and doubles teams as they compete against the nation’s best. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 


Thursday, March 18, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, March 18, 2010 
Monarchs 
continued from page 24 
past six seasons. 
The CAA has a history of teams creating upsets in the tournament, notably Virginia Commonwealth defeating Duke in 2007 and George Mason making a his­toric run to the Final Four in 2006. 
One of the few weaknesses 
of this Old Dominion 

squad is their “Especially as a 
shooting from senior, it’s a great the free-throw 
feeling to see your
line, where the 

team has con-name pop up on the 
verted just 64 board on Selection percent of its 
Sunday.” 
opportunities. 

After a sea­son missing the Luke Harangody tournament, senior forward 
senior forward Luke Harangody said he was thrilled to return to March Madness. 
“Especially as a senior, it’s a great feeling to see your name pop up on the board on Selection Sunday. It’s an amazing feeling. I couldn’t be happier,” Harangody said. “For the seniors on this team, for us to go out with three out of four NCAA Tournaments, that's tremen­dous.” 
Senior guard Ben 
Martin 
continued from page 24 
“He’s a senior and I think he plays with a lot of confi ­dence,” Irish coach Dave Schrage said. “It’s kind of funny, out of all our hitters hitting in the cage live, he was probably struggling the most. He’ll tell you, his first hit was a Hansbrough said the team’s patient offensive strategy of waiting for the shot clock to run down before creating shots has been effective for the team throughout the win streak. 

“We’ve been controlling the ball, making great deci­sions. It’s almost like we’re comparing our decision making to theirs in a way, with us leading the country in assists to turnover, I think that gives us the advan ­
tage,” Hansbrough said. “With the decision makers we have on the team and the people that have the ability to make shots like we do.” 
If the Irish are able to 

make it past the Monarchs, they will advance to play the winner of Baylor and Sam Houston State on Saturday. The No. 3 seeded Bears could prove a tough test should both teams meet for the chance to move on to the Sweet 16. 
Tip-off in New Orleans will be at 12:25 p.m., with televi­sion coverage on CBS. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
swinging “Just knowing this is opening day. bunt, but it’s my last year of college “I’ve been 
a base hit, platooning 
baseball, I’m just 
and as a hit-the last two ter, that gives trying to go out there years, so I you confi-and have fun.” wasn’t play­dence.” ing everyday. 
Hovering at In that for ­
Casey Martin 
the .500 mark mat I think it with a 7-8 senior frst baseman was hard to 
are or where they’re going. It’s huge when you can give your starter some support early in the game.” 
Although not completely unexpected, the extent of Martin’s offensive explosion has taken many by surprise, including opposing pitchers. Martin has spent the last two seasons in and out of the starting lineup and was com­peting for the starting job up until 
record, Notre Dame has struggled to find the consistency it had hoped for leading into con­ference play next week. The Irish have yet to pull off a winning streak since they opened the season with a road sweep. 
Yet in his first full season as a starter, Martin’s contri­butions have had an immedi­ate impact. Needing a win to advance to the title game of the Irish Baseball Classic, Martin jacked a three-run homerun in the first inning to give the Irish a lead they would not relinquish. 
“It’s what we try to do,” Martin said. “We’ve strug­gled a bit this year with guys not knowing what their roles get comfort­
able for long. 

Now that I can get out there and get into a rhythm, it just helps.” 
Although Martin’s future is still uncertain, his immedi­ate success will continue to have a tremendous impact on the Irish this season. The senior is taking his success in stride and hopes to finish the year on his own terms. 
“Just knowing this is my last year of college baseball, I’m just trying to go out there and have fun,” Martin said. “I don’t know if I’ll get drafted or not, but I can still go out and make the most of my last year.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

Safe 
continued from page 24 
their double-overtime loss at Louisville on Feb. 17 dropped the Irish to 6-8 in the Big East, it looked unlikely Notre Dame could reach the 9-9 record that Irish coach Mike Brey tradi­tionally sets as the bar for NCAA considerations. Considering the opponents — Pittsburgh, Georgetown, Connecticut and Marquette — it would have taken an incredibly improbable run for a team that hadn’t won three straight Big East games all season. 
Sure enough, the Irish won six in a row — four against tournament teams — and jumped all the way to a No. 6 seed. 
I’ll admit I declared this team dead right after the Louisville loss, and I didn’t even watch the upset over Pittsburgh a week later — give me a break, it was midterms week. 
But after the Irish went on the road and pulled another upset at Georgetown the next Friday, I couldn’t help but feel like something special was going to happen. I had never seen a Notre Dame team play with the discipline and patience it did in that game, and hearing Brey talk about his team’s new approach, it sounded like the Irish were going to stick with it 
— with or without Harangody. 
Connecticut turned out to be the worst team (by final record) during the six-game stretch, but Notre Dame’s March 3 vic­tory over the Huskies was the most impressive. 
With the student section reju­venated and NCAA Tournament hopes revived, the Irish didn’t disappoint despite falling behind by double digits in the first half. 
Everything seemed to go right for Notre Dame in the earlier victories over Pittsburgh and Georgetown, but it was clear from the get-go the Connecticut game wouldn’t be pretty. In the past, the Irish might have fold­ed, but they kept grinding away, held the Huskies to 35 percent shooting and pulled out a huge victory. 

These are the kind of games teams need to win to post a sustained NCAA run, and we saw the same kind of game from the Irish in their Big East semifinal loss to West Virginia. Notre Dame had no business being in that game at the end 
— it couldn’t defend the Mountaineers’ De’Sean Butler, and Ben Hansbrough was the only Notre Dame player who could get anything going offen­sively. I kept waiting for the Irish to disappear down the stretch, but they kept plugging away, to the point that Tory Jackson had a decent look at a game-winning shot. 
From watching the NCAA Tournament, you know teams that make deep runs don’t often have a smooth ride the whole way. But judging from their play in recent weeks, the Irish have what it takes to han­dle the adversity they’ll have to conquer if they want to advance out of New Orleans this weekend. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  23  
24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  31  32  
33  34  35  36  37  
38  39  40  41  
42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  52  53  
54  55  56  57  58  59  
60  61  62  63  
64  65  66  
67  68  69  

Tuesday, March 16, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 

Across 33DH's often have 1 Spherical manybeginning? 36First responder, 5 1960s trip taker for short 10Third-place 37Moon of Jupiter presidential 38Beat in a race
candidate of 41Galore 
1920 who ran his campaign 42Lock from jail 43Classic 
Mercedes14 Handle user roadsters
15Character in all 44Song from six “Star Wars” “Mamma Mia!” films, informally 45See 62-Down 
16Shade at the 49Article in the beach? German constitution
17 2009 Golden 
Globe winner for 50He wrote lyrics, “Recount” by George!51Ambassador of 
18 See 62-Down old autodom 20 Tropical trees 54Pac-10 sch. 
22 Hoot 
56H. Ross Perot's 23 Pub pour alma mater: 24 What unicorns Abbr. 
live in 
58Yens 25___ Hunter, 60See 62-Down 
leader of rock's 63Course 
Mott the Hoople 
component26Kind of project 64Small rugs 
28See 62-Down 65One-celler 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


66Eye67___-eyed68Ebbs 69Capital of Valais 
Down 
1 “___ Live,” 1992multiplatinumalbum 
2 Letter-shapedbridge support 
3 It's sometimes given toprisoners
4 Florid 5 Problems in synchronization6 “Maid of Athens, ___ We Part” (Byron poem) 
7 Draw 
8 Twists in a trattoria 
9 Fluctuate 
10Bit 
11 Some 
memorization for a physics test
12Knot 
13Stuff in stuffing,often 
19Home for “A Prairie Home Companion” 
21Measure of resistance 
25“She Believes ___” (KennyRogers hit)
27Sartre's “L'___ et le Néant” 
29Insurance giant
30Brand whose ads once featured Michael Jackson 
31Vision: Prefix 
32Bill blockers 
33I.C.U. locale 

WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

Puzzle by Peter A. Collins  
34 Essen's region 35 Challenged 39 Mezza ___ 40 Masseuse's offering41 Utah ski resort 43 Crusader's foe 46 Nadirs 47 Mich. neighbor 48 Bowl gamebowlful, maybe  52 Japanese chess 53 Cry at a canyon 54 Venus de Milo knock-offs? 55 Caulk 57 Salad alternative 58 Much precedent? 59 Eyed 61 Milk  62 Nickname of the man (born2/12/1809) whogave theaddress at 18A,issued the 28A/45A, was the first elected president of the60A Party, andwhose name can be found in this puzzle's main diagonal  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 



JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Thursday, March 18, 2010 page 24 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Win streak propels Irish to New Orleans 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Senior Sports Writer 
A No. 6 seed in the NCAA Tournament seemed impossi­ble just a month ago. But today the streaking Irish will open as a favorite in their 
opening round matchup against No. 11 seed Old Dominion. 
A six-game win streak to conclude their regular season and to begin the Big East Tournament made Notre Dame a lock to make their third NCAA Tournament in four seasons. And while Notre Dame was surely happy to play its way into a higher seeding than anyone would have expected, it will face a tough test against the Monarchs, the regular season and tournament champions in the Colonial Athletic Association. 
“I think it’s a heck of an honor. We’ve been caught up in the midst of the run to fin­ish the season,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “Obviously, we feel it’s a very good run. It’s better than we thought inside the locker room to be rewarded with a six seed, very powerful.” 
Placed in the South Region and playing their first game in New Orleans, the Irish will be tested by an experienced 

Time to Dance 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

Junior forward Tim Abromaitis dunks it home during Notre Dame’s 58-50 victory over Connecticut on Mar. 3. Abromaitis and the Irish play Old Dominion today at 12:25. 
and defensive-minded Old ages 14.6 points and 4.9 already upset one Big East Dominion team. While the rebounds per game. At 6-power this season, beating Monarchs have struggled foot-10 and 250 pounds, Lee Georgetown on the road in shooting from the perimeter, will also test the Irish on the December. The Monarchs and hitting 3-pointers at only a defensive end, where the coach Blaine Taylor also have 31-percent rate, they’ve held Monarchs have excelled all tournament experience, and 18 of their opponents to year. will be playing in their third under 60 points on the year. Brey and the Irish will not NCAA Tournament in the 
Old Dominion is led by for-be underestimating Old 
see MONARCHS/page 22

ward Gerald Lee, who aver-Dominion, a team that has 
New-look Irish a safe bet in opening round 
It’s always tough to handicap the NCAA Tournament chances of “your” team, and I’ve espe­cially never been good at sepa­rating what I hope will happen from what I think will happen. 
So, natu­rally, I’m heading to New Orleans this weekend with the mindset Matt Gamber 

that the 
Irish will advance to 
Editor-in-Chief 
the Sweet 
16. With the way Notre Dame has played over the last few weeks, though, it doesn’t feel like I’m making the homer pick. 
Watching this Irish team, you can’t help but see a gutsy group that clawed its way back into the NCAA Tournament by playing its best basketball without its best player — and then showed its versatility by reintegrating that player back into the lineup when he was ready. 
A month ago, it looked like Notre Dame had a better shot at a No. 6 seed in the NIT than in the NCAA Tournament. After 
see SAFE/page 22 


BASEBALL 

Senior Martin leads offense 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
The art of hitting can take years, even decades to per­fect. Plate discipline, a consis­tent approach and balance can even elude professionals from time to time. But if the season ended today, Casey Martin could make a pretty good case for having mas­tered his craft. 
Leading the team in nearly every offensive category, Martin has emerged as the Notre Dame’s most dangerous threat at the plate. Martin has put together an impressive midseason résumé that fea­tures a .434 batting average, three home runs and 16 RBIs. 
see MARTIN/page 22 


JULIE HERDER/The Observer Senior frst baseman Casey Martin drives the ball during a game against UIC on April 28, 2009. 
ND SOFTBALL 
Streaking Irish travel to Western Michigan 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Coming off an 8-1 Spring Break trip to California, the Irish are back on the road today to face the Broncos of Western Michigan. 
Notre Dame (16-5) ended its road trip Sunday with a 3­0 defeat over Purdue in a non-conference match at the Long Beach Invite to cap a successful trip. They face a Broncos team struggling to find the win column. 
“It was a great stretch for us over the past 10 days on our Spring Break road trip to Southern California,” Irish assistant coach Kris Ganeff said. “The team stepped it up in all areas including offense, defense and in the circle for us. We had some nice wins over good pro­grams and really created a sense of confidence for this team.” 
Junior pitcher Jody Valdivia (12-2) picked up her 11th straight win as she pitched a one-hitter, complete with nine strikeouts. Seven of those came in the first three innings. 
Valdivia will lead the effort from the circle against Western Michigan (5-7). Utility fielder Lexi Jager, a solid hitter with power to all 
see VALDIVIA/page 20 






