the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Jenkins: ND responsible for death 
Univ. President sends letter to campus community, announces external investigation review 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
University President Fr. John Jenkins took responsibility for the death of junior Declan Sullivan in an open letter to the Notre Dame community Friday.  
“We are conducting an inves­tigation and we must be careful not to pre-judge its results, but I will say this: Declan Sullivan was entrusted to our care, and we failed to keep him safe,” Jenkins said in the letter. “We at Notre Dame — and ultimate­ly I, as President — are respon­sible. Words cannot express our sorrow to the Sullivan family and to all involved.” 
Sullivan, a videographer for the football team, died on Oct. 27 after the hydraulic scissor lift from which he was filming football practice fell. 
Students, faculty and staff received the letter, which was also issued as a press release, in an e-mail Friday afternoon. 
In the letter, Jenkins announced the appointment of Peter Likins, former University of Arizona president, to lead an external review of Notre Dame’s investigation into Sullivan’s death. 
Likins is also former president of Lehigh University, according to a University press release issued Friday about the exter­nal review. In addition to other roles in higher education, he has served as provost at Columbia University, where he was a professor and dean at the School of Engineering and Applied Science. 


“In selecting someone to review our investigation, I sought an individual experi­enced in higher education, with an impeccable reputation for integrity, intellect and inde­pendence,” Jenkins said. “In Dr. Likins, we are fortunate to have just such a man.” 
The University’s internal investigation is already under­way and involves examining the accident from a variety of per­spectives, the letter stated. 
“I am committed to determin­ing why this accident happened and to ensuring the safety of our students,” Jenkins said. 
Jenkins did not provide a timeline for releasing results of the investigation and review, but said the University would make the results public when they became available. 
“Investigations and external reviews such as this take time, but I assure you that, when complete, we will issue a public report on the outcome, includ­ing information on the events of the afternoon of Oct. 27, any institutional ramifications and recommendations for safety policies in the future,” Jenkins said. 
see JENKINS/page 5 


TheWhite Panda replaces Adams 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 

The White Panda took the stage at Legends Saturday night with MacBooks and masks to perform for Notre Dame students after a per­formance from rapper Sam Adams was canceled by the University. 
University spokesperson Dennis Brown said Adams’ performance was canceled after he failed to pass a securi­ty check from the University. 
“Our security check revealed that the performer was arrest­ed on September 10 for incit­ing a riot and disorderly con­duct,” Brown said. “The idea of having a performer on campus who recently was arrested for inciting a riot is unacceptable. As a result, we rescinded the offer.” 
The Student Union Board (SUB) organized the alternative concert in five days. 
SUB director Julia Sutton said events like The White Panda concert usually involve a month of planning. 
see PANDA/page 4 



Game on for ND, SMC students 
ND junior takes on field in ‘Jeopardy!’ College Championship 

By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
This Notre Dame junior will be competing on the Jeopardy! College Championship. 
Who is Olivia Colangelo? 
Tonight Colangelo, a junior engi­neering major from McGlinn Hall, will appear on the popular televi­sion quiz show for its college com­petition. 
Colangelo taped the show on Oct. 18 and 19 in Culver City, Calif. While taping is completed, she was not allowed to disclose the results of the competition. 
see JEOPARDY/page 4 




SaintMary’ssophomore competes,winskayakon ‘The Price is Right’ 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 

Cara O’Connor-Combee was the next contestant on “The Price Is Right.” 
The Saint Mary’s sopho ­more participated in the game show and won a kayak in an episode that aired on Sept. 21. 
“I won a kayak,” she said. “I don’t know, I just think it’s more of a joke now just because it was probably the most embarrassing experi­ence of my life because I had 
see PRICE/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Track and field team hosts ‘Donut Run’ page 3  Conan comes to TBS page 8  Men’s soccer advances in tournament page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, November 8, 2010 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 

SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Amanda Gray Sports 
Sam Stryker Chris Masaud Nicole Toczauer Matthew Robison Graphics Joe Wirth 
Melissa Kaduck Scene Photo Maija Gustin Sarah O’Connor Viewpoint Ren Brauweiler 

CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Q: 
Who is your favorite musician? Alex: New Pornographers. They’re a Canadian band. 

Q: 
What is your dream vacation? Alex: A nice week of skiing in the alps with a nice girl. Skiing in the day, hot chocolate at night. 


Q: 
What was your favorite middle school fad? Alex: Pogs. You tried to flip them into cups, those were a great classic. 

Q: 
Who is your favorite 


teletubbie and why? Alex: Po because of his line in the theme song. You’re last, but you’re still number one in my book! 

Alex Eide 
freshman Duncan 


GRANT TOBIN/The Observer Notre Dame rowers derig and load their boats late Thursday night in preparation for the Head of the Occoquan race in Fairfax, VA, Saturday. The team took first in the Collegiate 8+, Collegiate Novice 8+ and Collegiate 4+ races. 
OFFBEAT 

Woman attempts to sell infant grandson 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. 
— A Florida woman and her boyfriend have been charged with trying to sell her infant grandson for $30,000. 
Florida Department of Law Enforcement agents arrested 45-year-old Patty Bigbee and 42-year-old Lawrence Works on Friday in Daytona Beach after they met with an agent posing as a buyer. Both were charged with illegal sale or surrender of a child, and Bigbee was also charged with communica­tion fraud. 
FDLE agent Wayne Ivey said an investigation began last month after an inform-
Know someone chill for Monday’s Icebreaker? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 

Today from 12:15 to 1:15 
p.m. a Tax Assstance Program Information Session for inter­national students will be held in the LaFortune Student Center Montgomery Auditorium. This meeting will discuss the services the Tax Assistance Program (TAP) offers international students as well as important federal and state income tax information. 
Zygmnut G. Barnaski, Serena Professor of Italian at the Unversity of Cambridge and 2010 Albert J. and Helen 
M. Ravarino Distinguished Visiting Professor at Notre Dame, will present “The Past, Present and Future of Italian Studies” today at 4:30 p.m. This lecture held in the Special Collections (Room 102) at the Hesburgh Library, is free and open to the public. 
The Mendoza College of Business is enrolling for the program offered by Executive Education. Class meetings are held for 10 evenings in the fall and 10 evening in the spring in Room 161 of the Mendoza College of Business from 5:30 to 8:30 p.m. Pre-registration is required. 
Tomorrow from 6 to 8:30 
p.m. the Notre Dame Fund to Protect Human life will hold 
Dinner and Discussion: Bread of Life in the Oak Room at South Dining Hall. To open this discussion on the begin­ning of life ethical issues, Father Tim Scully will offer the opening address at the beginning of dinner. Register for free by e-mailing ethics2@nd.edu. Space is limit­ed. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
thursday friday 

ant told authorities the woman was trying to sell the baby. Authorities say the woman originally wanted $75,000 but was talked down to $30,000. 
The child’s mother is currently incarcerated on unrelated charges. 
The infant has been turned over to child wel­fare officials. 
Authorities said they did-n’t know if Bigbee or Works had an attorney. 
Security fears disguises on flights 
HALIFAX, Nova Scotia — 
U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said Saturday that the case of a young Chinese man who boarded a flight to Canada elaborately dis­guised as an elderly white male raises concerns about a security breach that terrorists might exploit. 
Authorities have not sug­gested any terrorist link to the case of the man who boarded the Air Canada flight in Hong Kong on Oct. 29 wearing a remarkably detailed silicone mask to make him look like an eld­erly man. An internal intelligence alert from the Canadian Border Services Agency shows before-and­after photos, and says the man removed the mask in a washroom mid-flight. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight tuesday wednesday 


Monday, November 8, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Junior joins national Council 

By BRIDGET MEADE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s junior Catherine Cleary said she felt honored when she was appointed to the National Student Advisory Council for the American Association of University Women (AAUW). 
The council, which consists of college women ranging in age from sophomores to graduate students, works with the AAUW staff to provide a direct link to the program by voicing student needs and ideas, Cleary said. 
“AAUW is reputable organi­zation, and there were many qualified applicants,” Cleary said. 
Members are responsible for updating the program’s blog, monthly conference calls with the council, promoting AAUW’s National Conference for College Women Student Leaders and collaborating with the local AAUW branch in their area. 
Cleary said that she is eager to carry out the mission of AAUW on Saint Mary’s campus. 
“AAUW is a fantastic organi­zation with a purpose that I feel very strongly about,” she said. “By being a part of it, I can bring the programs and a fresh perspective to our cam­pus.” 
Cleary, a self-designed Women’s Studies major, said she learned about the program from a former Saint Mary’s stu­dent previously on the Council. She said she hopes to use her position on the council to bring awareness to the discrimina­tion of women in higher educa­tion and the workplace. 
Cleary recently attended the Council’s retreat in Washington, D.C., where she met other members of board. 

“The council has a great range of ages, experience and culture,” she said. “I am both excited and grateful to have been given the chance to serve with the women.” 
Cleary, who is involved in numerous campus organiza­tions ranging from Campus Ministry to Saint Mary’s Straight and Gay Alliance, was also the recipient of the Office for Civic and Social Engagement’s Sister Christine Healy Aware for Service with Women award. 
“My goal has always been to be an advocate for women, and this program is a fantastic way to do that,” Cleary said. 
Contact Bridget Meade at bmeade01@saintmarys.edu 

Runners eat to victory for relay race fundraiser 
While some teams were 
By ANNA BOARINI 

there for fun, others were 
News Writer 

there to support Riley and run a competitive race. 
Few would think to combine Team Deca, made up of the donuts and a relay race, but decathletes on the track that is exactly what happened team, won the relay. They on South Quad Sunday. came out strong and at one 
The track and field team point were almost a minute held the Riley Donut Run and a half ahead of the rest Sunday as a fundraiser for of the competition. The sec-Riley Children’s Hospital. ond place finisher was the 
“We came up with the idea team No Shirts, No Shoes, No 
b a s e d  o f  a  S e r v i c e ,  w h o  
fundraiser held  are  all jumpers  
a t  N C  S t a t e , ”  o n  t h e  t r a c k  
j u n i o r D o u g Onuscheck, the event organiz­ “I didn’t even have to worry about trying to  team. Rounding o u t t h e t o p three was Team  
er said. “There t h e y r u n t w o m i l e s , e a t a d o z e n d o n u t s  keep up, everyone was so much faster. It was just a really fun  G r y f f i n d o r , made up of two members of the t r a c k t e a m , a  
a n d  r u n  t w o  event.”  student manag­ 
m o r e  m i l e s .  er  and  a  regu- 
R i s k m a n a g e -ment wouldn’t  Chrissy Finkel  lar student. I n t h e e n d ,  
let  us  do that,  sophomore  w h a t  r e a l l y  

so we short ­ened the run.” 

The donut run was a relay race where teams of four ran the length of South Quad, ate three donuts and ran back. The first team to have every­one finish won. 
“The first race is more of a fun run,” Onuscheck said. “The second race is more exciting and competitive.” 
Not all the participants were track team members or even runners. Some just decided to form teams because they thought it sounded like a good time or because the money was going to charity. 
“We joined at the last minute. We were just drawn into the event,” sophomore Chrissy Finkel said. 
Finkel and her team, Jump for Children, were excited to have a good time while rais­ing money for charity. They were a last minute entry; one of their runners even wore jeans. 
“I didn’t even have to worry about trying to keep up, everyone was so much faster,” Finkel said. “It was just a really fun event.” 
helped Team 
Deca clinch 
their victory 
was their donut eating strategy, especially that of senior Justin Schneider. 
“First I squished all three donuts into one big ball which I dunked in water. Then I squeezed the water 
out of the donuts into my mouth, which got rid of the sugar,” Schneider said. 
Other runners tried to shove all three donuts into their mouth at once. Some ate each one separately, but everyone had a great time comparing their eating strat­egy. 
This is the first year for the event and the track team was just trying to see how excited people would get before they set any goals for fundraising. 
“We aren’t sure how much we’ve made yet, we’re just kind rolling with it and seeing how it ends up,” Onuscheck said. 
Overall, the event was deemed a success, Onuscheck said. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

Professor named editor of journal 
Special to The Observer 

Joan F. Brennecke, Keating-Crawford professor of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering and director of the University of Notre Dame Energy Center, has been appointed editor of the American Chemical Society’s (ACS) Journal of Chemical & Engineering Data. 
The Journal of Chemical & Engineering Data is a monthly publication that reports on experimental, evaluated and predicted data on the physical, thermodynamic and transport properties of well-defined materials including complex mixtures of known composi­tions and systems of environ­mental and biochemical inter­est. 
Internationally known for her research in the development of solvents, specifically supercriti­cal fluids and ionic liquids, Brennecke’s research interests include supercritical fluid tech­nology, ionic liquids, thermody­namics, environmentally benign chemical processing, and car­bon dioxide separation, storage and usage. 
Throughout her career, Brennecke has received numer­ous awards for her research, as well as for her contributions in the classroom. She is the recipi­ent of the Ernest Orlando Lawrence Award from the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) for her exceptional contribu­tions in research and develop­ment supporting DOE in its mis­sion to advance the national, economic and energy security of the U.S. She also was select­ed as the 2008 Julius Stieglitz Lecturer Award by ACS. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 8, 2010 
Panda 
continued from page 1 
“With more time we probably would have done more in fun incentives like passing out glow sticks but otherwise we really nailed the event for the timeline we had,” Sutton said. “I would not have changed anything about it.” 
SUB co-director of programming Marie Wicht said The White Panda was high on the list of preferences for SUB programmers and were contacted as soon as they found out about the cancellation last Friday. 
“We were in the process of book­ing Sam Adams for the November 6 Legends date when it came to our attention that he had been arrested just about a month ago at a show at Kansas State,” Wicht said. “As soon as [the planners] became aware of Sam Adam’s arrest, they were on alert double-checking The White Panda’s tour dates and availability while our advisor Amy Geist was in close contact with their agent sorting out details in case the need arose.” 
When The White Panda con­firmed their performance, SUB immediately printed posters and spread the word about the show. 
“Some SUB members even wore panda hats around campus to help us advertise,” Wicht said. 

Sutton said the turnout proved the power of fast marketing through posters, Facebook invita­tions and statuses, Twitter and other advertising around campus. 
“The turnout was phenomenal,” Wicht said. “There was a line out the door the entire night and we were at building capacity by the time The White Panda began their performance.” 
Freshman Romel Nicholas said the change from Sam Adams to The White Panda did not disap­point him. 
“The show was awesome,” Nicholas said. “Fans of The White Panda really congregated in the middle, and there was a good line­up of music.” 
Nicholas said the performance fit the venue well. 
“The White Panda was an appropriate choice for Legends,” Nicholas said. “The show let the dance floor and the space inside be fully utilized. Mix-ups are not too far of a stretch from DJs, and DJs are what Legends does anyway.” 
Sophomores Laurel Fischer and Aurora Kareh had heard of The White Panda before the group came to Notre Dame and were excited for the show. 
“The show was good but not that different from listening to The White Panda on a computer,” Fischer said. 
The performance felt more like a typical night at Legends with a DJ than a concert, Fischer said. 
“Notre Dame needs to know Legends is a bad venue for a per­formance,” Kareh said. “If Sam Adams had performed we would not have been able to see anything from his show.” 
Other performance venues need to be considered for bigger shows to be appreciated on campus, Kareh said. 
Sophomore Chris Podgorski said he would have chosen to see The White Panda rather than a per­formance from Sam Adams. 
“I feel like half the people there were fans of The White Panda and the other half did not know what to expect when they went into Legends,” Podgorski said. “But I think everyone had fun.” 
Podgorski said highlights of the night were performances of “Pop Bottles Baby,” “What You Know About Little Secrets” and “How We Remember” from The White Panda’s lineup. 
While Sam Adams’ higher pro­file might have drawn more fans from the student body, Saturday’s show was successful, Podgorski said. 
“If last night’s show and turnout was any indication, I do not think the cancellation of Sam Adams had any negative impact on The White Panda’s show,” Wicht said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 



Jeopardy 
continued from page 1 
“It was actually not as nerve-wracking as I expected,” Colangelo said. “They have people who make sure you are not nervous and are having fun on television. They talk to you about things that are not Jeopardy! It did not feel like you were taping for a large studio audi­ence.” 
Colangelo said her time spent as a student at Notre Dame had equipped her with the skills neces­sary for the experience of being on a televised game show. 
“I think for me, Notre Dame helped prepare me with coming here as a freshman. I was the only person from my high school which made me talk to people I did not know,” she said. “I think this helped in the auditions and when I got there.” 
She said one of the most reward­ing aspects of her time on Jeopardy! was her fellow college-aged contest­ants. 
“You are put in a room with 15 other people, and the producer commented on how we hit it off,” Colangelo said. “We are all Facebook friends and we plan on talking to each other when the show is on the air.” 
Colangelo also said taping the show was exciting based on the location of the Jeopardy! set, which is located on the Sony Studio lot. 
“For me, one of the neatest things of the experience was we were on a film studio lot. The set was beauti­ful. Also, we got to eat lunch at the Sony commissary,” she said. “Some of the people competing even saw Brad Pitt.” 
Colangelo said one of the trickier aspects of participating on the show was preparing for the wide array of questions. 
“I tried to prepare mostly by watching the shows everyday,” she said. “Since it tests such a broad range of knowledge, it is hard to study anything specific.” 
Colangelo said she did study some specific material based on what subject areas she felt less comfort­able with. 
“I tried to brush up on stuff I was­n’t as knowledgeable about or I haven’t encountered as an engineer, such as the plots of Shakespeare,” she said. 
Colangelo said participating on Jeopardy! has been a dream of hers for a long time. 
She said she was on an email list to try out for different versions of the show, including the College Championship. She took a 10­minute online quiz in the spring, which initiated her audition process. 
“They have an online test for all the shows they do,” Colangelo said. “I had known that I wanted to be on Jeopardy! for a while.” 
Overall, Colangelo said despite the impressive cash prizes available, which range from $5,000 to $100,000 for the winner, the experi­ence of being on a game show itself is what she truly cherishes. 
“Going in, I thought about the money because $100,000 is a lot. But the first time I got on stage, I forgot about that because I love answering questions,” she said. “I realized the reason I originally wanted to be on was not the money, but the love of the concept of the show.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
Price 
continued from page 1 

no idea what I was bidding for so I would bid ridiculous amounts on random things.” 
O’Connor-Combee said it was difficult to hear as a member of contestant’s row, so she often had no idea what she bidding on. 
“You could barely tell what you were bidding when you were bidding because everything going 
on, there ’s cameras all around you and people are screaming the whole time,” she said. 
She said she was the first contestant to be called from the stands and was the last 
contestant to play a pricing game. During the pricing game, O’Connor-Combee failed to win a Mazda 3. 
“You get seven dollars and you have to guess a number one by one of the price 
of the car and for however many you’re off you have to pay 

was disappointed she didn’t someone to win a kayak,” win the car. she said. “Unless you are “I lost the car, and I was like an avid kayaker, but [I depressed afterwards for was excited for] anything. 
not  winni ng  They could have  
t he  c ar,  bu t  said, ‘oh here’s  
i t ’s  a l m o s t  a  n e w  t r a s h  
a n  i m p o s s i - “I kissed Drew Carey  c a n ’  a n d  y o u  
b le g ame to w i n u n l e s s y o u k n o w  and he was an old wrinkly man.”  j u s t l i k e j u m p for joy, like yes, that’s what I’ve  
t h e  e x a c t  always wanted.  
p r i c e , ”  s h e  Cara O’Connor-Combee  T h a t ’s  t h e  
said.  Sophomore  a t m o s p h e r e .  

She said each audi ­ence mem ­ber must go through an interviewing process in order to become a potential contestant for the show. During the interview, audi­ence members attempt to gain the producers’ atten­
“They try to keep you pumped up. It’s just a cheesy show, you know. So how I got on is I had the whole crowd do a wave during my interview.” 
Cara O’Connor-Combee Sophomore 
a dollar,” she said. “So say how I got on 
tion in hopes of becoming the next con­testant. 
“Everyone was really excited but I think it was just to try to get on the show, ” she said. “And they try to keep you pumped up. It ’s just a cheesy show, you know. So is I had the Everyone’s just 
super cheesy.” 

While on the show, O’Conner-Combee went with a group she called “The Bucket List Crew.” She said each mem­ber of the group wore a shirt with a bucket list on the front. 
“We all had bucket lists on our shirts and everyone had the first one [on the list as] ‘kiss Drew Carey, ’ so kissed Drew Carey and he was an old wrinkly man,” she said. 
O’Conner-Combee said she was not impressed with her time on the show. 
“I honestly like didn’t have best experience on it, I just think it’s really funny that I got on ‘The Price Is Right,’” she said. 
Though she didn’t have the best time, O’Connor-Combee still saw the posi­tives of going on the show. 
“I left with more than I had, I guess, and it’s a fun ice-breaker,” she said. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

you guess a five, but it ’s really eight, then you have to pay three dollars, and by the end, you need a dollar to buy the car.” 
O’Connor-Combee said she whole crowd do a wave dur­ing my interview.” 
O’Conner-Combee said she wasn ’t as excited as she appeared to be on the show. 
“I was way too excited for 
Monday, November 8, 2010 The Observer  NEWS page 5 
Jenkins 
continued from page 1 
The letter also expressed support for the Sullivan family. Jenkins said “words cannot express” the amount of sorrow the University feels for Sullivan’s family members. 
“Over this past week, I have had the great privilege of meeting with and trying to provide some measure of sup­port to Declan’s parents, sister, brother and other members of his family,” Jenkins said. “Yet the Sullivan family, through their incredible grace and courage, has given us support and an example of how to respond. They ministered to us as we tried to minister to them.” 
In reaction to what Jenkins called “unfounded and unfair commentary and speculation,” he offered support for head football coach Brian Kelly. 
“Coach Kelly was hired not only because of his football expertise, but because we believed his character and val­ues accord with the highest standards of Notre Dame,” Jenkins said. “All we have seen since he came to Notre Dame, and everything we have learned in our investigation to date, have confirmed that belief. For those reasons I am confident that Coach Kelly has a bright future leading our football program.” 

Last, the letter thanked Notre Dame students, faculty, staff, alumni and parents for concern and prayers following Sullivan’s death. 
“At the darkest moments, the love, and care, and faith of the Notre Dame family shines most brightly,” he said. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
GOP looks to alter health care 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Resurgent Republicans rallied Sunday behind an agenda based on unwavering opposition to the Obama White House and fed­eral spending, laying the groundwork for gridlock until their 2012 goal: a new presi­dent, a “better Senate” and ridding the country of that demonized health care law. 
Republicans said they were willing to work with President Barack Obama but also sig­naled it would be only on their terms. With control of the White House and the Senate, Democrats showed no sign they were conceding the final two years of Obama’s term to Republican lawmak­ers who claimed the majority in the House. 
“I think this week’s election was a historic rejection of American liberalism and the Obama and Pelosi agenda,” said Rep. Mike Pence, the Indiana Republican who is stepping down from his post in GOP leadership. “The American people are tired of the borrowing, the spending, the bailouts, the takeovers.” 
Voters on Tuesday punished Democrats from New Hampshire to California, giv­ing Republicans at least 60 new seats in the House. Republicans picked up 10 governorships; the GOP also gained control of 19 state leg­islative chambers and now holds the highest level of state legislative seats since 1928. 
“It was a very rough week, there’s no sugarcoating that,” said Rep. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md., who led the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. 
In the days since the elec­tion, Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., has announced her intention to remain as party leader and has yet to draw any challengers. But a race looms between two veteran members of the leadership for the second-ranking spot in the party. 
Rep. James Clyburn of South Carolina, the whip, already has announced his intention to run, and rein­forced his decision with a let­ter Sunday evening asking fel­low Democrats for their sup­port. 

Rep. Steny Hoyer of Maryland, the current majori­ty leader, has yet to make a formal announcement, but his office on Sunday circulated a letter signed by 30 rank-and­file Democrats endorsing him for the post. They included liberals as well as moderates, but no members of the Congressional Black Caucus, signaling Hoyer is conceding their votes to Clyburn, the highest-ranking African-American in the House. 
“I don’t see any sign of the president retreating from his principles, but I do see his willingness to reach out, and wherever reasonable and in the interests of moving the economy and jobs forward, he’s going to work with the Republicans, as are the Democrats,” Van Hollen said. 
Leaders urge repeal of military gay ban 


Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — Defense Secretary Robert Gates is encouraging Congress to act before year’s end to repeal the ban on gays serving openly in the military. It’s a position shared by his boss, the presi­dent. 
But his new Marine comman­dant thinks otherwise and the Senate has not yet taken action, setting up yet another hurdle for gay activists who see their win­dow quickly closing. After Tuesday’s elections that saw Republicans chip away at Democrats’ majority in the Senate and wrest the House from their control, their hopes for ending the 17-year-old law have dimmed. 
“I would like to see the repeal of ‘don’t ask, don’t tell,’ but I’m not sure what the prospects for that are and we’ll just have to see,” Gates told reporters travel­ing with him to Australia this weekend. 
Gates has said he would prefer Congress act after the Pentagon releases its study of how repeal would be implemented, which is due Dec. 1. 
That goal, though, lacks the backing of the Marine Corps commandant at a moment the country is fighting wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
“This is not a social thing. This is combat effectiveness,” Gen. James Amos said. 
That hesitation could be enough to give senators permis­sion not to act, activists fear. 
The House has passed legisla­tion repealing “don’t ask, don’t tell,” but it has not yet seen a vote in the full Senate, where Democrats don’t have the votes to overcome a Republican fili­buster. Democratic leaders says they are trying to reach a deal across the aisle now that Election Day has passed. 
“The Senate should call up the defense bill reported out of com­mittee and pass it before it goes home for the year,” said Aubrey Sarvis, executive director of the Servicemembers Legal Defense Network. “If the president, Majority Leader Reid, Secretary Gates and a handful of Republican senators are com­mitted to passing the compre­hensive defense bill, there is ample time to do so.” 
Gay activists worry the repeal could be stripped from the bill that funds the Pentagon. 
“Any talk about a watered-down defense bill, whereby the ‘don’t ask’ revisions would be stripped out, is unacceptable and offensive to the gay and les­bian service members who risk their lives everyday,” said Sarvis, whose organization provides legal services for gays and les­bians who face discharge. 
Obama on Wednesday also said he wanted a repeal before the new Congress arrives. 
“This should not be a partisan issue,” he said. “You’ve got a siz­able portion of the American people squarely behind the notion that folks who are willing to serve on our behalf should be treated fairly and equally.” 
A Gallup poll in May found 70 percent of American favor allow­ing gays and lesbians to serve openly. 
The legislative countdown comes as a parallel effort to end the ban continues in court. 
Last month, the Pentagon was forced to lift its ban on openly serving gays for eight days after a federal judge in California ordered the military to do so. The Justice Department has appealed, and a federal appeals court granted a temporary stay of the injunction. 
The Pentagon, meanwhile, is in the midst of a study of how it would implement a repeal should Congress act. Leaders of that effort have said a hasty pace and inadequate protections for gay and lesbian military mem­bers could be a disaster. 
The White House had hoped lawmakers would delay action until the Pentagon had complet­ed its study so fellow Democrats would not face criticism that they moved too quickly or too far ahead of public opinion in this election year. House Democrats would not wait. Administration officials joined the negotiations to make certain a repeal was not done too quickly. 
Obama, Gates and Adm. Michael Mullen — the top uni­formed military official in the country — have spoken in favor of repeal but have emphasized that it must be paced. The White House’s favored plan could give the Pentagon years to implement the repeal process and would require the approval of Obama, Gates and Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.” 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Monday, November 8, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A magical ending 
Where will you be at midnight on Thursday, Nov. 18? 
For seniors and juniors, the answer is most likely Fever. For sophomores and freshman, it’s probably on 
Melissa 
their way out of 
Flanagan 
a sketchy dorm party in Zahm. 
News 
But for those 

Production 
who have fol-
Editor 

lowed the lega­cy of Harry Potter, from his fateful 11th birth­day all the way until the infamous last battle scene, the answer is Cinemark 14. 
The first installment of the sev­enth movie marks the beginning of the end of an era. After the books were finished, enthusiasts still had the movies to look forward to, at least. But, as thousands of people have asked themselves, what’s left after the movies are finished as well? 
Because this is such a sensitive time for many, myself included, I’d like to set some guidelines for non-Harry Potter fans. 
First, in my opinion, midnight showings should be for book-read­ers only. I don’t care if you saw all six movies 12 times; if you really love Harry, Ron and Hermione you would want to experience them in every possible form of media. 
Second, if you must go, there will be no ridiculing of the experience allowed. Yes, there will be people dressed as wizards with lightning bolts drawn on their foreheads, but that’s only their way of expressing their affection for the wizarding world. 
You might want to think about dressing up as well — that way at least people will assume you’re a diehard follower even if you don’t know a Hallow from a Horcrux. 
Obviously, talking during the movie will not be tolerated and I expect fellow fans to join together and unceremoniously throw the stupid Muggle out of the theater. 
Most importantly, if you have not read every book and seen every movie, please refrain from making any negative comments about the film. Positive reactions are always welcome, and while I’m sure the movie will deserve some negative words, leave it to those who know what they’re talking about. 
For your own good, stay far away from any conversation involving the differences between the book and the movie. This is the climax of the movie-going experience for fans. Don’t make comments about opinions you “heard from people who read the books.” We’ll only tell you how ignorant you are and pro­ceed to disregard anything you say. 
And finally, if you have any sense in your head, you will go out, buy all seven books and six movies and get completely caught up before the final installment of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows is released. 
Because once that movie comes out, the only Harry Potter experi­ence that will be available is locat­ed in Universal Studios, Orlando, and it will cost you a lot more than a movie ticket. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Melissa Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 
There are things to cheer for 
And the trend continues. 
As our football team severely underper­forms, the rest of campus, the rest of the sporting world and the rest of the country have declared that Notre Dame’s athletic performance is anything but a Kevin Kimberly success. “What’s 
Bursting the 
there to cheer 
Bubble 

for at Notre Dame any­more?” seems to be the common theme throughout all articles and thoughts, for we have once again come to the conclu­sion that if Notre Dame football is not winning, Notre Dame athletics is not either. I have watched the trend become more prominent, particularly over the last few years, and it is simply an unac­ceptable one. 
I fully understand the love of football around here. I, too, enjoy football the most; it is my favorite sport to watch, talk about and analyze (playing, on the other hand, not so much). But have we forgot­ten about the numerous other sports here at Notre Dame? Allow me to update you. 
The men’s soccer team is currently ranked No. 12 in the nation, has four players ranked in a Top 100 national ranking list, has a senior (Jeb Brovsky) up for a national award that includes fan votes and is one game away from the Big Easy championship, with the NCAAs to follow. The women’s soccer team is ranked No. 8/9 in the country, just clinched the conference regular-season title, also has a senior (Lauren Fowlkes) up for the same national award and is poised to make a run in the NCAAs yet again. In fact, this senior class posts one of the most successful four year runs in terms of wins and post-season success; that is a record we should be cheering and ‘rushing the field’ for. Where’s the focus on these two stellar teams? 
The men’s basketball team has once again been under-ranked in the pre-sea­son predictions, and despite streaks of underperformance in the past, have you bought your season tickets to join the Leprechaun Legion this winter and spring? The women’s basketball team is pre-season ranked No. 12 and should once again contend for both conference and national awards, honors and champi-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
onships. But why would you even think about attending a game of one of the most successful programs over the past decade at Notre Dame? 
Ever thought to catch one of the few cross country meets on campus? Both teams just placed high in the Big East Conference championships and have their post-season races in the next few weeks. In fact, the men are ranked No. 30; yes, there are rankings in college cross coun­try. Or ever stopped to think about how the track and field teams are doing? Several athletes have had great and record-breaking finishes, but you would-n’t really know it. 
Several other teams are ranked and consistently compete for championships. Both golf teams are ranked high and have been on the rise the past few years. Our fencing teams are consistently in con­tention for regional, national and individ­ual championships. It is almost a lock for Notre Dame fencing to be in the national news and talk, but is it part of the campus news and talk? The hockey team just defeated the defending champions and could make a run this season with undy­ing support at the Joyce Center. Will you give up a few hours of your Friday or Saturday night to have a surprisingly good time at a hockey game this year? Did you know our rowing team has cap­tured seven straight conference champi­onships? The softball team opens up its season in February after clinching the Big East championship and winning a couple of NCAA Tournament games, but I am sure the stadium is too far away on cam­pus to consider attending a game. Our lacrosse teams are alive and well with the men’s team almost bringing home the NCAA Championship last year. 
Continuing on, the baseball team will soon open up a new season under a new coach, charged with raising the status of the program. Both tennis teams fight hard to bring home wins at a match, quite a few of which are held on campus. Our swimming and diving teams just kicked off their seasons and are consis­tently in the mix for conference champi­onships; a couple of meets are here but few students attend. The volleyball team dominated the Big East last year and has been competing well this year also. 
Where are the “student sections” at these sporting events? Where is the atten­tion on these sports and athletes? Putting aside your previously held stereotypes about members of some teams, a few of which may be true, these other student athletes deserve support too. They work, train and practice just as hard, and they contribute to the high academic stan­dards and success the University brags about as well. 
We can all read results in a paper, but we are probably just as capable of going to support these teams. Most other events on campus are free and are actually a fun time. The difference the student section makes at a football game very much car­ries over to an intensely close soccer game or nail-biting basketball matchup. Yes, we are Notre Dame students and have thousands of things to do and can­not always attend every event. I under­stand. Still, what’s wrong with taking a break from partying every now and then to go catch a game on a Friday? I’m sure you could still make that amazing dorm party you have been looking forward to all week. 
I know, I know. But football is the most important, right? Possibly. There is no denying that football, nine out of 10 times, makes a school the most money and gives a school’s name the most atten­tion. But it does not make or break our entire athletic program. Notre Dame foot­ball is not synonymous with Notre Dame athletics. Every sport played on this cam­pus and every athlete playing them have much to do with the success of our athlet­ic program. 
As I have always said, just because our football team is not in the Top 25 does not mean our athletic program overall is not. Though not a Notre Dame student-athlete myself, I can say with confidence that they probably would not mind a little sup­port and even more, some attention. 
Kevin Kimberly is a senior majoring in psychology and political science. He is eligible to run for president in 2024 and welcomes campaign slogans and ideas at kkimberl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“It is the unknown we fear when we look upon death and darkness,nothing more.” 
J. K. Rowling British author 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“It is nobler to declare oneself wrong than to insist on being right
— especially when one is right.” 
Friedrich Nietzsche German philosopher 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Monday, November 8, 2010 page 7 
Notre Dame should lead — not lag — on Oaths 
“Catholic” derives from the Greek word katholikos, which means “universal.” In “Caritas in Veritate,” Pope Benedict XVI states the Church has “a mission of truth to accomplish,” and “proclaims this truth tirelessly, recog­nizing it wherev-Terrence Keeley er it is manifest­ed.” Speaking of Guest the United 
Columnist 
Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Paul VI wrote of his “complete moral support for its common ideals.” In Pacem in Terris John XXIII expresses his clear wish that “the precise and juridical character” of the UN’s Universal Declaration receive sup­port “on the level of justice and legislation, not just that of human assistance.” Catholics have a duty to work with men and women of all faiths, nationalities and political persuasions to promote universal ideals and rules in direct support of the common good. 
In 2007, following a number of research scandals (including the falsification of human embryonic data and sham health studies commissioned by tobacco compa­nies), Sir David King — the UK govern­ment’s senior scientific advisor — pro­posed a universal ethical code for scien­tists. His seven-point creed is broadly organized around the principles of respon­sibility, rigor and respect. A central pur­pose of his code is to build greater trust between society and technical research, upon which much of our progress depends. Today tens of thousands of scien­tists and dozens of universities have endorsed Sir David’s principles and/or adopted close variants of their own. 
Similarly, in 2009, a group of MBA stu­dents from Harvard, inspired by their pro­fessors who claimed management deserved to be a recognized profession governed by a binding ethical code, craft­ed their own set of career-guiding princi­ples. Their seven-point creed commits its adherents to responsible value creation at the likely expense of personal gain. More than 4,500 MBA holders have since taken this pledge from over 300 institutions. Leadership schools supporting the now-global MBA Oath initiative include Yale, Columbia, Duke, University of Chicago, Oxford, Wharton, Emory, Kellogg, UC Berkeley, MIT, University of London, Thunderbird, UCLA and NYU, in addition to Harvard. 
Remarkably, Notre Dame is not among them. Indeed, of the 4,556 current MBA Oath signatories, only four are ND MBA holders or aspirants. Carolyn Woo, Dean of the Mendoza Business School, has taken a particularly strident line against the MBA Oath movement. “If Purdue wants to support it, that’s fine,” she told me. “It’s just not for Notre Dame.” 
I met with Dean Woo this past August to discuss the MBA Oath and a related initia­tive I founded with a global group of bankers (about which, please see www.financialhippocraticoath.org). I lis­tened as Dean Woo described why she would not let Notre Dame students be drawn into any oath-taking movements, something she clearly regards as a pass­ing fad. “We should only take oaths on two occasions in our lives,” she informed me. “When we marry, and when we join the religious life.” 
Last spring, separately, I had been invit­ed by Scott Malpass to address his Global Portfolio Management class on the causes and consequences of the financial crisis. Quoting both Caritas and Centisimus Annus, I openly asked whether a new, vol­untary code of ethics for bankers and bro­kers — especially those without MBA or CFA degrees — might help restore trust, just as the Holy Father implores. I issued a challenge grant to attending students con­sisting of three questions: 1) Would a new, inclusive “Financial Hippocratic Oath” be a useful way to rebuild trust in our finan­cial system? 2) If so, what tenets would you include in the oath? And 3) What busi­ness plan would you deploy to make such a “Financial Hippocratic Oath” reality? 
Notre Dame students responded exactly as one would expect. More than a dozen thoughtful proposals were submitted, unanimously supporting the FHO in con­cept. The winning essay by an outstanding Finance major student, James Pappas — The Financial Hippocratic Oath: Goals, Implementation and Enforcement — included a summary introduction to seven specific tenets, and five clear steps for implementation. A few weeks later, James came out to Notre Dame’s Annual Wall Street dinner to help promote the FHO concept to a crowd of 500 working alum­ni. Not surprisingly, dozens of Notre Dame financial professionals have since reached out to me, every one offering their sup­port. 
Notre Dame is now at a crossroad. Do Her students, faculty members and alumni work together to promote broad ethical movements — in science, business, finance, architecture, teaching, all profes­sions in fact — or do they let a handful of University officials with uncontestable principles, yet opposing views, speak on Her behalf? Will Our Lady’s University leaders and students actively engage other schools and like-minded reformers in pur­suit of universal behavioral codes, or will they instead restrain Notre Dame from engaging in inter-collegiate, multi-lateral initiatives? Will Notre Dame lead or lag in the growing number of well-intended oath-taking movements? If the latter, in this our era of growing doubts, how exact­ly will Notre Dame help restore faith and trust in our markets, our government, our scientific endeavors and our professions? Will these efforts prove sufficient? Could Notre Dame possibly do more? 
Many of Sir David’s tens of thousands, the 4500-plus who have already signed onto the MBA Oath, countless numbers of boy scouts and girl scouts, most of our men and women in the military and law enforcement agencies, and millions of members of the medical profession who have promised to incorporate universal ideals such as those in the original Hippocratic oath rely upon solemn vows at important junctures in their careers. Mahatma Gandhi said “vows relating to noble causes uplift both the individual and the society in which he takes part.” We all need to connect our endeavors back into the common good, into societal advance­ment, if we are to know personal, profes­sional and spiritual fulfillment. Oaths are an important divining rod and compass for the discerning when the seas get rough, as they inevitably do. 
In addition to my sacred marital and solemn professional commitments, I’ve pledged to help make the University of Notre Dame the greatest institute of Catholic higher education in the world. It is for this reason alone that I have written this editorial. 
In my considered judgment, if Notre Dame does not promote universal values with other like-minded aspirants, we will have failed Our Lady, our Church, our society and the principles we hold most dear. 
After all, being “universal” is what Catholicism and Notre Dame are all about. 
Terrence Keeley is a former Trustee of the University, a current member of the Nanovic Institute Advisory Board, Senior Managing Principal of Sovereign Trends, LLC and a Founding Director of the Financial Hippocratic Oath. He can be contacted at trk@sovereigntrends.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Package deal 
I write this letter to commend Ryan Williams on his excellent article regarding legacy status and affirmative action. I agree with the entire spirit of your article, and with most of the con­tent as well. However, I would like to tweak the argument in Ryan’s article just a bit. 
As a legacy student myself I understand that Notre Dame likes to keep certain families close to the Notre Dame. At the same time, I admit that I worry from time to time about why and how I got into Notre Dame. People do, and should, earn points on college applications for things such as ACT/SAT scores, extracurricular activities and, most importantly, grades. All of these items constitute genuine qualifications when determining a good prospective student. Conversely, skin color, parents, money, hair color and height do not constitute qualifications that earn points with admissions. At least, they shouldn’t. 
Notre Dame does not (or should not) look for whites or blacks. It does not (or should not) look for legacies or otherwise. Notre Dame looks at the entire character, identity and experience of an applicant. For most people this includes all those things I mentioned — skin color, parents, money, etc. Therefore I believe that while affir­mative action and legacy should not check a qualification box for admission, the issues they involve do form a part of one’s character, identity and experience in some way. As such, I think it is fair to at least recognize race and legacy instead of ignoring it. Or in other words, Notre Dame should not accept whites or blacks or legacies and other students. Instead, Notre Dame should accept good people while knowing that race, legacy, etc. help shape a person. 
Tom Schuster 
senior 
O'Neill Hall 
Nov. 4 
Catholic character 
Dear Father Jenkins: 

Thank you for finally standing up and taking responsibility on behalf of Notre Dame for the tragic death of Declan Sullivan. 
The sad truth remains, however, that the “official” acceptance of responsibility by the University took nine days. Nine days. 
I am shocked and disappointed that Notre Dame would delay such action, no doubt in an attempt to first quantify and manage its liabili­ty. As an attorney, I can appreciate the legal ramifications of an apology and acceptance of blame by the University, but Notre Dame is not just another secular institution whose first pri­ority is securing its financial well being. The University of Notre Dame embodies the teach­ings of Christ . Declan and his parents deserved better from her. Perhaps in the future, University leadership will admit fault with the same grace displayed by the Sullivan family in accepting their unnecessary and senseless loss. 
Sincerely, 

Shannon Crombie 
alumna Class of 1997 Nov. 6 
Drink advertised? 
Dear Observer, 

Last Friday’s article “Four Loko endangers students” makes a valid point and shares important health and safety information with the student body. Although written as a caveat to students about the dangers of Four Loko, it appeared to me to be more of an advertisement for this “cocaine in a can” (which, although should not, could very well be their new campaign slogan) and “pre-game ritual” necessity. One quote from the article “Drinking Four Loko facilitates higher levels of intoxication” would nab most students right there. To be honest, I have a friend who had never drank Four Loko, and after reading the article and discovering the higher intoxication ability (and the low price point at the store) ran out to get one to begin their pre-game ritual. The article also supplies many students with new ideas for use of Four Lokos, such as shotgunning them, or drinking three in an hour. In fact, it may even inspire change of Forties at Four, to Four Lokos at Four. Lastly, the picture appearing on the front page advertises what popular opinion claims to be the “best flavor” for those new to Four Loko. 
As a health conscious student, I appreciate the information The Observer was trying to convey. However, scare tactics informing students of “how drunk they can get” off of a drink does not serve the intended purpose. It actually does the opposite. 
Concerned students, 

Krissy Kemnetz 
senior off campus 
Ricky Gonzalez 
senior 
off campus 
Nov. 5 

The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Monday, November 8, 2010 

MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Monday, November 8, 2010 page 9 

By COURTNEY COX 
Scene Writer 
Today marks a new era for Conan O’Brien. The former host of “Late Night with Conan O’Brien” is making a bold transition away from network television. After a highly publicized split from NBC after his short-lived stint as host of “The Tonight Show,” Conan made the decision to host his new show on TBS. The publicity didn’t stop once the dust settled, and Conan has utilized a grassroots marketing effort to reach out to his loyal fans. His use of Twitter as a way to keep himself relevant has been well received and, in typical Conan fashion, utterly hilari­ous. Here are some of the highlights of Conan’s tweeting career.   
“I’ve decided to follow someone at random. She likes peanut butter and gummy dinosaurs. Sarah Killen, your life is about to change.” — March 5, on following only one person out of the millions in the Twitterverse. 
“Today I begin my special tour diet: waffle batter, no veggies, and massive amounts of German blood sausage.” — March 13, on his preparation for the Legally Prohibited from Being Funny on TV Tour. 
“As Bieber sleeps, I grow stronger. Sleep, Bieber. Sleep.” — March 21 
“I’m confused by the new census form. There’s no box for ‘Sickly White.’” — March 31 
“I’m in San Jose and I’m going to visit Google. If you look up ‘Google’ on Google from Google, you see the face of God.” — May 5 
“I’ve decided to start tweeting about major world events, so I just read four newspapers. Man, is it me or can Garfield be a real dick?” — May 12 
“I’m in KC. I like my BBQ like I like my women, HOT. Also, rubbed with Molasses, Coffee Grounds and Cayenne.” — May 16 
“Pac-Man’s 30th birthday was marred by the sudden deporta­tion of the Super Mario Bros. What were those fools doing in Arizona?” — May 22 
“Our last casino show is tonight at Mohegan Sun, and I think it’s finally time to do some REAL gambling: the seafood buffet.” — June 6 
“The tour is over. As I stare at the horizon, the wind ruffles my beard gently.” — June 16 
“Larry King’s retiring after hosting ‘Larry King Live’ for 25 years. Personally, I think hosting anything longer than 7 months is overkill.” — June 30 
“Congrats to my staff on 4 Emmy nominations. This bodes well for the future of The Tonight Show with Conan O’Brien.” — July 8 
“Jersey Shore has added a new woman to the cast for their next season. No word yet on whether or not she likes to party.” — August 8 
“The FDA egg recall has hit a total of 380 million eggs. I can’t wait til they find the tired, evil hen that did this.” — August 19 
“In a recent interview, Kim Kardashian says her ‘entire body is hairless.’ Sounds like she went into a salon and asked for ‘The O’Brien.’” — August 22 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 
page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, November 8, 2010 
NFL 

Vikings fans want to know Childress’ status 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — Like voters flocking to the polls, Minnesota Vikings fans loudly called for a change in leadership to save a fast-sinking season that started with Super Bowl aspirations. 
The signs said it all — “Fire Chilly” — and there were thou­sands of them being handed out on the streets by grinning entre­preneurs outside the stadium before Sunday’s game against Arizona. 
Boos came from the crowd as coach Brad Childress emerged from the tunnel leading to the field, and the “Fire Childress!” chants were audible several times throughout the afternoon. Finally, as the Vikings rallied from a two-touchdown deficit late in the fourth quarter and pulled out an overtime victory, the chants changed to “Let’s go Vikings!” 
“I think they came expecting to see an execution,” Childress said. “And it ended up a pretty good football game at the end.” 
Mired in controversy over his handling of the hasty decision to dump dissatisfied wide receiver Randy Moss, Childress acknowl­edged this week his expectation of the catcalls from customers frustrated by the 2-5 record. 

The majority of the fan base has never warmed up to Childress, and the angst hit an apex this week. Reports emerged about player-coach clashes and owner Zygi Wilf’s anger over Childress’s failure to tell him his plan to waive Moss after a pat­tern of disrespect shown by the notoriously moody star. 
Childress chalked his heated argument with wide receiver Percy Harvin, who was close to Moss, up to emotional people playing an emotional game. Harvin shrugged it off, too. 
“It was about whether I was going to get an MRI or not. It was a little dispute, but we settled it. Me and Coach are fine,” Harvin said. 
Wilf was at team headquarters this week, closely observing the team and talking to key players about the situation. Before the game, Wilf and Childress shook hands and had a brief conversa­tion on the field during warmups. Wilf gave reporters a brief statement but declined to address the status of his head coach, to whom he gave one year ago a contract extension through the 2013 season. 
“Nothing to say about that,” Wilf said. “The big thing is get­ting a win right now. The big thing is to win this game and to be crowned division champions.” 
Wilf was downright giddy after the game, greeting everyone from Childress to the last guy on the roster as they entered the locker room by exclaiming, “Great heart, fellas! Great heart!” 
Still, Childress is in front of the public firing squad, as football coaches often are. 
“It’s kind of a disaster right now. I think he should’ve been gone a couple years ago,” said Bryan Bergeson, a lifelong Vikings fan from Rockford, Ill., who took part in the pre-game tailgating outside the dome on an unseasonably sunny and warm November day. 
Bergeson spoke across the street from an office building where paper taped inside a fifth-floor window spelled out, of course, “Fire Chilly.” Bergeson had his own sign in his hand. 

One woman, seeing a reporter scribbling in a notebook, yelled as she walked by, “Just write ‘Fire Childress!’” 
One girl wore a purple Moss jersey with red tape crossing out the No. 84, a sign that not all the anger is directed at Childress. 
“It’s really negative. I don’t like the signs. To be honest, a couple weeks ago things were cool. Two losses in a row, and, wow,” said Tom O’Neill, who makes regular trips to games with friends from Mason City, Iowa. 
His group had a clear message: Cheer the uniforms and not the players or coaches who wear them. 
“We love the Vikings,” O’Neill said. “We invest a lot of time. Give up a Sunday. I could be home getting my lawn that needs raked right now.” 
GOLF 

Molinari outduels No. 1 for win 
Associated Press 
SHANGHAI — The experience of losing to one No. 1 player in the world helped Francesco Molinari beat another. 
When last seen on a world stage, Molinari was helpless against Tiger Woods in Ryder Cup singles, when the former world No. 1 steamrolled the Italian for an easy victory at Celtic Manor. 
One month later at the HSBC Champions, Molinari turned in a world-class performance against the new No. 1. 
In an exquisite duel with Lee Westwood that came down to the last putt, Molinari played bogey-free Sunday at Sheshan International for a 5-under 67, giving him a one-shot victory and a World Golf Championship title. 
“It’s been four fantastic days, and especially the last two play­ing head-to-head with Lee was really tough,” Molinari said. “I think the experience of playing with Tiger in the Ryder Cup defi­nitely helped me in the last cou­ple of days, because when you are playing against No. 1 in the world, it is not easy to always stick to the game plan and do your game.” 

Woods was 7 under over the last seven holes in that Ryder Cup match against Molinari. He wasn’t even close to that level at the HSBC Champions, where even a 68 on the final day still put him 12 shots behind in a tie for sixth. 
He ended his PGA Tour season without a win for the first time in his career. 
“That’s just the way it goes,” Woods said. “It’s not like I didn’t try. It just didn’t happen this year. But I’m pleased with the progress I’ve made of late. Things are building and heading in the right direction, which is good.” 
Richie Ramsay of Scotland closed with a 71 and tied for third with Luke Donald of England, who faltered to a 73. For Ramsay, it was enough to secure a spot in the Race to Dubai finale at the end of the month. 
Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland had a 67 for a European sweep of the top five spots. 
But this was Molinari’s show. No one had a lower score in three of the four rounds, and he finished at 19-under 269. 
It spoiled the debut of Westwood atop the world rank­ing, yet the 37-year-old Englishman could find little to regret except for a few bad breaks down the stretch and one poor flop shot at the worst time. 
After making a 10-foot par on the 15th to stay one shot behind, Westwood his 3-wood on the 288-yard 16th and thought he was in perfect shape until his tee shot hit the back of a bunker and bounced forward, leaving him in an awkward spot with a pot bunker between him and the flag. His flop shot was fat and didn’t clear the bunker, while Molinari hit lob wedge to 4 feet for birdie and a two-shot lead. 
Still two shots behind playing the par-5 18th — this after mak­ing a 15-foot par save — Westwood hit 5-iron to the green and turned in disbelief when the ball crawled up a slope and did-n’t come back down toward the pin. 
Instead, he had a 25-foot eagle putt to force a playoff, but the ball stayed left of the hole. 
“I expected it to be running down, like 3 or 4 feet,” Westwood said. “Just needed the breaks to win, and it didn’t hap­pen.” 
Even so, he put up a fight that was worthy of his ranking. 
NFL 

Goal line stand clinches victory 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA — The best team in the NFC? 
Not on this day. 

Michael Turner scored two early touchdowns and the Atlanta Falcons held off Tampa Bay with a gutty goal-line stand, taking over sole possession of first place in the NFC South with a 27-21 victory Sunday. 
Tampa Bay coach Raheem Morris had proclaimed his team the best in the NFC, and it looked like the Buccaneers might back him up after Michael Spurlock had an 89-yard touch­down on a kickoff return and Josh Freeman guided a drive that reached the Atlanta 2. 
On fourth-and-1, Freeman faked a handoff to Ryan Purvis, a tight end lined up at fullback, and then gave it to LeGarrette Blount for a run over right tack­le. But Thomas DeCoud charged up to stuff the play, and Coy Wire finished off Blount to make sure he couldn’t stretch out for a first down. 
The ball went over to the Falcons (6-2), who ran out the clock after Turner picked up the necessary first down with one final run. He finished with 24 carries for 107 yards, his fourth 100-yard performance in the past six games. 
Give the Bucs credit, though. 

The Falcons thoroughly domi­nated much of the game and Freeman — who had been doing a good job not turning the ball over — had a pair of intercep­tions. 
But Tampa Bay (5-3) dominat­ed on special teams and still had a chance at the end to pull out the victory in a matchup of the teams that came into the day tied with the New York Giants for the best record in the confer­ence. The Giants were playing at Seattle later Sunday. 
Turner scored on runs of 2 and 10 yards to stake the Falcons to a 14-0 lead, but Freeman cut the gap to 17-14 by halftime with a 14-yard touch­down pass to Arrelious Benn and a 58-yarder to Mike Williams. 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  This is what my friend said to me;  I like vending machines 'cause  
WANTED  FOR RENT  PERSONAL  Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has  he said, "Guess what I like? Mashed potatoes." It's like,"Dude.  snacks are better when they fall. If I buy a candy bar at a store, often- 
many resources in place to assist  you gotta give me time to guess. If  times, I will drop it... so that it  
JAMBA JUICE opening soon at  AVAILABLE NOW  If you or someone you care about  you.  you're gonna quiz me, you must  achieves its maximum flavor poten- 
Eddy Street Commons.  has been sexually assaulted, we  insert a pause in there."  tial.  
can help.  If you or someone you love needs  
Part-time employees desired.  4BD/2BA HOME FOR RENT.  confidential support or assistance,  My apartment is infested with koala  I want to hang a map of the world in  
Former Jamba Juice employees  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  bears. Its the cutest infestation ever.  my house, and then I’m gonna put  
welcome.  or Ann Firth at 1-2685.  Much better than cockroaches. I  pins into all the locations that I’ve  
1.5 miles from ND  For more information, visit Notre  turn the lights on and a bunch of  traveled to. But first I’m gonna have  
Please contact Dian at  Dame's website:  For more information, visit ND's  koala bears scatter. I'm like, come  to travel to the top two corners of  
jjuice1240@gmail.com.  website at:  back! I want to hold one of you, and  the map so it won’t fall down.  
Looking forward to connecting with  574-876-6333  feed you a leaf.  - Mitch Hedberg  
you.  http://csap.nd.edu.  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu.  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ————————————————  

Monday, November 8, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
NFL 

Bills still winless after loss to Bears in Toronto 
Associated Press 
TORONTO — In their relent­lessly frustrating search for a victory, the Buffalo Bills have now proven they’re equally as bumbling on both sides of the border. 
They’re now 0-for-Canada after dropping their first seven in the United States, losing 22-19 to the Chicago Bears in Buffalo’s home-away-from home at Toronto on Sunday. 
It hurts,” Bills coach Chan Gailey said. “It feels like some­one kicked you in the stomach.” 
The Bills (0-8) are the NFL’s only winless team and are off to their worst start in 26 years. 
They led 19-14 in the fourth quarter and were driving for another score when Tim Jennings picked off Ryan Fitzpatrick. Six plays later, Earl Bennett scored the go-ahead touchdown on a 2-yard touch­down catch from Jay Cutler with 
6:41 left. 

Cutler finished 17 of 30 for 188 and threw two touchdown passes, including a 4-yarder to Greg Olsen. Cutler lost one fum­ble, but was far more efficient than his last outing when he threw four interceptions in a 17­14 loss to Washington on Oct. 24. 
Bears safety Chris Harris ended the Bills’ chances in the final minute, by intercepting Fitzpatrick again when the quar­terback’s pass tipped off the fin­gers of receiver Donald Jones. 
Fitzpatrick went 31 of 51 for 299 yards and a touchdown to Roscoe Parrish. 
Chester Taylor scored on a 1­yard plunge for the Bears (5-3), who came out of their bye week to end a two-game skid. 
“We needed this one,” Urlacher said. “We found a way to get it done.” 
They got it done courtesy of a juggling catch by Jennings, who made the game-turning pick after the Bears gave up consecu­tive scores to fall behind 19-14. 
Setting himself in the middle of the field, Jennings read the play perfectly when Fitzpatrick attempted to hit Steve Johnson deep up the right sideline. Driving to his left, Jennings timed his leap to get a piece of the ball, and then bobbled it sev­eral times before securing it and taking it 39 yards to the Bills 23. 
“I almost dropped that ball about four or five times, but I was able to regain it,” said Jennings, who maintained his balance while, at one point reaching backward to snag the ball. “I was just playing that play aggressive, because we knew we needed a turnover.” 
After Cutler found Bennett open in the right side of the end zone, he converted the 2-point attempt with a shovel pass to Matt Forte to put Chicago up by 3. 
The Bills have now lost three straight by a 3 points. The other two were in overtime — 13-10 at Kansas City last weekend, and 37-34 at Baltimore on Oct. 24. 
“It’s tough. We’re fighting. You could see it out there,” said Johnson, who finished with 11 catches for 145 yards. “I don’t know what to say. It’s just not happening in the end.” 


The Bills did mostly everything else right. They outgained the Bears 340-283, had more first downs, 22-19, and converted 10 of 16 third-down chances against a defense that entered the game the best in the NFL at forcing fourth down. 
NFL 

Lions call on Suh for extra point 
Associated Press 

DETROIT — At first it seemed like a fun novelty — 307-pound Ndamukong Suh lining up to kick an extra point for Detroit as the home crowd shouted his name. 
Then Suh's kick hit the right upright. The Lions could have used that point later in the game. 
Suh's miss came in the third quarter Sunday, moments after kicker Jason Hanson was injured. Detroit lost 23-20 in overtime to New York after the Jets tied the game on a last-second field goal. 
"There's no question that Ndamukong is our backup field goal kicker," Lions coach Jim Schwartz said. "He's done it in practice. We have a lot of con­fidence that he could kick it. It put him in a difficult situation because he went out without any warmups. ... Probably should have called a timeout, given him time to get ready." 
Suh, a rookie defensive line­man, grew up playing soccer. His kick had plenty of strength but wasn't quite straight enough, leaving the Lions ahead 13-10. 
Hanson hurt his right knee when New York's Trevor Pryce stumbled into him on a short field goal attempt. The Jets were penalized on the play, giving Detroit a new set of downs, and the Lions scored on a 1-yard run by Matthew Stafford. 
Hanson was playing his 295th game with Detroit, one fewer than the record Bruce Matthews set with the Tennessee Titans franchise for games played with one team. Hanson returned in the fourth quarter to kick an extra point, but punter Nick Harris handled kickoffs for the Lions in his place. 
page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, November 8, 2010 
NBA 

Heat still making adjustments at 5-2 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — Chris Bosh was the No. 1 scoring option in Toronto for most of his seven seasons, just as LeBron James was in Cleveland and Dwyane Wade was in Miami over that span. 
Times have changed. 
When they’re on the court together, someone has to be a No. 2 or No. 3 option for the Heat, a role that none of them has held in years. And even after starting 5-2 in Miami, the “Big 3” say mak­ing that adjustment — an ongoing process — may be the biggest challenge for a team that has championship aspirations. 
“Sometimes, I get a little lost out there,” Bosh acknowledged Saturday night. “This is different. We have a system, but at the same time, when the game’s happening so fast sometimes I just get lost. I don’t know whether to cut, whether to go, whether to get back and play with those two talented guys. It happens real fast.” 
So Bosh sought out James on the Heat charter flight home from New Orleans after a three-point loss on Friday night. The chat was wide-ranging, but mostly revolved around how they could best complement each other and further integrate themselves into a Heat system that has been built around Wade for nearly a decade. 
The initial results of their conversation were promising, to say the least. Wade scored 29 points, James had 23 and Bosh had 21 in Saturday night’s win over New Jersey, the first game where the three of them all topped the 20-point plateau this season. 
“I didn’t really care about whether they each were scor­ing over 20 points,” Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. “It was more about being aggressive, being athletic, being quick and they all had a different disposition.” 
Spoelstra doesn’t buy into the notions of No. 1 option, No. 2 option, so on and so forth. 
In the Heat philosophy, if someone’s open, he’s the No. 1 option. When Bosh started Saturday’s game by missing three shots in a 2-minute stretch, Spoelstra grabbed him and advised him to keep shooting. 

Bosh was 6 for 9 from the floor the rest of the way. 
“I was actually encouraged by his aggressiveness,” Spoelstra said. “That’s who he is. We can’t take that away from any of our guys.” 
The Heat were off on Sunday. They return to prac­tice Monday morning, then host the Utah Jazz on Tuesday night. 
To be clear, there was no rift between Bosh and James, nor any angst over how many shots they or anyone else on the Heat is getting. Bosh is taking about five fewer shots per night than he averaged in his final two seasons in Toronto, while James is firing off roughly six less attempts than he averaged with the Cavaliers. 
From the night they signed with Miami, Wade, James and Bosh all have said they wouldn’t care about stats, and so far that rings true. 
“What I got out of the whole conversation was us getting to know each other on a more personal level,” James said. “When you can do that it makes the game much easier. ... He was able to open up to me and I was able to listen and get a good feel where he is coming from. I know a lot about D-Wade. I have had multiple conversa­tions with him over the years. Our cohesiveness on the court is great.” 
Bigger than any victory for Miami so far has likely been the fact that while the offen­sive pieces are still getting put together at times, the Heat defense is already working — to Spoelstra’s delight. 
Miami is one of three teams, Orlando and New Orleans being the others, who haven’t allowed any opponent to top the 100-point mark so far this season. 
Given that, it’s only a mat­ter of time for the offense to get rolling, Wade said. 
NFL 

Raiders move to 5-4 with OT win 
Associated Press 

OAKLAND, Calif. — As the Oakland Raiders poured out onto the field to celebrate Sebastian Janikowski’s over­time kick, the 13 penalties, three turnovers and long stretches of offensive inepti­tude were merely a footnote. 
The Raiders won their biggest game in nearly eight years and are once again a contender in the AFC West. 
Jason Campbell threw a 47­yard pass to rookie Jacoby Ford in overtime to set up Janikowski’s winning 33-yard field goal that capped Oakland’s 23-20 victory over the division-leading Kansas City Chiefs on Sunday. 
“It wasn’t the way we draw it up but it was the way it was supposed to be,” coach Tom Cable said. “We hung in there, fought, hung in there, fought, got a chance, made a couple of plays, made two kicks and now we’re all happy. It’s a great job by our team of really pulling together.” 
Campbell and Ford hooked up on a 29-yard pass in the closing seconds of regulation to set up Janikowski’s tying 41­yard field goal. The Raiders (5­
4) then won it in overtime for their most significant victory since winning the 2002 AFC championship. Oakland hasn’t had a winning record at any time since being 2-1 in 2004 and not this late since ‘02. 
By winning their third straight game for the first time since that season, Oakland heads into its bye week just a half-game behind Kansas City (5-3). 
“This win was probably the win that does wonders for our season,” Campbell said. 
The Chiefs won the overtime toss but were unable to gener­ate a first down. Campbell then hit Ford on a diving catch on the first play for Oakland. Ford, a fourth-round pick, caught six passes for 148 yards and returned the opening kick of the second half for a touch­down. 
“It’s something I’ve been wanting to do ever since I was little,” Ford said. “I went out there, and it was a dream come true to be out there hav­ing fun making plays with those guys.” 
After a short run and a time­out by the Chiefs, Janikowski came on for the winning kick. 

As soon as it sailed through the uprights, the Raiders celebrat­ed with the first sellout crowd in Oakland since last year’s opener. 
The talk all week was about the revival of a rivalry that was one of the sport’s best for a decade starting in the 1960s. While the play was sloppy at times with five turnovers, 27 penalties and two blown fake punts, the intensity was top­notch. 
The Raiders trailed 20-17 when they took over at their 25 with 2:06 to play. The big play came when Ford ripped a ball away from a defender for a 29­yard gain to the 22. Oakland rushed to the line and spiked the ball with 7 seconds left, setting the stage for Janikowski’s tying field goal. 
“Unfortunately, they took it down at the end of the game and we weren’t able to pro­duce in overtime,” Chiefs quar­terback Matt Cassel said. “It’s difficult to take when you make the mistakes that we did today and lose.” 
Kansas City had taken a 20­17 lead on a 20-yard pass from Cassel to Dwayne Bowe with 
6:13 to play. That score was set up when Nick Miller muffed a punt and Kansas City’s Verran Tucker recovered at the Raiders 30. It appeared as if Miller’s knee might have been down before the ball came loose, but Cable had already used his two challenges so Kansas City kept the ball. 
The Raiders had gained just 54 yards with their only score coming on Ford’s 94-yard kick­off return to open the second half when they took over trail­ing 13-7 early in the third quarter. 
The offense finally got going as Campbell hit Ford on a 16­yard pass and Darren McFadden followed with a 34­yard run. A 16-yard pass to McFadden moved the ball to the 2 and two plays later Campbell found tackle Khalif Barnes for a touchdown that gave Oakland a 14-13 lead. 
The Raiders tacked on a 23­yard field goal by Janikowski after Campbell found Ford on a key third-down conversion for 37 yards. 
After Rock Cartwright was stopped on Oakland’s fake punt try, the Chiefs appeared to score on a slant from Cassel to Tony Moeaki on third-and-2 from the 6. 
Cable challenged the call and won it when replays showed Moeaki’s knee went down at the 1. Instead of giving the Chiefs a first down, the officials originally called it fourth and goal from the 1. After a holding call on Kansas City, the officials corrected the down and the Chiefs had first-and-goal at the 11. 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Badgers ready for title runs 
Associated Press 

WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — In prime position to win the Big Ten title and contend for a BCS championship after rallying to beat Purdue, Montee Ball knows what Wisconsin needs to do to end up on top. 
“We just keep moving for­ward,” the running back said. 
“Our  focus  is  now  is  on  
Indiana.”  
The  Badgers  topped  the  
Boilermakers  34-13  on  

Saturday after trailing at half­time, and have moved up to No. 6 in the AP Top 25. 
With losses by Utah and Alabama on Saturday, Wisconsin trails only one one-loss team, LSU, in the AP poll. 
The Badgers (8-1, 4-1 Big Ten) already have played the other one-loss teams in the con­ference: Michigan State, Iowa and Ohio State. The Badgers host Indiana on Saturday, then are at Michigan and close at home against Northwestern. Those teams are in the lower half of the league standings and have a combined conference record of 4-11, though Michigan and Northwestern already have the necessary six overall wins to become bowl-eligible. 
All could have been lost with a slip against the Boilermakers, but Ball filled in nicely for John Clay. Ball ran for a career-high 127 yards and two touchdowns. He got 21 carries because Clay, the top running back, got dinged up during the game and No. 2 running back James White was out with a knee injury. 
Ball felt comfortable in the role. 
“I was getting the load in practice,” Ball said. “James was sprinkled in a little bit in prac­tice, but he’s going to come back strong, John’s going to come back strong.” 
Monday, November 8, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
Arc 
continued from page 16 
indicative of the shooting ability of the entire Irish squad this season. 
In 31 minutes, Hansbrough went 11 of 17 from the field and 6 of 10 on three point­ers. 
“It’s beautiful to watch,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “That’s a step for him in the development of his game.” 
Hansbrough’s night could have ended with an exclama­tion point, as he streaked towards the basket on a fast break late in the second half. Going in for a one-handed slam, the ball collided with the rim on the follow through and fell out. He picked up the rebound and finished the play with a lay-up, flashing a smile as his teammates let him hear about it. 
“I could go out there right now and windmill [dunk] it,” Hansbrough said. “I don't know what happened. I’m shocked. That never hap­pens.” 
Senior Scott Martin, who sat out the last two seasons due to a one-year transfer hold in 2008 and a season-ending knee injury in 2009, showcased his shooting abili­ty and a smooth left-handed jumper. Martin finished the game with 10 points and nine rebounds. 

Senior forward Tim Abromaitis added 13 points and six assists, and senior forward Tyrone Nash fin­ished with eight points and three boards. Nash said he likes the versatility of the Irish offensive attack this season. 
“You take one option away, you take two options away . we still have three or four options to use to our advan­tage,” Nash said. “I would really hate to guard us.” 
Of the three freshmen on the roster this season, point guard Eric Atkins has logged the most minutes thus far. Displaying his defensive abil­ity, Atkins prevented the Cardinal guards from getting open all night. 
Senior forward Carleton Scott delivered a strong defensive performance to go along with a nice contribu­tion on the offensive end. Scott finished with seven points, four blocks and seven rebounds. 
The Irish begin their regu­lar season slate Friday with a matchup against Georgia Southern at 8:30 p.m. in the Purcell Pavilion. 

Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
NBA 

Bench leads Boston over Oklahoma City 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY — Shrek and Donkey are back at it again for the Boston Celtics. 
Ray Allen scored 19 points, Boston’s reserves helped pre­vent a big lead from slipping away in the fourth quarter and the Celtics opened a four-game road trip Sunday night with a 92-83 victory over the Oklahoma City Thunder. 
Glen Davis had three foul line jumpers during a 15-6 push by the Celtics after their 22-point lead had been cut to 73-67 early in the fourth quarter. Nate Robinson, who gave himself the “Donkey” nickname to go with Davis’ “Shrek” in the playoffs last season, added a driving layup and Allen’s 3-pointer from the left wing restored the advan­tage to 88-71 with 7:04 remaining. 
“That whole group, they were absolutely terrific. They won the game for us,” coach Doc Rivers said. “They went from a six-to a (17-) point lead. We came down, we got stops and executed, and Nate was terrific.” 
Rivers was forced to go with his backups after Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook scored all of the Thunder’s points during the third quarter, when Oklahoma City outscored Boston 27-15. 
The Celtics led by as much as 64-42 before Westbrook reeled off a personal string of nine straight points to give Oklahoma City a chance. He hit a pair of jumpers and three free throws, then capped it off with a steal that led to a two-handed, fast-break dunk. 
Allen fired back with a jumper and a 3-pointer in Boston’s 7-0 response, but Oklahoma City scored 16 of the next 18 points to pull to 73-67 on James Harden’s 3 to open the fourth quarter. 

“In this league, everyone loses leads, but not the way we did today,” Rivers said. “We got up on a great team and then you have to keep playing that way to win the game and stay up. We kind of let up. You can get away with that against a lot of teams. Not with a team with Westbrook and Durant on it. You definitely can’t do that.” 
But with Robinson starting to figure out his role as the second-team point guard, until Delonte West returns from a 10-game suspension, the Celtics’ cartoony combina­tion helped to put the game away. 
“We’ve just got to continue to give our starters a lift off the bench and continue to do what we’ve been doing, which is playing together and having fun,” said Robinson, who had a season-high nine points. 
Durant scored 34 points and Westbrook had 16 points and 10 assists to lead Oklahoma City, which played without third-leading scorer Jeff Green. Green is day to day with a sprained left ankle. 
The Thunder had back-to­back lopsided losses to Utah and the Los Angeles Clippers before rallying from a 13­point, third quarter deficit to beat Portland in overtime on Thursday night. 
“We wanted to play hard and get back in the game,” Durant said. “We had a bad first half and just wanted to redeem ourselves. I think we were pressing it a little too much and causing turnovers, but you have to give them credit. They’re a great team.” 
Stahl 
continued from page 16 
the tournament.” 

Havens started off the first day of the tournament strong by earning two straight-set sin­gles wins. Junior Niall Fitzgerald also had a strong first day in Virginia, bringing in two singles wins to comple­ment Havens’ success. 
Pecor and sophomore Spencer Talmadge also had two wins on day one for the Irish. 
In Alabama, senior Matt Johnson took down Joshua Irazabal of Stillman in straight sets before defeating Adam Lawton of Virginia Tech in a three-set match. 
Fellow senior Bryan Kelly also managed a three-set win over Chatanooga’s Matt Harris, while freshman Matt Dooley came up with two three-set wins in Alabama for the Irish. In doubles, freshman Greg Andrews teamed up with sen­ior captain Tyler Davis, while freshman Ryan Bandy and sen­ior Sean Tan teamed up. Both teams took home victories. 
On day two in Virginia, Havens was pushed to a three-set match before claiming a victory in his first match of the day. 
“Stephen is a very experi­enced player,” Bayliss said. “He has played [No.] 2 singles for us the past two years against some tough competi­tion, and his maturity is show­ing through. Before, he would push a set to a tie breaker and then lose in the tie breaker. Now he pulls out the tie break­er.” 
Stahl and sophomore Blas Moros also picked up wins on the day for Notre Dame. Fitzgerald and Talmadge teamed up to win two doubles matches against tough compe­tition as well. 

“Doubles wasn’t quite as commanding as I would have liked,” Bayliss said, “But [asso­ciate head coach] Ryan [Sachire] does have half the team in Alabama. Coming into the fall, I felt we needed to improve our doubles, and it is still a work in progress. I now feel I have some strong ideas for good possibilities for the spring.” 
Havens and Pecor earned all-tournament honors in Virginia after teaming up to go unde­feated in doubles action. 
The Irish will open their spring season back in Virginia as they take on William and Mary on Jan. 22, 2011. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 
NFL 

Browns dismantle Patriots 
Associated Press 

CLEVELAND — Soaked to the skin from a Gatorade shower, Eric Mangini met his mentor at midfield and did everything he could to contain himself. 
It was tough not to smile. 

His Cleveland Browns bat­tered one of the NFL's best. 
Rookie quarterback Colt McCoy scrambled for a touch­down, Peyton Hillis hammered for a career-high 184 yards and two scores and the Browns, using some trickery and a ton of offensive imagi­nation, pounded the New England Patriots 34-14 on Sunday. 
Two weeks after stunning New Orleans, the Browns (3-5) pulled off another shocker. Well rested after their bye week, they ended New England’s five-game winning streak and did it decisively, outplaying one of the NFL’s top teams for all 60 minutes. 
This was no fluke. The Patriots (6-2) were battered, baffled and beaten badly. 
It had to be particularly sat­isfying for Mangini, who defeated Bill Belichick, his former friend and mentor. The pair's relationship was dam­aged years ago and they ignored each other during pregame warmups. After the game Mangini shared a brief handshake with Belichick. 
Hillis, healthy at last after being slowed by a thigh injury, scored on a 2-yard run in the first, and then put the Patriots away with a 35-yard burst late in the fourth to make it 34-14. He carried 29 times and picked up all 60 yards on Cleveland’s game -sealing drive. 
After the score, Browns offensive coordinator Brian Daboll was flattened by Pro Bowl tackle Joe Thomas as they attempted a celebratory chest bump on the sideline. 
New England’s Tom Brady went 19 of 36 for 224 yards and two TDs to rookie tight end Aaron Hernandez. However, Brady lost for the first time in five career starts against the Browns, who jumped to an early 10-0 lead and led by 17 entering the fourth. 
Receiver Wes Welker kicked the extra point on Hernandez’s second touch­down because Stephen Gostkowski suffered a thigh injury in the first half. 
Brady was hindered by sev­eral dropped passes and a crucial fumble by tight end Rob Gronkowski just before halftime, when the Patriots, who came in averaging a league-leading 29 points per game, blew a chance to cut into Cleveland’s 10-point lead. 
With the game out of reach, Brady was replaced in the final minutes by Brian Hoyer. 
McCoy, making his third straight start, had his best game as a pro. The third-round pick completed 14 of 19 passes for 174 yards, and his TD run in the third gave the Browns a 24-7 lead. With no receivers open, McCoy tucked the ball and sprinted for the left corner. He covered the final few yards with a head­first dive, the kind of heads-up play that typified Cleveland’s day. 
Phil Dawson kicked field goals of 38 and 37 yards for the Browns, who may just be better than their record shows in their second season under Mangini. With the exception of a 28-10 loss to Pittsburgh, each of Cleveland’s losses has been by 10 points or fewer. 
After pulling off three trick plays two weeks ago to upset the defending Super Bowl champions in New Orleans, the Browns went back to their magic act to open a 17-7 lead. 
On first down at the New England 11, wide receiver Joshua Cribbs took the snap at quarterback and handed the ball to Chansi Stuckey, who had lined up directly behind Cleveland’s right guard. Stuckey took off toward the left corner, and by the time the fooled Patriots reacted, it was too late to catch the Browns' wide receiver, who beat them to the orange pylon. 
The gadget play wouldn't have been possible if not for McCoy avoiding a sack on third down and throwing a 6­yard pass to Cribbs for a first to keep the drive going. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 8, 2010 
Falcons 
continued from page 16 
good, as freshman Camden Wojtala fired a rebound to put the Falcons two clear of the Irish. A late goal from junior right wing Billy Maday was not enough to keep the Irish from losing their first match in five contests. 
“We were a little sloppy with the puck,” Jackson said. “With a team that’s as young as this, we have to make sure they’re emotionally prepared. When you’re a freshman, everything in your life is moving at 100 miles per hour. That’s shown up the last two Fridays.” 
The squad shook off Friday’s setback in convincing fashion on Saturday, as Tynan and sen­ior wing Ryan Guentzel each had three points to lead the Irish to a 6-3 win. 
“I think [the team] was prob­ably a little upset about the way they played on Friday night,” Jackson said. “We made some line changes and some changes on special teams as well. There was a lot more attention to detail, and I thought we were much better at controlling tempo.” 
The six Irish goals in the game came from six different players, as Tynan and Guentzel were joined on the score sheet by freshmen David Gerths and Anders Lee, junior Sean Lorenz 
Dealy 
continued from page 16 
each tallied 12 kills, while Eppink added eight. Dealy also contributed a total 34 digs, fol­lowed by junior libero Frenchy Silva, who chipped in 25. 
The impressive statistics con­tinued at home against the Panthers (24-2, 14-0 Missouri Valley), as three Irish players had 12 or more kills and three had nine or more digs. McHugh and senior Calle Ridderwall. The Irish trailed 2-1 after the first period, but scored three times in a period of six minutes in the second to pull clear of Bowling Green. Though Falcons junior forward James McIntosh narrowed the deficit to 4-3 early in the third, goals from Ridderwall and Lee — both assisted by Tynan — ensured the Irish win. 
“[Tynan] is a very talented player, and like Ridderwall, he combines that talent with intensity,” Jackson said. “He may not be the biggest guy in the world, but he plays big. He’s going to be a very good college hockey player.” 
Saturday’s win snapped a four-game winless streak for the Irish against the Falcons, as Notre Dame went 0-2-2 in the previous four contests. Jackson said Bowling Green played disciplined under first-year head coach Chris Bergeron. 
“He’s doing a good job there,” Jackson said. “Their team plays a very disciplined style. They transition well, and their goaltending is very strong. The fact that we rebounded on Saturday was important to me, being a young team.” 
The Irish will be back in action against No. 6 Michigan in Ann Arbor Friday. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 


Senior outside hitter Kristen Dealy attempts a spike during Notre Dame’s loss to Northern Iowa Sunday in the Purcell Pavilion. 

led the squad with 12 kills and 16 digs, followed closely by Dealy’s 14 kills and 11 digs and Eppink’s 14 kills. 
Notre Dame heads into the final two matches of its confer­ence season next weekend, as it travels to Rutgers and Seton Hall on Nov. 13 and 14 with the hopes of ending the season on a high note before the Big East championships commence on Nov. 19. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
TOM LA/The Observer 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish dominate tournament 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 

Competing in the second-to -last event of the fall semester, the Irish racked multiple victories at the Midwest Blast as they pre­pare for the season’s mid­year transition. 
The squad only dropped one match on the third and final round of play Sunday in three doubles and five sin­gles matches, following Friday’s impressive showing of seven singles wins and two doubles wins. 
The weekend tournament, hosted by the University of Illinois at the Atkins Tennis Center, concluded with strong performances in both singles and doubles competi­tion. The pair of senior Kristen Rafael and freshman Britney Sanders began action Sunday morning by beating the Illinois duo of Rachael White and Misia Kedzierski 8-2. 
The winning streak contin­ued with sophomore Chrissie McGaffigan and freshman Jennifer Kellner, who tri­umphed over Chelcie Abajian and Amy Allin of Illinois by a score of 8-4. The lone loss of the day came from senior Shannon Mathews and freshman Julie Sabacinski, who fell to Leigh Finnegan and Allison Falkin in an 8-6 match. 
In singles competition, the Irish won all five matches on Sunday. Highlights included Rafael’s 6-1, 6-2 victory over Oklahoma’s Whitney Ritchie, McGaffigan’s 6-2, 6-3 win 
over Oklahoma’s Mia Lancaster and Kellner’s 6-4, 6-2 win over Tara Eckel. 
“My personal highlight was the moment I won my last match,” Rafael said. “It marked my last fall tourna­ment of my career. I wanted to end with a win. I was very proud and sad, but mostly excited for the spring sea-

PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Senior Brittany Sanders utilizes her backhand during the Eck Tennis Classic Oct. 7 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
son.” Championships at the USTA 
The final singles victory Billie Jean King National came from Sanders, who Tennis Center. The competi­took her opponent into three tion consisted of the top 32 
sets, beating Maria Kalashnikova 

from “Illinois had the Oklahoma by 
intensity of a dual
a score of 6­1, 4-6, 6-0. match and made us all 
While the rise to our best abili­final day of 
ties.” 
play brought great strides for the team, JoHanna Manningham 
the previous Irish freshman two did as well. The Irish found singles players in the country. She fell in her round of 16 match against Texas sopho ­more Aeriel Ellis by a score of 7-5, 6-1. 
“I didn’t play bad, but I did-n’t play well e i t h e r, ” Frilling said. “I beat Ellis 
their toughest opponent in Friday’s matchup against Illinois. 
Despite the tougher com­petition, the Irish came away with eight wins on the initial day against the Illini, falling in only one match. 
“Illinois had the intensity of a dual match and made us all rise to our best abilities,” freshman JoHanna Manningham said. 
Junior Kristy Frilling was absent from the competition, as she traveled to Flushing, 
N.Y., for the USTA/ITA National Indoor 
game — that will be the end of their season.”In the first 
Big East 

round of the tournament, continued from page 16 Marquette (7 -8-4, 3-4-2) 
upset Saint John’s before Dame (10 -4-4, 5-2-1 Big traveling to South Bend, East) in the 66th minute as where they again found he headed in a shot set up themselves as the under ­by junior midfielder dogs on the field. Brendan King. “They were firing,” Clark 
“It was good offense said. “It was never going to throughout be an easy the game, ” game, but I Clark said. thought we “We had handled it changes, and well. I thought their goal -we matched 
“It was good offense
k e e p e r their energy 
throughout the game. 
played really and we con ­well. It was We had changes, and trolled the a very com-game really 
their goalkeeper 
petitive from start to 
played really well.” 
game, a very finish. It was a exciting tight game, it game.” Bobby Clark was a close 
Notre game.” 
Irish coach 
Dame played The Irish well in the held the first half and Golden Eagles headed into to one goal halftime throughout the with a 1-0 advantage. game by battling for every Senior forward Jeb Brovsky loose ball and forcing them opened the scoring in the out of their style of play. match with an unassisted Marquette managed to level goal only eight minutes into the score at one in the 53rd the contest. minute of play on a Bryan “For them it was a crucial Ciesiulka score, but never 
earlier in the season back in October, so I was hoping to come out with the same result. She played well, but I didn’t take the advantages I had in the first set, and then I just couldn’t get a rhythm from then on.” 
Frilling will compete in another tournament in France in December. Additionally, Sabacinski and McGaffigan will play in the Sarasota Clay Courts tourna­ment from Nov. 12-14. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 

posed a serious threat afterwards. 
“Defending starts with [senior forward Steven] Perry up front — that ’s where the whole thing begins,” Clark said. “It real­ly starts with the forwards, and then whole team defends. That’s the key to the way we play. We ’re doing that very well at the moment.” 
The Irish tallied 25 shots, including 12 on goal, while the Golden Eagles only managed to get off 12 shots in total and only two for Irish goalie senior captain Phil Tuttle to take care of. 
“[Tuttle] wasn ’t over ­worked as far as shots were concerned,” Clark said. “I think he controlled the penalty box really well. He was very calm and confi ­
d e n c e  t h r o u g h o u t  t h e  
game.”  
T h e  I r i s h  w i l l  f a c e  

Louisville Friday in the semifinals at Red Bull Arena in Harrison, N.J., in their fourth consecutive conference semifinals appearance. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

Monday, November 8, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Monday, November 8, 2010 page 16 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Flying past the Eagles 
Notre Dame beats  
Marquette in quarters  
By MOLLY SAMMON  
Sports Writer  
The Irish won their third  
game in a row Saturday to  
extend their unbeaten streak  
to five games in the home- 
h o s t e d B ig E a s t ch a mp i - 
onships quarterfinals. The  
s qu a d ’s 2 -1 v i c t o r y ov e r  
Marquette moves it one step  
closer towards the ultimate  
goal of becoming the confer­ 
ence champion.  
“It was a very good game,  
and I think the team played  
very well,” Irish coach Bobby  
Clark said.  
“It was an excellent result  
— good performance, a good  
result and it’ll take us into  
t he B i g Ea s t F i n al F o u r.  
That’s a nice situation to be  
in.”  
Sophomore defender Grant  
Van de Casteele scored the  
winning goal for No. 12 Notre  PAT COVENEY/The Observer  
see BIG EAST/page 14  Irish senior defender Bilal Duckett clears the ball during Notre Dame’s 2-1 Big East tournament quarterfnal victory over Marquette Saturday in Alumni Stadium.  
No. 13 Northern Iowa, Villanova take down Notre Dame 


MEN’S TENNIS 

Squadsplits up for two matchups 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 

Concluding the final weekend of team competition in the fall season, a split squad competed and excelled in both the Alabama Invitational and the William and Mary Invitational. Senior Stephen Havens finished the weekend undefeated in Virginia, where the Irish took on Maryland, the College of Charleston and host William and Mary. 
“Maryland is a middle of the road team in the ACC with a lot of foreign players,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “We won 21 of 26 singles matches and had strong performances from [freshman] Billy Pecor and Stephen Havens. [Senior] Dan Stahl was injured and did not play on day one, but did partici­pate the last two days of the 
see STAHL/page 13 

ND VOLLEYBALL 

Andrea McHugh said. “We The Panthers also defeated The Irish offense faced one of Eppink felt that the team
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 

probably played one of our bet-the Irish on senior day in 2004. its toughest individual oppo-worked to adjust by “taking
Sports Writer 

ter matches against Northern Despite falling twice over the nents yet in Wildcat libero Kim care of the little things on our Iowa today because we were weekend, the Irish (15-11, 8-4 Maroon. As Notre Dame’s kill side of the net and making 
Despite pushing themselves to playing loose and having fun.” Big East) refuse to get discour-leader, McHugh found this espe-every contact better than the the limit against each opponent, “Playing loose and having aged this late in the season. cially frustrating. last.” the Irish fell to Villanova 3-1 on fun” produced the highest-scor-“We know, especially after “Villanova is a great defensive Although Notre Dame dis-Friday and No. 13 Northern ing three-set match in the 25-playing Northern Iowa, that we team, with a very talented played some of its weaknesses, Iowa 3-0 Sunday. point scoring era of the pro-can compete at a really high libero that doesn’t let the ball it had some of its strongest sta­
“Even though our team lost gram, as the Irish fell 3-0 (27-level and that we have to main-fall very often,” she said. tistical performances in each two matches this weekend any-25, 27-25, 29-27) while honor-tain that level going into the “Especially as an outside hitter, match. Against Villanova (21-6, one that saw either of our ing the team’s four seniors, [Big East] tournament if we it was frustrating trying to find 9-3), McHugh, Sciacca and jun-matches would say that we Megan Dunne, Angela Puente, want to be successful,” sopho-a place where I could hit and ior outside hitter Kristen Dealy played pretty hard and aggres-Kellie Sciacca and Stephanie more middle blocker Hilary score.” sive,” freshman outside hitter Slatt. Eppink said. Against such stiff competition, see DEALY/page 14 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Hansbrough scores 30 in win 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Carried by a 30-point per­formance from senior guard Ben Hansbrough, Notre Dame completed the second of two preseason exhibitions by beat­ing Catholic University 72-47 

Saturday  in  the  Purcell  
Pavilion.  
“I  got  hot  early,”  

Hansbrough said. “Just kept on shooting, just taking what the defense was there. Just hit a couple tonight.” 
The Irish attack was unre­lenting throughout, and Notre Dame was able to showcase its new, multi-faceted offense. Hansbrough’s impressive per­formance behind the arc was 
see ARC/page 13 


HOCKEY 

Bowling Green wins one of two over Irish 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 

The Irish split a pair of road games with an especially motivated Bowling Green squad over the weekend, dropping a 3-2 decision Friday night before bouncing back to win 6-3 Saturday. 
“[The Falcons] came off two losses up in Alaska,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “So I think they got real emotional at home trying to knock us off.” 
The Falcons (4-6-0, 1-5-0-0 CCCHA) got on the board first in the opening period, as a scramble in front of Notre Dame sophomore goalkeeper Mike Johnson led to a goal for Bowling Green freshman Marc Rodriguez. 
Neither team found the back of the net in the second period, but the scoring resumed in the third. Falcons freshman Jordan Samuels-Thomas powered a wrist shot past Johnson midway through the third to give Bowling Green a 2-0 lead before Irish freshman center T.J. Tynan lit the lamp on a power play to inch No. 11 Notre Dame (6-2­1, 4-1-1-1 CCHA) closer just two minutes later. 
The Falcons came back with a power play goal of their own to pull away for 
see FALCONS/page 14 





