the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


University responds to contract lawsuit 
Administration claims former professor used grant money to take pornographic photographs 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
The University claimed for­mer Notre Dame professor Oliver Collins was fired because he used $190,000 of grant and University money to purchase equipment that he used to take pornographic photographs in a recently filed legal response a breach of contract lawsuit filed by Collins. 
Collins became a tenured electrical engineering profes­sor at Notre Dame in 1995, was officially dismissed in June 2010 and filed a lawsuit 
see COLLINS/page 5 




Dining Hall adds low calorie options 
think we’ve addressed a lot of those issues in the changes we made this year,” he said. 
One noticeable change to the dining hall menu is the addi­tion of red pepper hummus, which Poklinkowski said has been extremely popular so far this year. He said that all of the hummus is made by the Food Service support facility right off campus. 
“There’s a possibility that we will make different types of specialty hummus in the future,” he said. 
Student body president Catherine Soler said student government, aware of how 
see FOOD/page 6 
Police arrest 23 students at party 
Observer Staff Report 
Twenty-three students were arrested for minor consumption of alcohol at an off-campus party Friday night. 
South Bend police received a call of a noise complaint at the 1300 Block of North St. Joseph St., the police report said. When police arrived, those attending the party began to flee the premises. 
“As officers were pulling up, a bunch of people went tearing out of the house, out the back door,” Sgt. Anne Schellinger said. 
Police entered the house and allowed those who could prove they were at least 21 years old to leave the party. Those who were underage were asked to take a portable breathalyzer test. 
The Indiana State Excise Police were not involved. 
The suspects were 18 to 20 years old and were taken to St. Joseph County Jail. A list of blood alcohol contents was not available. 
This incident raises the number of students arrested for minor con­suming since returning to school to 
26. Three students were arrested for minor consuming last week­end. 
Police also busted a party in July at 1017 East Washington St. and took 43 people to jail for various alcohol charges. Those arrested included eight football players, one basketball player and nine hockey players. 


By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame Food Services worked this summer to add more low calorie and multicul­tural options to the dining hall menus, responding to student demand for healthier options. 
Marc Poklinkowski, general manager of South Dining Hall Food Services, said the changes were made directly in response to the student sur­veys that are completed at the end of each semester. 
“If I had to sum up what the four to five hundred students said on the survey, it’s, ‘OK, we need to get healthier.’ I 



B1 Block Party features Guster, Mayer Hawthorne 

By CAITLYN KALSCHEUR 
News Writer 
With a lineup of star acts and the volume cranked all the way up, it was difficult to be on campus Saturday night and not know the B1 Block Party was happening. 
The B1 Block Party, Legends Night Club’s annual open -air event, kicked off the first weekend of the school year. 
Live music played through­out the night, with local acts Nick Gunty and Identity Crisis opening the stage for Mayer Hawthorne and the headlining act, Guster. 
“There was a fun concert feel during Guster,” sopho-
COLEMAN COLLINS/The Observer 
Guster’s Adam Gardner performs as part of the headlining act of the B1 Block Party Saturday. see B1/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Architecture School explores disabilities page 4  Arcade Fire review page 10  Women’s volleyballs falls to Arizona page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, August 30, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Off-campus adjustments 
I thought that by senior year, I knew exactly how to move into col­lege and get settled to begin classes. 
But then I moved off campus. 
While freshmen try to find their way to DeBartolo, balance their trays and find seats in the dining halls, and learn to get along with room­mates, off-campus students are going through similar learning process­es. 

Laura McCrystal 
We may have dorm and campus 
News Editor
life figured out, but in the past two weeks my room­mates and I have had to furnish and setup an entire house, utility bills, cable television, Internet and a secu­rity system. 
Many other off-campus seniors might not be willing to admit it — we all love having our own houses or apartments free of communal bath­rooms, quiet hours and parietals — but there is a definite convenience to on-campus living that I already miss. 
I sat on the floor of my living room for two hours Saturday afternoon on the telephone with a wireless Internet router company as a repre­sentative took control of my comput­er screen and configured a network connection. That amount of time made me realize I missed Notre Dame’s ever-present and readily available wireless Internet. 
On the first day of classes when my roommates accidentally set off our alarm at 7 a.m. (understandably so; we hadn’t taught her how it worked), I missed the security of not even having to lock my dorm room door. 
As I cruised around the C parking lot searching for a parking space and then rushed from the parking lot to class, I realized that even my old home on Mod Quad is a pretty conve­niently located. I also felt strangely like a senior in high school — that was the last time I ever drove to school. 
Don’t mistake these instances for regret that I moved away from cam­pus — I love my house. I can cook my own dinner, share a bathroom with one other girl instead of 40 and blast music in the middle of the night if my roommates and I feel like hav­ing a spontaneous dance party. And I have a bedroom to myself that is much larger than the size of a room I had to share in the dorms. 
When I mention to my parents the difficulties of getting settled in my new home, they tell me, “You chose to live in a house. Welcome to the real world.” 
Moving off campus has its pluses and minuses, but above all else, it is just another part of the college learning experience, a baby step into the real world. When I (hopefully) I have a real job and a place of my own after graduation, I’ll have a bet­ter idea of what to do. In the mean­time, I will not be taking my trips to the dining hall for granted. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmc­cryst@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE PART ABOUT BEING BACK AT SCHOOL? 






Allie Hensley  Annie Reagan  Katie Brown  Kelsey Smoleck  Olivia Killian  Victoria Darling  
senior  junior  senior  junior  junior  sophomore  
Holy Cross  Holy Cross  Annunciata  Holy Cross  Holy Cross  Holy Cross  
“I am extremely excited for my student teaching placement with  “Rollin’ with the homies, goldie included.”  “Being a senior.”  “Co-ex tickets ... Never mind they took themaway!”  “Friends, football and Blinkie Bob!”  “Having a roomie again.”  
my fourth grade  

class!” 
Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

GRACE KENESEY/The Observer Saint Mary’s College celebrates Opening Mass Wednesday. Pictured above is the presentation of the fine art production of The Saint John's Bible, commissioned in 1998 by the Benedictine Monks. 
OFFBEAT 
Mileage jump has couple wondering where car’s been 
NEW YORK — A couple who left their car parked in a long-term lot near Kennedy Airport during a trip to California were try­ing to figure out what their car has been doing without them. Mimi and Ulrich Gunthart said their car odometer reading jumped by 724 miles while they were out of town. Ulrich Gunthart said he was “flabbergasted” when he saw the number. Another surprise: when they returned to the car and started it up, a music CD came on at full volume. 
David Menter, a regional manager for AviStar park­ing, said the company investigated and looked over inventory logs but “found nothing out of the ordinary.” 
He said there have been no similar claims by other customers, and the compa­ny will be reviewing its procedures. 
The Guntharts said the incident won’t stop them from parking at the lot again. 
Mistaken identity jails pastor for eight hours 
SHREVEPORT, La. —A series of unfortunate coin­cidences led to a case of mistaken identity that put a Louisiana minister behind bars for nearly eight hours. Gregory Jones, pastor at Eden Worship Center, was pulled over for speeding and arrested as a man wanted for violating parole in Texas. The minis­ter not only had the same name as the wanted man, but the same birthdate — and a Texas driver’s license. So he wound up handcuffed and taken to a Shreveport jail. 
Jones said deputies treat­ed him well and assured him they were checking his claims. A photograph and fingerprint check eventual­ly confirmed he wasn’t the wanted man. 
Caddo Lt. Don Gibbs said the department was sorry for Jones’ inconvenience but committed to ensuring wanted criminals don’t accidentally go free. 
Today Tonight Tuesday wednesday 

IN BRIEF 
The Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning and the Career Center are holding a workshop “What Can We Do For You?” today from 5:30 p.m. to 6:15 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center Ballroom. Registration is required. Please register online at kaneb.nd.edu 
Ning Lin, a postdoctoral fel­low at the MIT department of Earth, Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences, will present the next installment of the Environmental Fluid Dynamics Seminar Series Tuesday at 
11:00 a.m. in Fitzpatrick Hall room 258. 
RecSports will offer an infor­mation session on its “Scuba Instructional Training Class” Tuesday from 5:30 p.m. to 7 
p.m. in Rockne Memorial Room 110. 
Students interested in joining one of Notre Dame’s 250+ undergraduate clubs and organizations can attend Activities Night Tuesday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
Online registration begins for RecSports instructional classes Wednesday at 7:30 a.m. Classes are open to all ND students, faculty, staff, retirees, and their spouses.Visit: http://recsports.nd.edu/ to reg­ister. 
Kirk Cordill, managing direc­tor and CEO of BMW Group Financial Services China will discuss current business issues in his lecture Thursday at 7:30 
p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
thursday friday 

Monday, August 30, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 3 page 4 The Observer  NEWS Monday, August 30, 2010 

SMC hosts internat’l social 

By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
The College Student Diversity Board hosted its first ever inter­national meet and greet and ice cream social Sunday. 
The event welcomed new and returning international students. 
At least five countries were represented at the event: Australia, Korea, Bolivia, Peru and Mexico. 
Students and faculty mingled from table to table, sharing ice cream and conversation with the new students. Some Saint Mary’s students shared their own stories about studying abroad. 
“I think it’s really important that the students hosted this event, so the international stu­dents wouldn’t feel shy to ask questions,” Morgan Gay, a senior on the Student Diversity Board, said. 
Conversation topics at the tables varied from weekend activities to questions about the international students’ experi­ences in their home countries. The international students dis­cussed how life is different in the United States. 
Sarah Power, an international student from Australia studying law, noted a big difference in the classes in the U.S. versus Australia. 
“It’s the little things that are different, like the other day when our teacher mentioned the First Amendment, we didn’t know what that was,” she said. “Or, it’s certain words like ‘Congress.’” 
Some international students said dorm life is significantly dif­ferent, especially those who had lived at home. 
“We would never think about going to class in our pajamas back home, so I brought mainly dress clothes,” Power said. 
For some international stu­dents, Saint Mary’s is their first time in college. 
“I studied here my senior year of high school and am now studying as a college freshman here, but I did get to go home for the two months of break,” Carolina Tapia Nieto, a freshman international student from Peru, said. 
Kelly Reidenbach, the vice president of the Student Diversity Board, emphasized the impor­tance current Saint Mary’s stu­dents play in helping these stu­dents, and she also mentioned the importance that international students play in helping Saint Mary’s students. 
“I’m a junior and have only met a few international students in my time here so far,” she said. “This event is a great way for students to learn about each other’s cultures.” 
Contact Caitlyn Housley at Chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Obama reflects on New Orleans revival 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — Five years after the ravaging storm, President Barack Obama celebrated New Orleans’s revival from Hurricane Katrina on Sunday and pledged common purpose with residents in the continu­ing struggle to protect and rebuild the Gulf Coast. 
Obama declared to those who dedicated themselves to their city’s recovery: “Because of you, New Orleans is coming back.” 
And he pledged: “My admin­istration is going to stand with you and fight alongside you until the job is done. “ 
Implicit in his remarks was an indictment of sorts against his predecessor’s administra­tion for its handling of the cri­sis. Obama called Katrina and its aftermath not just a natu­ral disaster but “a manmade catastrophe — a shameful breakdown in government that left countless men, women, and children aban­doned and alone.” 
Obama spoke at Xavier University, an institution wracked with debris and floodwaters in August 2005, but soon back in operation. New Orleans, he said, has become a “symbol of resilience and community.” 
The storm killed more than 1,800 people along the Gulf coast, most in Louisiana, and flooded 80 percent of New Orleans. 
Obama ticked off progress: A fortified levee system set to be finished next year, a dra­matic decline in families still living in emergency housing, rising achievement in the city’s public schools, a surge in small businesses making New Orleans one of the nation’s fastest growing cities. 
On the other hand, he said: “I don’t have to tell you that there are still too many vacant and overgrown lots. There are still too many stu­dents attending classes in trailers. There are still too many people unable to find work. And there are still too many New Orleanians who have not been able to come home.” 
After years in which halting progress mixed often with set­backs and despair, the city was getting back on its feet when the BP oil spill dealt another blow. The exploded well spewed more than 200 million gallons (800 million liters) of crude into the Gulf before it was capped in mid-July. 
Obama’s challenge was to reassure residents who remain skeptical of govern­ment promises after witness­ing former President George 
W. Bush’s response to Katrina, which was widely criticized as inept. Although criticism of Obama’s response to the Gulf oil spill rarely reached the level of anger directed at Bush, some still saw it as lacking in speed and coordi­nation. 
To a region weary of calami­ty, Obama pledged, too, to “stand with you until the oil is cleaned up, the environment is restored, polluters are held accountable, communities are made whole, and this region is back on its feet.” 

page 5 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, August 30, 2010 
Collins 
continued from page 1 
against the University for breach of contract on July 12. 
Notre Dame’s response, filed Aug. 18 in the U.S. District Court in South Bend, makes a counterclaim of fraud against Collins. 
The University’s allegations state Collins used National Science Foundation (NSF) grants and University match­ing funds to purchase at least seven cameras, lenses, a print­er and other computer equip­ment. 
“Collins took many of these cameras and accessories to his home and used them exten­sively in pursuit of his person­al hobby of photography, including taking landscape and pornographic photo­graphs,” the counterclaim states. 
The University also alleged Collins was dishonest in reporting his use of funds. 
The University’s claim states that in his written proposal and budget, Collins misrepre­sented to NSF and the University that he intended to use the federal grant funds to purchase several different pieces of high, mixed signal test equipment, consisting of data generators, network ana­lyzers and signal analyzers. 
“Collins did not identify digi­tal cameras, camera acces­sories or printers in his pro­posal or budget,” the University’s court document states. 
Collins’ original complaint says the University’s findings against him did not merit the “serious cause” required by the University’s Academic Articles to dismiss a tenured professor. 
He also claimed damages to his personal and professional reputation, as well as being subjected to public ridicule. 
While Collins was not offi­cially dismissed from the 
University until “We’ve made our committee in June 2010, April 2010. The 
position clear in our
court docu-decision resulted 
response to his
ments state that in a unanimous the chair of the lawsuit and we’re vote by the com-Electrical mittee that dis-
confident in that 
Engineering missal for seri­
position.” 
Department ous cause was began an warranted. inquiry into his Dennis Brown Collins appealed purchases with the decision, and 
University spokesman 
NSF grant money and University matching funds in July 2009. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins informed Collins in an Aug. 24, 2009 correspondence that he was suspended with pay from his rights and privi­leges as a professor and was locked out of his lab and office. 
Collins received a letter from Associate Provost Donald Pope-Davis in September 2009 informing him that the University would seek “dis­missal for serious cause,” based on the conclusion of six specific acts. These acts include failure to inform NSF of the equipment he purchased and taking and storing sexual­ly explicit and pornographic images on University equip­ment. 
Following this letter, there were two December 2009 tele­phone conferences: between Pope-Davis and Collins and between Collins and members of the Academic Council to “attempt informal resolution of the matter,” as is part of the procedures in the University’s Academic Articles. 
After the informal resolution process did not succeed, the 
case went before 
a faculty hearing 
an appeal board 
supported the hearing committee’s findings. 
The appeal board submitted a report to Jenkins, who dis­missed Collins in a June 2 let­ter. 
“I accept their findings and dismiss you as a faculty mem­ber of the University of Notre Dame effective immediately,” Jenkins wrote in the letter. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said the University is confident in its answer and counterclaim to the lawsuit. 
“We’ve made our position clear in our response to his lawsuit and we’re confident in that position,” Brown said. “And we’re equally confident that our process throughout the matter is thorough and fair.” 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
ND MBA program wins ‘military-friendly’ 
Special to The Observer 
The University’s MBA pro­gram at the Mendoza College of Business has been recognized as a “2011 Military Friendly School,” an honor awarded to the top 15 percent of colleges, universities and trade schools. 
G.I. Jobs compiles the annual list of schools, which range from state universities and pri­vate colleges to community col­leges and trade schools that “are doing the most to embrace America’s veterans as stu­dents.” 
“The military values of integrity, leadership, excellence and community are perfectly aligned with the values espoused by our MBA student body,” said Edward J. Conlon, associate dean for Graduate Studies of the Mendoza College of Business. “The Notre Dame program provides an excellent fit and a great opportunity for current and former members of the military services, and we are deeply honored to be described as ‘military friendly.’” 
The entire list of Military Friendly Schools is available online at mili­taryfriendlyschools.com/2011lis 
t. Criteria for making the list included efforts to recruit and retain military and veteran stu­dents, results in recruiting mili­tary and veteran students and academic accreditations. Schools on the Military Friendly Schools list also offer additional benefits to student veterans such as on-campus veterans programs, credit for service, military spouse programs and more. 
“This list is especially impor­tant now because the post-9/11 GI Bill has given veterans virtu­ally unlimited financial means to go to school,” said Rich McCormack, G.I. Jobs publish­er. “Veterans can now enroll in any school, provided they’re academically qualified. So schools are clamoring for them like never before. Veterans need a trusted friend to help them decide where to get edu­cated. The Military Friendly Schools list is that trusted friend.” 
G.I. Jobs polled more than 7,000 schools nationwide to compile the list, which will be highlighted in the annual Guide to Military Friendly Schools dis­tributed to thousands of active and former military personnel in late September. Methodology, criteria and weighting for the list were developed with the assistance of an Academic Advisory Board (AAB) consist­ing of educators from a number of universities and training schools, as well as directors of agencies associated with mili­tary and educational programs, such as Keith Wilson, Veteran Affairs’ director of education. More information can be found at militaryfriendlyschools.com. 

page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, August 30, 2010 
B1 
music before, but Guster sounded really good, and 
they were high-energy and continued from page 1 fun to watch” sophomore Ben Galloway said. more Emily Golden said. Legends also brought in a Guster’s set lasted over an Velcro wall, Euro Bungy, a 
h o u r  a n d  p h  o t  o  
c o n c l u d e d  b o o t h ,  
with a stan­dard encore a n d w h a t  “I don’t remember there being as many other activi- C a s h Cube and r o c k - 
Guster lead singer Ryan M i l l e r c a l l e d “ a real encore”  ties besides just the concert last year, so this year’s Block Party was definitely more fun.”  c l i m b i n g w a l l f o r s t u d e n t s t o e n j o y d u r i n g  
w h e r e  t h e  t  h  e  
c l a p p i n g a n d c h e e r -i n g o f s t u - Stefan Hogle sophomore  e v e n t . A N o t r e D a m e  
dents  actu- tailgating  
ally brought  s t a p l e ,  

the band out for a few more Corn Hole was set up for a songs. little friendly competition. “I’ve never heard their “I don’t remember there 
being as many other activi­ties besides just the concert last year, so this year ’s Block Party was definitely more fun, ” sophomore Stefan Hogle said. “The Euro Bungy was really fun and really tiring.” 
ND Concessions, Chick-Fil-A, Papa Murphy’s Pizza and Jimmy Johns Gourmet Sandwiches were available all night. Chick -Fil -A brought along their cow mascot who was spotted dancing around to the night’s musical acts. 
After Guster concluded, Notre Dame’s DJ 3J and DJ Whoo Kid of G-Unit Records lit up the turntables and gave a nightclub that lasted until 4 a.m. 
Contact Caitlyn Kalscheur at ckalsche@nd.edu 

Food 
continued from page 1 
popular hummus is with stu­dents, worked to provide more flavor options. 
“One of our platform ideas was better hummus, and we expressed this to Notre Dame Food Services. We found out that they actually made hum­mus in the plant off campus, and that there were new oppor­tunities available there,” she said. “In the end we decided on red pepper hummus.” 
Poklinkowski said a notable change is the addition of Greek and Indian cuisine. 
“The Pan-American station is turned to Greek food once every twelve days. We did that to break up the monotony,” he said. “All day we have gyros, spanakopita, pita chips, spicy feta, spicy Mediterranean rel­ish, among other Greek foods.” 
Every 12 days, Indian cuisine will replace the homestyle line, Poklinkowski said. 
“We had quite a few people [on the survey] ask for Indian foods,” he said. “One of the managers at the dining hall is Indian, so he came up with some home recipes. The unit chef over at North worked with him to put [those recipes] into Notre Dame terms.” 
Tuesday is the first day South Dining Hall will serve Indian cuisine. Indian beef, chicken and vegetarian dishes will be offered, in addition to sides and rices. 
Poklinkowski said small changes have also been made to the salad line at South. 
“At the end of the salad line we are going to have a second variety salad, for example a buffalo chicken salad, a tomato walnut salad or a chicken Caesar, kind of like the ones that are prepared for lunch at North,” he said. “We are still figuring out the logistics … we don’t have the space to make them made-to-order.” 
Other changes this year, Poklinkowski said, include new Sunkist flavored waters, craisins at the end of the salad line and “skinny buns” (90-calo­rie pita buns) on the deli line. 
Tina Aalfs, operations manag­er of North Dining Hall Food Services, said North Dining Hall will integrate the Indian and Mediterranean cuisines into its menu after fall break. 
“We’re planning on running each concept four days at a time, so we’ll have Indian for four days, Mediterranean for four days and Mexican for four days.” 
For now, the biggest changes at North Dining Hall are appar­ent from the moment you walk in the building. 
“Physically, the building’s changed,” she said. “[Over the summer] they painted the walls and installed new carpeting.” 
While the new paint and car­pet jobs are certainly cause for excitement, regular North Dining Hall-goers say they are ecstatic about the return of the spoons to their regular spot beside the forks and knives. 
“Last year, I accidentally would take two forks because they did not have spoons on the utensil tray,” junior Rebecca Huffer said. “It’s nice to get my utensils all in one place now.” 
Cereal enthusiasts who love to mix and match should be aware that five cereals provided last semester will go out of rotation by the end of September. 
“We keep our 15 heaviest used cereals, and the bottom five rotate out each year,” Poklinkowski said. “Rice Krispies, Apple Jacks, Cocoa Krispies, Rice Chex, Captain Crunch and Cheerios are the six that got voted out, so they will likely be gone in a month or so.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 

Monday, August 30, 2010 The Observer  NEWS page 7 
Teen killed in Indy crash 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — The death of a 13-year-old motorcycle rider at Indianapolis Motor Speedway cast a shadow over Sunday’s races at the historic track and prompted mourning competitors to defend the development system for the dangerous circuit. 
Peter Lenz of Vancouver, Wash., fell off his bike during the warmup lap for the day’s first race at Indianapolis and was run over by another motorcycle, driven by a 12-year-old. Medical workers immediately placed Lenz in a neck brace, put him on a stretcher and began chest compressions while taking him to a hospital. 
Several hours later, he was pro­nounced dead. 
The Marion County coroner’s office said Lenz died from blunt force trauma. More details could be released Monday following an autopsy on the youngest driver or rider ever killed at the 101-year­old speedway. 
“Peter passed away early this morning when he was apparently struck by another rider,” read a posting on Lenz’s Facebook page, which was signed “Dad.” 
“He passed doing what he loved and had his go fast face on as he pulled onto the track,” the posting said. “The world lost one of its brightest lights today. God Bless Peter and the other rider involved. 45 is on another road we can only hope to reach. Miss you kiddo.” 
Lenz rode the No. 45 bike, and his father was at the track Sunday. 
It was the first death at the track since IndyCar driver Tony Renna was killed in testing in October 2003. 
Lenz had emerged as one of America’s youngest rising stars. 
At age 11, he earned the “expert” license from the American Federation of Motorcyclists, and in March 2009, Lenz became the youngest rider ever to win an AFM race. This year, competing in the U.S. Grand Prix Racers Union series, Lenz had four wins, five podium finish­es and was leading the MD250H classification in points. 
The grown-up resume just did-n’t match his appearance. Listed at 4-foot-11 and 81 pounds, the baby-faced Lenz described his profession as “kid.” 
“Our hearts go out to the par­ents, family and friends of Peter Lenz,” speedway CEO Jeff Belskus said in a statement. “Words can­not adequately express the sad­ness of our company and our employees about this tragic inci­dent, and Peter is in our thoughts and prayers.” 
It wasn’t the first time Lenz was involved in a serious crash. 
A mechanical failure last season left Lenz with four broken bones and a severed radial nerve — all of which required surgery. By November, Lenz was healthy again and by spring, he was back in Victory Lane. 
The fatal accident almost cer­tainly will spark a debate about how young is too young for racers to be competing on one of the world’s best-known tracks, whether it’s inside a car or riding a motorcycle capable of exceeding 120 mph in a straightaway. 
The USGPRU sanctions races across the nation, billing itself as a development circuit for motorcy­cle racers from ages 12 to 18. The hope is these riders eventually will compete in a world-class series. 
Lenz seemed to be on his way to the top before the accident. He was struck by 12-year-old Xavier Zayat, of Flushing, N.Y., who escaped injury and did not race after the crash. 
“We are deeply saddened by this tragic loss, but know that Peter is racing even faster in the sky,” the Lenz family said in a statement. “Our thoughts and prayers are now with the other racer and his family, who were also involved in this tragedy.” 
Racers insist age has never been the issue. 
American Colin Edwards was running 250cc bikes at age 17, and Indy MotoGP runner-up Ben Spies was competing on the 125cc circuit at age 12. 
“That’s not like a bike too big for him, you know, I mean this is our sport, we chose to do it,” said American Nicky Hayden, the 2006 world champ who called the death “terrible.” 
“I mean, sure, we know going in the consequences.” 
But are new rules needed? 
Those in racing circles say no, comparing the sport to other potentially dangerous sports such as football and gymnastics. When asked about running at Indy, speedway officials pointed out that the series has stops at potentially more dangerous tracks. 
USGPRU officials said this was the first fatality in the series in nine years. 
Still, racing conditions were not ideal this weekend at Indy. 
Hot, dry weather turned the bumpy, 2.621-mile course into a slick track that tested the world’s best riders. 
Reigning world champ Valentino Rossi fell four times, including a spill Sunday morning during a 20-minute warmup ses­sion. Sunday’s Moto2 race was shortened after a big wreck on the first lap took out four drivers. 
“This was the most difficult race for everyone,” MotoGP winner Dani Pedrosa said. “The condi­tions were very hard because of the heat and the asphalt was very greasy.” 

Architecture School hosts Awareness Day 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
In order to help gain a better understanding of the needs of the disabled, fourth -year architecture students navigated campus hallways and sidewalks in wheelchairs, crutches and blindfolds Friday as part of the School of Architecture’s third annual Accessibility Awareness Day. 
“Our hope is that they would walk the walk with empathy and understand­ing of what people with various disabilities go through in their normal life,” architecture professor William Ponko said. 
Ponko said the School of Architecture worked with the Office of the University Architect and Notre Dame Disability Services in order to provide these students with a hands-on approach to learning about accessi­
bility design.  
A f t e r  s p e n d i n g  t h e i r  
m o r n i n g s  u s i n g  t h e i r  
w h e e l c h a i r s  a n d  o t h e r  

equipment, the architec ­ture students visited Notre Dame Stadium to see its accommodations for acces­sibility and then spent time discussing their observa­tions from the entire day. 
“Close to 50 percent of all American citizens will experience a disability within their lifetime, ” Ponko said. “Accessibility is not just an afterthought 
or a modification to a design.” 
Office for Students with Disabilities program coor­dinator Scott Howland said Accessibility Awareness Day gives students practi­cal experience to better accommodate for disabled individuals in future designs. 
“The original thought behind this was to go right to the source of who would be designing buildings in the future,” Howland said. “This is a way to get them thinking about how a per­son in a wheelchair might interact with certain designs.” 
Howland said the idea of universal design is the base for Accessibility Awareness Day. 
“[Architecture students] can learn to design some­thing from its beginning to be used by everybody,” he said. 
Senior Gina Paietta said her day in a wheelchair and on crutches was an “eye-opening experience” to the way she sees archi­tecture and design. 
“Someone entering a building in a wheelchair is not experiencing the build­ing in the same way as someone else, ” Paietta said. 
Architects face the chal­lenge of designing build­ings so a disabled individ­ual can engage in a design as similarly as possible to someone without a disabili­ty, she said. 
Paietta said students faced difficulties finding and navigating some of the campus ramps to enter classroom buildings and accessing the Grotto. 
Even with the minimum standards from the American Disability Association (ADA) in place in many buildings at Notre Dame, navigating an older campus designed before accessibility consciousness was an issue was difficult, Paietta said. 
Student feedback was presented to the offices of the University Architect and Disability Services, she said. 
“I think that as the stu­dents mature and go through their fourth and fifth -year projects, they design with awareness for people with disabilities,” Ponko said. 
Howland said the insight he heard from students after they returned their equipment spoke to the success of the day. 
“It was a way for us to see how we would change things, ” Paietta said. “I think everyone really did get a lot out of the project.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
NOAA gives ND research grant 
Special to The Observer 
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) has awarded $2.5 mil­lion to the University of Notre Dame and its partners to pre­dict the next wave of invasive species likely to enter the Great Lakes and to identify cost-effective countermea­sures. 
Invasive species such as zebra mussels are already a large problem, costing the Great Lakes region more than $200 million annually by dis­rupting fisheries and damag­ing waterway infrastructure by clogging water intake valves. Information generated by the study will help authori­ties prepare for new invasions and control current non­native populations. 
David M. Lodge, professor of biological sciences at Notre Dame and director of its Center for Aquatic Conservation, will serve as principal investigator for the project. He served as the first chair of the National Invasive Species Advisory Committee and was the lead author of the Ecological Society of America’s paper calling for a stronger government response to the problem of invasive species. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, August 30, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
Bursting the bubble 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Pat Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 djacobs1@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
At the start of every academic year, I, an upperclassman, pick up the first copy of The Observer that always reminds me of how much better the incoming class is than my class was 
— better ACT/SAT scores, better GPAs, more ath­letes, more 
Kevin Kimberly 
involvement in this and that, etc. And as I peruse this issue to see just how it is one could top the greatness that is the Class of 2011, I hope that with the higher level of ‘intelligence’ coming in, the same freshman mis­takes will not be made. But alas, I write to you today to inform you of the things that unite all incoming Notre Dame classes, regardless of scores on a test. 
The following list consists of things that plague our very campus, arguably more so than the several Viewpoint wars that will ensue about whether Notre Dame is Catholic enough or not. Admittedly so, I did commit one or two of these actions, but I was never lucky enough to hear it from an older and wiser Domer that these things were just not cool. Freshmen, I would like to provide that service to you today; upperclassmen, here’s to a blast from the past. 
Lanyard Wearing: You had to have seen this one coming. Wearing your lanyard, complete with key and ID, around your neck is the biggest fash­ion faux pas on this campus (along­side wearing North Face jackets and Ugg boots in my opinion). Frankly, it just looks dumb, and it makes me feel like I am at summer camp or travel­ing abroad. There are plenty of great places for these two very important things — in your bag/purse, in a wal­let, hanging from a pocket — but around your neck is not one of them. 
Map Walking: Walking around cam­pus with a full blown map hinders your ability to not run into others walking around you. It also makes you look like a lost puppy, which in this case is not a good thing. Take this coming from someone who still man­aged to get lost on campus at random times during spring semester of his freshman year, figure out your path beforehand and/or ask for directions. It makes everything smoother. 
Dining Hall Disruption: If there is one of these suggestions that you read carefully, let it be this one. The dining hall is a wondrous place, but that does not mean you should walk around as if there is no tomorrow casually chatting with friends while long lines of people wait for you to finish. This is something you will find juniors and seniors still have a prob­lem accomplishing. 
Football Game Chop: Though the first football game has not occurred, I am certain that after every first down, the freshman and sophomore areas of the student section will proceed to do the Florida State Chop. Newsflash, this is Notre Dame. The ‘Stop the Chop’ campaign has been an ongoing effort for several years to crush this at all Notre Dame football games; be part of the freshman class that does not embarrass themselves doing this. 
Talking About High School: I am sure some of you are nodding your head after reading this one, now hav­ing gone through Frosh-O. You now know how aggravating it is for that one kid to continually brag about what he or she got on the ACT/SAT or how much of a god he or she was in high school. Newsflash number two: No one cares nor does it really matter in this context anymore. Everyone got into the same school as you did, and you will waste opportunities to make new friends at this school if you con­stantly converse about those things. 
Early Dating: It always boggles my mind to see two freshmen dating within the first couple weeks. You do not even know that person, minus where they are from, what their major is, and what dorm they live in! In fact, the funniest parts of these sit­uations are when the ‘never saw it coming’ breakup happens. Dating someone in college can be great when you actually know the person you are dating. 
Despite my inability to welcome you properly with open arms and loving words, as our student and administra­tive leaders did, I am actually very glad you are here. Each of you will add something to this campus in a unique way. My copycat advice to you is to get involved and stay involved. Really, the truth is many seniors are quite jealous of the fact that you are just beginning college; four years goes by in the blink of an eye. Make the most of every moment. Also, be sure to make fun of and laugh at yourself from time to time; there will be many moments when this is appropriate (see above for examples). 
Kevin Kimberly is a senior. He can be reached at kkimberl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY’S STAFF News Sports QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Joseph McMahon Meaghan Veselik Sara Felsenstein Matthew Robison 
Sam Stryker Scene “The self is not something Graphics Maija Gustin ready-made, but something in Melissa Kaduck Viewpoint continuous formation throughchoice of action.” 
Ren Brauweiler 
John Dewey 
U.S. philosopher 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Not everything made you stronger.It was possible to survive, yet stillbe crippled for your trouble.Sometimes it was okay to run away,to skip the test, to chicken out,or at least to get some help.” 
Scott Westerfeld 
U.S. author 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
Monday, August 30, 2010 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Not xenophobia 
How could Mr. Coccia see oppo­sition to the “Ground Zero Mosque” as xenophobia and imply that those that oppose the building are somehow racist and inherently close minded? (“Islamic Center a step in the right direction,” Aug. 25) Even moderate Muslims recognize that it is disrespectful to put a mosque that close to the twin towers site at this point in time. There are already plenty of Islamic places of worship in the city of New York so it is not a question of religious freedom. The fact of the matter is that radical followers of Islam will view this new mosque as a monument to a great victory over America, which is a slap in the face to everyone that died that day. In addition, the Imam in charge of the formerly called “Cordoba Initiative,” Cordoba being a great victory site of Muslim invaders in southern Spain, has been quoted as being sympathetic to Islamic terrorist groups like Hamas and blames America as being an “accessory” to the 9/11 attacks. The scale and leadership of this project screams disrespect, which is why main­stream Americans are rightfully up in arms. 
Mark Easley 
junior Keenan Hall Aug. 25 
Let’s be realistic here... 
This is in response to Daniel Collins’ letter from Friday’s issue of The Observer, (“Show some faith,” Aug. 27) Let me start off by saying that I am a fourth gen­eration student here at the University of Notre Dame, so I was born and raised an Irish fan right here in Indiana, and I know what Notre Dame is all about. I have been to many games, and I will always be first in line to defend this University and its football program. I have plenty of faith in Coach Kelly and the Fighting Irish football team, and I do believe that they will do great things in my four years at Notre Dame and beyond. 
However, I am also realistic. The question was, “What will Notre Dame’s football record be this season?” not, “What do you hope Notre Dame ’s football record will be this season?” I hope that Notre Dame goes unde­feated this season just as much as the next guy, but realistically, it would be extremely hard. Looking at the schedule, Michigan and Michigan State are always tough contests, Stanford quarterback Andrew Luck is a dark horse for the Heisman, 15th-ranked Pittsburgh has one of the best running backs in the nation in Dion Lewis, and we have to travel to bowl-ineligible Southern Cal, whom we have not defeated since 2001 (excluding the vacated win in 2005) and will be hungry to end its season with wins over us and UCLA. Additionally, the players are learning a completely new offense, which may take several games to reach its full potential. I am not saying that the team cannot overcome all of this and go undefeated, but when putting the situation in perspective, it would be very difficult. 
Despite all of this, I do expect Notre Dame to win at least nine games this season, which cer­tainly is nothing to scoff at. Two 
of Notre Dame’s three BCS appearances came after nine-win seasons, and a 9-3 record would be a vast improvement over the last three years. In my eyes, 9-3 and a BCS appearance would be a success for this year, and a great way to start a new era that, I believe, will include multiple undefeated seasons and bring Notre Dame back into the elite of college football. 
So, if anyone doubts my loyalty, spirit and pride, on Sept. 4 I will be in the nation’s greatest foot­ball stadium cheering as loudly as anyone, supporting the Irish as I have my whole life. This is going to be an exciting season, and hopefully I’m proven wrong. Go Irish! 
Mackin Bannon 
freshman Sorin College Aug. 27 
This space? Right here? Yeah.  It’s boring. Fix it. 
Write in a Letter to the Editor. 
Is the Islamic Center fair? 
In his column in Wednesday’s Observer, Alex Coccia commented on the xenophobia which, according to him, lies at the root of the opposition to the Manhattan Islamic cul­tural center. (“Islamic Center a step in the right direction,” Aug. 25) To some degree, I can agree with his analysis: Many Muslims today are met with the same sort of para­noia that once characterized American treatment of Catholic immigrants. Until John F. Kennedy was elected President, many Americans thought that Catholicism was inherently antithetical to democracy and to religious freedom. They feared that putting Catholics in power would lead to an American Inquisition. To the extent that the moderate Muslims of modern America are treated the same way that American Catholics were only a few decades ago, I sympathize with them and want to see the cultural center built. 
However, I think that characterizing the opposition as purely xenophobic is neither true nor especially productive. Coccia notes that, if the center is built, one side will view it as a sign of American tolerance, the other as desecration of hallowed ground. However, I think that the reasons for the lat­ter perspective are somewhat more complex than Coccia thinks. Looking at the still-empty Ground Zero site and the situation of St. Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church, which stood in the shadow of the World Trade Center and was destroyed by the falling rubble, the oppositions’ objections become more understandable. The Freedom Tower planned for the former World Trade Center site is not due to be completed until 2013 — the construction is barely at ground level — and the City of New York has not been extremely cooperative in helping St. Nicholas’ Church rebuild, to say the least. It is not that a Muslim cultural center in lower Manhattan is seen as inherently evil or dis­respectful — apparently, there is already a mosque two blocks from the planned loca­tion that predates the 9/11 attacks. The opposition is so vehement not because 52 percent of New Yorkers are anti-Islamic — if they were, the state of fear and the retal­iatory attacks which Coccia described would have continued instead of dropping off almost to pre-9/11 levels in the following years. Simply put, it is radically unfair for the Islamic cultural center to be put on a fast track while Ground Zero still literally scars the face of Manhattan and St. Nicholas’ Church hits roadblock after road­block in its efforts to rebuild. 
Although I would like to see the cultural center built and sympathize with moderate Muslims who are trying to practice their faith in the context of a democratic society, I think that center’s supporters should back down — at least for now. 
Timothy Kirchoff 
freshman Dillon Hall Aug. 26 
UWIRE 
Panelists discuss climate change worries 
Climate experts — including professor Michael Mann of the recent “Climategate” controversy — expressed concerns about recent environmental change in a press conference Wednesday near Penn State U. 
Matt 
The conference 
Scorzafave 
presented a num ­ber of concerns 

The Daily
regarding this sum­mer ’s heat waves Collegian across the globe and how future problems could negatively affect the planet . 
“We want to alert the public that we are heading for a future they’re not going to be comfortable with,” said Ed Perry, the outreach coordinator for the National Wildlife Federation’s Global Warming Campaign. 
Perry has presented across the state for the last three years and said he saw firsthand how people can be negatively affected by extreme weather. 
Perry said his research shows that 50 percent of residents in both Pittsburgh and Philadelphia do not have air-condi­tioned homes and that people in the State College area sometimes fail to realize how the weather affects others. 
“We’re in fantasy land with an easy climate to handle, as we leave our air-conditioned homes and drive our air-conditioned cars to our air-conditioned offices,” he said. 
Perry said some people in lower financial classes who cannot afford lux­uries like air conditioning are not so lucky. 
“We don’t know what the future holds if we don’t take action against the cli­mate now,” Perry said. 
Mann, a meteorology professor, said there is a connection between global warming and recent climate change. 
“The heat waves that have broken out are taking place within a globe that’s warmer than it has ever been,” he said. “There is a connection.” 
While a direct connection between recent heat waves and climate change cannot be made with complete confi­dence, Mann said he believes humans’ actions in harming the environment are playing a role. 
“We cannot ever look at one event to prove that global warming is present, but we ’re tilting the odds of these events occurring more frequently,” he said. 
Sylvia Neely, a history professor and speaker at the press conference, dis­cussed a national group called Interfaith Power and Light. 
The group, made up of people from different religious affiliations, tackles the issues surrounding climate change with a moral approach. 
“This is a special response to how cli­mate is being destroyed that includes the moral and ethical issues involved,” she said. 
Neely discussed potential conse ­quences that humans’ actions are hav­ing on both the Earth and its people. 
“In the U.S., we omit more green­house gases per capita than any other country in the world, other than Australia,” she said. 
Perry said this can create problems for people across the planet and urged action now. 
“We still have time to get off dirty fos­sil fuels, and onto renewables,” Perry said. 
This column first appeared in the Aug. 26 edition of The Daily Collegian, the daily pub­lication serving Penn State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The Observer 
Scene
page 10 Monday, August 30, 2010 

By ALEX KILPATRICK 
Scene Writer 
Do you remember the good old careless days of “screaming and running through the yard?” Those are the days that the Montreal-based band Arcade Fire remi­nisces about in their new LP The Suburbs. 
Critically praised since their epic, orchestral, emotion-ridden 2004 debut album “Funeral,” the indie rock septet’s music is often pow­ered by seemingly ever-crescendoing dynamics. Their 2006 sophomore album “Neon Bible,” replete with religious under­tones, experienced breakthrough com­mercial success, debuting at No. 1 in Canada and Ireland and number two in the United States. 
Not unlike its prede­cessors, the Montreal-based band’s new album takes a few lis­tens to digest, but that’s what makes its music so brilliant. However, while previ­ous albums focused more on passionate instrumentation and vocals, “The Suburbs” takes on a more adult sound, controlled and atmospheric in its scope. Always grandiose in lyrical and instrumental con­tent, the band’s fronting husband-and­wife duo Win Butler and Regine Chassagne write about what they know, in this case, the nostalgia of growing up in the suburbs. 
Will Butler, brother of lead singer Win and synthesizer, bass play­er and percussionist for the band, said the inspiration behind the new album’s themes comes from his and his brother’s upbring­ing in the Woodlands near Houston. He said on ArcadeFireTube: “Both [Win and I] grew up in the sub­urbs of Houston and we, sort of, wanted to directly address that, as opposed to pre­tending we were tough kids from the inner city or hobos who rode the rails … [and] there’s always pressure to do that.” 
The album’s title track and opener, “The Suburbs,” intro­duces the LP’s main theme, that many people romanticize the wasted time of youth and in turn jus­tify wasting time in adulthood: “Kids wanna be so hard / But in my dreams, we’re still screaming and running through the yard.” It’s an album about nostalgia for childhood but also a stinging critique of adults’ romanticism of youth. 
This same theme of wasted youth is seen throughout the rest of the album in tracks like “Rococo” in which a chamber pop sound contrasts with Butler’s singing: “Let’s go downtown and talk to the modern kids / They will eat right out of your hand / Using great big words that they don’t under­stand.” The lyrics tar­get and seemingly admonish Arcade Fire’s own audience, the hipster who is more concerned with following trends than genuinely understand­ing the world that sur­rounds him. 
Many an Arcade Fire joke has revolved around Butler’s repet­itive use of “the kids,” and this thematic redundancy is certain­ly seen throughout “The Suburbs,” in songs like “Month of May,” a tune that channels 1980s pol­ished punk rock with an upbeat driving per­cussion and the lyrics: “Now the kids are all standing with their arms folded tight.” 
The beginning stac­cato, minor key piano chords of “We Used to Wait” tells a story about the anxiety of the relentless pace of everyday life. While people used to lose a grasp on their dreams for the reality of reli­able office work to pay the way, Butler sings about the lack of reliability even in office work with the state of the economy (“I was left standing in the wilderness down­town”). In spite of the harsh message, Jeremy Gara’s steady drumming and Butler’s falsetto vocals offer some of the pas­sion that Arcade Fire is known for. 
While Butler leads the vocals throughout most of the LP, Chassagne’s impas­sioned singing can be heard on tracks like “Empty Room” and “Sprawl II (Mountains Beyond Mountains),” a disco-influenced track with an abun­dance of synthesizers, high-pitched yet emo­tional vocals and fair­ly literal lyrics, “Sometimes I wonder if the world’s so small / That we can never get away from the sprawl. / … / Dead shopping malls rise like mountains beyond mountains / And there’s no end in sight / I need the darkness, someone please cut the lights.” 
Win Butler, lead singer and main song­writer behind the band, claims that the new album draws influences from Depeche Mode and Neil Young, adding that he wanted the LP to sound like “the bands that I heard when I was very young and wondered what those crazy nois­es were,” according to a July interview with NME Magazine. 
With not quite as much passion but the same fluidity as “Funeral,” Arcade Fire manages to make the story of the sub­urbs, one usually doused with triviali­ties, a tale of epic pro­portions. 

Contact Alex Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 

MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene
Monday, August 30, 2010 page 11 



By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Associate Scene Editor 
Though overshad­owed by big summer blockbusters like “Toy Story 3” and “Inception,” one of the best movies this sum­mer was the small fam­ily dramedy, “The Kids Are All Right.” The film, about a lesbian couple 
inevitably try to rip them all apart. But this isn’t a melodrama about ridiculous family problems that shouldn’t exist — from alco­holism to leaving for college to discovering yourself to making mis­takes that hurt those you love the most, this family has to deal with the same everyday problems that we all do. 
and Moore and Bening never try to glamorize these faults. They are merely two very imper­fect human beings struggling to make their love and their family last. 
Similarly, through Laser and Joni, Cholodenko depicts the same growing pains that all teenagers must go through, despite their unique circum­
stance. And 
(A nnett e 
while Paul Bening and brings Juli anne something Moore), new to the their two life of this child ren family, ( M i a especially in Wasikowska providing a and Josh father-fig-Hutcherson) ure for both and the Joni and sperm-Laser, he donor father takes even ( M a r k more from Ruffalo), is t h e m . an honest Finally and real meeting his portrayal of children is a 
what it takes to be a family and why it’s worth the struggle. 
Nic (Bening), Jules (Moore) and their two kids Joni (Wasikowska) and Laser (Hutcherson) are a pretty normal, happy family. It’s clear that the family cares deeply for each other, no matter how much they nag one another. When Joni turns 18, though, she and her brother Laser, who both share the same sperm-donor father, decide to reach out to him, and they begin to form a relationship with Paul (Ruffalo). As the five build an unconvention­al family together, problems arise that 
The relationship between Nic and Jules is one of the most sin­cere and frank depic­tions of a relationship ever put on screen. Where writer-director Lisa Cholodenko (“Laurel Canyon”) suc­ceeds most is in creat­ing a very universal portrait of married life in these two characters without ever asking the audience to pass judg­ment on their lifestyle. It is clear from the start that the two are very much in love. But in spite of that love, or maybe because of it, they often hurt each other without meaning to. These women are two very flawed people, 

life-chang­ing experience for him, but he is perhaps the most flawed of any of them and throws a rut into the delicate bal­ance of the family. 
The ending is neither happy nor sad, but rather both heartbreak­ing yet heartwarming, bitter yet sweet and unbelievably poignant. There is something in this family, and the struggles they must overcome, and the love they share for one another hits home. But unlike so many dramas centered on families, this family feels relat­able. 
“The Kids Are All Right” proved to be a nice change of pace from the mostly action-packed movies of the summer. Though it did-n’t have a big release, should you come across it, do yourself a favor and dish out the ticket price to see it. At the very least, it will change the way you think about movies and how they reflect the real world. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 
page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, August 30, 2010 
MLB 
Review goes Braves’ way; Giants beat D-backs 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA— Brian McCann stood at second base, con­vinced he had just hit a game-winning homer. 
His teammates gathered along the first -base line, ready to celebrate. 
After 86 seconds, umpire crew chief Tim McClelland popped out of the Florida dugout, looked toward McCann and twirled his right index finger — the universal signal for a home run. 
Upon further review, the Braves win. 
McCann capped a stunning comeback with a replay ­assisted homer that gave Atlanta a 7-6 victory over the Marlins on Sunday — the first time a game ended on a call using video. 
Without it, McCann might have only gotten credit for a double and the game would have continued on. Instead, he was jumping into the arms of his teammates after the umps took a second look, tak­ing advantage of a limited replay rule that went into effect two years earlier almost to the day — Aug. 28, 2008 — to make sure they got these sort of calls right. 
“I heard it hit the back tin (wall), so I knew that wasn’t the sound of the pads,” McCann said. “I knew it was a homer. I was telling Tim McClelland, ‘I promise you it’s a homer, I heard it hit the back.’” 
Pinch-hitter Matt Diaz tied the game with a two-run homer off Leo Nunez (4-3) after Brooks Conrad led off the ninth with a walk. Nunez retired the next two hitters, then McCann drove a 1-2 pitch toward the wall in right. 
The ball bounced back onto the field, and the umpires ini­tially ruled it was still in play. McCann stopped at second and began arguing that he should have more than a dou­ble. 
The umpires conferred, then headed toward the tunnel alongside the Florida dugout to look at a replay that clearly showed the ball struck the top 
of the wall — right over McCann’s name on an auxil­iary scoreboard — and went over. It ricocheted back onto the field off the wall in front of the seats. 
“Yep, that was a home run,” said Florida manager Edwin Rodriguez, whose team took a devastating loss in its long-shot bid to get back in the playoff race. “It was a home run all the way.” 
When McClelland signaled homer, McCann finished his triumphant jog around the bases, slamming down his helmet before he touched home and disappeared into a mob surrounding the plate. 
“It was the worst celebra­tion of all time,” McCann quipped. “I got lost in the moment.” 
The NL East-leading Braves overcame a 6-1 deficit, scor­ing three runs in the eighth and three more in the ninth for a victory they will surely remember if they hold on for their first division title since 2005. They maintained a two-game lead on Philadelphia, which completed a sweep at San Diego with a 5-0 victory Sunday. 
“There’s not a better feel­ing,” McCann said. “It makes it better being in a playoff race.” 
Takashi Saito (2-3) pitched a scoreless ninth for the win, while Nunez’s eighth blown save in 37 chances ruined a strong outing by Florida starter Josh Johnson, who pitched three-hit ball over six innings and allowed only an unearned run. 
The Braves won for the 23rd time in their final at-bat, which leads the majors. It wasn’t even their biggest comeback of the season — a 

AP Marlins third baseman Emilio Bonifacio dives and robs Braves out­felder Jayson Hayward of a hit in Atlanta’s 7-6 win Sunday. 
seven-run ninth gave Atlanta a 10-9 victory over Cincinnati back in May — but this finish will be remembered right alongside Conrad’s walk-off grand slam, especially if this team goes on to make the playoffs. 
“What team hits two homers in the ninth inning to win a ballgame? Hopefully, that means we’re a team of des­tiny,” Diaz said. “If this con­tinues, we’ll either all have heart attacks or make the playoffs.” 
The long ball finished off the Marlins, but it was shaky defense that made a game of it. Florida committed three errors and gave up three unearned runs. 
Rodriguez was more per­turbed at the relievers — especially Nunez. 
“At some point, the bullpen has to step up,” the Florida manager said. “With a five-run lead, you have to pound the strike zone. We were doing fine. But the bullpen was unable to hold a five-run lead. That’s unacceptable.” 
Atlanta starter Derek Lowe appeared headed for his fourth straight loss, lasting 
only three innings. He got himself in trouble right away, giving up a three-run homer to Hanley Ramirez in the first. 
Ramirez came out of the game two innings later after a slide into second base. He bent over and poked at his chest, then headed to the dugout with what the team described as lightheadedness. 
Lowe surrendered six hits and walked three before leav­ing with his team trailing 5-1. Bobby Cox wasn’t around at the end, either — the Braves manager was ejected in the sixth after third-base umpire Mike Everitt ruled that Eric Hinske went around for strike three on an attempted check swing. 
The Braves sure liked what the umpires ruled in the ninth, however. 
Florida had no complaints. 
“They got it right,” Dan Uggla said. “He hit a home run, and he deserved it.” 
Right fielder Mike Stanton had the best look at it. 
“It disappeared for a minute,” he said. “There was like a little rail, and it was behind it. Oh yeah, there was no doubt” it was gone. 
Atlanta’s only run off Johnson came in the first after Omar Infante reached on a throwing error by second baseman Uggla, who made a nifty scoop up the middle, then bounced the throw to first. With two outs, McCann walked and Hinske came 

AP 
Braves frst baseman Brian McCann celebrates with his teammates after hitting a game-winning home run that had to be reviewed. 
through with a run-scoring Francisco’s bullpen that fell single. apart and nearly proved cost-
Hinske, filling in at first for ly until Guillen bailed the Derrek Lee, sparked the Giants out. comeback with an RBI double Guillen, acquired from in the eighth that made it 6-2 Kansas City on Aug. 13 after and left runners at second being designated for assign-and third. Clay Hensley ment, couldn’t get the ball out fanned Alex Gonzalez and of the infield in his first three should have escaped with no at -bats before singling off further damage, but first Esmerling Vasquez (1-5) to baseman Gaby Sanchez could-drive in Sanchez and Aubrey n’t come up with a low throw Huff. Guillen later scored on a from Wes Helms after a sacrifice fly by Cody Ross. grounder to third. Cain pitched 6 1-3 solid 
The ball skidded into the innings, scattering six hits Atlanta dugout, the error while striking out seven. He allowing two runs to score. left with a 5-2 lead and a run­
ner on first before San Giants 9, Diamondbacks 7 Francisco’s normally reliable 
Jose Guillen hit a go-ahead, relievers fell apart. two-run single in the seventh Manager Bruce Bochy’s inning and the San Francisco bullpen had been solid in Giants beat the Arizona August, going 6-1 with a 3.26 Diamondbacks on Sunday ERA in 25 games but stum­after wasting a fine outing by bled against Arizona. The pitcher Matt Cain. Diamondbacks scored three 
Freddy Sanchez added three runs in the seventh after Cain hits and two RBIs for the left, taking a 6-5 lead on Giants, who avoided being Adam LaRoche’s two-run dou­swept by the last -place ble. Diamondbacks and pulled The two RBIs give LaRoche within five games of San 87 for the season, tying Tony Diego in the NL West. Clark’s franchise record for 
San Francisco remained 1½ first basemen set in 2005. games behind Philadelphia for The Giants answered with the NL wild card. three runs in the bottom half 
Stephen Drew had four hits and held on for the victory. for Arizona, including his Drew homered off Cain 11th home run of the season. leading off the third, then 
Jeremy Affeldt (3-3) got two Arizona got some help from outs for the win while Brian the Giants pitcher to score its Wilson recorded the final five second run. outs for his 36th save in 38 Cain struck out pinch-hitter tries. Ryan Church but the ball 
The Giants dropped the first skipped past catcher Eli two games of the series after Whiteside, allowing Church to their starting pitchers strug-reach first on the wild pitch. gled to get out of the first Church took second and third inning. Tim Lincecum and when Cain uncorked two more Barry Zito allowed a com-wild pitches and scored on bined nine runs in the open-Drew’s grounder. ing frame and both took the San Francisco scored four loss. runs in the third off Arizona 
This time it was San starter Rodrigo Lopez. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE 
Barely used Giant Cypress ST1020 19” women’s silver green bicycle. Paid $500. Asking $235 OBO. Call 574-654-3241 
——————————————— Guitar- Jeff Hanneman 2400 fret electric $265 OBO. Call 574-233-2973. ——————————————— Down duvet comforter with match­ing pillows $50. Call 574-654-3241 ——————————————— Part-time photographer, sales asso­ciate for JC Penney Portrait Studio, hours flexible, salary depends on experience. Call Jackie 574-277-5638 or send resume 
to smp0319@lifetouch.com —————————————— 
FOR RENT 
4 bedroom 2 bath tri-level in Arlington Heights­5 minutes from campus. New kitchen, bath. 
Call Keith 574-323-6273 ——————————————— DUBS’ INN WEEKEND B&B FOR ND GAMES/EVENTS 4 BR HOME SLEEPS UP TO 8 ADULTS. 3 QUEEN, 2 SINGLE BEDS, 4 COUCHES, 3 FULL BATHS. 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS FREE MEALS AND SHUTTLE AVAILABLE, NON SMOKING. $800/DAY. DUBS RETURNS CALLS (574-210-4030) ——————————————— 
PERSONAL 
What sort of movie would Rudy have been if he had just stopped and given up after two rejections. Would've been a less shorter. Probably been a lot funnier. But it would have ultimately been a disap­pointment. I still would have seen it. But, that's not... the point. ——————————————— You know, in the ten years that I coached, I never met anybody who wanted to win as badly as I did. I'd do anything I had to do to increase my advantage. Anybody who tried to block the pursuit of that advan­tage, I'd just push 'em out of the way. Didn't matter who they were, or what they were doing. 
But that was then. ——————————————— 
page 13 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, August 30, 2010 Monday, August 30, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 14 

MLB 
Guthrie, Orioles fnish sweep of Angels on road 
Athletics cut Rangers’ lead in AL West; Hamels shuts down hometown Padres as Phillies breeze past San Diego 
Although Guthrie led the AL those eight games. 
Associated Press 
with 17 losses and 35 homers There is only one more series 
ANAHEIM, Calif. — Jeremy allowed last season, he has between the AL West’s top two Guthrie allowed four hits while stuck in the Orioles rotation all teams the final five weeks of pitching into the ninth inning, year, eating up innings during a the regular season. That is a and two relievers finished the tough season. He was solid four-game set Sept. 23-26 at Orioles’ 1-0 victory over Los after the All-Star break, but Oakland, which has an 8-7 Angeles on Sunday, completing gave up 11 earned runs in his series lead. Baltimore’s six-game season previous two starts, allowing a Josh Hamilton drove in the sweep of the struggling Angels. season-high 10 hits to the only two runs for Texas, with a 
Luke Scott scored on Matt White Sox on Tuesday. two-out bloop RBI single in the Wieters’ sacrifice fly in the sev-Baltimore nearly scored in third and his 31st homer in the enth. The Orioles limited the the sixth when Josh Bell sixth. Hamilton has five homers Angels to one run in three reached on an error and his past 10 games and raised games while sweeping the sea-advanced to second on a wild his majors-best batting average son series for the first time by pitch. to .359. either club in a half-century of Nick Markakis then hit a Hamilton’s 403-foot blast off competition. short single to center, but Bell the facade of the second deck of 
Guthrie (8-13) allowed just was called out by home plate seats in right field was the only one runner to reach third base umpire Brian Gorman after he homer allowed by Gonzalez his until Reggie Willits hustled for a collided with leaping catcher last seven starts. Gonzalez has one-out double in the ninth and Jeff Mathis. Replays appeared given up only 11 homers over advanced on Howie Kendrick’s to show Bell reaching out to 167 innings this season. single. touch home plate an instant Oakland went ahead to stay 
Reliever Michael Gonzalez before Mathis tagged him. when Ellis broke a 1-all tie with struck out Bobby Abreu, and Los Angeles then put two run-his third homer, a towering fly-on a sac bunt. Aug. 4. Jayson Werth added a Torii Hunter popped out on Koji ners on in the sixth, but ball that dropped just beyond solo shot. Uehara’s only pitch in his fourth Kendrick grounded into an the 14-foot wall in left-center Phillies 5, Padres 0 Hamels (8-10) prevailed over save. inning-ending double play. field. Cole Hamels shut down his Richard (12-6) in a duel of left-
The Orioles swept three The A’s scored twice in the hometown Padres on four sin-ies to win for the first time games from the Angels at Athletics 8, Rangers 2 fifth for a 4-1 lead after Lewis’ gles in eight innings to win for since July 11 against Camden Yards earlier this Gio Gonzalez won his third throwing error on what should the first time in nine starts, Cincinnati. He had gone 0-3 month after Buck Showalter consecutive start and the have been an inning-ending leading the Philadelphia Phillies despite a 2.83 ERA in his previ­took over as manager. At 16-11 Oakland Athletics cut their AL double play. to a victory Sunday and a three-ous eight starts. in August, they’ll finish this West deficit to 7½ games with a Lewis fielded Kurt Suzuki’s game sweep of bumbling NL Hamels retired his final 16 month with a winning record victory Sunday, taking two of comebacker, but threw the ball West-leading San Diego. batters after allowing Adrian for the first time since 1997 — three in their series with the way wide of second base and The Padres have lost four Gonzalez’s single with two outs their first winning record in any division-leading Texas Rangers. into center. Pennington scored straight games for the first time in the third. He struck out six month since June 2008. Mark Ellis and Kevin and Daric Barton moved from this season and were swept for and walked none. Ryan Madson 
The Angels’ three straight Kouzmanoff homered for the first to third before then scoring just the second time. The finished the combined five-hit­losses to the majors’ second-A’s off Colby Lewis (9-11), while on an inning-ending double Padres, who led the majors in ter as several thousand Phillies worst team might be a low Cliff Pennington snapped out of play. fielding percentage (.989) com-fans stood and cheered. point in a season that went a 2-for-24 slide with two singles First baseman Jorge Cantu ing in, committed a season-high Gonzalez had three hits for wrong almost from the start. and a sacrifice squeeze bunt. snagged Jack Cust’s hard four errors. San Diego. The three-time defending AL Gonzalez (12-8) left with a 7-grounder at the bag, wiping out After being swept at home in Two of Philadelphia’s runs West champions have lost six of 2 lead after throwing 65 of his the force at second. Suzuki got four games by Houston, the were unearned. Carlos Ruiz sin-seven, and Los Angeles scored 95 pitches for strikes in six caught up between first and wild card-leading Phillies had gled with one out in the third its only run against Baltimore innings on another hot day in second and avoided being their usual success at Petco and advanced on Richard’s on a first-inning balk Friday Texas. The left-hander is 7-1 tagged long enough for Barton Park. They won their seventh errant pickoff throw. He took night. with a 2.10 ERA in 10 day to score. straight game at the downtown third on Hamels’ groundout and 
Guthrie fell just short of his games this season. Kouzmanoff led off the sixth ballpark, where they’re 18-4 scored on Jimmy Rollins’ single. first career shutout while win-Lewis missed on his eighth with his 12th homer, before since it opened in 2004. In the eighth, Ruiz hit a lead­ning a brisk duel with Angels attempt to get his 10th victory, Pennington had his squeeze The Phillies, who came in off single and was safe at sec-ace Jered Weaver (11-10), who and six of the seven runs he bunt and Coco Crisp an RBI sin-with a 1½-game lead over San ond on Richard’s throwing struck out 11 — including his gave up in 5 2-3 innings were gle to chase Lewis. Francisco in the wild card race, error after he fielded Hamels’ 200th of the season — during earned. Oakland had the bases loaded remained two games behind bunt. Right fielder Ryan eight innings of five-hit ball. It was the right-hander’s with no outs in the third with is Atlanta in the NL East. Ludwick made a nice diving 
Neither team even got a run-shortest outing since pitching Nos. 2-4 hitters coming up, but Mike Sweeney, starting in catch of Rollins’ fly. But when ner to third base until the sixth. only five July 16 at Boston managed only one run on place of slumping Ryan Howard Ludwick attempted to double After Scott and Ty Wigginton when he got his ninth victory. Barton’s sacrifice fly. In the bot-against left-hander Clayton Hamels off first, his throw was led off the seventh with hits off Lewis is 0-6 since and Texas tom of the inning, Hamilton Richard, hit a two-run homer, wide and bounced into the Weaver, Wieters’ one-out fly has scored only eight runs drove in Julio Borbon, who had his first for the Phillies since Padres’ dugout for another was plenty deep to score Scott. while he was on the mound in an infield single and advanced being acquired from Seattle on error, allowing Ruiz to score. 


LITTLE LEAGUE WORLD SERIES 
Japan takes LLWS championship 
Associated Press 
SOUTH WILLIAMSPORT, Pa. 
— The Little League aces from Japan ended the United States’ five-year reign as World Series champions. 
The team from Tokyo limited Waipahu, Hawaii, to four sin­gles, and got a homer and three RBIs from Konan Tomori to take the Little League World Series title with a 4-1 victory Sunday. 
For the first time since 2003, a team from Japan is flying home with the championship banner. 
Hawaii, which had scored 29 runs over its previous three games, came up short at the plate against Tokyo. 
Hawaii’s only run came on an error off a sacrifice bunt in the fourth, but reliever Ichiro Ogasawara worked out of a second-and-third jam with a strikeout and a weak bouncer. 
Ryusuke Ikeda got the win with after striking out five and allowing four hits over three innings, before Ogasawara pitched the final three, striking out three to get his third save. 
Fittingly, Japan’s players gravitated to the mound after the game to scoop up bags of dirt to take home as mementos, as family members watched proudly from the first-base stands. 
After exchanging handshakes at the plate with Hawaii, Japan also got another souvenir — a banner that read “2010 Little League World Series Champions.” They finished the tournament a perfect 5-0. 
Cheered on by Hawaii fans waving U.S. flags and tea leaves they’ve been carrying around for good luck, the Waipahu All-Stars put on a valiant effort on the mound and with the glove. Thirteen-year-old lefty starter Cody Maltezo, who hadn’t pitched in roughly a month, held Japan to four hits over 5 2-3 innings, and Noah Shackles’ fine stop of a hard bouncer at third likely saved two runs from scoring in the third. 
But the mashers from the West region couldn’t get the clutch hits that had propelled their unlikely run of four victo­ries in four elimination games over four days into the Little League final. 
So the All-Star team from Tokyo’s Edogawa Minami Little League became the first inter­national team to take the crown since Curacao in 2004. A team from Tokyo’s Musashi-Fuchu league was the last winner from Japan, the previous year. 
page 15 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, August 30, 2010 Monday, August 30, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS Page 16 

GOLF 
Uihlein wins U.S. Amateur 
Associated Press 
UNIVERSITY PLACE, Wash. 
— The top ranked amateur in the world now has a title wor­thy of his lofty ranking. 
Oklahoma State’s Peter Uihlein also has quite the 21st birthday celebration awaiting. 
Uihlein won the 110th U.S. Amateur on Sunday, holding off yet another back-nine charge from Stanford’s David Chung for a 4 and 2 victory at Chambers Bay and the biggest in Uihlein’s young career. 
Ranked No. 1 in the world by the Royal & Ancient, Uihlein has been considered one of the top young players in the world for many years, but had yet to capture a major championship until now. 
And on his 21st birthday. 
“It’s definitely the best birth­day present I’ve ever had in my life,” Uihlein said. “I’m looking forward to going back home tonight and seeing the boys and having a good time.” 
Uihlein was leading by two following the first 18 holes in the morning, then held on dur­ing the afternoon 18 holes as Chung once again tried to make a charge on the back nine. Seeing a four-hole lead cut to two, Uihlein made a 20­foot birdie putt to win the 14th and nearly ended the match at No. 15, leaving his putt on the lip. 
Uihlein finally managed to finish off Chung on the 34th hole when Chung’s tee shot on the drivable par-4 16th hole went into the deep, fescue grass. Chung tried to flop his second shot near the pin, but caught too much grass and sent the shot flying over the back of the green. Chung took off his white Stanford cap and conceded the hole, and match, when his third shot out of the deep grass came up short. 
“I came basically this morn­ing expecting Peter to play really good golf and he did. I just didn’t really come with everything back at him today. I was a little flat out there and I couldn’t spark any momen­tum.” 
Uihlein, the son of Wally Uihlein, CEO of golf equipment company Acushnet, was a jun­ior star who struggled to find consistency as he moved up the amateur ranks. He went 4­0 in the Walker Cup a year ago, but his best victory as an amateur arguably came last month when he won the Sahalee Players Championship. 
Now, he’s taking the Havemeyer Trophy back to Karsten Creek in Stillwater as validation of his world rank­ing. 
“It’s just one of those things you’ve got to keep trying to get better, keep trying to work hard and hopefully it will all click,” Uihlein said. “Chambers set up great for my game and I got lucky in a couple of my matches.” 
Along with the victory, the Oklahoma State junior earned a trip to the U.S. Open and British Open and an invitation to the Masters. 
NFL 
Shanahan not certain if McNabb will start 
Associated Press 
ASHBURN, Va. — It could be a smoke screen or just a cau­tious assessment of his quar­terback's health, but Mike Shanahan says he's not cer­tain Donovan McNabb will be available for the Washington Redskins' season opener against the Dallas Cowboys. 
“I really don't know for sure,” Shanahan said Sunday. “That's why it's day by day. We'll see how it goes.” 
McNabb hasn't practiced since spraining his left ankle in the second preseason game against Baltimore. He sat out Friday's game against the New York Jets and watched Sunday's practice with a black sleeve on his left leg. 
Shanahan said the leg is too sore for McNabb to play Thursday against the Arizona Cardinals, but McNabb likely wouldn't have played in that game anyway because the coach prefers to rest his starters and some of his top backups in the final exhibition to avoid injuries. No. 2 quar­terback Rex Grossman said he won't play this week either, leaving John Beck and Richard Bartel to take the snaps against the Cardinals. 
The news from Shanahan was more positive concerning running back Clinton Portis, who sprained his right ankle against the Jets. 
“I don't think it's too serious. It's not a big setback,” Shanahan said. “I would antic­ipate him being able to prac­tice in a couple of days.” 
Fullback Mike Sellers, who missed the Jets game, remains day to day with a sprained left knee. Backup linebacker Perry Riley sprained his right ankle against New York and was wearing a walking boot Sunday. 
MLB 
Dodgers fall to Rockies; Mariners eek out win over Twins 
Associated Press  come Aug. 19-21, 2008, at D o d g e r S t a d i u m w i t h t w o  extra-base hit in 40 at-bats since July 30.  
DENVER — Dexter Fowler  w i n s i n t h r e e g a m e s . T h e  Hammel escaped trouble in  
h i t t w o t r i p l e s t o s e t a  R o c k i e s l a s t w o n a s e r i e s  the fourth and fifth and left  
C o l o r a d o r e c o r d a n d h a d  from the Dodgers at Coors  after 5 1-3 innings. With run- 
three RBIs, Carlos Gonzalez  Field on July 21-23, 2008,  ners on first and third and  
homered twice and drove in  winning two of three.  n o n e o u t i n t h e f o u r t h ,  
f o ur r u n s a n d t h e R o c k i e s  Th e Rock ies bu il t an 8-1  Hammel got Andre Ethier to  
b e a t L o s A n g e l e s 1 0 -5 f o r  l e a d i n t h e f i f t h , b u t t h e  p o p o u t , s t r u c k K e m p a n d  
their first series win over the  Dodgers scored a run in the  r et ired L oney on a gr o u n d  
Dodgers in two years.  sixth when they knocked out  out.  
Jason Hammel (9-7) hung  H a m m e l a n d t h r e e i n t h e  H a m m e l g a v e u p a r u n - 
on for his first win in four  eighth against three relievers.  scoring single to pinch-hitter  
starts since Aug. 6. Fowler  T h e l a s t w a s R a f a e l  Jay Gibbons with two outs in  
has 12 triples this year, the  B et a n c o u r t , b r o u g h t o n t o  the fifth, followed by Scott  
most in a season by a Rockies  f a c e c l e a n u p h i t t e r M a t t  Podsednik's single and a walk  
player.  Kemp with two outs and run- to Theriot but left the bases  
Dodgers pinch-hitter Manny  ners on first and second. He  loaded by striking out Ethier.  
Ramirez argued a called first­ s i n g l e d t o s h o r t s t o p Tr o y  B a c k -t o -b a c k d o u b l e s b y  
pitch strike and was ejected  Tulowitzki, who saved a run  Kemp and Loney opened the  
in the sixth inning.  with a diving stop in the hole.  sixth, and Hammel left after AP  
T h e R o c k i e s t o o k t w o o f  Wi t h t h e b a s e s l o a d e d ,  i s s u i n g a o n e -o u t w a l k t o Rockies short stop Troy Toluwitzki tries to a turn a double play dur­ 
three from the Dodgers after  Betancourt fell behind James  Jamey Carroll on his 114th ing Colorado’s 10-5 win over the Dodgers Sunday.  
losing 10 consecutive series.  L o n e y 3 -0 b u t g o t h i m t o  pitch.  
Colorado's last series win had  ground to Tulowitzki.  Left-hander Matt Reynolds  i n t h e n i n t h , b u t t h e n g o t K o t c h m a n s i n g l e d o n e o u t  
The Rockies countered with  walked Brad Ausmus to load  Cuddyer to hit into a broken-into the bottom of the sev- 
two runs in the bottom half to  the bases and threw a first- bat double play behind sec­enth. Pavano's 1-2 pitch to  
g i v e c l o s e r H u s t o n S t r e e t  pitch called strike to Ramirez.  ond base for his 25th save in Franklin Gutierrez skipped  
breathing room in the ninth.  He argued the ball was out­ 30 chances. w i d e p a s t c a t c h e r D r e w  
After winning his first five  side and was ejected by home  S e a t t l e , 2 8 g a m e s u n d e r Butera for a wild pitch that  
starts and giving up seven  p l a t e u m p i r e G a r y  .500, won for just the second advanced the runners.  
runs in 34 1-3 innings since  Cederstrom.  t i m e i n s e v e n g a m e s . Gutierrez then hit a fly ball  
being traded to the Dodgers  Reed Johnson pinch hit for  B a s e b a l l ' s w o r s t o f f e n s e to which left fielder Delmon  
f r o m t h e C h i c a g o C u b s o n  Ramirez and grounded into a  scored two runs or fewer for Young, wearing sun glasses  
July 31, Ted Lilly (8-9) yield- double play.  the 58th time in 130 games — and looking into a hazy glare,  
ed seven runs in four innings,  Ryan Spilborghs hit his 10th  yet won this time thanks to reacted slowly. Young's late  
including five with two out in  homer in the fifth off Ronald  Minnesota's messy bottom of attempt to lunge at the ball  
the fourth.  Belisario. It was Spilborghs'  the seventh. failed as it short-hopped off  
J o n a t h a n H e r r e r a b e g a n  f i r s t h o m e r i n 6 6 a t -b a t s  The Twins stayed 4½ games the grass and his glove for an  
that rally with a triple and  since July 25 and made the  ahead of the White Sox atop RBI single that scored Lopez.  
scored on Hammel’s single.  score 8-1.  the AL Central. Wi t h K o t c h m a n a t t h i r d ,  
After Eric Young Jr. walked,  Twins starter Carl Pavano Moore then sent a slow roller  
F o w l e r t r i p l e d h o m e b o t h  Mariners 2, Twins 1  (15-10) was cruising through to shortstop J.J Hardy for a  
runners. Gonzalez, who had  A wild pitch, a misplayed fly  s i x i n n i n g s u n t i l S e a t t l e ' s force out. But second base- 
homered with two outs in the  ball and a fielder's choice by  rally. He allowed five hits and m a n H u d s o n , w h o l e f t  
third, followed with a two-run  A d a m M o o r e i n a t w o -r u n  t h e t w o r u n s i n h i s s e v e n S a t u r d a y ' s g a m e e a r l y  
shot, his 29th of the season. It  seventh inning helped lift the  innings for his third consecu­because he ankle "locked up,"  
was the second multihomer  Seattle Mariners to a victory  t i v e l o s s , a n d s e c o n d o n held onto a potential relay  
game of Gonzalez's career,  over the first-place Minnesota  Minnesota's ending road trip. throw and double play at first  
t h e o t h e r c o m i n g A u g . 4  Twins on Sunday and avoid a  C u d d y e r j u m p e d o n base as Gutierrez slid under  
against San Francisco.  three-game series sweep.  French's 3-0 pitch that float-him and catcher Moore rum- 
The Rockies, who have won  Luke French (3-4) allowed  ed 84 mph about chest high b l e d d o w n t h e l i n e . T h a t  
six of seven, took a 1-0 lead  three hits, including a home  and homered for the game's allowed Kotchman to score  
i n t h e s e c o n d w h e n To d d  run by Michael Cuddyer, in  f i r s t r u n i n t h e s e v e n t h the go-ahead run.  
Helton led off with his 524th  his seven innings.  inning. His 12th home run of M i n n e s o t a g o t a t w o -o u t  
double, tying him with Ken  Brandon League stranded  the season soared two rows single from Hardy off League.  
Griffey Jr. for 36th place all- the tying run at second by  i n t o t h e u p p e r d e c k f a r T h at b r o u g h t M a u er u p t o  
time. Helton scored on Chris  retiring pinch-hitter and 2009  b e y o n d l e f t f i e l d f o r pinch hit, ending his planned  
I annetta's one-out d ouble,  AL MVP Joe Mauer to end a  Minnesota's third hit. day off. Pinch-runner Alexi  
ending Lilly's scoreless streak  s c o r e l e s s e i g h t h . D a v i d  Pavano had held Seattle to C a s i l l a s t o l e s e c o n d , b u t  
against the Rockies at 16 2-3  Aardsma gave up a single to  just two hits at that point. But Ma ue r str an d e d h i m t her e  
innings. It was Iannetta's first  Orlando Hudson with one out  then Jose Lopez and Casey with a groundout.  

Monday, August 30, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, August 30, 2010 

Brown 
continued from page 20 
attack for the Irish all week­end, making 129 assists over the three games. 
“Sammie played a big part in our success this weekend, especially with solid sets to Kelly [Scaccia] and the other hitters,” Brown said. “For a 
f r e s h m a n ,  t h i s  w a s  v e r y  
impressive.”  
T h e  b u s y  w e e k e n d  c o m  - 

menced Friday with the 
opening match against Marshall. After dropping the first set, the Irish asserted their dominance, thoroughly controlling the next three sets en route to a 3-1 victory. 
The Irish continued their winning streak Saturday, defeating Cal Poly 3-2, taking Notre Dame all five games to pull out the win, including the last set heroics by Dealy. 
Despite a closing loss, Brown said this weekend set the way for a successful sea­son for the Irish. 
“It was nice to pass from the preseason practices into games and get some ideas of our strengths and weakness­es,” Brown said. “Overall, I was pleased with what a great team effort it was.” 
Notre Dame will travel to Reno this week to take on Belmont, Weber State and Nevada in the Nevada Invitational September 3-4. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd,edu 

Powers 
continued from page 20 
senior forward Steven Perry on an aggressive run forward and Perry converted to put the Irish up 2-0. Notre Dame’s defense held on from there. 
The defense and junior goal­keeper Will Walsh were look­ing to rebound from a per­formance against Illinois-Chicago in which they surren­dered two goals. Walsh made seven saves and Irish coach Bobby Clark said he was strike, were enough to easily put away IPFW as the Irish concluded preseason with a 3­0 record. Clark said he was particularly happy to see the depth of the Irish squad dis­played on the pitch. 
“The starting 11 for the Ohio State game didn’t even dress for the second match,” Clark said. “It’s a nice positive to see some decent depth on this squad.” 
Freshman goalkeepers Patrick Wall and Adam LaPlaca each played a half and 
did not surren­
der a goal. 
“With a fresh­
man goalkeeper, 
impressed with you like to have 
“It’s a nice positive to 
the group’s them come in an 
see some decent depth
improvement. take a year to 
“I thought on this squad.” get acclima­[Ohio State] tized,” Clark was a good said. “But with 
Bobby Clark 
test,” Clark [starting goal-
Irish coach
said. “They’re a very direct team, they play the ball for­ward quickly. It took the defense awhile to get a hold on things, but in the second half our defense was good, and it was nice to see that.” 
Sunday’s game against IPFW gave Clark the opportunity to play some of his younger play­ers while their more experi­enced teammates rested from the day before. The fresh squad did not disappoint as junior midfielder Adam Mena’s two goals in the 30th and 90th minutes and freshman forward Harrison Shipp’s 35th minute keeper Phil 
Tuttle] being 
injured, we now 
have a situation 
where one of them needs to be the back up to Will Walsh. Things changed quite a bit. The freshmen did a good job, both of them.” 
With the preseason now behind them, the Irish will look forward to their Friday season opener against No. 8 UCLA in Bloomington as part of the Adidas/IU Credit Union Classic. Their home opener will take place 7 p.m. on Sept. 5 against California at Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
Scodro 
continued from page 20 
under-par finishes and 
picking up  seven  even-par  
matches.  
He also posted  two  top - 

10 finishes in his sopho ­more season, one at the Battle of the Warren and the second at the Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic last fall. 
But numbers aren ’t enough for him, Scodro says. He is hoping for improvement from both himself as well as the rest of his team on the course this season, calling the past seasons “disappoint­ing.” 
“I am extremely excited for our team this year,” he said. “Not only do we have some important players returning, we also have 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
was the fifth scoring play­er for Saint Mary’s, coming out of the tournament with a two-day total of 188. 
Also on the course for the Belles were freshman Alexi Brown (88-88, 9th), freshman Paige Pollak (88­92, 12th), junior Megan Ryan (91-95, 15th), fresh­man Hayley Miller (98-93, 18th) and junior Christine Brown (100-95, 22nd). 
The Belles did not come away with a win because 
of 
weak competition, as they faced off against some 

of 
the top national pro ­grams in their division. 


some new players looking tent, I think I can turn to get in the line up and some bad days to an even compete at that next level. par round.” My last two years with the With a clear set of goals 
team have ended in dis­appointment and this year “My last two years 
I expect with the team have 
nothing less 
ended in
than to com­pete in disappointment and 
Nationals.” this year I expectScodro said 
nothing less than to
he knows exactly what compete in Nationals.” he needs to do to bring 
Max Scodro 
his game up 
Irish golfer
to the next level. “This year I think I will 
in mind, Scodro and the Irish will first tee off Sept. 13 -14 at Kiawah Island, S.C., in the College of Charleston Invitational. The first home match will be held Sept. 27 -28 at the Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic at Notre Dame’s 
definitely have to improve my consistency with my short game, ” he said. “I had good days last year but this year, if I can get my short game more consis ­
But, the top is where the Belles both want and expect to be. Last year, they finished 10th in Division III NCAA finals. Despite the relative youth 
of the squad — the team has five freshmen this sea­son — it has the ability to do the same this season. 
Hamilton also empha ­sized the need for further development of the coach-player relationship. With five new freshmen, he said this means five new play­ers must learn where they work into the team dynam­ics across both the fall and spring seasons. Come next semester, Hamilton said he hopes to see the squad come together. 
Hamilton said he was Warren Golf Course, one of two home events for the Irish. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd,edu 
pleased with his team ’s 
mental toughness.  
“ We  d i d  a  b e t t e r  j o b  
m a k i n g  d e c i s i o n s , ”  h e  
said.  
H a m i l t o n  a l s o  s a i d  t h e  

season is a learning expe­rience, and that the Belles’ performance this weekend reveals their willingness to make necessary adjust ­ments, both on and off the course. 
The team continues to prepare for their confer­ence season, which will begin Sept. 11 when the Belles travel to Alma for the first fall MIAA compe­tition at Pine River Golf Course. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

Monday, August 30. 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 
Monday, August 30, 2010 page 20 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Notre Dame loses to Arizona in last match 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish kicked off their season this weekend with two wins and a loss at the Shamrock Invitational at the Purcell Pavilion. 
The team took down Marshall Friday and Cal Poly Saturday but fell short to No. 18 Arizona Sunday to close the weekend. 
“Although we wanted to play better against Arizona, the team was able to do some really good things this weekend, ” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “We were able to see how the team gelled, as well as see how some freshmen would perform.” 
Notre Dame fell to the Wildcats in three sets (25­15, 25-18, 25-20) to move both teams to 2-1. 
Freshman outside hitter Andrea McHugh started her Irish career with a bang as she led the team with 12 kills against Arizona for an average 3.08 kills/set and 
3.17 digs/set across the weekend. McHugh also recorded Notre Dame’s solo ace against Arizona. 
“Andrea is an outstanding all-around player,” Brown said. “She led the team 
Fallen sets 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Irish senior Kellie Sciacca and freshman Andrea McHugh go up for the block Sunday against Arizona at the Purcell Pavilion. The Irish lost to the Wildcats 3-0 to go 2-1 in their opening weekend. 
defensively all weekend and percentage coming against to close the game. Dealy led was one of our top hitters.” Marshall. the team with 19 kills and 14 
Senior middle hitter Kelly Junior outside hitter digs in the match. Sciacca gave an impressive Kristen Dealy pulled through Freshman setter Sammie performance throughout the for her team Saturday to Brown stepped up on the weekend, making a team -secure the victory over Cal court and facilitated the high 48 kills, with a career-Poly, making three straight high 21 kills and .645 hitting kills in the fifth and final set see BROWN/page 18 
SMC GOLF 
Belles open fall season with a win 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
The Belles teed off strongly this weekend when they claimed first place at the Trine Fall Invitational at Zollner Golf Course with a combined score of 660. 
Belles coach Mark Hamilton said he was pleased with his team ’s performance in its first match of the fall season and with the consistency the players displayed. 
“I expected the young players to score well, and for the most part, they did,” Hamilton said. “The older players were also steady.” 
Senior Mary Kate Boyce led Saint Mary’s with a 79 Saturday and an 84 Sunday to finish third. Freshman Doyle O’Brien followed close behind, taking four strokes off her Saturday round to finish with an 80 Sunday, taking fourth while senior Rosie O’Connor fin­ished fifth with scores of 84 and 82. Freshman Marin Beagley rounded out the Belles scoring with an 84 and 83 to tie for sixth. Sophomore Jessica Kinnick 
see BELLES/page 18 

MEN’S SOCCER 
Irish defeat Ohio State, IPFW 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
The No. 18 Irish wrapped up preseason scrimmages over the weekend with two wins at the National Soccer Festival in Fort Wayne, defeating No. 14 Ohio State 2-0 Saturday and besting IPFW 3-0 on Sunday. 
The Irish opened up play against the Buckeyes with an immediate goal in the sixth minute from senior forward Jeb Brovsky, who scored from well inside the penalty box after working through the Buckeye defense. 
Brovsky’s strike remained the only scoring in the match until well after halftime. In the 63rd minute, sophomore mid­fielder Dillon Powers found 
see POWERS/page 18 

IAN GAVLICK/The Observer Junior Adam Mena takes control in the Big East quarterfinals last season against South Florida. Mena scored twice Sunday at IPFW. 
MEN’S GOLF 
Scodro looked at to help team reach goals 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
While the Irish look to build on last year ’s suc ­cesses when they finished second in the Big East, the team ’s fortune depends largely on Max Scodro. 
A double monogram win­ner from Chicago, Scodro, a junior, was named to the All-Big East squad in each 
of his first two seasons with the Irish. His sopho­more season concluded at the Big East Championships with a first place finish, as he tied Georgetown ’s Vincenzo Salina, Evan Beirne of St. John’s, and teammate Tom Usher, before losing in the four-man sudden death playoff. 
Heading into the 2010-11 campaign, Scodro owns the third-best stroke aver­age in program history 
(74.36) through two sea ­sons. Forty -six of his 51 rounds (26 of 27 during the 2009-10 season) have been counted since the start of his collegiate career, a strong enough average for the fifth best percentage since 1990. 
In the 2009 -10 season, Scodro played in 11 events for the Notre Dame team, posting a 73.96 stroke average, notching three 
see SCODRO/page 18 






