the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Crawfords reflect on Desert to Dome journey 
College of Science dean, wife bike 2,200 miles to raise research funds, awareness for neurodegenerative disease 

By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
When Gregory Crawford, dean of the College of Science, and his wife Renate left Tucson, Ariz., with their final destination 29 days and 2,200 miles away, they knew there would be some long days ahead. 
“We biked between six and 11 hours a day,” he said. “A shorter day would be 80 miles and the longest day was 120 miles. There was one 60-mile day, but that was in the mountains of New Mexico.” 
Desert to Dome, the couple’s journey from Arizona to Notre Dame, raised awareness and funding to find a cure for Niemann-Pick Type C, a neu­rodegenerative disease. 

Renate Crawford said efficien­cy was crucial in planning the trip. It factored into what time they began their journey each day and how they ate meals, which were provided by a sup­port van that rode with them. 
“We left really early in the morning. During the hours [on the road] we were handed food,” she said. “We were trying to minimize down time.” 
Gregory Crawford said the amount of physical exertion they completed each day left them both extremely tired and hungry once they finished the day’s trip. 
“We ate twice as many calo­ries as we normally do. At the end of the day, we had to update our blog and Skype with our kids,” he said. “When you ride for that long, you kind of lie down and crash.” 
Desert to Dome was not only a personal accomplishment for the Crawfords, it also marked the beginning of a partnership between Notre Dame and the Parseghian Foundation, named for former Irish football coach 
see DESERT/page 4 


Photos courtesy of Gregory and Renate Crawford 

Left, Gregory and Renate Crawford celebrate reaching the Texas milestone of their trip from Arizona to Notre Dame. Right, Gregory Crawford bikes at sunset. 



Students attend Career Expo 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Abbey Coons remembers attending Notre Dame’s Career Expo in 2003, where she secured an internship for General Electric (GE). Now, she’s back as a recruiter looking for students with initiative and experience. 
“I think companies like GE specifically like Notre Dame’s work ethic and integrity,” she said. “It really meshes with company values.” 
Nearly 1,800 students attended the Fall Career Fair Wednesday at the Joyce Athletics and Convocation Center to scout out summer internships and post­graduate jobs from 140 compa­nies — just as Coons once did. 
To prepare for the Career Fair, many students took advantage of the services at the Career Center in Flanner Hall. 
“There have been many stu­dents even early in the year,” said Laura Flynn, assistant director at 
see CAREER/page 4 



Indiana excise police meet with community 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 

When the Indiana State Excise police were founded during prohibition 97 years ago, they were known as the “liquor police.” 
Now, they still handle alco­hol-related cases, but one of their main goals is to make their presence known within the community, master offi­cer Michelle Traughber said at a community relations meeting Wednesday. 
The University’s Office of Community Relations held a meeting with the excise police in downtown South Bend not to discuss a recent spike in alcohol -related arrests, but to learn more about the excise police and their place in the community. 
The force, which works to provide support to local task forces and special investiga­tion units, employs 90 officers who cover six dis­tricts across the state. 
The excise police run the Fatal Alcohol Crash Team, which assists at accident scenes involving alcohol. They also assist at DUI checkpoints, investigate pri­vate areas of alcohol estab­lishments and issue permits to individuals and businesses that sell alcohol. 
One of their main goals, however, is to make their presence known in areas of the community where offens­es become a major problem as a deterrent to violators. 
“If people don’t fear being arrested, they will continue to break the law,” Traughber said. 
After the presentation was over, Traughber opened the floor to questions, at which point the topic turned to the 
see EXCISE/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Senate approves service website page 3  Vampire Weekend review page 8  Dual-threat running backs page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Thursday, September 9, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT  S YOUR FAVOR TE MYTH CAL CREATURE?
THE OBSERVER 







P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 djacobs1@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Sarah Mervosh Eric Prister John Cameron Andrew Owens Liz O’Donnell Scene Graphics Alex Kilpatrick Lisa Hoeynck Viewpoint Photo Michelle Maitz Tom La Ren Brauweiler 
OFFBEAT 
Ky. farmer claims some corn popped on the stock 
ELIZABETHTOWN, Ky. – A Hardin County farmer said that some ears among his feed corn rows popped on the stalk in a phenomenon that agricul­tural experts believe is associated with irregular rainfall and high heat. 
Star Mills farmer Patrick Preston sent a photo of the burst kernels that look like partially popped popcorn to the University of Kentucky Cooperative Extension Service. 
Hardin County Extension agent Doug Shepherd told The News Enterprise he’s never seen popped kernels 

Camila Inarra  Hayley Evans  Kevin Dunne  Marti McGraw  Mike Wiederecht  
freshman  freshman  sophomore  sophomore  junior  
McGlinn  Ryan  Duncan  Pangborn  Keenan  

“Fairies.” “The Basilisk.” “My roommate, “Harry Potter.” “Ranga.” Mike Mellitt.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

before. 
Shepherd said the outer coat of a kernel can explode from heat after the ears are pollinated. Temperatures in corn fields can be 10 degrees higher than in the sur­rounding area as the plants are producing energy. 
Suspect’s haircut leads to his arrest 
SEATTLE – A woman who was robbed of $310 while sitting at a Seattle traffic light gave police a detailed description of the man who stuck a gun in her open window. 
He had “GET MONEY” shaved into the hair on one side of his head. He also had “GET” tattooed 
on his right hand and “MONEY” on his left hand. 
The Seattle pi.com reports a detective searched records using the tattoo information and identified a suspect who was later pulled over by a patrol officer in the Lake City neighborhood. 
His “GET MONEY” hair­cut and tattoos matched, and 18-year-old Larry Shawn Taylor was identi­fied by the victim in the Aug. 23 robbery. 
Now, he’s held in the King County Jail for investigation of robbery. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Notre Dame ROTC and the American Red Cross are sponsoring a blood drive today at noon in the LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 
Shakespeare’s “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” will be performed by Actors from the London Stage at Washington Hall at 7:30 p.m. tonight. Tickets are $12 for students and available at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center ticket office or by vis­iting performingarts.nd.edu. 
Apple National Consulting Engineer Steve Hayman will discuss and demonstrate how individuals and institutions are building innovative mobile applications for the iPhone and iPod Touch. It will take place at 3:00 p.m. in 105 Jordan Hall of Science. 
The Snite Museum of Art will host the exhibit: “ Parallel Currents: Highlights of the Ricardo Pau-Llosa Collection of Latin American Art today from 
10:00 a.m. untill 5:00 p.m. today in the O’Shaughnessy West Gallery. The collection features contemporary Latin American artworks from the collection of Ricardo Pau-Llosa. 
John Matthias will perform his poem -drama “ Ballet Mecanique,” with the voices of Joyelle McSweeney and Stephen Fredman and image and sound by Chris Jara in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium tonight at 5:00 
p.m. All are welcome to attend 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



72 50 HIGH 7578 7578
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

52 47 LOW 5860 5855 







Thursday, September 9, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 




Senate pushes for service website 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
The Student Senate unani­mously passed a resolution at their meeting Wednesday pro­posing serve.nd.edu, a website to centralize information about service opportunities both on campus and in the local commu­nity for Notre Dame students. 
“The goal for this resolution is to take the first step in the longer process of trying to clarify service opportunities at Notre Dame,” social concerns chair Pat McCormick said. 
McCormick said the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) and stu­dent government want to reach out to people who do not have a direct link to some of the possi­ble volunteer activities. 
The University’s mission state­ment calls for a concern for common good, and therefore, a commitment to service, the reso­lution said. 
“We have some of the greatest opportunities for service of any college or university in the coun­try,” McCormick said. “But peo­ple are not always getting involved outside of what they hear about through their friends.” 
The resolution said a listing such as serve.nd.edu “has the potential to significantly increase involvement in service on cam­pus and in the community.” 
The website would centralize scattered information as well as “bridge the gap between University events and communi­ty events,” McCormick said. 

“I think if a lot of people miss signing up for something during Activities Night, then they do not know how to get involved,” Badin Hall senator Ellen Carroll said. “I think this is a great idea.” 
The Committee for Social Concerns is working with the CSC, student government, serv­ice organizations and the Office of Information Technologies to determine the mechanics of the serve.nd.edu site, McCormick said. 
McCormick said students and service organizations would also be able to post information about the entire spectrum of available volunteer opportuni­ties. 
“This website would not be just a laundry list of service opportunities,” McCormick said. “It will clarify the layout of serv­ice opportunities on campus.” 
Cavanaugh Hall senator Tegan Chapman said ensuring informa­tion is current would be the biggest challenge in maintaining the website. 
Other websites like rent.nd.edu do not always pro­vide up-to-date information, Chapman said. 
McCormick said the only way serve.nd.edu would follow its goals would be if the administra­tors were able to provide cur­rent calendars. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle 11@nd.edu 



College’s jazz concert to benefit non-profit 
By LUCIE GORDON 
News Writer 

Saint Mary’s students and fac­ulty looking to jazz up their fall schedules are in luck tonight. 
A jazz benefit concert will take place at 7:30 p.m. in the O’Laughlin Auditorium. Proceeds from the performance will benefit Children of Abraham, a nonprofit organiza­tion that sends medical supplies to impoverished countries around the world. 
Children of Abraham has pro­vided more than $60 million in aid to medical clinics and hospi­tals serving the “poorest of the poor,” said David Schrader, vice 
president  of the  Board  of  
Directors  for  Children  of  
Abraham.  

The organization aids 29 nations, and its most recent efforts have primarily focused on assisting Haiti. 
In addition to providing aid to countries in need, Children of Abraham aims to unite differ­ent religious groups in commu­nities. 
“Muslims have paid for ship­ments to Christian hospitals, and vice versa. Jews and Muslims have worked together to provide for relief in Haiti through a Christian organiza­tion,” said Schrader. 
Christopher Sallak, patron services and marketing manag­er for Saint Mary’s, said the concert will be another oppor­tunity for Saint Mary’s students to continue their history of serv­ing the community and those in need. 
“Partnering with Children of Abraham for this benefit con­cert is a great opportunity for our student body to support another faith-based organiza­tion and their recent work in Haiti,” Sallak said. 
Tonight’s concert will feature music by popular jazz artists Bryan Lubeck, David Wells and the Jim Pickley Trio. 
Lubeck, a Latin guitarist, is featured on WNUA 95.5 radio in Chicago. His album “Acoustic Vineyard,” released in 2004, blends his Latin guitar with an urban-sounding band, creating a more modern sound. 
On the flugelhorn and trum­pet, Wells released eight CDs and has been featured in Christian music magazines. He has also appeared on the BET Station’s show “Studio Jams”. 
The Jim Pickley Trio, which plays every Sunday at a Michiana church, has been per­forming for more than 20 years. 
“Children of Abraham should be supported because we save lives. Simple as that,” said Schrader. 
Tickets are $10 for students and $15 for faculty members. 

Contact Lucie Gordon at lgordo01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 9, 2010 

Desert 
continued from page 1 
Ara Parseghian, who lost three grandchildren to the disease. 
Gregory Crawford said all these factors made for a highly symbolic trip, for him, his wife and the organizations involved. 
“It was one of those things that was once in a lifetime on a personal level. But thinking big picture, Notre Dame and the Parseghian Foundation are entering a new partnership, so this bike ride is symbolic because the Foundation is in Tucson,” he said. “Also, we can raise awareness and find the cure for Niemann-Pick Type C through scientists at Notre Dame and worldwide.” 
Renate Crawford said Notre Dame helped fund the trip, as the couple stayed at roadside hotels along the way. 
She said the desert climate and terrain often contributed to negative emotions along the journey, but the inspiring nature of the trip won out. 
“Sometimes there were days of frustration because it was so long and hot. But we reminded ourselves that this was nothing compared to what the Parseghians went through,” Crawford said. 
Gregory Crawford also said the experiences of the Parseghians helped factor in driving the duo to push them­selves every day. 
“There were emotions because we were riding for the Parseghian Foundation,” he said. “There was a sign of the Parseghian kids on the side of the van that was kind of like our own version of the ‘Play Like a Champion Today’ sign.” 
He said the couple engaged in a specialized training program for the trip, which included 


Excise 
continued from page 1 
recent wave of un derage drinking ar rests of Notre Dame students. 
But Notre Dame Crime Prevention Officer Keri Kei Shiba ta, who oversaw the presentation, said that topic was not the purpose of the meeting. 
“We are not going to com­ment on the recent incidents. We are here to talk about what the excise police can do for our comm unity, ” she said. 
Still, audience mem bers asked questions related to student drinking. 
Chip Lewis, an atto rney with Lewis an d Wilkins, asked how officers deter ­mine when to arrest students and when to cite students. 
“Under age drinking is a misdemeanor for which you can be arrest ed, ” said Corporal Chris Bard of the excise police. 
He said officers take on a certain liability when releas­ing intoxicated people into the community and some officers are not willing to take that risk. 
“Regardless of arrest or just being issued a citation, you will still have to appear before a judge,” Bard said. 
He said the best way to avoid arrest and other con­sequences is to co operate with the police. 
“You still have to appear in front of a judge, but in the report the officer writes if you cooperated or not,” Bard said. “That affec ts the judge’s decision.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 



Career 
continued from page 1 
the Career Center. “It’s been a busy couple of weeks.” 
Junior Amy Holsinger worked with the Career Center to prepare her résumé. 
“I feel like I’ve been living in Flanner the past few weeks,” she said. “The résumé review has been amazing.” 
But even with preparation, standing out in a sea of accom­plished, suit-clad students isn’t easy. 
“I did an internship before, but I know it’s hard for most people to get one,” senior Caitlin Foster said. 
Flynn said students of a variety of ages were expected to attend the Career Fair. 
“We definitely expect the seniors to be looking for jobs, and the sophomores and juniors for intern­ships,” she said. 
This dedication and enthusiasm for finding a job doesn’t go unno­ticed by potential employers. 
“They’ve really provided a new high standard,” said Dian Flittner of Sentry Insurance. 
Laurie Bryne, representing the medical equipment manufacturer Stryker, said the company plans to recruit Notre Dame students heav­ily. 

running up and down the steps of Notre Dame Stadium to build leg strength needed for the New Mexican mountains. 
“We cross-trained a lot. We probably put in 1,000 to 1,200 miles biking on the road before,” Gregory Crawford said. “We did a lot of spinning, weightlifting and running. Biking in the wind in Indiana from March to July really helped us.” 
He said the natural wonders around them were awe-inspir­ing and one of the highlights of 
“We elevated the status of Notre Dame in 2008 as a core school, which is a school that Stryker has determined to partner with to recruit for the entire company,” said Byrne, the company’s associ­ate director of staffing and talent sourcing. 
Though many students hope to obtain an interview as a result of the Career Fair, Kevin Monahan, associate director of the Career Center, said attending the Career Expo doesn’t necessarily have to be part of a detailed strategy for finding a career. 
Instead, it can provide the stu­dents with the chance to get their names into the opening market, he said. 
“Career Expos are about getting information from employers and making a good impression,” he said. “The economy is still a little tight, but things are definitely look­ing up for employment.” 
Still, many students hope the Career Expo will lead to success stories like that of Coons, who expects companies to continue considering Notre Dame students as strong candidates. 
“I received an internship with GE through the same recruiting process in 2003 and have been with them ever since,” she said. 


Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczauer@nd.edu 
their ride. 
“The mountains in New Mexico were spectacular. They had just had rain before we arrived, so the desert was blos­soming,” he said. 
The couple said in addition to the breathtaking scenery dur­ing the trip, interacting with Notre Dame Clubs along the way was one of the greatest rewards of their Desert to Dome experience. 
“Tulsa was pretty unbeliev­able. A few of their Notre Dame Club members rode with us that day,” Gregory Crawford said. 
After their nearly month-long journey, Renate Crawford said the arrival back to the Notre Dame campus was an unforget­table welcome home that no other university could have pro­vided. 
“We saw the Dome, we saw the people and excitement and then we heard the fight song and it was overwhelming,” she said. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 



page 5 The Observer  NEWS Thursday, September 9, 2010 


Priests, students meet to pray, discuss vocation 
By CALIE MOHAMED 
News Writer 
Fr. Pat Reidy, a 2008 Notre Dame graduate who recently joined the priesthood, spent Wednesday night with under­graduates who might be con­sidering the same calling. 
Corby Night, held in Corby Hall, was an evening of prayer and conversation between cur­rent priests and men consider­ing priesthood on campus. 
Reidy said the night would give men considering priest­hood the opportunity to talk in a comfortable setting within a community that shares a simi­lar understanding and mis­sion. 
Reidy said he was strongly influenced as an undergradu­ate by Fr. Jim King, his former rector in Sorin College who told him, “If you’re discerning the religious life, just try it.” 
The night began with a wel­coming by many of the priests in the Holy Cross Seminary. A night prayer service followed, during which Fr. Matt Kuczora delivered a homily about his reasons for becoming a priest. 
The event concluded with a chance for those interested in any aspect of vocation to have a friendly meet and greet with priests from all over campus. 
There was no pressure to commit, but the night was meant to “simply let people know of the different opportu­nities on campus that might help them in discerning how God is calling them to live,” said Fr. Ralph Haag, rector of St. Edward’s Hall. 
He said he hoped Corby Night would help men move in the direction that God wishes for them to serve, whether or not that includes the priest­hood. 
Kuczora said the priests shared moving stories and rea­sons for their unique lifestyle, which were meant to help men who attended Corby Night dis­cern their own feelings. The priests encouraged anyone who even slightly feels God’s calling to come and be assisted by a welcoming community. 
Holy Cross Seminary offers many programs for anyone interested in vocation. For a list of upcoming events and seminary news, visit www.vocation.nd.edu 

Contact Calie Mohamed at cmohamed@nd.edu 





Colo. wildfires run rampant 

Associated Press 
BOULDER, Colo.— A wildfire burning in the canyons and steep mountainsides near Boulder became one of the most destructive blazes in Colorado history Wednesday as authorities determined it had destroyed at least 135 homes in just three days. 
Authorities provided the dire assessment as firefighters encountered a tangle of rat­tlesnakes, downed power lines and combustible propane tanks and struggled to get an upper hand on the inferno. 
The Boulder County sherif’’s office said Wednesday that 135 homes have been destroyed — a toll likely to rise as the blaze rages on and firefighters get a clearer picture of the damage. 
About 3,500 people have been evacuated from about 1,000 homes stemming from a fire that broke out in a parched area near of Boulder on Monday. Residents of four neighborhoods will be allowed to return home Thursday morning. It wasn’t clear how many homes that involves. 
Four people remain missing as some residents have stayed behind and risked their lives to try to save their homes. 
No deaths or injuries have been reported at this point, and the cause of the fire was not known. 
The fire west of Boulder is not large in terms of size — only about 6,200 acres, or about 10 square miles. But it struck in a populated area that inflicted major property dam­age. 
The reported loss of homes surpasses that of the 2002 Hayman fire in southern Colorado that was the most destructive in the state’s histo­ry. That fire destroyed 133 homes and 466 outbuildings over 138,000 acres in a more sparsely populated area that includes national forest land. 
Todd Martin, incident com­mander, told a crowd of about 600 at a public meeting Wednesday night in Boulder that it has cost $2.1 millon so far to fight the fire. 

Firefighters took advantage of cooler temperatures and light rain to attack the wildfire Wednesday but authorities acknowledged they still don’t have a good handle of the blaze. Fire officials scheduled a meeting night on the University of Colorado campus to update the community. 
“We just don’t have control of the fire,” Sheriff’s Cmdr. Rick Brough said Wednesday after­noon as some rain began falling over the fire area. 
Air tankers dumped 35,000 gallons of fire retardant on the blaze and crews began build­ing containment lines on the eastern side of the fire. The large plume of smoke the fire had been producing since it started has dissipated because of the favorable weather. However, the fire was still actively burning and threaten­ing structures, forcing some deputies doing an inventory of the damage to retreat. 
Fire managers said as many as 500 firefighters and support personnel are at the fire and more are on the way. Laura McConnell, spokeswoman for the management team, said crews are dealing with downed power lines, debris, poison ivy and rattlesnakes. They also have to be watchful for propane tanks in the area. 
Brough said the conditions make it too dangerous for anx­ious residents to return to check on their homes. The fire has also destroyed at least four outbuildings and damaged at least 12 homes, according to a list released by the Boulder County sheriff’s office. 
At the Colorado Mountain Ranch, 60-year-old Mike Walker has been making a stand against the fire with his wife and 25-year-old daughter in a desperate effort to save the children’s summer camp and outdoor recreation center they operate. 
“He’s safe, he’s up there,” said Walker’s 19-year-old daughter Rose, who evacuated. “He just won’t leave. We never doubted where he was, he just won’t leave for anybody.” 
Rose Walker said her father, mother and sister are trying everything to save their ranch, with her father using a tractor to scoop up flames away from structures, “literally dragging the fire away from the build­ings.” On Wednesday, Rose Walker said her family were still at their ranch, using rakes and backpacks filled with water and a hose to put out any hot spots. 
Fire conditions were expect­ed to worsen Thursday night into Friday and the risk of any new fires quickly spreading was high along the populated Front Range region, according to the National Weather Service. 
Seven of the country’s 19 heavy air tankers have been sent to Colorado to fight the blaze, considered the nation’s top firefighting priority. Two more have been dispatched to the fire, said Ken Frederick, spokesman for the National Interagency Fire Center in Boise, Idaho. 
Families like the Walkers have been carrying out their own fight against the fire. 
Firefighters have been sup­plying them with water when they can and Rose Walker said she’s been crossing into the fire zone to bring her family food and supplies, although authori­ties have been reluctant to let her come up to the ranch. 
Despite her family’s efforts, 35 structures have burned, including the family’s home, sheds, barns and work areas, Rose Walker said. It’s not clear if those are among the total structures that authorities have already confirmed have burned. 
“It’s everything to us. It’s home, it’s our work, it’s our life,” Rose Walker said. 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 6 Thursday, September 9, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Barbeque 

One of my various summer expe­ditions this summer was to check out a few concerts, pretty college, I know. One of those concerts fea­tured a band called Animal Liberation Orchestra, bet-Matthew ter known as Robison ALO, who opened for Jack Sports Johnson. One of Production their songs, Editor “Barbeque,” inspired me to adopt a new perspective on life. Although its lyrics are slightly dif­ferent from the message I took away, it is a refreshing outlook. 
As cheesy as it might sound, it is rather simple: Live life like it’s a barbecue. The essentials: Surround yourself with family, friends, good music and delicious food and beverages. 
Do you know anyone who does not enjoy a summer barbecue? Show me that person and I will show you an individual whose life is nothing but miserable. 
Most people might respond to my new credo with the thought, “Well I do that already.” 
Well, what I’m saying, is to go out of your way to make this happen. 
Tell your supervisor that you can­not work on the weekend because you have planned a gathering with your friends. Even if you have not, plan it. Turn the television off, put your textbook down and just sit, listen and enjoy music. Truly expe­rience it. 
Call your grandparents, uncle, aunt or long-distance cousin. Ask them how they have been. Care about what they have to say. 
Go online and find a recipe for a dish you’ve never cooked before, flip to a random page in the phone-book under “restaurants” and go there. Choose an item on the menu at your favorite eatery that you’ve never tried before. Experiment with “dining hall innovations.” My new favorite? A buffalo chicken wrap. 
Now, I’m only 19 years old, and I feel like every time I sit down to write a column I end up trying to dish out wisdom. I know I don’t have the answer to how to live a happy life. 
But I think the “barbecue” lifestyle is an excellent paradigm to work with, “summer state of mind,” if you will. We all enjoy friends, family, music, and food. But sometimes we care so much about everything else going on in our lives that we introvert our­selves so much that we never truly enjoy these life essentials. 
So, to quote ALO, “welcome to your barbecue, pig out and dream anew.” 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobiso@nd.edu 

You can always have a do-over 
Isn’t it funny how the new school year isn’t even three full weeks old and already it doesn’t feel all that new anymore? Remember when you used to have to check your schedule to find out which 
Katharine
class you had next, or even Barrett (when no one was looking) a map to Faithpoint find out how to get to whichever class you had next? Guess what? That was only about 10 days ago. It’s amazing how, in such a short time, you become familiar with the unfamiliar, and it feels like you’ve been here forever. Maybe, even this early in the semester, you’ve already had the chance to experience the slippery slope. Have you skimped on the last few chapters of a reading assignment because everyone was going out? Sliiiip. Studied a whole afternoon less than you should have because someone texted you from the quad with a Frisbee? Sliiiip. Perhaps drank more than you intended to celebrate our victory over Purdue? Sliiip. We can ignore the sound of ourselves sliding down that slippery slope, but if we do, we’ll lose the opportunity to put the brakes on, to right ourselves and get back on track, to make sure the direction we’re headed is really where we want to go. 
Perhaps you heard before you came here, “Oh, college is a chance for new beginnings! It’s a fresh start! Make the most of it!” All of which is true. So, given the opportu­nity for a fresh start, in a new place, with new friends, new classes, where no one knows that in high school you were a geek, or a party animal, or a soccer player, or the valedictorian, or whatever … have you made the most of it? Certainly none of us came here thinking, “I’m so excited to go to Notre Dame. I can start out my career here as a really heavy drinker!” or, “Can’t wait ‘til college so I can sleep in and miss my 
8:00 class!” or, “I bet I’ll meet some guys down the hall and spend all my time playing Halo 3 with them instead of getting involved on cam­pus!” But have we found ourselves in a place we never expected to be and can’t quite figure out how we got there? 
Rest assured you’re not the first person ever to experience the slip­pery slope phenomenon. You recog­nize the expression simply because it’s been a part of the human condi­tion since Eve said, “OK; well, just this once.” Entire crowds of people have been sliding for thousands of years — remember Moses and the Israelites in the desert? Moses and his people have met the Lord in smoke and thunder; they’ve received the teachings of the Ten Commandments (including the spe­cific directive not to create idols), and while Moses is away on the mountain, his own brother Aaron helps the people make a golden calf to worship. Sliiip — it’s oh so easy to lose your focus on what’s most important in life. Moses begs God for mercy, and gathers around himself those willing to commit to re-focus­ing, to a fresh start with the Lord. 
Fresh starts are tougher than advertised. They’re a bit more work than we’d like to admit; we really have to pray hard and think and examine who we want to be. We’re not always willing to make the time and to take the mental energy required to do so, and lots of dis­tractions eat away at our days and nights. However, even if the start of this year doesn’t feel so fresh to you any more, there’s always time for a do-over. Make your own new way; be the person you can be proud to be; never forget what the people you admire most have taught you. Notre Dame can truly be a place where you will feel most like the person God created you to be, not the least bit lost at all, and ready to navigate any unfamiliar territory that comes your way. 

Moses approached the Lord to ask for a fresh start after his people had lost their way, and in the 3,000 or so years since then, the Bible describes many more instances in which indi­viduals or peoples get caught slip­ping off track without even realizing it until they discover they’re in quite alien territory, a place they never meant to be. Yet our God seeks the lost sheep; searches for the lost coin; rejoices with the father whose prodi­gal son has returned. With compas­sion, mercy and joy, God will walk with each one of us who looks to him for direction — through the word of God and the sacraments of the Church — and who earnestly seeks to become the person we’re meant to be. 
This week’s column was written by Kate Barrett, director of the Emmaus program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A hero is no braver than an 
“Where so many hours have beenordinary man, but he is braver five 
spent in convincing myself that Iminutes longer.” 
am right, is there not some reasonto fear I may be wrong?” 
Ralph Waldo Emerson Jane AustenU.S. poet English novelist 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 
Thursday, September 9, 2010 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Co-ex’s more than just food 
The Saint Mary’s community received an extremely unpleasant shock at the beginning of this semester when they learned that co-ex meal exchange tickets are no longer available to the entire stu­dent body. We are all aware that this change must be due to the financial troubles that the College is experiencing, and that is understandable. 
What is not understandable is how the student body is being treated in the aftermath of what the college must have known would be an incredible disappointment. The loss of co-ex feels very much like one more step away from the Notre Dame community we all love. Yes, Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s College and Holy Cross College are all separate institutions in their own right with different things to offer, but we are, or at least we are supposed to be, one student body. 
When I visited Saint Mary’s as a senior in high school, I was told by everyone in charge of recruiting for the school that I would be a part of the Notre Dame academic, extra-curricular and social life. I was told I would get “the best of both worlds.” So imagine my shock, dismay and embarrassment when last night at the co-ex forum I brought up this issue and was told flat out, “No. We made no such promise.” The representative went on to claim that the stu­dents’ social activities are no concern of the College. Co-ex’s are only given to students with “legitimate” excuses such as clubs, sports or band. 
The Saint Mary’s administration needs to understand that the social connection with Notre Dame is a major attraction to students. I love Saint Mary’s and would never wish to transfer to Notre Dame, but feeling included in the social life of Notre Dame is one of the things that makes Saint Mary’s special. These Holy Cross institu­tions have shared roots that date all the way back to Father Sorin, who intended them to be a community together. It’s not just trivial. It’s not just a co-ex: We’re putting our status as part of this commu­nity at risk. 
Emily Schmitt 
junior 
LeMans Hall 
Sept. 8 


‘beND’ 
Last weekend NDSP notified the student body that they are investigating three reports of sexual assault on Notre Dame’s campus. These reports brought to light an issue that occurs more often than one might assume, and that yields tragic results. At Notre Dame, we talk about “the Notre Dame family” and we all enjoy the feeling of home that this campus offers each of us. As members of this community, it lies with us to take care of each other and to foster a responsible community in every way we can so that everyone can have the best experience possible. You, as a part of the Notre Dame community, can be vital in preventing sexual assault. 
As members of student government, we are continually awestruck by the responsibility and integrity of Notre Dame students. We also know that with a little more vigilance and awareness, many of these saddening instances of sexual assault can be prevented. Unfortunately, the majority of sexual assaults at Notre Dame occur between two students who know each other, usually when one or both parties is under the influence of alco­hol. Sexual assault occurs when members of our community hurt others in our community. While this is a daunting fact, it also shows that we can make an impact and can help to improve our community. This is especially true when we attend parties with alcohol. Watch out for your friends and even those you don’t know. Please “beND” and be responsible for each other. Be chivalrous and kind, if someone looks overly intoxicated, do your part in making sure they get home safely. Never leave an intoxicated per­son alone. Also, take care of yourself. Travel in groups and try not to lose your friends. Watch your drinks. Look out for those who look unable to ward off unwanted advances. 
If you are interested in other ways that you can protect yourself and your friends, think about attending Active Bystander Training on Sept. 22 from 6-8:30pm. For more information about this event, and about sexual assault, visit grc.nd.edu. 
As the Notre Dame family, we are given many blessings, but along with those great blessings come great responsibilities. Enjoy the weekend, “beND” and Go Irish! 
Mariah McGrogan 
senior 
Tim Castellini 
senior Senate’s Gender Issues Committee Sept. 8 




Game weekend support 
Let me begin by commending you on your enthusiasm and rowdiness this last weekend against Purdue. You set the tempo right away with a huge turnout to the first pep rally and carried it over to the game on Saturday. In the past, however, we’ve seen a drop off in attendance and support at the pep rallies and games as the season went on. I’m urging you today not to comply with those negative traditions. This weekend marks one of the biggest rivalries in college sports as two of the win­ningest college football programs in the nation square off in what is sure to be an electrifying game. It is time for us to take ownership in our football team and show them that we will be there rain or shine, yelling till we’re hoarse, and never doubt­ing for a second that they’re going to beat up on Michigan all day Saturday. 
That support starts on Friday at the pep rally. Coach Kelly and the football team will be on stage at the pep rally and we need to show them that the entire student body is ready to start building the excitement right away. Student government has organized a parade to lead our entire student body over to our pep rally venue at the Irish Green Friday afternoon. The band, cheerleaders and fire department will be waiting at main circle by six o’clock where we want the entire student body to congregate for a walk over. The fire department will lead the students down Notre Dame Ave. and into their own reserved section right in front of the stage for the pep rally. The walk over begins at six o’clock Friday night, so get to main circle early. 
Also, in order to unify our stadium against Michigan this weekend all of the Irish fans should wear Kelly Green to the game. The wolverines will be thunderstruck when they encounter the angry sea of green facing them as they walk out of our tunnel. 
You’re the best student body and fans in the nation and we’re going to start show­ing why teams should fear playing at Notre Dame. We’re going to support our team the whole season, starting Friday night, and they’re going to go out and take care of business on Saturday. Wear Kelly green to the game. Go Irish! Beat Michigan! 
Your Fighting Irish Leprechaun, 

David Zimmer 
senior off-campus Sept. 8 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The Observer 




Scene

page 8 Thursday, September 9, 2010 
By COURTNEY COX pleasantly matched with a light that made the show so great. singing, and quite a bit of ceived that way, and they Scene Writer show that made it look as if the The band started with dancing. embrace it to some extent. The entire venue was under water. “Holiday” from their sopho-The first single off of two songs are a much edgier 
Sunday night may not be the They also took the opportunity more album “Contra,” and it “Contra,” “Cousins,” was one and cooler representation of 
best time for a concert two to use the disco ball located in was fantastic, but the reaction of the highlights of the show. preppy than say, a mom’s cable 
hours away, especially when the center of the ceiling to “Holiday” was T h e knit sweater. 
the day 
above the crowd. 
before was It created the illu­
the season sion of tiny stars 
opener of glittering on the 
the beloved ceiling painted 
Notre Dame the night sky. The 
football lights were by no 
team. All of means the reason 
that didn’t Beach House was 
m a t t e r incredible, howev­
whatsoever er. They were just 

when I as good live as they found out were on their latest there was a album, “Teen Dream” — Vampi re not to be confused with W e e k e n d Katy Perry’s “Teenage concert at Dream.” “Norway” was the Aragon more breathy when Ballroom in played live, which Chicago. enhanced the other-
The Dum worldly sense that Dum Girls already comes from the opened, and track. They were a per-I was sur-fect opener for the prised by insanity that was about how much I to begin. liked them For some reason, I am based only a fan of bands that come on a live out to a crazy pump up f i r s t song, and Vampire impression. Weekend didn’t disap-Dressed in point. At approximately tight black 9:25 p.m., Vampire minidresses Weekend rushed on the and fishnet stage to DJ Khaled’s “All tights, they I Do Is Win.” The crowd clearly dwarfed by the reaction from the crowd upon hearing the second song of the night, “Cape Cod Kwassa Kwassa.” 
Ezra 
Koenig’s calm singing was juxtaposed entirely by the crowd of people practically screaming the lyrics back at him. The rest of the concert can be described in the same way, a lot of screaming, 

short song was packed with 
such intensity that it took me 
by surprise. While the song 
had always been fast paced, it 
seemed more so live than it did 
on the album. It was almost as 
if they were feeding off the crowd, and the frenet­ic energy made the song much more condensed and fast-paced. Va m p i r e Weekend is so 
often associ ­ated with a collegiate, preppy image, and the pairing of “Oxford Comma” and “Campus” near the end of the show brought out that image in a way that showed they know why they’re per-
After they announced their last song, the band left the stage and during the wait for an encore, the entire crowd seemed unable to handle the anticipation. At first, I was concerned the entire floor seemed to be shaking, but it turned out to be my fellow con­cert-goers stomping their feet rapidly on the ground, trying to keep up their energy for Vampire Weekend’s final moments onstage. 
The show ended with “a song about a boy leaving Cape Cod” as Koenig stated. “Walcott” was more rousing than the rest of the songs in the set, in part because it was the final song, but also in part because it’s about movement. It’s about leaving the boundaries of tra­dition as witnessed at the Cape, and in many ways that’s what Vampire Weekend does. They break the accepted norms of indie rock aesthetic and they break the stereotypes about how Ivy Leaguers should act. 

Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
definitely give off an alpha female vibe and a no-nonsense attitude with their catchy pop rock. 
The second opener was Beach House. Having seen them this summer at Pitchfork, I was excited to see them again. Their borderline ethere­al repertoire of songs was 
went crazy and the energy didn’t ever slow down from that point. Drummer Chris Tomson came to play for Chicago dressed in a Ben Gordon Bulls jersey. All of the band members were enthusi­astic and seemed to be enjoy­ing themselves, but Tomson especially brought the energy 



By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 
Written, produced, directed, marketed and starring the sad, strange, self-indulgent Tommy Wiseau, “The Room” is a cine-
It isn’t atrocious. It isn’t appallingly terrible. It isn’t any one of the contrived one-liners that are so often recycled when tearing an awful movie to shreds. No, neither Webster’s dictionary nor 
Many of the lines in the movie are dubbed, with the sound often not matching the actors’ mouth movements. Several shots are so poorly handled that they cut off the heads of the actors and two separate sex scenes use tragedy, in that it’s tragically awful. At the heart of the “plot” is a love triangle made up of Johnny (Wiseau), his girlfriend, Lisa, (Juliette Danielle in a role that should be her last), and Johnny’s best friend, Mark (Greg to make “The Room” into a fea­ture-length film. The rumor goes that his script was so nonsensi­cal that no one in Hollywood gave him a penny. 

So the $7 million it took to 
make the film remains just as mysterious as the film’s title itself. 

matic trainwreck of 
Really, is it called epic proportions. “The Room” because 
As a film it suc-it mostly takes place ceeds in nothing, in the living room? fails at everything, Given Wiseau’s and somehow attempt to make the crosses the thresh-film into a romantic old of being on the epic, it’s highly doubt-level bad made-for-ful he aimed so low in 
the same footage. The line “don’t 
worry about it” is said 14 times 
in the film and a variation of 
“Johnny is your best friend” is said 10 times. To make mat­ters worse, numerous actors are randomly introduced in seemingly impor­tant roles but never even named nor given any real purpose in the film, such as when a couple is caught inexpli­cably having sex in Wiseau’s char­acter’s apartment and nothing is ever said about it. What Wiseau has self-crafted here is like a Shakespearian 

Sestero, who might be the one passable actor in the entire film). 
Along the way we meet vari­ous other characters, most of whom are never named or have no discernable purpose being in the film. For example, there’s Denny, Johnny’s creepy neigh­bor, who is almost killed by a drug dealer in yet another plot thread that is abandoned. 
There’s also the nameless psy­chologist who just sits there looking awkward for half a scene only to start talking to Johnny as though he’s known him forever. Add to that Lisa’s mother, who appears in three scenes and says the same lines over and over, while having her face cut off by Wiseau’s master­ful cinematography. 
The story behind the film is that Wiseau originally made “The Room” as a novel and play. After failing to get an audience for it, he decided to raise funds 
choosing the film’s bland title. 
Despite the film’s atrocious­ness, in the years following the film’s original 2003 showing, “The Room” has amassed a cult following that has propelled the movie into late-night showings and the pages of Entertainment Weekly. Now it draws the title of “the Citizen Kane of bad movies.” 
Every once I blue moon, a film comes along that simply astounds, leaves the audience unable to utter words as the end credits roll across the darkened screen, and that film likely goes on to win Best Picture awards. 
Even rarer is the brand of film that takes itself seriously, yet fails in every possible way, in the process crossing over from truly awful to unbelievably hilarious because of just how bad it is. 


Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 
TV-movie. It skips over the rarely chartered waters of M. Night Shaymalan in “The Happening” and settles into its own level of true suckiness. 
Urbandictionary.com has a word that quite sums it up, because “The Room” is beyond “bad.” 
So, just how beyond bad is it? 


The Observer 



Scene

Thursday, September 9, 2010 page 9 
‘Micmacs’ Browning Cinema, 6:30 and 9:30 p.m. 
Writer-Director Jean -Pierre Jeunet captured American audi­ences with “Amélie,” but his latest film portrays a different type of story. The 2009 French film “Micmacs” satirizes the weapons industry as it follows Bazil, a man seeking revenge for his father’s death by landmine when Bazil was a child. Along the way, he encoun­ters colorful, quirky misfits char­acteristic of a Jeunet film. For fans of the whimsical, charming stories and characters prevalent in Jeunet films, “Micmacs” is playing at 6:30 and 9:30 p.m. in DPAC’s Browning Cinema. 
Rage for the StageWashington Hall, 8 p.m. 
Do you love theater thrown together at the last minute? Sponsored by Student Players, Rage for the Stage puts on a play in under 24 hours. The pieces are written all night Thursday, rehearsed Friday morning and per ­formed Friday night at 8 
p.m. in Washington Hall . Known for being one of the most fun theater events of the year, go, watch and be amazed at the fast, creative minds of fellow Notre Dame students who manage to put together a whole show in such a short period of time. 
Top 40 NightclubLegends, midnight 
Brush off your fatig ue from standing all day at the Notre Dame -Michigan game, and put on your dancing shoes . If you are someone who lik es to know every song pl ayi ng and every word to th ose songs, th e To p 40 Night club at Legends is the place to be at midnight . If you haven ’t already lost your voice from screaming at th e game, you defi nit ely will after belting out the famil ­iar, radio -friendly hits and dancing it up until 4 in the morning . 

Men’s Soccer 
Alumni Stadium, 2 p.m. 
Still missing the World Cup from this summer? Notre Dame has more than one type of football team, and this one is actually ranked. The 18th -ranked men ’s soc ­cer team takes on California Polytechnic State University at 2 p.m. in Alumni Stadium as part of the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament . Even if you still can ’t get into soccer, cheering on your classmates 
on a Sunday afternoon is a much better reason for pro ­crastinating than repeatedly checking Facebook. 
Contact Brandy Cerne at bcerne1@nd.edu 

LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 9, 2010 
Cardinals’ Fitzgerald ready to face Rams 
Associated Press 
TEMPE, Ariz. — Larry Fitzgerald is back in practice and, even in a knee brace, will provide new quarterback Derek Anderson a welcome big-play target when the Arizona Cardinals open the season Sunday in St. Louis. 
Fitzgerald has started all 92 games, plus each of Arizona’s eight postseason contests, since he came into the NFL, and he and his coach have every inten­tion of keeping that streak intact. 
“He was moving along just fine,” coach Ken Whisenhunt said after Wednesday’s practice, Fitzgerald’s second of the week. “He is progressing very well. I know he’s ready to play because it’s been tough for him to watch the last two weeks.” 
Fitzgerald sat out the final three preseason games after spraining his right knee on a nasty hit from Houston’s Eugene Wilson in Arizona’s preseason opener Aug. 14. The injury occurred as Fitzgerald caught a pass over the middle from Matt Leinart. 

“He is progressing
Fitzgerald stayed win. I believe in in for another very well. I know he’s coach series and recip-Whisenhunt 
ready to play because
rocated a big hit and what he’s 
it’s been tough for 
on Wilson, then done here over left the game. him the last two the years. 
Fitzgerald said “Your job is 
weeks.” 
that the coaching not to talk in staff insisted on a the media or 
Ken Whisenhunt 
cautious have an opin­approach to his Cardinals coach ion. It’s your 
Fitzgerald seems comfortable in the leadership role in what he has said could be the mid-point of his career. Once shy of the press, he is exceedingly accom­modating these days. Back from his annual overseas summer trip, this one to Asia, he gave 2­year-old son Devin rides on his Segway after training camp workouts. The two also were fix­tures courtside at Phoenix Suns games. 
Maturation, he said, “is just something that happens” with time. 
He emphatically denied rumors that he had urged the coaches to go with Anderson over Leinart, who was released by the team Saturday and has signed with Houston. 
“I want to clear the air on that one,” Fitzgerald said. “I had nothing to do with that. Somebody told me I was pulling for Derek. I’ve never taken a snap with Derek, so how can I vouch for a man that I haven’t even played with. ... I think it’s unfair to point (to) me as some­body that would do that. I just want to 
injury. 
“I wanted to go earlier,” he said, “but they kept holding me out and I think that was good. Injured, you can be worst enemy sometimes. “ 
Fitzgerald enters his seventh NFL season acknowledged as among the top receivers in the game. Now, though, he must adjust to the absence of fellow standout receiver Anquan Boldin and, most significantly, quarterback Kurt Warner. Boldin was traded to Baltimore and Warner retired. 
No matter, Fitzgerald said. 
“I’ve got to continue to raise my level of play,” he said. “No matter what’s going on around me, I have to go out there and do my job and win and be some­body that my teammates can count on to make plays for them, week in and week out. That’s what I pride myself on.” 
Fitzgerald was elected one of the offense’s captains for the second year in a row. 
“I’m honored to have that,” he said. “I just want to make sure I’m carrying the flag positively every single week and doing the things a captain should do.” 
job to go out 

there and pro­duce and do what you’re asked to do.” 
Fitzgerald must make an adjustment from Warner, one of the best touch passers in NFL history, to the rocket arm of Anderson. 
“We play receiver,” he said. “If it comes hard, we’ve got to catch it. If it comes soft, we’ve got to catch it. If it’s high, we’ve got to catch it. If it’s low, we’ve got to catch it. It’s part of our job description. As long the ball’s coming my way, you’re never going to hear me complain.” 
The ball has come his way more than often, with spectacu­lar results, since he was drafted No. 3 overall as a 19-year-old out of the University of Pittsburgh. 
In week 15 of last season, he became the youngest player in NFL history — at 26 years, 111 days — to reach 7,000 yards receiving. Since 2005, he has more receptions (465) and yards receiving (6,287) than anyone else in the league. In the playoffs two years ago, he shattered most receiving records. 



Morneau expects to return 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — Justin Morneau hasn’t played in a game in more than two months, and it’s been diffi­cult for him to watch his Minnesota Twins slug through a pennant race without him — in more ways than one. 
Morneau said on Wednesday that he is still 
optimistic 
that he will eventually return from his concussion to help out in 2010, even though he still can’t sit in the dugout to watch a full nine innings. 

“To keep the symptoms down they say to limit the stress,” Morneau said with a sheepish shrug. Easier said than done for a player as competitive as Morneau, the 2006 AL MVP and one of the pillars of the Twins clubhouse. He went 

on 
the disabled list after taking a knee to the head while sliding into second base in a game against the Toronto Blue Jays on July 7. He took some batting prac­tice in August and has sat in the dugout for some games at Target Field, but doctors have advised him to take it slowly in those stressful activities to expe­dite the recovery process. 


“We’re late in the game, it’s more wanting to be out there,” Morneau said. “We got a tie game or we’re up by one and we’ve got run­ners on base, you’re sitting there wanting to be out there. The adrenaline starts going and you start­ing thinking about what you would do in that situa­tion. We ’re just trying to limit that stuff. That’s part of it.” 
Morneau hasn ’t played since and is still feeling symptoms from the concus­sion. But he did say he is “having more good days than lineup. Michael Cuddyer “It’s just a long process,” has moved from right field he said. “It ’s frustrating to first base and filled in watching it and not being a 


admirably and the Twins led the Chicago White Sox by 4½ games when the day started on Wednesday. 
It’s the sec­
ond straight September that Morneau has been forced to watch 

bench. He missed the final three weeks of last season and the playoffs with a back injury. 
“Being in here after the game and seeing everybody 
bad ” this 
“The last couple days 
week. 
I’ve felt pretty good
“It comes and goes. The last and been really couple days 
encouraged.” 
I’ve felt pretty good and been 
Justin Morneau 
really encour ­aged,” he said. Twins frst baseman 
“ I t ’s  g o i n g  t o  
t a k e  a  f e w  
d a y s  l i k e  t h a t .  I t ’s  n o t  
going to be just  one  or  two  

where I can all of a sudden go out there and play. I have to feel like myself.” His return sure would be a boost to the Twins, who have surged to the top of the AL Central even with­
out their slugger in the part of it. This is what we 

“Being in here after 
play for and the game and seeing you never know how 
everybody excited, 
many chances 

it’s tough for me to be 
you’re going to around that.” get to win. “Being the first year in 
Justin Morneau 
this stadium 

Twins frst baseman 
from the 
excited, it ’s tough for me to be around that,” Morneau said. “As good as it is to see it, it ’s definitely hard to be around, not feeling like you ’re a part of it.” 
Morneau was hitting .345 with 18 homers and 56 RBIs when he went down the first week in July. Even though he hasn’t played in two months, only Jim Thome (22) and Jason Kubel (19) have more homers than Morneau on the Twins. 
and not being 
able to be a part of it has been very dif­ficult. The boys are playing well, that’s made it easier. 
It’s still my goal of  making  
it back this year.”  
I t  h a s n ’ t  b e e n  a l l  b a d  

news for Morneau. He was recently nominated as a finalist for the Roberto Clemente Award, given annually to a major league player who combines com­munity service with excel­lence on the field. 
“It’s a real special honor,” Morneau said. “What he did as a player and off the field helping so many people was something special and it’s very humbling to be nomi­nated and recognized.” 
Morneau grew up in the Vancouver area and idol ­ized Canucks forward Trevor Linden, who was also very active in the com­munity. He made it a prior­ity to do the same thing when he made it to the big leagues. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
If you or someone you care about 166,875,000,000 pieces of mail are has been sexually assaulted, we delivered each year in the U.S. can help. For more information, visit ———————————————
WANTED FOR RENT LOST AND FOUND PERSONAL 
Notre Dame s website: 27% of U.S. male college students http://csap.nd.edu believe life is "A meaningless hell." UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Apartments for Rent Near Airport, go it alone. Notre Dame has many 12 newborns will be given to the 315 entries in Webster's Dictionary Join a fun, fast growing co called on Busline 1 Bdr. $600 and 2 Bdr. resources in place to assist you. If wrong parents daily. will be misspelled. InvisibleSHIELD by ZAGG. Sales $725 All Util. Included Call Mike Lost Friday, 9/3, black Casio cam-you or someone you love needs ——————————————— ——————————————— associate wanted for kiosk in the 574-250-0191 era in blue belt clip carry case 574-confidential support or assistance, 123,000,000 cars are being driven 5% of Canadians don't know the mall. Call 317-287-4244 ——————————————— 292-1572 please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 down the U.S's highways. first 7 words of the Canadian 
BED &amp; BREAKFAST Football or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more ——————————————— anthem, but know the first 9 of the weekends for ND parents. Two information, visit ND's website at: 160 cars can drive side by side on American anthem. night minimum. 10 min from cam-http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu the Monumental Axis in Brazil, the ——————————————— pus. 272-5640 world's widest road. A cat has 32 muscles in each ear. 
——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
page 11 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, September 9, 2010 

Cowboys’ linemen battling knee injuries 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas — Tony Romo might be without two of his main blockers in the opener Sunday night at Washington. 
Dallas Cowboys right tackle Marc Colombo and left guard Kyle Kosier missed practice again Wednesday because of knee injuries suffered during training camp, leaving little time for them to prove they are healthy enough to play this weekend. 
Colombo is the surprise. He was supposed to have been back a week ago based on the initial timetable when he underwent arthroscopic surgery. 
“If he doesn’t practice this week, I would say he probably wouldn’t play,” coach Wade Phillips said. 
Kosier sprained a ligament and is three weeks into a recovery that was expected to take 4 to 6 weeks. 
Dallas has veteran backups for both: Alex Barron at right tackle, Montrae Holland at left guard. 
Barron was acquired from St. Louis during the offseason to provide depth at both tackle spots. Holland was with Dallas last season, but was inactive for all 16 games. Both started in place of the starters during the preseason. 
Phillips said going with a pair of backups wouldn’t change the game plan much. 
“I think the strength of the guys that are in there, Barron and Holland, are comparable to what we have so you don’t have to change too much,” he said. “Colombo pulled and did some things like that; well, Barron can do that. Montrae is a guard simi­lar to what Kosier does. It’s not a big change as far as the plays you run.” 



Thursday, September 9, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 12 page 13 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, September 9, 2010 




Status of Heisman unclear 

Associated Press 
METAIRIE, La. — Reggie Bush declined to go into any detail Wednesday on what he knows about the status of his 2005 Heisman Trophy. 
“At this point, it’s kind of out of my hands,” Bush said Wednesday after practice with the New Orleans Saints. 
Bush said he could not “con­
firm or deny” whether he has 
met with anyone from the 
Heisman Trophy Trust and 
deferred comment to the trust 
when asked about a Yahoo! 
report that said he could be 
stripped of the award by the end 
of the month. 
“If I’m not mistaken, I believe the Heisman Trust people released a statement saying whatever was (reported) yester­day was inaccurate, so that’s where we’re at,” he said. 
On Tuesday, trust executive director Robert Whalen told The Associated Press that there has been no decision on the status of Bush’s Heisman. 
The NCAA found major viola­tions in USC’s football program and levied serious sanctions against the school in June, including the loss of scholarships and a two-year bowl ban. The Trojans have dissociated them­selves from Bush, who was accused of accepting money and other benefits from sports agents. 
Losing the Heisman could fur­ther tarnish Bush’s legacy, although Bush noted, “On the field, play speaks for itself.” 
“That’s for the fans to kind of 
make their minds up about,” he 
added. 
The NFL’s 2010 regular season kicks off on Thursday night when the Saints host the Minnesota Vikings. 
With the rematch of last sea­
son’s NFC championship game 
looming, Bush said he hasn’t 
even thought about whether he’d 
actually return the trophy if offi­
cially stripped of the award. 
“Here we are the day before the biggest game of the new sea­son and that’s where my focus is,” Bush said. “It’s a big game. We’re playing the Minnesota Vikings. It’s going to be crazy. So that’s where my focus is now. I’ve said all that I want to say and everything else has to play itself out. ... It’s an unfortunate situa­tion for everybody, including the kids at USC.” 
Bush said he has not spoken to anyone at Southern Cal “for a while.” He said he remains friends with Trojans coach Lane Kiffin and talks with him on occasion, but added that he has­n’t “spoken to anybody regarding this specific stuff.” 
Titans quarterback Vince Young finished second in the Heisman balloting in 2005 before beating Bush’s Trojans in the BCS national championship game. He refused to get drawn into any discussion about the Heisman potentially being avail­able. 
“I really don’t kind of know what’s going on, just kind of heard a little bit about it,” Young said. “But no comment. Really no comment about it right now.” 
When asked if he would accept the Heisman if offered to him: 
“No comment right now, no comment,” Young repeated. 


page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, September 9, 2010 

Krisik 
continued from page 16 
bles partner, Kelcy Tefft, fin­ished the season as the No. 1 doubles pair in the nation as well. 
Her sophomore season was more of the same as she and Krisik dominated the dou­bles circuit and reached No. 
1. As a power player, she creates a distinct advantage for her partner. 
“[Frilling] sets her part­ners up with quite a few easy balls because she hits so hard,” Louderback said. 
Krisik has since graduat­ed, but she received her fair 

Defense 
continued from page 16 
tributed to our success this season. If we continue to play as a team we will go far.” 
In the Belles’ Sept. 4 victo­ry, senior Meghann Rose had 12 digs. Other valuable con-


Titans 
continued from page 16 
Belles defender deflected a shot off the foot of freshman Kristina Dolak and into the back of the net. 
The elements played a crucial role in the Titans next goal, when Bill scored her second of the game by using the wind at her back to guide to ball into the goal. The Titans’ command­ing 3-0 lead was too much for the Belles to overcome. 
The Titans added three more goals in the second half, includ­ing another by Bill, completing her hat trick. 
The Belles tallied four shots on goal in the second half. Perhaps their best opportunity to get on the scoreboard hap­pened when freshman Mollie Valencia unleashed a shot, but Titans’ goalie Alli Novak made a diving stop to preserve the shut out. 
Junior goalkeeper Kristen Nelson made eight saves to limit the damage as best she could. The defenders also con­tributed to the save total by adding three of their own in the first half, which gave the Belles a total of 11 for the game. 
It will not get any easier for the Belles, as their search for their first win takes them to Westerville, Ohio, this weekend to play in a tournament hosted by No. 7 Otterbein. They will play Otterbein Friday night, with a game against Ohio Northern to follow on Saturday.      

Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 

share of honors during her career, as well. In her junior season, she received Big East honors and was named a Big East Academic All-Star and an ITA Scholar Athlete. 
What made the two such a successful tandem, accord­ing to Louderback, was their chemistry. 
“They are both really calm under pressure,” Louderback said. “Kali is more vocal during the match while Kristy keeps her inten­sity within herself. They have those same personali­ties off the court as well.” 
The relationship they developed on the court grew into a friendship, which in turn made that unique chemistry even better. 
“They really enjoyed play­ing together and have become very close friends off the court,” Louderback said. 
This honor for two Notre Dame women’s tennis play­ers is just one more example 
of the program ’s rapid ascension into the premier teams in the nation. 
“We have had two [doubles pairs] make the ITA All Star team each of the past two years and it is a testament to the hard work our kids have put in and it shows that hard work pays off,” 


Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 


Wood 
continued from page 16 

Allen has been listed as the starter since the first depth chart came out last spring, but Wood only cracked the two-deep in the week leading up to the opener. The sopho­more sat out all of last year but looked explosive in his first action in an Irish uni­form. Wood only received one second-half carry, though, and Molnar said it might take some time for him to adjust to the college game. 
“When you’re playing out there for the first time, you tend to burn up a lot of nerv­ous energy before the game and during the game, and I think that was the case,” Molnar said. “I would expect him to be able to have more carries and more endurance as we go through the sea­son.” 
As Wood receives more car­ries, the level of competition between the two running backs will likely increase. But Molnar said Wood and Allen, along with the rest of the running backs, were always supportive of one another. 
“These guys get along great,” Molnar said. “We’re really starting to form the nucleus of a team where guys are really helping each other and rooting for each other.” 
Molnar said it was difficult to determine how the run­ning back situation would shake out in the future, but acknowledged that both would get a good amount of carries. 
“Really, we have a 1-A and a 1-B, and whoever’s that 1-A and 1B-is probably going to be a week-to-week proposi­tion,” Molnar said. 
Allen said that even if he was eventually supplanted by a player two years his junior, it wouldn’t bother him as long as the team played well. 
“At the end of the day, we ’re here to win,” Allen said. “It’s what we’re here to do, and me and Cierre under­stand that, no matter who is in the game. There will be times when we both want to get carries, we just have to remember that. Whatever helps us win.” 

Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

tributions in that win came from junior Danie Brink, who had 10 kills, a .692 hitting percentage and 26 digs. Senior Ellen Huelsmann and junior Lindsey Stuss each added six digs. 
After the Belles square-off with Albion Friday, they will face another conference opponent, Olivet (4-2) the following day. 
Growth will prove to be key to the Belles’ success this season. 
“Our team continues to improve every time they step out on the court,” Kuschel said. “That will be vital to our success in conference play this season.” 


Contact Katharine Mack at kmack1@nd.edu 




Thursday, September 9, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
HOPUC  

 
 
 
 
 

©2010 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
TESCA  

 
 
 
 
 

GURTIA  

 
 
 
 
 
 

BIBLE
Jumble
o:
http://www
.tyndale.com/jumble/ 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 


WURFOR  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


OF
A: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: HAVEN ELEGY HANDLE MALICE Yesterday’s 
Answer: What the apprentice did for the clockmaker — GAVE HIM A “HAND” 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 




Sports 

Thursday, September 9, 2010 page 16 
FOOTBALL 

Dual threat 

Senior Armando Allen and sophomore Cierre Wood provide spark for Irish offense 

DAN JACOBS/The Observer 

Senior Armando Allen breaks a tackle in Notre Dame’s game Saturday against Purdue. Allen rushed for 98 yards on 18 carries, averaging 5.3 yards per carry and leading the Irish rushing attack. 
Purdue Saturday; Allen most part.” at least 15 yards. After he 
By SAM WERNER 

rushed for 98 yards on 18 While Allen still received came out of the game, Allen 
Sports Writer 

carries, and Wood piled up the bulk of the carries, he busted loose for a 22-yard 63 yards on just seven said resting while Wood touchdown run. He said he 
Most teams would be touches. played allowed him to stay came on the field even more happy with one reliable run-“We knew we had two fresh late in the game. motivated because of Wood’s ning back in the backfield. really, really good running “It was great [getting a impressive performance. Notre Dame has the enviable backs,” offensive coordina-rest when Cierre was in],” “Without a doubt,” Allen “problem” of having two. tor Charley Molnar said. “We Allen said. “It’s nice that said, “Cierre is a great run-
Senior Armando Allen and left the hot back in and whichever one of us is in, we ning back, and we use each sophomore Cierre Wood when he got winded, we put still get great production.” other as motivation.” each averaged more than the next guy in and then he In Wood’s first four car-five yards per carry against became the hot guy for the ries, he had three rushes of see WOOD/page 14 


SMC SOCCER 

Saint Mary’s unable to contain Wesleyan 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
The Belles were unable to hold off the dynamic attack of No. 15 Illinois Wesleyan, losing 6-0 Wednesday night in Bloomington, Ill. 
It was not all bad for Saint Mary’s, which had reasonable scoring chances early but could not capitalize. From that point on, Illinois Wesleyan dominat­ed. 
The Titans first got on the board in the 19th minute with a goal from freshman Tillie Bill. Moments later, the Titans tal­lied another score when a 
see TITANS/page 14 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 





Irish duo named All-Stars 
Frilling and Krisik named to ITA Collegiate All-Star squad 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
After a stellar 2009 -10 season, junior Kristy Frilling and 2010 graduate Kali Krisik were recently named to the ITA Collegiate All-Star team as a doubles pair, recognition they earned for finishing last season as the nation’s No. 1 doubles pair. 
Frilling and Krisik finished last season 34-3 overall and 25-0 during the dual season. 
“It is a testament to the hard work our kids have put in, and it shows that hard work pays off,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. 
Although Louderback noted that Frilling and Krisik were slightly different players, he said that togeth­er, they made a great team. 
“They were a perfect fit with their game styles on the court,” he said. “[Krisik] was very consistent and made few errors but can still play a power game. [Frilling] is a big hitter who hits many winners but makes more errors.” 

Frilling, a junior from Sidney, Ohio, has had suc­cess at the collegiate level since her freshman year. She 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 



SMC set to commence MIAAplay 

By KATHERINE MACK 
Sports Writer 
The Belles will look for their second win of the sea­son in their first conference match this Friday against conference foe Albion at home. 
The Belles (1 -4) will be looking to bounce-back from a 1-4 loss against Elmhurst on Sept. 4, while the Britons (1-4) also look to rebound, coming off a 3-0 loss to their first conference opponent, Hope. 
“We have been playing very well together this season so far, which is great to see since we have so many new faces on our squad,” Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. “Albion will be tough just like last season. They run a fast offense and they get stronger every year. I think that if we come out strong and play like we have been, we will do well against them on Friday.” 
There are indeed some new faces on the Belles team this year, as four of the 13 players are new to the 2010 squad. 
Kuschel said defense will be the key to his team’s success. 
“Our strength definitely comes from our defense this year,” he said. “They have kept us in every match we have played so far; however, 
our whole team has con ­
see DEFENSE/page 14 


received All-America and Big East honors in her first season and participated in the NCAA tournament in both singles and doubles. Frilling and her 2009 dou­
see KRISIK/page 14 





