the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Handicap access examined 
Students, faculty, family members reflect on disability accommodations 
Senior receives Gates Cambridge Scholarship 
By CASEY KENNY 
News Writer 
Senior Ryan Lash was one 
of 29 American students recently awarded the Gates Cambridge Scholarship, enabling him to pursue a master’s degree next year at the Univ-ersity of Cambridge. 
Lash, a medieval studies and anthropology major, is the first Notre Dame student selected for this honor since the program was established by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in 2000. 
More than 800 U.S. stu ­dents applied for the highly competitive scholarship in 2009. According to the pro­gram’s Web site, scholarships are awarded to students “on the basis of a person’s intel­lectual ability, leadership capacity and desire to use their knowledge to contribute to society throughout the world by providing service to their communities and apply­ing their talents and knowl­edge to improve the lives of others.” 
These scholars must also have exceptional research 
see LASH/page 4 


Notre Dame alumni drawn to Peace Corps 


By JOSEPH McMAHON and 
SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writers 
When Mary and Rick Hurd traveled to campus for Junior Parents Weekend (JPW), they were looking forward to getting to know their daughter’s friends and their respective families. 
But during the weekend’s mass, Rick Hurd was separated from his daughter’s friends because he uses a wheelchair and needed handicap seating. 
“They didn’t anticipate that you might want to sit with a large group of friends and that seemed kind of odd because I thought the whole purpose of JPW was so you could meet your student’s friends and their parents,” Mary Hurd said. 
“[My daughter] cried and said, ‘this isn’t right,’” Mary Hurd said. “We were at a Mass and the homily and the priest were talking about Jesus would do. 
“I looked around and saw these handicapped people in these sections far away from the altar, and it was like you were kept at an arms’ length,” she said. “I’m not sure that is what Jesus would do.” 
Though Mary Hurd said her family’s experience with Notre Dame’s handicap accessibility has generally been satisfactory, JPW exposed glitches in the campus’ architecture and accommodations. 
Mary Hurd said the Basilica’s handicap seating could also be improved. 
“We have come to the Basilica. I think it was Easter we were there,” she said. “We couldn’t sit together because there wasn’t enough handicap seating.” 
With many buildings on cam­pus built around 100 years ago, some architecture does not lend itself to handicap accessibility. With newer dorms, however, the accommodations are much easier for those with physical disabilities. 
“The bookstore, the dining hall — we’ve been ale to eat with my daughter and her friends,” Mary Hurd said. “The football stadium access has been wonderful. The ushers are very accommodating.” 
Program Coordinator for the Office for Students with Disabilities Scott Howland said the University has worked to include handicap accessibility into plans for renovations and new buildings. 
“The University has begun to have a formal plan that will be implanted across the next few years,” Howland said. “Since I’ve been here since 1995, there has always been an attempt made by the University when they are doing renovations or projects to include accessibility issues in that.” 
see ACCESS/page 4 


By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
The 21 Notre Dame alum­ni currently serving in the Peace Corps have earned the University a place among the top middle-sized schools involved with the organization for the 10th consecutive year, according to the “Peace Corps Top Colleges 2010” list posted on the Corps’ Web site. 
“We have a huge interna­tional focus here on cam­pus,” said Anita Rees, asso­ciate director at the Career Center. “We try to tie that in with making the world a better place.” 
Rees also mentioned that a résumé that includes the Peace Corps will aid stu­dents applying for govern­ment positions as well as certain graduate schools. 
Many of the students who inquire about the Peace Corps have studied abroad, enjoyed the international perspective and “become impassioned about a sort of social issue or a vocation to make a difference there,” she said. 
“I think that the leader­ship experiences that stu­dents can take on here at Notre Dame and the breadth of classes offered on international concepts make them ready to build networks with people who are different than them,” Rees said. 
A Peace Corps recruiter at the Career Fair in the fall sparked senior Elizabeth Pinto’s interest in the pro­gram. She said the agency was “an excellent fit” for the volunteer work she was hoping to find after she graduates in the spring. 
“One of the most impor­tant things I think I have learned while at Notre Dame has been that we, as students, are given the priv­ilege of an outstanding edu­cation and tremendous opportunities for growth, 
see PEACE/page 4 




Bookstore opens study space 

By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students look­ing for a good place to study who find the Library too quiet, the Coleman-Morse Center too crowded and LaFortune too full of distractions now have a place to turn for a spacious but collaborative atmosphere 
— the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
The Bookstore recently opened a study space on its second floor, complete with tables, comfortable chairs and light background music. 
Director of Retail Operations 
see STUDY/page 4 

GRACE KENESEY/The Observer A student studies on the second foor of the Bookstore, which recently opened and will be available for use until the end of the year. 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Schmidt delivers final address page 3  ‘Our Family Wedding’ Review page 13  Men’s basketball page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Friday, March 19, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Cleverness or quota? 
Whether you are an underclassman just a year or two out of the college appli­cation process or an upperclassman entering “round two” for graduate school, we are all very aware that admis­sions is far more complex than GPAs, John Cameron ACTs and MCATs. Being a legacy or an News wire underrepresented 
editor 

minority can provide an advantage; many find such admissions policies unfair, and they tend to spark controversy. 
I’m not going to argue for eliminating these standards or “quotas.” Quite the contrary, I think Notre Dame and other universities need to add another. If uni­versities are going to give special treat­ment to certain groups based on race or family history, I think they should also give preference to the socioeconomically disadvantaged. 
What basis is there for policies like affirmative action? A lot of it has to do with the conception that, historically, minorities have been oppressed and dis­criminated against. The result, logically, is a disadvantage in today’s schools and workplaces. The idea of giving minorities an advantage in educational and career placement is to counteract this presumed disadvantage — to pull up those whose ancestors have been pushed down in the past. 
This policy is not the most effective, I believe. Regardless of how pervasive dis­crimination may or may not be in today’s society, I do not think that it is accurate to suggest that all minorities are truly disadvantaged academically simply for being minorities. What is true, however, is that minorities are more likely to be born into poverty. That is the real prob­lem. So why don’t we address it directly? 
When it comes to education, poverty certainly becomes relevant. It seems unfair that poor non-minorities be disre­garded when determining who is most needing of quality education at a selec­tive university. 
If admissions preference were expand­ed to all those coming from poverty, I believe it would more closely meet the proclaimed goals of such programs. It often appears that the politics and sensi­tivities that inevitably emerge when dis­cussing such issues may sometimes impede progression and improvement, but I do not believe it should be taboo to discuss ways to more effectively aid the truly disadvantaged in our society. 
While some may say that there should be no preferential treatment given in academic settings — and such sentiment may have some merit — it is undeniable that education in America is the key to social and economic class mobility. Regardless of the varying levels of influ­ence historical injustice has had on indi­viduals, it is difficult to argue against giv­ing people with nothing a chance at something. I believe Notre Dame and other selective colleges need to look far­ther than minorities and legacies, and need to expand preferential treatment in admissions to a wider variety of disad­vantaged applicants. I think it is undoubtable that a more socioeconomi­cally diverse class of 2014 or ’15 will help contribute to greater social justice in generations to come. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In a March 18 Observer article, Joseph Stanfiel was misidentified as the dean of the College of Arts and Letters. Joseph Stanfiel is an assistant dean. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH DO YOU PREFER, UNICORNS OR ZOMBIES? 





Ryan Lion  Jordan Matulis  Sarah Spieler  Anne Robles  
freshman Sorin  sophomore Howard  sophomore Pasquerilla West  freshman Pasquerilla East  
“Anything but darn sparkly vampires.”  “Unicorns. They’re pretty.”  “Neither. I don’t believe in mythical  “‘House of the Dead.’ Bang! Headshot.”  
creatures.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

TOM LA/The Observer Sophomore Jee Seun Choi puts up a poster for the 2010 Asian Film Festival and Conference on Thursday. The AFFC will be held Friday and Saturday and will fea­ture films and documentaries related to China, Korea and Taiwan. 
OFFBEAT 

Sleeping man wakes to find strange man in bed 
PITTSBURGH — Police said a man broke into a Pittsburgh home and climbed into bed with its owner, apparently because he was drunk and cold fol­lowing a rap concert. Homeowner Frank Fontana says he was in bed when the man climbed in about 5:30 Wednesday morning. Fontana says he asked whether it was a woman who has keys to his home — and he grabbed a baseball bat when a deep male voice answered, “No, it's not.” 
Police said Fontana kept the man at bay until police arrived but didn’t hit him with the bat. 
Police say the intruder told them he was looking for shelter after a Tuesday night concert by rapper Jay-Z at the Mellon Arena. 
The 33-year-old man faces a preliminary hearing on charges of criminal mis­chief and criminal trespass. 
Pair faces imprisonment in Dubai over kiss 
DUBAI — A British pair caught kissing in public in Dubai face up to a month in jail in the Gulf Arab emirate for indecency after an Emirati mother complained her child had seen their indiscretion. 
The pair, a British man liv­ing in Dubai and a female friend, were arrested in November on accusations of kissing and touching each other intimately in public and consuming alcohol, their lawyer said. They were ordered jailed for a month. 
The case is the third time in under two years in which Britons have hit the head­lines by falling foul of decen­cy laws in Dubai, a flashy Muslim emirate popular with sun-seeking Western tourists and expatriates. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight SATURDAY SUNDAY 

IN BRIEF 
The 2010 Asian Film Festival and Conference kicks off tonight at 6: 30 
p.m. with a screening of the film “The Unreliable People” wih and introduc­tion and post-screening Q&A with director Y. David Chung. The screening will take place in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center . Tickets are $3 for students and $6 for general admision and can be purchased by calling 631-2800. 
The Third Annual Arabic Culture Night will take place tonight at 7 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business. The event is free and open to all. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will be giving their Spring Concert tonight at 8 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for students, $5 for seniors, and $8 for general admis­sion. Tickets can be pur ­chased by calling 631-2800. 
The Irish dance ensemble Danu will be giving a per­formance Saturday night at 
7:30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $15 for students, $25 for seniors and $36 for general admission. Tickets can be purchased on performingarts.nd.edu or by calling 631-2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


Atlanta 70 / 44 Boston 63 / 43 Chicago 58 / 37 Denver 33 / 21 Houston 73 / 56 Los Angeles 76 / 53 Minneapolis 37 / 26 New York 71 / 47 Philadelphia 72 / 46 Phoenix 77 / 56 Seattle 63 / 41 St. Louis 67 / 45 Tampa 72 / 51 Washington 72 / 49 
Friday, March 19, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Schmidt gives final address 
Activist lectures on low-wage workers 
barely make ends meet,” 
By BRITTANY VANSNEPSON 
Bobo said. 
News Writer 
Bobo suggested one 
small, yet significant, way 
Social justice activist of changing injustices to Kim Bobo discussed the low -wage workers is by injustices leaving commonly cash tips. faced by low-“ T i p 
wage work -“It’s just not enough to stealing is ers in a lec -a pretty 
barely make ends
ture titled common
meet.” 
“Making a way of Diff erence employers for Low Wage steali ng
Kim Bobo 
Workers” from work-
social justice activist
Thursday at ers, ” said the Vander Bobo. Vennet However, Theatre. said the 
Bobo, executive director best change can only and founder of Interfaith come in the form of Worker Justice, focused young adults getting more on addressing the issues active in the cause to 
of benefits, help low ­fair pay, wage equal treat -workers. ment and “It ’s not 
healthy work-“These problems are the elders ing condi -not somewhere else, and it’s not tions for low-the faculty 
they’re here.” 
wage work -… it ’s the ers. younger “These Kim Bobo leaders, ” 
problems are social justice activist she said. not some -The where else, younger they’re here,” genera-Bobo said . tions “We ’ve got to stop the should involve their bleeding of wages in soci-friends and family mem­ety … to dramatically bers in the cause, as well change things.” as apply for internships 
Bobo said wage theft is within the community an activity where employ-that help to address ers illegally underpay issues of low wage work-workers for the work they ers. have already completed. “We just have to love She said this activity is our neighbor as we do left largely unreported ourselves,” Bobo said. and unnoticed throughout the nation. Contact Brittany VanSnepson 
“It’s just not enough to at bvansn01@saintmarys.edu 
By SCOTT ENGLERT 
News Writer 
Student body president Grant Schmidt reflected on his term as president and gave advice for the future administration in his final State of the Student Union address, delivered at the Student Senate meeting Thursday. 
Schmidt said he worked to make student government more accessible and more in tune to the student body’s needs. 
“Since the beginning of the year, [we] have focused on making stu­dent government the go-to group of students when our fellow stu­dents or our administration has a question, an idea or a concern,” Schmidt said. “We have pushed to make sure that students are con­sulted before big decisions are made.” 
In addition to serving the needs of the student body, Schmidt also emphasized the work that student government has done in coopera­tion with the administration. The administration is essential in mak­ing the University what it is today, Schmidt said. 
“This University would not be where it is today without the lead­ership of … the numerous admin­istrators who work tirelessly on a day-to-day basis,” Schmidt said. 
But Schmidt said there is often a right and wrong way to work with the administration. He said he hopes next year’s student govern­ment will continue to operate in the correct manner. 
“Many student governments across the country play the ‘us against the man’ card. We don’t do that here at Notre Dame, and I would advise any other future stu­dent government leaders to shy away from this approach as well,” Schmidt said. “We have conversa­tions, negotiations, compromises, a sense of understanding.” 
It has been through this approach that the student body has created “tangible results,” Schmidt said. But the process was not easy, he said. 
“Trust me when I say I have pushed some buttons … Transpo did not come easily. Our pressure with the pep rallies did not come easily. The pressure regarding textbook prices did not come easi­ly, along with the support of the gay and lesbian students,” Schmidt said. 
Despite all of these accomplish­ments, Schmidt said his adminis­tration still has work left to do before its tenure ends April 1. 
“Currently, we are finishing up our recommendations for the revi­sions to du Lac. These are extremely important as they will affect students on a day-to-day basis,” Schmidt said. 
After thanking the members of his administration, Schmidt offered his advice to student body president-elect Catherine Soler and student body vice president-elect Andrew Bell. 
“Pursue what you know is right. You’re the role models for the University,” Schmidt said. “Don’t hold back … Do something start­ing on April 1, 2010 until March 31, 2011.” 
In a final reflection, Schmidt spoke to the Student Senate about his time as student body presi­dent. 
“Like I said before, this job has been easy and a pleasure because of you. Thank you for what you do. Thank you for making this a fun experience,” he said. “Thank you for making Notre Dame one heck of a place to be for four years. Go Irish.” 
Contact Scott Englert at senglert@nd.edu 
STUDENT SENATE 

Grouprequestsadditionofstudentrep. 
Observer Staff Report 
In addition to hearing student body president Grant Schmidt’s final State of the Student Union address, Student Senate discussed and unanimously passed a resolu­tion during its Thursday night meeting. 
The resolution called for the addition of a student leader in the decision process of the Commencement speaker. University Affairs chair Jeff Lakusta proposed the resolution. 
Lakusta said the student would be present on the committee offer the student body’s opinion. 
“So there can be a form of input, but it’s not the hammer or any­thing,” Lakusta said. 
Student body vice president Cynthia Weber also said the reso­lution was important because Commencement is an integral part of the graduation cere­monies. 
“Especially for the seniors, it’s the center of Commencement,” Weber said. “It becomes some­thing that represents the entire University.” 

Saint Mary’s club hosts renowned philosopher 
Notre Dame professor Alasdair MacIntyre argues individuals can be ‘good’ in many ways 
happiness,” MacIntyre said. whether or not sources that According to MacIntyre, as a result,” he said. 
By ALICIA SMITH 

“Sometimes people who are in make humans happy exist. humans can be good when they He discussed how humans 
News Writer 

love with us promise to make us “It may be the case that with understand how to integrate must be sympathetic, vulnera­happy. Politicians often promise which we are pleased, delighted other aspects of goodness into ble, truthful, trustful and have 
Goodness and happiness are to make us happy.” or satisfied is something that their lives. self-knowledge in order to be a in conflict, Alasdair MacIntyre, MacIntyre defined which exists in the real world,” “Human beings, that is to say, good person. With these traits, the John A. O’Brien senior terms should be used when MacIntyre said. can be good in a wide variety of he said humans will find conflict research professor of philoso-speaking about what it means to MacIntyre also discussed how ways,” he said. “And we do have existing between happiness and phy at Notre Dame, said be happy. to interpret what happiness criteria for how to be a good goodness. Thursday. “The concept that I’m going to means. friend, or being good at tennis, “It therefore follows that in a 
MacIntyre visited Saint Mary’s talk about is the concept that “When people tell us that or being a good worker or being characteristic human life … College as a guest lecturer on gets expressed when someone they’re happy with their lives, a good sibling, the list goes on.” people will have good reason to the invitation of the Philosophy tells you that they’re happy, it’s very much a matter of what MacIntyre then explained that be unhappy a great deal of the Club. meaning that they feel good they think the range of possible goodness and happiness can time,” MacIntyre said. “A good 
In a lecture titled “Happiness about themselves,” he said. alternatives are for better,” conflict. life would be one in which both and Goodness,” MacIntyre “They feel good about their MacIntyre said. “Caring about something or happiness and unhappiness find spoke about the ways in which lives.” MacIntyre explained the lan-caring about somebody means a place, the right place.” humans can live a happy life After defining which phrases guage used when judgments are that when things go wrong for and a good life. can be used to describe happi-made about the ideas of good that person, you feel badly Contact Alicia Smith at 
“People constantly offer us ness, MacIntyre discussed and bad. about it and you act differently asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 19, 2010 
Kelliher said Howland as volunteers, surpassing any “My ultimate goal in all of helped arrange her class other Catholic college, a this was to create opportuni-

Peace Access 

schedule to accommodate her “The ethos of social justice oped regions,” she said. 
University press release said. ties for people in underdevel­disability. 
continued from page 1 
continued from page 1 

“I’m not really good at lan­but it is not simply for us,” is one thing that sets that up dents approach career coun­
within the Catholic tradition When undergraduate stu­
guages. You learn through Pinto said. very well,” Rees said. selors about the Peace Corps, 
Howland said his office does reading and writing [in for-Pinto said she hopes to Second-year graduate stu-Rees said they should ques­
not focus on accessibility eign language classes] and apply her degree in Arabic to dent Mirjam Wit said that the tion whether or not they are 
issues, but will sometimes that’s my weakness area,” she a location in the Middle East her two years in Panama as a cut out for the unique volun­
receive calls and redirect said. “He worked with me to or North Africa. Peace Corps volunteer were teer experience offered by 
them to the appropriate get into a sign language class “We must take that educa-the reason behind her deci-the agency. 
departments. to substitute for my language tion and all of our experi-sion to come to Notre Dame “Students who are now 
Specifically, Howland deals classes. ences over these four years for her Masters in Business considering going into the 
with students who have learn-“There are so many oppor­and use them to make the Administration. Peace Corps have some 
ing disabilities and provides tunities that Notre Dame world a better place in some An undergraduate degree tremendous examples in 
them with services to assist offers so I try to take advan­way or form,” she said. from Boston College and a alumni who have gone before 
them in learning. tage of all of them.” Notre Dame’s history with plan to become a lobbyist for them,” Rees said. “We can 
“My responsibility and my Kelliher said she knows the Peace Corps began when United States-Latin American find these alumni to speak 
job in the office is to work other students with both the agency was founded in relations brought Wit to the with our students on a one-
with students directly for pri-learning and physical disabili­1961 and trained some of its Peace Corps, but her plans to-one level about the experi­
marily academic accommoda-ties, and has noticed a few first volunteers on the changed when the lack of ence.” 
tions. I think we do a pretty accessibility issues on campus. University’s campus. Since jobs and funding in Panama 
good job of meeting those “Sometimes the handicap then, over 800 Notre Dame led her to pursue a graduate Contact Megan Doyle at 
needs,” he said. “[With] a access doors don’t work on alumni have joined the Corps degree in business. mdoyle11@nd.edu 
need for a residence hall certain buildings or the access 
accommodations or adapta-doors are not the most con­
tions, I work with housing to venient doors or the doors 
do that so I think that’s some-most used,” she said. 

cated ways that belie his age Lash is quick to credit 
thing that’s addressed and “I’m in Breen Phillips Hall and experience, ” said University advisors for their 
needs are met.” and I broke my ankle last 
Lash 

Thomas Noble, professor and assistance in the application 
Howland said he works with year. I was only on crutches continued from page 1 chair of the History process. 
around 225 students with for a while [but] there are Department and former “My faculty advisors were 
learning disabilities, who steps everywhere,” Kelliher skills and knowledge of how director of Notre Dame’s very helpful in encouraging 
seem to be satisfied with their said. “I don’t think that’s the their research can be applied Medieval Institute, in a press me to think about what I real-
services, according to surveys fault of Notre Dame. They are to global challenges. release. “He combines intelli-ly wanted to do,” he said. 
his office has conducted. old buildings. The newer Lash said he is excited gence, a taste for hard work “They supported me and dis-
Sophomore Katelyn Kelliher, buildings can accommodate about the opportunity to pur-and a disinterested love of suaded me from thinking the 
a student with dyslexia, said people.” sue a master’s degree in the learning and grace.” scholarship was out of 
she has been pleased with the Mary Hurd said she was sat-Department of Anglo-Saxon, According to the press reach.” 
services the University offers isfied with accessibility in her Norse and Celtic. release, Lash has fully uti-Lash is looking forward to 
to accommodate her disability. daughter’s dorm. “The interdisciplinary pro-lized Notre Dame’s resources utilizing the many resources 
“When I came here they “I can’t say we’ve had any gram gives me the opportuni-that support undergraduate of the renowned University of 
offered me more services than access issues when [my ty to continue studying what I research, field and interna-Cambridge and hopes his 
I could ever imagine. I’d get daughter] was in Pangborn. am interested in without hav-tional study. His projects work will contribute to a bet-
extra times on my exams, Pangborn has an elevator,” ing to pick only one particu-include archaeological field-ter appreciation of the rele­
which is great. I get my books she said. lar aspect of my interests,” work at Mesa Verde National vance and influence of repre­
on tape which helps a lot,” she Overall, Kelliher said she Lash said. “I will study the Park in Colorado, travel in sentations of history. 
said. feels people are pleased with language, history and arche-Great Britain and Ireland for “I admit that medieval stud-
Someone also takes notes the University’s accommoda­ology of medieval Britain and a research paper on medieval ies can’t help humanity in the 
for Kelliher in all of her class-tions for physical and learning Scandinavia.” castle architecture in elite same way that medical or sci-
es, which allows her to focus disabilities. Lash was encouraged to identity formation, study of entific research might,” he 
on the information being pre-“In the general sense when apply for the highly selective medieval history, literature said. “But my work has rele­
sented, she said. it comes up, most people seem scholarship by several faculty and archeology in Notre vancy and will, I hope, con­
“I am really good with audi-satisfied,” she said. members because of his Dame’s Oxford program, as tribute by allowing us to bet­
tory learning,” she said. “I sit impressive research skills well as an upcoming research ter appreciate the challenges, 
in class and I absorb info. I Contact Joseph McMahon at and academic success. project at Bective Abbey in complexities and conse ­
can almost repeat back to you jmcmaho6@nd.edu and Sarah “Ryan has blended his Ireland. As a result of these quences of public representa­
the entire class.” Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu broad interests in the projects, he has also co-pre-tions of the past.” medieval world with specific sented research papers at interests in literature and academic conferences in sev-Contact Casey Kenny at material culture in sophisti-eral countries. ckenny@nd.edu 
Study 
continued from page 1 
Keith Kirkpatrick said he hopes more students will begin taking advantage of this new study space. 
“So far we’re seeing that it’s being used — not as much as we want it to be used, but that will probably increase,” he said. “This area on the second floor has a great view — a two story window where you can see the Dome.” 
The study space opened just before spring break, but Kirkpatrick said the decision to implement the space was made at the end of September. 
A senior class business project was to conduct a focus group dealing with the integration of the café and the Bookstore, as well as ways to increase student traffic. 
“Feedback from the focus group was basically that they wanted [part of] the second floor cleaned up with desks and made it into a study area,” Kirkpatrick said. 
Kirkpatrick said the Bookstore is able to be more creative with the store layout in the spring semester, when the rush of foot­ball season has ended. In the fall, the textbook department is col­lapsed and used for a line queue, but in the spring, that space can be consolidated for other dis­plays. 
“[Study space] is something we didn’t think about before because for us not having space allocated to sell stuff hurts the [business],” Kirkpatrick said. “But we got creative and made the space so we’re not really los­ing anything.” 
School supplies, which were previously situated toward the back of the second floor, have been moved adjacent to the study space so that all of the materials students might need are conveniently located. 
“One of the other initiatives we have is to reach out to cam­pus to create a gathering space,” Kirkpatrick said. “We have a number of departments on cam­pus that actually hold class here 
— it’s almost on a weekly basis that they come downstairs … I hope they will use the upstairs also.” 
Kirkpatrick said the Bookstore decided to make the space slight­ly bigger when they began talk­ing to the Registrar’s Office, who needed additional space for graduation projects. The study space will be used as a sort of graduation headquarters this May. Cap and gown distribution, guest ticket pickups and senior surveys distribution will take place there on May 12 and 13. 
Kirkpatrick said he hopes stu­dent traffic will continue to increase as word about the addi­tional study space moves through campus. 
“We get a good number of stu­dents [studying in the Bookstore] right now, especially in the café area downstairs. The chairs are comfortable, it’s fairly relaxed, fairly quiet, and it’s open — our hours of operation are 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. which is a pretty good stretch of time,” he said. 
The study space will only last until the end of June, when the bookstore will begin to prepare for the 2010 football season. 
“We’re going to have it up through finals, but it will proba­bly come down by mid-summer because we’re going to need to reset the floor get ready for fall,” Kirkpatrick said. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 




World & Nation 
Friday, March 19 , 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Export ban on bluefin tuna rejected 
DOHA, Qatar — Fishing nations won a vic­tory over environmentalists Thursday when a U.S.-backed proposal to ban export of the Atlantic bluefin tuna was overwhelmingly rejected at a U.N. wildlife meeting. 
Japan won over scores of poorer nations with a campaign that played on fears that a ban would devastate their economies. Tokyo also raised doubts that such a radical move was scientifically sound. 
In another blow to conservationists, a pro­posal at the meeting to ban the international sale of polar bear skins failed to pass. 
Kipnapped Brit returns from Pakistan 
LONDON — A 5-year-old British boy who was kidnapped and held in Pakistan for two weeks arrived safely back in Britain on Thursday. 
Sahil Saeed, who is of Pakistani origin, was snatched March 4 from his grandparents’ house in central Pakistan, where he was vaca­tioning. He was released unharmed Tuesday, and on Thursday he flew back to Manchester, northern England, where he lives with his par­ents. 
“Sahil is doing well, is in good spirits,” the boy’s father, Raja Naqqash Saeeda, said earlier in Islamabad after he was reunited with his son. 
The case has drawn in investigators from four countries — Britain, France, Spain and Pakistan. The first calls for ransom were made from Spain, authorities say, and the boy’s family was instructed to travel to Paris to deliver the payment. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

South Carolina gov. agrees to fines 
COLUMBIA, S.C. — South Carolina Gov. Mark Sanford has agreed to pay $74,000 in fines to resolve dozens of charges that he vio­lated state ethics laws with his campaign spending and travel, including a taxpayer-funded rendezvous with his Argentine mis­tress, the State Ethics Commission said Thursday. 
The commission brought the 37 civil charges against the Republican last year. Sanford, who is term-limited and will leave office in January, still could face criminal charges. 
Sanford said in a statement he thinks he would have been vindicated if the commission had heard the case, but didn’t want to contin­ue what he called “an endless media circus.” 
Medical marijuana attracts criminals 
SAN FRANCISCO — Patients, growers and clinics in some of the 14 states that allow med­ical marijuana are increasingly falling victim to robberies, home invasions, shootings and even murders at the hands of pot thieves. 
There have been dozens of cases in recent months alone. The issue received more atten­tion this week after a prominent medical mari­juana activist in Seattle nearly killed a robber in a shootout — the eighth time thieves had targeted his pot-growing operation. 
Critics say the heists and holdups prove that marijuana and crime are inseparable, though marijuana advocates contend that further legalization is the answer. News of crimes related to medical marijuana comes at an awkward time for California and Washington advocates who are pushing to pass ballot measures to allow all adults, not just the seri­ously ill, to possess the drug. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Women accused of setting fire to dogs 
FRANKLIN, Ind. — A central Indiana woman faces two felony counts of animal cruelty after she allegedly doused her two pet dogs with gaso­line and set them on fire. 
Court documents state that 36-year-old Kathrine Brotherton of Franklin told police she was trying to kill her dogs March 9 because they had bit her. 
She was being held Thursday in the Johnson County Jail. 
Brotherton allegedly put her 5-year-old dog and 6-month-old puppy in a plastic drum, poured gas on them and then used lighter to set them on fire outside her rural Johnson County home. 
THE NETHERLANDS 
Writer remembers Anne Frank 
Holocaust survivor stands by her memory of Anne Frank despite skeptism of facts 
Associated Press 

AMSTERDAM — A Holocaust survivor who says she met Anne Frank in a Nazi concentration camp is standing by her story in the face of skepticism from historians, filmmakers and a childhood friend of the diarist. 
Berthe Meijer, 71, claims in a memoir to be published in Dutch this month that while she was in Bergen Belsen as a 6-year-old, she remembers the severely ill Frank trying to cheer up some of the children at the camp by telling them fairy tales. 
“On its face, it seems too good to be true,” said David Barnouw of the Netherlands Institute for War Documentation, who has studied Frank for three decades and edited the definitive scholarly publica­tion of her diary. 
He said his primary objec­tions to Meijer’s story are that Anne would probably have been too weak from hunger and illness to tell stories shortly before her death in March 1945, and it would be an amazing coin­cidence that Meijer would have a memory about someone who only became well known many years later. 
“But you never know,” he said. “I don’t dare to judge.” 
Anne Frank became one of the most prominent vic­tims of the Holocaust when the diary she kept for two years while in hiding from the Nazis in Amsterdam was found after the war and published. Frank died in a 1945 typhus epidemic at Bergen Belsen, but the exact date is unknown. 
Meijer on Thursday rejected criticism from Hannah Pick-Goslar, a friend of Anne Frank’s who saw her at Bergen Belsen and said she was in no con­dition to tell stories; and from Willy Lindwer, a film­maker who said he did not include Meijer in his Emmy award winning 1988 docu­mentary about Anne Frank because her testimony was too vague. 

“How do they think they can look into my memory?” Meijer said in a telephone interview. 
Meijer’s memoir, “Life After Anne Frank,” focuses on how the early trauma of the camp affected Meijer’s later life, and “what war does to a human life.” It describes the alleged meet­ing with Frank in an early chapter. 
“I make it clear in my book, some things are vague, some things are crystal clear,” she said. “For me, the memories are paired with the emotions that went with them.” 
She said Frank was very ill, but still mustered the strength to tell short fairy tales while lying in the camp barracks. Meijer said she remembers it because the stories gave her a feel­ing of escape from the hor­ror that surrounded her. 
A spokeswoman for pub­lisher De Bezige Bij said the house stands behind Meijer “100 percent.” 
Suzanne Holtzer said the Bezige Bij is discussing sell­ing publishing rights with publishers in multiple coun­tries, including the United States. 
The Anne Frank House Museum says its historians have previously interviewed Meijer and have no reason to doubt her truthfulness — but that her story is unveri­fiable. 
Records from Yad Vashem, the Israeli Holocaust memorial author­ity, show that Meijer was an inmate of Bergen Belsen for 13 months until it was liber­ated in April 1945. 
They also show the Meijer family lived on Amsterdam’s Niersstraat, the same street where Anne attended a Montessori elementary school from 1934 to 1941. Meijer says the two families were friendly acquaintanc­es. 
Psychologists say it’s con­ceivable that if Meijer knew Frank before the war, and if she met her again in Bergen Belsen, she could form a lasting memory about it, even at a young age. 
Around 140,000 Jews lived in the Netherlands before the 1940-45 Nazi occupation. Of those, 107,000 were deported to Germany and only 5,200 survived. 

Obama effigy hung in Rhode Island school 
Associated Press 

CENTRAL FALLS, R.I. — A teacher at a failing school where he and all his colleagues are being fired hung an effigy of President Barack Obama in his classroom, apparently in reac­tion to Obama’s support of extreme measures to ensure accountability in schools. 
The teachers union on Thursday condemned the effigy, discovered Monday in the teacher’s third-floor classroom at Central Falls High School, saying it was wrong and can­not be condoned under any circum­stances. 
The effigy was found in the teacher’s classroom by Superintendent Frances Gallo, Rhode Island Department of Education spokeswoman Nicole Shaffer told The Associated Press. Shaffer said the department would not have any further comment. 
Gallo told the AP on Thursday evening that the foot-tall Obama doll that she saw Monday was hung from its feet from a white board and was holding a sign that said, “Fire Central Falls teachers.” 
“I was deeply saddened,” Gallo said. “It’s a horrific — a startling — kind of picture when you walk in and see that.” 
She said that the teacher had been issued a “strong letter of reprimand” and that she considered it an inter­nal matter. 
Obama had called the firings in Central Falls an example of holding failing schools accountable. The White House did not have any imme­diate comment Thursday. U.S. Secret Service spokesman Malcolm Wiley said the agency was aware of the doll but declined to comment fur­ther. 
The president of the Central Falls Teachers Union, Jane Sessums, said in a written statement that the teacher, whose name wasn’t dis­closed, hung the doll “as part of what he described as a lesson plan.” 

page 6 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Friday, March 19, 2010 
Private drama plagues Oscar-winner Bullock 

Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — Sandra Bullock is on a career high. America’s Sweetheart and “Miss Congeniality” was repeatedly anointed as Hollywood royalty this year, sweeping awards season and capping it off with an Oscar for her role as a devoted mom in “The Blind Side.” 
But as this Tinseltown fairy­tale played out on camera, real-life drama may have been brewing behind the scenes. 
With worldwide attention on the brand-new Oscar winner 
— who first captured hearts as a brave bus passenger in 1994’s “Speed” and went on to amass more than two dozen movie credits — Bullock is being dogged by tabloid reports of problems with her husband of nearly five years. 
Internet rumors surfaced Wednesday that the 45-year­old actress’ husband, celebrity motorcycle builder and reality-TV star Jesse James, had been unfaithful while she was mak­ing her Oscar-winning film. Bullock subsequently canceled a planned appearance next week at the London premiere of “The Blind Side,” citing “unforeseen personal rea­sons.” 
On Thursday, James apolo­gized to his wife and three children from previous rela­tionships through a statement issued to People magazine and later obtained by The Associated Press. 
“It’s because of my poor judgment that I deserve every­thing bad that is coming my way,” he said. “This has caused my wife and kids pain and embarrassment beyond comprehension and I am extremely saddened to have brought this on them.” 
He added that “the vast majority of the allegations reported are untrue and unfounded,” but offered no other details, saying, “Beyond that, I will not dignify these private matters with any fur­ther public comment.” 
Representatives for Bullock did not respond to calls and e­mails seeking comment Thursday. A receptionist at James’ motorcycle shop, West Coast Choppers in Long Beach, Calif., said James was not expected at the shop on Thursday. Later in the day, James returned home to the couple’s oceanfront home in nearby Huntington Beach without speaking to assembled journalists. 
Throughout Hollywood’s lengthy award season, there was no indication of domestic strife as the couple appeared happily arm-in-arm while Bullock racked up the acco­lades. 
She called her husband “sexy” as she accepted her Screen Actor’s Guild award. Backstage, he held her purse as she spoke to reporters. 
At the Golden Globes, Bullock told James from the stage, her voice cracking with emotion: “There’s no surprise that my work got better when I met you. Because I never knew what it felt like for someone to have my back.” 
Things were different at the Academy Awards. 
Bullock did not thank her husband, who appeared teary-eyed on camera as she accept­ed her award. Instead she thanked mothers and parents everywhere — including a poignant tribute to her own mother — along with her fel­low nominees and “everyone who’s shown me kindness when it wasn’t fashionable.” 
Still, Bullock and James, 40, walked hand-in-hand down Oscar’s red carpet, celebrated together at the parties after­ward and were photographed outside a Long Beach burger joint the next day. 
The actress and the “Monster Garage” star met in 2003 and married in 2005. Initially deemed an odd match by some — she’s the girl next door, he’s a tattooed bad-boy 
— the couple stayed blissfully out of the public eye while con­tinuing their individual suc­cesses. 
Bullock had dated actors, including Matthew McConaughey and Ryan Gosling, and was engaged to Tate Donovan, but her mar­riage to James is her first. James had been married twice before and is in an ongoing dispute with his most recent ex-wife over custody of their 5­year-old daughter, Sunny. 
Bullock has said she loves James’ children as though they were her own and that the eld­est, Chandler, selected her regal Oscar gown. 
While winning an Academy Award can be a boon to actors’ careers, it's not always great for their personal lives. Sean Penn won the best-actor Oscar last year for “Milk” and split with his wife, Robin Wright Penn, a few months later. (He didn’t thank her in his speech, either.) Last year’s best-actress winner, Kate Winslet, separat­ed from her husband, director Sam Mendes, earlier this week. 
Bodyofchildfoundonbeach 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE —A child’s body found Thursday on an island beach in Puget Sound is that of an 8-year-old boy who van­ished last weekend with his mother, a Pierce County sher-iff's spokesman said. 
Positive identification was based on Azriel Carver’s cloth­ing, mohawk haircut and “looking at pictures of him,” spokesman Ed Troyer said. 
The Pierce County medical examiner’s office plans an autopsy Friday to determine cause of death. 
The body was found on Fox Island, southwest of Tacoma. 
No sign was found Thursday of the boy’s mother, Shantina “Kat” Smiley, 29, of Silverdale, who disappeared with him on Saturday night. Troyer said the beach was searched about 500 yards in each direction from the boy's body. Divers on a boat searched as well and a Coast Guard helicopter and sheriff's office plane flew over­head. 
That search may resume Friday, depending on weather, he said. 
Smiley’s abandoned minivan, partially submerged with its doors open, was found Sunday on a remote Olympia-area beach about 12 miles south of Fox Island. 
A wallet containing her dri­ver’s license, some cash and credit cards was found in the van, but neither she nor her son was anywhere in sight. 
Jay Carver, Azriel’s father who flew here from Buffalo, N.Y., this week, went to the beach where the boy was found. Troyer said the father was not involved in identifying the body. 
“You really don’t know what you have in your life until they’re gone,” Carver told KING-TV. “It's a sad turn of events.” 
Two mismatched shoes, a partially full and corked wine bottle, an inhaler and an orange ball have washed ashore since the van was found. 
Thurston County sheriff’s Lt. Chris Mealy said the items apparently belonged to the boy or his mother. 
Smiley was heading from her home in Silverdale to her stepfather’s house in south­west Washington when she and her son disappeared Saturday night. Silverdale is about 16 miles west of Seattle, across Puget Sound. 
Besides searching the area, investigators looked at phone records and talked to people who know Smiley and her son or may have met her Saturday night as she drove through the back roads of Washington state. Her fiance, Robb Simmons, told authorities she was a recovering alcoholic who had relapsed last week. 
“We are grieving the loss of Azriel, and praying for Shantina. We are all severely hurting. We are getting the family together so we can grieve together, and so we can have some sort of peace right now,” Simmons told the televi­sion station late Thursday. 
He told The Associated Press he had no comment. 
Mealy said there was no indication that a crime took place inside Smiley’s 2005 Dodge Caravan. 


The Observer 

Business
Friday, March 19, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Domain ‘Sex.com’ too hot to sell 
NEW YORK — The suitors for Sex.com have been put off for now. 
An auction for the much-sought-after domain name was canceled Wednesday after three creditors filed a petition forcing the owner into bankruptcy. 
Mike Mann, an investor with all three credi­tors, said the petition was filed to stop the auc­tion. According to the petition, the creditors have a combined $10.1 million claim. 
Selling the domain name at an auction was not going to enhance its value, Mann said. 
“It’s gone way up in value,” he said. “It’s the most valuable domain in the world. They were throwing away the world’s most valuable domain asset.” 
Escom LLC paid a reported $12 million to $14 million for the domain name in 2006, but the company was unable to repay the debt. The lender ordered the foreclosure sale. 
The opening bid: $1 million. 

Richard Maltz, vice president of David R. Maltz & Co. Inc., which was handling the auc­tion, said there was “considerable interest” in the domain name sale. 
Gas prices rise to highest since 2008 
Motorists are paying the highest prices for gas since October 2008. Retail gasoline prices rose on Thursday on an expected increase in demand and as more expensive spring and summer blends of gasoline make their way to the pumps. 
The nationwide average hit $2.799 per gal­lon, a penny higher than Wednesday, accord­ing to AAA, Wright Express and Oil Price Information Service. 
Prices have now jumped 18.9 cents in the past month and are 87.9 cents higher than year-ago levels. Back on Oct. 23, 2008 prices averaged $2.8215 per gallon. 
The Energy Department and many industry experts expect prices to top $3 this spring. 
Gasoline prices tend to move higher in the spring as more drivers hit the road and refin­ers shut down units for maintenance, as they prepare to make more expensive summer blends of gasoline with fewer smog-causing emissions. 
Wholesale gasoline prices also are at their highest point since October 2008. 
Democrats sweeten health care bill 
Supporters add new incentives to their health care plans; showdown set for Sunday 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — Historic health care change in the balance, Democrats plowed fresh billions into insurance subsidies for consumers on Thursday and added a $250 rebate for seniors facing high prescription drugs, last-minute sweeteners to sweeping $940 billion legis­lation headed for a climactic weekend vote. 
President Barack Obama scuttled an Asian trip in favor of last-minute lobby­ing at the White House on his signature issue, playing host to a procession of wavering Democrats seek­ing favors. 
“It will make history and we will make progress by passing this legislation,” predicted House Speaker Nancy Pelosi as Democrats unveiled final alterations to a bill — 16 tumultuous months in the making — meant to expand health care to 32 million unin­sured, bar the insurance industry from denying cov­erage on the basis of pre­existing medical conditions, and trim federal deficits by an estimated $138 billion over the next decade. 
The health care portions of the bill would affect early every American and remake one-sixth of the national economy. upper income wage earners. sion to put off a scheduled quickly followed, citing 
Beginning in 2014, most “The American people are Asian trip until later in the improved deficit cuts. Americans would be saying, ‘Stop’ and they’re year was a confession that That made three conver­required for the first time to screaming at the top of their the votes were not yet sions in recent days, follow-purchase insurance, and lungs,” said House GOP secured. ing liberal Rep. Dennis face penalties if they Leader John Boehner of Support for the legislation Kucinich of Ohio, with the refused. Millions of families Ohio. Citing reports that appeared to be growing. White House and congres­with incomes up to $88,000 Obama had told members of Rep. Bart Gordon of sional leaders in search of a year would receive gov-the Hispanic caucus that his Tennessee, a moderate more. ernment help to defray their presidency depends on the Democrat who is retiring at In Washington’s time-hon­costs. Large businesses bill’s passage, he added, the end of the year, ored tradition, the conversa­would face fines if they did “I’m sorry, Mr. President, announced he would vote in tions with the president not offer good-quality cover-this isn’t about you.” favor of the bill after oppos-ranged widely. Rep. Luis age to their workers. It was, though, at least in ing an earlier version. He Gutierrez of Illinois said he 
As Democrats trumpeted part, and has been ever did so as Democratic lead-agreed to vote for the health their bill, particularly its since last summer, when ers included in their revi-care overhaul on the under-potential impact on the Sen. Jim DeMint, R-S.C., sions a provision worth an standing that Obama and deficit, Republicans predicted the bill’s defeat estimated $99 million over congressional Democrats attacked it relentlessly as a would mark Obama’s two years in higher would begin attempts quick-government takeover of the Waterloo. Medicaid payments to ly to pass comprehensive health care industry Democrats set a Sunday Tennessee hospitals that immigration legislation. financed by ever higher showdown in the House, treat large numbers of unin-Within hours, Senate Medicare cuts and tax and while Pelosi and others sured. Democrats unveiled a bill, increases, including a new expressed confidence about Rep. Betsy Markey, a first-and the president praised it Medicare payroll tax on the outcome, Obama’s deci-termer from Colorado, in a written statement. 


UNITED NATIONS 
Agents uncover U.N. corruption case 
Associated Press 

UNITED NATIONS — The deal looked simple enough: U.S. military equipment suppliers bribed an African defense minister’s salesmen to secure part of a $15 million gig to outfit a presidential guard. 
But the salesmen were actually FBI agents. And the operation resulted in what U.S. authorities in January called their biggest foreign bribery sting to date, netting 16 indictments and 22 arrests of small arms and military equipment mak­ers. 
At the center of the U.S. case is Richard Bistrong, a former Florida executive who first surfaced in a series of cases of bribes and bid-rigging for multimillion-dollar U.N. peacekeeping contracts. The trail to Bistrong is laid out in U.N docu­ments, e-mails and legal filings reviewed by The Associated Press. 
The story of Bistrong and the mil­itary equipment suppliers shows how vulnerable the United Nations is to corruption in how the billions of dollars a year that it oversees are spent. It also raises questions about how well that spending will be monitored in the future: The anti-corruption unit that first uncovered the bribery and bid-rig­ging was disbanded in 2008, after more than 300 investigations in three years. 
“It is greatly disturbing that an organization plagued by corruption and mismanagement would disband its anti-corruption task force,” said 
U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of Florida, the ranking Republican on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, who has proposed requiring the U.N. to do more to fight corruption or risk losing U.S. financial support. “What will the (Obama) administration do to address U.S. taxpayer dollars being misappropriated, squandered, and stolen at the U.N.? We need to demand concrete reform now.” 

page 8 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Friday, March 19, 2010 
Pennsylvania terror suspect pleads not guilty 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — A woman accused of trolling the Internet as Jihad Jane and agreeing to marry a sus­pected terrorist and kill a Swedish artist targeted by radical Muslims cooperated with authorities, a congress­man said. 
Colleen LaRose pleaded not guilty Thursday to the four-count indictment at a brief arraignment in federal court in Philadelphia. The hearing marked her first public appearance after six months of detention follow­ing her unannounced arrest in October. She wore a green prison jumpsuit and corn rows in her blond hair and smiled warmly at her public defenders when she entered the courtroom. The judge set a May 3 trial date on charges in the indictment, unsealed last week. 
LaRose, 46, was accused of conspiring with fighters overseas and pledging to commit murder in the name 
of a Muslim holy war, or jihad. She was arrested Oct. 15 returning to Philadelphia from Europe and was swiftly jailed. 
Rep. Charles Dent, R.-Pa., said he learned through meetings with the FBI and other briefings that LaRose had been cooperating with authorities pursuing the international probe, who arrested seven people in Ireland last week. LaRose lived in his district. 
“I have a sense they learned as much as they could from her, and when that happens, you move for­ward with the criminal com­plaint,” Dent, who serves on intelligence and homeland security committees, told The Associated Press. “Will she be more cooperative in the future? I hope so.” 
The FBI, the U.S. attor ­ney ’s office and LaRose ’s 
p u b l i c  d e f e n d e r,  M a r k  
W i l s o n ,  d e c l i n e d  t o c o m  - 
ment.  

The indictment was filed March 4 and made public five days later, after Irish authorities detained an American woman, her Algerian husband and five others. Those suspects are linked to LaRose, according to a U.S. official not author­ized to discuss the case, who spoke to the AP previously on condition of anonymity. 
Thursday ’s arraignment lasted only minutes. LaRose uttered just two words — “not guilty” — when asked her plea to the charges: con­spiring to aid terrorists, con­spiring to kill someone over­seas, lying to the FBI and stealing her ex-boyfriend’s passport. 
Authorities were on LaRose ’s trail as early as July 2009, when the FBI interviewed her about more than a year’s worth of online posts and messages, includ­ing a 2008 YouTube video in which she said she was “desperate to do something” to ease the suffering of Muslims. 
She denied to agents that she had used the screen name Jihad Jane or had sent any of the messages recov­ered, which included fundraising appeals for the jihadist cause, according to the indictment. 
LaRose’s live-in boyfriend of five years, Kurt Gorman, of Pennsburg, did not attend Thursday ’s hearing, and there was no sign of other friends or relatives. Gorman has said that he knew noth­ing of her interest in Islam and that she disappeared without saying a word. While he worked, he said, she spent most of her time in their apartment, caring for his elderly father and using the computer. 
Dent said he ’s always known that “homegrown radicalism is a real threat.” 
“I just never knew it ’d occur in my backyard,” said Dent, who described Pennsburg as a Norman Rockwell-type town. “In this woman’s case, from what I can tell, she didn’t seem to have much of a tie to Islam other than what she learned over the Internet." 
From June 2008 through October 2009, LaRose, who also called herself Fatima Rose, went online to recruit male fighters for the cause, recruit women with Western passports to marry them and raise money for the holy war, the indictment charged. 
The suspects detained in Ireland include Jamie Paulin-Ramirez, a 31-year­old Colorado woman whose mother said she began talk­ing about jihad with her Muslim stepfather and soon spent most of her time online, according to the U.S. official. 
Paulin -Ramirez left Leadville, Colo., on Sept. 11, 2009, with her 6-year-old son and told her family she had married a fourth time, to the Algerian, whom she had met online, her mother said. Irish officials later said they had released the American woman. 
LaRose had left the United States on Aug. 23 for Europe, though her specific destination hasn ’t been revealed. 
Both women left troubled lives behind, LaRose having survived a suicide attempt and Paulin-Ramirez, accord­ing to her mother, an abu­sive first marriage and a childhood marked by bully­ing. 
LaRose spent most of her life in Texas, where she dropped out of high school, married at 16 and again at 24 and racked up a few minor arrests, records show. 
After a second divorce, she followed Gorman to Pennsylvania in about 2004 and began caring for his father while he worked long hours, sometimes on the road. In 2005, she swal ­lowed a handful of pills, later telling Pennsburg police she was upset over the death of her father but did not want to die, accord­ing to the police report. 
As she moved through her 40s without a job or any out­side hobbies, Gorman said, she started spending more time online. 
Though he did not consider her religious, and she apparently never joined a mosque, LaRose had by 2008 declared herself “desperate” to help Muslims in the YouTube video. 
LaRose and Gorman shared an apartment with his father in Pennsburg, a quaint if isolated town an hour northwest of Philadelphia. Just days after the father died in August, she stole Gorman’s passport 
an d f led , a ccordi n g  t o  th e  
indictment.  
The South Asian  man  she  

had agreed to marry told her in a March 2009 e-mail to go to Sweden to find the artist, Lars Vilks, who had depicted the Prophet Muhammad with the body of a dog, the indict­ment said. 
“I will make this my goal till i achieve it or die try­ing,” she wrote back, adding that her blond, blue-eyed, all -American looks would help her blend in. 




Friday, March 19, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Slave ship replica sails to U.S. and Cuba 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — It will be the rarest of sights: a black-hulled, two-masted replica of a slave -carrying schooner slipping into Havana’s harbor flying two flags — those of the United States and Cuba. 
That’s how it is for the Amistad, a symbol of both a dark 19th century past and modern public diplomacy. 
The Amistad is the 10-year­old official tall ship of the state of Connecticut and a replica of the Cuban coastal trader that sailed from Havana in 1839 with a cargo of African captives, only to become an emblem of the abolitionist movement. 
As a U.S.-flagged ship, the Amistad’s 10-day, two-city tour of Cuba provides a coun­terpoint to new and lingering tensions between Washington and Havana and stands out as a high-profile exception to the 48-year-old U.S. embargo of the Caribbean island. 
For the Amistad, Cuba also represents a final link as it retraces the old Atlantic slave trade triangle, making port calls that are not only reminders of the stain of slav­ery but also celebrations of the shared cultural legacies of an otherwise sorry past. 
When it drops anchor in Havana’s harbor on March 25, the Amistad will not only observe its 10th anniversary, it will commemorate the day in 1807 when the British Parliament first outlawed the slave trade. 
The powerful image of a vessel displaying home and host flags docking in Cuba is not lost on Gregory Belanger, the CEO and president of Amistad America Inc., the nonprofit organization that owns and operates the ship. 
“We’re completely aware of all of the issues currently sur­rounding the U.S. and Cuba,” he said. “But we approach this from the point of view that we have this unique his­tory that both societies are connected by. It gives us an opportunity to transcend con­temporary issues.” 
It’s not lost on Rep. William Delahunt, either. The Massachusetts Democrat has long worked to ease U.S. ­Cuba relations and he reached out to the State Department to make officials aware of the Amistad’s pro­posal. 
U.S. 
-flagged ships have docked in Havana before, but none as prominently as the Amistad. The Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control has periodically approved Cuba stops for semester-at-sea educational programs for American stu­dents, and the Commerce Department has authorized 

U.S. 
shiploads of exports under agriculture and med­ical exemptions provided in the Trade Sanctions Reform Act of 2000. 


“Obviously we have serious differences, disagreements,” Delahunt said. “But in this particular case the two gov­ernments, while not working together, clearly were aware of the profound significance of this particular commemo­ration.” 
The Amistad’s visit comes as international tension over Cuba’s human rights has heightened since the Feb. 23 death of Orlando Zapata Tamayo after a long hunger strike in jail. Another dissi­dent, Guillermo Farinas, has refused to eat or drink since shortly after Zapata Tamayo’s death. He is not imprisoned, though, and is allowing him­self to be fed intravenously. Both men are of African descent. 
“I would hope — it isn’t going to happen — that the ship would go into Havana harbor with a flag at half staff representing what happened on the history of that ship and what is currently happening in Cuba in terms of the viola­tions of human rights,” said Andy Gomez, a senior fellow at the University of Miami’s Institute for Cuban and Cuban-American Studies. 
The original Amistad’s story, the subject of a 1997 Steven Spielberg movie, began after it set sail from Havana in 1839. Its African captives rebelled, taking over the ship and sending it on a zigzag course up the U.S. coast until it was finally seized off the coast of Long Island. The captured Africans became an international cause for abolitionists; their fate was finally decided in 1841 when John Quincy Adams argued their case before the Supreme Court, which granted them their freedom. 
Miguel Barnet, a leading Cuban ethnographer and writer who has studied the African diaspora, said it is only appropriate that the new Amistad would call on the place of the original ship’s birth. Indeed, he said in an interview from Cuba on Wednesday, it is the horror of the slave trade that left behind a rich common bond 
— not just between the United States and Cuba, but with the rest of the Caribbean — that is rooted in Africa. 
“That’s why this is an hom­age to these men and women who left something precious for our culture,” he said. 
The new Amistad has crossed the Atlantic and wended its way through the Caribbean since 2007. It has worked with the United Nations and UNESCO’s Slave Route Project. Using high technology hidden in its wooden frame and rigging, the ship’s crew of sailors and students has simulcasted to schools and even to the U.N. General Assembly. 
It will do so again — with Cuban students — from Havana. 
“It’s about enlivening the history," said Steve Schwadron, Delahunt’s for­mer chief of staff and a con­sultant on the Amistad proj­ect, “and not just as a stale book.” 



The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Friday, March 19, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
The Independent, Daily Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 
Disability access on campus 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 

Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
needs improvement 

The University’s historic campus buildings are a point of pride for many in the Notre Dame community. What the older dorms, such as Badin Hall and Lyons Hall, lack in air conditioning and elevator access, they make up for in character. But these older buildings lack accessibility for people with physical disabilities. 
In some older buildings, ramps and elevators are miss­ing, or not easily accessed — something that is problem­atic for the members of the Notre Dame 
community with a physical disability. 
Many students have disabled or elderly family members who take pleasure in visit­ing campus. Walking up four flights of stairs in a residence hall may be daunting to your 80-something-year old grandmother. 
Due to some inaccessible buildings, such 
family members are missing out on a key part of the Notre Dame community. They cannot tour the Rock or see dorm rooms higher than on the first floor. It makes week­end trips to Notre Dame stressful instead of enjoyable and limits their experience. 
But inaccessibility affects students too. Those who use wheelchairs are forced to live in newer dorms that have more accommodations. 
Even if a student with a permanent disability is accom­modated in a newer dorm, students can be faced with a broken leg and months on crutches. A student who lives on the third floor of Badin Hall would be hard pressed to 
Can you tell me where he’s gone? There’s about to be a very big vote on health care reform, and wouldn’t you know that such reform includes funding for violence to the littlest among us. And despite the president’s claim to the contrary, you know he’s going to sign that bill if and when it’s presented to him by the House and Senate. Can there be any real any doubt? 
But let’s get back to John. He’s been as quiet as a church mouse ever since Commencement 2009, hasn’t he? Sure, there are now going to be Masses on the mall. Sure, there are going to be a blue ribbon panels and seminars and forums, and sure, we’ll use “fair-minded words” and look for common ground and tell each other how we need to reduce the num­ber of instances of prenatal violence to the waiting-to-be­born. 
But what I’m not sure about is whether or not we’re going to hear a public pronouncement by University President Fr. John Jenkins condemning the inclusion of funding for abor­tion in the health care reform bill. It’s not that this bill neces­sarily reaffirms the legal right of a woman to have an abor­tion; it’s that we are now going to be paying her to have one if the bill passes. I don’t think it would take a brain surgeon or a rocket scientist or a PhD philosophy graduate to understand what the impact on public debate such an action of public condemnation could accomplish. Certainly, its effect would be felt a whole lot more than a hand-written, “heartfelt, Dear Barack letter” or a “What up, dude, ringy-dingy,” I would think. We are all well aware of how the very-well-publicized Commencement 2009 shaped public opinion about Catholics in general and Notre Dame in particular. 
Health Care Reform as presently proposed is a very bad bill, and the best thing that could seemingly happen would be for the process to start over so as to allow for it to get done right all the way through — but it doesn’t look like that is going to happen now. Having said that, it’s rare when any of us have the opportunity to make a real difference in life (or death) — certainly not on such a grand scale — so I’m urging you to seize the moment, Fr. John. 
You know you have the platform at Notre Dame to demon­strate a true, courageous concern for the unborn if you were to go public with your thoughts, and that would be a message that would carry far and wide. But I know you’re probably 
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Sarah Mervosh Meaghan Veselik Molly Madden Allan Joseph Carly Landon John Helms 
“As long as we respond predictably 
Graphics Viewpoint 
to what feels good and what feelsJaclyn Espinoza Michelle Maitz bad, it is easy for others to exploit Scene Lauren our preferences for their own ends.” 
Adriana Pratt Brauweiler 
Mihaly CsikszentmihalyiHungarian psychologist 
get to her room every day without an elevator to assist her. 
The University has expanded campus and constructed many new buildings in the past 20 years. To its credit, it has worked to make newer buildings more accommodat­ing. 
McGlinn Hall, for example, keeps one room open every year in case a student gets hurt and needs to live in a 

tor of McGlinn Hall, said. 
But ideally, all dorms would have elevators and would be able to leave a room open in the case a disabled student needs to be accommo­dated. 
Although there is not a quick and easy solu­tion to this problem, the University should 
begin to make accessibility a priority. 
The University allocates funds for construction each year, which has resulted in some beautiful new buildings. As these projects are completed, the University should examine the architecture of older buildings to see where improvements can be made to increase accessibility. 
Every building should have a ramp for people with physical disabilities to enter the building and, ideally, every building should have an elevator. 
While this involves a lot of time and money to make every building more accessible, recognizing the need is the first step toward change. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Has anyone seen my old friend John? 
thinking that you don’t want to bother the president right now during his “busiest ... week” ever. I know, Fr. John, that you were hoping for “deepened dialogue over time” on this mat­ter, but what better place for such a message to emanate from than Our Lady’s University and what better time than now? 
But I know there are arguments against rocking the boat. You know what; it is important to get 30 million more Americans on health care, even if it is a very bad bill that can’t sustain itself or the quality of care over time. And you know what else — those women who find themselves in an unplanned pregnancy would probably get an abortion anyway 
— whether we pay for it or not. And they might even get it done in some back alley by some meth-addled, would-be Dr. Nick (if it weren’t for the meth) using a coat hanger as a “sur­gical instrument” rather than by a board-certified, health care practitioner in a pristine, sanitized, hospital-type setting using the latest, most-up-to-datest, scientific, piercing, crush­ing, dismembering and suction equipment — but I digress. 
And if imploring the president to do the right thing might prove to be a little too much for your tastes, is it unreasonable to expect a public vote of support — “We’re with you, Bart” — for the courageous Michigan congressman who appears to be out there all alone in his fight for the most innocent among us? 
But you never know, Fr. John, do you? Who’s to say that a little help at this seemingly, most-opportune time would really save an innocent life or two — or maybe spare a would-be­mother a lifetime of grief. But this we do know. Despite words to the contrary, dead babies can never take care of them­selves; they can not even take things off the shelves. Little voices many do not want to hear need a really big voice to speak for them — not tomorrow, not next week, not next month, not next year, but right now. 
So, seize the moment, Fr. John — there will never be anoth­er one like this one. I guess it’s all a matter of “what would you fight for?” I wonder what, and perhaps more importantly, who, Notre Dame, our Mother, would fight for. 
Michael Sydlik 
alumnus Class of 1973, 1975 March 18 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Man is the artificer of his own happiness.” 
Henry David Thoreau 
U.S. author 
The Observer 

Viewpoint
Friday, March 19, 2010 page 11 
My love-hate relationship with Coach Brey 
Four years ago a couple friends and I were sitting in a condo in Tucson on our first spring break of college, drinking the Amstel Light that my friend’s dad hap­pened to have in the fridge that day when the NIT brack­et was announced. Our Fighting Irish that season had solidified their spot in the NIT field with their 6-10 record in Big East play (which was a frustratingly impressive feat con-

Bob Kessler 
sidering they outscored their The 19th league opponents by Grade 37 points) and we were eager to find a way to support the team. 
Once the field was set we did what we could by researching our first opponent on ESPN.com. After figuring out which players on the opposing team would cre­ate the most trouble for our guys, we sent an e-mail to Coach Brey letting him know that he should watch out for these players and wishing him and the team luck in the game. Most major college coaches probably wouldn’t respond to such an e-mail (in fact most major col­lege coaches probably wouldn’t have their e-mail address so readily available to students), but Mike Brey isn’t most coaches. 
Before I continue, however, I must mention one of the perils of print journal­ism. Because certain deadlines must be met, events oftentimes transpire between writing and publication that completely change the context through which pieces are read. This column was due to my edi­tor before I knew the outcome of yester­day’s game; an outcome which will undoubtedly have Notre Dame basketball fans (the approximately 73 or us that exist) loving or loathing Coach Brey right about now. 
These two outcomes, however, aren’t much different than how my feelings for Coach Brey have progressed over the course of the past five years. Sometimes I love him, and am convinced that he is the perfect coach to meet the expectations that Notre Dame students and alums have for our program, while other times I am completely flabbergasted by decisions he makes and things he says. In short: I have a love-hate relationship with Coach Brey. 
I love Coach Brey for reasons that are exemplified by his response to our e-mail four years ago. Most coaches wouldn’t bother to respond to such an email, but Brey understands how much the fans 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Shut up or get out! 
As I listen to your conversation while I sit in the basement of the Library, I wonder why you think this is a good place to have a conversation about your trip to Panama City. Perhaps you have never been to a library before and do not know that they are not places for frivolity and conversation. Since we are all highly accomplished students, however, I doubt that this is the case. 
Perhaps it is because you want to draw attention to yourself. Maybe you want to impress your study buddy. Maybe you’re trying (unsuccessfully) to hit on your study buddy. Maybe you just want everyone to look at you, your pile of books, and your four empty bottles of Five Hour Energy with pity. 
As a reader, you may be thinking to yourself, “why don’t you lay down the law and tell people to shut up instead of wasting valuable study time to write into The Observer.” Well, just so you know, I’m that girl. If you’ve ever been to the basement of the library and struck up a conversation, then you know me. I’m the girl who marched up to your table and not-so-nicely pointed out to you that there are plenty of places to talk either on the first floor or in LaFortune. I’m the person who gets dirty looks from some (talkers) and high fives from others (fellow annoyed studiers). I’m the person who says, I don’t care why you’re talking, shut up or get out. 
I am encouraging my fellow studiers and hard workers to join my “Shut Up or Get Out” movement. Join me in my march up to that noisy table, join me in my scolding of those scallywags. Eventually (hope­fully), they’ll either shut up or get out! 
After we successfully complete our mission of removing the chatter boxes, we’re going after the coughers and gum chewers. 
Katie McKeough 
junior Lyons Hall March 15 


care about the team and he makes sure they know that he appreciates it. He sends out personal e-mails to the Leprechaun Legion before home games to remind the students and to get them excited. These personal touches make Coach Brey endearing to me, and are reasons why I love him as our coach. 
However, there are also many things that happen surrounding our basketball team that make me incredibly frustrated with his work as our coach. Before the aforementioned e-mail, I was convinced that Brey deserved to be fired for all the close losses the team endured during my freshmen year; and since then a variety of critics have called for him to be fired for all sorts of perceived coaching errors such as a lack of focus on defense (at least for the first 9.7 seasons of his career) and a depthless bench. 
Personally, I always get frustrated with his refusal to play underclassmen for any significant amount of time. I don’t under­stand why players like Tim Abromitis and Carleton Scott couldn’t contribute to a team last year that failed to make the NCAA Tournament. Looking back over the past four years, I think we’re now lucky that Kyle McAlarney was suspend­ed for most of a season as that was seemingly the only way Tory Jackson was able to gain valuable experience early in his career (the first time we can ever thank South Bend Police for anything). 
The biggest problem that recurs for me with Coach Brey is how he is constantly making excuses for his teams underper­forming, sometimes even before the teams underperform. He will go to events with students and say things like, “you can’t expect to win on the road in the Big East” and “our only goal is to get to New York” (back when teams had to qualify for the Big East Tournament). The excus­es just don’t cut it for me. 
Over the past month, however, all of the reasons that I loathe Coach Brey have dissipated. The team is playing defense, at least one underclassman has played a couple minutes in a game, and the close games have been turning in our favor. This has left us with a team that I believe in (probably too much if you saw my bracket) and a coach that I am once again loving for reasons both on and off the court. 
That is, until something happens to make me hate him again. 
Bob Kessler is a 2009 graduate living in China and can be contacted at bob020787@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Response from Notre Dame Right to Life 

As president of Notre Dame Right to Life, I would like to respond to Anthony Michael Durkin’s column (March 16) regarding NDRTL’s involvement, or alleged lack there­of, with the death penalty John Gerardi issue. 
Guest Column

First of all, I want to clarify the Church’s teach­ing on the death penalty, which I think Mr. Durkin misrepresents. I applaud Andrew Lynch’s clarifica­tion of Catholic teaching in his response to Durkin’s article on March 17, in which he quoted Cardinal Ratzinger as saying that the death penalty is not an intrin­sic evil, that its moral status depends on the circumstances of its use, and that Catholics can legitimately disagree on when it should be applied. 
Not only because of its intrinsi­cally evil nature, but also because of its much larger scope, abortion has been a greater focus of our club than the death penalty. There have been 40,000,000 abortions in America since 1973, approximately 4,000 per day; meanwhile, there have been around 1,100 executions total since 1973. I am not thereby saying that capital punishment is an acceptable practice; any unjust taking of life is wrong. However, when faced with the numbers, it’s hard to deny that abortion is a much more serious societal ill. 
This moral distinction notwith­standing, we at NDRTL have fre­quently co-sponsored and adver­tised for events of such groups as Notre Dame Against State Killings (ND-ASK), events that were specifi­cally aimed against the modern application of the death penalty in the United States. It seems that Mr. Durkin has not followed our club’s activity very closely over the past four years, over which time we have frequently engaged in co-sponsorship of anti-death penalty events; we do so whenever we are asked. We agree with Ven. John Paul II’s assessment that in mod­ern, First World countries, the application of the death penalty is largely unnecessary. In at least one of the two cases where the death penalty was used in Michigan City, we encouraged our members to pray that the sentence be commut­ed. 
There are other reasons why NDRTL is not as involved in the death penalty as Mr. Durkin would like. Durkin was correct to high­light the importance of defending life at all stages and the relevance of anti-death penalty work to NDRTL’s mission. Though these points are valid, NDRTL does not include anti-death penalty work as a part of our regular club activities for reasons of limited time and resources. We have a large num­ber of pre-existing initiatives and events that keep our leadership extremely busy, and we would pre­fer to focus on those events rather than spread ourselves too thin with new commitments. Secondly, other existing organizations were already doing work regarding the death penalty issue, such as ND­ASK and the Center for Social Concerns. In light of this, NDRTL sees it as important to remain cen­trally committed to the specific life issue of abortion, and to dedicate our efforts to doing this work well. 
There are other accusations in Durkin’s piece that are false. First, NDRTL does not believe that “once you are conceived, you are a human being and, thus, cannot be killed under any circumstances,” as Durkin suggests we do. Catholic teaching only forbids the direct killing of innocent human beings (such as the unborn) in any cir­cumstance; someone who is trying to murder you, for example, can legitimately be killed. Right to Life believes what the Church does; Mr. Durkin should get his facts right before accusing us of being “incon­sistent.” 
Durkin also accuses us of engag­ing in a mainly political enterprise during the March for Life. Any of the 400 students, faculty and administrators who went on the March can tell you the event was not political. Certainly we want to overturn Roe v. Wade; it is an unjust decision that deprives legal protection to a whole class of human beings. However, NDRTL has never campaigned, as Durkin alleges, for any Members of Congress. The March was much more about prayer than politics. 
Ultimately, it seems that Durkin does not understand the role of our club within the Notre Dame com­munity. Especially since University President Fr. John Jenkins’ forma­tion of the President’s Task Force to Support the Choice for Life, NDRTL sees its role on campus to be not only one of promoting respect for life at its most vulnera­ble stages, but also that of support­ing and encouraging the University in its own commitment to the defense of innocent unborn life, a position that has sometimes been overshadowed by other issues the University has promoted (health care reform, environmental issues, Third World development, etc.). I hope you readers of The Observer appreciate the mission of our organization, and I hope you would join with us in our mission. 
John Gerardi is a senior and is president of Notre Dame Right to Life. He can be contacted at jgerardi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 

Scene
page 12 Friday, March 19, 2010 

Ostensibly, e-readers like the Amazon Kindle and Sony Nook are like iPods for books. You load them up with digital good­ies that you can use but aren’t supposed to share. It is an enor­mous, real-but-not-real library of content that can go pretty much anywhere at any time. The imminent release of the Apple iPad, with its pur-
Jordan
ported e-book 
Gamble
capabilities, makes the comparison even more apt. So far, Scene though, I’ve 
Editor 
only used the Kindle. 
The Kindle seemed to combine many good things — no more paper, lots of books and immediate access to them. But e-readers have defi­nite drawbacks. First of all, the Kindle, even before you start buying books, is pretty expen­sive: The first version, which I have, was $360. With the Kindle box in my lap, all I could think was, “Dear God, that is a lot of money.” 
The Kindle’s “revolutionary” purpose is to make entire libraries of books easily accessi­ble, the same way the iPod did for music. The iPod can con­dense days of songs into a device the size of a credit card. Before the iPod, you simply couldn’t carry around all your music anywhere. You needed a Sony Walkman (cassette tape or CD), car stereo, boom box or maybe a little radio — but those didn’t always make the music private, and people still had to bring several different records, tapes or CDs if they wanted to have a variety of music. The iPod and other digital music players make entire collections portable and easy to organize. 
The problem with the Kindle is that most books are already portable in the first place. Gone are the leather-bound tomes of past centuries, those unwieldy vinyl records of the book world. And because books — most of them, anyway — take more than four minutes to finish, it’s not as if the average person will really want or need 1,500 of them (the Kindle’s average capacity) stored up “just in case.” The typical recreational reader will probably be carry­ing a trade paperback, which is not burdensome, heavy or sus­ceptible to extreme heat or a little bit of water. Even if they are carrying a mammoth “Harry Potter,” it is still one book, and the reader will prob­ably be reading it continuously until the end, not switching back and forth between “Sorcerer’s Stone” and “Deathly Hallows” on a “Best of HP” chapter playlist. 
Another problem with the current crop of e-readers is their embrace of access over ownership. You can read the books, you can make them trav­el with ease, but you can’t line them up on a shelf to display with pride (or smugness) and you especially can’t share them, because they only exist in your access to their content, not as physical possessions. Buying books for the Kindle is a farce of shopping — you pay money for it, you use it but you don’t really have it. 
This separation between con­tent and physicality is annoying for someone who likes to flip through a book with ease, to write down notes in the mar­gins with a pencil or to keep a mental picture of a particular passage in order to find it later just by moving to “about here” in the book’s pages. 
Maybe later versions of the Kindle or other e-book readers will find a way to mimic the hands-on experience of book reading. But right now they are woefully inept in the ease-of­use department. Pleasure read­ing may not need lots of pencil marks, but serious, close read­ing for class often needs lots of annotation. Textbooks end up looking like a treasure map in code, with weird acronyms and zig-zagging lines and the occa­sional highlighted phrase (if you don’t plan to sell the book back to the bookstore, another thing you can’t do with digital “prop­erty”). 
The Kindle does offer ways to interact with the digital text, though. There’s a way to book­mark pages, and when connect­ed to the wireless network, you can even highlight words and connect instantly to an online dictionary. But when it comes to making that treasure map of clever phrases, obscure allu­sions or main ideas, the going gets tough. You can make notes, but it involves scrolling through the page, highlighting a line, choosing “add comment” from the menu and then typing out the note on the tiny QWERTY keyboard. The notes are nice and neat, but they don’t come with arrows or brackets or cir­cles or underlines. 
Even though the content is all there — the words, the author’s name and the copyright date — the experience is somehow diminished. No rustle of pages, no eye-catching cover art, no worn binding or old-book smell. The iPod doesn’t take away from the experience of recorded music. If anything, I think hav­ing that much music so easily available has made me appreci­ate the songs more, not less. But the e-book reader takes all the physicality out of the read­ing experience. The world on the page already forms in my imagination — but I think it’s one step too far to make the medium of the page intangible, too. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


By JESS SHAFFER 
Scene Writer 
This Friday and Saturday Notre Dame students will be staging David Auburn’s play, “Proof.” The production is directed, produced and acted by Notre Dame students. 
The play follows Catherine, a 25 year-old struggling with the recent death of her beloved father. Catherine’s late father is renowned as a brilliant mathe­matician, who had a profound effect on academia. On a per­sonal level, Catherine shares her father’s love of math, which was the source of their tight bond. Inspired by her father’s brilliant mind, she remained close with him, acting as his caretaker, even in his final year. But before his death, Catherine witnessed the sad loss of her father’s intellect and his descent into madness. Struggling to deal with the loss, Catherine’s own sanity is thrown into question. Her sister is convinced that Catherine has indeed lost her mind. 
These stressed family dynam­ics are exacerbated when an eager graduate student discov­ers a lost, but genius, mathe­matical proof. The play tries to answer the question of the proof’s authorship. Did Catherine’s late father have a moment of lucidity in his final years of madness? Is the genius proof in fact his? Or is Catherine herself responsible for the mathematical piece as she claims? 
Dealing with themes of intel­lectual property, academic inspiration, madness, loss and family relationships, “Proof” elegantly approaches sensitive issues in Catherine’s life. Still, the same themes appeal to the audience’s own experiences as well. Perhaps this is why Auburn’s play has won many awards, including a Tony award and Pulitzer Prize. The play first was staged on Broadway, starring Mary-Louise Parker and Larry Bryggmann. After its Broadway success, it was adapted into a film in 2005, fea­turing Gwyneth Paltrow, Anthony Hopkins and Jake Gyllenhaal. 
Notre Dame’s production will star Julie Halloran, Chris Stare, Bobby Reichle and Courtney Cox. It is directed by Carolyn Demanelis and produced by Tom Blanford, Robert Jenista and Brenna Williams. 
The cast and crew bring the story to life on a smaller scale for the Notre Dame audience, as the play will be enacted in the intimate setting of Washington Hall’s Lab Theatre. 
This close setting is ideal for a play that handles the sensitive issues that both its character’s and its audience struggle with. Questions of honesty, family dynamics and intellectual inspi­ration will certainly hit home for many student audience members. 
The zeal of the cast coupled with the intimacy of the produc­tion will certainly make the piece even more relatable here at Notre Dame. 
As Courtney Cox, a cast mem­ber and Scene writer, said: “I personally find the play so great because it is very real. There’s something about each character that is easy to relate to. I think the audience will see the same thing as well. It’s a very emo­tionally touching piece and I’m sure the audience will appreci­ate the depth of each charac­ter’s struggle.” 
The student production will be showing in Washington Hall’s Lab Theatre. Tickets are $3 for students and $5 for adults. General seating is avail­able at the door. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffe1@nd.edu 
Observer Graphic I JACLYN ESPINOZA 
Photo Illustration by Pat Coveney and Jaclyn Espinoza 

Friday, March 19, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 2 
COMMENTARY 

South Bend takes on vital role of sixth man 
By JARED JEDICK 
Senior Staff Writer 
The postseason is about to begin for the No. 7 Irish, who earned a No. 2 seed in the NCAA Tournament and are set to take on No. 15 seed Cleveland State on their home turf in the Purcell Pavilion. 
“We had a great season,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “But the second season starts now, and we want to have a great second season.” 
The invitation marks the 17th time in school history that Notre Dame (27-5, 12-4 Big East) has been included in the NCAA tournament and is the team’s 15th consecutive appearance. 
The Irish were upset by Minnesota in the first round last year, putting an early end to their tournament hopes. 
“I think after last year, we’re going to really concentrate on Cleveland State,” McGraw said. season fourth in the Horizon “I don’t think there’s any ques-League, but managed to put tion that this team knows what together a run in the confer-can happen. ence tournament, defeating 
“Hopefully we’ll play a little favored Butler 66-57 to earn better than we did last year if the automatic bid. McGraw said we make it to that second that the Cleveland State might round, because Cleveland come in with a lot of momen­State’s a pretty tum. good team too. “They are 
You know, “You know, everyone’s coming off of a e v e r y o n e ’s good. And at this time win,” McGraw good. And at said. “They are 
of year, you’ve got
this time of coming in with a year, you’ve got nothing to lose, you lot of confi­
nothing to lose, just go out and play.” dence.” you just go out Cl eveland and play.” State is led by 
Muffet McGraw 
The Irish senior guard have the Irish coach Kailey Klein, advantage of who paces the playing in their team in scoring home gym for the first two with 18.6 points and 7.3 games of the tournament, an rebounds per game. advantage not lost on freshman “Klein is their best player; guard Skylar Diggins. she is a really good player,” 
“It is always good to have the McGraw said. “I think she shot crowd on your side, and this about 168 3s on the season.” crowd is so electric,” Diggins Pairing with Klein is junior said. “They know that the guard Shawnita Garland, who crowd is not going to be on posts impressive numbers their side, so they are going to across the board with 13 come in and we expect them to points, five rebounds, 3.3 come out with a chip on their assists and three steals per shoulders.” game. 
The Vikings (19-13, 11-7 “They are a much faster-Horizon) finished the regular paced team, with those kinds of 

A few weeks ago, a cookie cake at the Mishawaka Meijer caught my eye. It was situated on a shelf with the other generic decorated cakes that said “Happy Birthday,” or just con­tained a few flowers. This one, right in the middle of the display, was deco­rated with an orange-frosting basketball. In blue let­ters, it read: 
“Go Irish women!” 
It was a little surprising to see that the bakery had thought of that particular message to sell a gigantic cookie. But it probably went quickly in this town. 
A few days ago, two stories in the South Bend Tribune caught my eye. Both were short staff reports containing news about the women’s team. The stories were labeled as “Notre Dame bas­ketball.” 
A little searching found a recent story about the men’s team; it was labeled “Notre Dame men’s basketball.” 
That one might have just been an oversight, but cer­tainly one indicative of the city-wide relationship with the women’s basketball team. 
The Irish are South Bend’s hometown heroes; a team the city has supported all year long, through good times and, well, Connecticut. 
It’s only fitting that Notre Dame begins its tournament road at home, as a reward to fans who packed the Purcell Pavilion for every game and sold it out six times. 
Prior to this season, the women’s basketball team had six sellouts in its entire histo­ry. Now it has 12 and looks to add a 13th Sunday for its first-round game against Cleveland State. 
“They’re our sixth man, they’re the fuel to our car to get us going,” said freshman guard Skylar Diggins, a South Bend native responsible in no small part for the city’s love of the team. Many fans have fol­lowed her career for years. 
Senior guard Melissa Lechlitner, another area native, said the community support has always been strong but was even better this season. 
“They are just excited and enthusiastic about every­thing,” she said. 

It’s fair to say that the Irish football team belongs to alum­ni, as well as to “subway alumni” and fans all across the country, who are as dedi­cated as they come. 
It’s also fair to say that the men’s basketball team belongs to the students, who proudly wear their Leprechaun Legion t-shirts and pack the arena, chanting cheers specific to each oppos­ing team. 
But the women’s basketball team truly belongs to South Bend and the surrounding area. It belongs to grown men and women in neon-green t-shirts who dye their hair, wear funny hats and paint their faces green for game day. They stand up and dance when the band plays the fight song. And after the game, they take their children to Heritage Hall, where they get autographs on anything flat enough for the players to sign. 
“Even the last game we played against UConn here [on March 1], we were down what, 15, 20 and they were screaming and cheering like it was a one-point game,” Lechlitner said. 
In fact, there was just one moment at that Connecticut game when the crowd was silent: when the announcers were declaring the winner of the “Most Spirited Section” award for the section that had cheered hardest all season long. 
The crowd was also quiet for a moment during the Feb. 14 Pink Zone game when the announcer declared that Notre Dame had raised more than $70,000 for breast can­cer research and awareness. The community didn’t stop there, though; the Irish have now toppled $100,000. 
With the exception of those two times, fans have made sure to keep the Purcell Pavilion loud and provided a great atmosphere, creating a home-court advantage that led to a 14-1 home record. 
And if the Irish add two more wins to that total this week, South Bend will cer­tainly celebrate — perhaps with some giant cookies — knowing that it helped its favorite team on the march toward the championships. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Irish focused on Vikings 
screens and cuts that are going to be really hard to guard,” McGraw said. 
McGraw said that the team has really been focusing on defense this week, finding ways to cover the Vikings’ fast-paced motion offense. 
Beyond working on defense, Notre Dame plans to mix things up in the tournament, develop­ing both its offense and defense to give teams something they have never seen before. 
“We’re putting a lot of new wrinkles in, a lot of nuances to the offense, a couple of differ­ent looks on defense,” McGraw said. “You can’t do the same thing.” 
If the Irish advance, they will play the winner of the match between No. 7-seed Wisconsin (21-10, 10-8 Big East) and No. 10-seed Vermont (26-6, 13-3 America East). That matchup would be Tuesday at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Wisconsin and Vermont will tip off at noon Sunday at the Purcell Pavilion, with Notre Dame and Cleveland State slat­ed to follow a half an hour after the conclusion of that game. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
Three players named All-Region 
By JARED JEDICK 
Senior Staff Writer 
Freshman guard Skylar Diggins and senior guards Ashley Barlow and Lindsay Schrader each garnered all-Donne and Baylor center Brittney Griner. 
“[Diggins] is doing it all every single night, she has been incredibly consistent for a freshman,” McGraw said. “She has really had a fantastic year and wants to 


region honors, which were get better.” announced Tuesday by the Barlow said Women’s Basketball Coaches she is pleased Association. Forty players that all the will be chosen from the 52 time she has all -region nominees to put into the become members of the team working 2010 State Farm Coaches’ hard has final­All-America Team. ly paid off. 
This is the first time in “I feel like team history that three people are Notre Dame players have noticing what I received this honor in the am doing. It is same season. The Irish have a big accom ­focused on just doing the lit­tle things every game that give her team a better shot at winning the game. 
“I was pretty shocked [about earning all -region honors],” Schrader said. “I always consider myself a really blue ­collar kind of 
“I feel like people are player. I am 
not going to 
noticing what I am 
score twenty doing. It is a big points for you, accomplishment for but I will do all the little 
me.” 
things for you: rebound, set a Ashley Barlow good screen, senior guard and all the lit­
tle things for 
you.” 
Notre Dame is among just three teams in the country with three all-region selec­tions. The other two are top-seeded squads Connecticut and Tennessee. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
only fielded multiple selec­tions three times in their history, and only ten differ­ent players have earned the honor. 
Diggins is one of just three freshman this year to earn the honor, along with Delaware forward Elena plishment for me,” Barlow said. “I have been working really hard, so I feel like I got rewarded this year. It is a really big honor.” 
Schrader has been McGraw’s go-to player all year when she has needed a big shot, but Schrader is 

Friday, March 19, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
A ‘sense of urgency’ 
Leading Notre Dame’s attack, five seniors get their final crack at the NCAA Tournament 
Final Four, as the No. 2 seed with less than a minute to 
By CHRIS MASOUD 

in the Kansas City Region. But play, Barlow hit the game-
Sports Writer 

unlike the team from a year winning 3 after missing her ago, this year’s squad fea-previous four attempts. 
Despite the buzz traditional-tures five seniors not willing “She’s got such a great per­ly associated with March to finish their collegiate sonality, and obviously every-Madness, Notre Dame’s NCAA careers just yet. one sees what she does on the Tournament run last year “Last year we lacked that court,” senior guard Melissa could not have been more sense of urgency in terms of Lechlitner said. “She brings anticlimactic. There was no ‘This is our last game,’ so much to us offensively, confetti pouring from the ceil-because we had no one grad-grabbing that huge rebound ing, no unruly fans rushing uating,” senior or making that the home court — just a first-forward Erica clutch shot. round defeat at the hands of Willi amson Just the epito-No. 10 -seed Minnesota in said. “With five me of what a front of a stunned home people who are “We just get along senior should crowd. saying ‘This is with each other, we do.” 
While that scene never my last chance Each brings a
know how to work
made the Irish postseason to wear a Notre unique set of 
well with each other.” 
highlight film, the defeat has Dame uniform,’ skills to the become ingrained in the we’re going to floor that gives memory of those on the court. go out and play Ashley Barlow Irish coach “I don’t think it’s ever been to the best of Muffet McGraw 
senior guard
fully behind us,” senior guard our ability.” an arsenal of Lindsay Schrader said. “It’s They are a plays and styles always been in the back of unit of five sen-to keep the 
our minds because that ’s iors. Or maybe opposition on where our motivation came three guards, a forward, and its heels. Perhaps just as from, that’s why we worked a hybrid that can play any important, practicing and so hard this summer because position on the floor. Or playing in the Big East togeth­of that and how we felt. We maybe two fierce competitors, er for four years has given never want to feel like that two unselfish distributors, them the opportunity to feed again.” and a motivator that brings off each other’s talent. PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Yet with no seniors on the out the team’s best. Whatever But their greatest asset to Irish senior Lindsay Schrader lines up her shot during Notre 2009 team, no tears of disap-classifications are thrown on the team may be the seniors’ Dame’s 97-53 victory over Indianapolis in a preseason game. pointment were this year’s ability to develop the fresh-shed. Watching g r a d u a t i n g men and sophomores into the season average. she’s there.” the Sweet 16 class, one unify-legitimate competitors on “I felt so helpless,” A starter for the majority of bid be decided “Last year we lacked ing thread can both ends of the court. Schrader said. “I’m not the her career, Williamson has on their home be used to Guard Skylar Diggins has sitting on the sidelines kind of seen a steady reduction in 
that sense of urgency
court could describe them turned one of the best fresh-person, I have to be doing playing time this season due have been a in terms of ‘This is all. man campaigns in program something. When I saw my to the emergence of junior demoralizing our last game,’ “First and history, and it’s not over. teammates out there needing forwards Becca Bruszewski experience, but foremost, I McGraw credits Diggins’ rapid help and I couldn’t do any-and Devereaux Peters into 
because we had no
the desire to think all of us development into an All-Big thing, I felt so playmakers in make a return one graduating.” bring leader -East Second Team honoree to bad, sick to my the post. was fueled that ship, ” senior the experience and maturity s t o m a c h “I think the steady Despite the day. guard Ashley of her veterans. because I felt so obvious temp-
Erica Williamson 
hand that we offer for

“If I was a Barlow said. “I think that’s so important helpless.” tation to throw 
senior forward 
senior last year “We’ve been because she’s learning shots A l t h o u g h them allows them to in the towel, I would have here four years, from the upperclassmen, ” tempted to play within Williamson has been very, very some of us even McGraw said. “They’re help-blame herself taken the high 
themselves and excel

disappointed with the way we five. We just get along with ing her, they let her be cre-for the only loss road. went out,” Schrader said. each other, we know how to ative and play her game, and of the season, from that point.” “She’s really “And good thing we didn’t work well with each other.” still they communicate well Schrader said stepped up and have any seniors because I Barlow’s leadership was put with her. She just fits in so she had to is always doing 
Melissa Lechlitner 

would have felt bad for them. to the test in one of the tough-well with everything and remind herself everything she 
senior guard

This year, I just want to end est stretches of the season, a everyone.” to take a posi-can for the my career on a win.” two-game road trip beginning Lechlitner believes the abili-tive approach to t e a m , ” 
To do that the Irish will with a matchup against ty of the seniors to maintain the setback, the same Lechlitner said. “She’s proba­have to make it to San Syracuse in the hostile their composure and poise in approach she took when she bly one of the most unselfish Antonio, the site of this year’s Carrier Dome. Down by two the midst of a difficult situa-tore her ACL her sophomore players on this team and will 
tion has been especially help-season. Grateful for the put her body on the line and ful to their teammates, who opportunity to play in the do absolutely everything she look to follow in their exam-tournament, Schrader now needs to do to help us be suc­ple. looks forward to a second cessful.” 
“We’re just a steady force,” chance at defending the home Walk-ons seldom get playing Lechlitner said. “When adver-floor. time at the collegiate level. sity’s thrown or a game might “It wasn’t my fault that I Senior guard Alena be getting tight or we’re down got hurt,” Schrader said. “I Christiansen is no exception, a little bit, I think the steady just had to keep telling myself yet she has managed to posi­hand that we that any given tively impact her team in a 
offer for them night anybody rarely appreciated position. allows them to can go down. “She’s found a great role for play within You just have herself,” McGraw said. “She’s 
“I just want to make
themselves and to put the best the first one off the bench excel from that it to San Antonio, of your abilities cheering, giving everyone a point.” that’s my bread and to the time that pat on the back and encour-Every season you have it and agement if they’re not playing 
butter right now.” 
has its ups and take nothing well.” down and every for granted.” The seniors will leave quite team must deal Lindsay Schrader But Schrader a legacy on the women’s bas-with the possi-is just one link ketball program, one that 
senior guard
bility of injury. in McGraw ’s includes four tournament When Schrader f o u r -g u a r d appearances and a trip to the sprained her offense. A nat-Sweet 16 in 2008. However, ankle in the ural point they still have some unfin­first half of a victory over guard and the unanimous ished business. DePaul, that possibility leader on offense, Lechlitner’s “I just want to make it to became a reality. ball -handling skills are a San Antonio, that’s my bread 
Notre Dame became a complement to her drive and and butter right now,” noticeably different team on outstanding work ethic. Schrader said. “If I can do both ends of the floor without “She’s the leader of this that, I would say I had a very the fifth-year senior at the team,” Williamson said. successful year hands down. helm. The Irish dropped con-“She’s the heart and soul. Actually that’s all the girls. secutive road games to No. 18 When she’s on the court you Everybody wants to go to San St. John ’s and No. 13 can tell that everything else Antonio.” 

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Georgetown, averaging 10 has calmed down. When she’s 



Senior guard Ashley Barlow dribbles the ball during Notre points fewer on offense while playing you can tell that we Contact Chris Masoud at Dame’s 90-66 victory over DePaul on Feb. 14. giving up 14 more points than play so much better because cmasoud@nd.edu 
Friday, March 19, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 4 

JACLYN ESPINOZA | Observer Graphic 

Predicting the NCAA run 

Laura Myers 
Prediction: Notre Dame loses to Stanford in semifinals 
When asked if she could have drawn a better brack­et for her team, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said: “I would’ve put us in a bracket with all 15-and 16­seeds.” 
That means no. 

While the team will not look past its opening-round opponents, the two home games should be a breeze. 
This year’s Irish have two things they didn’t have when they were shocked in the 2009 first round: an increased focus drawn from that early exit, and Skylar Diggins. 
Combine those with a bracket whose other top teams are No.3-seed Oklahoma, which the Irish have beat, and No. 1-seed Nebraska, the best possible draw for the Irish, and the road to San Antonio looks pretty clear. 

Chris Masoud 
Prediction: Notre Dame loses to Stanford in semifinals 

Notre Dame’s fast-paced offense and aggressive style on defense will be too much to handle for its early-round opponents. Beginning with the statement win over Cleveland State, the Irish break in Purcell Pavilion’s post­season debut in style. Freshman phenom Skylar Diggins will give the home fans what they want to see, as she should have no trouble tearing up opposing defenses. Don’t be surprised if she averages over 20 points a game. 
The highlight of the NCAA tournament comes in the Sweet 16, when the Irish beat Nebraska in a matchup of the top two seeds in the region. Nothing the Cornhuskers have seen in the Big 12 will prepare them for McGraw’s four-guard offense. 
The Irish run ends in the Final Four. Notre Dame lacks depth in the post. An almost certain meeting with Stanford should exploit that weakness. 

Jared Jedick 
Prediction: Notre Dame loses to Connecticut in championship game 
Notre Dame’s depth will help them easily roll past their early opponents, Cleveland State and likely Wisconsin, but once they meet a team that can match their bench, things will get a lot more difficult. It all comes down to how well freshman Sklylar Diggins can play in her first ever NCAA tournament. If she turns it on and consistently produces 20 points a game the Irish could challenge to reach the cham­pionship game, where juggernaut Connecticut will await for a fourth time. If she cannot, it will be an early exit for Notre Dame. 
I see a Skylar Diggins ready to take that next step and begin to build her legend. Expect Notre Dame to gain early momentum at home and carry that all the way to the championship game, topping Big 12 sweetheart Nebraska and powerful Stanford along the way. The championship game is another story. 
The Observer 

Scene
Friday, March 19, 2010 page 13 


By CAITLIN FERRARO 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Director Rick Famuyiwa’s “Our Family Wedding” adver­tises itself as an ensemble romance dramedy with a promising premise and strong cast. Unfortunately, the film does not find success due to an overabundance of main characters, clichés and con­trived situations. 
Newly engaged Lucia (America Ferrara) and Marcus (Lance Gross) must meet each other’s parents for the first time and tell them that they plan to get married, but this normally joyous occasion is complicated by the fact that Lucia is Mexican and Marcus is Black. Lucia’s grandmother is especially dismayed. Furthermore, Lucia’s father Miguel (Carlos Mencia) and Marcus’s father Brad (Forest Whitaker) already hate each other due to a prior run-in. 
The families take control of the wedding, making it all about them instead of their children’s love. The motto they make the kids reiterate is, “Our Marriage, Their Wedding.” And these charac­ters do make everything about themselves. Lucia’s mother (Diana Maria Riva) wants to make it her dream wedding, while the egotistical men argue simply to argue. 
The racial tensions are a bit over the top and continue throughout the film, quickly becoming annoying. Cross-cul­tural marriages can be diffi­cult, but Carlos and Brad’s issues stem mostly from an encounter over a towed car. While this culture clash could have being interesting, it sim­ply isn’t and you find yourself wishing they would realize that it is 2010 and move on. After all, the characters are inherently good people, they just come from different back­grounds. 
Another fault of the film is that Lucia, Marcus, Miguel and Brad all have significant storylines that the film attempts to follow. Lucia dropped out of law school and is hiding that information from her father, causing ten­sions with Marcus, who wants her to tell the truth. Meanwhile, Miguel is having marital woes because he pays more attention to his rebuilt cars than to his wife. Divorcé Brad is a ladies’ man with a best friend (Regina King) who is quietly in love with him. 
Each storyline could be wor­thy on its own but due to the length of the film, they cannot all be explored properly, leav­ing the audience with under­developed characters and a lack of empathy for the woes in their lives. 
What little time the film had left was spent on silly gim­micks. An electronically con­trolled overflowing bathroom in one scene — not funny — plagues Miguel. The old men get drunk and are arrested for fighting — not funny. A wild goat (already ridiculous) wreaks havoc after consuming Viagra — definitely not funny. 
These scenes make the film stale, old and oddly familiar. “Our Family Wedding” seems to have cut scenes from other films of a similar vein and pieced them together. There is nothing fresh or original about this film, making it highly pre­dictable. 
The actors did their best with an average script. Ferrara is cute as a young woman trying to escape her role as daddy’s little girl. Plus, it is always nice to see her without her “Ugly Betty” braces. Gross, a relative new­comer, is charming and hand­some as Marcus. As the young couple, Ferrara and Gross are the best part of the film. They are sweet and endearing, leaving you to root for them to make it and survive their fam­ilies’ wacky antics and inces­sant bickering. 
Mencia, a great stand-up comedian, does a good job balancing a loving but pesky father. However, Forest Whitaker, an Oscar winner, is just awkward as a womanizer. Whitaker is an accomplished actor but he fails to be a con­vincing lothario. Also, his seri­ous moments while discussing love and marriage with his son fail mostly due to poor writing. 
“Our Family Wedding” is watchable but not enjoyable. By the end of the film, you just wish Lucia and Marcus had eloped. Save yourself and don’t R.S.V.P. to this wedding. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar1@nd.edu 



JACLYN ESPINOZA | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Friday, March 19, 2010 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Murray State shocks Vanderbilt on fnal shot 
Villanova survives overtime scare from Robert Morris; Brigham Young outlasts Florida; Saint Mary’s upsets Richmond 
and Miles scored 17 for the Mezie Nwigwe’s off-balance 3 at 
Associated Press 

Racers, who shot 7 for 15 from the buzzer was no good. 
SAN JOSE, Calif. — Murray long range and crashed the offen-The Northeast Conference State coach Billy Kennedy went sive glass to create second champion Colonials left the court with his gut and drew up a play chances. They held a 39-33 to a standing ovation — even his team had never run before, rebounding advantage — 15 of from Villanova’s mascot. with Isacc Miles the go-to guy at those offensive boards. The Wildcats, trying to reach the end. their second straight Final Four, 
Third option Danero Thomas Villanova 73, Robert Morris 70 entered having lost five of seven became the hero instead. (OT) and were a surprising pick for the 
Thomas hit a 15-footer as the Scottie Reynolds learned a les-No. 2 seed in the South Regional. buzzer sounded and 13th-seeded son starting the game on the Murray State stunned No. 4 seed bench. BYU 99, Florida 92 (2OT) Vanderbilt 66-65 on Thursday in Once in the game, he delivered When Jimmer Fredette planted an NCAA tournament opener in a teachable moment of his own to a seed with Florida’s Chandler the West Regional. 15th-seeded Robert Morris: Don’t Parsons before their NCAA tour­
“That shot was bigger than he let a Final Four-tested team like nament game, he couldn’t have could imagine,” Murray State’s Villanova off the hook. known it would sound prophetic. 
B.J. Jenkins said. “It wasn’t just a Reynolds was benched, his shot The BYU star told Parsons, the game-winning shot. We’ll remem-wasn’t falling and his Wildcats only Gators player to ever hit two ber this for the rest of our lives.” were on the brink of having their true buzzer-beaters to clinch vic-
President Barack Obama must NCAA tournament run end in the tories, “no game winning shots have been onto something picking biggest of upsets. He responded tonight.” these revved-up Racers (31-4) to with a clutch performance at the Fredette went on to score 37 get past the first round. It was the foul line in the final minutes of points and hit two 3-pointers in school’s first victory in the NCAA regulation, and No. 2 seed double overtime to seal the tournament since a 78-75 win Villanova survived a scare from Cougars’ 99-92 win over 10th­over North Carolina State in Robert Morris in a 73-70 over-seeded Florida on Thursday, the in 2006 and 2007. side of an NCAA tournament 1988. time victory Thursday in the first time they’ve reached the sec-BYU snapped a streak of seven upset this time, and Saint Mary’s 
For the second time in as many NCAA tournament. ond round of the tournament in straight first-round losses in the is moving on for the first time in appearances, Vanderbilt (24-9) “I always think we’re going to 17 years. tournament while ending more than 50 years. bowed out early as the higher win, I always think we’re going to Parsons, meanwhile, missed Florida’s 12-game NCAA winning Omar Samhan had 29 points seed. The Commodores were also find a way,” coach Jay Wright potential game-winners at the streak. It’s the Cougars’ first win and 12 rebounds despite spend-a first-round upset victim by said. end of regulation and the first since 1993, and they haven’t gone ing most of the game in foul trou-Siena in 2008 when seeded Trailing 55-47 with 4:19 left in overtime, and Fredette didn’t let farther since 1981, when Danny ble, and Saint Mary’s pulled away fourth. the second half, Reynolds Florida get another chance for a Ainge was on the team. from Richmond to win 80-71 on 
Murray State, the mid-major attacked the basket and led a dramatic finish. Next up is a second-round Thursday in the first round of the that came in with a dismal 1-13 fearless rally from the free-throw “We had a second life, or a game Saturday against No. 2 seed South Regional. all-time NCAA tournament line. His reliable stroke was third life, or whatever it was, and Kansas State, an 82-62 winner It was the first NCAA win for record, will play again Saturday absent, but he never stopped hus-I just wanted to go out there and against North Texas. Saint Mary’s in six tries since at HP Pavilion against Butler after tling in the second half, and try to get it done because I don’t “This was a long time in coming 1959. The 10th-seeded Gaels (27­it beat UTEP 77-59. Reynolds’ sliding save of a loose know if I could have played for our program, and it’s a big 5) will play Saturday against 
Jermaine Beal made two free ball at Robert Morris’ end led to another overtime,” said Fredette, win,” said Rose, who was suc-Villanova, a No. 2 seed that throws with 12.7 seconds left to two free throws that cut the lead the nation’s 12th-leading scorer. cessfully treated for pancreatic escaped from the first round with give Vandy the lead. B.J. Jenkins to 55-51. Fredette made a 3-pointer from cancer last June. “One of the a 73-70 overtime victory over missed a rushed 3-pointer on the The Colonials (23-12) coughed the top of the key to put seventh-most important goals we had at Robert Morris. other end, but the ball went out of up the ball again, Reynolds was seeded BYU (30-5) ahead 90-83 the start of this season was to get Mickey McConnell, the West bounds off a Vanderbilt player fouled again and he delivered with 2:42 left, then added another into this tournament and Coast Conference tournament with 4.2 seconds left to give again on both attempts from the from the right wing with just over advance, and we’re advancing. MVP when the Gaels upset Murray State the final shot. line and it was 55-53 with 2:10 a minute remaining to put the I’m proud of our guys.” Gonzaga in the title game, went 5 
When it went down, Murray left. game away. Boynton rallied the Gators in for 9 from 3-point range and State’s players sprinted to the Robert Morris committed their Fredette surpassed the 30-point the second half with a series of scored 23 points. Thanks to in other end of the floor and fell into 21st turnover and — notice a pat-plateau for the eighth time this four 3-pointers, the last one put-large part to Samhan, a 6-foot-11 a celebratory pile beneath the tern? — fouled Reynolds. Two season and the third straight ting Florida ahead 71-68 with senior, the Gaels held a 40-18 basket. Vandy star A.J. Ogilvy more from the line and it was tied game, coming off 45-and 30-2:36 left in regulation — their rebounding edge, outrebounding slumped to the floor in defeat, 55-all with 1:48 left in regulation. point performances in the first lead of the second half. Richmond 19-13 under their own while his teammates crouched All those missed jumpers — Mountain West tournament. After Vernon Macklin missed basket for a 21-4 advantage in near their bench in utter disbe-Reynolds was 2 of 15 from the Michael Loyd Jr. added a one of two free throws in the final second-chance points. lief. floor — seemed forgotten. career-high 26 points, pushing minute, Fredette was able to tie it David Gonzalvez scored 18 and 
“This is probably the biggest “He is a live-by-the-sword, die-BYU to a lead it would hold until at 75 on a layup with 25.3 sec-Kevin Anderson had 16 for shot I’ve ever hit in my life,” said by-the-sword kind of guy,” Wright a late second-half rally by onds left. Richmond (26-9). The Spiders Thomas, who wound up with 11 said. “And I’ll die by his sword Florida. Loyd also scored all six of Parsons missed a jumper from have won NCAA tournament points, six rebounds, three steals any time because we’ve won so the Cougars’ points in the first the right side of the lane in the games as No. 12, 13, 14 and 15 and three blocked shots. “It felt so many. Even when he was missing overtime and hit a 3-pointer to closing seconds, and Jonathan seeds but, playing as a favorite good, I knew it was going in.” them, I was saying, ‘If that’s how start the second overtime that put Tavernari missed the backboard for the first time in school history, 
Vandy knew it could happen. we’re going to go down, I’ll go BYU ahead to stay. entirely with a heave from failed to make it out of the first The Commodores have been in down with him any time.”’ “He was ready and his number beyond halfcourt after the round. this tough position before. The Wildcats (25-7) weren’t was called and he came through Cougars called timeout with half Samhan scored 17 points with 
“This is what happens in March going down. They’ll play 10th-for us,” coach Dave Rose said of a second left in regulation. seven rebounds in the first half, Madness,” freshman guard John seeded Saint Mary’s, which beat Loyd, who had been averaging Parsons also missed a 3 in the despite spending the last 6:31 on Jenkins said. “I didn’t think it was Richmond 80-71, on Saturday. 4.6 points and reached double last minute of the first overtime the bench with three fouls. He going to happen and I had no Karon Abraham scored 23 for figures just five times. and Dan Werner missing an awk-had 27 and 11 when he picked up doubt we were going to win that Robert Morris, which was on the Kenny Boynton scored 27 ward volleyball-style tap off a his fourth foul with 9:13 left and game. We had a hand in his face, brink of becoming only the fifth points for the Gators (21-13), busted play after Fredette had Saint Mary’s leading 59-50; he sat and it was a tough shot.” No. 15 seed to beat a No. 2 and helping to rally them from a 13-dribbled into Boynton’s hands. down and didn’t return for six 
B.J. Jenkins hit a key 3-pointer the first since 2001. Abraham let point second-half deficit in their minutes. with 2:51 to play and finished fly a 25-footer in OT that cut it to first NCAA tournament game Saint Mary’s 80, Richmond 71 But his absence didn’t slow with 14 points and five assists, 71-70 with 10.2 seconds left, but since back-to-back national titles Richmond was on the wrong down the Gaels. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Looking for someone to rent the ATTN: Grad Student-faculty. Summer Camp Counselor for chil-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do If you or someone you care about upstairs of my home. Spacious 2-bdrm, 2.5 bath home, dren w/disabilities. Must have not go it alone. has been sexually assaulted, weNOTICES Quiet Mishawaka neighborhood, LR, DR, FR, Florida Room. Fenced strong work ethic and be interested can help. For more information, visit 
$450 a month, includes all utilities. yard, 2-car garage. Security. Near in making a difference in the life of Notre Dame has many resources in Notre Dame's website: Find OFF CAMPUS HOUSING-Call 250-8278 for details. ND. a child. place to assist you. http.csap.nd.edu most within 1.5 miles of campus. ——————————————— ——————————————— 
gradrentals.viewwork.com 262-332-0015. $10-$15.25 hr., 35 hr/wk, summer If you or someone you love needs Welcome to campus, Shivani. ——————————————— only. confidential support or assistance, ——————————————— 
www.CampusHomesOnline.com For rent: Furnished 4 bedroom please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 My bracket’s busted already. Guess house 5 blocks from campus. Off 5 sites in Summit County, Ohio. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. that’s what I get for picking Notre street parking, security system, Must enjoy outdoor activities. Dame to make it to the Sweet central air. Nice. For more information, visit ND's Sixteen.
FOR RENT Cleaning By Maria 954-657-1898 Visit www.akroncyo.org to down-web site: ——————————————— 
Only $350.00 a month each. Call Homes, Apartments, Offices load an application from the “Austin, you can come — but only if gradrentals.viewwork.com 574-289-4071. Affordable and Relaible Careers link. EOE http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu you bring Taylor.” ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ———————————————-——————————————— 
PERSONAL 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Friday, March 19, 2010 
page 15 

Men’s Division I Track and Field USTFCCCA 
team previous 
1 Florida 1 2 Oregon 3 3 Texas A&M 9 4 Arizona St. 4 5 LSU 5 6 Texas Tech 7 7 Minnesota 6 8 Arkansas 2 9 Florida St. 8 10 Virginia Tech 15 11 Nebraska 10 12 Indiana 13 13 New Mexico NR 14 Penn St. 17 15 Oklahoma 19 16 California 11 17 Auburn 14 18 Georgia NR 19 Northern Arizona 11 20 Stanford 16 21 Arizona 18 22 Baylor NR 23 Kentucky NR 24 Texas NR 25 Mississippi NR 
Men’s Division I Baseball USA Today/ESPN Coaches Poll 
team  previous  
1  Arizona St.  3  
2  Virginia  4  
3  LSU  1  
4  Georgia Tech  5  
5  Florida St.  2  
6  Texas  6  
7  Clemson  7  
8  TCU  9  
9  Louisville  11  
10  UCLA  13  
11  Flordia  8  
12  Coastal Carolina  10  
13  Oklahoma  15  
14  Miami (Fla.)  14  
15  Arkansas  16  
16  Vanderbilt  20  
17  North Carolina  12  
18  Oregon St.  18  
19  Mississippi  17  
20  Kentucky  22  
21  Alabama  25  
22  Rice  19  
23  Texas A&M  NR  
24  UC Irvine  24  
25  Kansas St.  NR  



around the dial 
NCAA Men’s Basketball 
11 Minnesota vs. 6 Xavier 
12:25 p.m., CBS 

12 New Mexico St. vs. 5 Michigan St. 
7:00 p.m., CBS 
MLB 


Washington admits to drug use as player 
Associated Press 

SURPRISE, Ariz. — A day after acknowledging he failed a drug test for cocaine last year, Texas Rangers manager Ron Washington admits he used marijuana and amphetamines while he was a player. 
“When you’re young you make mistakes,” Washington said Thursday. “I wish I could take back some of the mistakes I may have made, but I can’t.” 
Rangers general manager Jon Daniels said Washington would keep his job. He said the team was aware Washington used drugs. 
“There’s a distinction between what people do in their youth vs. later in life,” he told a group of reporters, according to the Web site of the Fort Worth Star-Telegram. 
“I’m sure there are things in our past we’re not proud of. Ron could have avoided the question or lied and chose not to. I’m not going to punish him for being honest. That doesn’t excuse the behavior but that’s reality,” Daniels said. 
Washington made his lat­est admission before Texas played against Milwaukee on a practice field. 
On Wednesday, Washington said he tested positive for cocaine in a Major League Baseball test last July. He told Rangers management and MLB about the cocaine — he said he used it only once — before the test result and offered to resign. Texas president Nolan Ryan and team man­agement allowed him to keep his job. 
Washington did not detail how often he used marijua­na and amphetamines, or describe what kind of amphetamines he took. The 57-year-old Washington played 10 seasons in the majors, mostly as an infield­er for Minnesota in the 1980s — a decade when cocaine and amphetamine use in the majors was not uncommon. 
Washington said his mis­takes from years ago have nothing to do with the issue he’s facing now. 
“I made mistakes in my younger days,” he said. “I want to get past it, move for­ward and get back on the field and start winning.” 
All-Star third baseman Michael Young said what Washington did as a player was a non-issue in his eyes. He said discussion about amphetamine use among players in the 1970s was a “slippery slope.” 
“We’re hopeful this will bring us together, and we can rally around each other a little more,” Young said. “Asking about adistraction, it’s a fair question. But it’s not relevant in this club­house. We have a solid group of guys in here and they’re not going to judge somebody on a mistake and not on their worst moment.” 
IN BRIEF 

Ducks’ Wisniewski sus­
pended for 8 games 
TORONTO — Anaheim Ducks defenseman James Wisniewski has been suspended for eight games with­out pay on Thursday for delivering a hit to the head area of Chicago Blackhawks defenseman Brent Seabrook. 
The incident occurred at 2:22 of the second period during Wednesday night’s 4-2 win by Anaheim. Wisniewski was assessed a minor penalty for charging. Seabrook suf­fered an injury on the play. 
Wisniewski, who was suspended two games on Oct. 31, 2009, is considered a repeat offender under the terms of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. He will forfeit $268,292 in salary. 
“Mr. Wisniewski delivered a retalia­tory hit to the head of an opponent who never had possession of the puck,” said Colin Campbell, NHL Senior Executive Vice President of Hockey Operations. 
Running Back Bryce 
Brown to leave Tennessee 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. — Tennessee coach Derek Dooley says running back Bryce Brown has left the Volunteers’ program. 
Dooley says Brown told him Thursday, the first day of the Vols’ spring practice, that he was dealing with personal and family problems. Brown was not present for practice. 
The Wichita, Kan., native averaged 
38.3 yards in 12 games as a freshman in 2009. 
Brown was one of the top recruits in the nation in 2009, and the NCAA investigated whether money was improperly raised for Brown to visit colleges while in high school. Neither Brown nor Tennessee, who was not recruiting him at the time, were pun­ished. 
Dooley says Brown will remain enrolled at Tennessee for the rest of the spring semester. He did not indi­cate if he would then transfer. 
Report: 49ers cutting ties 
with GM McCloughan 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. — The San Francisco 49ers are cutting ties with general manager Scot McCloughan because of personal issues, according to several reports. 
AOL FanHouse reported Thursday that the move is based on a personal matter and is not related to team issues. 
ESPN, citing anonymous sources, reported later Thursday that the 49ers are giving McCloughan an extended leave of absence and also referred to him dealing with personal issues. 
McCloughan told FanHouse via text message, “I’m fine and moving for­ward.” The Fanhouse report said he would not elaborate. 
If McCloughan departs, the timing is highly unusual for the 49ers’ top per­sonnel executive since 2005. San Francisco has two picks in the first round of the draft, which is just five weeks away. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, March 19, 2010 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Baylor holds on for frst Dance win since 1950 
Bears get past pesky Sam Houston State; Butler uses explosive second half to play spoiler to UTEP’s upset bid 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — Baylor coach Scott Drew’s postgame locker room chat with his team dragged on longer than usual before he emerged — behind schedule — to discuss as big a victory as many Bears fans can remember. 
“Sorry I’m late. We haven’t won a tournament game in a long time,” Drew said. “I know there are happy players in there.” 
It had been six decades since Baylor last won an NCAA tourna­ment game, but Ekpe Udoh did everything the Bears needed to stave off upset-minded Sam Houston State and end the drought. 
Udoh had 20 points and 13 rebounds, and Baylor dominated the last three minutes of a 68-59 victory Thursday in the first round of the South Regional. 
“Oh, man, just joy in my heart, man,” Udoh said. “But, whew, that was close. Sam Houston, that’s a great team. … It’s tourney time. You’ve just got to be ready.” 
Udoh also had five assists, two blocks and two steals for the third-seeded Bears (26-7), who were tied with less than 4 minutes remaining before pulling away for their first NCAA tournament win since beating BYU in 1950. 
Baylor moves on to play Saturday against 11th-seeded Old Dominion, a 51-50 winner over No. 6 seed Notre Dame earlier Thursday. 
“Really, the game was pretty simple: Get the ball to Ekpe,” Drew said. “He’s got 20 and 13, 9 for 16 (shooting), let him either create for somebody or let him score. When we did more and more of that, things got easier and easier.” 
LaceDarius Dunn scored 13 points for Baylor, 10 in the second half. His short, spinning fade and one-handed jam fueled a late 8-0 run that clinched it. 
Gilberto Clavell had 23 points and Preston Brown added 13 for 14th seed Sam Houston State (25­8), which tied it at 55 on a short floater by Ashton Mitchell with 
3:48 to go. 
The game remained tied until Quincy Acy dunked with 2:30 left to spark Baylor’s decisive surge and put the Bears ahead for good. 
“We knew once Quincy got a dunk or did something crazy on the floor, it would get all of us going,” Dunn said. 
Acy and Anthony Jones both fin­ished with 10 points for Baylor. 
Sam Houston State kept the game close with a triangle-and­two zone defense that BearKats coach Bob Marlin installed with idea of keeping the ball away from Baylor’s explosive backcourt of Dunn and Tweety Carter. It worked for most of the game. 
“We had the game right where we wanted it with 4 minutes to go and had the basketball, had an opportunity to get a lead, and it didn’t happen,” Marlin said. “Our defensive game plan was good the entire ballgame. Our guys fought hard.” 
Baylor players said they were unfamiliar with the triangle-and­two — effectively man-to-man coverage on the guards and a zone inside — and had trouble adjusting. 
“We were just shocked. We never faced nothing like that,” Dunn said. “When we got out there and faced them we were like, ‘Wow, what are we going to do?’ So it just took us time to calm down.” 
Butler 77, UTEP 59 
Shelvin Mack’s second-half surge helped Butler to keep the nation’s longest winning streak intact. 
Mack hit a career-high seven 3­pointers and scored 18 of his 25 points after halftime Thursday, leading fifth-seeded Butler to a 77­59 victory over UTEP in the first round of the NCAA tournament’s West Regional. 
“It’s a great opportunity to do it on this stage,” Mack said. “You’ve got to knock it down like it’s open gym.” 
Gordon Hayward added 13 points and Matt Howard had 11 as the Bulldogs (29-4) won their 21st straight game to extend the sport’s longest active winning streak — but only after a dynamic rally from a six-point halftime deficit. 
The Miners (26-7) were a popu­lar NCAA upset pick after the Conference USA power received a surprisingly low seed in the tour­nament. Instead, the Bulldogs made a 22-4 run after halftime led by Mack, who hit five 3-pointers in the first 11 minutes. 
Butler advanced to face 13th­seeded Murray State, which sur­prised Vanderbilt 66-65 on a buzzer-beater by Danero Thomas. 
Derrick Caracter had 20 points and nine rebounds for UTEP, which won 16 straight games and a league title before a tournament loss to Houston last Saturday. Randy Culpepper added 16 points, but the Miners’ defense couldn’t stop the patient outside shooting of the Bulldogs, who advanced in the NCAA tournament for the third time in four years. 
Butler, which hit 10 of its 13 3­pointers after halftime, has the longest winning streak in Division I this season. The Bulldogs made a perfect run through the Horizon League, winning every conference game before also winning the tournament to capture a No. 5 seed in the NCAAs, matching the highest in school history. 
UTEP was nearly as impressive during its run through Conference USA, with Caracter and league player of the year Randy Culpepper largely dominating. But the Miners lost the tournament title game last Saturday, and coach Tony Barbee acknowledged being mystified by their low seed. 
While the Miners talked about respect, Butler went out and claimed it — just as these Bulldogs have been doing for decades. 
Butler immediately took control after halftime, with Mack hitting two 3-pointers in the first 90 sec­onds. The Bulldogs took the lead on a 3-pointer by Veasley, and after UTEP briefly went back ahead 37-36, Veasley’s free throw started Butler on its decisive 13-0 run. 
Culpepper also went down hard twice in the second half on colli­sions under the basket, getting up gingerly both times. 
The Shark Tank was still hop­ping with energy from the Racers’ upset of Vandy when Butler and UTEP took the court. Butler didn’t repeat the mistakes of last year’s trip to the tournament, in which the Bulldogs fell behind 9-0 in a first-round loss to LSU, but UTEP still went ahead 17-10 midway through the first half. 
Butler, which has all five starters back from last season’s tourna­ment team, reclaimed the lead with nine consecutive points, but the Miners went back ahead with strong inside play from Caracter. 
The 275-pound Louisville trans­fer with a bushy mohawk scored 12 points— including a layup that dropped in just before the halftime buzzer, while leading UTEP to a 33-27 lead. 


Friday, March 19, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Hot-shooting Bobcats take down Georgetown 
No. 14-seed Ohio pulls off upset for the ages by blowing out perennial power and No.3-seed Hoyas in stunning result 
Associated Press 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. — How about a standing O for Ohio! 
The MAC champion Bobcats, who had a losing record in con­ference play, have found their way in March and now boast an NCAA tournament win for the first time in 27 years. 
Georgetown might want to skip the tourney next time it’s in Providence. 
Armon Bassett scored 32 points to lead the 14th-seeded Bobcats to a convincing 97-83 win over the Hoyas in the Midwest Regional. 
In early March, no one expected Ohio (22-14) to be in this position. The team had just finished a 7-9 season in Mid-American Conference play and entered the conference tournament as the ninth seed. 
Four wins later, Ohio was in the 65-team field. 
Forty minutes later, the Bobcats are in the second round. 
Coach John Groce wouldn’t call it the biggest win in team history. 
“I certainly think it’s one of them,” he said. “What it does more than anything is it gives belief in our guys in what we’re doing.” 
Ohio seized the lead early on its 3-point shooting and never had a serious letdown the rest of the way. The Hoyas (23-11) made a small run in the second half that cut a 19-point lead down to seven. 
No worries. D.J. Cooper, who scored 23 points, nailed a 3 to the delight of all those green-clad fans who made the trip and cheered them on the whole way. The Bobcats cruised from there and now have won six straight games. 


Ohio joined Murray State, which knocked off Vanderbilt 66-65 at the buzzer, as the two big upset winners Thursday. 
“There were some times when the only people that believed in what we were doing and where we were going where the guys in the locker room and the adminis­tration,” Groce said. 
Chris Wright led the third-seed­ed Hoyas (23-11) with 28 points. Georgetown coach John Thompson III said a day earlier his team was playing their best basketball of the season. It cer­tainly didn’t extend into the tour­nament opener. 
The Hoyas looked sensational in winning the first three games of the Big East tournament, before losing to West Virginia in the championship, and appeared to have positioned themselves as a legitimate Final Four threat. 
It wasn’t to be. 
“We really thought we could make some noise in this tourna­ment,” Georgetown guard Austin Freeman said. “We really didn’t imagine we would be one-and­done.” 
The Hoyas had a rough time in Providence back in 1989, too, when they narrowly beat No. 16 seed Princeton 50-49. At least they won in ’89. 
This time the Hoyas were flus­tered and frustrated throughout. When Greg Monroe was on his back after being whistled for an offense foul, he pounded the court in disbelief and anger. 
Monroe had 19 points and 13 rebounds, and Hollis Thompson scored 16 points. 
Bassett, the MAC tournament MVP, made it look easy. After a 3­pointer made it 39-26, he just turned toward the crowd with a shrug and smiled. 
Ohio led by 12 at halftime and kept on rolling against the Big East power. Cooper picked Georgetown’s Jason Clark clean, sprinted toward the basket and tossed the ball backward high over his head where a streaking DeVaughn Washington slammed home the alley-oop in the play of the game. 
The Bobcats have something to show for a turbulent season. They opened conference play with four straight losses, lost one player for the season with a broken hand and Washington was suspended five games for team violations. Groce even kicked a player off the team. 
“I’m excited for our guys with everything they’ve been through,” Groce said. 


page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, March 19, 2010 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Saint Mary’s ready for doubleheader 
By KEVIN BALDWIN 
Sports Writer 
After splitting a doubleheader with Goshen Tuesday, the Belles are ready for another doublehead­er Saturday at Manchester College. 
Saint Mary’s started the day with a decisive 4-2 victory, but could not repeat their success in the second game, which the Maple Leafs won 5-3. 
In the first game, the Belles came back from a 2-1 deficit. Saint Mary’s bats came to life in the fifth inning when they scored two runs to take the lead after a series of clutch base hits. With the support of the defense, including a solid performance on the mound by sophomore Monica Palicki, the Belles were able to hold off Goshen for the win. 
Palicki pitched the entire game, closing with seven strike outs, one walk and not giving up any earned runs in her fourth win of the sea­son. Seniors Maureen Healy and Sara Montelongo and sophomore Kristen Nelson each went 2-3 in the game. Healy had a pair of RBIs while Montelongo had a RBI and a run. 
Despite a good defensive effort from the Belle’s in the second game, the team was unable to produce at the plate and many times left runners stranded at the end of an inning. 
The second game saw the Belles unable to keep up with the Goshen scoring drive after scoring three runs in the bottom of the fifth. But Belles coach Erin Sullivan was happy with her team’s overall per­formance. 
“Our pitchers both had good days,” she said. “I was very happy with Kristen Nelson. She has been really hot at the plate lately and continued to help make things happen for our team on offense. Maureen Healy and Sara Montelongo came up with some key hits for us as well.” 
Healy was responsible for bat­ting in the two winning runs in the fifth inning of the first game while Nelson batted in Montelongo in the seventh inning to seal the win. 
“The hitters were thinking too much at the plate. Goshen’s pitch­er wasn’t throwing exceptionally well, but she kept our hitters guessing. We also let the umpire’s liberal strike zone affect us in a negative way. It took too long for the team to start hitting in the sec­ond game,” Sullivan said. 
This week, the team has sharp­ened their game in preparation for Manchester. Sullivan said she sees it as a prime opportunity for the Belles to continue the improve­ment they have shown throughout the season. 
“I think we have more confi­dence, but we’re still trying to find ourselves,” Sullivan said. “What’s great about that though is we haven’t peaked yet, so I’m hoping we will peak near the end of the season when we need it most.” 
The Belles will travel to North Manchester, Ind. to take on the Spartans in a doubleheader begin­ning at 1 p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles team eager to take revenge Saturday 
By JOHN HELMS 
Sports Writer 
After a successful 4-1 trip over Spring Break, the Belles will take to the court again Saturday, trav­eling across the state to take on Indiana Wesleyan. 
Saint Mary’s (6-2) is looking to avenge last year’s loss to the Wildcats. “It can be slightly intimi­dating playing a team that has beat us previously, but I think everyone feels very confident that we have improved immensely since last year,” top singles player Jillian Hurley said. “I think if everyone can go into their match­es with a positive attitude and a strong drive to win then who beat whom last year won’t matter.” 
Belles coach Dave Campbell said his team will come out with a chip on its shoulder, using the loss from last year as motivation. 
“We need to use that as motiva­tion and expect to play our best against them,” he said. 
The team will also look to build off the momentum from Spring Break. The team traveled to Orlando, Fla., and performed at a high level throughout the trip. The Belles defeated Wartburg, 8-1, St. Francis, 9-0, Ursinus, 9-0 and Carthage 5-4. Even their one loss was close, falling 5-4 to a different Wesleyan. 
“I think overall the team is feel­ing good about our wins over Spring Break. Winning the majori­ty of our matches definitely boost­ed our confidence going into our regular season,” Hurley said. “The momentum is definitely going to carry over as we head towards our match this Saturday.” 
Now the team will look to take their progress a step further. 
“I think we go into every match expecting to succeed, and this match is no different. However, because we did so well over Spring Break, our expectations to do well in this match are even higher,” she said. 
The Belles play on the court has been helped by their bonding off the court. Thanks in large part to the Orlando trip, the girls are gelling as a team at the right time. Their play and team chemistry on the court is noticably improving as a result. 
“I think as a team we are not only improving on the court, but also off of the court. Our team really bonded over Spring Break, which has affected our overall team spirit and drive to succeed,” Hurley said. 
Saint Mary’s will face Indiana Wesleyan in Marion, Ind., Saturday in an 11 a.m. match. 
Contact John Helms at jhelms2@nd.edu 


Friday, March 19, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish have multi-hit effort 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish hit their way to an easy 13-4 win over Western Michigan Thursday as sopho­more Kristina Wright led with four of the team’s 17 hits, including a home run. 
Five Notre Dame players recorded multi-hit efforts for the day, including senior infielder Christine Lux’s grand slam. Lux also had a game-high five RBIs for the day while Wright added two runs and three RBIs. 
“She had the bases loaded and hit a grand slam for our first four runs of the game,” Irish assistant coach Kris Ganeff said. “From there, we 
thought we had the game under con ­trol.” 
And they did. Notre Dame (17 -5) dominated from both the plate and the mound. Besides Wright and Lux’s per ­formances, junior Sadie had two RBIs and was one of 4) gave up seven earned runs four Irish players to score and seven hits in three twice. innings. 

“Each of the hitters did Ganeff felt that the Irish 
what we needed them to do,” Ganeff said. “Kristina Wright was on fire tonight.” 
Seven of Notre Dame’s runs came in the fourth inning of the six -inning contest. The Broncos (8 -5) trailed the Irish 11-0 going into the bottom of 

“I think we came out there with a great mentality.” 
Kris Ganeff Irish coach 
went into the contest with a positive mind­set that defi ­nitely helped in gaining their fourth straight win. 
“I think we came out there with a great m e n t a l i t y, ” Ganeff said. “On defensive we played solidly. Jody 
the fourth but got one run in that inning, adding three more in the fifth. Western 

“Each of the hitters did what we needed them to do.” 
Kris Ganeff Irish coach 
Mi chig an’s Gracie Barstad and Kayla Houston each had two RBI. 
Junior Jody Valdivia (13-2) kept the strike­
outs coming from the mound with 11 and giving up only one earned run on three hits in 
5.2 innings. She had a much did a great job with 10 strike­outs. Our hitters did a good job against all three pitch­ers.” 
Notre Dame saw this game as giving it a strong leap into the second half of their sea­son as they draw closer and closer to the Big East tourna­ment. 
“This game started the sec­
ond phase of the season,” Ganeff said. “It set the tone for what we expect to happen in the rest of the season up through the Big East Tournament.” 
The Irish will open their home season Tuesday against Eastern Michigan with a dou­bleheader beginning at 4 p.m. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saint,arys.edu 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Notre Dame looking to rebound outdoors 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
The No.4 Irish look to rebound as they start their stateside outdoor schedule at No.17 Vanderbilt after losing to then-No.7 Duke on outdoor courts in Puerto Rico over Spring Break. 
Vanderbilt (7-4) is coming off of a loss to Georgia at home March 14. Irish coach Jay Louderback said he believes Vanderbilt will challenge his squad as they adjust to the outdoor sched­ule. 
“They lost to Georgia, but they also beat a ranked team in Tennessee,” Louderback said. “With them, you’re talking about a team that’s coming off a bunch of close matches that they lost. They’re always a top-20 team that plays well and more importantly plays well outside.” 
The Irish (12-2) split two games in Puerto Rico over the break, defeating William and Mary 5-2 and losing to Duke by the same score. After playing their entire schedule to this point on indoor courts, the Irish are still adjusting to the outdoor slate and the match against Vanderbilt will be a big test as they look to improve. 
“It’s big playing against a good team outdoors,” Louderback said. “Starting off we are 1-1 outdoors, and we didn’t really play that well against Duke. We need to show that we can be a good outdoor team.” 
Sophomore Kristy Frilling, who has led the Irish with a 12-2 mark at No. 1 singles and holds a No. 14 national ranking, will face off against a tough opponent in fellow sophomore No. 24 Jasmine Wu. However, it is likely the doubles that will set the tone for the match. 
While the team of Frilling and senior Kali Krisik has been flawless all season, the Nos. 2 and 3 doubles teams will need to elevate their play and secure the doubles point. 
“On the road it’s impor­tant to get up in the dou­bles,” Louderback said. “Our first team has been playing real well, but we’ve got to get our second and third teams a little more consistent.” 
The Irish will square off against the Commodores at the Brownlee O. Curry Tennis Center in Nashville today at 2:30 p.m. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
Pitzenberger, senior Heather Johnson and sophomore Alexa Maldonado each had at least two hits against the Broncos. Junior Katie Fleury better day than the three Western Michigan pitchers, none of whom gave up fewer than two earned runs. The Broncos Meredith Whitney (2­


page 20 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, March 19, 2010 Friday, March 19, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
Spartans 
continued from page 24 
and moving the defense around.” 
This game is the last tune­up for the Irish before open­ing the first season of Big East lacrosse. The seven-team 
Georgetown and Villanova. 
Before the th ree-game Spring Break trip, Corrigan said the Irish needed to begin improving against top-tier competition before the Big East season started. 
“We’re not going to wait [to get better] until Big East play 
Terriers 
continued from page 24 
focused on.” 
In their wins, the Terriers have averaged nearly 12 goals per game, but in their two losses they have scored only slightly more than five. If the Irish maintain strong defen­sive performances the way they have so far this season, the goals will come on offense and a victory should follow. 
The Irish have continually starts,” he said. “We are try­ing to improve before the next game.” 
In order for Notre Dame to continue to improve for each game, it must prepare for a versatile Ohio State attack. 
“[Ohio State has] a lot of different guys who can hurt 

conference “We are trying to includes four 
improve before the
top-25 teams in Notre Dame, next game.” defending champion 
Kevin Corrigan 
Syracuse, 

Irish coach 
you,” Corrigan said. “Their attack has always scored a lot for them. Even though there are starting two freshman on it this year, that continues ... We ’ve got to keep them out of the transi­tion goals, the easy goals.” 
Notre Dame hosts Ohio State at 1 p.m. Saturday as they look for their second win at the new Arlotta Stadium. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
gotten contributions from sophomore attack Maggie Tamasitis, junior midfield Shaylyn Blaney and senior attack Gina Scioscia, but Coyne will need more diversity than those three in the scoring department. 
In what should be a high scoring affair, the Irish will face off against Boston University Saturday at 12 p.m. at Nickerson Stadium in Boston. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
BASEBALL 
Irish ready for home opener 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish are set to host their season home opener this weekend when they meet Michigan State for three games over two days in Eck Stadium. Saturday features an early afternoon double-header followed by the rubber match on Sunday. 
“They are a very well-coached team, that is first and foremost,” Irish coach Dave Schrage said. “I think that they are probably the most improved team in the Big Ten this year, and they really have a chance to challenge Ohio State for the Big Ten title.” 
Schrage said that his team is enjoying the warm weather and getting some good prac­tices in, and the matchup against the Spartans (9-4, 0-0 Big Ten) gives the Irish an advantage that he appreci­ates. 
“Yeah, it is always good to play at home,” Schrage said. “I think we have always had a nice record there at home. It just feels more normal to you, and the surroundings are familiar. You always play more relaxed and a little bit better. So we are excited to get our home season underway.” 
The Irish (7-8) will need that home-field advantage, as they had a rough 2-4 weekend and have gotten off to a slow start this year. 
“I think that our team is still a little bit of a work in progress, and we just need to get out and keep playing,” Schrage said. “I think the fact that we were able to play so many days in a row was very beneficial to us, and now with good weather we have been able to get out and have some good practices.” 
Notre Dame will send sopho­more left-hander Steve Sabatino and junior right-han­der Brian Dupra to the mound on Saturday, and senior right-hander Eric Maust will get the starting nod on Sunday. 
Sabatino is pitching well for the Irish in his second season with the team, posting a team-low 3.32 era and 16 strikeouts in his 19 innings pitched this year. Maust has yet to earn a decision this year, but he is tossing a respectable 5.19 era in 17 and 1/3 innings pitched. 
The real standout lately in Schrage’s mind is Dupra who holds a 4.91 ERA and has recorded 17 strikeouts. Schrage said Dupra is throw­ing the ball better now than he has ever seen him do. 
“I feel like he has had his two best pitching performanc­es since he has been here,” Schrage said. “I have been very, very pleased. He found his new pitch this year, a split-finger fastball that coach Dangler has worked with him on, and I think that has been a big reason for his success. He is throwing the ball hard, he always has, but now he is get­ting his off-speed over and that has been what’s getting all the swings and misses.” 
Leading the offense so far this year for the Irish has been senior first baseman Casey Martin. Martin is leading the team in all the major offensive categories with a .434 batting average, 11 runs, 23 hits, three home runs and 16 RBIs. 
“[Casey] is leading us in just about every offensive catego­ry, and he is off to a great start,” Schrage said. “He has driven in some big runs, he supplied a lot of power, he has a great batting average and he has been playing good defense at first base. He has definitely been our leader all the way around from an offensive standpoint.” 
Schrage said he is worried about the Spartan’s two-pronged pitching attack in AJ Achter and Kurt Wunderlich. 
“I think they have two of the better starting pitchers as far as one-two combination,” he said. 
The first game of the dou­bleheader is scheduled for 
12:05 p.m. Saturday, with the second game to follow. Sunday’s game is set to start at 1:05 p.m. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, March 19, 2010 
Offense 
continued from page 24 
No. 6 seed Notre Dame struggled through scoring droughts of 6:07 and 7:03 in its 51-50 loss to No. 11 seed Old Dominion Thursday. Notre Dame led at the half but shot 31 percent from the field in the second half and made only two 3-pointers. 
The strategy worked in the first half, when Notre Dame cut and moved the ball rapidly. In the second half, the ball stayed on the perimeter of the zone and year, and he’s taken them there six times in his 10 years as head coach. He reached the Sweet 16 with Chris Thomas in 2003 before falling to No. 1 seed Arizona, so he has the acumen to lead the team deep­er into the field. Slowing the offense down, which began in February against Louisville, no doubt created the opportunity for the Irish, who were 6-8 in conference play at one point, to reach the Tournament in the first place. 
It doesn’t need to go, it just needs an addition. In a one-
and-done set­
ting, the slow, 
burn-the-shot­
clock offense 

finding a good “Hit a couple of needs a second shot became gear. Another 
outside shots and we
harder. When di mension
couldn’t hold on to the 
Notre Dame had would also a good look, it lead for long enough.” allow the Irish didn’t fall. to draw more 
Part of the fouls by pene-
Luke Harangody 
problem trating and 
Irish forward 
stemmed from forcing contact 

the Monarchs’ stifling of senior forward Luke Harangody, who scored four points, all in the final 13 seconds of the game. He finished 2-of-9, as the Monarchs used a zone that kept the Irish big man from getting going. 
Notre Dame has the shooters to shoot over the zone on a good day. Senior guard Ben Hansbrough hit three 3-point­ers and junior forward Carleton Scott made two. But junior for­ward Tim Abromaitis, who shot 44 percent from 3-point range but had struggled in the Big East tournament, was 0-for-5 from 3-point range. 
“Tonight wasn’t our shooting night,” Hansbrough said. “And they made a couple of really nice plays. Hit a couple of out­side shots and we couldn’t hold on to the lead for long enough.” 
It can’t be that the team does­n’t know how to play against an effective 2-3 zone, because it plays Syracuse every year. Single-elimination games, how­ever, can take a sound blueprint and turn it on itself. Notre Dame’s slow offense, played out over a long period of time, will net the Irish more wins than losses. But in a single-iteration setting, it can subject the Irish to dangerous — they shot three free throws against Old Dominion. 
Notre Dame showed it was comfortable taking its time and winning games close — the 50­45 win over Pittsburgh in the Big East tournament quarterfi­nal is a perfect example. It also showed it can score, when it dropped 78 on Georgetown on the road. The second dimension to the offense lay dormant Thursday. 
“We turned it over and a cou­ple of easy transition opportuni­ties,” Brey said. “When we take those, I was hoping we could be better.” 
Brey said that next season, he might balance the offensive style more to allow for quicker possessions. 
“That’s probably because we have slowed down,” he said. “We haven’t done them as much. We’re not as good at them. I thought about this a lot thinking about next season, I think there is a balance point there with tempo.” 
Whether it comes in the form of quick cuts to the basket, more penetration or shooting on the first look, another dimension to the burn offense 
that Notre Dame could execute well would benefit 
the team, espe­

“We haven’t done 
scoring gaps cially in Big and runs by the [quicker possessions] East dogfights opponent. as much. We’re not as — or elimina-
good at them.” 
Irish went 24-8 game planning and finished will only get the fourth in the Mike Brey team so far. The Big East, no Irish coach shots, whether 
small feat in such a tough conference . That was not a bad team. It had a 3-point shooter in Colin Falls, post play­ers in Harangody and Rob Kurz and an athletic guard in Russell Carter. It just happened to lose a crucial game, in the first round to No. 11 seed Winthrop, not a tragedy in college basket­ball —unless you’re in the Tournament. Single elimination 
— even good teams fall victim to it. Ask the four No. 2 seeds who lost to No. 15 seeds in the Tournament history, or No. 4 seed Wake Forest last year. 
Irish coach Mike Brey has built the Irish into a team with a shot at the Tournament every with 28 seconds 
on the shot 
clock or four, 
need to fall. 
“You can talk about getting into the gap. You can talk about hitting the short corner. You can talk about hitting the foul line,” Brey said. “Eventually, to beat a team that’s going to sit in that [zone], you’ve got to make some shots, two or three in a row, to kind of change the cli­mate. We could never do that.” 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


Monarchs 
continued from page 24 
gave the Monarchs their final lead, 48-46, with 1:27 remaining. Harangody missed a jump shot on Notre Dame’s ensuing possession, and Lee made 1-of-2 from the line on Old Dominion’s next possession to extend the lead to three with 56 seconds to play. 
Harangody’s first basket, a put-back off an offensive rebound, cut the Irish deficit to one with 12 sec­onds remaining. Monarchs for­ward Keyon Carter made a pair of free throws with nine seconds to play and, after a Notre Dame time­out, Scott barely missed a 3 from the baseline that would have tied the game. Earlier, with 1:49 remaining, Scott answered a Darius James 3-pointer to tie the game, 46-46, and break a six-minute scoring drought for the Irish. 
“Those guys made a lot of clutch 3s,” Carter said. “So I thought it was going to be another scenario. I was kind of thinking overtime, but gratefully it rimmed out. Little help from above, I guess. Divine intervention a little bit.” 
After Scott’s jumper from the free-throw line put Notre Dame up 30-22 nine seconds into the sec­ond half, the Irish were held score­less for more than six minutes, as the Monarchs rattled off a 9-0 run to take their first lead, 31-30, since early in the first half. A layup by Scott put the Irish back up one with 13:46 to play, and neither team led by more than four points the rest of the way. 
“I think it reflects the magic of March, the way the two teams bat­tled,” Monarchs coach Blaine Taylor said. “One of the officials turns to me at the two-minute mark and said, ‘It’s been a heck of a game,’ and I really think it was.” 
Senior guard Ben Hansbrough, who will return for a fifth year, led all scorers with 17 points on 7-of­13 shooting. Scott posted 14 points and 10 rebounds and was Notre Dame’s lone scoring threat near the basket, as Harangody was held to four points — all in the final 12 seconds. 
“He got the two fouls and I thought he could never really get into a flow,” Brey said of Harangody. “Also, when you’re playing against zone for long peri­ods of time, it’s probably a little harder to establish him, you know, offensively.” 
The Monarchs led 6-5 five min­utes into the game, but the Irish used a 10-0 run over the next five minutes to open a 15-6 lead. Old Dominion quickly responded with a 7-0 run of its own to cut the deficit to 15-13, but a 3 by Scott, a three-point play from junior for­ward Tim Abromaitis and a transi­tion layup by Hansbrough sparked another 8-2 spurt for the Irish, who then led 23-15. Keyon Carter made Old Dominion’s first 3 of the game with 18 seconds to play in the half to cut the Notre Dame lead to 26-22, and an Abromaitis jumper closed the half with the Irish up 28-22. 
Notre Dame outshot and out-rebounded the Monarchs in the first half. Old Dominion was 10­for-29 (34.5 percent) from the field and 1-for-8 (12.5 percent) from 3­point range in the first half. The Irish held a 21-14 rebounding edge at intermission while shoot­ing 11-for-27 (40.7 percent) from the field and 4-of-14 (28.6 percent) from 3-point range in the opening half. 
But in the second half, the Monarchs heated up while the Irish cooled down. Old Dominion made 52.6 percent of its field goals in the second half and knocked down 4-of-10 3-point attempts. Notre Dame shot 31.3 percent from the field and made only 2-of­12 3-pointers in the second half. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


Friday, March 19, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Friday, March 19, 2010 page 24 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

One and done 

Brey’s offense not able short in first round 
Irish fall one point to burn fast enough 
NEW ORLEANS — Notre 
By MATT GAMBER 
Dame’s slow-burn offense 
Sports Writer 

burned just a touch too slow. The strategy works, especial-NEW ORLEANS — A pair of six­
ly with the personnel Notre minute scoreless droughts in the 
Dame has: second half doomed No. 6 Notre 
good ball-Dame as the Irish fell to No. 11 Old 
handlers Dominion, 51-50, in the first round 
who can all of the NCAA Tournament Thursday. 
pass and The Irish (23-12) made just 6-of­
three legiti­26 3-point attempts, including 2-of­
mate 3­12 in the second half. Junior for-
point ward Carleton Scott’s game-tying 3­
threats. It point attempt rimmed out in the 
spreads out final seconds, and senior forward 
opposing Bill Brink Luke Harangody’s put-back at the 
defenses, buzzer left the Irish a point short of 
opens drive 
Senior Staff
lanes and the Monarchs (27-8), who will 
Writer

with the Saturday against No. 3 Baylor. 
advance to the second round 

ball in the “It just sounds so simple, but we 
hands of had some really clean looks. You’ve 
Notre Dame’s guards, who can got to make some shots,” Irish 
find the open shooter, it creates coach Mike Brey said. “We’d been a 
good shots. good shooting team. It’s not like I’m 
The strategy works — but saying something the percentages 
when it doesn’t, it can’t be the say we can’t do or haven’t done.” 
only option. A jumper by center Gerald Lee IAN GAVLICK/The Observer 
Senior guard Tory Jackson walks off the court upset after Notre Dame’s 51-50 loss to 
see OFFENSE/page 22 

see MONARCHS/page 22 Old Dominion in the first round of the NCAA Tournament Thursday. 



MEN’S LACROSSE 

Team looks for another win 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
The Irish opened Arlotta Stadium in style Tuesday with a 14-7 win over Denver and they now look to continue this success in their new home Saturday against Ohio State. 
No. 9 Notre Dame (4-2) vis­ited the Buckeyes last year at The Horseshoe on the day of Ohio State’s spring football game. In front of the largest attendance in NCAA lacrosse history, the Irish captured a 14-8 win behind junior mid­fielder Zach Brenneman’s four goals. 
After Brenneman scored three in Tuesday’s victory, Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said the team needs to keep playing as it has been. 
“We’re looking to continue to improve, and play smart against a team that is always very athletic and very crafty with the ball,” Corrigan said. 
In the victory over Denver, senior midfielder Grant Krebs and sophomore attack Sean Rogers also tallied hat tricks. 


MAGGIE O’BRIEN/The Observer Irish players celebrate Tuesday’s 14-7 win over Denver to open the home season at Arlotta Stadium. 
Corrigan said the offensive outburst was a team accom­plishment. 
“The fact that you had three guys do it means it was more about the team than it was about the individual. When your team is playing good offense and creating opportunities, than a lot of people have opportunities to contribute,” he said. “That means you’re moving the ball, moving people around 
see SPARTANS/page 21 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish head to Boston for first trip since 2006 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
The season is young, but the No. 9 Irish have already experienced their fair share of adversity. After a disap­pointing loss to No. 16 Dartmouth and a come ­from-behind 14-12 victory over California, the Irish (4­
1) will look to build a win­ning streak against No. 11 Boston University Saturday. 
This will be the first trip to Boston for the Irish since they made the Final Four in 2006, when they lost to Dartmouth. 
The unfamiliar Terriers (4-2) should prove to be a formidable opponent for the Irish. They already have wins over Massachusetts, Brown, William & Mary and Harvard. 
“[Boston] is a solid team all around, ” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. “I expect and tough and physical game.” 
Although the matchup is a nonconference, non-region­al game, showdowns with nationally -ranked oppo ­nents such as the Terriers are crucial not only for seeding teams come NCAA Tournament time but also for building steam leading into conference play. 
“This game is an opportu­nity to prove to ourselves what we can accomplish this season,” Coyne said. “It’s going to be an exciting matchup.” 
The Irish will need to improve upon areas that have caused them trouble the last two games in order to beat the Terriers. Coyne said she was slightly disap­pointed with the play of the attack during the games against Dartmouth and California. But those possi­ble weaknesses have been the focus this week in preparation for Saturday’s game. 
“Things came to light in the game against California, 
see TERRIERS/page 21 







