Cover Illustration by Blair Chemidlin 

page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Friday, May 14, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 
We are prepared 
My entire college experience has been defined by my work at The Observer. One of my freshman year roommates was reminiscing the other day, and remembered how excited I was to have my first article on the front page, and how late I stayed in the office to earn a measly $10 paycheck. 
It wasn’t about the money, though. It was about being involved with some­thing important, about being part of a group. I think in high school we all had several of those places, teams and clubs that gave us that feeling. And even though at Notre Dame we call each other part of the same fami­ly, it was so nice to have a smaller part of that family to grow close with. 
Working at The Observer has not been the easiest job. I couldn’t go five minutes without checking my e-mail, without making sure I knew everything that was going on, without having the feeling that I was in control of what was going on at the paper. 
What I’ve learned, however, is that no matter how hard you try, it’s impossible to be in control of everything. I couldn’t be in control of when the University announced President Obama would speak last year at Commencement; I couldn’t be in control of every word, cartoon and photograph that printed in the paper. I’ve realized these things now, but while I was in the moment I was stressed and sleep-deprived. 
Though I can’t turn back time to relive the excitement of the freshman with her first article on the front page and approach my career at The Observer dif­ferently, I can take the lessons I’ve learned here with me in my next steps in life. I think they are lessons that can help several of the members of the Class of 2010, especially those with uncertain futures. 
No matter what happened, we still got a paper out everyday. We couldn’t control everything, but in the end, it all worked out. Other aspects of my Notre Dame education have contributed to this out­look: the sense of family here — no mat­ter what happens you will have people you can turn to for help — and the strong faith shared by our classmates that guides our decisions. We can’t control the future, but after attending Notre Dame, we are prepared to face whatever happens next. 
I would like to thank The Observer and the wonderful staff I’ve worked with over the years for teaching me that. I would like to thank my parents for agreeing to send me to a school so far away and encouraging me to calm down when I am too stressed. I would especially like to thank the friends I’ve made here, that I’m able to reminisce with, for making the last four years truly unforgettable — no mat­ter what the future holds. 
Jenn Metz is a senior from Westfield, N.J., graduating Magna Cum Laude with a double major in English and Romance Languages and Literature and a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. She served as Editor-in-Chief of The Observer from 2009-2010. She will be working at ABC News in Manhattan. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 



CommencementtobeheldinStadium 

University changes location of ceremony, adds departmental diploma ceremonies 

By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
Last year, graduating sen­iors could bring only three guests to Commencement. This year, some students will have as many as 60 family members and friends present when they graduate as a result of the University’s deci­sion to move the Commencement ceremony to Notre Dame stadium. 
“Parents from each year would say, ‘It’s really hard on us to have so few guest tick­ets for such an important event and can you please do something about that?’” University Registrar Harold Pace said. 
As a result of the change, seniors can have an unlimit­ed number of guests, and their guests will be able to sit together in the stadium — something that would not have been possible in the Joyce Athletic Center. 
Commencement had been held in the Joyce Center since 1969, but the Center’s recent renovations made seating limited and sparked the deci­sion to change locations, Pace said. 
“We were already down to three or four tickets per fam­ily. We didn’t feel like that’s where we needed to go in the future,” Pace said. “We decided with this renovation that it was the year that we needed to make formal rec­ommendation to move to the stadium.” 
Pace estimated that 25,000 people will attend the cere­mony Sunday, a substantial increase from the 9,000 that attended in the past. He said the crowd is expected to fill half the stadium. 
The large bulk of the crowd will be guests, Stephanie Maenhout, senior administra­tive assistant for the Office of Registrar, said. 
Approximately 22,000 guests are expected to attend, with students bring­ing an average of eight guests each, she said. 
“The responses that I got were wonderful. It was like yes, I really do have that many family members com­ing. The one has 60 coming,” Maenhout said. “We think it’s wonderful.” 
Pace said there will be two large screens broadcasting the ceremony in the stadium, as well as a broadcast in DeBartolo Hall for those who wish to be inside. 
Commencement was last ceremonies sep­arate from Commencement. 
“What hap­pened in the past was gradu­ating students would go to the field house and faculty were there to distrib­ute the diplomas to them, but not in ceremony,” Pace said. “They would actually 
Commencement holding their diploma in hand.” 
Assistant Registrar Lora Spaulding said this method of diploma distribution was missing a key element. 
“What was lacking there was the individual recogni­tion,” she said. 
Eighteen diploma cere­monies, separated by depart­ment, will take place across campus Sunday afternoon. 
Pace said the decision to implement diploma cere­monies also came in 
“We were already down to three or four tickets per family. We didn’t feel like that’s where we needed to go in the future.” 
Harold Pace University registrar 
walk into 
it will be held at 9 a.m., Pace said. 
The addition of diploma ceremonies, which needed to occur Sunday afternoon, con­tributed to the time change, Pace said. 
“We really ruled out having a University ceremony on Saturday because some fami­ly members might not have been in town,” he said. “The other factor is since it is out­doors, there are fewer thun­derstorms in the morning than in the afternoon.” 
In the event of rain, the said. 
An addi­tional change this year will be the time of the ceremo­ny, Pace said. 
Previously, the ceremo­ny was held Sunday afternoon, but this year ceremony will proceed as planned. If the weather is severe —lightning, high winds or heavy, persistent rain — the ceremony will be moved to the Joyce Center. A message will be sent to grad­uates’ cell phones via the ND Emergency Alert System, Pace said. 
Each graduate is allotted three guest tickets if the cer­emony is moved to the Joyce Center, but severe weather will not affect the number of guests who can attend the diploma ceremonies in the afternoon, Maenhout said. 
Pace said the decision to move Commencement to the stadium will be a long-term change. 
“It is our location moving forward,” he said. 
Spaulding said she thinks the change will be a positive one. 
“There is no other venue that can handle the number of people that come,” she said. “I think the students are excited about being able to graduate in the stadium.” 
Students can pick up guest tickets today at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMLIDIN I Observer Graphic 
held in the stadium in 1959. Commencement has also pre­viously been held at the Grotto, University Mall, Stepan Center and Washington Hall. 
In addition to the change in Commencement location, the University will hold diploma response to parent and stu­dent feedback. 
“We had requests from parents saying that would be really nice if they could actu­ally see their student receive their diploma in hand and we felt that was an important part of the weekend,” Pace 

Friday, May 14, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Seniors pleased with selection of NBC anchor Brian Williams 
Students say host of Nightly News provides insight and experience without controversy of Obama invitation 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Associate News Editor 
University President Fr. John Jenkins selected the host of NBC Nightly News Brian Williams — a journal­ist who has said he does not even tell his wife who he votes for — to deliver the 2010 Commencement address. 
Jenkins ’ decision to invite Willi ams comes on the heels of last year’s controver ­sy over President Barack Obama’s invitation to deliver the address, and seniors say they are pleased with this selection. 
“I think Notre Dame made a good selection, ” senior Nicholas Dan said. “I’m glad there is no drama about the speaker.” 
Dan said he was initially disappointed at not having a speaker with the gravitas of the president of the United States, but he said this changed when he learned more about Williams and his career. 
“When the Commencement speaker was first announced, I was fairly unimpressed,” he said. “But ward to hearing what he has this year ’s speaker is not Thapa said she is impressed after some reflection, I think to say.” controversial because it by Williams’s looks. he will do a good job. Jenkins said he was very keeps the focus on the cele-“He is handsome and hope-Reporters have a wide vari-happy the University was bration of the fully he’ll have ety of experi -able to secure seniors instead something res­ences, and a speaker with of on the onating to say,” speak for a liv-the stature of speaker.” “I’m glad that I won’t she said. 


“I liked him on 30

ing. I’m sure Williams. Dan and have to worry about Thapa said he will be Rock, so I approve.” “Mr. Williams Ruehl mann she really 
the firestorm that

interesting.” is one of this also said they wished one of 
existed last year.” 

A l t h o u g h country’s most were very Williams’s NBC 
Keith Ruehlmann 

some Notre respected and happy there c o -w o r k e r s
senior

Dame seniors trusted jour -would be no could have 
Keith Ruehlmann 

said they are nalists, and we drama this given the 
senior 

not devotees of are absolutely year. address. any nightly news program, delighted that he has accept-“I’m glad “I really wish senior Keith Ruehlmann said ed our invitation,” Jenkins that I won ’t Alec Baldwin, he knew of Williams from said in a press have to worry Tina Fey or Amy Poehler his humorous appearances release. “He about the would ’ve been selected, ” 
on 30 Rock and The Daily has tremen -“Mr. Williams is one firestorm that she said. “I have the utmost 
Show. dous insight of this country’s most existed last confidence that one of them “I liked him on 30 Rock, so into the cur -y e a r , ” would have delivered the 
respected and trusted

I approve,” he said. rent state of R u e h l m a n n speech of a lifetime.” 
Ruehlmann said although our world, and journalists, and we said. “Williams Williams is the seventh he is sure Williams’ address I know his per-are absolutely was clearly a anchor of the NBC Nightly will contain the same mes-spectives will conservative News and has reported on 
delighted that he has

sages as speakers in the be of great choice based events such as Hurricane past, he is confident that his interest to our accepted our off of what Katrina, the death of Pope experience as someone who graduating invitation.” transpired last John Paul II and the war in has traveled the world and Class of 2010.” year, but I Iraq. He is a member of the met numerous heads of state When he think everyone Council on Foreign 
Fr. John Jenkins 

would make the heard Williams from our class Relations in New York and Commencement speech would deliver University President expected our on the Board of Directors of memorable. the address, speaker to be the Congressional Medal of 
“I’d imagine it ’ll be the senior James far less contro-Honor Foundation. same ‘go out and change the Redden said he was glad versial. I wasn’t wowed by He received his under ­world, you are the future’ there would be no contro -the selection, but at the graduate degree from talk, but as someone who versy at Commencement this same time, I’d rather have George Washington has made a career out of year. that than protesters on the University and then studied covering the news around “I am not disappointed outskirts of campus and at the Catholic University of the world, I think he’ll be in that Brian Williams is the planes flying overhead.” America. a unique position to offer speaker,” he said. “I think While some were insight from his experience,” he will be engaging and impressed by Williams’s cre-Contact Joseph McMahon at he said. “I’m looking for -entertaining. I am glad that dentials, senior Priyenka jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, May 14, 2010 




FOUR YEARS IN REVIEW 
Friday, May 14, 2010 The top Observer news stories from the 2006-2010 academic years page 5 



Obama speaks at Commencement 
May 17, 2009 
After months of controversy, President renew its promise; that we align our deepest that out of 345 Letters to the Editor authored Barack Obama delivered the University’s 164th values and commitments to the demands of a by students, 74 percent were in favor of the Commencement Address, asking graduates to new age,” he told the Class of 2009. invitation and 29 were against Jenkins’s deci­seek common ground on abortion and other University President Fr. John Jenkins invited sion. divisive issues facing the country. Obama to speak at Commencement and In an interview with The Observer, Jenkins 
Obama acknowledged the controversy sur-receive an honorary degree in March of 2009 said he was “honored” when Obama accepted rounding his visit to campus and noted the — a decision that sparked protests from stu-the University’s invitation. irreconcilable differences in the abortion dents, alumni and groups unaffiliated with the “Presidents from both parties have come to debate. University. Notre Dame for decades to speak to graduates 
“Your class has come of age at a moment of The student group ND Response formed days about our nation and our world,” Jenkins said. great consequence for our nation and the after Jenkins’ announcement, staged demon-“They’ve given important addresses on inter-world — a rare inflection point in history strations and submitted a petition to Jenkins national affairs, human rights, service, and where the size and scope of the challenges criticizing his decision. we’re delighted that President Obama is con-before us require that we remake our world to Yet a count by The Observer in April showed tinuing that tradition.” 


Five students die during past four school years 

Senior Caitlin Brann, 22, Timothy Aher, a student in 

died in a car accident after the Law School ’s London 

her tire blew out on the Programme, died at his resi-Indiana Toll Road in dence in Ilford. Aher was 
November 2006. More than from Brookfield, Conn. 
200 students gathered a day Andrew Bunikus, a junior 
later at the Grotto to pray from Zahm Hall, died in a 
and sing in her memory, and bus crash in Thailand on 
Brann’s friends called her “a April 18, 2008. He took a 
spark of fire.” semester off to teach English 
Brann was a marketing to students in Thailand. major from Orland Park, Ill. Sophomore Kevin Healey, 
Three students died in un-20, died April 24 after a bat-related cases in 2008. tle with bone cancer. He was Connor McGrath, a sopho-a resident of Sorin College. more in Siegfried from Healey was diagnosed with Oklahoma City, passed away osteosarcoma in December on Feb. 17 in Dillon Hall. He of 2006. Friends said intended to major in busi-Healey’s courage was inspir­ness. ing. 


page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 14, 2010 

Poet Dana Gioia will receive Laetare Medal 

By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
Dana Gioia, poet and for­mer chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), will receive the Laetare Medal, the University’s highest honor, during the 2010 Commencement ceremony on May 16, the University announced in a press release March 14. 
The Laetare Medal is the oldest and most prestigious honor given to American Catholics and is awarded annually to a Catholic “whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the Church and enriched the heritage of humanity,” the University press release said. 
Mary Ann Glendon initially accepted the Laetare Medal last year, but then declined the honor after hearing the University would award an honorary degree to President Barack Obama. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said last year’s events did not affect the selection process this year. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins commended Gioia’s commitment to both faith and culture. 
“In his vocation as poet and avocation as arts administra­tor, Dana Gioia has given vivid witness to the mutual flour­ishing of faith and culture,” Jenkins said in the release. “By awarding him our University’s highest honor we hope both to celebrate and participate in that witness.” 
Gioia is the second poet to receive the Laetare Medal. The University presented poet Phyllis McGinley with the medal in 1964. 
Gioia has published three collections of poetry, including “Interrogations at Noon,” which won the 2002 American Book Award. He also published eight smaller collections of poems, two opera libretti and many trans­lations of Latin, Italian and German poetry. 
He also has edited more than 20 literary anthologies and writes essays and reviews in magazines, such as The New Yorker, The Washington Post Book World and The New York Times Book Review and Slate. 

Gioia served as chairman of the NEA from 2003 to 2009. During his tenure, he sought to strengthen bipartisan sup­port for public funding of arts and art education, to champi­on jazz as a uniquely American art form, to pro­mote Shakespeare readings and performances nationwide and to distribute NEA grants more widely. 
In a lecture he delivered in 2000, Gioia said art and Catholicism work together because “the Catholic, literal­ly from birth, when he or she is baptized, is raised in a cul­ture that understands sym­bols and signs. 
“[Catholicism] also trains you in understanding the relationship between the visi­ble and the invisible ... Consequently, allegory finds its greatest realization in Catholic artists like Dante.” 
A native of Hawthorne, Calif., Gioia graduated from Stanford University in 1973. He earned a master’s degree in comparative literature from Harvard University in 1975 and returned to Stanford for his master’s of business administration in 1977. 
The Laetare Medal is named in honor of Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent and the day the University announces its recipient each year. The award was first given in 1883. 
Actor Martin Sheen was the last recipient of the Laetare Medal in 2008. Past recipients include operatic tenor John McCormack, President John F. Kennedy, Catholic Worker foundress Dorothy Day and jazz composer Dave Brubeck. 
This article orginally ran in the March 16 edition of The Observer. 

Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


Ninehonorarydegreesawarded 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
Notre Dame will award eight honorary degrees at this year’s Commencement in addition to the honorary degree it will give com ­mencement speaker Brian Williams, the University announced March 30. 
Williams, anchor of NBC Nightly News, will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree. 
The additional recipients come from a variety of back­grounds, including in educa­tion, engineering, law, phi­lanthropy and the Church. 
Steven Brickner, a leader in antibacterial drug develop­ment, will be awarded a doc­tor of science degree. Brickner’s research helped lead to the discovery of Zyvox, the first oral drug to treat penicillin -resistant strains of strep and staph infections. More than two million people have been treated with Zyvox since its creation in 2000. 
Scott Cowen will receive a doctor of laws degree. As president of Tulane University, Cowen has led Tulane to major growth in donations and student appli­cations. He also created a plan to rebuild the universi­ty’s facilities after Hurricane Katrina flooded 70 percent of its uptown campus and dis­persed all of its students in 2005. 
Archbishop Demetrios Trakatellis will also be awarded a doctor of laws degree. He was appointed primate of the Greek Orthodox Church in America and he previously taught Biblical studies at the Holy Cross School of Theology in Brookline, Mass. After the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, he presided at many memorial services and funer­als for the victims. 
The University will award Fr. Reginald Foster a doctor of laws degree. Nicknamed “the Pope’s Latinist,” Foster is considered an expert on the Latin language and has worked in the “Latin Letters” section of the Vatican for many years translating Church documents into Latin. In 2006, Foster founded a free Latin academy for English speakers wishing to learn the language or improve their Latin skills. 
MaryAnn Mathile, a top philanthropist, will receive a doctor of laws degree. She is the chief executive officer, board chair and treasurer of the Mathile Family Foundation. Mathile and her husband, Clayton, estab ­lished their foundation to support children and families in the Dayton, Ohio area. Among the foundation ’s largest gifts was an academic building at Saint Mary ’s College. 
Marc Maurer, a 1974 Notre Dame graduate, will receive a doctor of laws degree. Maurer, who was blinded by an overexposure to oxygen after birth, now serves as president of the National Federation of the Blind (NFB). Under his leadership, NFB has expanded its head­quarters and accelerated development of innovative education, technology, prod­ucts and services to facilitate the independence of blind people. 
Ted McCourtney, who grad­uated from Notre Dame in 1960, will receive a doctor of engineering degree. McCourtney was the lead partner of Venrock for 30 years. Venrock was an early investor in Apple Computer and the chip -maker Intel. McCourtney has also served on the University’s Board of Trustees and he remains an Emeritus Trustee. 
Cardinal Cormac Murphy-O’Connor will receive a doc­tor of laws degree. A native 
of England, Murphy ­O’Connor served as rector of the Venerable English College in Rome, was archbishop of Westminster and president of the Catholic Bishops Conference of England and Wales. Pope John Paul II made him a cardinal in 2001. His ministry is well known for his ecumenical work, the protection of human life and the rights of immigrants. 
In addition to these hon­orary degrees, the University will award the Laetare Medal, its highest honor, to Dana Gioia, poet and former chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) at the Commencement ceremony. 
Last year, much controver­sy surrounded the University ’s decision to award President Barack Obama with an honorary doctor of laws degree. Obama was the ninth U.S. president to be awarded with an honorary degree, a March 20, 2009, press release said. 
This article originally ran in the March 31 edition of The Observer. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


SMC awards Earle, Lowry 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Marine biologist Sylvia Earle will deliver Saint Mary’s 2010 Commencement address and receive an honorary doctor of humanities degree. Author Lois Lowry will also be receiving an honorary doctor of humanities degree at the ceremony. 
“It will be an honor to welcome Sylvia Earle and Lois Lowry to our campus,” Carol Ann Mooney, president of the College, said in a press release. 
According to the release, Earle has spent over 6,000 hours under­water. The New York Times labeled her “Her Deepness.” She led the first all-women team of aquanauts in 1970 and holds the record for the deepest solo dive. 
In September 2009, she pub­lished “The World Is Blue: How Our Fate and the Oceans Are One,” which discusses the need to protect out oceans and the work people need to do to keep them clean. 
“Doctor Earle is a passionate advocate for the survival of our planet,” Mooney said in the release. “Her work to save our oceans is legendary and I know our graduates will be inspired by her dedication to this important cause.” 
Earle has written more than 175 pieces relating to the global ecosystem, namely the ocean. 
She also made an appearance on the Comedy Central program “Colbert Nation” to convey her message on protecting the envi­ronment. 

According to the press release, Earle has established marine pro­tected areas across the globe. These include a 140,000 square-mile ocean home called the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands National Marine Monument, which contains more than 7,000 forms of marine life. 
Lowry, a young-adult fiction writer, has won Newberry Medals for her books “Number the Stars” and “The Giver.” She is also author of the “Anastasia Krupnik” series. 
“The majority of our graduates probably counted Lois Lowry’s books among their favorites when they were growing up,” Mooney said in the release. “We are delighted to be able to recognize her body of work.” 
Lowry said in the release that she works through her writing to “convey her passionate awareness that we live intertwined on this planet and that our future depends upon our caring more, and doing more, for one another.” 
Commencement will be held May 15 at noon on Le Mans Green. 


Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 

Friday, May 14, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 


Five rectors to leave atendofschoolyear 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 

University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh and several of the University’s first female grad­uates toasted to Class of 2010 valedictorian Katie Washington at Hesburgh’s birthday lunch Tuesday. 
Washington will address her classmates from her posi­tion as an academic leader during the Commencement ceremony Saturday. 
“I really hope that my class will reflect on the last few years in hopeful anticipation for what is next,” Washington said. “It’s a scary step, but I hope that we all choose to approach it with confidence and resolve, knowing that we have what it takes to affect the world.” 
Washington earned a 4.0 grade point average and will receive a degree in biological sciences with a minor in Catholic Social Teaching. 
After graduation, Washington will continue her academic career at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine in their Medical Scientist Training Program. This pro­gram will allow Washington to pursue a dual degree to open up paths in clinical medicine and medical research, she said. 
Washington said she is undecided about the exact field that she plans to enter after receiving her dual degree, but has enjoyed working in global health and infectious disease initiatives, as well as research on lung cancer. 
Wherever her education and research leads her, how­ever, Washington said health said. “Notre Dame professors care is her passion. are really great at helping 
“I’m hoping that by pursu-maintaining this perspec­ing my dual degree, my clini-tive.” cal interests and research During her time as a Notre interests can inform each Dame student, Washington other so I apply my combined was active with the Voices of 
s ki ll  se t  to  a  Faith Gospel  
problem  or  set  Choir, the sis- 
of problems in  ter-to-sister  
health care in a ne w w ay,”  “I feel so content and  pr o g r am at South Bend’s  
W a s h i n g t o n  overwhelmed with  Wa s h i n g t o n  
said. Washington’s  gratitude.”  H ig h and  Scho o l th e  
research expe­r ience has  Katie Washington  Ce nt e r S o c  i  for a l  
included work  valedictorian  C o n c e r n s ’  

at the Cold Spring Harbor labs and genetic studies in the University’s Eck Institute for Global Health on dengue and yellow fever, according to a University press release. 
“A lot of times, when I have found myself worrying about whether or not the work I do will matter for the big picture of global health care or to universal efforts towards social justice in general, I try to shift my frame of refer­ence to realize that there are people all over this University and the world who are work­ing just as hard as I am to find solutions to problems that matter,” Washington said. 
Washington said the classes and professors that she has encountered in her years at Notre Dame established her desire to give as much as she can, no matter how big or small, to her community. 
“I realize how blessed I am to be able to participate in a community of people who have similar goals, hopes and ambitions for the world,” she “Lives in the 
Balance: 
Youth 
Violence and Society Seminar.” 
Washington’s involvement in the Voices of Faith Gospel choir played an important role in her time here at Notre Dame, she said. 
“[Voices of Faith] has helped me to survive the stress and the pressures of different commitments that we all have here,” Washington said. “I’m hoping to find the same kind of out­let in the future.” 
Washington said saying goodbye to her home for the last four years will be “a healthy and exciting transi­tion.” 
“Notre Dame has really helped me to build a founda­tion in terms of my beliefs and hopes for my life and vocation that will stay with me throughout the rest of my life,” Washington said. “Right now, I feel so content and overwhelmed with grati­tude.” 


Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle@nd.edu 



By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
Although Linda Cirillo, rector of Lewis Hall, attended the University of Southern Califorinia, previously worked at Georgetown University and will now be living near Ohio State University, she said she will always be a Domer at heart. 
“If I had a choice today on which university I would I have gone to, Notre Dame would be the one,” Cirillo said. “Do not worry that I will start cheering for the Buckeyes. I really feel that I am a Domer.” 
Cirillo and several other rec­tors will leave their positions at the end of the academic year. Other rectors who will be leav­ing include Sr. Janet Stankowski of Walsh Hall, Fr. Jim King of Sorin College, Sophie Henrichs of Pasquerilla West Hall and Amy de la Torre of Cavanaugh Hall. 
Henrichs, who will leave the position of rector to get married, said she tried to keep a balance between allowing fun to occur and following University policies. 
“I think [being a rector] maybe has actually caused me to step up and really be a lot more responsible because any deci­sion I make just isn’t going to affect me,” she said. 
At the same time, Henrichs said it was a privilege to experi­ence “the randomness, the joy and the laughter” with her resi­dents. 
“Just letting the silliness hap­pen. The kind of conversations or bits of conversations I over­hear from my door, just the nor­mal everyday life of a student with relationships, friendships, giggles, quarter dogs,” she said, listing the things she enjoyed about being a rector. 
Cirillo, who is moving to Ohio to be a hospital chaplain, also said she will have fond memo­ries of her students. 
“I think the most important thing or the most enjoyable thing for me is to see my fresh­men when I came in as a fresh­men rector, now they’re gradu­ating as seniors and also I’m graduating,” she said. “That has been a lot of joy — to see them blossom and see them grow into young beautiful women that are mature and ready to go out into the world.” 
Both Cirillo and Henrichs said they will remember their partici­pation in dorm events after leav­ing the University. 
“It was my second year here and I allowed them to paint me up just like them and it was real­ly fun,” Cirillo said. “[It was] the Lewis pep rally for the football game. I allowed my chicks to paint my face, and I was part of the cheering group.” 
Henrichs also showed dorm pride when Pasquerilla West Hall was in the interhall football championship game and she dressed up as the dorm’s mas­cot. 
“I wore a weasel costume out onto the field,” she said. “I don’t think anybody else can actually say they’ve worn a weasel cos­tume down Library Quad and right into the tunnel of Notre Dame Stadium. A rector in a weasel suit.” 
King, who was the rector of Sorin College for seven years, said dorm life is integral to the Notre Dame experience. 
“I believe that Holy Cross’ model of residence hall ministry is the heart and soul of Notre Dame and the single most important explanation of why alumni feel as strongly about the University as they do,” King said. 
King will serve as Religious Superior for Holy Cross priests and will move to Corby Hall to take over his new position. 
Cirillo said her experience at Notre Dame will help her as a hospital chaplain, where she will specialize in end-of-life care. 
“Of course I’m very much drawn to Our Lady. I know she brought me here and I know she’s sending me forth,” Cirillo said. 
“I feel comfortable in saying that Notre Dame gives you the whole education. The mind, the body, the spirit, what it means to be alive and to be there for one another,” she said. “As I move into this next phase of my life, which is being present with peo­ple that are dying, I know that the dying phase of their life is part of living,” she said. 
“I will take all this love that I was given in the last four years and I’ll use that in my new posi­tion.” 

Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 



Valedictoriansayspassionishealthcare 

page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 14, 2010 

Seniors reflect on their four years under the Dome 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
Four years ago, the Class of 2010 arrived on Notre Dame’s campus, ready to make new friends and start a new life beneath the shadow of the Golden Dome. 
Now, as Commencement approaches, seniors say they are ready to move on but will miss the community they have found here on campus. 
“My favorite part of Notre Dame is the people I’ve met here,” said Jenny Heil, a sen­ior from Pasquerilla West Hall. “I’ve made phenomenal friends, and I’ll miss them all. I’ve gotten the chance to meet all kinds of people, and I’ll miss those faces you pass every day as well.” 
Pasquerilla West senior Lauren Demeter also said she will miss the community she has found at Notre Dame. 
“I don’t think the Golden Dome epitomizes Notre Dame. I think the group of people does,” she said. 
Senior Scott Andrews, a resi­dent assistant (RA) in Siegfried Hall, said his senior experi­ence was unique because of his ability to help build dorm community as an RA. 
“Being an RA was awesome because my last everything was my freshmen’s first every­thing,” Andrews said. “I got to be a senior but also relive everything that was exciting freshman year.” 
Andrews said dorm life is one of the things he’ll remem­ber most about Notre Dame. 
“Siegfried is only a cin­derblock building, but it’s home. I never thought I’d become attached to one place so much,” he said. 
Although students had mixed feelings about the end results of many football games, they said the sense of spirit Notre Dame students share is excep­tional, and cannot be found at other schools. 
“My favorite football memo­ry over the last four years was at the UCLA game in 2006. I’ll always remember that touch­down pass to Jeff Samardzija with seconds left in the game,” said Kevin Hurley, a senior from Dillon Hall. “I’ll definitely come back for games in the future. I plan on going to four games next year — two at Notre Dame and two in New York.” 
Andrews said Notre Dame football contributes to the overall college experience. 
“We have that class unity and camaraderie,” he said. “My single favorite football memory was the Michigan State away game either my sophomore or junior year. We won, and there was a roar [of cheering] you could hear all the way across campus. Now I could understand that for a home game, but for an away game that’s really something special.” 
Breen Phillips senior Nicole Overton said she will miss spending time studying what she loves and meeting others interested in the same subject. 
“I’m an anthropology major and I just love it,” Overton said. “Professor McKenna’s Intro to Anthropology Class really got me interested. In Human Osteology, I got to work with actual human bones. I love coming back and telling my friends about what I did in class.” 
Most students said they will not be sad to leave behind the gray South Bend sky, whipping wind across South Quad and endless months of snow and cold. 


Andrew Baroody, a senior in Siegfried Hall, said what he won’t miss about Notre Dame is “the weather.” 
He will, however, miss being so close to everything all at 
once — food, friends and entertainment. With friends next door and LaFortune Student Center a short walk away, Baroody said he thinks a Notre Dame student truly has everything he or she needs. 
At Notre Dame, dorm life plays a central role in a stu­dent’s social experience. But some seniors said they have made some of their deepest friendships through activities outside of the dorm. 
Demeter said she enjoyed trying out all kinds of clubs 



Strugglingeconomyaffectsjobmarket 
By AMANDA GRAY 
Assistant News Editor 
Even though the job market is challenging, Kevin Monahan, asso­ciate director of the Career Center, said he is optimistic for the graduat­ing senior class. 
“When students say ‘It’s a bad market,’ I say, ‘someone’s getting hired today. Why can’t that be you?’” Monahan said. “There are opportunities out there. You just have to be assertive.” 
But some students say the effects of the poor economy have hit them hard. 
Senior Jim Quiniff, an aerospace engineering major, said his field of study isn’t translating well to the job market. 
“A lot of people [in this field] did-n’t get jobs last year,” Quiniff said. “This leads to more competition. 
“Not a lot of companies are hir­ing.” 
Quiniff said he has been looking into the aircraft and space indus­tries and even though he’s been searching for a job since the begin­ning of the school year, he said he has only had two interviews. 
Senior Alex Bodewig, a manage­ment consulting major, said she also felt the competition for jobs. 
“I was looking for any job in busi­ness,” she said. “Consulting requires lots of travel time, so I’m not sure if I want that.” 
Bodewig is from El Salvador, which makes her job search more difficult, spanning two different countries. 
“It takes a long time to find a job listing you’re interested in,” Bodewig said. “It’s also hard when you don’t hear back. The waiting is rough.” 
She said professors and the Career Center have been urging students to keep applying. 
“They said the market is rough, but looking up,” Bodewig said. “There have been people getting offers the last couple of weeks. It’s very last-minute.” 
Bodewig, who has an upcoming interview but no job offers yet, said the economic state is hitting many graduating students hard. 
“Companies don’t have the money to hire,” she said. 
The Career Center is helping bring companies to students, at least virtually, Bodewig said. She said video conferencing is helping bring more interviews in because companies don’t have to pay for travel expenses. 
Monahan said the Career Center works with students in all stages of the job hunt to help them find a job that is right for them. 
“The Career Center meets stu­dents where they are in the process,” Monahan said. “We help with every aspect.” 
Graduating senior Kate Callahan said she used help from the Career Center to land a job at Nielsen, one of the biggest marketing research companies in the world. 
Callahan said she received her job offer at the end of fall semester, but that wasn’t the case for many applying for jobs. 
“In the fall, companies didn’t know where they would be in the spring,” Callahan said. “There was a lot more stress and pressure on students. 
Callahan said the job market has been noticeably more competitive recently due to the economy. 
“There are fewer jobs out there,” Callahan said. “There are fewer offers. It’s really competitive.” 
Yet Monahan said he saw a broad list of companies looking at students for possible employees. 
“Across the board there was broad interest,” Monahan said. “There were companies from film and public relations to the tradition­al corporate field.” 
The Career Center’s most suc­cessful year-long venture was alumni-student networking, Monahan said. 
“Students should embrace net­working,” Monahan said. “They are phenomenal resources to connect with people in many fields.” 
Despite the tough job market, Bodewig said she can see a silver lining. 
“I think a lot of people considered service or more school because of the tough market,” she said. “It forced people to consider other ven­ues for their passions. They could go for their calling.” 

Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
and organizations during her four years, and she said she did not dedicate all of her time to one particular extracurricu­lar. 
“There wasn’t one thing that I was involved in specifically,” she said. “That’s pretty typical of a Notre Dame student.” 
But Pasquerilla West senior Katie Matic said she devoted at least 20 hours a week to Mock Trial. 
“The best memory was our 12-hour bus ride to Memphis for Nationals this year,” Matic said. “Just all the laughing and fooling around. I’ll always remember that.” 
Leaving college, Matic said she knows she will also be leaving a tight-knit community that runs on its own schedule, a schedule she has gotten used to over the years. 
“It’s awesome living with your friends in college and enjoying the experiences that happen late at night, like going to get ravioli from the Huddle at two in the morn­ing.” she said. “I’ll miss that.” 
Seniors said they agree that while they will miss friends, the Notre Dame campus and power-walks to DeBartolo Hall, they are ready to move on to the next phase in their lives. 
“I’ll miss Notre Dame a lot, but I’m going to law school next year, ” Matic said. “I’m ready for the next step.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 



Students choose post-grad service 
By AMANDA GRAY 
Assistant News Editor 
Graduating senior Beth Neiman said the opportunity to volunteer after graduation just fell into her lap. 
“I heard about Americorps through the [Center for Social Concerns],” Neiman said. “I’ll be teaching at an Indian reservation.” 
Neiman is one of about 10 per­cent of seniors going into the volun­teer force upon graduation and one of five Notre Dame students who will be teaching on the same reser­vation. 
“This year-long program will give me time to decide what to do,” Neiman said. 
Neiman said she hopes the time she will spend volunteering will teach her life lessons. 
“This volunteering isn’t really in my field, but it will teach me good life skills,” Neiman said. “I’ll be more able to understand life.” 
She said the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) aided her search for a volunteering spot. 
“The CSC is so helpful in sending out lists. I applied to many different things,” Neiman said. “It was a lot of trial and error.” 
Michael Hebbeler, director of Senior Transitions at the CSC, said volunteer service can be beneficial because it is a way to learn more about the world before pursuing a more permanent career path. 
“Some students are pretty set on medical school, but they want to do some pretty meaningful work for a year, or they want to gain some sense of focus or direction with their work,” he said. 
Hebbeler said he sees volunteer service as in agreement with Notre Dame’s mission statement. 
“In the mission statement, there’s that line about service becoming learning and justice. We’re looking toward building a just world. This is a very hands-on, concrete way of doing it,” Hebbler said. 
Senior Mary Kate Battle said she wants to go into international devel­opment, and her service work at Farm of the Child in Trujillo, Honduras will help. 
“I wanted to do service before graduate school, not as a break, but as giving back,” Battle said. “The best way to do a job in [international development] is to do service in it.” 
Battle said the Notre Dame atmosphere fosters a call to service. 
“Notre Dame is educating the mind in the classroom and the heart through loving service,” Battle said. 


Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

Friday, May 14, 2010 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 page 10 The Observer . THE YEAR IN REVIEW Friday, May 14, 2010 

New hall houses 250 women. Eddy Street Commons opens. Rhoades replaces D’Arcy as bishop. Student government starts Transpo. 


The Year 
Observer Staff Report 
New residence Ryan Hall opens 

The University’s newest residence hall, Ryan Hall, opened at the beginning of the school year to house nearly 250 women. It is located between Welsh Family Hall and the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Ryan features traditional single, double and quad rooms, but also has modified “super doubles,” which have bay win­dows, and “super quads,” which have pri­vate bathrooms. The dorm established their identity as the turquoise and white Ryan Wildcats. 
As the newest dorm on campus, Ryan is a “green hall,” with amenities to save energy. Some green features include high efficiency washing machines, energy effi­cient windows, and toilets that have two flush sizes to save water. 
SMC enrollment highest since 1991 
Despite the economic downturn of the past year, Saint Mary’s College saw its highest enrollment since 1991. 
The College currently has 1,664 stu­dents enrolled, up from 1,527 in 2006. 
Vice President for Enrollment Management Daniel Meyer said the increase can be attributed to two things. 
“For the past four years, we have had more than 425 students in each of the first-year classes,” Meyer said. “Secondly, this year we had higher than expected retention of first-year students to second-year students.” 
College President Carol Ann Mooney named an enrollment increase as a goal in her 2007 strategic plan, written to strengthen diversity and stabilize the campus community financially. According to the plan, the College’s operating budget is strained when the enrollment falls below 1,600 students. 
In a struggling economy, Saint Mary’s families need more financial aid, which has resulted in an 11 percent increase of an average amount of $2,700 per student, according to a press release. In response to this, the College increases its institu­tional aid budget by around $2.6 million. 
Budget cuts and changes allow Saint Mary’s to offer both new and returning students the assistance to pay for their education. 
Holy Cross students robbed, forced into trunk of car 
Two Holy Cross students were robbed and forced to ride in the trunk of their car for at least an hour on Sept. 24, 2009 — highlighting the issue of student safety off campus. 
The two male students had exited their car in a parking lot near the 800 block of Notre Dame Ave. about 10:40 p.m. that night when a man approached them with a gun and demanded money before forc­ing them into the trunk of their car. 
The students told police several men hit them while driving the car, and forced them to make withdrawals from several ATMs. One student said he was hit in the ear with a gun and punched in the face. 
Police said an officer stopped the vehi­cle on McKinley Road because the driver failed to turn off the car’s high beams, and the suspects fled the vehicle. The offi­cer then discovered the students in the trunk 
South Bend Police Capt. Phil Trent said the crime “shocked the community,” and Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Mark Poorman said the University is mak­ing safety a priority, in response to the assault. 
Eddy Street Commons opens 
Following years of planning and devel­opment by the University, Eddy Street Commons opened this past September, providing students and faculty with serv­ices such as a number of new restaurants and high-end housing. 
While the project is still under develop­ment and some aspects such as a full-service hotel have been delayed because of the recession, others, such as a Chiptole restaurant, have proved to be popular with students and been declared a success by the University. 
SMC prof. writes award-winning play 
Saint Mary’s College professor and play­wright Susan Brabant Baxter’s play, “Confessions of the Chaff,” directed by Professor Mark Abram-Copenhaver was performed at Saint Mary’s College Little Theatre from November 13-15. Baxter submitted the play to several play­writing groups. It ultimately came in sec­ond place in a national play competition. 
“I was somewhat relieved that it didn’t win,” Baxter said. “I knew I needed more time to consider what, precisely, I wanted this play to do.” 
The play is set in Ireland in 1942 depict­ing the Mahan family’s struggles to rebuild relationships after a death. 
Baxter first drafted “Confessions” in 1995 while living in Colorado in response to a sex-abuse scandal within her local diocese. 
She has written many one-act and full-length plays, in addition to collaborating on a musical. Her previous plays have been performed at the Saint Mary’s Fine Arts Camp and Summer Academy. 
“I’d like to commend the SMC Theatre Department. It is like no other artistic community I have ever seen. Mark Abram-Copenhaver is an incredibly gifted director,” Baxter said. 
D’Arcy replaced by Rhoades 
The Vatican announced on Nov. 14, 2009 that Bishop Kevin Rhoades, who was then the bishop of the Harrisburg, Pa., diocese, would replace Bishop John D’Arcy on Jan. 13 as the Bishop of the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend, which includes Notre Dame. 
D’Arcy, who was 77-years-old at the time of the announcement, was called a friend of the Notre Dame by University President Fr. John Jenkins despite his past condemnation of Barack Obama’s selection as Commencement speaker and disapproval of the Vagina Monologues. 
Rhoades, who also disapproved of Obama’s selection, acknowledged those past tensions but said those particular disagreements are “in the past,” saying he hoped to have a “close personal and pas­toral relationship” with Notre Dame. 
In a released statement, Jenkins was very welcoming of Rhoades’s appointment and was looking forward to his leadership as bishop. 
“We are confident that the ministry of Bishop Rhoades will be a blessing for Notre Dame and the diocese,” Jenkins wrote. “We look forward both to his apos­tolate and to our friendship for many years to come.” 
Weis fired; Kelly hired 
Former Irish Football Coach Charlie Weis was handed his pink slip by Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick on Nov. 30, 2009. After a season of disappointments includ­ing home losses to Navy and the University of Connecticut, many Notre Dame alumni and students began calling for the end of Weis’s reign. Despite high graduation rates among his players and top-rated recruiting classes, Weis failed to match the records of the two coaches he succeeded, and he finished the 2009 sea­son with a 6-6. 
The search of Weis’ successor began immediately as Swarbrick and the Notre Dame administration eventually settled on Cincinnati’s Brian Kelly on Dec. 11, 2009. 



2009• 
Kelly went 34-6 in three seasons with the Bearcats and had just led the team to the Sugar Bowl. 
“Nobody does it like Notre Dame,” Kelly said. “There’s a chapel in every dorm, and there’s a leader around every corner, and we will cultivate that leadership here at Notre Dame, and we will continue to move towards excellence both in the classroom and on the football field.” 
Student government creates weekend bus route 
Former student body president Grant Schmidt and vice president Cynthia Weber established a new Transpo route that runs weekend nights past bars and student neighborhoods in December 2009. 
The new Transpo route 7A, Schmidt and Weber’s main initiative of their term, was meant to offer students’ a safe and cheap way to go off campus for the week­end. The bus runs Friday and Saturday nights. 
The route is funded by student govern­ment and the Office of Student Affairs. 
The first run of the new route on Friday, Dec. 4, 2009 had almost 500 riders. 
Schmidt said the first run was crucial to the success of the new Transpo route, so he was happy the buses were packed. 
“It was really important for this week­end to be successful,” Schmidt said at the time. “But the buses were literally packed.” 
Students, faculty, administration address crisis in Haiti 
Students and faculty responded swiftly to the 7.0-magnitude earthquake that struck the nation on Jan. 12. 
The University evacuated faculty and staff working in Haiti as part of the Notre Dame Haiti Program in Léogâne. The pro­gram focuses on research to eliminate lymphatic filariasis, also known as Elephantiasis, a disease that afflicts more than 26 percent of the Haitian population. 
After ensuring the safety of Notre Dame fauclty, the University focused on rebuild­ing and relief efforts, creating the site hai­tidisaster.nd.edu to organize University giving. 
Student government also rallied support among students, and created cash boxes set up throughout campus for students to donate money. 
The funds were donated to the American Red Cross, Catholic Relief Services, fundraising efforts of Friends of the Orphans, Congregation of Holy Cross 


Friday, May 14, 2010 The Observer . THE YEAR IN REVIEW page 11 
Jenkins marches with students in pro-life rally. Business school ranked No. 1. Actress Glenn Close speaks at Saint Mary’s. 
in Review 
u2010 

and the Notre Dame Haiti Program. 
Jenkins marches with students in pro-life rally 
In the shadow of the 2009 controversy over President Barack Obama’s invitation to deliver the Commencement address, University President Fr. John Jenkins par­ticipated in the March for Life in Washington D.C. on Jan. 22. 
Jenkins accompanied about 400 stu­dents to the Capitol, and he said there was a “certain energy” in the students marching that day, after abortion colored the debate over Obama’s presence on campus the previous spring. 
Before the March, Jenkins celebrated a Mass in Saint Agnes Church in Arlington, Va. with the students who were staying in the Parish Center. 
“Out of all the controversy from last spring, we wanted to take steps to deepen the pro-life cause,” Jenkins said told The Observer after the March. 
Students petition for addition of sexual orientation to nondiscrimination clause 
Over 200 students and faculty rallied outside the Main Building on Jan. 27, demanding the University change its nondiscrimination clause to add sexual orientation. 
The “No Home Under the Dome” demonstrators presented a petition and letter to University President John Jenkins asking for the policy change, and the pro­testers attempted to enter the Main Building before being denied access by Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) offi­cers. 
The demonstration followed an offen­sive Mobile Party comic about violence against the gay community that ran in The Observer on Jan. 13. 
The petition asking for the inclusion of sexual orientation to the nondiscrimina­tion clause has been presented to Jenkins several times in the past, and each time has been rejected. 
The University issued a statement that afternoon upholding its current non-dis­crimination policy and the “Spirit of Inclusion,” which represents the University’s “commitment to an inclusive community.” 
Economics dept. branch dissolved 
The Academic Council voted to dissolve the Department of Economics and Policy Studies (ECOP) at a February meeting, a decision that received backlash from stu­dents and faculty involved in the Department. 
The University has supported two eco­nomics departments since 2003, when the Academic Council voted to split the Department of Economics into Economics and Policy Studies and Economics and Econometrics. 
The remaining Department of Economics and Econometrics will become the University’s only economics depart­ment starting next academic year. 
The College of Arts and Letters said they would honor the tenure of ECOP pro­fessors and find places in other areas at the University to house the ECOP faculty. 
But economics students submitted a petition to Arts and Letters asking to con­tinue ECOP, and student government passed a resolution calling for a delay of the dissolution of the Department. 
Business school ranked No. 1 
The Mendoza College of Business was named the top undergraduate business school in the country in Bloomberg BusinessWeek’s fifth annual rankings. 
Notre Dame, which was ranked second in 2009, finished ahead of the business schools of University of Virginia, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and University of Pennsylvania. 
The criteria included students’ response to teachers, SAT scores, recruiters’ responses to students and student-faculty ratio. 
“Students boasting about the school’s commitment to ethics, Catholic beliefs and passionate professors helped land Mendoza in first place,” the BusinessWeek article said. “During an economic crisis that has left many young people unemployed, Mendoza also man­aged a strong showing in career place­ment, with 95 percent of grads landing a job offer within three months of gradua­tion.” 
Carolyn Woo, dean of Mendoza College of Business, said a commitment to under­graduate education as well as the entire Notre Dame experience contributed to the school’s success. 
She said Mendoza does not tailor their curriculum to rankings, but rather strives to fulfill Notre Dame’s mission. 
“This is a school to honor the Blessed Mother, and [University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh] once said, mediocrity is not the way we honor the Blessed Mother,” she said. “Everything we do, we should do it as well as we can. We did what we did because it is our mission.” 
Actress Glenn Close speaks at SMC 
Close visited Saint Mary’s College March 15 as the Margaret Hill Endowed Lecturer. In “An Evening With Glenn Close,” Close spoke about her journey as an actor in the College’s O’Laughlin Auditorium. She shared stories from her life and told tales of past auditions, her childhood and her family. 
As a 12th generation Connecticut Yankee, actress Glenn Close found her inspiration and strength in her two grand­mothers and her mother to pursue her dreams. 
Close introduced herself with an anec­dote about a woman who spotted her at the airport and mistook her for Meryl Streep. 
“Your perception of those characters have deeply influenced your perception of me,” Close said. 
Close said she based some of her char­acters after her grandmothers’ strong personalities. Both of her grandmothers were talented — one dreamed of being a famous singer, and the other longed to become an actor. 
Though she has been successful in her career and has been awarded many of the parts she wanted, Close said she was greatly influenced by others. 
“I’ve had so many brilliant people con­stantly whispering in my ear,” Close said. 
Saint Mary’s Dance Marathon raises $77,000 
Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame students gathered to “Dance for a Chance” at the fifth annual Dance Marathon at the College’s Angela Athletic Facility March 26-27. 
The event, which was hosted by the College with the help of Notre Dame’s Pre-Professional Society, raised $77,328 and will donate $72,000 to the Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis. 
“This year, we were focused on fundraising, making our presence known and trying to raise awareness,” said Dance Marathon president Kelly Deranek, a senior at Saint Mary’s. 
Approximately 350 people attended this year’s event, which ran from 8 p.m. Friday until 8 a.m. Saturday. 
The night included live performances by the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Irish dance team and bands such as South Jordan. In addition, raffles, crafts and card games were among the many activi­ties of the night. 
Children from Riley attended the event, including Marty Manges, who said arm wrestling with a Notre Dame football player was one of the coolest things he had ever done. The Saint Mary’s College Morale Committee also came to teach vol­unteers how to dance. 
Soler, Bell elected student body presi­dent, vice president 
Sophomores Catherine Soler and Andrew Bell were elected student body president and vice president Feb. 8 and took office April 1. 
The duo became the first all-sophomore ticket to win the election when they defeated their opponents with 54.6 per­cent of the vote. Soler and Bell won with­out a runoff election. 
“This is the first time in at least four years that we haven’t had a runoff,” then Judicial Council president Ian Secviar said. 
Soler previously served as sophomore class president while Bell was a student senator. They defeated juniors Eras Noel and Julian Corona and freshmen Peter Ledet and Gabe Alvare in the election. 
Soler and Bell promised a textbook rental program and to focus on communi­ty relations during their time in office. 
Chesley, Smith take SGA office 
Saint Mary’s juniors Rachael Chesley and Laura Smith said they would bring a “fresh perspective” to their roles as Student Government Association (SGA) president and vice president, respectively, when they took office April 1. 
The pair defeated junior Meg Griffin, current SGA vice president, and sopho­more Emily Skirtich, SGA executive secre­tary in the Feb. 26 election. 
Chesley has served as a member of the Student Activities Board (SAB) as well as on Dance Marathon and the Class Gift Campaign. Smith has also participated in Dance Marathon and has served on the first year, sophomore and junior boards. 
One of their main goals is to be a strong voice for the student body, Chesley said. 
They are working to connect to alum­nae back to the campus community. 
Chesley and Smith said their mission can be stated in two words: “Community” and “integrity.” 
“I am excited for the opportunity to be a visible and involved voice for the stu­dents,” Chesley said. “This opportunity will be a challenging and rewarding one, and it will surely be an opportunity to provide a fresh perspective and to be an enthused and involved leader for the stu­dent body.” 


page 12 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 14, 2010 
Music video draws mixed reactions 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
A video project for the Athletics Department featuring the Notre Dame pom squad, footage from football and bas­ketball games and Ohio-based funk band Freekbass has cre­ated a stir among students — resulting in a Facebook group protesting the video with almost 4,000 members. 
The “We are ND” video fea­tures Freekbass singing the chorus “We are ND. We are Notre Dame” throughout cam­pus, in the Notre Dame Stadium, the Joyce Athletic Center and under the “Play Like a Champion Today” sign. 
But Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) Professor Ted Mandell, producer of the video and writer of the “We are ND” song, said the video is not meant to be an official promo­tional video for the University. 
Mandell said he produced the video for Athletics Department’s end of the year awards show, the O.S.C.A.R.S, which highlights the achieve­ment of student athletes. 
“The idea was to make a fun, laugh at yourself, cheer for the Irish, dance in the parking lots, celebration song that would fit well with the tone of the O.S.C.A.R.S show,” he said. “It’s intended to be a goofy, carefree dance song you sing when you’re partying in the parking lot after beating Michigan. Something that fans can chant, and jump up and down to.” 
Yet some students say the video, which features Freekbass in large sunglasses and funky outfits, does not fit Notre Dame. 
“We want to tell the Boston College and USC fans that will make fun of us that we didn’t give the okay,” sophomore Kyle Blanco said. “It’s only a small portion of the Notre Dame population behind it.” 
Freshman Christopher Grunewald, one of the stu­dents who started the Facebook group “Protest ‘We are ND’ Video,” said the cre­ators of the group felt Freekbass was not representa­tive of Notre Dame. 
“My first impression was, ‘why is a guy wearing freak attire singing 70s funk on our basketball court and under our Play Like a Champion Today sign, singing, We are ND?’” Grunewald said. 
Junior Michael Burke, a pro­duction assistant for the video and FTT student, said he thinks the students criticizing the video are taking it out of context. 
“The video really had no purpose. [Mandell] wasn’t try­ing to reinvent school spirit,” Burke said. “I could have guessed some people wouldn’t like it, but I didn’t think people would be so outspoken. I think it’s ridiculous that people are taking it so seriously.” 
Burke said the video cost nothing and was not sanc­tioned in an official capacity by the University. 
“I think it was apparent to everyone song was corny, Burke said. “It just wasn’t meant to be as serious as peo­ple are taking it. It’s supposed to be light-hearted and just funny.” 
Despite the reaction from students, Burke said produc­ing the video was a fun experi­ence. 
“It was really awesome working with equipment and helping professors do some­thing on more professional level rather than as a stu­dent,” he said. 
Senior Stephanie Jensen, a member of the Notre Dame Marching Band, plays the falto during a scene filmed at Legends in the video. 
“I think the video was really well put together, but I’m not a really big fan of the song itself,” she said. 
Jensen said her scene was filmed in about five or six takes, which took about half an hour. Burke said the whole video was filmed in one day. 
“It’s always fun being with band kids,” Jensen said of the experience filming the video. “It was kind of weird. I can’t really verbalize it. It wouldn’t be something Notre Dame would usually do. I guess it was just atypical.” 
Grunewald said he was sur­prised at how fast the Facebook group protesting the video grew. 
“It was actually funny. I started it and within about 20 minutes, there were already over 100 people, and it grew exponentially from there,” Grunewald said. 
But Mandell said he has heard positive feedback on the video as well. 
“I think being posted on the University YouTube Channel set up certain expectations for the viewer. No one expected to see a video from the 
O.S.C.A.R.S. No one expected to see a guy like Freekbass. No one expected to hear a funky little fan song,” he said “I think some viewers applied their expectations of what they thought it would be, to what it really was, and that produces negative opinion. 
“I’ve gotten nothing but posi­tive feedback from fellow fac­ulty and administrators who see it for what it is — fun and goofy. Freekbass certainly doesn’t take himself seriously. He makes fun of himself.” 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 


ROTC seniors to begin assignments 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
Thirty-nine Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) cadets will be commissioned as officers at the Tri-Military ceremony in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Saturday. 
The ceremony will take place at 9 
a.m. and will be followed by a reception in the Pasquerilla Center. The Army will commission 12 2nd lieutenants, the Air Force, 12 and the Marine Corps, six. The Navy will commission nine ensigns. 
Senior Thomas Capretta, cadet battalion commander of the Army ROTC Fightin’ Irish Battalion, said the commissioning involves taking an oath and getting the rank of Second Lieutenant pinned on each cadet’s uniform. 
Maj. Gen. Philip Volpe will be the speaker at the ceremony. Volpe, a Notre Dame alumnus, has had a long career in Army medicine, and has received various awards for his service. 
After the ceremony, the students will officially be commissioned offi­cers of the military. 
“Most will have four-year com­mitments, but some will have longer if their training costs more,” Col. Dennis Mitchell, commanding offi­cer of the Air Force ROTC Unit, said. “For example, three will be going to one year of pilot training and will spend at least 10 years in the Air Force after training.” 
The Navy also requires four years of active service, with aviators requiring up to eight years after they receive their qualification wings, Lt. William Fensterer, assis­tant professor of naval science, said. 
Fensterer said Navy cadets will go to different locations depending on their preferences. 
“We have some heading to Pilot Training, Surface Ships, Submarine Training, Marine Corps Basic School, one to SEAL Training and one to a Naval Medical Center,” he said. 
The commissioning ceremony honors every graduating cadet in the ROTC program, but each senior also has the opportunity to do a pri­vate commissioning ceremony with his or her family at the Grotto or the east door of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
“These are done mostly on Friday, with a few done on Saturday. I will be doing my private commissioning ceremony at 8 a.m. on Saturday morning at the Grotto,” said Marina Rodriguez, a senior Army cadet. 
While most ROTC seniors will go directly into the service after gradu­ation, Rodriguez will delay her serv­ice a few years to enter medical school. 
“I am actually in a slightly differ­ent situation than most of my peers. I received an education delay authorizing me to delay my service commitment in order to allow me to attend medical school starting in the fall,” Rodriguez said. “So, unlike my peers who will begin their branch training and transition to their assigned units this year, I will be attending University of Colorado Denver School of Medicine.” 
After finishing medical school, Rodriguez will be a captain in the 
U.S. Army Medical Corps. She will have an eight-year service obliga­tion that must be completed at the end of her residency. 
“As of right now, I plan to make a career out of the Army and will like­ly serve at least 20 years,” she said. 
Rodriguez said the most reward­ing part of the ROTC program has been the strong friendships she built over the four years. 
“My classmates and fellow mem­bers of the battalion are some of the best friends I could ever hope for,” she said. “I have grown a lot during my time in ROTC.” 
Capretta also said the program has influenced his personal develop­ment and overall experience at Notre Dame. 
“ROTC has been an integral part of my college experience. The cadre and recent alumni of the Fightin’ Irish Battalion have been great mentors to me, and have influenced me more than anyone else in the past four years,” Capretta said. “The cadets in program have become some of my best friends at Notre Dame.” 
As cadet battalion commander of the Army ROTC Fightin’ Irish Battaltion, Capretta was responsible for training the 87 cadets currently in the battalion. 
In November, Capretta will head to Ft. Benning, Ga. for infantry offi­cer training. After completing his training, he will go to Ft. Carson, Colo. for his first permanent station. 
“I’m not sure how long I will be in the Army. I can see a career, a four-year stint and anything in between as being possible right now,” he said. 
Capretta said that after his four years of ROTC training, he feels ready to enter the Army. 
“Speaking for my classmates, I think we all feel very well prepared for our first assignments in the real Army. The ROTC program here has done a great job of pushing us to improve ourselves,” Capretta said. “It has also given us many leadership opportunities to hone those skills that we will need as offi­cers.” 
Rodriguez agreed that she feels prepared to move on to the next step. 
“The instructors here have done an excellent job in preparing us to enter the Army and to serve as leaders of our various units,” she said. “Joining ROTC was one of the best decisions I made during my time here at Notre Dame.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 


Friday, May 14, 2010 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 page 14 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 14, 2010 
Faculty, students recognized by College 
Honors Convocation held at Saint Mary’s awarded professors, senior 
By ALICIA SMITH and 
ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Students and faculty received a variety of awards during the Honors Convocation held at Saint Mary’s College on May 2. 
Ted Billy, chair of the English Department and professor at the College was awarded the Maria Pieta award. The award, according to a press release from the College, was estab­lished in Billy 1976 in honor of Maria Pieta, a former teacher and administrator at Saint Mary’s. 

The award is given to one nom­inee who has demonstrated qual­ity teaching in courses for first year students and sophomores. 
“It’s for outstanding teaching, especially in regard to lower divi­sion courses,” Billy said. 
Billy also said the award was given to a professor who dis­played excellence in teaching, and dedication to the students. Recipients also must demonstrate a passion for teaching. 
“Usually there’s always an abundance of really good teach­ers who are being promoted by the students,” Billy said. “It’s always a very nice thing to do. There are so many worthy candi­dates.” 
Billy said he was surprised he was the recipient of the award. 
“It was an unexpected delight,” he said. 
Billy has been a professor at the College since 1987. He has served as the chair of the English Department for two terms. Currently, he is serving his sec­ond term, and has been for the past four years. 
In addition, Billy is the faculty advisor for “The Avenue,” the student-run nonfiction magazine, the advisor for the English Club and he has participated in several plays. 
Billy said he enjoys teaching and recognizes that learning is a process. 
“Teaching is not just simply a transmission of information, but also a transformation of the indi­viduals involved,” Billy said. “So, it’s a real joy to see a student who you have in your class in her first year at Saint Mary’s and then see her again say in her junior or senior year in another class hav­ing a great deal more self-confi­dence and being more assertive and having a greater self image.” 
Also recognized was professor Joanne Snow, chair of the math­ematics department, who received the Spes Unica Award. It is given to a professor Snow who has done “eminent service to Saint Mary’s College,” according to a press release. Snow came to the College in 1983, and has been teaching students and has partic­ipated on College committees. 

She received her undergradu­ate degree from Loyola of Baltimore and her Ph.D. from Notre Dame. Snow has spent time as a visiting professor at Loyola University and taught for two years in Germany before beginning her career at the College. 
“I wanted to be a teacher ever since I was a little kid. It was just part of my personality, inborn,” Snow said. 
She said her favorite part of teaching is “working with the stu­dents and seeing the students grow, seeing the students get excited.” 
Snow currently serves on sev­eral committees, including Curriculum, Rank and Tenure, Student Affairs, Mission Council and many others. 
“Saint Mary’s is a place that’s involved in the whole life of the student, not just in pouring facts into your heads,” Snow said. “It’s also life, and so because the College is committed to the Holy Cross tradition of information, formation and transformation, the life of the College goes way beyond the classroom.” 
Snow said teaching is one of the most difficult, but rewarding jobs a student could take. 
This is not the first time Snow has been recognized by the College, she also won the Maria Pieta Award in 1993, which is an award that recognizes “quality of teaching done in courses for freshmen and sophomores,” according to a press release. 
Snow said she enjoys the rela­tionship she can establish with the students here at the College, which is a large reason for why she teaches. 
“Saint Mary’s is a really unique place,” Snow said. “You form bonds with the students that go far beyond the content of a math class. It’s a privilege to teach here. It’s a privilege to work with the young women. It’s a privilege to be allowed into their lives.” Saint Mary’s junior Jinqui Guan received the Saint Catherine Medal at the Honors Guan Convocation. 

According to a press release from the College, the Saint Catherine Medal is awarded to a sophomore or junior student who has demonstrated personal excel­lence and a high standard of scholarship and has contributed to the College Community. 
“This is for a conscious stu­dent’s contribution to Saint Mary’s in academics, leadership and activities,” Guan said. 
Guan is an economics and French double major at the College. 
Guan said she has been involved in Student Diversity Board, the Around the World Club, the Saint Mary’s Dance Ensemble and the International Business Council. In addition, Guan is the student representa­tive for the Alumni Board and the student representative for the Modern Languages Department at the Student Academic Council. 
Guan said she was caught off guard when it was announced that she would receive the award. 
“I was really, really surprised because I had no idea about it,” Guan said. “I had no idea that it was given to a student at this Honors Convocation.” 
Guan said she was thrilled to be the recipient of the Saint Catherine’s Medal. 
“I was so excited, my legs were shaking,” Guan said. “I totally didn’t expect that. I was so happy, and I am so happy that what I have done was recognized and people really appreciate it.” 
Guan also said she is grateful for all of the support from faculty and staff at the College. 
“I am very thankful and grate­ful for all the faculty and students and the administrators here [at the College] who really support me and help me along the way,” Guan said. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu and Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
Saint Mary’s graduate receives ‘Outstanding Senior Award’ from Alumnae Association 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
The college experience is what you make of it, according to Saint Mary’s senior Rachel Eisterhold, and she said she has worked for the past four years to try and get as much as possible out of her time at the College. 
“I saw the passion [other stu­dents] had toward Saint Eisterhold Mary’s and I wanted this same passion in everything I do on campus,” Eisterhold said. “I jumped into a lot of different activities and found what I love here on campus and in the mean time found hundreds of people that have touched my life and changed my perspective.” 

Eisterhold, who is originally from the Tulsa, Okla. area, was recognized by the Saint Mary’s College Alumnae Association Board of Directors and presented with the “Outstanding Senior Award” because she “exemplifies the spirit and values of the College,” accord­ing to a press of the activities on campus, including peer ministry, acting as secretary for the Italian Club and playing oboe for the University Band at Notre Dame. She is also a resident advisor in Regina Hall, a student ambassador who shows interested students around cam­pus and an intern in the public relations department at Saint Mary’s. 
“I love being in tune with events and activities around campus as they are happening and sharing this news with the community,” Eisterhold said. 
Eisterhold also spent a year abroad in Rome as a sophomore. 
“I had never been a big fan of history before the trip, but seeing the history of Rome in ruins through a tour of the Roman Forum and seeing this history up close made me appreciate how far we have come and how much we make an impact on others that follow us later in life,” Eisterhold said. 
With all the activities she partic­ipates in, she said sharing her experience with others stands out most to her. 
“My favorite memory at Saint Mary’s is celebrating Mass in so many different ways on campus with others,” Eisterhold said. “I have loved so many memories that come from living in the resi­
release. During time at  her Saint  “I love this holistic education, and I  dence hall and becoming so close to the  
M  a  r  y  ’  s  ,  would like to think  amazing women  
Eisterhold  has  that I can make a  around me.”  
participated in several different academic and  positive difference in the world because I  After gradua­tion, she will be spending the  
extracurricular activities. “I have real­ized, especially  have found my passion for learning, living, my  summer at Notre Dame working with the ND Vision pro- 
this past year, how everyone on campus is so i n v o l v e d , ”  relationship with Christ and my relationship with  gram. Once that is complete, Eisterhold said she hopes to get  
Eisterhold said.  those around me.”  a position at a  
“Just  because  public relations  
someone partici­pates in their major activities,  Rachel Eisterhold senior  firm and eventu­ally go to gradu­ate school.  
this doesn’t limit  “I  love  this  
them from get- holistic educa­ 

ting involved in student govern-tion, and I would like to think that ment, Campus Ministry, I can make a positive difference in Residence Life and Student Living, the world because I have found campus clubs, activities at Notre my passion for learning, living, my Dame, and I feel everyone is so relationship with Christ and my well-rounded with both a passion relationship with those around for their major as well as their me,” she said. faith, friends, clubs and activity involvement.” Contact Ashley Charnley at 
Eisterhold has taken advantage acharn01@saintmarys.edu 

Co-valedictorianspartafter17yearsofattendingschooltogether 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
After attending the same school for 17 years, Saint Mary’s College co-valedictorians Audrey Marrah and Carly O’Connor plan to go separate ways after graduation. 
Marrah and O’Connor have attended the same school since kindergarten. 
“We always knew each other,” O’Connor said. 
According to O’Connor, the two became best friends when they swam together in eighth grade. 
“Middle school started in seventh grade for us,” Marrah said. “We started hanging out in the same group of friends, and then, as Carly said, we swam together in eighth grade.” 
After attending high school togeth­er, the two decided independently to attend the College. Both said they were excited when they found out they were attending Saint Mary’s together. 
“[Carly] had decided before me,” Marrah said. “I was kind of between a few different schools, but then I came and spent a weekend with one of our friends who was a freshman at the time, and I fell in love with it, and I decided to come [to Saint Mary’s] too.” 
O’Connor and Marrah also said they were excited when they found out they were going to share the honor of being the College’s co-vale­dictorians. 
“We were excited that we were going to get to share it together and that we wouldn’t be on stage by our­selves,” O’Connor said. 
Both received an e-mail from the administration in late February informing them that they were co-valedictorians. 
“When I got the e-mail, it said I was co-valedictorian, but it didn’t say who the other one was,” O’Connor said. “I was just hoping, ‘please, let it be Audrey. Please let it be Audrey.’ Then we found out and we were excited.” 
According to Marrah, both knew that they had 4.0 GPAs before they were announced as co-valedictori­ans. 
The two plan to give a joint speech during Commencement where Marrah begins and finishes the speech, and O’Connor delivers the middle. 
“I’m the meat in the sandwich,” O’Connor said. 
“I’m the bun,” Marrah added. 
O’Connor will graduate with a Bachelor of Arts degree in English Literature. Marrah will graduate with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biology. 
After graduation, O’Connor and Marrah are separating after 17 years. 
“I am doing Mercy Volunteer Corp.,” Marrah said. 
While Marrah will be overseas, O’Connor plans to attend graduate school. 
“It’s called the John Paul II Institute, and I’ll be getting a master’s degree in theology and Marriage and the Family,” O’Connor said. 
After graduate school, O’Connor said she hopes to work in a parish or diocese doing family ministry. She said she might also work toward her Ph.D. as well. 
Though they won’t be together, the two plan to keep in touch the best they can, and they look forward to the future. 
“I’m really excited. I wanted to do service work,” Marrah said. 
O’Connor said she is eager for the next step of her life as well. 
“John Paul II’s work, it’s my pas­sion,” O’Connor said. “I’m very excit­ed.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at 
asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

Friday, May 14, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 15 
Teams win $15,000 competition 
Students present business models at annual Mendoza event 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Senior Staff Writer 
The Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies recently announced Weekend Student Adventures (WSA) and Morph and Thro as the winners of its annual business venture competitions, awarding each team top prizes of $15,000. 
The competitions were held at the Mendoza College of Business. 
This year’s McCloskey Business Plan Competition and Social Venture Plan Competition drew entries from 101 student and alumni teams, which is its highest number yet, Karen Slaggert, program manager for the business plan competitions, said. 
“This year we had such a great mix of student and alumni teams,” Slaggert said. “We were blown away by the quality of the presenta­tions of the undergraduates.” 
Led by senior BFA student Andrew Steves, the winning McCloskey team, which conceived the WSA idea, was comprised of MSA candidate Patrick Carey, BBA candidate Helen Lee and MBA can­didate Jeff Harer. 
WSA presented a multi-faceted business plan that serves American college students studying abroad in Europe. It offers guided tours and travel packages for weekend and weeklong trips, Slaggert said. 
Steves, who studied abroad his junior year in Rome with teammate Carey, said he used his own travel experience to develop the plan. 
“We all saw that there were so many great experiences we had in studying abroad and it really broad­ens your horizons,” Steves said. “But at the same time, there’s also so much resulting from inexperi­enced travel. For example if it’s their first time in Rome, a lot of kids won’t know to get up early to wait in line for the Vatican.” 
Each team in the competition was partnered with a mentor to facilitate their development process. WSA was matched with John Anthony of Anthony Travel. 
“[Anthony] helped them figure out the campus component,” Slaggert said. “He helped with the marketing to universities and colleges.” 
Steves said he and Carey plan to go to Europe in August to research the launch of their first season of tours. WSA will focus on a select number of initial destinations based on popularity. 
“We determined popularity based on surveys and interviews I’d done,” Steves said. “Paris, Prague, Barcelona, Dublin, Rome and London were the top destinations.” 
The runner-up team of the McCloskey Competition was Eptics LLC, which works to develop and commercialize Progenitex™, a labo­ratory process that rapidly expands progenitor bone marrow cells col­lected from umbilical cord blood. 
The other competition, the Social Venture Competition, now in its ninth year, features plans with envi­ronmental or social components and are not necessarily not-for-prof­it. 
Morph and Thro, which is com­posed of former Irish football play­ers Gerome Sapp, Glenn Earl and Jim Molinaro, won the Social Venture Competition with a plan to recycle post-consumer plastic bot­tles (PET) to make polyester fitness apparel. 
The garments are made from 100 percent recycled material in a profi­cient domestic work force, and according to the plan’s website, the venture aims to “promote individ­ual, social and environmental sus­tainability through performance apparel.” 
Sapp said he was thankful for the opportunity to return to Notre Dame for the competition. 
“Being able to come back to Notre Dame and compete in the Social Venture Business Competition and win after graduating from the busi­ness school and going on to play five years in the NFL was extremely rewarding,” Sapp said. 
He said the support his team received was helpful as well. 
“The most rewarding part of win­ning the competition was receiving all the support and insight from dis­tinguished alums and competition mentors,” he said. 
The runner-up team of the Social Venture Competition was composed of all undergraduates who devel­oped a plan called Red Carabao to open international youth hostels. 
“Their plan was very well done,” Slaggert said. “We had to remind the judges that they were all under­graduates.” 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
Entrikin named associate provost 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Associate News Editor 
The University has selected vice provost of international studies at University of California-Los Angeles (UCLA) 
J. Nicholas Entrikin to become Notre Dame’s first vice president and associate provost for Internationalization. 
Entrikin’s new position will focus on “enhancing and expanding the international components of Notre Dame,” Provost Tom Burish said. 
“We recognize that Notre Dame really is a global insti­tution,” associate provost Dennis Jacobs said. “Its mis­sion is one that extends to the entire world.” 
Jacobs said Entrikin’s new duties would include attract­ing more international stu­dents and faculty to the University, enhancing study abroad programs and increas­ing collaborative efforts. 
Jacobs said the University was already very strong in some areas, such as study abroad participation, but lacking in others, such as per­centage of undergraduate international students. 
“Campus does not reflect the diversity of the Church,” he said. 
Entrikin said he will focus on establishing a higher level of coordination and raising the international profile of Notre Dame. 
“Such a coordinating role will involve working coopera­tively with others across cam­pus to enhance international learning opportunities for Notre Dame students, to attract more international students and visiting scholars to Notre Dame and to facili­tate faculty research and teaching collaborations with international partner institu­tions,” he said. “The University of Notre Dame is well situated to become an important and distinctive member of a growing network of globally-focused, research universities.” 
Jacobs said Entrikin was chosen following an interna­tional candidate search. Jacobs said he was impressed with how Entrikin had “brought together a very com­plex campus like UCLA and brought together many func­tions and offices.” 
Ultimately, Jacobs said most peer institutions have similar positions already established, and Entrikin would help the University be “a powerful force for good that was not restricted to U.S. boundaries.” 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 


The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 16 Friday, May 14, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
Sleep easy 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

It’s gotten to the point where I hate take a massive group of wonderful people time I spent with my friends here cannot 
024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
going to sleep. and then break it down into subsets: be replicated in any form and needs to be 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

That’s what this college does to you. It class, dorm, section, etc. Whatever dorm cherished. 
Matt Gamber 

takes something you cherish and turns it you’re in automatically becomes the best I’m sure the rest of you are just as sad MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER to dust. But that’s why you love it. one on campus (unless you’re in Fisher, about graduating and leaving this won-Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill Sleep is the elu­

which is the best dorm on campus) and derful place and these wonderful people sive nirvana that 
you grow as close with your section mem-behind. You’ve been blessed with the 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 

bers as with your family. chance to spend time here, and I hope for ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner strive towards, the college students 
Speaking of family, and Google Apps, all our sakes we can remember it fondly tonic that cures all 
which we know all Notre Dame students as well as let it shape as we enter the real ills. Countless times love, some of my friends have an e-mail world. My friends, rectors and professors 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 
label called “ND family,” a section in have had a profound effect on who I am, I’ve been working 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 

which they put all chain e-mails regard-and that’s a good thing. I hope that’s the SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble up all night work-for this paper, or 
ing the things we do together. How many case for you as well. SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley ing on a newspa­
other schools breed that kind of unity? So now it’s night time of our college per, or in class dur-I’ll remember not sleeping on account career, and we’ll go to sleep here one 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs Bill Brink
ing a busy week of class work that I had allowed to pile final time before we wake up to a world GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin begging for an hour up, nights spent in Reckers until morning. absent the things that have made our ADVERTISING MANAGERS: Theresa Bea between the sheets. Worth it? Sort of. My GPA survived (it’s a lives great for four years. It won’t be 
Managing

Come senior year 4.12, Dad, in case you were wondering) happy. But it’s a necessary part of this 
Mary Clare Rodriguez Editor
that changes. Now and I learned a lot in some great classes experience. In 15 years, when you slide 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza Emeritus
my bed represents with wonderful professors. Another thing under the covers (probably at 9:30, 
CONTROLLER: Pat Sala 

the death sentence this university attracts is a fantastic facul-because the kids need breakfast by 6:15 SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree of another day with the people I love, one ty who care about the students and what to make the bus and you have a meeting day closer to the point where I have to they learn. That’s not the case every-at 8:30 you need to prepare for) you’ll 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 

(574)
 631-7471 leave behind everything I hold dear and where and shouldn’t be taken for granted. think back to the time when those con-FAX join the real world. Now’s the time for me to tell you about cerns were a distant possibility and sleep 

(574)
 631-6927 This place is so wonderful, it’s trans-how scared I was freshman year, how represented the ticking clock on the best ADVERTISING formed sleep from a goal to a dread. My much I’ve changed, how great this place time of your life. And you’ll smile and be 


(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu buddy Rob says I don’t appreciate the is, and maybe sprinkle in a cliché to illus-thankful that you got to be a part of it. 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

value of a good nap. This is why. trate the Class of 2010’s fleeting time at Sweet dreams, Class of 2010. It’s been 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 

The sacrifice of sleep allowed me to Notre Dame like “We will always have real. 
MANAGING EDITOR 

experience the memories that will stay Paris.” I won’t do that, but that does 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
with me. That’s both for big events, like remind me of the time my roommate and Bill Brink is graduating with a degree 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

waking up at 4 a.m. to bus down to the I stayed up all night, finals the next morn-in History and Journalism, Ethics and 
lmyers2@nd.edu, swerner@nd.edu 

BUSINESS OFFICE Kentucky Derby, and small, like staying ing be damned, discussing the top 10 Democracy. He would like to be remem­
(574) 631-5313 up until 4 a.m. arguing with my room-most quotable movies. Now, can I tell you bered as the guy who debunked the myth NEWS DESK mates about whether a pretzel is classi-who the Secretary of State was in the that you won’t graduate if you walk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu fied as a cracker or a pastry. (It’s both. It’s Kennedy administration, since I was through the doors of Main Building, since VIEWPOINT DESK also a German guild symbol and a studying for U.S. history that night? Sure. he did it as a freshman in his first week 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
Christian Lenten staple, and the biggest But now I also know that when someone on campus because no one told him not 
SPORTS DESK 

pretzel ever weighed 40 pounds and was asks me “Did I catch a ‘niner’ in there?” to. He’d like to thank all the people who 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 

five feet wide. And to think I almost went and wonders if I called from a walkie-made it possible for him to come here and 
SCENE DESK 

through life without these crucial nuggets talkie, I need to respond with “No, it was all the people who made his time here as 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 

SAINT MARY’S DESK of information.) cordless.” special as it was. He can be contacted at acharn01@saintmarys.edu But what does Notre Dame have to do “Never memorize something that you wbrink@nd.edu PHOTO DESK with this, other than its proximity to can look up,” Albert Einstein said, since The views expressed in this column are 
(574) 631-8767 djacobs@nd.edu Louisville? It brings together the people we’re on the subject of quotes. Dean Rusk those of the author and not SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS that make these memories possible. You is a simple Google search away. But the necessarily those of The Observer. 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Sarah Mervosh Douglas Farmer Ashley Charnley Chris Masoud Joseph McMahon Graphics Scene Blair Chemidlin Jordan Gamble Viewpoint Jess Shaffer Michelle Maitz 
Can we top this? 

Fears about post-college life hit me hard Monday driving back from Wrigley Field after hanging around Chicago all day. I mentioned to a friend of mine that, in one week, we’ll be sitting at home and won’t be students any­more. 
In that particular moment, having just spent the day with friends bumming around downtown, going to the ballpark, getting tipsy and having generally just a great time, I thought to myself: how will I ever top the last four years? 

In the last four years at Notre Dame, I, like the rest of you, have had experi­ences I never imagined and made friends that will last a lifetime. We could talk for hours about that time freshman year our first TC party got busted, the summer we snuck into the tunnels, how much we loved tap with McKenna, the St. Patrick’s day we drank in class, how we lived through the circus over Obama’s visit last year, and on and on and on. 
But what happens now, when that’s all over? This worry hasn’t been helped by the dozens of people who say you should “enjoy college while you can” because “they’re the best years of your life.” It’s probably good advice while you’re start­ing out, but it makes me sick to think about today. 

But what now? Will I just turn into a wannabe-student alum — the alums who come back for all the football games, get wasted at tailgates and hit on undergrads at the Backer?I hope not. I want a life after college other than trying to re-live my college days. 
What it boils down to is that I still want some adventure after college. And, in ret­rospect, having an adventure is something I’ve learned how to do fairly well in the last few years. 
The best friendships, the best memories were usually about taking a risk, stepping out of my comfort zone, doing something spontaneous. I would have never had such a great career at Notre Dame had I been a risk-averse hobbit. It was diving into something new, something unexpect­ed, or something adventurous that provid­ed me with an unforeseen opportunity or a new friendship. 
Like the time we decided to go to Cairo while studying abroad in Innsbruck, got on the plane without a plan, got lost and ended up riding the camels to the pyra­mids. That was stepping out of our com­fort zone. 
Or the time we did the Hesburgh Challenge at the end of this semester and were nearly caught on the 13th floor by a janitor. That was risky. 
Or, even something like trying out for the marching band freshman year on a whim, and later going to the Sugar Bowl with some of my new best friends. That was an adventure. 
College and the freedom it provides young adults like us is the ideal time to find adventure and have fun. But who says the adventure has to end with gradu­ation? So that’s my goal for the next few years. Though, living in Chicago a mere two hours from campus I’ll be at a high risk of becoming one of those wannabe-undergrad alums, I’ll be making a point of seeking out adventure after college. 
Even if we don’t think we can “top” the Notre Dame experience, we’ll have the memories and friendships to carry with us, along with a sense of adventure and spontaneity to make more great memo­ries down the road, even as our college years come to a close. 
Aaron Steiner will graduate with a degree in Management and German. After graduation, he is working for Deloitte in Chicago and will try to balance coming back to campus and being a wannabe-undergrad. He’ll also try finding adven­ture by (hopefully) visiting his adventur­ous friends in Korea and Europe and around the U.S. He owes everything to Mom and Dad, Ellie, Peter, Andrew and all of his friends — he will be forever grateful. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
“Don't live down to  
expectations. Go out there and do something remarkable.”  “Wherever you go, go with all your heart.” Confucius  
Wendy WassersteinU.S. playwright  Chinese philosopher  

The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Friday, May 14, 2010 page 17 
Notre Dame as an institution and a family 
Everyone has that moment when they question their decision to attend Notre Dame. Not everyone is lucky enough to be reassured that they made the right choice. At least, not as an undergraduate. I think most peo­ple don’t begin to fully appreciate how lucky they were to be here until after they leave, and I am only just starting to realize how this 

Kara King
University affected me. 

I would not be Viewpoint who I am now Editor without Notre 
Emeritus 
Dame. I was allowed to find myself, surrounded by the strongest peers, most dedicated mentors and best friends I could have asked for. The people I’ve interacted with here have changed me. Professors taught me both in and out of the classroom how to be who I want to be. They shared both knowledge and experi­ence, always exceeding my increasing­ly heightened expectations. Peers and colleagues provided an environment, more commonly called the Notre Dame Bubble, where I felt safe trying new things without worrying too much about failure. I made mistakes. But I had friends who let me make them and laughed with me at the conse­quences that ensued or commiserated over the lost opportunities. I cannot possibly say how much my friends here have meant or thank them for always being there and knowing how to react to my sometimes difficult-to­read moods. I am leaving with more hilarious memories and ridiculous sto­ries than I can count, and I know I’ll never forget all I learned from my friends here. Rooms aren’t necessary when you can party in the hallways and sleep is vastly overrated when you have time to waste. 
Looking back over four years here, it’s hard for me to separate my under­graduate career from my Observer one. Given how things turned out, most people would probably think that’s a bad thing. It would be easy for me to agree, but I don’t want what ended up being my last week as an Observer employee to define my entire tenure, just as I wouldn’t sum up my college experience based on a test I didn’t do particularly well on. Actually, I don’t think grades are in any way an accurate reflection of my time here. My college experience would not have been the same without the paper: It changed me more than any other activity, class or individual in my four years here. 
I am not the same person who walked into the office freshman year to copy edit Viewpoint, or who hesi­tantly applied for Viewpoint Editor (and, contrary to certain ICPA speech­es, had the ‘privilege’ of counting and reading the hundreds of letters con­cerning Obama’s visit to campus in my last few weeks on the job). I’m defi­nitely not the same person who cockily assumed I’d be given the AME position after a year on Ed Board and allowed that overconfidence to affect the quali­ty of my work. Every day I was chal­lenged by the paper, and it was through undertaking these challenges that I was able to grow into who I am now. 
Ultimately, The Observer allowed to me to show who I have become here at Notre Dame. It granted me the oppor­tunity to prove that all the hype and rankings around the business school and its ethics curriculum are an actu­ality not lost on the students. While resigning was the hardest thing I had to do here, in a way it was a final les­son that I had to learn before my introduction to the real world. Actions have consequences regardless of intention, and those consequences are much easier to accept while still shel­tered inside the Notre Dame Bubble. I have no regrets in how I reacted after the situation arose, and would much prefer that to the alternative. 
I’m still pretending I don’t have to leave the bubble yet. But I know that after I receive my diploma and finally let go, I will be more than prepared for whatever awaits, partially because of Notre Dame, the institution, but much more so because of Notre Dame, the family. And especially because of those annoying nights spent laboring away in the basement of South Dining Hall, hoping to leave before breakfast. 
Kara King is graduating with a BBA in Accounting and a BA in Economics. She still isn’t sure how useful two degrees will be, but figured that she should take the University up on its buy one get one free offer. She would like to thank her parents and siblings for everything. 800 words is not enough space to explain all the help she’s had along the way, but to those she was fortunate enough to know, thank you. Keep in touch. She can be contacted at karaking88@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

‘Keep your fork’ 
When I finished up my last day at work a couple of weeks ago, I thought I had successfully avoided writing a single arti­cle here — apparently not. I would have much rather sub­mitted a graphic detailing my favorite campus eateries (Greenfield’s, Reckers, Decio Commons, and Café de Grásta, in that order) instead of writing a senior col­umn, but that was­n’t an option. 
I will begin by wishing my fellow classmates a happy graduation. I won’t actually be there. During Commencement Weekend I will be rowing with my teammates in Oakridge, Tenn., competing for a top finish at Regionals. I happen to be one of those seniors absolutely dreading graduation, so it real­ly helps that I don’t have to go. (Don’t worry, I will be graduating the next day.) 
I guess I should be thankful that approaching graduation is so painful — it means that my time here was well spent. I can thank my best friends for that: the girls in Pasquerilla West and my team­mates. Our experiences together have shaped me throughout these four years. I finally realized though that when you ask your best friends to help you decide between studying and driving out to Ritters, they will always choose the less productive option. But go ahead and ask them anyway. 
A priest once told me that he knew an old lady who wanted to be buried with a fork. Her reason: to remind her family and friends that after you finish your meal you need to hang on to your fork so you can be ready for when that fantastic dessert comes. Though it would be extreme to equate leaving Notre Dame to death, that woman understood that even when you can’t see past the end, you have to think that the next course will be even better. 

So the lesson here is: keep your fork, the best is yet to come. (You might want to keep your spoon too, because North Dining Hall is known to hide them from time-to-time.) 
We will never be allowed to relive our college experience, but soon we will be able to join the ranks of the thousands of alums who get to enjoy Notre Dame in a different way. 
I’m still nervous for graduation, though. Especially because some of the amenities I enjoy here, I’ve been told, don’t exist in the “real world.” Flex points, for example. Unfortunately, when you start making money they expect you to use it to buy things, too. Also you may have to walk farther than 10 steps to get to a chapel for Sunday Mass. When you live on your own, no one will go around around ring­ing keys to tell you it’s 2 a.m.; you may have to use a clock. Take full advantage of these things now. 
I’ve been trying to look on the bright side, though. Some of our favorite Notre Dame features do exist outside of the bub­ble, like buses that will pick you up right outside of bars, conveniently located Starbucks’ and, most importantly, other Notre Dame fans. 
Thank goodness for Facebook albums; they will help me recall some of college’s greatest moments. 
I’m going to miss this place. But I am definitely hanging onto my fork — because if the best is still yet to come, then boy is it going to be sa-weet. 
Andrea Archer is graduating a day late with a degree in marketing and graphic design. She will return home to Connecticut to live with her parents until they say she can’t anymore, hunting for jobs in advertising. She would like to thank her friends, boyfriend and family for being so supportive while she was “whooshing “ around all the time. 
Andrea encourages everyone to buy The Shirt 2010, because whoever designed it certainly did a fantastic job. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
‘See you later’ 
It’s still surreal to me that this weekend I’ll graduate from Notre Dame. 
Even applying as a senior in high school, I never knew if coming here would actually happen. I didn’t know if my grades were good enough, if my family would be able to pay the way-too-much tuition or if I could move 600 miles away from Atlanta where I hardly knew anyone. 
Four years later it’s still hard to believe some­times. There’s days I still walk around campus and just try and take everything in, and those days have become more common this year and especially in the last few weeks. 
Before I came here everyone told me Notre Dame was a special place. They talked about the campus, professors, football games, the Grotto and Touchdown Jesus. 
But it’s not really those things that make this week bittersweet, and the big stuff isn’t what I’ll miss. I’ll miss a lot of the little dumb things, like throwing the football around the quad before dinner and playing Mario Party on Saturday afternoons. I’ll miss going to Burger King some 30 times this year and only ever getting things off the dollar menu (and after 2 a.m.). 
I’ll miss Christmas parties and playing (and mostly losing) club sports games. 
I’ll miss going to Outback for birthdays, one on one games of beer pong, Flashforward and having seen every Scrubs episode at least four times. I’ll miss getting up at 10 a.m. to tailgate, going to Finnies and “Ridin Solo” and “Rocket Man”. 
Even thinking about my time abroad, I enjoyed hanging out with every­one in my tiny room before going out and getting fish and chips at the harbor for lunch, just as much as the skydiving and crazy nights in Singapore. 
The thing in common with all these little things I’ll miss is the people, and that’s what makes this place what it is. Notre Dame is about them, not the classes, the football team, the Dome and definitely not South Bend. 
That’s why I don’t really want to walk across the stage and graduate — Notre Dame has become my second home and my friends my second family. But it’s our time now, and thankfully the best parts of college will still be a huge part of my life — they’ll just be spread all over the coun­try. 
So thank you to all of you for being part of the best four years of my life, especially the six-man, McGlinn girls, Freo kids and upstairs neigh­bors. 
In the movie “John Q,” Denzel Washington’s character says goodbye to his son after dropping him off at school, and the kid says, “No goodbye, you know I don’t like goodbyes. See you later.” 
I agree. 
So until next time, see you guys later. 
Michael Bryan is graduating with a degree in marketing and is joining the ACE program teaching math at St. Joan of Arc in New Orleans. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 18 Friday, May 14, 2010 
Growing up and moving on 
Cliché as it may sound, I still feel I feel like I only just started it. Bend community — have built me up downs throughout my Observer like I arrived at Notre Dame just yes-The prospect now of not knowing and made me ready to take on what-career as a result of a number of dis­terday. what the future holds is especially ever comes next. tractions, revelations and inspira-
As I wallowed on my bottom bunk daunting. I remember toward the beginning tions, but after a year’s hiatus when I in Lewis, I realize now that I sobbed Looking back at the past four years, of the second semester of my fresh-was in Europe, I, for some reason or into the phone to 

though, I am starting to realize how man year someone told me I would another, decided to come back to the my parents not 
much I have grown and how ready I find my niche by really rethinking paper senior year, and I’m honestly because of the 
am to move on. what I want and being assertive. On so glad I did. painfully lame 
I might be graduating without somewhat of a whim, I picked up an So this isn’t meant to be some kind Frosh-O or 
summa cum laude status, a ring on Observer, obeyed one of those annoy-of cheesy shout out at the paper or because I didn’t 
my finger or a job but I am still feel-ing grey boxes on the bottom of the anything, but I just want to say how have any friends 
ing like much more of a big kid than News section advertising the need for grateful I am for this experience. yet. I was crying 
the wide eyed 19-year-old that I came writers and chatted with then-Editor-I’m going to miss so much about because the 
in as. in-Chief Maddie Hanna. college life, but I’m ready now to minute they And also cliché as it may sound, I Having never written for any kind move on and I’m so grateful for all 
Katie Peralta 
pulled away from owe this feeling to the experience I of publication, I couldn’t sleep the I’ve been given here. campus, I was no had here. night before my first article came Good luck, Class of 2010. I’m really longer just a kid. Assistant Of course the fabulous American out. It’s embarrassing to admit the glad to call you my family now. 
“Going back News Editor Studies faculty I have been privileged fact that I was like a kid on home” would Emeritus to know here (thank you especially Christmas Eve that night, but I some-Katie Peralta is graduating with a mean buying an professors Ardizzone, Meissner, Doss how knew before it even happened degree in American Studies and expensive plane and Schmuhl) and the courses I’ve that I was about to start something Spanish. She would like to say thank ticket and that my bedroom would be taken have contributed to my overall meaningful. you to her family for all of the love turned into a de facto guest room. growth. Of course the papers I’ve Throughout sophomore year my and support and for making it out to The reality of growing up was finally written, the books I’ve read and the friends at the newspaper used to joke South Bend this weekend. A special setting in, and I was not entirely lectures I’ve attended have made me that it was kind of ironic that we thank you to the girls of Marion ready to face it. into a more learned and well-round-were actually college students since Street as well for a great four years 
That feeling of dread at moving up ed individual. everything we did in the basement of and a good luck to the rest of the and moving out is once again setting But the experiences I’ve had out-South Dining Hall (Observer office) senior class. in. It’s strange to think this college side the classroom — from The seemed to trump our actual school-The views expressed in this column life of deadlines, due dates and Observer to studying abroad in Spain work. are those of the author and not schedules is coming to a fast end and to volunteering within the South The good ol’ GPA had its ups and necessarily those of The Observer. 
Beyond the classroom 
Leaving Notre Dame is a mixed bag for a senior getting ready to go out and face the world, but the healthiest way to look at it would be to focus in on the good things that are in our futures. It hardly does any good to look back with sadness and nos­talgia, so one must consider the past with an eye on how we have become prepared for everything that is to come, right? 
We should be proud of our accomplishments, whether it be maintaining a high GPA or landing the big job that we had always dreamed of getting coming out of college, and many of us truly are and deserve to be. 
That being said, who cares? 

As I sit here I listen to my room­mates going through the list of Latin honors for this year’s class, comparing their grades and looking at who received magna and summa cum laudes and I wonder if that is the healthiest way to evaluate what we really got out of our time here. Another friend of mine told me about how she had calculated the exact grade she needed to get on a final exam to end with the GPA she wanted, and how she felt like she was a failure when she did not reach that expecta­tion. 

I am very proud of my accomplish­ments as a student here as well, as I believe I put in some of the hardest work of my life trying to be the best student I could be, but that is not what I will be taking away from this great college experiment that we shared with one another. 
What matters in the end is none of these things, but the relationships we built along the way and the way we changed as human beings. 
I remember coming into Notre Dame as quite the conceited person, believ­ing that I knew everything and that college was just a necessary stepping stone to taking one’s rightful place in the world. Little did I know the hum­bling process that would take place, introducing me to the wealth of knowl­edge that is out there and my truly small place in comparison to the rich­ness of experience that everyone else brings to the table. I was not prepared for this change and was truly rocked by it, but it occurred and I would not have it any other way. 
Who knew that so many different kinds of people were out there and the wealth of different ways to look at how we are able to exist together and form the substantial organizing principles of civilization? Making a trip to Rome for a semester of studying abroad opened me up to so many different ways of doing things, inspiring a love of good cooking, good friend and good wine. 
I would like to think that some of my best memories will come from the classrooms and things that I learned there, but as I look back and evaluate, I realize that I have no interest in those things. What I am going to care about and remember are the times I spent with friends, the PLS lunches that we had in between classes, and the times that I had the opportunity to make a fool of myself in front of every­body. 
I learned my most important life les­sons not from reading Plato or Kant or whatever author or theory of life you chose to subscribe to or study, but instead from my interactions with all those people and classmates around me. 
The point of college was not to pre­pare us for a certain career or to allow us a perfect forum for comparing our­selves to one another, but instead to find our identity in life and to find our niche within the society around us. 
When I meet people in the years to come, I am not going to evaluate them by taking their college GPA or current salary and comparing it against other people’s to determine who was suc­cessful at life and who was not. What I am going to try and determine is how many people that individual cared for and how many people cared about him. That is the true measure of a man, how a person makes someone else’s life better, and a jerk is a jerk no matter what titles and honors you dress him up with. 
So do not lose heart fellow sailors on the voyage of life, if you have lived your life to the fullest so far, then you can only expect things to continue going well. I am looking forward to what is to come, not because I now carry a college degree, but because I have changed into the kind of man I want to be for the rest of my life. 
God save us all. 
Jared Jedick is graduating as a Program of Liberal Studies and psychology double major. He would like to thank everyone who he has ever worked with at The Observer, as well as those who ever read his stories. Age quod agis. He can be contacted at jjedick@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The Observer 


Viewpoint 
Friday, May 14, 2010 page 19 
EXCERPTS FROM PAST ISSUES 
Four Years in Review 
A dream school 
with Catholic 
responsibility 
Reading the article on a dream college, I thought it was well balanced in its comments. I would like to add one that was left out. In addition to the fact that Notre Dame continues to be in the top 10 of this list, it was pointed out that it is the only reli­gious affiliation as well as the only Catholic institution to make the list. This brings with it more visibility and so on. 
This should also bring with it more responsibility to stand up for its Catholic identity. There is more responsibility to repre­sent Catholic values and not take a step back, but to take a step up when called to stand for the truth. To whom much is given, much is expected. If Notre Dame is visible let it be so we can stand and be leaders and uphold what the Catholic church teaches us to stand up for. This responsibility starts at the top. Ask honestly, has this been what has happened in recent times? 
Sue Chambers 
St. Mary’s alumna Class of 1977 March 29, 2010 

Obama speaking 
I am Roman-Catholic, pro-life and middle-upper class citizen with strong leanings toward the Republican Party. Oh, and one more thing: I am ecstatic that the President of the United States is coming to speak at my graduation Commencement. Within hours of the big announcement on Friday, I was receiv­ing infuriating e-mails from my fellow pro-lifers calling for the immediate repeal of President Obama’s invitation to Notre Dame. “We must stand against evil,” said one message. “He supports gay marriage, which is an affront to the family,” read another. “He should not be given this opportunity to confuse our youth.” One message went so far as to compare Obama with history’s most hated villain. The email read: “The German people supported Hitler because he was dynamic and promised jobs and food. There is more to a man than his charisma.” There is also more to a man than his views on the single issue of abortion. Such rash and radical comments not only fail to promote the end of abortion, they undermine the entire pro-life movement. 
In an emergency press release issued by the Pro-Life Action League, National Director and Notre Dame alumnus Joe Scheidler made the following statements: “Over the first two months of his administration, Barack Obama has established himself as the most pro-abortion president in U.S. history. My alma mater should not be providing a platform for this presi­dent. Father Jenkins cannot expect pro-life Catholics to stand back and allow the most pro-abortion president in U.S. history to make a mockery of Notre Dame’s Catholic identity.” As a pro-lifer myself, I understand where Scheidler is coming from; I, too, am concerned for the pro-life movement under the Obama administration. I simply cannot agree, however, with the idea that Notre Dame, one of the finest academic institu­tions in the nation, should deny the President of the United States a platform to speak solely because of his views on abor­tion. Obama is not coming to Notre Dame to speak about abor­tion, nor is his speech supposed to play a pivotal part in the formation of our Catholic identity. 
It is our responsibility, not our Commencement speaker’s, to continue to cultivate our Catholic identity and apply it beyond graduation. The role of a Commencement speaker is to wel­come college graduates into the real world, arm them with knowledge of complex and evolving issues, and inspire them to be passionate and influential citizens of a global community. I simply cannot think of anyone more qualified to do these things than the leader of the free world, President Barack Obama. 
Thus, to my fellow pro-lifers: let us battle the president on each and every issue pertinent to life, but let us not undermine our intelligence and our patriotism by forsaking other impor­tant issues in the reckless pursuit of one. The world will not stop turning for the abortion issue to be resolved. We as Catholics are therefore called to be dynamic citizens who take a multi-dimensional approach to making our world a better place; this means listening and learning from influential world leaders such as Barack Obama. To disinvite the President of the United States based on a single issue, even one as impor­tant as abortion, would be a disgrace both to our Catholic iden­tity and to this great Catholic University. 
Mark Weber 
senior off campus March 21, 2009 
The hook-up culture 

Dear six guys I’ve hooked up with this semester, 
Thank you for the hook-up. It was ... decent. From my experience, it was a typical freshman year hook­up. 
Some of you shamelessly led me on, while with oth­ers it just sort of happened. Obviously, I wanted it too because I definitely didn’t stop you. In fact I love to kiss boys, my roommates and I refer to it as “my hobby.” 
Yes, the hook-up itself was fine, but afterwards we’ve run into a problem. The problem is the dining hall, at parties, the quad and in class. It’s the way that you look at me, with that awkward stare that makes me want to scream “Yes we did hook up once and no we haven’t talked since then!” Other times we see each other and you quickly dart your eyes to avoid eye con­tact or suddenly become enthralled in conversation with the nearest object. To be fair, I think I may have gotten a “hey” from one or two of you before (it’s been a while though, so forgive me if my memory isn’t per­fect). 
What about my number, did you ask for it just as a matter of course? Is it your way of saying, “Thanks for the hook-up, can I have your number so that I can delay your realization that we are never going to speak again?” Well it worked, I gave every one of you my number and haven’t heard from most of you since. How many of you would actually call me if you needed someone to go grab lunch with? Or if you needed help studying for a class that we both have? How many of you haven’t deleted it, or are just now realizing that I must be that mysterious “Melissa” entry in your con­tact list? 
Don’t blame me for not calling you, a broken phone can attest to the fact that I’ve lost most of your num­bers. I doubt you would answer even if I could call you. I’m a good person and an even better friend. But obvi­ously, since we hooked up, it would be too much to ask that we ever consider friendship as an option. Ignoring each other, apparently, is the only choice that we have. 
Of course, I don’t render myself blameless. Our hook-up was the most convenient form of instant grati­fication that we could find. I realize that and I admit to being just as guilty as you are. But next time I smile at you on the quad, or say hi to you in class, can you pre­tend that you haven’t gone both deaf and blind since that night that we met at that party? 
Although I doubt that you are willing to do that, I am sure of one thing: You six guys are where I draw the line. This weekend, and all weekends until I graduate, I refuse to add to this list. I won’t hook up with any more random boys. Not because the act itself wasn’t enjoyable, but because this campus isn’t that big and I can’t afford to have any more boys refusing to look me in the eye when I walk down South Quad. At Notre Dame, I am looking to make friends (not boyfriends, fiancés, or husbands) and hook-ups obviously lead to anything but friendship. I can find a new hobby, hope­fully something that really does make me happy, but I will not hook-up. I’ll see you at the dining hall. 
Sincerely, Melissa. 
P.S. — Don’t worry about our kiss under the arch — unless we move to Utah, it’s unlikely that all six of you will find yourselves married to me. 
Melissa Buddie 
freshman Lyons Hall Nov. 13, 2008 
Time to act on GLBT issues 

As a recent alumnus and member of the 2006-07 Student Senate, it is disheartening to witness the actions — or, rather, inaction on the part of this admin­istration — taking place on Our Lady’s campus. 
The Student Senate passed a resolution in March, 2007 requesting the University add “sexual orienta­tion” to its non-discrimination clause. While I do not personally identify as GLBTQ, I remember strongly supporting the Social Concerns committee chair during Senate proceedings. I was shocked such wording did not already exist. And I remember being a part of the 25-1-1 majority that voted to pass the resolution. 
This publication, The Observer, reported at the time that both the Student Senate and Faculty Senate had passed similar language in 1998. Two Holy Cross schools, King’s College in Pennsylvania and Holy Cross College in Indiana, already included the language at the time. I recall students on campus having civilized and intelligent debate regarding the issue. 
Yet, three years later, we have not progressed. Students, faculty, and alumni continue to support measures to be more inclusive with regard to our GLBTQ brothers and sisters, but nothing is done. It is not news that the administration can be selectively deaf regarding student issues, but 12 years of repeti­tive voices and increasing volume must have an effect. 
Notre Dame, it is time to act. Alumni, students and faculty have done all they can. Now, it is up to this administration to stop dismissing the issue and step up to the plate. Take bold steps to live your “Spirit of Inclusion” in word and deed. Include “sexual orienta­tion” in the University’s non-discrimination clause. Allow the Student Union Board to recognize groups of gay students on campus as legitimate student groups. And if you won’t, you at least owe 12 years of the Notre Dame community an explanation of your rea­soning. Refusing to address the issue — hoping that ignoring it will make it go away — will not cut it any longer. 
Chris Beesley 
alumnus Class of 2008 Jan. 29, 2010 
Original fight song cherished 

At this point, I’ve grown accustomed to biting my lip and grimacing at certain times when Notre Dame stu­dents, faculty and alumni try to instill their opinions, viewpoints and beliefs into others. This has held true until I recently read Caity and Erin Schneeman’s letter to the editor, “Reconsidering the Victory March” (Oct. 30). 
While few people would refer to me as “old fash­ioned,” I am still a firm believer that certain traditions should remain unscathed — above all, the “Notre Dame Victory March.” I’m a proponent for equal rights, yet I can’t help but ask myself the question: Can anything be left sacred anymore? The reason that most Notre Dame fans are fans is because of the tradi­tions and pedigree associated with the University. 
While people are on such a kick to appease the minority by making every tradition as politically cor­rect as possible, they isolate the majority and forget about what most people care about. I’ve witnessed many great Notre Dame traditions die since I started as a student and the very mention of changing the lyrics to the “Victory March” fills me with the same sadness and rage I usually associate with watching Tyrone Willingham coach a football game. 
What’s next? Should we start redrafting the Declaration of Independence because it doesn’t state that “all men and women are created equal”? Words might just be words but like the Declaration of Independence, the “Victory March” has meant a great deal to a number of people and to change it now would be an injustice to every person who has walked the steps beneath the Golden Dome. 
The thing that you must remember, Caity and Erin, is that this University was founded in 1842, not 1972. So, while I find Caity and Erin’s family traditions to be “interesting” and “cute,” I, along with the rest of the Notre Dame family, will continue to sing the original and real version of the fight song written by the O’ Shea Brothers in the early 1900s. 
Honestly, if Caity and Erin feel oppressed or shorted in any way by reading my opinion, then I would like to remind them that the beautiful gates of Saint Mary’s College are always open. Last time I checked, there was no discussion of incorporating a male presence into its fight song. 
Matthew Wrablik 
alumnus Class of 2006 Oct. 30, 2007 
The Observer 

Scene
page 20 Friday, May 14th, 2010 




The leggings were hung on their spindly legs with care, in hopes that a pair of 
Ugg boots would accompany them there. South Bend fashion was fairly predictable this year, but not overtly behind the times, thus proving we are pretty much a staple school in trend-following. Many students worked their clothing on a day-to-day basis, mixing and matching and trying not to outfit repeat for fear the Facebook police would see they wore the same outfit twice. Overall, this year has been fairly decent in the land of style, but as always there is room for improvement. 
Legging/Skinny Jeans with Brown boots/Uggs 
Almost every fashion-oriented girl on campus explored this trend at least once this fall, winter and spring. Never have so many skinny jeans and leggings been congregated in one area over such a long period of time. Ugg should just go ahead and start selling leg­gings or skinny jeans along with its boots because chances are, you won’t find one without the other. 
Plaid Shirts 
Loose, tight, cinched, collared, buttoned or left open, plaid shirts of every color, shape and size spread like a particularly vicious and rampant virus through every girls’ and guys’ dorm this fall. The trend not only pervaded ladies’ wardrobes, but also men’s, making the chances of seeing a matching couple grossly high. Though plaid has pretty much finished its rounds with the females, hopefully guys have their shirts ready to whip out once the leaves begin to change. 
Toms Shoes 
This is one trend Notre Dame can be proud to be a part of. For every pair of Toms Shoes bought, a new pair of shoes is given to a child in need. The compa­ny started in California and has since spread its reach across the country. Toms Shoes are made of canvas or cotton fabric and based off the footwear of Argentinean farmers. They come in a wide vari­ety of colors and patterns but Notre Dame students seemed most apt to sport navy blue, possibly because it is a school color, after all. 


Cel news 
past fo 
has no been a guilty pleasure. It has bee deaths, unhealthy relationships and ic feuds that will surely be remem years to come. 
With the rise of stalkerazzi and gossip websites like PerezHilt details of the intimacies of celebrit have been made public. The wo shocked in 2009 when the rela between singers Chris Brown and crumbled in light of domestic viole many star couples have split be publicized infidelity. Recently, th who cheated with Jesse James, Bullock’s husband, announced his the world, causing their marriag solve. 
One of the most memorable celeb occurred at the 2009 Video Music 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Friday, May 14th, 2010 page 21 

Observer File Photo 

Days before the fall semester began in 2007, two Notre Dame students were shot and wounded while waiting for a ride outside Club 23. 
IAN GAVLICK/The Observer ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 

ESPN’s College GameDay came to Notre Dame in January President Barack Obama was a controversial but memo­2009 for the men’s basketball match-up against the rable campus visitor. Connecticut Huskies. Students camped out overnight in the JACC for a chance to appear on TV. 


IAN GAVLICK/The Observer 

A group of students parades out of DeBartolo Hall on St. Patrick’s Day in 2007. In the last few years, South Bend has experienced sunny weather on March 17, adding to the holiday’s jubilant atmosphere. 
TRAVIS ALLEN/The Observer 
The spoon train became an annual event on South Quad to help get Domers in the record books. 


Vampires 
The vampire bug has official­ly hit America. From tweens to older moms, people are tuning 

in to TV shows like “Vampire Diaries” and “True Blood.” Since the “Twilight” series, the tall, dark and handsome stereotype has been replaced with a new one: sparkly and possessive. Thanks to Stephenie Meyer, mortal men will now never seem good enough. Once the youth of America were entranced by wizards with scars, but Harry and Ron will eventually die, while Edward will always live on. 
Reality Dating Shows 
From “The Bachelor” to “Rock of Love” to “I Love New York,” people love to watch people they have never met embarrass themselves while trying to find true love. And who doesn’t love that one crazy girl who undermines her competitors by back­stabbing and trash talking? Every celebrity who has lost the limelight knows the best way to get America talking is to proclaim from the colorful box in the living room that they need to find someone to love. 
Mystery Dramas 
As Arthur Conan Doyle knows well, people have always loved a good mystery. In this modern era, this love has manifested itself in mystery dramas like “LOST.” For six seasons, JJ Abrams’s creation has entranced scores of people from all walks of life with questions like “Why is there a polar bear on a deserted island?” and “Will Kate end up with Jack or Sawyer?” Unfortunately, the show finally comes to an end on May 24. Hopefully all of the questions will finally be answered. 
Hulu.com 
Life today is hectic and busy. Sometimes is even feels like there aren’t enough hours in the day to do everything important, let alone watch TV. Enter Hulu.com. Almost every TV show is available online to play whenever you would like to watch. Now, if you miss an episode of “LOST” one week because of a big Orgo test you had to study for, you can still be ready for next week’s episode by visiting Hulu when­ever you’d like. Procrastinating has never been so easy. 

ebrity for the our years ot always en full of d dramat­bered for 
celebrity on.com, y couples orld was tionship 
Rihanna 
ence. And cause of e women , Sandra secret to 
ge to dis-
b disputes Awards. 
As Taylor Swift graciously accepted her award for Best Female Video, rapper Kanye West stormed on stage to express his out­rage at her win, and exclaimed that “Beyoncé had one of the best videos of all time.” The world was stunned to see America’s sweetheart awkwardly dealing with the insult, and it attracted a lot of media attention in the days following. 
Sadly, some great talents of our era have passed away in the past few years. In 2006, “The Crocodile Hunter” Steve Irwin died at 44 after being pierced in the chest by a stingray. In 2007, model and television per­sonality Anna Nicole Smith died at 39. Heath Ledger shockingly died at the age of 28 in 2008, before the premiere of the even­tual box office hit, “The Dark Knight,” for which he won a posthumous Oscar for his role as the Joker. In the summer of 2009, celebrity death became a pattern as Ed McMahon, Farrah Fawcett and the Michael Jackson died within a matter of weeks. 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 22 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Friday, May 14, 2010 

WOMEN’S TRACK 

Top individual honors highlight ND season 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
As a team the Irish may have struggled to bring home overall titles this season, fin­ishing sixth at the Big East championships. But many ath­letes found success individual­ly, setting new records along the way. With a season that extends into the summer, they also still have plenty of oppor­tunity for further growth. 
“Although we haven't per­formed the greatest as a team, I believe there have been a lot of personal accom­plishments,” senior thrower Jaclyn Espinoza said. “One thing I will say about our group is we have this amazing ability to perform at Big East championships.” 
Perhaps the best showing for the Irish came from senior sprinter Joanna Schultz, who consistently came in first or second in meets throughout the season in the women’s 400-meter hurdles. She entered the weekend ranked 15th in the country in the 400-meter hurdles with her time of 58.13 seconds, good enough for first in the Big East. At the conference cham­pionships, she not only won her fourth conference title, but also set a Notre Dame and a Big East championships record in the 400-meter hur­dles with a time of 56.82 sec­onds. 
The 4x400-meter relay team of Schultz, senior Samantha Williams, junior Natalie Johnson and sophomore Maddie Buttinger also earned all-Big East honors, taking second place with a time of 3:44.39. The 4x800-meter relay team of juniors Abby Higgins and Kelly Langhans, sophomore Allison Schroeder and freshman Rebecca Tracy finished fifth at 8:53.47 to set a program record. 

Buttinger also finished sec­ond in the heptathlon with 5,278 points. 
Espinoza entered the discus competition ranked 30th nationally and third in the Big East, and earned all-confer­ence honors in the event by taking third place at the championships with a throw of 50.02 meters. 
“I feel like our outdoor sea­son has really just started, and with regionals at the end of May and nationals in June,” Espinoza said. “We still have a lot of time to accomplish big things.” 
Through both the indoor and outdoor seasons, the women have continued to improve not only in the con­ference standings, but also individually in personal time and distance records. The Irish wrap up the postseason June 12 at the NCAA Championships, where the seniors look to end their careers on a high note. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish claim berth in NCAAs 
By LUKE MANSOUR 
Sports Writer 
A Notre Dame team with five all-conference players earned an at-large bid to the NCAA tournament and will take on No. 2-seeded Northwestern tomorrow. 
Junior midfielders Shaylyn Blaney and Jackie Doherty and senior attack Gina Scioscia were named to the Big East all-conference first team, while junior midfielder Kailene Abt and senior defense Rachel Guerrera were named to the all-conference second team. Blaney earned first-team hon­ors for the third consecutive year, while Scioscia earned her second straight spot on the team. 
“We were very pleased to have such strong representa­tion,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. “It’s such a competitive conference, and anyone who gets recognitions has earned it. They have all been instrumen­tal to our success this season.” 
While the recognition of many of the key players on the squad was well-deserved, the Irish had their eyes set on a Big East tournament title. But after falling to Syracuse 12-11 in a heartbreaking loss in the fourth overtime, the Irish (11-6, 6-2 Big East) had to reevaluate their goals. 
Notre Dame and Syracuse engaged in a tightly contested affair earlier in the conference season on April 11, and Notre Dame won a defensive battle, 6-5. Despite the victory earlier in the year, Coyne said the NCAA tournament committee places additional weight on conference tournament victo­ries and titles. 

“I think people look at [the April 11 victory] as a bit of an anomaly, and that bugs me,” Coyne said.” We have a great record, and I don’t think the team is as well-respected as we should be. The roles were reversed last year when they beat us in the regular season, then we beat them in the con­ference tournament.” 
Nevertheless, the Irish breathed a slight sigh of relief Sunday when they learned they would enter the championships for the third time in as many years. The No. 15-seed in the field of 16, Notre Dame will take on No. 2-seed Northwestern (17-1, 6-0 American Lacrosse Conference) Saturday in Evanston, Ill. 
The Irish fell to the Wildcats in the opening round of the tournament in 2004, and again in 2008. 
Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 


MEN’S LACROSSE 

Despite loss to Syracuse, Notre Dame headed to tournament 
included an undefeated regular then-No. 2 Duke confirmed the a combined six goals. Notre big games from season-long 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 

season and the Great Western Irish’s ability to live up to these Dame’s season finale against standouts David Earl and Kevin 
Sports Writer 

Lacrosse League’s regular-sea-expectations, as they never second-ranked Syracuse, broad-Ridgway. 
son and tournament titles. trailed in vanquishing the Blue cast on national television, went “Earl has been consistently 
An inconsistent season did not Maryland upset Notre Dame in Devils by the score of 11-7. Two to the Orange 12-6 as the Irish good. He’s done so many things stop Notre Dame from earning the first round of the NCAA weeks later, Notre Dame again fell behind 5-0 in the first quar-for us,” Corrigan said. its fifth consecutive trip to the tournament, giving the Irish a won a marquee matchup ter and never recovered. “Ridgway’s been playing the NCAA tournament. 15-1 record in the best season against then-No. 10 Loyola in Despite the disappointing other team’s best player week 
The Irish (7-6, 2-4 Big East) in program history and setting Baltimore, 11-9. After the hot fourth-place finish in the Big in and week out.” began the season on a three-high expectations for the 2010 start to the season, however, East, Notre Dame qualified for The team has shrugged off the game win streak. Notre Dame season. Adding to the anticipa-inconsistency began to rear its the NCAA tournament on the inconsistent regular season and then lost two, won two, lost tion was the inaugural season ugly head, and the Irish only basis of its three wins over has bought into the “second three and won two, before clos-of the Big East conference in showed flashes of the form they other tournament teams and season” mentality, looking for a ing the regular season with a men’s lacrosse, with seven tra-had displayed at the season’s drew No. 6-seeded Princeton, fresh start in postseason play to loss to Syracuse. ditional conference rivals start. whom the Irish will visit give themselves a chance at a 
“It’s been a mixed bag,” Irish (Syracuse, Georgetown, “It’s a little surprising in that Sunday. run deep into the tournament. coach Kevin Corrigan said. Villanova, Notre Dame, Rutgers, you generally don’t have the “They’re very talented, and “We’ve gone back to work,” “We’ve played very, very well at St. John’s and Providence) inconsistency we’ve been hav-they’ve got a lot of different Corrigan said. “The guys have times and we’ve played not well forming the inaugural lineup, as ing, not just between games but guys who can make plays,” really applied themselves, and at times.” well as the opening of Arlotta within games,” Corrigan said. Corrigan said. “They’ve got now everyone’s back to 0-0.” 
The Irish entered the season Stadium, the new state-of-the-The Irish won only two games what it takes, and it’s going to with high expectations, coming art home of Irish lacrosse. in Big East play, though three of be quite a challenge.” Contact Allan Joseph off a 2009 campaign that The season-opening trip to their conference losses were by To win, Notre Dame will need ajoseph2@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

House 3 bed, 3 bath, new CONSIDERING ADOPTION? ND Indiana Jones: Get back to Cairo, rehab/clean, so close to ND you ALUMS hoping to adopt. Please get us some transport to England.WANTED FOR RENT can see campus from the yard! PERSONAL visit our website Boat, plane, anything... Meet me at Email alexrock@rock.com! http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro-Omar's. Be ready for me; I'm going 
file.net. after that truck. SUMMER WORK, great pay, flexi-3 BR home, nice area, walk to ND. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do John Rhys-Davies as Sallah: How? ble schedules, no experience need-$725/mo. 574-286-0081. not go it alone. Notre Dame has If you or someone you care about Indiana Jones: I don't know. I'm ed, customer sales/service, ages many resources in place to assist has been sexually assaulted, we making this up as I go. 18+, www.workforstudents.com gradrentals.viewwork.com you. If you or someone you love can help. For more information, visit 
needs confidential support or assis-Notre Dame's website: SUMMER WORK, great pay, flexi-Bed &amp; bkfast, 2 br 1 full bath; Dad &amp; Mom, ask your account-tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at http.csap.nd.edu C-3PO: Sir, the possibility of suc­ble schedules, no experience need-home 10 min. from ND. Any time. ant if student son/daughter can 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For cessfully navigating an asteroid ed, customer sales/service, ages Negotiable rate. Call Kay 574-229-&quot;manage&quot; this 4br, 2b more information, visit ND's web Indiana Jones: We do not follow field is approximately 3,720 to 1. 18+, www.workforstudents.com 6223. house. Call Lois McKinley, Coldwell site: maps to buried treasure and X Han Solo: Never tell me the odds. 
Banker 574-360-6071. http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu never, ever marks the spot. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 

FOR SALE 
Friday, May 14, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Irish fall to Tar Heels twice 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame met North Carolina in the College Cup for the third time in four years, and, for the third time in four years, the Tar Heels ended any Irish dreams of a third National Championship. 
The two storied programs met in the second week of the regular season, in a match-up of the top two teams in the country that served as a grand opening for Alumni Stadium. But within the game’s first 23 seconds, North Carolina found the back of the net, and never looked back, win­ning 6-0. 
“To open the stadium with an unbelievable crowd, fans turned away, I couldn’t have asked for more from the students or the local community. Everybody did their jobs on that opening day, except us,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “It was embar­rassing. I felt humiliated. I felt we let the fans down, let Notre Dame down.” 
Notre Dame (21-4-1, 17-0-1 Big East) lost two more games against top-10 foes the following weekend in California against Santa Clara and Stanford. Suddenly, a team that had reached the College Cup Final in 2008 was 3-3 heading into Big East play. 
“In the end, I think that made our team a lot tougher,” Waldrum said. “It was a rude wake up that we had to get this ship righted pretty quickly here.” 
The 2-0 loss to Stanford would be Notre Dame’s last until the national semifinal against North Carolina. In between, in a 19­game span, the Irish rattled off 18 wins and one double-overtime scoreless tie against Pittsburgh. Winning the program’s 13th con­ference regular season title and 11th Big East tournament title restored some of the team’s confi­dence. 
“To [win the Big East] in a year when everybody was thinking Notre Dame was down, and I think all the Big East opponents 


FENCING 


probably thought that was the year they could beat us,” Waldrum said. “That not only really got us going into the NCAA tournament, but I think the other thing it did was send a message to the Big East that Notre Dame is still the team to beat.” 
In order to send that message, the Irish needed to overcome a series of devastating injuries in the first few weeks of the season. Senior captain Courtney Rosen broke her foot in a fluke accident during preseason practices and missed the entire season. Fellow senior captain Michele Weissenhofer struggled with hamstring issues throughout the entire season, as did classmate Haley Ford. Sophomore forward and leading scorer Melissa Henderson suffered through a slow start to the season after summer surgery. 
“Melissa missed the entire summer where she couldn’t even run or train, so if you look at the first part of her season, just like the team, she got off to a really slow start,” Waldrum said. “But if you look back, she got hot in the Big East and NCAA tournaments. 
I think a little bit is because she was finally coming back into form off those surgeries.” 
In fact, Henderson ended the season with 18 goals and five assists, including 10 goals and two assists in eight postseason games alone. 
Riding Henderson’s hot streak, consistent goaltending from jun­ior Nikki Weiss and that 19-game unbeaten streak, the Irish entered their fourth consecutive College Cup with more confi­dence than ever before, and exit­ed the Cup after the 1-0 loss with more pride than in years past, Waldrum said. 
“We really felt at that point we were playing well enough to win a national championship,” he said. “In years past we have walked away shocked, devastat­ed. This year was the one time that I felt like we probably did all we could to get to that point, we battled hard that entire game, and with a lucky bounce here or there, we could have won that game.” 

Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

ND finishes third in NCAA field 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
After posting a third-place fin­ish at the 2010 NCAA Championship and being the consensus top team in the nation for the better part of the season, most programs would call it another successful year. But after falling short two years in a row to Penn State on the final day of competition, the Irish left the strip with anything but satis­faction. 
“You know it could be a dream year because of the results of the season,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. “We were No. 1 on all polls in the nation, we were breaking all records in a number of victories, and every­thing looked very well. The biggest problem was that we wanted to get the gold medal, but it was not easy.” 
Bednarski attributed this year’s finish to a lack of experience, as the nucleus of the team was made up of freshman and sopho­mores. However, he said he also believes a change in the fencing format from the regular season to the championships was a con­tributing factor. 
Unlike the regular season, the individual team rosters were lim­ited to accommodate the much larger field at the champi­onships. Bednarski said the reduced roster prevented Notre Dame’s depth from playing a sig­nificant factor in the team com­petition. 
“It’s like basketball, when you play five-on-five for the regular season, and then in the last match for a final it’s done two­on-two,” Bednarski said. “It’s changing the situation — it’s more random.” 
Nevertheless, sophomore Gerek Meinhardt picked up the gold medal in the individual foil competition, while sophomore foilist Enzo Castellani and junior sabreist Avery Zuck both earned bronze medals. Sophomore Courtney Hurley took home the bronze medal in the epee. 
“I have to focus hard against every competitor,” Meinhardt said. “Because I’m at the top, people want to bring me down.” 
Bednarski said Meinhardt, the youngest U.S. male Olympian in 2008, brings much-needed expe­rience and poise to a young team. 
“Experience in the Olympic games shows two things,” Bednarski said. “First, it shows that you are a good defender who can play at the highest level of professional fencing. Second, it shows that you can fight on the big stage in front of all the cam­eras. This will bring calm to a young team that can easily get nervous.” 
Although nothing is certain in sports, Bednarski expects next year’s squad to be laden with tal­ent and battle-tested for the big moments. 
“Each year is different because we don’t know who will come to support them [players] next year,” head coach Janusz Bednarski said. “We know that we have a core team that is very strong and very young.” 


Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
HOCKEY 
Losing record marks disappointing season 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
A year removed from a No. 1 ranking and a disappointing loss in the opening round of the NCAA tournament, expectations were high for Notre Dame in 2010. 
An inept offense and a strug­gling defense led to a 13-17-8 record for the Irish, the pro­gram’s worst since coach Jeff Jackson’s first season in 2006. One of the most accomplished senior classes in school history left on a rare low point. 
“As seniors and four-year players, I think they were proba­bly most disappointed in our season,” Jackson said. “I think that they did everything in their power. … For the most part, they stood by the convictions that we built in the program in their first three years here.” 
The senior leadership, specifi­cally captain Ryan Thang, center Kevin Deeth and defensemen Brett Blatchford and Kyle Lawson, contributed to a three-year run in which Notre Dame won two CCHA championships, reached another CCHA tourna­ment final, and, in 2008, made it to the NCAA Championship game. Jackson said their men­tality on the ice was the deciding factor in most of these accom­plishments. 
“Kevin Deeth did a lot to make sure that we never backed down from a situation,” Jackson said. “They had a lot to do with that [success]. They contributed a lot.” 
Those four stayed healthy for most of the season, but for large portions of the year Jackson employed a defensive line con­sisting of one or more wings and centers. The lack of manpower put many of the underclassmen on the ice in unique situations, something Jackson said he hopes will lead to positive results in the future. 
“I have to hope that between those freshmen and sopho­mores, there is some growth because they showed signs of a lot of positive attributes and hopefully the year’s experience is going to help them move for­ward,” he said. “We have to hope that all those younger play­ers are going to come back with that experience under their belt and make a positive contribution next year.” 
In many cases, the underclass­men made positive contributions this past season. Junior wing Calle Riderwall led the team in scoring with 19 goals and eight assists, while sophomore wing Billy Maday added seven goals and 14 assists and freshman wing Kyle Palmieri finished tied for second on the team in goals scored with nine. 
“In many cases, with youth comes enthusiasm,” Jackson said. “Those guys will be the guys leading the way offensive­ly.” 
In goal for the Irish for most of the season was freshman Mike Johnson. Johnson showed great promise early in the season, stopping 27 of 28 shots in the CCHA opener against Ohio State, a 3-1 victory. But in Notre Dame’s last game, an 8-2 loss to that same Buckeyes team in the first round of the CCHA tourna­ment, Johnson gave up four goals in the first period. 
“He showed signs of brilliance early on, but his lack of consis­tency hurt him and caught up to him,” Jackson said. “Our team wasn’t scoring as anticipated, and that put more pressure on him. I think that finally wore on him.” 

Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Kammrath leads balanced offense 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
With only one senior to rely on, Saint Mary’s turned its inexperience into success en route to an appearance in the MIAA tournament semifinals. 
Picked to finish third in the conference in the MIAA coaches’ pre-season poll, the Belles opened their confer­ence schedule 5-2 before a late losing streak caused them to finish the season at 10-8 in the MIAA, 15-12 over­all. 
“After graduating four sen­iors in ‘09, and returning Anna [Kammrath] as our only senior for the 09-10 season, I knew we would be very young,” Belles coach Jennifer Henley said. “I think as the season continued, we matured as basketball players and found our chemistry.” 
That chemistry resulted in a 61-59 win over Albion in the first round of the MIAA tour­nament, but the Belles lost to Calvin, 90-71, in the next round. 
Saint Mary’s relied on a bal­anced offensive attack throughout the season, led by sophomore Kelley Murphy and her 14.2 points per game. Three other Belles averaged double-digits. 
Kammrath, averaging 11.0 points per game, nearly aver­aged a double-double, as she also tallied 9.8 rebounds per game this season on her way to many school records, including most rebounds in a game (23), most steals in a game (9) and most rebounds in a career (863). 
“I think you have to recog­nize Anna Kammrath for all that she has done in her career,” Henley said. “As far as statistics go, Anna had her best season as a senior break­ing several records along the way.” 


Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, May 14, 2010 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Successful season ends in Sweet 16 OT loss 
Returning veterans complemented by strong freshman class, including rookie superstar Diggins 
By CHRIS MASOUD drive wreaked havoc in the Sports Writer lane, and forward Erica Williamson’s size provided 
Heading into the 2009-2010 support under the basket. season, expectations couldn’t Despite the obvious talent have been higher for a team on the floor, McGraw believes laden with talent and experi-their intangibles were just as ence, but with little to show valuable to a team preparing for it. Notre Dame had not for the next stage of its devel­advanced past the first round opment. Confidence, determi­
of the NCAA Tournament nation, and mental toughness since 2008, the program was — each senior understood the breaking in a new home court value of those traits, and and the squad featured four each brought her own version starting seniors and a num-to the court every time she ber of questions about the laced up. future. “They were the type of 
Yet the Irish met each chal-players that were very hard lenge in turn. Notre Dame workers,” McGraw said. advanced to the Sweet 16, “They come in with a great falling to Oklahoma in a gut-work ethic, they were deter-wrenching overtime loss. The mined to succeed, and they team finished with a 16 -1 were team players. They record in the newly renovated were very steady and consis-Purcell Pavilion, notching a tent in their attitude and record six sellouts. Finally, approach to practice and the squad’s future success games.” appears safely secured in the Whether in the classroom hands of freshman sensation or in the gym, the senior tan-Skylar Diggins, who put dem represented the together one of the most com-University in a way that many plete rookie campaigns in student-athletes strive to imi­program history. tate, but so few can deliver — 
In the eyes of Irish coach excellence in the classroom Muffet McGraw, it was a pret-first, and success on the court other.” “The first ever Gameday her [Diggins] to come in as a ty good year. a close second. Motivated by a first-round was here [Notre Dame] for a freshman because she was 
“I was really pleased with “They were excellent stu-loss at home in the NCAA football game, and that’s kind able to learn from a very 
the season,” McGraw said. “I dents, all five of them,” Tournament in 2009, Notre of how the whole Gameday strong class,” McGraw said. thought we achieved our McGraw said. “Never any Dame began the season look-thing got started,” McGraw “She didn’t ever have to feel potential, we improved worries about them in any ing to run the table. And for a said at the time. “So it’s kind like she had to do it all. She throughout the year. way. They were great leaders while it did, winning its first of fun that Notre Dame is was able to ease in the col-Individually, we had a lot of who always had a great atti-15 games and peaking to the involved in the first historic lege game and play her game people who really had good tude, were a confident bunch, No. 3 spot in the AP polls event, now for women’s bas-without worrying about a lot years, which of course trans-and made it easy for the rest before falling on the road on ketball.” of other things that the team lated into the team’s success. of the team to follow them. I Jan. 16 to a Connecticut team While the season’s success just took care of. They helped I thought our senior leader-think because they were such who would eventually win it can be traced to the talent her in a lot of ways, and gave ship was outstanding — just a strong leaders, it leaves some all. and resolve of the senior her free reign to be creative great group that we’re going big holes for us next year.” Regardless of the game’s class, it would be difficult to and figure things out on her to miss in so many ways next Whether it was making the outcome, the Irish made imagine Notre Dame’s high-own.” year on and off the court.” extra pass or being the first women’s basketball history by light film without the rookie Lechlitner said she believes 
Leading Notre Dame to a one off the bench to congrat-becoming the first team, Diggins taking center stage. the ability of the seniors to 29-6 (12-4 Big East) record, ulate a teammate, great alongside the Huskies, to be A 2009 McDonald’s All -maintain their composure the senior class brought a chemistry and a close team featured on ESPN Women’s American and the highest-and poise in the midst of a number of tangibles to the dynamic translated into wins Basketball College Gameday. ranked guard coming out of difficult situation was espe­floor — great ball-handling on the court. College Gameday made its high school, the South Bend cially helpful to their younger skills, the ability to shoot the “First and foremost, I think debut in 1993 as Notre Dame native had lofty expectations teammates, who looked to ball from behind the arc, and all of us bring leadership,” hosted Florida State in a placed upon her from day follow in their example. finesse in the post. Guards Barlow said. “We ’ve been matchup of the top two foot-one. “We’re just a steady force,” Melissa Lechlitner and Ashley here four years, some of us ball teams in the country, and Diggins not only cracked Lechlitner said. “When adver-Barlow provided the offense even five. We just get along McGraw said the players the starting roster during the sity’s thrown or a game might from the perimeter. Guard with each other, we know appreciated the significance Paradise Jam in late be getting tight or we’ re Lindsay Schrader’s dribble-how to work well with each of the event. November, but was named down a little bit, I think the 
MVP of the tournament. steady hand that we offered Diggins went on to lead the for them allows them to play Irish in points (13.8 per within themselves and excel game), assists (112), and from that point.” steals (90). Although the future is 
While McGraw came to bright with Diggins running expect Diggins’ contributions the offense, the Irish lose a 
on the offensive end, her cast of seniors that finishes rapid development into a as one of the most successful threat on defense continued in program history. While to impress the coach as the they never made it to the season progressed. Final Four, the seniors put 
“That was the part that sur-together four years of high-prised me I think — the octane basketball that Irish defense on the ball,” McGraw fans are not soon to forget. said. “She really set the tone As the squad begins the for the defense, and that was task of discovering a new something that we worked on identity and filling out the last year at the end of our four remaining starting spots, season, to try to really focus McGraw believes a talented this year on a much more group coming through the intense, aggressive defensive. pipes should be a factor in Skylar was a huge part of the mix. that.” “I expect that we will start 
Yet not even Diggins’ raw with the players who came off talent alone could have gar-the bench for us this year and nered her All-Big East Second see how quickly the freshmen Team honors and an AP All-are ready to challenge them,” American honorable mention. McGraw said. “We have some The seniors’ greatest legacy depth, but we have a lot of may not be their own individ-inexperience. We’ll see by the ual contributions, but their time the Big East rolls around success in developing Diggins if the freshmen are pressur­and the other underclassmen ing to get that starting spot.” into legitimate Big East com­petitors in the years to come. Contact Chris Masoud at 
“It was a perfect time for cmasoud@nd.edu 



Friday, May 14, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish fall to Cardinals in conference tourney 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will wrap up its season with an appearance in the NCAA Tournament when they face Wisconsin in the first round today. The Irish head into the postseason match after finishing in second place behind Louisville in the Big East championships. 
“While I was proud of the way we competed against South Florida in the semis because they had beaten us during the season, the goal was to win the champi­onship and we did not reach that goal,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “The USF match was played at the South Bend Racket Club, rather than at the Eck. This pre­sented some problems for us in that several of the courts were much faster than ours.” 
Unable to adjust back to the home courts, the Irish fell to Louisville 4-0 in the finals. 
“The match against Louisville was a lot closer than the score,” Bayliss said. “We had excellent chances to win each of the unfin­ished matches, but a closer score was not our goal, and they clearly deserved to win. Give them [Louisville] credit, as they have stayed at or near the top 10 all year long.” 
Although a conference title was out of reach, the Irish turned in another successful season under Bayliss’ direction in his 23rd sea­son at Notre Dame. A key for the Irish has been the emergence of the bottom of their lineup, which has pulled out some big wins for the Irish. 
Included in this group were sophomore Samuel Keeton, jun­iors Daniel Stahl and David Anderson and freshman Blas Moros. 
“Sam Keeton has learned to get to the net and finish points, which makes him a threat to beat any­one he plays in the NCAA Tournament,” Bayliss said. “Dan Stahl held his own at No. 3 and showed significant improvement in doubles. Blas Moros got on quite a roll near the end of the season. David became a very solid point as the season developed.” 
Losing only two seniors and adding a talented group of recruits, the Irish look to be even stronger next season regardless of the outcome at the NCAAs. 
“Adding at least two freshmen who are capable of contributing immediately makes playing time pretty competitive for everyone,” Bayliss said. “That can really gal­vanize a team, but it can also dis­courage some, so handling that situation well will be critical for us. Clearly I am looking for every­one to buy in and make next year a special one.” 


Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Ties carry ND into NCAA 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame began its 2009 season with a 1-0 exhibition win over Northwestern and ended it with a 3-1 loss to Northwestern in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. In between was an up-and-down season, but it proved momentous for the program in a number of ways. 
“I always say that a successful season is when you play the last game and you’re playing for something very meaningful,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “Obviously when we played Northwestern, we actually played a very good game. I thought the players played their hearts out, but it wasn’t to be.” 
The season began with the opening of Alumni Stadium, where then-No. 10 Notre Dame defeated No. 21 Michigan 5-0. 
“Playing in the new stadium was fantastic,” Clark said. “I thought that made it very spe­cial in many ways. I don’t think any of the players at the open­ing game against Michigan will ever forget. It was a great game, playing against one of our rivals, beat them 5-0 on a beau­tiful evening in a beautiful new stadium.” 
In that game, however, fifth-year captain Cory Rellas went down with a knee injury 10 minutes into the action. This disappointment was amplified just a few weeks later, when sophomore Aaron Maund and freshman Dillon Powers left to play in the under-20 World Cup in Suez, Egypt. This left the team shorthanded to begin Big East play. 
“It was great for them, great for the program,” Clark said. “Not many teams even had one. Eleven college players in the 22 that went to Egypt, and for us to have two of them was impres­sive. But the downside of that was you lost them for four weeks. 
“So then you go on … We had a few things in our face, but I thought the team stayed togeth­er. We had good depth in the squad.” 
The Irish finished 8-3 in the Big East, coming in just behind Connecticut in the Blue Division standings. With its NCAA status in doubt, Notre Dame went into the Big East tournament with something to prove and ended up in the finals despite not win­ning a single game to get there. 
The Irish tied South Florida 2­2 and Louisville 0-0 in the quar­terfinals and semifinals, advanc­ing through both games with shootouts. 
Against St. John’s in the con­ference championship, the final score was again a 0-0 tie, but the Red Storm won the shootout and the title. However, Notre Dame’s play was good enough to earn an NCAA berth. 
“It’s always good to go to the final of the Big East tourna­ment, so that was another posi­tive. Getting into the NCAAs for the ninth year in a row, not many teams can say that,” Clark said. 
While the season ended with the loss to Northwestern, the team’s success did not end — three players were selected in the MLS draft in January, and one later signed a professional contract. 
Forward Bright Dike, the Big East offensive player of the year, was drafted in the first round by the Columbus Crew. Midfielder Michael Thomas and left back Justin Morrow were drafted in the second round by the San Jose Earthquakes, though Thomas opted to go abroad and is now playing in the Swedish first division. Goalkeeper Andrew Quinn later signed with 
D.C. United. 
“It wasn’t just they went to the pros — they all graduated, and I think that’s very telling,” Clark said. “To send a player to first-division in a European country, that’s a statement right there.” 
Despite the loss of a strong senior class, Clark said he is cautiously optimistic about his 2010 team. 
“You lose some very good players, but if you’re a good team you can be losing players every year and then if you’re doing your work right, you should be replacing them with good players,” Clark said. 


Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

page 26 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, May 14, 2010 
Friday, May 14, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
BASEBALL 
ND overcomes slow start in Big East play 


By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Following a dismal start to the regular season, Notre Dame needs to win seven of its last eight games to finish the season above .500. In a year plagued by injuries and mis­fortunes, Irish coach Dave Schrage said the seniors have taken it upon themselves to salvage the remain­der of the season. 
“I feel like they’ve known that their backs are against the wall,” Schrage said. “Two weeks ago they found themselves at the bottom of the Big East, and we’re climbing. They’ve really responded over the last couple of weekends.” 
The Irish (21-26, 6-15 Big East) began the season with a weekend sweep of Mississippi Valley State on the road to open the season. But after posting a 5-16 record during a four-week stretch, Notre Dame’s dreams of its first conference title since 2006 and an appearance in Omaha quickly evaporated. 
But after spending time with hit­ting instructor and assistant coach Scott Lawler, the hitters regained their form midway through the season. 
“We got back to the process of taking the pitch up the middle, hit­ting everything back up the middle, moving runners, hitting behind runners, hitting and running,” Schrage said. “When we do that we’re a very, very good offensive club.” 
After opening the conference season with a 1-5 mark, the Irish proceeded to win seven of their next 12 Big East games, earning series victories over Seton Hall and Cincinnati, before a recent slide against St. John’s and West Virginia. Schrage believes the squad has taken a short-term approach to the season, which has made all the difference. 
“I know it’s cliché, but we’ve just been focusing on getting better every day and trying to be the best team we can be,” Schrage said. “We told our guys we don’t want to talk about Omaha or winning the Big East. We want to talk about getting better every day.” 
The seniors led Notre Dame’s resurgence on the mound and at the plate. Ryan Connolly has been the most consistent hitter, leading the squad with a .367 average, 11 home runs and 36 RBIs. Senior David Mills has contributed in just about every facet of the game, from driving in game-winning runs to shutting down the opposition in critical situations. 
“He’s done a tremendous job on the mound,” Schrage said. “He’s had some clutch hits. I don’t think you can ask much more of a player. He’s done a great job in relief, and now he just continues to get some big hits for us — just having a great season.” 
Sitting in the bottom half of the Big East standings after a five-game losing streak, including a three-game sweep at the hands of West Virginia, the Irish will have to make a late push in order to secure a top seed in the Big East Championship, which begins on May 26. Nevertheless, Schrage is confident his seniors can right the ship and finish the season on a winning note. 
“We talked that they had a month left in their careers and they want to make something happen, and they’re going out and doing it,” Schrage said. “They have a lot invested in this program, and they want to make their last year spe­cial. I’m expecting them to step up again.” 


Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Improved Belles reach playoff goal 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
Entering the 2010 season, Belles coach Erin Sullivan expressed three challenges for her team to accom­plish. Sullivan hoped to win 20 or more games, qualify for the MIAA tournament, and have a team grade point average of 3.3 or higher. 
Saint Mary’s accomplished two of the three during a double-header against Calvin on April 28. In sweeping the twin-billing, the Belles earned wins 20 and 21 to earn a place in the conference tournament. 
Nevertheless, Sullivan is hopeful that her team can achieve all three goals this season. 
“We were looking at the semester break with a 3.25 … I am confident we will get the GPA goal as well.” 
Although the squad was ousted in the conference tournament in a 3-2 loss to Adrian, Sullivan said the pro­gram has taken a significant stride this season. 
“We truly establish ourselves as an excellent program in being able to compare ourselves to excellent teams like Alma, Adrian and Trine,” Sullivan said. 
The catalyst to the Belles’ success­ful tournament run this season was their prolific offense. Every starter in the line-up had a batting average over .300, as the squad had a con­ference-best .356 batting average. 
“I was really proud of how well this team has done offensively this season,” Sullivan said. “They have been a fun group of hitters to watch this season.” 
Senior outfielder Ashley Peterson was a key factor in the team’s offense Peterson set the MIAA con­ference record for home runs (eight) and RBIs (31) in a single season. She also won conference position player of the week honors three times and led the league in batting average. 
The Belles will be losing three seniors this season — Peterson, shortstop Maureen Healy and catcher Sara Montelongo. 
“All three have taken this team on their shoulders and put it upon themselves to show everyone how playing as a team, believing in your­self and achieving goals is what makes this game so great,” Sullivan said. 


Contact Michael Todisco mtodisco@nd.edu 

Friday, May 14, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 28 
Saint Mary’s: Year in Review 
Soccer hires new coach; Slupczynski leads volleyball to .500 record; tennis claims fifth in MIAA tournament 
Observer Staff Report 
Soccer 
After finishing the season with a record of 4-13-2 (1-6 MIAA) to mark another disappointing cam­paign, the Belles dismissed head coach Ryan Crabbe in the hopes of changing their recent misfortunes. Saint Mary’s now hands over the reins to Michael Joyce to take the program back to excellence. 
The Belles closed out the final portion of their season by losing all three conference contests, includ­ing a 4-2 loss to rival Hope, and falling short of a conference tour­nament bid. 
“Against Hope we put ourselves in too big of a hole to come back from,” Crabbe said. “Being down 3­0 in the second half is tough. The team competed and brought the game back to 3-2. However, we fell victim to some bad officiating and Hope gained a late 4-2 advantage. The way the game was officiated was really unfair to both teams.” 
The Belles opened the season with a 3-0 win over Holy Cross and a 5-1 win over Manchester, but were unable to maintain that suc­cess over the course of the whole year. 
Under the new leadership of Joyce, the Belles will be looking for big plays from underclassmen to help lead the team in the fall of 2010 and build upon their dismal conference record. 
Crabbe’s tenure lasted at Saint Mary’s for only two years, yet he facilitated the development of freshman backup goalie Adele Bruggeman late in the season. Bruggeman managed to log some playing time for the Belles this sea­son, as senior goalkeeper Patty Duffy leaves the goal for good. 
“She [Bruggeman] has worked very hard,” Crabbe said. “Our goal­keeper coach Marc Colwell has done a tremendous job with both Adele and Patty this season.” 
Losing nine seniors, the Belles face a significant rebuilding task ahead of them under Joyce’s direc­tion. The program doubled its win total from last season, and looks to build on that improvement in the upcoming season with a new coach, a new core group of leaders and new underclassmen. 
Volleyball 
The Belles climbed to a .500 record after battling through the first half of their conference sched­ule, but several key injuries led to an eight-match losing streak to end the season with a 9-17 record. 
“This season we were able to play at such a high level with everyone on the court healthy,” Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. “We did not end up in the confer­ence where we would have liked. However, we played well as a team.” 
While the injuries hurt the team’s overall performance, it did afford several players the opportunity to gain experience during a tough 5­11 conference season. 
“We had a lot of players that were able to step out of their com­fort zone and fill big roles on the court when key players were injured,” Kuschel said. “We will be looking for our returners to bring that kind of energy, commitment and dedication into next season. I know they are more than up for the challenge.” 
Kuschel said the element of the season that most pleased her was the amount of heart the Belles showed amid the adversity that presented itself late in the season. 
“This season our team had to overcome many challenges,” Kuschel said. “We could have just given up. However, that was just not in our nature. Everyone gave it all they had every time they stepped out on the court. They showed a lot of heart.” 
The driving force behind the Saint Mary’s team this year was the strong corps of veteran leadership, especially from the seniors. 
“I can’t say enough great things about this year’s group of seniors,” Kuschel said. “I came into this year not knowing what to expect being a new coach here at Saint Mary’s. They have truly been a joy to work with. I have certainly grown a lot as a coach in my first year and they have a lot to do with that. They were fantastic leaders and role models for their younger class­mates.” 
Senior Lorna Slupczynski was named to the first team all-MIAA squad for the first time. She fin­ished her career with the Belles with three consecutive seasons with 300 kills, finishing with 1,360 kills for her career. She also had three seasons with over 300 digs, and had 1,311 digs in her career. 
Next year, Saint Mary’s will be healthy and ready to attack the MIAA schedule with a renewed fer­vor. The Belles will return several key players and welcome new additions as well. 
“We will also have a solid group returning next season,” Kuschel said. “We will be looking for a few key freshmen to add depth and strength to our offense next year.” 
Cross Country 
Saint Mary’s had a successful season, but was ultimately denied its ultimate goal of cracking into the top three of the final MIAA con­ference standings. The Belles fin­ished fourth for the third consecu­tive year after another up-and­down season. 
“Our goal was to get top three in the MIAA, but I would still consider this year a success,” senior Megan McClowry said. “I think that in the next few years this team will achieve the goal they set for them­selves.” 
The Belles concluded their sea­son at the NCAA Division III Regionals, where they finished in 17th place. Freshman Julia Kenney finished a strong rookie campaign with a 61st place overall finish at the regional tournament. Sophomore Joanne Almond fin­ished right behind Kenney at 63rd. 
McClowry provided a steady vet­eran presence on the team, as she turned in many solid performances this year after earning all-MIAA honors in 2008. Almond also was able to build off her previous strong performances, as she finished sec­ond for the Belles in both the con­ference and regional tournaments. 
“We have a lot of good under­classmen who really stepped up, and I think their contributions will be vital to improving next year,” McClowry said. 
One of the highlights of the sea­son for the Belles occurred at the Calvin Invitational, where the team took sixth place overall thanks to many breakout performances. Saint Mary’s showed its mettle in a meet that featured many of the top cross country teams in the nation. 
“After a hard week of training we ran against some of the top D­III teams in the country,” McClowry said, “But we came away with a slew of personal records while maintaining a tight pack through­out the race.” 
With a strong combination of vet­erans and underclassmen poised for a strong season in 2010, Saint Mary’s appears ready to make a run at the top three teams in the conference. For the graduating seniors like McClowry, their experi­ence as varsity runners is one they are not soon to forget. 
“I was able to develop friendships with an amazing group of women,” McClowry said. “Whether it was running into Lake Michigan after a race, celebrating with teammates at their weddings, or just eating dinner together, I have loved being a part of this team.” 
Swimming 
The Belles certainly did not envi­sion a winless season when they first hit the water in October, but an eight-point loss in mid-January was the closest Saint Mary’s got to a victory. 
Sophomore Audrey Dalrymple, 2009’s top swimmer and national qualifier, went abroad for the spring semester, and her absence, combined with a variety of injuries, handicapped the Belles. Nonetheless, a strong freshman class emerged for the Belles. 
“It was a hard transition because we had so many incoming fresh­man and nobody knew each other,” freshman Ellie Watson said. 
In the beginning of the season, Belles coach Alicia Dombkowski predicted Watson and classmate Katie Griffin would add strength to the roster and viewed a national cut in their future. 
Watson ended the season with second-place finishes in the 500­and 1,650-yard freestyle events at the MIAA championships, marking a school record in the 500-yard freestyle with a time of 5:09.90 and achieving an NCAA B cut in the 1650-yard freestyle with a time of 
17:47.70. Her efforts throughout the season earned her a position on the 2010 All-MIAA Team. 
Also in the MIAA Championships, senior Meredith Lierz ended her career with a 15th-place finish in the consolation final of the 100­yard freestyle at 55.99 seconds, senior Maggie McNicholas took 12th in the 200-yard butterfly at 
2:45.83 and senior Sara Niemann took 12th in the 1,650-yard freestyle. 
“By the end [of the year] we were like one family. We bonded really well throughout the season espe­cially on our training trip during Christmas break,” Watson said. “We've been through a lot with each other, which helped the team as a whole.” 
Tennis 
Although Saint Mary’s lost in the first round of the MIAA tourna­ment, the Belles ended the season by winning five of their final six matches. 
“Despite our fifth-place finish in the conference, I think we had a decent season overall,” senior Camille Gebert said. “I definitely think we could have done a lot bet­ter, as I believe we were close with teams like Albion and Kalamazoo.” 
The Belles (13-9, 6-5 MIAA) ended their season with a win in the MIAA tournament over Olivet in the fifth-place match. Gebert was named first team all-MIAA and junior Jillian Hurley was named to the second team. 
“Overall, the season was success­ful, even if the outcomes of our matches were not what we had hoped,” Hurley said. “As a team, we bonded together better than we have in previous seasons.” 
In the past, Saint Mary’s had hov­ered in the middle of the MIAA standings. Coming into the season, the Belles felt like this was their year to rise to the top in the confer­ence, but the 2010 campaign resulted in more of the same. 
“We all had hoped this to be the year we would beat the teams we always lose to and get over the hump,” Gebert said. “I think that more has to change if we want to finish in the top three or four teams in the future.” 
Part of that needed change will only come from learning from their losses Hurley said. 
“I think going into the season we expected to fare better against cer­tain teams in the conference,” Hurley said. “But even in the matches we lost there was improvement over last season.” 
The Belles traveled to Orlando, Fla., over Spring Break, and came home with victories in four of their five matches. 
“We started our season off strong, winning a lot over Spring Break,” Gebert said. “But we had a tough stretch of matches the sec­ond half of the spring.” 
Despite the ups and downs, the one constant for the Belles was their consistent and full-hearted effort in both preparation and exe­cution. 
“Our team has a very strong work ethic,” Gebert said. “We all love the sport and I think that real­ly shines through when we play.” 
Hurley was a consistent bright spot for the Belles. At one point during the season, Hurley had won 10 straight matches at No. 1 singles and 11 straight matches at No. 2 doubles with junior Mary Therese Lee. 
“Being named all-MIAA was really rewarding,” Hurley said. “It was nice to be recognized for a good season along with other out­standing players in the conference, including my teammate, Camille [Gebert].” 
Gebert said her final season as a Belle was a special one because of her all-MIAA accolades and for the culmination of a career’s worth of memories playing for Saint Mary’s. 
“I was really excited about being named all-MIAA again,” Gebert said. “It had been a goal of mine since the beginning of the season. It had more meaning, especially being a senior. There is a lot of tal­ent in the MIAA and I am honored to be recognized.” 


Friday, May 14, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Late-season surge propels ND to NCAA berth 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Writer 
With its season on the brink and its best player on the bench, Notre Dame responded by winning its final four regu­lar-season conference games and two Big East tournament games to secure a No. 6 seed in the NCAA Tournament. 
All -American senior for ­ward Luke Harangody went down midway through the second half of Notre Dame’s Feb. 11 loss at Seton Hall, which dropped the Irish to 6­6 in the Big East with eight games to play. Notre Dame then lost its next two games to St. John’s and Louisville by a combined three points with­
out Harangody. The 91 -89 double -overtime loss at Louisville on Feb. 17 repre­sented a turning point, how­ever, as senior guards Tory Jackson and Ben Hansbrough and junior forward Tim Abromaitis stepped up to lead the Irish to a near-upset in one of the conference’s tough­est places to play. 
as Notre Dame turned a 35­27 halftime lead into a 52-30 advantage in the first six min­utes of the second half. The Irish won the game 68 -53 behind 10 -for-18 shooting from 3-point range. 
“I think just being patient on offense was a key for us,” Abromaitis said after the game. “There were a lot of possessions that went down to single digits on the shot clock and we waited until we had the best look we could possi­bly get.” 
Three days later, the Irish went on the road to No. 11 Georgetown, where Notre Dame handed the Hoyas a 78­64 defeat to get back to .500 in the Big East. After a quiet first half, Hansbrough scored Notre Dame’s first 10 points of the second half in a three-minute span to put the Irish up 41-30. The Irish built a 50-38 lead and saw it cut to 50-46 before 3-pointers by Jackson, junior forward Carleton Scott and Hansbrough built the advan­tage back up to 59 -46, at which point Notre Dame 

A week later,  “There were a lot of  pulled away.  
No t r e Da me’s s e a s o n c h a n g e d f o r  possessions that went down to single digits  I n i t s n e x t g a m e , t h e h o m e f i n a l e  
good.  on the shot clock and  a  g  a  i  n  s  t  
B e f o r e t h e I r i s h h o s t e d N o . 1 2  we waited until we had the best look we could  Connecticut on March 3, Notre D a m e o v e r - 
Pittsburgh on F e b . 2 4 , t h e  possibly get.”  came a pair of d o u b l e -d i g i t  
still-sidelined H a r a n g o d y w a s t h e f i r s t  Tim Abromaitis Irish forward  f i r s t -h a l f deficits behind J a c k s o n ’s 2 0  
player induct­ s e c o n d -h a l f  
e d  i n t o  t h e  points  to beat  

school’s “Ring of Honor,” as the sliding Huskies, 58-50. his No. 44 now hangs from The win ensured the Irish at the rafters. At the time, it least a .500 Big East record looked like Harangody might — a benchmark Brey often have played his final game for said would be good enough the Irish, with NCAA for an at-large NCAA berth. Tournament hopes and a shot But the Irish weren’t done at a Big East tournament run stating their case yet. They looking dim. closed the regular season 
But then the Irish intro -with a thrilling overtime win duced their new “slow burn” at Marquette on March 6 in offense, which was a stark Harangody’s return. Scott hit contrast to Irish coach Mike a buzzer-beating 3-pointer to Brey’s typical fast -paced force overtime, Abromaitis scheme. The change of pace had 18 points and Harangody paid off against the Panthers, played 11 minutes off the bench, scoring five points and grabbing two rebounds. 


The four-game win streak propelled Notre Dame to the No. 7 seed in the Big East tournament, securing the Irish a first-round bye before playing No. 10 -seed Seton Hall in a game dubbed by some as a play-in game for the NCAA Tournament. Harangody made an impact for the first time since his injury with 20 points and 10 rebounds off the bench in a 68-56 second-round victory. 
“The last couple of days of practice have been great for me, just to get back in the flow. Kind of get my condi­tioning back up to where it has been,” Harangody said. “I feel right now that I started to get a little bit of swagger I had before the injury, a little more of the confidence. I feel great with the guys out there.” 
The Irish won their sixth straight the next night by beating No. 2-seed Pittsburgh, the nation’s No. 16 team, for the second time during the streak. Notre Dame’s slowed-down offense was the difference in the 50­45 victory that sent the Irish to the semifinals of the tour­nament, against West Virginia. 
Harangody and Jackson each had 12 points in the defensive struggle. 
“Our interior defense and ball-screen defense has been the most consistent since I’ve been here,” Brey said. “I guess when your life is on the line, you’re really good at it.” 
No. 7 West Virginia, the tournament’s No. 3-seed, ended Notre Dame’s win streak and its hopes of reach­ing its first Big East tourna­ment title game in a 53-51 
Irish loss that was probably 1:49 remaining. closer than it should have Hansbrough’s 17 points led been. Jackson missed a 3 with all scorers, and Scott scored four seconds to play after an 14 points and added 10 11 -2 Irish run cut West rebounds. Virginia’s lead to 48-47 with In his final collegiate game, 
2:58 remaining. Harangody was held to four 
Notre Dame learned its points — both in the final 12 NCAA Tournament fate on seconds. March 14, surprising some by “He got the two fouls and I 
g r a b b i n g  t h e  t h o u g h t  h e  
N o . 6 s e e d i n  c o u l d  n e v e r  
t h e R e g i o n .  S o u t h T h e  “It just sounds so  really get into a f l o w, ” B r e y  
I r i s h w e r e a s s i g n e d t o p l a y N o . 1 1 -s e e d O l d  simple, but we had some really clean looks. You’ve got to  s a i d o f H a r a n g o d y . “ A l s o , w h e n you’re playing  
D o m i n i o n  i n  make some shots.”  a g a i n s t  z o n e  
N e w  O r l e a n s .  for long peri- 
The Monarchs p u l l e d t h e u p s e t , 5 1 -5 0 ,  Mike Brey Irish coach  ods of time, it’s probably a lit-t l e h a r d e r t o  
on March 18.  establish him,  
A pair of six- y o u  k n o w,  
minute  score- offensively.”  

less droughts in the second Despite the disappointing half doomed the Irish, who finish, the Irish senior class of made only six of 26 3-point Harangody, Jackson and attempts, including two of 12 Jonathan Peoples leave as the in the second half. Scott’s winningest class in school his­game-tying 3-point attempt tory, with a 93 -43 record, rimmed out in the final sec-including a 43-27 mark in the onds as the Monarchs com-Big East. pleted the first-round heart-Harangody became a three-breaker. time All-American — Notre 
“It just sounds so simple, Dame’s first since Kevin but we had some really clean O’Shea in 1948-1950 — after looks. You’ve got to make being named a consensus sec-some shots,” Irish coach Mike ond-team All-American for Brey said. “We’d been a good the second time in his career. shooting team. It’s not like He was the first Irish player I’m saying something the per-to score 2,000 points and centages say we can’t do or grab 1,000 rebounds, and his haven’t done.” 2,476 career points and 1,222 
The Irish held a 28-22 lead career rebounds both rank at halftime, and after Scott second in the Notre Dame his-scored the first points of the tory books. half to give Notre Dame a 30-The Irish finished the sea­22 lead, the Monarchs posted son 23-12 and posted a 10-8 a 9-0 run over six minutes to record during the Big East take a 31-30 advantage. Scott regular season. broke Notre Dame’s second six-minute drought with a 3 Contact Matt Gamber at to tie the game, 46-46, with mgamber@nd.edu 

page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, May 14, 2010 
FOOTBALL 

Second straight 6-6 regular season dooms Weis 
back Tate Forcier’s five-yard 
By MATT GAMBER 
touchdown pass with 11 sec-
Sports Writer 
onds remaining. Junior running back Armando 

Notre Dame failed to finish Allen ran for 139 yards but was the regular season above .500 injured late, and the Irish were for the third straight season in unable to run out the clock and 2009. This time, it cost former had to punt the ball away with Irish coach Charlie Weis his job. 2:13 to play. Clausen threw for 
The Irish began the season 4-336 yards and three touch­1, just as they did in 2008. And downs, and Floyd and Tate com-then the Irish dropped five of bined to catch 16 passes for 246 their last seven to finish 6-6 — yards and three touchdowns. again, just as they did in 2008. “This feeling right here,” That drop-off ultimately led to Clausen said, “is not going to Weis’ dismissal on Nov. 30, two happen again.” days after Notre Dame lost its Sure enough, the Irish man-season finale at Stanford. aged to avoid that feeling the 
“As you look at the entire next week, surviving a late course of the season, it led you Michigan State surge to beat the to the conclusion that you visiting Spartans, 33-30. couldn’t have enough confi-Clausen was impressive again, dence that a jump up was immi-throwing for 300 yards and two nent, that you could know with touchdowns, including 127 sufficient certainty that next yards and a score to Tate. On a year’s results would be signifi-second-half scramble, Clausen cantly different,” director of suffered an apparent foot injury, athletics Jack Swarbrick said but did not miss a snap. Notre following the dismissal. “And so Dame did lose Floyd to a broken I think that was probably the collarbone and needed senior tipping point.” safety Kyle McCarthy’s intercep-
Notre Dame opened the sea-tion at the 4-yard line with less son with a bang, thrashing than a minute to play to hang Nevada, 35-0, at home on Sept. on to the victory. 
5. Junior quarterback Jimmy “In the past, what might have Clausen threw for 315 yards happened is when we went and four touchdowns in the down in the second half, it game, which featured an offen-might have been deflating,” sive outburst similar to Notre Weis said. “But not this team. Dame’s last contest, its 49-21 This team just expects they’re victory over Hawaii in the going to come back and make a Hawaii Bowl on Dec. 24, 2008. play and win.” 
“How do you keep momentum At Purdue the following week, The Irish began a three-game back Dave Shinskie but inter-33-30 double-overtime heart-rolling from a game that was so Clausen, whose foot injury was home stretch the following week cepted him three times. breaker to a reeling Connecticut long ago? A lot of it has to do worse than it initially appeared, and won their third straight nail “The story of our season, the squad dealing with the death of with hunger. These guys are came off the bench to throw a biter, topping Washington 37-30 game coming down to the last a teammate. The Huskies had hungry,” Weis said. “This was game-winning, two-yard touch-in overtime. Junior running five minutes,” said Tate, who two different players eclipse their first opportunity to show down pass to sophomore tight back Robert Hughes’ overtime caught 11 passes for 128 yards 100 yards rushing, and the Irish that they’re a different team. It end Kyle Rudolph on a fourth-touchdown run gave Notre and two touchdowns. “It’s keep-surrendered their second kick-was just a good start.” and-goal with 24.8 seconds to Dame the final lead. But the ing people at home and making off return touchdown of the sea-
Sophomore wide receiver play. Sophomore quarterback story of the game was the Irish sure they continue to watch the son in the loss. Tate broke sin-Michael Floyd caught four pass-Dayne Crist played most of the goal-line defense, which game. I don’t know, I can’t tell gle-season school records for es for 189 yards and three 24-21 victory and led two stopped the Huskies six straight you why, but it says a lot about catches and receiving yards in touchdowns, as the Irish touchdown drives. times with the ball inside the 1-us. We don’t give up.” the game. amassed 510 yards of total “[Clausen] actually wasn’t yard line in the fourth quarter. The following week, on “I really feel absolutely miser-offense and led 28-0 at halftime. supposed to play in the second “We’re just clutch,” Tate said. Halloween night in San Antonio, able for those 33 [seniors],” 
“It’s the first game,” Floyd half,” Weis said. “He took some “We’re a clutch team. In the the Irish finally posted a Weis said, declining to answer said. “You have to show the medication at halftime, and we trenches we know what to do blowout victory by beating one-questions about his future after nation what kind of team Notre tried to run a lot of shotgun for-and we’ve been doing a good win Washington State, 40-14, in the loss dropped the Irish to 6­Dame is and how we are going mations so it would take pres-job of that, I think.” an offsite home game. Hughes, 5. “I’ll worry about me tomor­to do everything.” sure off his footwork. At the After a bye week, the Irish put starting in place of an injured row. But I think today I should 
The No. 18 Irish hit the road beginning of the fourth quarter, their three-game win streak to Allen, ran for a career-high 131 be worrying about them.” the next week to play at rival he said he could go and when the test in a highly anticipated yards, while Clausen threw for In what seemed likely to be Michigan in Ann Arbor, where the game got to that situation, I Oct. 14 home date with No. 6 268 yards before giving way to Weis’ final game, the Irish con-the Wolverines pulled out a 38-listened to him and went ahead USC. Clausen almost led Notre Crist. Crist threw an impressive cluded their season with a 45­34 victory on freshman quarter-and put him in there.” Dame to another comeback vic-64-yard touchdown pass to 38 loss at Stanford. Cardinal 
tory, but the final Irish drive fell sophomore wide receiver John running back Toby Gerhart four yards short in a 34-27 Goodman before going down torched Notre Dame for 205 Trojans win. with a torn anterior cruciate lig-yards rushing and three touch­
“Coming up short, one second ament that would sideline him downs while also adding an 18­to go, it’s heartbreaking,” until spring practice. yard touchdown pass. Clausen said. The highs of the Washington “There’s a bunch of 22, 23­
Notre Dame trailed 34-14 State victory were immediately year-old young men right there early in the fourth quarter but erased with the lows of a second finishing out their career losing scored two touchdowns in six straight home loss to Navy, the last four games,” Weis said minutes to close the gap with which topped the No. 19 Irish, in a postgame radio interview. 
7:28 to play. Clausen threw for 23-21, to begin Notre Dame’s “They feel miserable and I feel 260 yards and two scores, and second consecutive November miserable for them.” Tate caught eight passes for 117 slide and end its hopes of a Weis was fired two days later. yards and two touchdowns in Bowl Championship Series In addition to Weis and the the game. (BCS) run. Irish seniors, it turned out to be 
“I think anyone that doesn’t “It’s a heartbreaking loss,” the final games for Clausen and realize the fight that’s in the said Clausen, who threw for 457 Tate, who declared for the NFL Fighting Irish is missing the yards but turned the ball over in Draft on Dec. 7. Clausen fin-boat. It’s evident if you watch the red zone twice. ished his junior season with the last five games. Every week The Irish dropped their sec-3,722 yards passing, 28 touch­it’s the same thing,” Weis said. ond straight the next week at downs and four interceptions. “This team’s a bunch of fighters. No. 8 Pittsburgh, as Tate’s two Tate caught 93 receptions for I’m proud of the fight. I’m dis-fourth-quarter touchdowns 1,496 yards and 15 touch-appointed with the loss, it’s weren’t enough to erase an 18-downs, and he scored 18 total never OK to lose. But they’re a point deficit, and the Panthers touchdowns in 2009, resulting bunch of fighters.” prevailed 27-22. The loss was in the junior earning the 
The 5-2 Irish used the week of Notre Dame’s eighth straight Biletnikoff Award given to the Fall Break to prepare for Boston against a top-10 team and nation’s top receiver. College, which had beaten Notre dropped Weis to 1-10 against Both Clausen and Tate were Dame six straight times. In ranked teams since 2006. A second-round selections in the another game that went down conservative game plan saw the 2010 NFL Draft, with Clausen to the wire, junior linebacker Irish score only three points in going to the Carolina Panthers Brian Smith’s interception with the first half before Clausen and and Tate to the Seattle 98 seconds to play sealed a 20-Co. got going. Seahawks. 16 Irish victory. The defense The losing streak continued gave up 279 yards passing to with Notre Dame’s second Contact Matt Gamber at 26-year-old freshman quarter-straight loss on Senior Day, a mgamber@nd.edu 



FOUR YEARS IN REVIEW 
Friday, May 14, 2010 The top 10 Observer sports stories from the 2006-2010 academic years page 31 
1 Weis fired after five seasons; Kelly hired 

After leading Notre Dame to the most losses in a three-year span in program history, Charlie Weis was fired on Nov. 30, 2009, and a mere 11 days later, director of athletics Jack Swarbrick named Brian Kelly as the 29th football coach in Notre Dame history. 
Weis held the reigns to the football program for five years, accumulating an overall record of 35-27. After going 9-3 in his first season and earning an appearance in the Fiesta Bowl, Weis was granted a 10-year 
December 1, 2009; December 12, 2009 
contract extension through 2015. 
Nonetheless, two home losses to Navy and consecutive Senior Day defeats to Syracuse and Connecticut spelled the end of the Weis’ time leading his alma mater. 
A secretive coaching search result­ed in the hiring of Kelly, fresh off an undefeated regular season at Cincinnati in his third year with the Bearcats. 
Previously, Kelly was the head coach at Central Michigan for three seasons, leading the Chippewas to a Mid-American Conference in 2006. Kelly began his head coaching career at Division II Grand Valley State, tal­lying a 118-35-2 record over 13 sea­sons. 
Kelly brought Bob Diaco, defensive coordinator, and Charley Molnar, offensive coordinator and quarter­backs coach, along with him from Cincinnati to lead his coaching staff and reunited with Chuck Martin, now defensive backs coach, who took over as head coach at Grand Valley State when Kelly left. 

Football endures2 disastrous season In the worst start to a season in Notre Dame history, the Irish limped to an 0-5 record. It all started with a 33-3 home loss to Georgia Tech. The debacle contin­ued with identical 38­0 losses to rivals Michigan and USC. The Irish won their last two contests to finish 3-9 but did not come close to earning a trip to a bowl game.  3  Clausen, Tate enter NFL Draft Quarterback Jimmy Clausen and wide receiver Golden Tate, both juniors, declared for the NFL Draft after setting numerous indi­vidual records in just three years at Notre Dame. Projected as a likely first round selection, Clausen waited until the 48th pick for the Panthers to draft him in the second round, and Tate went 12 picks later to the Seahawks.  Icers go to 4 NCAA title game After winning its first CCHA title in 2007, the hockey pro­gram continued its resurgence under coach Jeff Jackson. The Irish just sneaked into the NCAA Tournament but capitalized by qualify­ing for the first Frozen Four in school history. They then topped Michigan to advance to the title game, where they fell to Boston College.  
Nov. 5, 2007  Dec. 8, 2009  April 10, 2008  
Swarbrick takes 5 over AD position  6  Women’s soccer goes to four Cups  Basketball7 ranked in top 10  
On June 1, 2008, then-director of ath­letics Kevin White announced that he would be leaving Notre Dame to assume the same position at Duke. Six weeks later, Swarbrick was hired as the 12th athletic director in the school’s history. He was previously a lawyer instrumental in the Indianapolis sports scene.  The women’s soccer program reached four consecutive College Cups, falling twice in the finals and twice in the semifinals. In 2006 and 2008, the Irish fell to North Carolina in the nation­al championship, both times by a 2-1 score. In 2007, Florida State beat Notre Dame 3-2 in the semfinals, and in 2009, North Carolina beat the Irish 1-0.  The Irish were ranked No. 9 in both preseason polls and rose as high as No. 7 early in the 2008-09 season that had Final Four aspirations. Things started to unravel, though, as a seven-game losing skid sent Notre Dame plum­meting down the rank­ings. The Irish ended the season ninth in the Big East, and were not invited to the NCAA Tournament.  
July 16, 2008  Dec. 4, 2009  Oct. 15, 2008  
Football snaps 8 bowl losing skid Not re D am e earned its first bowl victory in 15 years on C h r is tm as Eve against Hawaii. Q u a r t e r b a c k Jimmy Clausen com­pleted 22-of-26 pass­es for 406 yards and f iv e tou ch d o wns , both I r ish bow l records. Re c eiver Golden Tate had six ca tch es for 177 y ards a n d th r ee scor e as the d uo shared MVP honors.  9  Fencing finishes second twice A f t e r a f o u r t h -place finish in 2007, t h e I r i s h f i n i s h e d j u s t s h o r t i n t h e N C A A C h a m p i o n -shi ps in 20 08 and 2009, falling to Ohio S t a t e a n d P e n n State, respectively. T h e I r i s h f e l l short again in 2010. After holding onto th e No . 1 ra n k i n g f o r a f u l l s e a s o n , Notre Dame falls to third in the NCAA championships.  New facilities10 constructed After hosting Irish athletic events for over 40 years, the south dome of the Joyce Center received a reno­vation in the summer of 2009 and reopened in October as the Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center. New facilities for lacrosse, soccer, track, softball and hockey were also completed in the past two years or are in the works cur­rently.  
Dec. 24, 2008  March 17, 2008  Oct. 6, 2006  

page 32 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, May 14, 2010 
Observer File Photos Top left, freshman Skylar Diggins talks with coach Muffet McGraw in a preseason game against Indianapolis before leading the Irish in scoring during the season. Top right, Brian Kelly addresses the media for the frst time as the new Irish coach. Center, Kyle Rudolph catches the game-winning touchdown pass from Jimmy Clausen at Purdue. Bottom left, Frenchy Silva celebrates with teammates during a perfect 14-0 conference season. Bottom right, Josh Sandman takes his approach before claiming frst at the Irish Gridiron Golf Classic. 
Friday, May 14, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 33 
Observer File Photos Top left, former Irish coach Charlie Weis walks off the feld following a loss at Stanford, his last at Notre Dame. Top right, Tory Jackson reacts following a frst-round elimination loss in the NCAA Tournament to Old Dominion. Center, Michele Weissenhofer takes a last look at the feld after a second consecutive loss to North Carolina at the College Cup. Bottom left, Kevin Deeth lets it fy during a loss to Providence in coach Jeff Jackson’s second--worst season at Notre Dame. Bottom right, Frank Desico tracks down a ball in an extra-inning loss to Rutgers. 
page 34 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, May 14, 2010 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

ND delivers all season, earns conference title 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Under Irish coach Jay Louderback, the trophy case for the women’s tennis program has become a bit crowded. 
The Irish added a new load of hardware in late April, claiming the 2010 Big East title in addition to several individual awards. Louderback earned Big East Coach of the Year honors, sophomore Kristy Frilling was named the Big East Player of the Year and fresh­man Chrissie McGaffigan garnered Big East Freshman of the Year hon­ors. 
The awards came at the tail end of a dominant season for the No. 6 Irish, who carry a 22-3 record heading into the NCAA Championships. After an early loss in the regular spring season to North Carolina, the Irish staked their claim as one of the top teams in the country by defeating then-No. 1 Northwestern 5-2 on Feb. 21. 
“We lost two weekends before to North Carolina, which kept us out of the National Indoor Championship,” Louderback said. “Our kids were definitely down. Then Northwestern came in, and we turned around and played very well. We saw that day that we can play with anybody.” 
The squad rode the momentum from the Northwestern match, win­ning 15 of its final 17 matches. A highlight for the team came during Spring Break, as the Irish traveled to Puerto Rico for a couple of matches, finishing 1-1 on the trip. 
Riding a four-game win streak into the Big East tournament, the first to be hosted at Notre Dame, the Irish reeled off three dominating victories, including a 4-0 sweep of DePaul in the finals to notch the 10th championship in program his­tory. The Irish did not drop a singles match in the tournament. 
“Towards the end of the season, we changed around our lineup a bit,” Louderback said. “Our doubles teams got really comfortable with each other and the chemistry was great. We were so tough to beat because if we win the doubles point, we go into the singles up 1-0, and it’s tough to win four singles match­es against our players.” 
Pacing the Irish all season at first singles and first doubles was Frilling, posting a 41-5 combined record between the two slots, including a 19-5 record at the chal­lenging No. 1 singles position. Frilling stepped up to replace last year’s Big East Player of the Year, former Irish No. 1 Kelcy Tefft. 
“Her move from two to one sin­gles was big for her,” Louderback said. “She knew she’d be playing a good player every match and that really helped her mentally.” 
Backing up Frilling at the other slots was a talented cast, including sophomore Shannon Mathews, McGaffigan and a host of talented seniors including Kali Krisik and Cosmina Ciobanu. 
“I was worried about [Mathews and McGaffigan] playing two and three because they were injured in the fall,” Louderback said. “They couldn’t prepare, so it’s almost like learning on the job. As for the sen­iors, their poise under pressure in big matches was excellent.” 


Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 

Belles poised for national title run 
By LUKE MANSOUR 
Sports Writer 
Coming off yet another successful season that saw the program earn its second consecutive MIAA confer­ence title, No. 5 Saint Mary’s seems poised to earn a top-five finish in the NCAA Division III Championships. 
Saint Mary’s earned its second straight automatic berth to the NCAA Tournament on Tuesday thanks to a huge second day at the MIAA qualifier. Trailing conference rival Olivet University by five strokes, the Belles tore up Blackthorn Golf Course in South Bend and ended the day leading by 28 strokes. 
“I believe our team has the poten­tial to be the best in the country if we work hard and perform to the best of our abilities,” sophomore Natalie Matuszak said. “However, I think it’s an honor and a great achievement in itself that we made it to the tournament.” 
The Belles’ road to the NCAAs certainly had some ups and downs, as the team felt they could have played better in a few tournaments during the season. 
“I think there were a couple of tournaments we would have liked to have played better, but overall we had a great season,” Matuszak said. “We pulled together as a team and continued to prove that we are a strong team all the way through the lineup.” 
Some of the top players on the Belles included Matuszak and jun­iors Mary Kate Boyce and Rosie O’Connor. All three were mainstays in the top three positions in Belles coach Mark Hamilton’s lineup throughout the season. 
With many experienced players on Saint Mary’s roster, the team expects a big finish to its season down in Howey-in-the-Hills, Fla. The NCAA Tournament consists of four separate rounds, and the Belles will need to be sure to retain their focus throughout the long and ardu­ous competition. 
“I’d say this year has definitely been a success,” Hamilton said. “We lost two number one players along the way, so there was a bit of adver­sity, but you would be hard pressed to find a team that can lose two top players and qualify for the national championship.” 
As the season comes to a close, Matuszak said she will miss the time spent with such a talented group of seniors. 
“We really become like a little family, and so it’s hard to see the seniors go at the end of the season,” Matuszak said. “Although I am sad this season is coming to an end, I am excited for the NCAA Tournament because I think we are about to post some of our lowest scores yet.” 


Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 


Friday, May 14, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 35 
Kelly 
continued from page 40 
Kansas City Chiefs on Jan. 8. Notre Dame started 6-2 in 2009 but dropped its final four games — including home losses to Navy and Connecticut — to finish the regular season 6-6 for the second straight year after a 3-9 showing in 2007. 
“For many of you who may have thought that was a fore­gone conclusion, I would say to you that the decision was hard­er than you might have thought, principally because of the man it involved,” Swarbrick said on Nov. 30, 2009. “I hope we can find somebody who loves this University as much as he did, does, and who cared as much about his student athletes as he does.” 


Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


Lux 
continued from page 40 
numerous as well. She is the only player in conference his­tory to record 60 runs, 80 hits and 60 RBIs in a career, and she holds the top spot in career RBIs (66) and home runs (24) in conference play. 
Despite the long list, Lux said breaking records never gets old. 
“It’s exciting every time,” she said. “I honestly still don’t know half the records I break until I break them and [the coaches] are like ‘Oh congrat­ulations, you broke two records today!’ and I’m like ‘What records are they?’ 
“I don’t really like to focus on stats so much, because you just start getting in your head, and softball’s so much of a mental game as it is and I don’t want to add more pres­sure to myself about beating records. If we win, I’m happy. That’s pretty much my reason for being out there.” 
She has been out there since her freshman year, when she played in 45 games, starting 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish run through Big East slate undefeated 

41. 
“Some people got injured and I got the chance to play, which was a great opportunity and I kind of took advantage of it and I’ve been able to play since, which has been great,” Lux said. 
In the early part of her career, Lux said she did not tournament title since 2006 and an automatic NCAA berth. 
“It ended on a double play, it was a close game, close game and finally double-play, bang -bang, it’s over,” Lux said. “It was one of the biggest highs I’ve had in my life. It was so exciting, 

f e e l p r e s- b e c a u s e a t  
sured, despite  N o t r e Da m e  
having estab­ I’d never won  
lished herself as an impor­t a n t p a r t o f  “I honestly still don’t know half the records  a big champi­onship. We’d n e ve r w o n  
t h e I r i s h  until I break them and  r e g i o n a l s ,  
offense. “Ye s, t h e c o a c h e s d i d  [the coaches] are like ‘Oh congratulations, you  w e ’ d n e v e r w on t h e B i g E a s t, u n t i l  
w a nt m e t o  broke two records  last year, and  
perform well, but I was still  today!’”  it was amaz-ing.”  
a sophomore and the team  Christine Lux  L u x w a s named to the  
a t t he tim e  Irish frst baseman  a l l -t o u r n a ­ 
was dominat­ m e n t t e a m  
ed by upper- that year, and  
c l a s s m e n , ”  sh e e a r n e d  

By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
A perfect 19-0 home record and a 19-3 in-conference record will give No. 25 Notre Dame a boost heading into the Big East tournament and the rest of the 2010 postseason. 
“Going undefeated at home was definitely one of our team goals at the beginning of the year,” Irish assistant coach Kris Ganeff said. “We’re only the second team in the history of the program to do that.” 
The Irish (44-9) suffered through some ups and downs before dominating the Big East season, which ended with the team clinching a share of the regular-sea­son title with DePaul. 
first-team all-Big East honors to go along with her All ­American distinction. 
Now, Lux is one of just three seniors and the only one who will graduate — seniors Lex Clay and Heather Johnson are both eligible for one more year. Lux said all three have been important leaders for the 2010 team. 
“The three of us right now are a solid group of players who have had a ton of experi­ence under our belt,” she said. “And we have a calm mentality that kind of just transcends through the team. And they feed off of it, so they’re relaxed and calm. They don’t get all crazy if we’re not doing well. I think the level-headedness and the experience we bring has real­ly helped the team this year.” 
The three have led the team to its most successful season in years, helping the team to a 44-9 record and a share in the Big East title. 
“Finally, all the work that our team has done has paid off and has shown,” Lux said. “In the previous three years, we’ve put in the hard work but the results haven’t really come through, but this year we are dominating in all respects of the game and we’re finally making a name for Notre Dame softball. 
“And it’s just exciting to be a part of that and have this be my last year. I wouldn’t have chosen another team to be a part of.” 


Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
“The early “Going undefeated at Ganeff said. tournaments “She wants to 
home was defnitely
were more of get to that 
one of our team goals
the time for us World Series to prepare, to at the beginning of the and she’s not be ready,” going to stop 
year.” 
Ganeff said. until she does “We want to her part with feel like we Kris Ganeff that.” got all the Irish assistant coach The Irish will shutouts. She is now Notre Dame’s all-time leader in wins from the mound in a single season. Valdivia threw one no-hitter, March 27 against Seton Hall, and tallied a few one-hit­ters along the way as well. 
“Jody has really stepped it up this year for the team,” Ganeff said. “After two years of being the No. 2 pitcher on the team, she really learned the ropes.” 
Junior Sadie Pitzenberger led the team offensively with a .409 batting average, while senior Christine Lux’s 55 RBIs led to her breaking the pro­gram record for career RBIs. 
“Lux overall has just been phenomenal, and this year is no different from the rest. She’s steady and consistent and she’s been that way for all four years,” 
she said. “The underclassmen weren’t that great of an impact at the moment.” 
Lux began to take on more of a leadership role on the 2009 team, which upset DePaul for its first Big East kinks ironed out, because really how well you do in the conference is what counts when we go into the post sea­son,” 


Notre Dame needed a 12­game winning streak to coun­teract a slow 1-4 start to the season. 
“That first tournament we didn’t play anywhere near the expectations we should have been playing at,” Ganeff said. “The girls knew that weekend wasn’t representative of what we should have been playing like on the field.” 
Notre Dame saw this win streak come to a close with a 2-1 loss to San Diego, but once the team returned to South Bend, it won the next 11 games. 
Junior pitcher Jody Valdivia led the Irish to 75 percent of their victories, finishing up the regular season at 35-4 with an ERA of 1.74, including nine only be losing 
Lux this year as seniors Lex Clay and Heather Johnson each have one year of eligibility left and will return next season. 
“We’ll definitely feel the loss of losing the home run leader and first baseman; that’s a big hole to fill,” Ganeff said. “The younger people on the team are going to have a chance to step up. Hopefully, those play­ers should easily fill in those roles, so the program can con­tinue the way it has been going.” 
The Irish began the Big East tournament Thursday against Providence, but results were not available at press time. The tournament will continue through Saturday. Notre Dame will begin the NCAA Tournament with regionals on May 20. 


Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

page 36 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, May 14, 2010 
Notre Dame: 

Volleyball finishes conference play perfect at 14-0; women’s swimming earns 14th consecutive Big East title 
Observer Staff Report 
Volleyball 
Early exits in both the Big East tournament and the NCAA tour­nament could not diminish Notre Dame’s accomplishment of going undefeated through the Big East regular season. 
“We [were] very pleased with the season,” said Irish coach Debbie Brown, the AVCA Division I Northeast Region Coach of the Year and the Big East Coach of the Year. “We had a strong start and had an incredibly strong run through the Big East regular sea­son, going undefeated in confer­ence.” 
The Irish (21-7, 15-0 Big East) claimed sole possession of the Big East regular season champi­onship before falling in the con­ference tournament semifinals to Louisville, and then to Ohio in the first round of the NCAA Tournament. 
The losses, however, don’t trump all of what Notre Dame accomplished this season. 
“Our side out efficiency was strong all year for us,” Brown said. “We had great offensive options and the experience of the seniors was a huge positive factor. We improved in every aspect of the game. Our offense got stronger, we blocked more balls and held our opponents to low hitting percentages and our pass­ing and serving were solid.” 
The team’s six seniors led the team throughout the season, on and off the court. 
Tara Enzweiler, Megan Fesl, Christina Kaelin, Kim Kristoff, Jamel Nicholas and Serinity Phillips, who were named the nation’s fifth-best recruiting class when they entered the program as freshmen, worked to make the entire team close — which cer­tainly paid off for the Irish, Brown said. 
“Our team chemistry was strong. They were always there for each other,” Brown said of her players. “They had the motivation to play hard for each other. It was easy for them to celebrate when their teammates did well and natural for them to pick up their teammates when they strug­gled.” 
Kaelin, Phillips and Nicholas earned first team all-Big East honors and junior Kellie Sciacca was named to the second team for the second consecutive sea­son. All four also earned all-region honors. 
Kaelin finished the season tied for sixth in league play for kills, including 11 double-figure kill performances. She posted a career-high 20 on Oct. 10 against Cincinnati. Nicholas finished her Notre Dame career with 3,094 assists, the fifth-most in school history. A versatile Phillips posted at least 16 kills in five conference competitions. She also was the 18th player in Irish history to record at least 1,000 career kills with her total of 1,154 over four seasons. 
Sciacca, the Northeast Region’s Freshman of the Year in 2007, led the conference in individual hit­ting percentage. 
Brown said the outstanding individual performances led to two events that defined the sea­son. 
“Two things come to mind immediately,” she said. “Certainly our win over Stanford was huge and set such a good tone for us for the season. Additionally, our undefeated run through the Big East was particularly rewarding. It was a huge accomplishment and we were able to do it because the team was so committed to making it happen.” 
Before falling to Louisville on the Cardinals’ home court, 3-2 (24-26, 25-16, 18-25, 25-16, 15­13), in the conference tournament semifinals and the first match of the tournament to go five sets, the Irish were on a 15-match winning streak, tying the second-longest in program history. 
Ending the season in the first round of the NCAA Tournament was not the ideal end for the Irish, but they didn’t go down easy, again falling 3-2 (23-25, 25-16, 20-25, 25-15, 15-7). 
"I believe we played the best we could at the time,” Brown said. “We were physically down with three of our starters at less than full strength. We gave all we could and fell short. It was disap­pointing for the season to be over, particularly since we had such a good run throughout the rest of the season.” 
None of Notre Dame’s success couldn’t have happened without the strong leadership and skills of its seniors, Brown said. 
“As I’ve said on so many occa­sions throughout the year, the seniors were absolutely critical to the success of the team,” she said. “They have given all they could throughout their four years. Each of them has grown individually and as a group. They all brought different strengths to the table and the combination of all of them was tremendous.” 
Cross Country 
Although both the men’s and women’s cross country teams started out the 2009 season with back-to-back first places in their first two meets, the end of the season produced different results for the two squads. 
The Irish competed in seven meets during the fall, including two at home — the National Catholic Invitational and the Notre Dame Invitational. The two squads mirrored each other sev­eral times during the season, fin­ishing in first place at the National Catholic Invitational while falling to sixth at the Big East champi­onships. 
A first-place finish at the NCAA Great Lakes Regional meet clinched a spot for the women to race at the NCAA Championships, where the Irish finished 23rd out of 31 teams. 
“Our goal every year is to get to the NCAA meet, and from that perspective it was definitely a suc­cessful year,” Irish women’s coach Tim Connolly said. “The highlight of this season was winning the regional meet.” 
Senior Lindsey Ferguson fin­ished 30th overall, earning All-American honors. 
Including Ferguson, a total of five seniors will be graduating, leaving behind quite a legacy for the underclassmen to carry on. Beth Tacl, Molly Sullivan, Analisa Sandoval and Dominique Taylor will be moving on from Notre Dame, passing over their leader­ship to the four juniors on the team. 
“I think that we are all feeling very excited about the team next year,” freshman Jessica Rydberg said. “If we are able to keep everyone healthy and we can all get a solid summer of training, then the outlook for the next cross country season looks great.” 
A seventh-place finish for the men’s squad at the Great Lakes Region was not enough to qualify for a spot at the NCAA Championships, a meet they had been preparing for all season. Nevertheless, senior Jake Walker qualified for the individual com­petition with a ninth-place finish and all-region honors. Walker fin­ished 129th at the NCAA meet. 
Along with Walker, Blake Choplin, Daniel Clark, Cameron Eckert, Jack Howard, James Notwell and Brier Steenberge will be graduating. The seven seniors led the Irish to season opening victories at Valparaiso and in the National Catholic Invitational. 
“It was an average year at best,” Irish men’s coach Joe Piane said. “We performed pretty well, especially at the National Catholic meet where we dominated, but beyond that it was somewhat of a disappointing year. We’re not pre­pared yet because of track, but we will be when the time comes.” 
Men’s Swimming 
When the swimmers and divers get back in the pool for the start of the 2010 fall season, they will do so with the knowledge that they have some mighty big shoes to fill. This year’s senior class, led by John Lytle and Andrew Hoffman, graduates as one of the most decorated and accomplished in program history. 
“This is a very special senior class for me,” Irish coach Tim Welsh said. “I’ll remember just how much they’ve grown and how much they’ve contributed to the program over their time here. We’ve been through two extreme­ly exciting Big East champi­onships, including in 2009 when a relay team with Lytle and Hoffman on the first and last legs won the meet for us.” 
The 2009 season finished with the Irish taking second place overall behind Louisville in the Big East championships. The meet provided a number of indi­vidual highlights that Welsh said will define how the season is remembered in years to come. 
“Lytle’s 100 freestyle at the Big East meet was one of the defining moments of the season,” Welsh said. “The Big East is always a big deal for us, and the fact that our divers were able to perform so well the weekend beforehand, fin­ishing one and two in both spring­board events, well, that was prob­ably our best performance of the year.” 
The strong performance at the championships by individual swimmers and divers capped a year where the Irish finished with a 5-6 record in competitive meets. As the year progressed, the Irish saw increased contributions from younger swimmers, including a tremendous swim by freshman Bill Bass on the opening night of the conference meet. Bass set a program record with his time of 
1:46.44 in the 200-individual medley. 
Welsh said he was pleased with the development of Bass and all of his underclassmen swimmers. 
“This year’s freshmen, we think, are very good,” Welsh said. “What I hope is that we will see them emerge. As a group they have enormous potential, and there is room for them to make a big mark with all the talent grad­uating.” 
The competitive season also helped Welsh see leadership form among his junior class, a positive sign heading into the offseason. 
“The rising senior class is a committed class,” Welsh said. “They have strong leadership. We have Michael Sullivan as a two-year captain leading the swim­mers, and obviously [Wesley] Villaflor, [Nathan] Geary, and Eric Lex leading the divers. There are great leaders on both ends, and we saw that this season. We are very optimistic for next year.” 
Women’s Swimming 
Notre Dame continued its reign as Big East champion with its 14th consecutive conference title. The streak is the longest active streak in the conference in any league sport. 
A late charge from second-place Louisville forced the Irish to finish the conference season strong, senior captain Megan Farrell said. 
“Although some of our individ­ual performances this year were disappointing, I was impressed with the collective team perform­ance when it mattered most,” she said. “When it came down to the wire at the Big East champi­onship, the team as a whole rose to the challenge and did not let Louisville surpass us in the point total. Everyone showed great mental toughness and determina­tion when it was their turn to race and put the team first. I believe that tells a lot about the character of these girls.” 
Junior Samantha Maxwell and freshman Kim Holden brought home individual titles on the final day of the meet to clinch the title for the Irish. 
Maxwell was named the Big East Most Outstanding Swimmer and head coach Brian Barnes earned Big East Coach of the Year honors for the second straight season. 


Friday, May 14, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 37 
Year in Review 
Men’s golf falls by one stroke in Big East championship; men’s track takes indoor and outdoor conference titles 
“Both Brian Barnes and Kate Kovenock have such a passion for swimming and their energy is contagious,” Farrell said. “Both individuals have different strengths when it comes to coaching and they complement each other very well. Brian and Kate have the ability to develop the Notre Dame swimming pro­gram into a national power­house.” 
The Irish also participated in the NCAA Championships in West Lafayette, Ind., on March 18-20, finishing 38th overall with 14 points. 
Junior Amywren Miller set a school record in the NCAA Championships in the 50-yard freestyle with a time of 22.30 sec­onds, which was good enough for an eighth-place finish and All-America honors. Maxwell also earned Honorable Mention All-America honors with a 14th­place finish in the 100-yard breaststroke. 
Rowing 
Notre Dame overcame two dis­appointing races to capture its seventh consecutive Big East title. 
In their second meet of the spring, the Irish struggled against Michigan and Michigan State. Notre Dame then followed that performance with a trip to California to face UCLA and USC, only to finish second by at least four seconds in every heat. 
“I think we’re disappointed we didn’t race well on the West Coast and earlier in the season against Michigan and Michigan State,” Irish coach Martin Stone said. “I think we’ve rebounded and we’re definitely much faster since then.” 
Only two weeks later, Stone’s squad demonstrated marked improvement, when it dominated the Big East championship. In the process, the coaching staff was honored as the best in the league, while six rowers were named to the all-Big East team. 
Seniors Brittney Kelly and Casey Robinson and junior Stephanie Gretsch were named to the first team, while senior Sarah Keithley, junior Katherine Linnemanstons and freshman Stephanie O’Neill were named to the second team. 
One notable change this year for the Irish was the training reg­imen, which shifted to a heart­rate-based monitoring system in the mold of many international teams’ training methods. Though it was certainly a shift in attitude, Stone downplayed its impor­tance. 
“What we do hasn’t changed all that much, but how we monitor what we do has changed,” he said. 
Stone credited much of the team’s success to the cohesive culture sparked by the squad’s seniors. 
“The seniors set the tone and they put the team first,” he said. “I think that sets the tone for the way we want to do things, and we go from there. 
Despite the continued success, the Irish are not satisfied, looking for more speed as they head to the South/Central regional regat­ta today and Saturday in hopes of qualifying for the NCAA Championships. 
“We always want to be faster. We’re slightly disappointed we’re not faster,” Stone said. “We’ve won the Big East, which was one of our goals. Now it comes down to how fast we’re going to go in the South/Central race.” 
Men’s Golf 
Despite a slow start to the year, the Irish wrapped up another solid season with a few top fin­ishes as they battled back to enter the NCAA Championship on the right note. 
The Irish were narrowly defeated in the Big East champi­onships, missing out on a confer­ence title by just one stroke, los­ing to Georgetown on the final hole of the tournament. 
“Obviously a tough, tough fin­ish down there at Innisbrook,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “They just did a great job. They fought so hard, showed so much heart and guts, and they just hung in there. I was really proud of the way we finished.” 
Although Notre Dame failed to take home the title, a much lower finish was expected following a dismal first round that saw the Irish fall to sixth. The squad entered the final round in fifth place, but managed to vault three teams for a strong finish. 
The Irish also had some notable individual efforts at the conference tournament. Sophomore Tom Usher carded a two-under par 69, tied for the lowest score of the day, while sophomore Max Scodro was tied for first for the outright individ­ual title through the first 54 holes. 
The seniors also put together a strong showing at the tourna­ment, held at the Innisbrook Resort and Golf Club. Despite some early struggles in the first two rounds, senior Josh Sandman shot an even par 71 on the final day of action. 
“Obviously kids come to Notre Dame for the education, the experience, but they come to play for championships,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. 
Notre Dame’s most rewarding victory of the year came in the fall season at the Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic. The Irish claimed their first regular season title since the 2004-2005 season, and Sandman took home the first individual title of his career. 
The Irish also posted a number of other first-place finishes, including the Bandon Dunes Championship and the Battle at the Warren. Notre Dame also fin­ished second in The Match Play, as the Irish constantly put them­selves in position to win big tour­naments. 
Notre Dame looks to continue playing strong golf as they partic­ipate in the NCAA Regional on May 20 at the Warren Golf Course. Despite competing against tough competition from around the nation, the Irish look to use the home-course to their advantage. 
Women’s Golf 
The Irish completed a season laden with challenges, but despite the adversity, managed to put together some strong finishes against top competition. Notre Dame ultimately finished 17th at the NCAA Central Region last Saturday, but still has a season of highlights to reflect upon. 
The Irish finished strong in a tough stretch of tournaments during the spring, making the squad the team to beat entering the Big East championships. Although the Irish would end up finishing in third place, they still managed to earn an at-large bid into the NCAA Central Region competition. 
Notre Dame was able to stay in contention during the conference tournament in large part due to excellent play from senior Annie Brophy. Brophy was one of the most consistent players on the team throughout the season. While at the championships, Brophy finished in second place, just short of her first-place finish a year before. 
Sophomore Becca Huffer also rose to the occasion to lead the Irish. 
“The two players that have shown up on a consistent basis are Annie Brophy and Becca Huffer,” Irish coach Susan Holt said. “They’ve both done their part. Becca and Annie have pulled their share of the weight.” 
The success began for the Irish at the start of the fall season, as they had one of their best finishes by tying for third at the rain-shortened Bettie Lou Evans Invitational in Lexington, Ky. 
While at the tournament, jun­ior So-Hyun Park led the Irish with a 1-over 72 on the final day of play, which earned her a share of eighth place for the overall individual title. This marked the first of many top individual hon­ors for the Irish. 
In a tough conference, the Irish had three players named to the All-Big East team. Through their outstanding performance in the regular season, Brophy, Huffer and junior Katie Conway all proved to be among the best in the conference. Brophy became only the second player in Irish history to be selected all four years. 
Although a sport often times dominated by individual honors, the Irish attempted to focus all of their efforts towards the good of the team. Regardless of individ­ual honors, the scores matter from every member of the team as they all can contribute to a winning season. 
“When it comes to competition, the better the individual is doing then the better the team is doing,” said Brophy. 
Brophy reflected on her contri­butions from an inexperienced rookie to a battle-tested veteran. 
“There is no other kind of rela­tionship like the one you share with your teammates,” Brophy said, “And I consider myself very blessed to have been able to share my experience here with them.” 
Men’s Track 
When it came to Big East titles this season, Notre Dame stepped up to the task, winning both the indoor and outdoor champi­onships. 
“This is an extremely impres­sive accomplishment because the competition within the confer­ence is very strong and many athletes are competing at the national level,” sophomore pole vaulter Kevin Schipper said. 
Heading into the final day of competition in the outdoor cham­pionships, Notre Dame needed first-place finishes from both Schipper in the pole vault and senior Daniel Clark in the 1,500 meters to jump from fourth over­all into the top position. 
“We were hoping to win our third straight outdoor Big East meet. We knew it'd be tough,” Clark said. “The team was able to put together enough great per­formances in Cincinnati to squeak by Louisville for the win.” 
Seniors Blake Choplin and Jim Notwell, junior Kevin Labus and sophomore Jack Howard com­bined to finish second in the 4x800-meter relay, and junior Greg Davis also claimed second in the hammer throw, with soph­omore Mitchell Gormley behind him in third. 
These performances helped Notre Dame to a narrow victory over second-place Louisville by a score of 123-114. 
“With the way our workouts are drawn up, we typically see consistent improvements in race performance throughout,” Clark said. “Individually, winning the Big East meet was a thrill and a sign of good things to come.” 
Clark said he saw much matu­ration out of his teammates throughout the 2010 campaign. 
“All of the different groups of the team have seen consistent improvement throughout the year and we're starting to hit peak performances just in time for conference and the NCAA prelims coming up in three weeks,” Clark said. 
Irish head coach Joe Piane and his staff were named the Big East coaches of the year for both the indoor and outdoor seasons. 
“We have a solid group of ath­letes that are focused on per­forming to the best of their abili­ty,” Clark said. “The coaches help push us to maximize our talent. Winning the Big East was a cul­mination of all of the hard work individuals have been putting in.” 
The NCAA Regionals will be held on May 28-29. 


page 38 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, May 14, 2010 
the team next year and, you know, I wasn’t very surprised 
Brey 
at that because I know we have 
continued from page 40 
pick it up at times.” 
Harangody said he and Jackson entered their rookie seasons with a “business-like” attitude, which helped Notre Dame earn a No. 6 seed in the 2007 NCAA Tournament. The Irish lost to No. 11 seed Winthrop in the first round. Harangody averaged 11.2 points per game that season in more than 20 minutes per game and became the first freshman since Troy Murphy to score in double figures in his first five games. 
“[The NCAA Tournament freshman year] was a pretty memorable season because it was my first go-around with things,” he said. “It was some­thing I’ll always remember.” 
Harangody, like any athlete, said he believes in off-season improvement, so he used the summer to hone his game as well as his fit­ness. The next season, he some of the best guys in the world here, in the country.” 
Those supportive teammates played a role in Harangody’s decision to forgo the draft and return to school to finish his senior year. 
“It was obvious to see that the NBA is a business,” he said on July 15, 2009. “It’s not like being at Notre Dame around the group of guys that we have. I realize it’s a once-in-a-life­time opportunity to be with a group like this.” 
Harangody said he wasn’t ready to give up one last go-around with his teammates. 
“It was one more year to be around the guys and get a sen­ior year,” Harangody said recently. “It’s something I truly hold special. Now I get a chance to watch these guys succeed in the postseason and also get my degree.” 
Harangody said his parents and Brey helped him with the decision. “[Brey] was very helpful 

averaged 20.4  “He’s been one of the  throughout the  
points and 10.6 rebounds per game.  greatest to ever wear a uniform here. Flat  whole process. He wasn’t like, ‘Come back to  
“It all has to  out.”  s  c  h  o  o  l  ,  ’  ”  
do with work  Harangody said.  
ethic,” he said. “Every sum-mer, whether  Mike Brey Irish coach  “He gave me options to go out there. He was  
it’s been work- always open to  
ing on my body  me, which I real- 
or working on  ly appreciated.  

another part of my game, just In the end, my parents and I get better every year.” and coach Brey sat down and 
It was that season that talked about the whole situa­earned him conference Player tion and I just felt more com-of the Year honors. fortable coming back to school 
The Irish earned a No. 5 seed here.” in the Dance that year and beat That senior season didn’t pan George Mason easily in the first out quite like he planned. At round. Despite Harangody’s 22 first the Irish played well, but rebounds, No. 4 seed once they got into conference Washington State took down play they had two rough the Irish in the second round. stretches, losing three out of 
During Harangody’s junior five and four out of seven at season, Notre Dame started 12-various points. Worse still, 3 but lost seven straight games Harangody suffered a bone and dropped out of contention bruise in his knee on Feb. 11 for the Tournament. It wasn’t against Seton Hall and missed for a lack of production from five games because of the Harangody: He led the team in injury. At one point the Irish scoring for 14 consecutive were 6-8 in the conference and games and averaged a career-the season’s funeral march was best 23.3 points and 11.8 beginning. boards per game. Harangody Even with a serious injury, scored 30 points against Harangody wouldn’t be slowed. Kentucky in the NIT quarterfi-He missed the next game, nals and had a double-double against St. John’s, but con-in the semifinal loss to Penn vinced everyone he would play State. against Louisville on Feb. 17. 
Then came decision time. In “He kind of talked us into he April 2009, Harangody, then a was going to try and play,” junior, declared his eligibility Brey said. “He had everybody, for the NBA the doctors the Draft. He did-trainers, me. 
n’t hire an agent, howev­er, which  “Every summer, whether it’s been  ‘I’m going.’ He didn’t bring any street clothes.  
allowed him the opportuni­ty to change his mind and  working on my body or working on another part of my game, just  ‘I’m playing.’” It took Brey to stop him. “He wasn’t  
return school.  to  get better every year.”  feeling good [after the shoot­ 
“I think when you are a kid shooting  Luke Harangody senior forward  around],” Brey said. “I told him after shoot- 
around at the  around,  ‘Well  
park, every kid  I’m not playing  
dreams  of  you  so  how’s  

playing in the NBA and obvi-that? Does that make the deci­ously I did and this has always sion easier? You’re not ready.’” been a dream of mine,” he said But then a funny thing hap-on April 16, 2009. “So I mean pened: Notre Dame slowed for me, it’s neat to be standing down its offense and had suc­up here and announcing this cess. The Irish lost in double decision today. overtime to Louisville, but won 
“This is a new territory for their next three games, includ­me. But, you know, one of the ing two over top-15 opponents, best things is that with the to finish the season. All without team I have, the teammates I Harangody. have, I told them this week “What I’ve been really happy what I was going to do and with, since he’s been down, they have been so supportive, how he’s been helping [fresh­not only the team’s leader but man forward Jack] Cooley and the guys that are going to be on [junior forward Carleton] Scott,” Brey said. “His voice with those guys during the game, halftime, I could hear his voice in the locker room. He’s a leader and kind of a coach for us.” 

“I think you just try to keep 
their  confidence  up,”  
Harangody  said  of  his  
approach  with  Scott  and  

Cooley. “At first, the first game against St. John’s after I left, a couple guys didn’t really know how to approach it. But it as it went on and they got more practice time it was like night and day.” 
Harangody recovered enough to play in Notre Dame’s last regular-season game, an over­time win on the road against Marquette. He came off the bench for 11 minutes and scored five points. 
He also played in all three of Notre Dame’s Big East tourna­ment games, averaging 14 points and 24 minutes per game. 
But even with Harangody’s presence, the sixth-seeded Irish could not get past No. 11 Old Dominion in the first round of this year’s NCAA Tournament, falling 51-50. In his final game, Harangody played 23 minutes off the bench, and his four points, his only four points in the game, in the final 15 seconds were near­ly enough for Notre Dame to slip into the second round. 
“When he got here he made us believe again,” Brey said. “He was an impact guy. Look at what he’s done throughout his career. 
“He’s been one of the great­est to ever wear a uniform here. Flat out.” 
This story originally appeared in the March 19 edition of The Observer. 


Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


Friday, May 14, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 39 
CROSSWORD 
3 Applies, as pressure4 Stadium cheers 5 Kabuki sash 6 Guy's date 7 Night schoolsubj. 
8 Buddy Holly's“___ Be the Day” 
9 “The Treasure of the Sierra ___” 10Reverse, as an action 11 Scattering of anethnic group
12Internet connection faster than dial-up
13“___-haw!” (cryof delight) 18Street, in Paris 
19“There is ___ in .team'” 
23Former Texas senator Phil 
24“___ la Douce” 
25First-yearplayers 
27Pitcher Hershiser 
28___Aviv 
30“Born Free” lioness 
31Title before Rabbit or Fox 
32End in ___ 
(come out even) 
33More secure 
34German/Polish
border river 
35Stow, as cargo … or an anagram of thelast word of 17-,35-or 52-Across 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  
22  23  24  25  26  27  28  
29  30  31  
32  33  34  
35  36  37  
38  39  
40  41  42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  
60  61  62  

Puzzle by Andrea Carla Michaels 
36Started out (on), 44Sinew 
as a journey 46Like Santa's suit37 Prefix with 

skeleton after going 38 Tiniest drink through the 41 Contemptuous chimney
looks 47Letter holder: 42 N.B.A.'s ___ Abbr. 

Abdul-Jabbar 48Chum 
43 Period of 

advancing 50Follow, as 
glaciers advice 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
WILL SHORTZ 
51Seaweed used as food 
52Recipe amt. 
53“That's brilliant!” 
54___ center (communityfacility) 
55Energy inits. inthe South 
56Bottom line? 

Across 
1 J.F.K.'s predecessor4 Thesaurus creator 9 Roil, as the 
waters 14Film critic Reed 15Embarrass 16Licorice flavoring17All around, as on 
a trip20Common cold 
cause 21Spanish bulls22Suffix with disk 23Young and
feminine 26Money on a 
poker table29“Hel-l-lp!”30Dashing actor
Flynn31Ho-hum sort 32“Remember the 
___!” 33Horse color 35TV show with 
many doors38Last words of “Green Eggs
and Ham” 39Get by logic40“___ a fool to …” 
41 Passover meal 42 Caboodle's partner45 Sleeplessprincess'bane46 Heat detector, e.g.48 Walk a hole in the carpet,

maybe49 River of Arles 51 Richard's partner
in the Carpenters52 Move into first place in a race 57 Pillowcase accompanier58 Celebrate 
boisterously59 Sense of self-importance
60 Rice field 61 Rascal 62 Fellows 
Down 

1 Herds 2 Danny of “ThrowMomma From the Train” 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


JEFF KNUREK
DANIEL POHLMAN 
JUMBLE
T.I.N.D 
MIKE ARGIRION 



Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 

 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
The Observer 

Sports 
Friday, May 14, 2010 page 40 
STORY OF THE YEAR 

Swarbrick fres Weis, looks to Brian Kelly to turn team around 
“Nobody does it like Notre and a berth in the Sugar Bowl practice. The staff is now hitting Observer in an exclusive inter-
By MATT GAMBER 

Dame,” Kelly said in his intro-in 2009. He previously held the the recruiting trail and has view on April 15. “When I got 
Sports Writer 

ductory press conference on top jobs at Central Michigan already secured nine verbal here, our guys thought about 
Dec. 11, 2009. “There’s a and Grand Valley State. commitments from the Class of themselves first, then their fam-
After failing to post a winning chapel in every dorm, and ”You do not come to the 2011. ily, then their teammates, then regular-season record in three there’s a leader around every University of Notre Dame Kelly has received praise from Notre Dame. I want them to flip tries after guiding Notre Dame corner, and we will cultivate because you want to be aver-members of the Notre Dame that. They’re here for Notre to back-to-back Bowl that leadership here at Notre age,” Kelly said on Dec. 11. community, including director Dame, first and foremost, and Championship Series (BCS) Dame, and we will continue to “You want to be the best of the of athletics Jack Swarbrick, for that’s really the paradigm shift berths in his first two seasons, move towards excellence both best. And that’s why I’m here. It his energy and his accessibility for our players. They’ve got to former Irish coach Charlie Weis in the classroom and on the inspires me to be around young as the head coach. Kelly has care about each other and was fired on Nov. 30, 2009. His football field.” men like I had in front of me made it a priority that he and understand why they’re here.” replacement, Brian Kelly, was A veteran with 19 years of today.” his players become more After five years at Notre hired away from Cincinnati and head coaching experience, Kelly Kelly has since assembled his involved on campus. Dame, Weis became the offen­introduced as Notre Dame’s spent three years at Cincinnati, coaching staff, completed a “We need to care about Our sive coordinator of the NFL’s 29th head football coach less leading the Bearcats to new solid 2010 recruiting class and Lady. We need to care about than two weeks later. heights, including a 12-0 record led the Irish through spring Notre Dame,” Kelly told The see KELLY/page 35 
OUTSTANDING SENIOR ATHLETES 
Seniors make history 



Harangody sets records, becomes first Ring of Honor inductee 
Notre Dame player to be named to the 
By BILL BRINK 

Big East first-team three times. 
Senior Staff Writer 

As a freshman, Harangody said he didn’t anticipate it. 
On March 3, Luke Harangody “No, there’s no way I ever saw that,” became the first-ever Irish player to be he said. inducted into the Purcell Pavilion’s 
Harangody received four varsity let-Ring of Honor. His No. 44 jersey ters at Andrean High School in climbed to the rafters, celebrating four Schererville, Ind., where he won two years of awards, accolades and suc­
conference and three sectional cham­cess. 
pionships. When he got to Notre Dame, “Seeing some of the players involved he and then-freshman guard Tory in this University, for me to be the first 
Jackson played early in the season. one, it was a tremendous honor,” the 
“We threw them in there, both of senior forward said. “That was a very them were key guys as freshman,” proud night for myself.” 
Irish coach Mike Brey said. “We went One of many. to the NCAA Tournament because they Harangody will graduate as Notre were ready as freshman to be men in 
Dame’s second-leading scorer and 
this league. They have an unbelievable rebounder. His class made the NCAA 
mental and physical toughness, both of Tournament three out of four years them, that I think has permeated and has won more games than any 
through our group. It’s helped some other class in school history. He was 
other guys who aren’t at their level of named the 2008 Big East Player of the mental and physical toughness-wise Year, was a second-team All-American in 2008 and 2009 and became the first see BREY/page 38 
Lux rewrites record books en route to All-America honors 
the warmer climate places like 
By LAURA MYERS 
California and Florida to recruit 
Sports Writer 
because they play softball year-round,” Lux said. “When I got here I 
Christine Lux has always put a lot was glad to make an impact and of pressure on herself to do well. She show that yes, Midwest girls are tal­knew her hard work had paid off ented and they can be good at soft-when she earned third-team All-ball.” American honors after her junior And she did. campaign, becoming the first Irish Lux began breaking records in All-American since 2006. 2008, her sophomore season, when 
“That was never an honor that I she hit her 14th and 15th homers in thought I would get,” the senior first the last game of the regular season, baseman said. “I came from a little achieving a new high for home runs 
town, a little softball team.” in a season. She tied that record in 
Lux, who hails from Glendale 2009 and broke it again this season, Heights, Ill., will leave Notre Dame finishing with 16 home runs. She also after one of the program’s most owns Notre Dame career records for 
accomplished four-year careers — home runs (49) and putouts (1,523), but she almost did not get a chance and is second in career RBIs (169). to do so. In fact, Notre Dame was one Her 2010 slugging percentage of .816 of few schools that considered her to is the best in a single-season, well play softball. above the .695 mark she set in 2009. 
“I was from the Midwest and nor-Lux’s Big East accomplishments are mally the softball coaches from all around the United States will go to see LUX/page 35 






