the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


NewbishophopestobeactiveinNDcommunity 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Bishop Kevin Rhoades said he hopes to be “an active participant” in the University 
of Notre Dame as he pre ­pares to replace Bishop John D’Arcy as the Bishop of the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend. 
Rhoades will officially take D’Arcy’s place in an installa­tion ceremony today in Fort Wayne. D’Arcy held the posi­tion for 25 years. 
The Vatican announced Rhoades would take D’Arcy’s place in November. 
“I look forward to a close personal relationship with [University President Fr. 


By MEGAN DOYLE 
NewsWriter 
Students returning to South Bend after studying abroad last semester grap­ple with more than new classes as they readjust to living on the Notre Dame campus. 
Over 350 students traveled abroad during the fall semester, Kathleen Opel, director of the Office of International Studies, said. The largest programs include those in London; Dublin, Ireland; Fremantle, Australia; Rome; Santiago, Chile; and Toledo, Spain; she said. 
“Each situation has differ­ent adjustment issues, but most students are prepared to readjust when they come back,” Opel said. “Students are familiar with Notre Dame, and they find that they have changed more 
t h a n  w e  h a v e  w h e n  t h e y  
return.”  
J u n i o r  L a u r e n  G u z m a n  

spent her fall semester in Toledo. For Guzman, the pace of daily life was the most striking difference between life in the United States and in Europe. 
“In Spain, everyone takes siestas, so everything in the city would be closed from two to five in the afternoon,” she said. “Everything runs a little bit slower there.” 
Guzman said that she was ready to return home after her months in Europe, but her semester was a source 
of lasting friendships and “an overall phenomenal John] Jenkins, first as broth­er priests, then as local bish­op with a university presi­dent,” Rhoades said in an e­mail to The Observer. “I am grateful already for the warm welcome and offers of hospitality that I have already received from Fr. Jenkins.” 
Rhoades, who previously served as bishop of the Diocese of Harrisburg, Pa., said the five Catholic colleges and universities that reside in the Fort Wayne -South Bend diocese make it unique, which he said is an “extraor­dinary” occurrence for a dio­cese of this size. 
“I believe that Notre Dame 



seeBISHOP/page 4 


DormBooks sees


Students return from abroad 
Over 350 Domers adjust to life back under the Golden Dome 
increase in business 


By SARAH MERVOSH 
Asssistant News Editor 
More and more students fed up with high textbook prices at the bookstore took their business elsewhere last semester. 
DormBooks, the student-run company that sells and buys textbooks, had three times more business in fall 2009 than in the past, sopho­more Kelsey Falter, who works as manager of opera­tions, said. 
Falter said DormBooks’ message to students is “plain and simple. We offer better prices for used textbooks and lower prices to buy text­books.” 
Students seemed to hear that message last semester more than ever. 
“The bookstore is a rip-off,” sophomore Frankie Gari, who sold his books to DormBooks for the first time last semes­ter, said. “All the prices I got back (at DormBooks) I was happy with. It was cash in my pocket.” 
Gari said he decided to use DormBooks because he learned more about it and because it was the easiest option. 
“The awareness of it is being promoted a lot more [and] the guy was a floor above me so I was just like hey, can I sell you these books?” Gari said. “It was really easy.” 
Sophomore Mia Stenger also said DormBooks seemed to grow in popularity last semester. 
seeBOOKS/page 4 


Faculty, staff safe after Haiti quake 
experience.” 
While most students felt that the semester program was perfect for their needs, Catherine Scallen wished she had remained for anoth­er semester in Toledo. 
“Since I traveled so much on the weekends last semes­ter, I did not get to do a lot of things I wanted to with my host family, like visiting their parents in the puebla they grew up in and explor­ing more of Toledo, ” she said. “I’ll miss my host fami­ly a lot, along with café con leche, café con helado and 


seeABROAD/page 6 
Observer Staff Report 
Four faculty and staff mem­bers working for the Notre Dame Haiti Program were accounted for and safe after a 7.0-magni­tude earthquake hit Haiti Tuesday, University spokesman Dennis Brown said in a press release. 
“We are thankful that these dedicated members of the Notre Dame family are safe,” said University president Fr. John Jenkins. “Our prayers are with them and all of those in Haiti in the wake of this disaster.” 
Notre Dame’s Haiti Program is based in Léogâne, about 30 kilo­meters west of Port-au-Prince. The four faculty and staff mem­bers were in Port-au-Prince at the time of the quake, the press release said. 
There is no information about damage to Notre Dame facilities. 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC students raise money for Africa page 3  Women’s Basketball wins page 20  That was so 2009 page 10  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, January 13, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Rested up, ready to go 
Since I live close to Notre Dame, my house often becomes a refugee camp for displaced Notre Dame students whose flight arrangements do not yield them permission to immediately return to campus before the dorms open on Sunday morning. 
The pre-spring semester gathering of students at my house brought me to the rude awak­ening that I accom­plished next to nothing over 


Molly Sammon
break, which I am entirely fine with. 

One friend that Sports Wire came to stay at the Editor Sammon hotel for the night before break had spent the time off school in El Paso, Texas, working with immi­grants and analyzing the social strains on their lives as migratory workers through the Center for Social Concerns. She earned class credit and lived to tell the tale of being completely immersed in a life totally different from her life at home in rural New Hampshire. 
As we talked and shared stories from break while packing all our belongings back up again, she told me all about the interesting people she befriended and the perspective she’d be taking in her paper. I had no response. The most rewarding thing I did over break was watch Gossip Girl seasons one and two and all the extra special features that the DVD set Santa brought me had to offer. 
Maybe I couldn’t explain the social implications of being an immigrant worker and how it relates to the econo­my of El Paso, Texas, but I could give you a detailed explanation of exactly why Serena and Dan needed to end their seemingly perfect relationship, why Blair did not get into Yale, and why Captain Archibald committed the ulti­mate political scandal the upper-east side had ever seen. 
Ultimately, though someone else in my shoes might feel otherwise, I’m not embarrassed. It took me a really long time to watch those episodes. But more importantly, I needed the rest to gear up for this semester. I needed the ulti­mate relaxation that the forty episodes detailing the lives of the far too wealthy and far too fashionable upper-east siders could offer. It was the perfect break. 
Now that I’m back in South Bend after the most perfect of breaks, the dining hall is not boring yet, my classes are riveting, and my inability to turn my alarm clock off in the morning isn’t completely annoying my roommate. I’m ready to accomplish the more scholasti­cally based goals I have. 
Already, I’ve bought my books for this semester. The nineteen less books the Hammes bookstore now holds that are gracing my shelving units are a huge promise of the studying I intend to do this semester. I also agreed to my room­mate Kimmy’s request that I would train with her to run a half marathon by the end of the semester and to taking three spin classes at the Rock. 
After a boring, but necessarily boring break, I’m ready for the new semester. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE CHRISTMAS  IFT THAT YOU EVER RECEIVED? 






Ashley Meklis Kerri Whelan Marcel Frenkel Maria Font Matt Gallagher 

junior 

freshman sophomore sophomore sophomoreRyan Badin Alumni Ryan O’Neil 
“This one board “The movie ‘The “My family.” “A surprise trip “Snowboard game because Hangover.’” to New York gear and pass
my family always plays it.” 


SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Students bear the cold on their way to class. Students geared up for the spring semester when classes began Tuesday. 
OFFBEAT 

Student apologizes for urinating on nativity scene 
WILKES-BARRE, Pa. — A student at a northeastern Pennsylvania Roman Catholic college has apologized for urinating on a public nativity scene. The student, 22, said Monday he “was being a drunken idiot” a day earlier when he urinated on the nativity scene in Wilkes­Barre’s public square. 
He was charged with pub­lic drunkenness, indecent exposure, open lewdness and desecration of venerated objects. He said he plans to plead guilty at a Jan. 20 pre­liminary hearing. 
The student met with offi­cials King’s College in Wilkes-Barre on Monday. A school spokesman said he faces punishment ranging from a warning to expulsion. 
He has vowed to quit drinking. 
Couple gets married in supermarket 
ORAL SPRINGS, Fla. — One Broward County cou­ple decided to tie the knot where they first met: Whole Foods Market. Jack Frankel, 75, and 67-year­old Fina Nikolos met in May at the supermarket store in Coral Springs. It had been raining when Frankel noticed a beauti­

ful woman pass him. 
Nikolos offered to walk 
him to his car with an 
umbrella. He later 
thanked her by taking her 
out to lunch. 
On Saturday the two 

returned to where their 
love began for a small 
wedding ceremony in the 
store’s cafe. 
About 40 people attend­

ed the ceremony as store 
employees and customers 
watched and smiled. The 
couple held each other 
close during the ceremo­
ny, sharing a few tears. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight thursday friday 



City.” because now I get to tear up the slopes.” 
IN BRIEF 
RecSports fitness classes are free today through Sunday. Sign ups for spring semester fitness classes begins Thursday at 7:30 a.m. 
RecSports will hold a martial arts demonstration in Rockne 109 today from 6:45 p.m. to 
8:15 p.m. Instructors will walk through the history of the disci­pline and give a brief demon­stration of what could be taught in a RecSports martial arts class. 
A pre-release of the film “Extraordinary Measures” will be shown in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 6:30 
p.m. and 9:30 p.m. Thursday. The showing is free, but ticketed. Call 574-631-2800 to reserve tickets. 
SUB will show “The Box” in 101 DeBartolo Hall Thursday at 10 p.m. and Friday at 8 p.m. and 
10:30 p.m. 
Get a taste of food from all across the country Thursday from 10 p.m. to midnight. The food will be served in LaFortune Ballroom, Dooley Room and Sorin Room. 
Multicultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS) is sponsor­ing a Martin Luther King Jr. Diversity Series. There will be a seminar Friday 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. followed by an anti-racism workshop Saturday and Sunday. MSPS will pay the fee for any Notre Dame student, faculty or staff. E-mail tblake@nd.edu or call 574-631-8503 for more information or to register. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
saturday sunday 

31 
LOW 25 LOW 
26 

Atlanta 46 / 27 Boston 36 / 17 Chicago 27 / 15 Denver 44 / 21 Houston 57 / 26 Los Angeles 74 / 50 Minneapolis 28 / 21 New York 32 / 21 Philadelphia 32 / 16 Phoenix 72 / 44 Seattle 50 / 45 St. Louis 32 / 27 Tampa 49 / 25 Washington 24 / 20 
Wednesday, January 13, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


College’s students fundraise for Africa 
By SARAH GUNN 
News Writer 
Kyarusozi. It’s hard to pro­nounce, and hard to forget. 
Six Saint Mary’s students spent their summer in this Ugandan village and the time they spent there inspired them to raise over $5,000 for the village upon returning to school. 
The organization, Belles for Africa, raised money by selling T-shirts, hosting a benefit 5K run and running a shoe drive. The group also raised money by orchestrating the “miss a meal” program, in which students redirect the cost of one meal in the dining hall toward food for those that struggle to get regular meals. 
As a result of these fundrais­ers, the group presented a check for $5,431 to the Sisters of the Holy Cross Dec. 11. The money will be allocated to the school and clinic in Kyarusozi for necessary supplies. 
The clinic hopes to obtain enough money to build an “operating theatre,” or an operating room. 
About 50 Saint Mary’s stu­dent athletes were in atten­dance for the check presenta­tion in the Angela Athletic facility. 
Senior Megan McClowry was one of the six nursing and education students who trav­eled to Uganda for the six-week study abroad program. 
McClowry said she will never forget the pure love and hap­piness that the children of Kyarusozi exuded. 
“They had so little,” says McClowry. “But they had so much love.” 
After working in a clinic dur­ing the day, McClowry and the other students played soccer and Frisbee with the village children. 
“I was expecting it to be what I had seen on television. They were poor, but I’ve never seen such joy on children’s faces,” McClowry said. 
While McClowry did help teach classes at the local school, she concentrated on medical work. McClowry worked with the clinic to dis­pense medications, give injec­tions and immunizations, assess pregnancies and work at HIV clinics. 
The experience in Kyarusozi encouraged the Saint Mary’s students who participated to find a way to give back to the community and raise money to benefit the village, McClowry said. 
In addition to learning about the lives of the Ugandans and performing medical work, McClowry said she realized how far the Sisters of the Holy Cross reached. 
“I never realized the connec­tion the sisters had around the world. It made me see how rich the Saint Mary’s heritage is,” McClowry said. 
McClowry said she hopes that the Uganda program con­tinues to grow at Saint Mary’s and said she uses fundraising events to raise awareness about the program. 
Belles for Africa will host fundraising events throughout the year, including a concert by The Undertones, Harmonia and Bellacapella on Feb. 3. 

Contact Sarah Gunn at sgunn01@saintmarys.edu 






SMCpupillearnsaboutpeace 
Indianapolis Peace Institute offers options for breaks, summers 
asked to come back to the projects. I believe [students 
By ALICIA SMITH 

Institute and co-facilitate will] be receiving e-mails, 
News Writer 

another Women’s Issues and but someone from the 
Urban Environments trip. So Institute is coming to share 
Peace does not just encom-there were groups from more about it to get people pass nonviolence, according other colleges that I was interested,” she said. to a Saint Mary’s student able to assist and help Cleary said she hopes to who’s worked with the because I had already taken participate in an internship Indianapolis the trip,” she program in during the com-P e a c e said. ing summer. Institute (IPI). “[I]t’s about promot-Each trip “They set you up with a College soph-focuses on a couple options for an intern­
ing nonviolence, but 
omore Cat different topic. ship and their whole thing is Cleary said it’s about so  much During her they don’t just want you just that through more than that.” spring break getting coffee, that’s not the her work she trip, Cleary kind of internship they’re d i s c o v e r e d learned about setting up,” Cleary said. 
Cat Cleary 
what a peace-w o m e n ’ s “You develop a project ful world Saint Mary’s sophomore issues. For with a mentor at whatever entails. Thanksgiving organization or site you are 
“I think that she helped at and then you work a big part of their (IPI’s) package and serve meals to towards that for the whole thing is sharing with stu-41,000 people who were summer. It’s a pretty innova­dents and helping them hungry on Thanksgiving. tive experience,” she said. experience different oppor-“It’s a service learning Cleary became involved tunities of peacemaking,” experience. There’s a mix of with IPI when she decided to Cleary said. speakers and direct service take the alternative spring 
“One of their missions is to work and visiting of different break trip in 2009. Cleary tell people that peace is sites such as a domestic vio-said the trip was so mean-more than just the absence lence center, a daycare for ingful that she changed her 
of war and conflict. It’s low -income major. about building healthy com-f a m i l i e s , “Probably munities, it’s about promot-things like “One of their missions what the most ing nonviolence, but it’s that. It’s a powerful thing 
is to tell people peace

about so much more than c o m b i n e d is that because 
is more than just the

that,” Cleary said. e x p e r i e n c e of learning 
The IPI Web site said the with seeing absence of war and about these Institute offers a variety of and doing and w o m e n ’ s
confict” 

opportunities for college stu-h e a r i n g , ” issues, I actu­dents, including an under-Cleary said. ally changed graduate semester program, A n o t h e r Cat Cleary my major. So a summer urban experience, spring break Saint Mary’s sophomore it was quite a alternative spring and fall trip will be powerful expe­breaks and weekend work-offered to stu-rience. I origi­shops. dents this academic year nally did it because of my 
Cleary participated in an similar to the one Cleary interest in social justice, but alternative spring break pro-experienced in 2009. now its more out of my gram as well as an alterna-“This coming spring interest in the issues affect­tive Thanksgiving break pro-they’re going to offer anoth-ing women,” she said. gram. She also returned to er alternative spring break the Institute in early January trip on Women’s Issues and to assist with another trip. Urban Environments, anoth-Contact Alicia Smith at 
“This past week, I was er trip with similar sites and asmith01@nd.edu 



OIT adds new security layer for spring semester 
able to place students in the net-encryption, and Nomad is still 
By MEGAN HEMLER 
work appropriately and give them around for the older devices that 
News Writer 
the correct amount of access, can’t make the switch to ND-Seidl said. Secure,” Seidl said. 
Students returning to campus When OIT knows more infor-Lenette Votava, organization for the spring semester must login mation about who is using Notre communication analyst with OIT, for the second time this year to Dame’s network, they can better said that “the overall goal of use the Notre Dame network, said identify and resolve any kind of information security is to be David Seidl, threat, he said. aware and on top of any kind of information Seidl said threat. security pro-“One of the most BlackBerrys, “One of the most important fessional at important things for all iPhones and things for all Notre Dame users to the Office of other mobile remember is to be sensible and 
Notre Dame users to
Information devices will not watch what you post online,” she Technologies remember is to be sensible be affected by said. (OIT). and watch what you post the new securi-Seidl said OIT also started “If you’re ty step. working on file security. 
online.” 
used to com-As more of “Universities tend to keep files ing to campus the Notre forever, so we have been urging in August, the Lenette Votava Dame commu-faculty and staff to clean out their only thing organization communication nity goes wire-Netfile accounts,” he said. that’s different less, Seidl He said another concern for 
analyst
is the fact that advocated use students is the social media Web 
Offce of Information 
it’s happening of the ND-sites. 
Technologies 
more than secure wireless “Even legitimate Web sites can once a year,” network — have a virus that is user-initiated, Seidl said. instead of the meaning a user clicks on an “This change applies only to the old Nomad network — to keep advertisement and the virus is wired network. The three other personal information safe. passed to the user’s computer.” wireless networks will not see any “If you want your traffic Votava said online security is additional changes.” encrypted and the network to “always an ongoing effort … it 
The added security helps OIT treat you like a trusted campus simply never ends.” know who the person on the citizen, you need to use ND-other end of the computer is. secure. ND-guest is comparable Contact Megan Hemler at Using that knowledge, OIT will be to a hotel network, which has no mhelmer@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 13, 2010 

Books 
continued from page 1 
“I definitely feel like more of my friends are using it,” she said. “The first place I tried was DormBooks.” 
Stenger said also she had a positive experience selling her books back to DormBooks. 
“It was so smooth. My room­mate was friends with one of [their represen­tatives] and he 

came to our “There are literally employees in room. We didn’t no ‘grown ups’ or 2006 and grew have to do any-to over 50 
business people who
thing,” she said. employees in fall 
run DormBooks.” 
“It’s really nice.” 2009. 
Stenger said “We’ve really she wasn’t able Kelsey Falter stepped up and to find the books hope that this 
DormBooks Manager of 
she needed for spring Notre 
Operations
the spring Dame students 
ommendations and operations have improved,” she said. 
Falter said it also helps that the company is student run. 
“There are literally no ‘grown ups’ or business people who run DormBooks,” she said. “It’s the people in your classes who work at DormBooks, pack book orders and deliver books. We care because we’re all stu­dents too.” 
The company has also expanded in terms of employ­
ees. DormBooks 
began with two 
semester from DormBooks because she looked too late. 
“Be smart and look up what books you need before you get here,” she said. “Last semester, I got lower prices on all of them, but I did it a couple of days before I got here so I got all my books.” 
Falter attributed DormBooks’ growth and success to its dedi­cation to continue improving since it began at Notre Dame in 2006. 
“DormBooks tries to listen to student suggestions and grow. It’s an entrepreneurial startup, and we’re always adapting,” she said. 
“In the past, I think that cus­tomer service probably fell by the wayside because DormBooks was still in a start­up phase, but we’ve heard rec-
notice that DormBooks was created for the purpose of helping the stu­dent,” Falter said. 
Students looking to save money can also find their books online. 
Student body vice president Cynthia Weber said student government put ISBN numbers on its Web site to make price comparison easier. 
“The availability of ISBN numbers is important to mak­ing the price comparison easy,” Weber said. “By copying and pasting the number into Google, you are basically head­ed in the right direction.” 
Students can find ISBN numbers at studentgovernment.nd.edu 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 



Bishop 
continued from page 1 
and the other Catholic uni­versities can do much to help us in our mission of evangelization, in spreading the Gospel of Christ. The University’s research and teaching is at the service of truth and can assist the Church in her mission of witnessing to the truth in our increasingly relativistic culture,” he said. 
“I believe that the Catholic university has a great responsibility today in an age of much moral confu­sion, especially in highlight­ing the ethical and religious dimensions of contemporary problems and challenges,” he said. 
But Rhoades said the role of a Catholic university in the church can be challeng­ing. 
“We cannot take the Catholic identity and mis­sion of our universities for granted,” he said. “Efforts need to be made constantly to promote and to strength­en Catholic identity. Otherwise, a university can lose its bearings, as has happened with many for­merly religiously founded universities in the United States.” 

The University clashed with D’Arcy on several issues during his tenure, most prominently, Jenkins’ invitation to President Barack Obama to deliver the 2009 Commencement address and receive an hon­orary degree. D’Arcy also condemned Jenkins’ deci­sion to allow the perform­ance of “The Vagina Monologues” on campus. 
Rhoades said the issue of academic freedom at a Catholic university has the potential to create tension with the university ’s Catholic identity. 
“There is also the chal­lenge of academic freedom and those who exalt aca­demic freedom in a way that is not consonant with the university’s Catholic mis ­sion,” he said. “The Catholic university’s mission in serv­ice of the truth should not be minimized or sacrificed. 
“The Catholic university’s identity and mission can be 
obstructed when one appeals to academic free­dom in an attempt to justify positions or activities that are opposed to Catholic faith and teaching.” 
However, in a November press conference Rhoades said the conflicts between D’Arcy and Jenkins regard­ing the invitation to Obama are “in the past.” 
“The University of Notre Dame plays an important role in the diocese,” he said. “I think there have been many areas of collaboration between the University and the diocese, particularly in regard to our Catholic schools and also our contin­uing education programs.” 
In a November press release, Jenkins said he is confident Rhoades’ appoint­ment is a “blessing” for the diocese. 
“We look forward both to his apostolate and to our friendship for many years to come,” Jenkins said. 
Rhoades said it is too early to assess the challenges of the job and set priorities for his work in the diocese. 
“In my first months here, I intend to visit many parish­es and communities and to get to know the diocese,” he said. “I am looking forward to visiting all the parishes, schools and communities of my new diocese and getting to know the priests and peo­ple.” 
“It is exciting to come to a new diocese and to embrace new challenges,” Rhoades said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 





World & Nation 
Wednesday, January 13, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


U.S. refuses N. Korea peace talks 
SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea and the U.S. rejected North Korea’s proposal to start peace talks to formally end the Korean War, with Seoul saying Tuesday that can happen only after the North rejoins disarma­ment talks and reports progress in denu­clearization. 
The North, however, said Monday that its return to those negotiations hinges on build­ing better relations with the United States, including signing a peace treaty. The North also called for the lifting of international sanctions against it. 

UK appeals European court ruling 
LONDON — The British government said Tuesday it will appeal a European Court of Human Rights ruling that prevents police from using anti-terror laws to stop and search members of the public. 
The Strasbourg-based court ruled that a British law allowing police to stop and search people without having to first prove they were acting suspiciously violates indi­vidual freedoms. 
The ruling came in a case brought by two Britons — Kevin Gillan and Pennie Quinton 
— who were stopped and questioned by police near an arms fair held in London in 2003. 
British courts ruled that police acted legal­ly because they were dealing with a general threat of terrorism. But the European Court of Human Rights ruled that the pair’s rights were violated and awarded them 30,000 pounds ($48,000) to cover legal costs. 
NATIONAL NEWS 


Unions respond to tax proposal 
WASHINGTON — Health care negotiators are looking at options for easing a pro­posed health insurance tax that has angered organized labor, including the pos­sibility of a new levy on the investment earnings of upper-income people. 
The idea is to extend the Medicare pay­roll tax — which now applies only to income from wages — to cover some of the investment earnings of couples making more than $250,000 a year, and individuals earning above $200,000, a Democratic offi­cial said Tuesday. That would make up lost revenue from scaling back the insurance tax. 
Many ideas are being discussed, and no final decisions have been made, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the negotiations between the White House and Congress. 

Gay couples testify in California 
SAN FRANCISCO — Testimony in a groundbreaking legal challenge to California's same-sex marriage ban resumes Tuesday with testimony from two Ivy League historians who will discuss the nation's experience with matrimony and anti-gay discrimination. 
The trial, which began Monday, is the first in a federal court to decide the consti­tutionality of state bans on gay marriage. Regardless of the outcome, the case is like­ly to be appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, where it could lead to laws that restrict marriage to a man and a woman being upheld or abolished nationwide. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Bill lessens punishment for minors 
INDIANAPOLIS — Arresting students for behavior that used to earn them a trip to the principal’s office can put kids on a path toward dropping out of school and going to prison, a Georgia judge told an Indiana legislative committee on Tuesday. 
“When you slap the handcuffs on a kid, you increase the risk that they’re not going to graduate,” along with the odds of later trouble with the law, said Steven 
C. Teske, a juvenile court judge from Clayton County, Ga., who testified before the House Judiciary Committee. 


Roeder seeks controversial defense 
Judge permits defendant to argue for manslaughter in murder of abortion provider 
Associated Press  
WIC HI TA, Ka n. — A  
judge turned away objec­ 
tions from prosec ut ors  
Tu e s d ay, a ll o wing con - 
fessed killer Scott Roeder  
th e c han c e t o buil d a  
defense to the slaying of a  
Kansas abortion provider  
ba s ed on hi s belief the  
act io n was j usti fi ed to  
save unborn children.  
Sedgwick County District  
J u d g e Wa rre n Wil b er t  
said it remains to be seen  
after the defense rests its  
case whether the evidence  
wi ll s uff ice t o instru ct  
jurors that they can con­ 
sider the lesser offense of  
voluntary manslaughter in  
the death of Dr. George  
Tiller.  
“ I am go ing to m ak e  
ev ery eff o rt to tr y this  
case as a criminal, first- 
d egree murde r tr ia l, ”  
Wilbert said. “Admittedly  
Mr. Roeder’s beliefs may  
come into play and as a  
defendant he is entitled to  
present a defense.”  
The judge said he would  
rule on a witness-by-wit­ 
ness, question-by-question  
b asi s as n e cessa ry  
throughout the trial on  
whether to allow jurors to AP  
hear specific evidence on Scott Roeder listens as defense attorney, Mark Rudy, speaks at the last of his pretrial hear- 
Ro ede r ’s bel iefs about ings in a Wichita, Kan., courtroom on Jan. 8  
abortion.  
“This is not going to be a  not in dispute: As Sunday  on Friday when Wilbert  conde mned th e j u d g e ’s  
debate about abortion,”  m orning serv ice s w ere  refused to bar Roeder’s  decision, saying it opens  
Wilbert said, adding that  starting, Roeder got up  lawyers from building the  the door for a society that  
attorneys will have to con- from a pew at Wichita’s  defense calling for a lesser  would condone vigilantism  
vince him at trial that any  Refor mati o n Lu th era n  cha rge o f vol untar y  and violence against abor­ 
evidence offered in that  Church and walked to the  manslaughter. The judge  tion providers.  
regard will have to be part  foyer, where Tiller and a  prohibited only a so-called  Prosecutors had filed a  
of what Roeder believed  fellow usher were chat­ nece s si ty d ef en s e th at  motion Monday saying the  
o n May 3 1 w he n Til ler  ting. He put the barrel of  w o ul d a rgue Ro ede r  voluntary manslaughter  
was killed.  a .22-caliber handgun to  sh o ul d b e acqui t ted  defense is invalid because  
Roeder has “a formida- Ti lle r ’s f ore he ad and  be c aus e the d o c to r ’s  there is no evidence Tiller  
ble and daunting task” to  pulled the trigger.  killing was necessary.  posed an imminent threat  
p r esent s uch ev ide nce ,  The 51-year-old Kansas  Kansas law defines vol- at the time of the killing.  
Wilbert said.  City, Mo., man has pub­ untary manslaughter as  The defense argued that  
Tu esda y’s he aring  licly admitted to reporters  “ an unreas o nabl e b ut  the prosecution misinter­ 
delayed the start of secret  and the court to killing  honest belief that circum­ preted case law, saying  
jury selection proceedings  Tiller. He also faces two  stances existed that justi­ a n y ruli n gs a bou t ev i- 
u nti l Wednesda y. F our  cou nt s of aggra va ted  fied deadly force.” A con­ dence should be made at  
media outlets, including  assa u lt for a ll e g edl y  v ict io n c o ul d bring a  the time of its presenta- 
The Associ ate d P r es s ,  threatening two ushers  prison sentence closer to  tion as is typical in any  
h av e ask ed the K an s as  who tried to stop him from  five years, instead of a life  other criminal trial.  
Supreme Court to over- fleeing after the shooting.  term for first-degree mur­ “This trial is going to be  
turn Wilbert’s decision to  He has pleaded not guilty.  der.  on TV, but it is not a TV  
bar reporters from jury  But w h at ha d b een  The Kansas chapter of  trial — it is a real trial,”  
selection.  expected to be a straight- the National Organization  de fe n se attorney M ark  
The facts of the case are  forward trial was upended  for Women immediately  Rudy said.  

HAITI 


Record earthquake hits Port-au-Prince 
before phone service failed that “there An Associated Press videographer saw 
Associated Press 

must be thousands of people dead,” the wrecked hospital in Petionville, a hill-
PORT-AU-PRINCE — The largest according to a spokeswoman for the aid side Port-au-Prince district that is home earthquake ever recorded in the area group, Sara Fajardo. to many diplomats and wealthy Haitians, rocked Haiti on Tuesday, collapsing a “He reported that it was just total dis-as well as many poor people. Elsewhere hospital where people screamed for help aster and chaos, that there were clouds in the capital, a U.S. government official and damaging other buildings. An aid of dust surrounding Port-au-Prince,” reported seeing houses that had tumbled official described “total disaster and Fajardo said from the group’s offices in into a ravine. chaos.” Maryland. Haiti’s ambassador to the U.S., 
Communications were widely disrupt-The earthquake had a preliminary Raymond Joseph, said from his ed, making it impossible to get a clear magnitude of 7.0 and was centered Washington office that he spoke to picture of damage as powerful after-about 10 miles (15 kilometers) west of President Rene Preval’s chief of staff, shocks shook a desperately poor country Port-au-Prince, the U.S. Geological Fritz Longchamp, just after the quake where many buildings are flimsy. Survey said. It had a depth of 5 miles (8 hit. He said Longchamp told him that Electricity was out in some places. kilometers). It was the largest quake “buildings were crumbling right and left” 
Karel Zelenka, a Catholic Relief recorded in the area and the first major near the national palace. He said he had Services representative in the capital of one since a magnitude-6.7 temblor in not been able to get through by phone to Port-au-Prince, told U.S. colleagues 1984, USGS analyst Dale Grant said. Haiti since. 
page 6 The Observer  NEWS Wednesday, January 13, 2010 
Abroad 
continued from page 1 
European shopping.” 
Nicole Ashley, another jun­ior returning from Toledo, said that her time abroad was her best semester so far at Notre Dame. She lived in a historic part of the city with her host parents and their seven children. 
“Lunch is a really big meal in Spain, and the kids and parents can come home to eat during the middle of the day,” Ashley said. “Being all together was really fun, even if the situation seemed hectic with so many people.” 
Ashley also said she enjoyed traveling through­out Europe as well as par­ticipating in Spanish cul ­ture. She said that the over­all experience was worth the price of missing football season back in South Bend. 
“I will definitely miss being able to speak Spanish on a daily basis the most,” she said. “When I got back, I had to stop expecting to speak the language all the time.” 
Juniors Mikey Maurer and Sam Russ were two of 18 students studying in Pueblo, Mexico, during the fall semester. 
“I thought that the most difficult part of adjusting to Mexican culture was dealing with the assumptions about Americans and sticking out as a foreigner,” said Maurer. 
Russ said life in Pueblo followed a slower pace than in the United States. 
His professors structured class along less defined lines than professors at Notre Dame, and Russ said he had more free time to adventure throughout Mexico both on weekends and during the week. 
“At the same time, I wouldn ’t have wanted another semester in Mexico,” said Russ. “I feel like my time away from Notre Dame refreshed it for me, and I am glad to be back.” 
Maurer also found that the semester program fit well with his academic goals — he is pursuing a career in medicine — and it allowed him to broaden his ideas for his future to include using Spanish in a more interna­tional capacity. 
“I learned a lot about adaptability and flexibility,” said Maurer. “To really become culturally immersed, I had to be will­ing to start a conversation with a stranger, ask ques­tions, seek out opportunities and be innovative when everything was not as I planned.” 
“I really hope that I never forget what I learned through this experience,” he said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 



Two dead in GA business shooting 
Associated Press 
KENNESAW, Ga. — A disgrun­tled ex-employee stormed a truck rental business in camou­flage and opened fire with a handgun, killing two people and critically wounding three others at his former workplace, police said. 
The lone gunman fled the scene in a pickup truck and was arrested after police stopped him about a mile from the Penske Truck Rental facility, said Cobb County Police Officer Joe Hernandez. The names of the suspect and victims were not immediately released. 
“He wasn’t here for very long and it wasn’t long before he was taken into custody,” Hernandez said. 
As of late Tuesday, police had not released the name of a sus­pect. However, Cobb County police arrested 60-year-old Jessie James Warren Tuesday afternoon near the site of the shooting. According to jail records he was at the exact intersection where Cobb police said they arrested the gunman. 
There were conflicting reports about who the victims were. Penske spokesman Randy Ryerson said four victims were employees and the other was a customer, but police said none of the victims were customers. Hernandez said all of those shot were males. 
About two dozen employees were working at the office, which sits about 25 miles north­west of Atlanta and consists of a couple of large buildings with bay doors, Ryerson said. 
One of the victims died at the scene and another was pro­nounced dead at WellStar Kennestone Hospital, said Hernandez. The three surviving victims are in critical condition, said hospital spokesman Keith Bowermaster. 
The suspect worked at Penske for several years, but it was unclear when and why he left. 
The gunman first confronted someone in the parking lot before moving to the truck bay area, shooting victims along the way, said Hernandez. He did not try to enter the building’s sec­ond floor, which houses a small administration office. 
A man who witnessed the arrest said the suspect looked “out of his mind” and “all drugged up.” 
“The cops walked up on both sides of the truck, he opened the door and they threw him on the ground. He pretty much just gave up,” Michael Robertson told The Associated Press. 
Lights were on but no one appeared to be home at an address listed for Warren in Temple. No one answered the door but a dog could be heard barking. 
Penske said it was a very traumatic day. 
“We want to extend our deep­est concerns and sympathies for the victims of today’s shoot­ings,” Ryerson said. 
It is the second workplace shooting this month. Timothy Hendron, an employee at ABB Inc. electrical plant in St. Louis, is accused of shooting hundreds of rounds of ammunition through the sprawling plant as about 50 workers sought refuge. Authorities say he killed three men and injured five oth­ers before killing himself. 


Chicago police reopen 70-year-old murder case 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — He’s the father of a war hero whose name is familiar to anyone who has flown in and out of Chicago, and his death has been linked to one of the city’s most famous residents ever: Al Capone. 
Now the police department’s cold case unit has agreed, at the request of an alderman, to take another look at the unsolved gangland-style 1939 slaying of a prominent busi­nessman Edward J. O’Hare, a case the deputy chief who oversees the unit acknowl­edged Tuesday is far colder than any other under investi­gation. 
How much time or how many detectives will actually be assigned to the investigation is unclear, Deputy Chief Al Wysninger said. But while he recognizes the difficulties that come with a case dating back seven decades, he sounded like he’s taking the task seriously. 
“The Chicago Police Department doesn’t close homicides,” he said. “We will try to come to a resolution.” 
Still, Alderman Edward Burke isn’t expecting much more from detectives than dusting off the file and looking into whether there is anything left to do with the case. 
Capone, after all, has been dead for decades. And even on the off chance anyone connect­ed to the case is alive — a remote possibility given the life expectancy for mobsters of the 1920s and 1930s — they’d be in their 90s. 
“They’re not going to waste a lot of time on something that happened in 1939,” Burke said of police. 

Instead, Burke sees the exer­cise as a chance to shine light on one of the darkest chapters in the city’s history, give some­one who helped bring down Capone the credit he deserves and tell a story of a father’s love for a son whose heroics a few years later in World War II prompted the city to name its busiest airport after him. 
“We have the responsibility to set the record straight,” said Burke before the hearing, com­paring this effort to how the council in the 1990s absolved Mrs. O’Leary’s cow of blame for the Great Chicago Fire of 1871. “Millions fly into O’Hare (International Airport) every day and they don’t know the story behind the story.” 
Edward J. O’Hare, who owned race tracks and had a stake in the old Chicago Cardinals football team, became an informer against his business partner Capone, Burke said. The information O’Hare gave prosecutors was instrumental in Capone’s con­viction on income tax evasion. 
And, he said, one possible reason is that he wanted to help his son, Edward “Butch” O’Hare, gain admittance to the 
U.S. Naval Academy and was afraid that his reputation as someone who did business with Capone might hurt his chances. 
“It’s an intriguing Chicago legend,” Burke said before the meeting. 
Edward “Butch” O’Hare went on to become a Navy pilot and was awarded the Medal of Honor after shooting down five Japanese bombers and damag­ing a sixth, preventing them from attacking an air craft car­rier. He was later killed in action. 
Jonathan Eig, a best-selling author who addressed O’Hare’s slaying in his book “Get Capone,” which is due out in April, said that while Edward 
J. O’Hare did provide informa­tion about Capone, there is no evidence he was doing so to help his son. 
“There’s a chance he had his own tax problems and he was involved in a bootlegging case (in which) he got off when everybody else was convicted,” he said after the hearing. “He may have made a deal.” 
Nor does he believe, as Burke suggested, that Capone, from his prison cell in Alcatraz, ordered a hit on O’Hare, who was killed about a week before Capone was released from prison. 
Capone’s brain was ravaged by syphilis at the time and while he was heard railing about his enemies, Eig said there is no record of him talk­ing about O’Hare. 
But, Eig said, there is a pos­sibility that Capone’s family members, who had their own money problems at the time, asked O’Hare for money. Or maybe Capone’s henchman, Frank Nitti, demanded money from the very successful O’Hare, he said. 
Whatever the reason, on Nov. 8, 1939, O’Hare was in his car on the city’s southwest side when somebody armed with a shotgun killed him. Nobody was ever arrested for the slay­ing. 


The Observer 

Business
Wednesday, January 13, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Airlines raise fuel surcharges 
DALLAS — Major airlines have raised fuel sur­charges on travel to Europe by $20 per roundtrip, and some have added conditions that could cause travelers to pay higher fares. 
Surcharges to Paris, Frankfurt and most cities on the Continent were raised to $280 per roundtrip and to $242 for London, airline repre­sentatives said Tuesday. 
Tim Smith, a spokesman for American Airlines, said his company matched increases by Continental and United. “That’s purely a competi­tive factor,” he said. 
Delta, Continental and United confirmed that they had raised surcharges to Europe by $20 a roundtrip. 
Tom Parsons, CEO of Web site Bestfares.com, said surcharges on roundtrips to Ireland are now $100. “Dublin is still a dirt-cheap destination,” he said. 
Some airlines that previously required only a seven-day advance purchase for the lowest coach fares are now requiring a 14-day advance pur­chase, Parsons added. 
Airlines, which have been hit hard by the reces­sion-caused downturn in travel, have imposed surcharges for fuel and for passengers who travel on peak days around holidays such as Easter and spring break. 
Fuel prices hit records in July 2008, then fell the rest of that year and into early 2009 but have rebounded since. 

Yahoo sells Zimbra e-mail service 
SUNNYVALE, Calif. — Yahoo is selling the e-mail service Zimbra to VMware as part of an effort to focus on the Internet services that generate most of its revenue. 
Financial terms of the deal announced Tuesday weren’t disclosed. 
Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale, Calif., bought Zimbra for $350 million in September 2007. 
Zimbra manages more than 55 million e-mail boxes for businesses, universities and Internet serv­ice providers. 
The acquisition opens a new product line for VMware, which sells software that enables a single computer to function like multiple machines. 
Yahoo is retaining the right to draw upon Zimbra’s technology to run its own Web-based e­mail service. 
The sale is expected to close by the end of March. 


Obama considers levy on firms 
President seeks the return of taxpayer money from rescued institutions 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — Targeting an industry whose political deafness has vexed his administration, President Barack Obama is weighing a levy aimed at recovering tax dollars from government-rescued finan­cial institutions. 
The proposed levy could put Obama on the popular side of public opinion that is decidedly against Wall Street and angry over short­falls in a $700 billion bank bailout fund. 
A senior administration official said Monday that Obama would seek modifi­cations to the law that sent billions in bailout money in 2008 and 2009 to a flailing Wall Street that was approaching collapse. The government official spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the president’s thinking. 
The idea received an early boost from Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the top Democrat in the House, where there have been calls for a hefty tax on bank bonuses. 
“While we have not seen any specific language from the administration, Congress will certainly examine any serious pro­posals to lower the deficit and recoup even more of “We look forward to see-billion, most of it due to would have to approve any the TARP funds for the tax-ing the details of the com-auto and AIG assistance. fee plan. payers,” said Nadeam plexity of the formula, of According to the law, the Discussion of a bank fee Elshami, a spokesman for who it’s applied to and what status of the TARP fund to reduce the federal deficit Pelosi, D-Calif. the assessment is based on must be assessed by late comes as the administration 
The 2008 law that created and when it is applied,” he 2013, five years after it is preparing to submit its the Troubled Asset Relief said. passed. “In any case where 2011 budget proposal next Program requires the presi-Government officials have there is a shortfall,” the month and as Wall Street dent to seek a way to conceded that they don’t statute says, “the President banks this month prepare to recoup unrecovered TARP expect to recoup billions in shall submit a legislative hand out near-record com-money from financial insti-TARP money used to rescue proposal that recoups from pensation for last year’s tutions, but five years after insurance conglomerate the financial industry an performance. the law was enacted. It does American International amount equal to the short-Obama has been strident not specify how the money Group Inc. and the auto fall in order to ensure that in his criticism of bankers, should be recovered. industry. Banks have been the Troubled Asset Relief calling them “fat cats” last 
An industry official said repaying their infusions, in Program does not add to the month in an interview that consideration of a levy now part to get out from under deficit or national debt.” aired on the eve of their would be premature. compensation limits It is unclear how the visit to the White House. 
“Current law doesn’t trig-imposed on the bailout administration would seek With public anger over the ger this tax proposal for recipients. Banks have also to recoup shortfalls due to bailout still strong, Obama another four years,” said paid dividends from the TARP infusions into the auto has embraced populist rhet-Scott Talbott, chief lobbyist government help. industry or AIG. And any fee oric in an effort to shame for the Financial Services The administration is pro-could potentially be bank executives into paying Roundtable, an industry jecting the losses to the gov-imposed on banks that have back the government more group for some of the ernment from the bailout already repaid their TARP quickly and their executives largest financial firms. program will be about $120 infusions in full. Congress less lavishly. 

CHINA 


Google considers exiting Chinese market 
Associated Press 

Google disclosed in a blog post that search engine, as the government 
it had detected a “highly sophisticat-requires. Google said the decision 
SAN FRANCISCO — Google Inc. ed and targeted attack on our corpo-could force it to shut down its will stop censoring its search results rate infrastructure originating from Chinese site and its offices in the in China and may pull out of the China.” Further investigation country. country completely after discovering revealed that “a primary goal of the It’s unclear how much of a blow to that computer hackers had tricked attackers was accessing the Gmail its business Google would suffer by human rights activists into opening accounts of Chinese human rights pulling out. China has the world’s their e-mail accounts to outsiders. activists,” Google said in the post largest population of Internet users, 
The change-of-heart announced written by Chief Legal Officer David but Google has struggled to expand Tuesday heralds a major shift for Drummond. in the country, where it has less than Google, which has repeatedly said it Google did not specifically accuse 30 percent of the search market, ver­will obey Chinese laws that require the Chinese government. But the sus more than 60 percent for local some politically and socially sensitive company long associated with a rival Baidu Inc. issues to be blocked from search motto of “don’t be evil” added that it The larger effect could be in how results that are available in other is “no longer willing to continue cen-global Internet companies operate in countries. soring our results” on its Chinese China. 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 8 Wednesday, January 13, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

TheObserveristheindependent,dailynewspaper publishedinprintandonlinebythestudentsofthe UniversityofNotreDameduLacandSaintMary’s College.Editorialcontent,includingadvertisements,is notgovernedbypoliciesoftheadministrationofeither institution.TheObserverreservestherighttorefuse advertisementsbasedoncontent. 
Thenewsisreportedasaccuratelyandobjectivelyas possible.Unsignededitorialsrepresenttheopinionof themajorityoftheEditorinChief,ManagingEditor, AssistantManagingEditorsanddepartmenteditors. Commentaries,lettersandcolumnspresenttheviews oftheauthorsandnotnecessarilythoseofThe Observer. 
Viewpointspaceisavailabletoallreaders.Thefree expressionofallopinionsthroughlettersisencouraged. LetterstotheEditormustbesignedandmustinclude contactinformation. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Welcome Coach Kelly ... sort of 
The Irish Nation — which engulfs the entire Domer Nation of which the Fightin’ Italians are a small subset — certainly is proud of your move to Notre Dame. For them, a Kelly at the Notre Dame football helm is as good as steal­ing a leprechaun’s pot of gold. Yet, despite next sea­son’s less than strenuous power-ranked schedule, many of my fellow classmates (both Irish and other) merely express Gary Caruso “cautious opti-

Capitol
mism” regarding 

Comments
your tenure. Having been burned so often in the past, they “sort of” hold an optimistic view of the state of football at du Lac. However, this Fightin’ Italian is pre­pared to shout Dick Vitale style, “At least 9-and-3 next year, baby!” 
With that said, let me offer a few words of advice, especially after read­ing every word of the December press conference that introduced you as the 29th Notre Dame head football coach. First, your professed passion and dedi­cation to detail is magnificent. Please drive your players crazy learning the rules. In 1989 Lou Holtz lost a national championship on one play when a defensive player who should have known the rules of his time, namely that he could not advance a Miami fum­ble in the Hurricane red zone, tired to scoop it up and run. Consequently, he never recovered the fumble for Notre Dame, leaving Miami with third and twenty-eight or something nearly impossible to convert ... until on the next play the Hurricanes converted a first down and drove down the field to beat the Irish and burn most of the game clock. At season’s end, both teams had one loss but the pollsters passed over Notre Dame to award Miami the national championship using our head-to-head loss as the rationale. Please teach our players when they can step 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
back into the end zone on a kickoff or punt and when to stay in bounds or head out of bounds depending on game conditions. 
Secondly, fans and people in general are mean-spirited in the blogosphere. I suggest that you adopt the rule that Presidents Clinton, Bush and Obama set for their children — no media coverage. Forgive my Harry Potter metaphor, but the last coach whose name cannot be mentioned, offered his family as public domain fodder when he allowed them to roam the sideline during games rather than sit out of the television spotlight. The personal attacks against him and indecent remarks about his special needs child were enough to make anyone with the tiniest bit of a family value vomit in response. Avoid giving the anonymous knuckleheads a reason to trash your family. 
Regarding the type of student-athlete who plays on our team, use the General George S. Patton standard that you will not tolerate any conduct that would bring dishonor to the team. Residing now in the town of the soldier Patton slapped may seem ironic, but setting a zero tolerance from the top down builds character and teaches humility. Two years ago, this writer personally wit­nessed an about-to-be departing foot­ball player, whose name shall also go unmentioned, arrogantly yell at other students, “Don’t you know who I am?” 
Granted, students are not mature adults but need to learn savvy when thrust into celebrity on campus for the nation to scrutinize. As a student, I sat in a class with Joe Theismann, who while knowing he was a campus icon, treated me with respect and humility. Look towards Chris Zorich or Aaron Taylor — both of whom I interacted with while they were students — as classic role models of how a Notre Dame star should interact with others. You probably will need a team person­ality somewhere between the extrovert­ed enthusiasm of former Notre Dame Coach Jerry Faust and the detached, arms-length persona of New England Patriots Coach Bill Belichick. 
Finally, hire the meanest Mean Joe Greene-type of pit-bull biting defensive coordinator — the type of coach who can befuddle and confuse your oppo­nents while inspiring players with the drive of Rudy and the take-no-prisoners smash-mouth attitude of Jack Lambert, Ray Lewis and Joey Porter. Oh, and while we are considering coaches, make sure your special teams coach is, as former Notre Dame Coach Dan Devine once said when he landed in Pittsburgh, “Special!” 
Please land the best special teams coach Fr. Jenkin’s salary can buy, because in an instant they can give us a momentum swing, an unlikely win or even another Heisman Trophy winner. How many times did Tim Brown excite the crowd by winning a game in college as well as professional football? Please consider devoting the extra one per­cent, or the 34th percent of the total, to special teams play when you divide your three team phases of the game. It sure would make the other two-thirds of the game run more smoothly by shortening the field for our offense, pin­ning the other team deep on their end of the field or by consistently scoring field goals from 50-plus yards away. 
Finally, Coach, can you hurry and decide the date for the spring Blue-Gold game? I’ve already missed several trav­el specials because nobody can tell me which April weekend you will play the game. While my Irish Nation friends express caution, this Fightin’ Italian is eager to watch your team ... and more than “sort of” support your efforts. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column will appear every other Friday this semester. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


TODAY’S STAFF 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
News Viewpoint 
Sarah Mervosh Patricia Liz O’Donnell Fernandez John Cameron Sports Graphics Chris Masoud 
“Complain to one who can help
Sofia Iturbe Douglas Farmer you.” Scene Allan Joseph 
Yugoslav Proverb 
Jordan Gamble 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Remember that what you believewill depend very much on what youare.” 
Noah Porter 
U.S. academic 

The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Wednesday, January 13, 2010 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

As a first-generation African-American college graduate from a low-income community in Alabama, my life is a true testament to hope, determination, and the impact of meaningful relationships with effective teachers. When I think back to one of my proudest moments, May 20, 2007 parades itself across my mind. That day marked the culmination of an incredible journey I began in the fall of 2003 as a freshman at the University of Notre Dame. For four years, I had learned to examine con­structs critically, intertwine my faith and passion for social justice, and make a valuable contribution to our local, national, and global landscape. I remember how my heart raced that day, reminiscing about my four years at Notre Dame and contemplating the days and weeks to come. Shortly after graduation, I was to begin a new jour­ney as a Teach For America corps member in South Louisiana … an experience that would truly change the course of my life. 
For these past two years, I have been a fourth grade teacher in a rural, low-income community on the out­skirts of Baton Rouge, La. Through the pre-service training and professional 
An experience of a lifetime 
development Teach For America pro­vided, I learned the pillars of effective instruction, was consistently support­ed by instructional coaches, and was prepared to transform an environment of academic challenges into a vibrant setting of excellence. The training I received contributed to my success in the classroom and as a leader in vari­ous other settings and while I certainly encountered obstacles, I was able to overcome them by working with stu­dents, parents and administrators to ensure that all my students achieved significant academic gains. 
When I reflect upon the challenges and progress of my students, I think of K’Wien, whom I met during my second year in the classroom. The first moment I laid eyes upon him, I knew he was a force to be reckoned with. I quickly came to realize though that K’Wien was a really good kid who was afraid to let his guard down. After diagnosing his math and reading skills, I found that he was on grade level in math, but his reading skills were far behind. His fluency was on a second-grade reading level of only 62 words per minute, the second lowest diagnostic score in my class. 
K’Wien exerted very little effort in class or on any of his homework, so I began to call his mom to explain his progress. Although, I began to see him try a little harder it simply wasn’t enough. I decided to speak with his pee-wee football coach who promised that if K’Wien didn’t put forth effort in class, he’d be benched from all subse­quent games. By connecting with his influencers and through a lot of inten­sive one-on-one reading sessions, K’Wien’s grades began to increase dramatically. By November, he had reached reading 94 words per minute and before Christmas break, his fluen­cy was at a record high of 114 words per minute, well beyond the expecta­tions set nationally for fourth grade. Most rewardingly, when K’Wien would enter my classroom he would hug me and say, “Good morning, Ms. Hardy!” as I greeted him with “Good morning, rockstar!” 
I felt that as a young woman of color I was able to have an additional impact on K’Wien and my other stu­dents. My school was predominantly made up of African-American and biracial students. There is power in being able to see and visualize your­self fulfilling your dreams. Not only did they hear me speak passionately about the fact that they could achieve anything but they were saw a living example of someone from their same ethnic background and socioeconomic status telling them they were capable of whatever they set their minds to. In addition to the core curriculum, I taught my students that their zip code didn’t have to determine their destiny. 
As a person of color, I feel a personal call to ensure that I contribute to clos­ing the achievement gap that affects millions of children across our nation. If you too identify as a talented minor­ity student leader, consider the impact you can have in the lives of disadvan­taged youth. Your voice and presence are necessary. And even if you do not self-identify as a minority, consider the incredible impact you can have by becoming a Teach For America corps member and joining the movement to eliminate educational inequity. In the famous words of Mahatma Gandhi, “be the change you want to see in the world.” Go Irish! 
Krystal Hardy 
alumnus classof2007 Nov.6 

Thank you 
I wanted to write to share the warmth I felt Wednesday before break, during the near-blizzard watching a student go out of her way to help a student in need. 
I was leaving LaFortune just after 5 p.m., when the storm was going strong and all anyone wanted to do was get inside. I noticed a blind student struggling with the wind and the snow and his cane, clearly having prob­lems finding his way. Clearly, the young woman a few steps ahead of me noticed at the same time, as I watched a young woman approach the stu­dent and offer her assistance. She, too, was headed away from LaFortune, but took the time to take the student’s arm and lead him back the way she’d come. 
I am sure that the blind student thanked the woman for her kindness, but I wanted to as well. The other day my 10-year-old son and I made a pact to always step in and help people when it seems they need it, even when we might feel inclined to mind our own business. This moment was a perfect example of what such an act might mean not only for those involved, but for those who witness it as well. 
Jessica Collett 
professor DepartmentofSociology Dec.10 



DormBooks strikes again 
The following viewpoint discusses an e­mail sent out to the student body on Sunday night by Jeff Tarullo regarding DormBooks.com: 
First of all, someone definitely screwed up in allowing the e-mail to get through to the entire student body and it caused some laughter to emanate throughout my quad. 
However, more importantly, it’s good that DormBooks is yet again finding some way to promote themselves even as Notre Dame continues to attempt to compete with and stop the group. It strikes me as somewhat disgusting that Notre Dame has failed to facilitate such a smart and scalable business plan. Notre Dame holds business plan com­petitions and is constantly encouraging entrepreneurial efforts with a top ranked business program in the field, but the school fails to see the benefits of a business like DormBooks. 
Immediately, it provides cheaper books to a student body that struggles to meet tuition needs, and the ancillary benefits are also numerous. If the creator of DormBooks could scale this business to campuses across the United States with the help of Notre Dame, I have no doubt that some of the money from this business will come back to Notre Dame in the form of ROI (return on investment) and/or donations back to the school from a grateful student and entrepre­neur.  Instead, this business has been met on campus with adversity. 
If I were Notre Dame, I’d change my men­tality quick because in the long run, DormBooks is going to end up taking all the textbook business from the bookstore any­way. 
Mike Matheson 
junior Alumni Hall Dec. 14 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The Observer 


Scene
page 10 Wednesday, January 13, 2010 


“The Matrix” “Twilight” Harry Potter Vampires, werewolves and humans “Alvin and the Chipmunks: The Squeakquel” Brangelina Embellished hats Black nail polish Kanye West “The Hills” “High School Musical” “Gossip Girl” “The Office” Fame-whore reality TV couples “Arrested Development” reruns on Hulu State of the Union address Senators’ scandals Michael Phelps 
Pete Carroll Charlie Weis Golden Tate and Jimmy Clausen 
Observer Graphic I SOFIA ITURBE 

The Observer 


Scene
Wednesday, January 13, 2010 page 11 

“Avatar” “Beastly” Percy Jackson Aliens and humans “Toy Story 3” Russell Brand and Katy Perry Embellished earmuffs Metallic nail polish Taylor Swift “Jersey Shore” “Glee” “Vampire Diaries” “Parks and Recreation” Psychotherapy reality TV “Arrested Development” movie “Lost” season premiere Tiger’s “transgressions” Apollo Anton Ohno 

NCAA sanctions Brian Kelly Taylor Swift’s little brother 
Observer Graphic I SOFIA ITURBE 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, January 13, 2010 
MLB 

Remorseful McGwire admits to steroid use 
in 1961 should be considered 
Associated Press 
the authentic record. 

NEW YORK — Finally willing “They have every right to,” to talk about the past, Mark McGwire said in an interview McGwire sobbed and sniffled, on the MLB Network. giving the missing — and In his AP interview, unsurprising — answer to the McGwire’s voice shook when steroids question. he recounted breaking the 
Ending more than a decade news to his son, Matt, who is of denials and evasion, 22. When McGwire hit the McGwire admitted Monday record homer, he hoisted Matt that steroids and human — then a 10-year-old batboy growth hormone helped make — at home plate. The former him a home run king. player called that conversation 
“The toughest thing is my the toughest task in the wife, my parents, close friends ordeal. have had no idea that I hid it “The biggest thing that they from them all this time,” he said is they’re very proud of told The Associated Press in me, that I’m doing this,” he an emotional, 20-minute inter-said. “They all believe it’s for view. “I knew this day was the better.” going to come. I didn’t know While McGwire admitted when.” conduct many had assumed, it 
In a quavering voice, marked a huge fall for a play-McGwire apologized and said er considered one of the greats he used steroids and human a decade ago. growth hormone on and off for “I admire him for doing it. a decade, starting before the I’m sure it wasn’t easy,” 1990 season and including the Cincinnati manager Dusty year he broke Roger Maris’ Baker said. “Maybe he’s clear-single-season home run record ing his conscience.” in 1998. McGwire was a baseball icon 
“I wish I had never touched — Big Mac, with a Paul steroids,” McGwire said. “It Bunyan physique and a home was foolish and it was a mis-run swing that made fans take.” come out to the ballpark early 
He had mostly disappeared to watch batting practice. He since his infamous testimony hit 583 home runs, tied for before a congressional com-eighth on the career list, and mittee in March 2005, when his average of one every 10.6 he repeatedly said, “I’m not at-bats is the best ever. way between him being “This statement of contrition, I “I wanted to get this off my here to talk about the past,” a His record of 70 home runs inducted into Cooperstown, we believe, will make Mark’s re-chest, I wanted to move on, response that made him an in 1998 was surpassed by should all forgive him.” entry into the game much but unfortunately immunity object of ridicule during his Barry Bonds’ 73 homers in McGwire said he first used smoother and easier.” was not granted,” he said. self-imposed exile. 2001 — the year of McGwire’s steroids between the 1989 and McGwire became the second McGwire’s lawyers, Mark 
Once he was hired by the retirement and the apex of the 1990 seasons, after helping major baseball star in less Bierbower and Marty Cardinals in October to be Steroids Era. Bonds himself the Oakland Athletics to a than a year to admit using ille-Steinberg, told him that if he their hitting coach, however, has denied knowingly using World Series sweep when he gal steroids, following the New made any admission, he could he knew he had to say some-illegal drugs but has been and Jose Canseco formed the York Yankees’ Alex Rodriguez be charged with a crime and thing before the start of spring indicted on charges he made Bash Brothers. He returned to last February. Big Mac and A-that he, his family and friends training in mid-February. false statements to a federal steroids after the 1993 season, Rod, coincidentally, are cur-could be forced to testify 
“He knows he owes the base-grand jury and obstructed jus-when he missed all but 27 rently tied on the home-run before a grand jury. ball world an explanation,” tice. games with a mysterious heel list. “That was the worst 48 said former Rep. Tom Davis, In four appearances on the injury, after being told steroids San Francisco Giants manag-hours of my life, going through the Virginia Republican who Hall of Fame ballot, McGwire might speed his recovery. er Bruce Bochy expects more that, but I had to listen to the chaired the hearing. “I don’t has hovered at 21-24 percent, “I did this for health purpos-players to admit what they advice of my attorneys,” he think anybody’s surprised by well below the 75 percent nec-es. There’s no way I did this did. said. this. He was one of hundreds essary. for any type of strength pur-“The ones who have come He knew that Don Hooton, of players who used steroids “This has nothing to do with poses,” he said. forward and been straight whose son’s suicide was linked during this time. ... This was the Hall of Fame,” he said. After being confronted by have been forgiven, and to steroid use, was in the audi­so widespread. Had we not “This has to do with me com-the AP during the home run they’ve moved on,” he said. ence. held these hearings and put ing clean, getting it off my streak in 1998, McGwire “The fans and baseball have “Every time I’d say, ‘I’m not the fear of God into baseball, it chest, and five years that I’ve admitted using androstene-dealt with them in a positive going to talk about the past,’ would still be going on.” held this in.” dione, a steroid precursor that way.” I’d hear moanings back there. 
Before a carefully rolled out Yet, he sounded as if all the was then legally available and Besides Bonds, others facing It was absolutely ripping my schedule of statements and criticism had wounded the didn’t become a controlled questions include Roger heart out,” McGwire said, his interviews, McGwire called pride he had built as the 1987 substance until 2004. Baseball Clemens, Manny Ramirez and voice cracking. “All I was wor­commissioner Bud Selig, St. AL Rookie of the Year and a and its players didn’t agree to David Ortiz. Like Bonds, they ried about was protecting my Louis manager Tony La Russa 12-time All-Star. ban steroids until a year after have denied knowingly using family and myself. And I was and Maris’ widow, Pat, on “There’s no way a pill or an his retirement. illegal or banned substances. willing to take the hit.” Monday to personally break injection will give you hand-McGwire’s 70 homers in Clemens is under investigation Bierbower told the AP in a the news. eye coordination or the ability 1998 came in a compelling by a federal grand jury trying telephone interview that he 
He started by issuing a state-or the great mind that I’ve had race with Sammy Sosa, who to determine whether he lied had instructed McGwire not to ment and calling the AP. as a baseball player,” he said. finished with 66. More than to a congressional committee. make any admissions before 
“It was a wrong thing what I Hank Aaron, baseball’s for-anything else, the home run McGwire said he hoped to Congress. did. I totally regret it. I just mer career home run champi-spree revitalized baseball fol-come forward at the congres-“He also had a situation wish I was never in that era,” on, responded with a concilia-lowing the crippling strike that sional hearing, when he sat where his brother had been he said. tory tone. wiped out the 1994 World alongside Sosa and Rafael giving him steroids and he did-
McGwire even understands “He has my forgiveness,” Series. Palmeiro, who denied using n’t want to create a risk for his why the Maris family now Aaron told USA Today. “If Commissioner Bud Selig steroids but tested positive for brother, either,” Bierbower believes that Maris’ 61 homers that’s all that stands in the praised McGwire, saying, one later that year. said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Available today! Two newly renovat-Did you enjoy winter break? If so, John: Hey, what’s your New Year’s Wesley: “Life is pain, Highness, 
ed houses . seriously consider becming a pro-Resolution for 2010? anyone who tells you any differently FOR RENT PERSONAL fessional coach potato. The bene-Brian: I’m going to work out at the is selling something.” 
1203 Hillcrest Rd 3 blocks to cam-fits range from never having to gym 5 days a week. Top that. Boy: “I wasn’t nervous. Maybe I HOUSE FOR RENT $500/PERSON pus - 5 BR, $300/mo per BR. and CONSIDERING ADOPTION? ND leave the house to watching multi-John: What a lame resolution. was a little bit “concerned” but that’s 2 FULL BATHS 4 BDRM **WALK 705 N Eddy ALUMS hoping to adopt. Please ple reruns of MTV’s Real World. So Brian: So, what about yourself? not the same thing.” TO ND** 54650 WILLIS CALL 574-visit our website you won’t have the 15 bucks a John: I am going to maintain a 4.0 Narrator: “One day, she found out 277-8471 7 blocks to campus 5 BR, http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro-week from working at Dick’s the whole year. that when he said ‘As you wish.’ , ——————————————— $250/mo per. file.net. Sporting Goods, but you will have Brian: You, my friend, need to eat a what he meant was, ‘I love you.’” OFF-campus housing, Irish ——————————————— the greatest life ever. You can even twix and think about that one again. Inigo Montoya: “Hello. My name is Crossings and Dublin Village 3 and See Craig s List ad or Call: Karen raise your kids and spend time with ——————————————— Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. 4 bdr, furnished and unfurnished. 708-261-4128 or Amy: 574-226-Hey freshman, look at your waist your family on the job. If you’re still Prepare to die.” January and June 2010 leases 8598, for additional information or line. Is it getting bigger? If so, you interested, contact your local temp Having fun in the snow? Learn to ——————————————— available. www.cespm.info Call to see the homes are probably a victim of the fresh-agency today. make snowangels, snowmen, and Be a useful human being. Learn 574-968-0112 man 15. sleds online today. how to bake cookies. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 

Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Wednesday, January 13, 2010 
page 13 

NCAA Men’s Basketball AP Top 25 
team previous 
1 Texas 2 2 Kentucky 3 3 Kansas 1 4 Villanova 6 5 Syracuse 7 6 Purdue 4 7 Michigan State 10 8 Duke 5 9 Tennessee 16 10 West Virginia 8 11 Georgetown 12 12 North Carolina 9 13 Kansas State 11 13 Wisconsin 17 15 Connecticut 13 16 Pittsburgh 23 17 Gonzaga 19 18 Brigham Young 25 19 Temple 21 20 Georgia Tech 20 21 Mississippi 14 22 Baylor NR 23 Miami (Fla.) NR 24 Clemson NR 25 Florida State 18 
Final AP NCAA Football Top 25 
team  previous  
1  Alabama  1  
2  Texas  2  
3  Florida  5  
4  Boise State  6  
5  Ohio State  8  
6  Texas Christian  3  
7  Iowa  10  
8  Cincinnati  4  
9  Penn State  11  
10  Virginia Tech  12  
11  Oregon  7  
12  Brigham Young  15  
13  Georgia Tech  9  
14  Nebraska  20  
15  Pittsburgh  17  
16  Wisconsin  24  
17  Louisiana State  13  
18  Utah  23  
19  Miami (Fla.)  14  
20  Mississippi  NR  
21  Texas Tech  NR  
22  Southern California  NR  
23  Central Michigan  25  
24  Clemson  NR  
25  West Virginia  18  



around the dial 
NCAA Basketball 
Boston College at Duke 7 p.m., ESPN 
Kansas at Nebraska 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 


Carroll introduced as Seahawks coach 
Associated Press 

RENTON, Wash. — Pete Carroll pumped his fist. He talked excitedly and force­fully. He chopped the air with his hands, command­ing his new audience. 
Even though he had stepped back up into the NFL, he was still in charge 
— which is exactly why he’s in Seattle now instead of Southern California. 
The charismatic Carroll took over as the new coach and executive vice president of the Seahawks on Tuesday, enthusiastically seizing an authority that he says mirrors the latitude USC gave him to restore its dynasty. 
“They have embraced my approach ... in a manner in which they want to wipe the path clear and give me the clearest opportunity to bring everything that I have to offer. That’s really what I was looking for, the trust and belief from the top of the organization,” Carroll said a day after his public farewell from USC. 
“They don’t have an agen­da of how they want their football played. They want me to do that. That’s exactly and precisely what I was looking for.” 
After hugging current Seahawk and former USC defensive end Lawrence Jackson in the back of the auditorium, the 58-year-old Carroll was breathless describing how he snared the exact opportunity he’s always wanted in the NFL 
— but never thought he’d get after New England fired him following three seasons as coach through 1999. 
“I am so fired up to be here today. Right from the beginning, they undersold. This is a tremendous place to come to work,” Carroll said moments after Seahawks CEO Tod Leiweke led him on a tour of the Seahawks’ luxurious head­quarters for the first time. 
Absorbing the scene and what the riches of Seahawks owner and Microsoft Corp. tycoon Paul Allen are affording him, Carroll said: “It’s really almost dreamlike for me.” 
The coach who went 97­19 with two national cham­pionships and seven consec­utive Pac-10 titles while at USC wore a dark blue suit and paisley tie patterned in Seahawks green and blue. 
The look was new. The Seahawks promise his role will be familiar. 
“As guys get other jobs around the league, there isn’t always that level of trust and communication from the top down, and there isn’t always that will­ingness to let you do exactly what you feel and how you should do it. That’s what I’ve been given here — and I can’t tell you how excited I am about that,” Carroll said. “That is what I had at ‘SC, and is when I’ve had my best success.” 
IN BRIEF 

Crennel and Weis may be reunited with Chiefs 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — Former Cleveland Browns coach Romeo Crennel has spoken to the New York Giants by telephone about their vacant defensive coordinator’s job but is giving the Kansas City Chiefs the first shot at hiring him. 
Crennel’s agent, Joe Linta, said in an e-mail to The Associated Press on Tuesday that Crennel talked to the Giants on Monday. 
Linta said Crennel is focused on becoming the Chiefs’ defensive coordi­nator. 
Chiefs coach Todd Haley has yet to clarify the status of current defensive coordinator Clancy Pendergast, who is still on the staff. 
Last week, the Chiefs hired former Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis as offensive coordinator. Weis previously was the offensive coordinator in New England under Bill Belichick at the same time Crennel coordinated the defense. 
Goalie Curtis Joseph retires from hockey 
TORONTO — Goaltender Curtis Joseph has retired, ending a nine-teen-year career in the NHL in which he was number four on the career victory list. 
The 42-year-old Joseph is the winningest goalie to have never won the Stanley Cup. He had 454 victories, trailing only Martin Brodeur (585), Patrick Roy (551) and Ed Belfour (484). 
He said Tuesday he had a “great career” and “didn’t leave anything on the table.” He spoke at a news conference in Toronto, where he ended his career with the Maple Leafs. 
Joseph entered the league as an undrafted free agent. In addition to the Maple Leafs, he also played for the Saint Louis Blues, 
E d m o n t o n  O i l e r s ,  D e t r o i t  R e d  
W i n g s ,  P h o e n i x  C o y o t e s ,  a n d  
Calgary Flames.  

F1 driver Piquet Jr. to join NASCAR in 2010 
MADRID — Former Renault Formula One driver Nelson Piquet Jr., who last year triggered a scandal by revealing he deliberately crashed his car to help a teammate, is moving to NASCAR in 2010. 
Piquet Jr. said Tuesday on his Web site that his “first 18 months in F1 did not go as planned. I have decided to focus on something different and have chosen to take a route in America.” 
Piquet Jr. hasn’t raced since being fired by Renault in August after 28 races in which his best finish was sec­ond at the 2008 German GP. He did not reveal which team he would race for but says more details will come soon. 
The 24-year-old Brazilian driver, the son of three-time F1 champion Nelson Piquet, admitted crashing his car at the 2008 Singapore Grand Prix on team orders to help Fernando Alonso win the race. 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, January 13, 2010 
NFL 

Packers CB Woodson named top defender 
passes defensed, four forced Rod Woodson (1993) and Jason cornerback, taking away such best year a corner has ever 
Associated Press 

fumbles and one recovery, two Taylor (2006) when they won prime threats as Steve Smith, had, the most impact a corner NEW YORK — In his own sacks for 18 the award. “I Randy Moss, Andre Johnson, has ever had in the National view, Charles Woodson put yards and three think it speaks Terrell Owens, Chad Ochocinco Football League. That’s my 
“I’m just going to
together his best pro season in q u a r t e r b a c k volumes when and Marques Colston. He had opinion. Apparently, that was­2009. How appropriate, then, hits. keep taking shots he was player of six picks, returning one for a n’t how everybody felt.” that he is The Associated Press “I’ve said it until I get back to the the month in TD. Denver linebacker Elvis 2009 NFL Defensive Player of before, he’s had September and Jets coach Rex Ryan was Dumervil, who led the league 
Super Bowl —and 
the Year. two or three came back and upset Revis didn’t win. in sacks, and New Orleans The versatile Woodson tied games that I win it.” got player of the “It’s unfortunate in that you safety Darren Sharper, who for the league lead with nine can’t imagine month again (in can’t get a higher individual tied with Woodson for the interceptions, returning three any defensive November).” award than that award,” Ryan interceptions lead and also ran 
Charles Woodson 
for touchdowns, and was a key player in the In his third said. “Hopefully, he’s a young, back three for scores, each got 
Packers cornerback 
to the Packers’ turnaround on league having season, Revis talented player, but you can’t three votes. Minnesota end defense. His role in Green better games,” established him-take anything for granted. Jared Allen received the other Bay’s ranking second in overall said Capers, who also coached self as the league’s premier “This, in my opinion, was the two votes. defense, first in interceptions (30), takeaways (40) and turnover margin (plus-24) earned Woodson 28 votes Tuesday from a nationwide panel of 50 sports writers and broadcasters who cover the NFL. 
“It’s a great honor,” Woodson said in a telephone interview Tuesday. “I felt like I put a lot into the game, mentally and physically — your body’s always beat up — and it’s great to be recognized.” 
He doubled the number of votes for New York Jets cor­nerback Darrelle Revis in becoming the first Green Bay winner since Reggie White in 1998 and just the second Packer in the 36-year history of the award. 
Woodson, the 1997 Heisman Trophy recipient, is the first cornerback chosen top defen­sive player since Deion Sanders in 1994. 
After a disappointing per­formance by the Packers defense in Sunday’s 51-45 overtime playoff loss at Arizona, Woodson is more motivated than ever to pursue the one honor that has eluded him in his career: a Super Bowl victory. 
“That’s it,” Woodson said. “Especially now, to get this award, I’ve done everything an individual can do.” 
How much longer will he play? 
“I’m just going to keep tak­ing shots until I get back to the Super Bowl — and win it,” Woodson said. 
He got the honor in great part because of the way he anchored a defense in transi­tion. Woodson was used in a variety of ways by new defen­sive coordinator Dom Capers as Green Bay made the switch to a 3-4. At times, the unit was shaky — except for Woodson, who played the role of cover cornerback, blitzer, run-stuffer and ballhawk. 
“Any time you go out there on the field, you go out there to win the game, of course,” Woodson said, “but you go out there to be consistent and a reliable player. And that’s what that award is. You go out there, you can make plays and can continue to make them through the season and you’re mentioned as far as being Defensive Player of the Year, you know you’re doing some things right.” 
The Packers went 11-5 dur­ing the season, including tak­ing seven of eight games in the second half of the schedule to secure an NFC wild-card berth. In that span, Green Bay allowed 15.6 points per game. Take away a last-second 37-36 loss to Pittsburgh, and the number becomes a minuscule 11.4. 
Woodson had 63 unassisted tackles and 18 assists, accord­ing to the Packers, plus 21 


Wednesday, January 13, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NHL 

Burrow’s accusations to be reviewed by NHL 
Associated Press 
TORONTO — The NHL is looking into a claim by Vancouver’s Alexandre Burrows that a referee made payback calls against him, and the Canucks are in sup­port of their feisty forward. 
The league said Tuesday that Colin Campbell, the NHL’s top disciplinarian, was reviewing the matter. Burrows accused referee 
“That’s the first time I’ve seen calls like that, especially when the game is on the line,” Luongo said after the game. “It cost us the game.” 
An unsportsmanlike conduct penalty and 10-minute mis­conduct followed for Burrows with 4 seconds left. 
“It was personal,” Burrows said after the game. “It start­ed in warm up before the anthem. The ref came over to me and said I made him look 

Stephane Auger  “That’s the frst time  b ad  i n  
of targeting him in the Canucks’  I’ve seen calls like  N a s h vill e o n t h e Sm i t h so n  
3-2 loss  to the  that, especially when  hit. He said he  
N a s h v i l l e P red a t o r s in Va nc o u ver on  the game is on the line.”  w a s g o i n g t o g e t m e ba ck tonight and he  
Monday.  d i d  h i s  jo b  i n  
B u r r o w s ,  Roberto Luongo  the third.”  
Ca m p be ll  a n d  Canucks Goalie  The officiat- 

Canucks gener­al manager Mike Gillis were scheduled to hold a conference call to dis­cuss the matter Tuesday night after the team practiced in Minnesota. 
After coming off the ice, Burrows declined to elaborate 
on his comments from the night before, trying to keep the subject on Wednesday’s game against the Wild. 
“We had a great card game on the plane. We got in, had a great practice and now we’re focused on Minnesota,” Burrows said. 
Coach Alain Vigneault said he wasn’t concerned about a distraction. 
“As coaches and players our focus has to be on the next game,” Vigneault said. “Let management and the NHL deal with what transpired on the ice yesterday.” 
Goalie Roberto Luongo acknowledged players were still thinking about the game in the morning, but insisted the flight from Canada helped clear their minds. 
“We can’t be worrying about what’s going to happen with the officiating. We’ve just got to stay with the process,” Luongo said. 
Burrows said Monday that Auger told him during the pregame warmup he was going to “get me back” for a Dec. 8 incident that left ing crew polite­
ly declined to comment when approached by the Associated Press while leaving the arena late Monday. 
Gillis was unavailable for comment Tuesday. He told the Vancouver Province he was helping Burrows build his case to the league. 
“We’ll see what they say about the circumstances and go from there,” Gillis told the newspaper. “I think it’s uncharted territory and I’m not quite sure what to expect.” 
Gillis added: “I know our team was a frustrated group. We lost two points which were vital. I think there was obvi­
ous frustration on Alex’s part.” 
Burrows has scored nine of his 19 goals in the last five games, and earlier Monday he was named the NHL’s first star for last week after scor­ing three goals in back-to­back games for the Canucks’ surging top line. Sedin leads the league with 63 points. 
“After my second penalty I skated by him and he said, ‘If you say a word I am going to kick you out,’ so I didn’t say a word because I still thought we could come back and win the game,” Burrows said after the game. “But with 3 seconds left and the faceoff outside the 
zone I thought I could tell him 

Burrows lying  “He is a character  what I thought  
on the ice but able to return f o r h i s n e x t  guy. Every guy in that room would go  about him.” On Tu e s d a y after practice,  
shift. N a s h v i l l e ’ s J e r r e d  through the wall for him.”  d e f e n s e m a n Shane O’Brien d e f e n d e d  
S  m  i t h  s  o n  B u r r o w s ’ s  
r e c e i v e d  a  Shane O’Brien  behavior.  
m a j or  a nd  Canucks defenseman  “He is a char- 

game miscon ­duct penalty for charging Burrows in that game, but the call was later 
overturned by the league because it said Burrows took a dive. 
On Monday, Auger called Burrows for diving and inter­ference in the third period, leaving him to watch from the penalty box when Shea Weber score the winner for the Predators. 
The disputed interference penalty ended a Vancouver power play after just 4 sec­onds, and a penalty on Henrik Sedin left the Canucks short a man before Weber’s 4-on-3 goal. 
acter guy. Every 
guy in that room would go through the wall for him,” O’Brien said. “Obviously he was upset, and that happens sometimes, but we’re moving forward.” 
He added: “We need him focused and playing his game. Because without him, we’re definitely not as good a hock­ey team.” 
O’Brien also lent some empathy to the officials. 
“Nobody said being a ref is the easiest job in the world,” he said. “They’re human and they make mistakes. Sometimes the calls are for you, and sometimes they go against you.” 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Lane Kiffn returns to USC 
Associated Press 
Lane Kiffin will be the next USC coach, Rivals.com has confirmed. 
Kiffin will replace Pete Carroll, who left to take the Seattle Seahawks head coaching job. Kiffin coached Tennessee for one year, leading the Vols to a 7-6 record and a trip to the Chick-fil-A Bowl. 
“We are really excited to welcome Lane Kiffin back to USC,” Trojans athletic direc­tor Mike Garrett told the Associated Press. “I was able to watch him closely when he was an assistant with us, and what I saw was a bright, creative young coach who I thought would make an excellent head coach here if the opportunity ever arose. I’m confident he and his staff will keep USC football performing at the high level that we expect.” 
Kiffin was a USC assistant for Carroll from 2001-06, rising to offensive coordina­tor. 
Kiffin became the youngest head coach in modern NFL history in early 2007 when Al Davis named him to lead the Oakland Raiders. After going 4-12 his first year with the Raiders, ESPN reported that Davis drafted a letter of resignation for Kiffin to sign in January 2008. But Kiffin was defiant and continued to clash with Davis until he was fired Sept. 30, 2008. He fin­ished 5-15 as NFL coach. 
Davis called Kiffin a liar in a bizarre news conference trashing his former coach. Kiffin later filed a grievance against the Raiders after his dismissal, claiming he was fired without cause and seeking pay for the two months between jobs in Oakland and Knoxville. He was officially hired by Tennessee on Dec. 1, 2008. 

Kiffin, 34, will bring his father, longtime NFL defen­sive coordinator Monte Kiffin with him to USC. Former Mississippi head coach Ed Orgeron, a former Trojans assistant, is also headed back to USC as part of Kiffin’s staff. 
“Ed did a marvelous job during his previous time at USC, and we all know that Monte is a defensive guru,” Garrett told AP. “I know Lane will fill out his staff with other outstanding assis-tants like them, ones who Trojan players and fans will really like.” 

Carroll, 58, left USC for the Seahawks on Monday, sign­ing a five-year, $33 million deal. He went 97-19 over nine seasons at USC with two national championships and seven Pac-10 titles. 
USC is awaiting a hearing with the NCAA’s Committee on Infractions in February, regarding allegations of improprieties in both the football and men’s basket­ball programs. Kiffin made headlines at Tennessee for committing several minor NCAA violations. 
NBA 

Two more Wizards speak out 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — With vari­ous players missing for various reasons, including some who had to talk to authorities about the Gilbert Arenas gun investi­gation, only eight members of the Washington Wizards were warming up on court Tuesday as coach Flip Saunders spoke nearby. 
“Right now, there is definitely going to be discipline,” Saunders intoned, “whether they like it or not.” 
Clearly, Saunders has his hands full at the moment. He is in his first year with a team dealing with far more serious matters than its 12-24 record after Tuesday night’s 99-90 loss to the visiting Detroit Pistons — a club that had lost its previous 13 games. 
“We just weren’t mentally alert,” Saunders said after the game. 
Asked how much the short­handed practices and distrac­tions might have played a role in the defeat, Saunders said: “I don’t want to blame it on that, because we might have a lot of those days here over the next month.” 
Two Wizards, Javale McGee and Mike Miller, were absent from the morning shootaround because they were going to be questioned about what hap­pened with Arenas, who was suspended indefinitely by the NBA last week. 

“It’s hard, because every day we’ve been going through so much,” guard Nick Young said. 
Another player, Andray Blatche, also was slated to be speaking about the Arenas case 
— and he was barred from practicing anyway Tuesday, having been suspended for the Pistons game for conduct detri­mental to the team. 
“He said, ‘Well, I didn’t get a shot in a game.’ If you’re 6-10, 6-11, you can get a shot by get­ting an offensive rebound and getting shots. Anybody, whether it’s him or anybody, that thinks a coach has to run plays to get you shots — that’s the sign of a team that’s not going to be a very good team,” Saunders said. 
Later in the day, asked whether the 6-foot-11 Blatche might feel he’s being singled out, Saunders said: “It’s like dealing with your kids. You have to do things. As I tried to explain when I talked to Andray: ‘It’s not against you. It’s against what you did. How you acted. So it’s nothing against you.’ I don’t hold grudges over those type of things.” 
Caron Butler wasn’t at the morning shootaround because of what Saunders called “an accident in his family” but he did play against Detroit. 
“It’s been a little chaotic around here for the most part the last couple days,” said Butler, who spoke to authorities on Monday. “That’s something that you don’t want to have to keep revisiting. As a player, you want to focus on basketball and basketball only.” 
Also missing Tuesday was Arenas, of course. As was Javaris Crittenton, whose Dec. 21 spat with Arenas prompted the three-time All-Star to take guns out of his locker at the team’s arena. 
Crittenton, who has been out all season with an injury, has been excused by the team from practices and games while the legal process plays out. Arenas has acknowledged keeping guns in his locker and taking them out in a “misguided effort to play a joke,” while Crittenton has kept a low profile, reveal­ing no details about the inci­dent and saying through his lawyer that he did nothing wrong. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, January 13, 2010 
MLB 

Heralded prospect Chapman to Reds 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI — Aroldis Chapman knew so little about baseball in the United States that before he could pick a team, he had to look at a map. The left-hander from Cuba had never seen a major league game on television and couldn’t name all the teams. 
He finally settled on one that wears a distinctive “C’’ on its red cap, like the one he left. 
Chapman agreed Monday to a $30.25 million, six-year con­tract with the Cincinnati Reds, who view him as an important addition to their rotation down the road. The small-market club with limited payroll enticed him to Cincinnati, where he took a physical, signed a deal and saw snow for the first time. 
“When you look at the size of the market we are here in Cincinnati, we have to take some bold moves from time to time to try to improve this franchise,” general manager Walt Jocketty said. “We felt this was a very significant move.” 
Very surprising, too. Depending on when he becomes eligible for salary arbitration, Chapman could earn millions of dollars more. 
Agent Randy Hendricks said eight teams were in the run­ning to sign Chapman, who turns 22 next month. It came down to Cincinnati, Oakland and another team whom the agent wouldn’t identify. 
Chapman defected in July at a tournament in the Netherlands, leaving the Cuban national team known as inter­national baseball’s Big Red Machine because of its uni­forms and its domination. He established residency in Andorra so he could choose his team as a free agent and not be subject to baseball’s draft. 
The hard-throwing pitcher didn’t see major league games on television in Cuba, so he was unfamiliar with teams and where they were located. 
“We took him through a Google map that showed every major league club, and we could zoom in on a state and describe the teams,” Hendricks said. 
Chapman gained some noto­riety during the World Baseball Classic in March, when he pitched well against Australia and poorly against Japan. His fastball occasionally topped 100 mph, getting the attention of major league scouts. 
He also attended several workouts for scouts, including one in Houston that got the Reds deeply interested. Once he learned about the Reds, Chapman became interested in them. 
Manager Dusty Baker, pitch­ing coach Bryan Price and catcher Ramon Hernandez speak Spanish, which will be helpful to Chapman, who does­n’t speak English. Also, the Reds have 10 players from Latin America. 
“In terms of the transition, we couldn’t look for a better place for someone who came from Cuba to pitch,” Hendricks said. 
He agreed to a complicated contract that helps the Reds at the outset. He gets $1.5 million of his signing bonus when his contract is approved by Major League Baseball, $1.5 million each Nov. 1 from 2010 to 2013 and $1.25 million each Nov. 1 from 2014 to 2020. 
Chapman gets annual salaries of $1 million this year and next, $2 million each in 2012 and 2013 and $3 million in 2014. Within five days of the 2014 World Series, he must decide whether to exercise a $5 million player option for 2015. 
If Chapman is eligible for salary arbitration after the 2012 season, he would get $5 million converted to a bonus and become eligible for arbi­tration. If he is arbitration eli­gible after the 2013 season, he would get $3 million converted to a bonus and then be eligible for arbitration. 
The Reds are expected to trim their payroll from the $72.7 million ending figure for last year. They drew 1.7 million fans during their ninth straight losing season, their smallest attendance figure since 1986. 
“Financially, it works for us,” Jocketty said. “It does not impact our major league pay­roll this year in a significant way. It’s a deal that will be paid out over time. We’re thrilled.” 
The 6-foot-4 Chapman attended the news conference with Hendricks and a lawyer who functioned as an inter­preter. Asked why he defected, he said, “Because the best baseball players in the world are from the United States. I think any baseball player in the world would want to play in the United States.” 
Jocketty said it’s too soon to tell whether he will be a candi­date for a starting job with the Reds this spring, or whether he’ll need time in the minors to continue working on his deliv­ery. Chapman, who also pitched in relief for Cuba, will be groomed for the rotation. 
“I think that’s where his future is,” Jocketty said. “We see him as potentially a top-of­the-rotation starter at some point.” 
The Reds have Aaron Harang and Bronson Arroyo under contract through next season, with club options on both for 2011. Johnny Cueto, Edinson Volquez and Homer Bailey are just starting their major league careers. Volquez is returning from reconstructive elbow sur­gery that will sideline him for at least the start of the season. 
Chapman was a first base­man primarily until he was 15 or 16, when a school pitching coach suggested he convert to pitching. By the 2005 season, he was 18 and pitching for Holguin in the Cuban national league. 
Chapman’s biggest weakness is his control. Last season for Cuba, he pitched 118 1-3 innings, walked 62 and struck out 130, going 11-4 with a 4.03 earned run average. In 327 2-3 career innings with Holguin, he walked 203 and struck out 365. 
The Reds are going to work on Chapman’s delivery. They sent two scouting representa­tives to his workout in Houston and came away impressed that he seemed to have made some changes already. 
NFL 

Seahawks made offer to Dungy 
Associated Press 
RENTON, Wash. — Seahawks chief executive Tod Leiweke took issue Tuesday with criticism he was less than genuine in interviewing minor­ity candidates before Seattle hired Pete Carroll as its coach. 
Speaking moments after he introduced Carroll as the eighth coach in Seattle’s 34­year history, Leiweke said he offered the Seahawks presi­dent’s job to former Colts and Buccaneers coach Tony Dungy last month. The offer came soon after the Seahawks forced Tim Ruskell to resign as president and general manag­er Dec. 3. 
“That’s not to defend myself with the Rooney Rule. Tony would have made a heck of a president. That was the first call I made,” said Leiweke, who has been doing the inter­views for the team’s coach, GM and president vacancies on behalf of team owner Paul Allen. 
Leiweke said Dungy consid­ered the offer for a night before telling him no thanks. 
The league’s Rooney Rule requires interviews with minority candidates. The rule, which was introduced after the 2002 season and became mandatory a year later, applies to the hiring of head coaches and senior football executives. 
Leiweke said his interview with Vikings defensive coordi­nator Leslie Frazier on Saturday in Minnesota lasted four hours — then they watched the Eagles-Cowboys playoff game together that night. Leiweke cited it as fur­ther proof he adhered to the league’s minority hiring initia­tive. 


“I went to see Leslie and I saw him in good faith,” Leiweke said, firmly. “When I went to Minnesota, I was not sure we would get it done with Pete. There were significant issues.” 
Carroll joined Leiweke in saying reports he had a pre­liminary deal with the Seahawks as early as Friday were wrong. 
Leiweke said the issues included whom the Seahawks were targeting as their new GM, and whom Carroll wanted to bring from USC to his staff in Seattle. Those issues got worked out in a face-to-face meeting in California on Sunday. 
On Saturday, Dungy won­dered about the process used by the Redskins, who inter­viewed assistant Jerry Gray for the head coaching position last month even though Jim Zorn still held the job. 
“That is not what the Rooney Rule is supposed to be, (that) you make up your mind and then interview a candidate for it anyway just to satisfy the rule,” said Dungy, who retired from coaching last year. 
Commissioner Roger Goodell said Saturday that the Seahawks had complied with the Rooney Rule through Leiweke’s interview of Frazier. 
Leiweke said he was “hugely impressed” with Frazier and certain he is going to be an NFL head coach. 


Wednesday, January 13, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles prepare for sixth-ranked Hope 

By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s (8 -3, 3-1 MIAA) looks to continue its momentum from a strong semester break with a home game tonight 
Nearly the whole team has contributed offensively for the Flying Dutch, and the leading scorer only averages 
12.8 points per game, indi­cating that any of the players on the floor can score at any 
time. Hope also averages seven th ree-point 

against confer-“Hope is going to be baskets a game, 
ence rival and so Saint Mary’s 
our toughest game to
sixth -ranked will look to Hope College date.” pressure the (12-1, 4-0). outside shot. 
Hope has To stop the 
Jennifer Henley 
dropped only Hope attack, 
Belles coach
one game all season — an early -season away game in Atlanta — so the Flying Dutch present the Belles’ toughest test so far. 
The team’s break was high­lighted by a second-place fin­ish after Christmas in the Amy Hasbrook Memorial Tournament at DePauw and a road win at Kalamazoo after New Year’s (the win was Belles coach Jennifer Henley’s 50th at the College). Saint Mary’s senior forward Anna Kammrath and sopho­more forward Kelley Murphy were named to the All ­Tournament team. 
Hope will pose a challenge to the Belles’ defense, as the Flying Dutch average nearly 80 points a game. 
“They have a lot of offen­sive weapons,” Henley said. “They have a very deep bench with a lot of experience.” 
Kelly 
continued from page 20 
yards per carry last season. Isaiah Pead and Jacob Ramsey combined to rush for 1,245 yards and 13 touchdowns. 

“He is a tire-“[Notre Dame’s] a Ed Warriner less recruiter name that can get will replace Tom 
and is well Verducci as the 
you in any household
respected in our offensive line professi on, ” in the country..” coach, leaving Kelly said of his post as Hinton. “Tim’s Kansas’ offen-
Kerry Cooks 
expertise in the sive coordinator. 
Irish linebackers coach 
running game and pass protec­tions combined with his experi­ence in my offensive system make him a perfect fit for our running backs.” 
Former running backs coach Tony Alford will be the wide receivers coach this season, Kelly also announced. 
Former Wisconsin defensive backs coach Kerry Cooks will coach the outside linebackers. Cooks said he was excited about the potential that Notre Dame offers. 
the Belles will 
look to 
Kammrath to 
contribute on both ends of the floor, as well as junior Liz Wade, sopho­more Patsy Mahoney, and Murphy. Kammrath, who recently surpassed 700 career rebounds, will espe­cially be needed to limit Hope’s second chances. 
Saint Mary ’s has had a week since its last game, and without classes, has had ample time to prepare for the biggest home game of the season against a perennial Division III power. 
“Hope is going to be our toughest game to date,” Henley said. 
The two teams meet in the fight for MIAA supremacy at 
7:30 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
“Whether they’re 6-6 or 12-0 or 13-0 or whatever, it doesn’t matter,” he said, according to Notre Dame’s athletic Web site. “It’s a name that can get you in any household in the country. It’s a great career and résumé builder, not only for coaches, 
but for players 
as well.” 
Warinner has 
coached for 26 years and in 13 of the last 18 of them have been spent coaching the offensive line. 
“Having coached offensive lines in four different systems, I think there is a lot I can draw from,” he said. “I think I have worked with a variety of play­ers so I’ll be able to adjust to whatever the needs are of each individual.” 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
NBA 

Duncan leads Spurs past Lakers 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO — Tim Duncan had 25 points and 13 rebounds, and the San Antonio Spurs showed they can still hang with their Western Conference rivals in a victory over the Los Angeles Lakers on Tuesday night. 
Tony Parker scored 22 as the Spurs got their biggest victory this season. The Lakers are just the fourth winning team San Antonio has beaten, but none the cal­iber of the defending NBA champions. 
Kobe Bryant had another off game, scoring 16 points. He again wore a thick splint over his broken right index finger. 
The Spurs and Lakers domi­nated the last decade, win­ning seven titles between them. The Lakers whittled a 22-point deficit to six late in the first meeting of this decade, but it was a rout by the end. 
Bryant, who scored just 12 on 4-of-21 shooting in a win over Milwaukee on Sunday, had another slow night. He took a season-low 10 shots from the field, hitting seven of them. 
Bryant has said that keep­ing his finger covered gives it more strength and protection, but he admits it affects his touch. 
Andrew Bynum scored 23 points and Ron Artest had 13 for the Lakers. Los Angeles has lost three of four — its worst slump yet by the stan­dards of the NBA’s best team. 
Few teams, meanwhile, have been hotter over the last month than San Antonio. 
The Spurs are 14-4 since Dec. 9, trailing only Cleveland (15-4) for the best record over that stretch. None of those wins were as satisfying — or as much a relief — as this one. 
The Spurs (23-13) have built their winning record on the backs of weak competi­tion, going 19-2 against teams with losing records. But they’ve wilted consistently 
against  winning  teams,  
including  a  loss  Friday  
against Dallas.  

But the Spurs had been looking forward to this litmus test. They spent lavishly last summer for the unsaid pur­pose of keeping up with the Lakers, and here was a chance to show if they got their money’s worth. 
Instead, their older invest­ments led this win. 
Duncan was 12 of 19 from the field while Parker shot 10 of 18. Parker scored nine points in the fourth quarter. 
Richard Jefferson, added this summer to add more offensive punch, scored 12. George Hill had 13. 
This wasn’t the same Lakers team the Spurs are likely see again later. Besides Bryant’s hurt hand, Pau Gasol has missed the last five games with a strained left ham­string. Lakers coach Phil Jackson said Gasol has his sights on returning Friday against the Clippers 
Notes: 
• F Luke Walton (pinched nerve, back) made his first appearance in nearly eight weeks, scoring four points and grabbing a rebound in six minutes. … With the loss, the Lakers were denied their first crack at becoming the only NBA franchise with 3,000 vic­tories. They’ll try again Wednesday at Dallas. 

Pistons 99, Wizards 90 
Charlie Villanueva and the Detroit Pistons went exactly a month between victories. 
“Oh, man,” Villanueva said. “It felt like forever.” 
His 23 points and nine rebounds helped Detroit end a 13-game losing streak by beating the downtrodden and distracted Washington Wizards Tuesday night. 
To the Pistons, it did not matter one bit that their first win since beating Golden State on Dec. 12 came against the Wizards, a club whose best player, three-time All-Star Gilbert Arenas, was sus­pended indefinitely by the NBA amid a guns investiga­tion. 
And a club whose coach, Flip Saunders, and several players have had to speak to authorities in recent days about that case. A club miss­ing forward Andray Blatche, suspended for Tuesday’s game for what Saunders indi­cated was complaining about getting enough plays drawn up for him. 
“Somebody had to win tonight — and we just wanted it to be us,” said Richard Hamilton, who scored 19 points for Detroit. “We knew when we came in tonight, we could only worry about us.” 
Rodney Stuckey also scored 19 and added a career high-tying 11 assists for Detroit, which lost by 33 points at Chicago on Monday night. A defeat against Washington would have tied the longest single-season losing streak in franchise history. 
Antawn Jamison led the Wizards with 31 points and 10 rebounds, while Randy Foye — who took over at point guard for Arenas — had 20 points and 10 assists. But Washington shot only 4 for 21 and scored a season-worst 11 points in the second quarter. 
“We talked about it. We did-n’t want to be the team they beat,” said Washington’s Nick Young, 2 for 9 for the game with eight points, starting at shooting guard for the injured Mike Miller. “But both teams were short-handed, and both teams had something to prove tonight.” 
An announced crowd of only 13,544 showed up to watch these struggling teams. The Pistons are now 12-25, and Washington is 12-24; in the Eastern Conference, only the NBA-worst New Jersey Nets have fewer victories. 
Detroit can chalk up its dif­ficulties, in part anyway, to injuries: Key players Hamilton, Tayshaun Prince and Ben Gordon have all missed time. 
While Hamilton is back in the lineup, Prince and Gordon were out Tuesday. 
The Wizards? Well, yes, they were without Miller because his bothersome right calf flared up again, but injuries are the least of their worries, what with everything else going on. 
Nearly all traces of Arenas have been purged from Washington’s arena, including a banner that used to hang outside. Three players missed Tuesday morning’s shootaround because they were being questioned in the Arenas gun investigation. 
Javaris Crittenton, a team­mate involved in the spat that led to Arenas’ taking his guns out of his locker, has been excused from attending prac­tices or games until there is a resolution to the legal issues. 
“It’s been a little chaotic around here for the most part the last couple days,” said Caron Butler, who had only 10 points and two rebounds against Detroit. “That’s some­thing that you don’t want to have to keep revisiting. As a player, you want to focus on basketball and basketball only.” 
Notes: 
uThe Pistons lost 14 games in a row in the 1979-80 and 1993-94 seasons. … Saunders on disciplining Blatche: “You hope that they understand why. It’s like dealing with your kids. You have to do things. As I tried to explain when I talked to Andray: ‘It’s not against you. It’s against what you did. How you acted. So it’s nothing against you.’ I don’t hold grudges over those type of things.” … Miller was out for about six weeks before returning to action Friday, then playing again Sunday, when he aggravated his calf. 


page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, January 13, 2010 
Upset 
continued from page 20 
“We knew that coming in tonight, we knew that we needed this win. Sitting at 3-1 in the Big East with a week off before Cincinnati is not a bad place to be right now.” 
Notre Dame dominated the first half against West Virginia, taking a 20 point lead into halftime. After a furious rally by the Mountaineers, the Irish held on for the victory as for­ward Da’Sean Butler’s shot at the buzzer barely missed. 
The Irish started the break with a big 84-73 win over his­torical power­house UCLA at Purcell Pavilion 


“Sitting at 3-1 in the
on Dec. 19. the Irish held While the Big East with a week on despite a Bruins have strong rally 
off before Cincinnati is 
struggled this from the Bulls. 
not a bad place to be
season, Irish Following the coach Mike right now.” wins over USF Brey was and West pleased with Virginia,
Luke Harangody 
the nationally Harangody was 
Irish senior
televised win. 
“We did some fearless stuff and some mature stuff and we figured out a way to win,” Brey said. “I was interested to see what this place would be like with the first big-game atmos­phere. It was awesome.” 
The Irish received an early Christmas present in the form of a 101-69 rout of Bucknell on Dec. 22. Harangody’s double-double of 20 points and 11 rebounds led the way for Notre Dame. 
The Irish then kicked off Big East play on Dec. 30, closing out the year with a 93-78 home victory over Providence, 
Schrader 
continued from page 20 
7:42 left in the game. However, the Irish outscored the Bulls 19­5 in the last eight minutes to widen the margin. 
“Me and [senior guard Melissa Lechlitner] just looked at each led by 23 points from senior guard Jonathan Peoples. The win was Brey’s 200th as head coach at Notre Dame. 
Brey and the Irish faced a huge test to begin 2010, facing No. 10 Connecticut on the road on Jan. 2. While Notre Dame suffered its first conference loss of the season, the Irish kept the game close until the Huskies pulled away in the closing minutes. Harangody led all scorers with 31 points and the game featured 17 lead changes. 
Notre Dame rebounded to capture its first conference road win a few days later, edg­ing South Florida 74-73. Harangody tallied 36 points including the game-winning free throw as 
named the Big East Player of the Week and the Oscar Robertson National Player of the Week. The senior captain averaged 30 points and 
5.5 rebounds in the two games. 
After the huge win over the Mountaineers, the Irish will continue the gauntlet of the Big East schedule Saturday with another road test at Cincinnati. After facing the Bearcats, Notre Dame will return home for a difficult game against No. 5 Syracuse on Monday. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
points, tying a season high. Novosel had five of her points in the final seven minutes as the Irish built their lead. 
“We’re on our home court,” freshman guard Skylar Diggins said. “We didn’t want it to be that close.” 
Notre Dame will play No. 1 
Connecticut in a nationally tele­vised game Saturday, and the attention 


other then put the team 
“I didn’t want to mention 
[and] we just in danger of told each the word [Connecticut]. overlooking other, ‘we’re But if you’re listening to the Bulls. fine, we’re “I thought 
anything ... you’re going 
going to be that was going
to hear about it.” 
ok,’” Schrader to be a diffi­said about the cult game with close contest. Muffet McGraw the “We knew that Connecticut 
Irish coach 
we were going to win the game. I think it’s just experience, the way we present ourselves, the way we carry ourselves at the end of the game.” 
The Bulls were first to score, but the Irish then scored eight straight to lead 8-2 early in the game. However, South Florida kept it close and went into half­time down six points, 37-31. 
Forward Sequoyah Griffin led the Bulls with 16 points and five assists. In the first half, the Bulls shot 50 percent from the floor, but they shot just 41.4 percent in the second half. 
“I’d like to give them some credit but I also think we could have played better defensively,” McGraw said. “They were open when they made a lot of their shots and that’s because our defense was getting screened.” 
Senior guard and captain Ashley Barlow scored nine points and had 11 rebounds in the game, and sophomore Natalie Novosel scored 12 game kind of 
looming in the 
background,” McGraw said. “… I didn’t want to mention the word. But if you’re listening to anything, if you turn on ESPN you’re going to hear about it. If you walk through the building you’re going to hear about it.” 
The game will tip-off Saturday at 9 p.m. in Storrs, Conn. 
Note: 
• Sophomore forward Erica Solomon has decided to forego the rest of the season in order to focus on academics. 
“Looking at our post depth, she really didn’t want to let the team down,” McGraw said. “She really wanted to red shirt the whole year, but we needed her and she wanted to be there for us. Now she can really con­centrate on what she needs to do.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Maday 
continued from page 20 
the back of the net again as Notre Dame battled No. 6 North Dakota to a 3-3 tie after regulation and an overtime period. Notre Dame won the shootout, and the Tournament, on goals from senior Dan Kissel and junior Ben Ryan. 
“I think it was a big game for our team’s confidence,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “I thought our team played very well and showed we can compete with anybody.” 
Notre Dame fought back from a 3-1 second-period deficit behind goals from sen­ior Kevin Deeth late in the sec­ond period and Maday early in the third. Ryan scored the first goal of the game less than four minutes after the puck dropped in the first period. 
“[Coming back] showed character,” Maday said. “As a team, over the course of a long season you are going to have ups and downs, and when you have your downs you need to see how your team responds. It was a real positive the way we hung in there and played against a top team in the country.” 
All the confidence Notre Dame gained by beating a top­10 team at a neutral site went out the window after losing two games by a combined score of 9-4 against No. 11/12 Ferris State. The Bulldogs scored more goals than any team has against Notre Dame this season in a 5-2 rout Saturday. Freshman goalie Mike Johnson made 26 saves, and the Irish offense only managed three shots in the third period. 
“Ferris State is a good team, and they played well, like a team on a mission,” Jackson said. “I think they had an advantage as far as depth went, and … we didn’t do a good job of managing the puck.” 
Senior walk-on Tommy O’Brien started in goal for Notre Dame Sunday and the Ferris State offensive onslaught continued in the 4-2 defeat. 
“Tommy started to [give Johnson a break],” Jackson said. “Plus Tommy has been practicing well so I thought he deserved another opportunity. Mike wasn’t coming off a great game so I thought it was time to see what Tommy could do.” 
O’Brien gave up two third-period goals in the loss, and Jackson said Johnson will remain Notre Dame’s top goalie. 
Late in the third period Ferris State’s Travis Oullette checked junior defensemen Teddy Ruth from behind, and senior Brett Blatchford came to Ruth’s defense by grabbing Oullette. The scrum resulted in 62 minutes of penalties. 
“I always tell the team to have each other’s backs,” Jackson said. “When some­body cheap shots a teammate, that is just one of the golden rules of hockey, to step up for a teammate.” 
Notre Dame will try to get back into the CCHA race Friday night against Michigan State. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  
 
 
 
 18  19  
20  21  
22  23  
 24  25  
 
 26  27  
28  29  30  31  32  
33  34  35  36  37  
38  39  40  41  
42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  49  50  51  52  
53  
 54  
 
 
 55  56  
57  58  59  60  
61  62  63  64  
 
 
 
 
 
65  66  67  
68  69  70  

Wednesday, January 13, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 

Across 38Shake-up in the 1Pilots global balance ofpower…anda
6 Biographical info 
hint to the 
9 Lab wear 
circled letters 14“Farewell, 
42New Jersey's 
François!” 
Fort___15Marked, ona 
43Author 
ballot 
Silverstein 16Oscar-winning 
44Originally 
Marisa 
45Digging 
17Gladiolus 
47Jai ___
19Ain't how it 
should be? 49Health menace,briefly
20Spic and Spancompetitor 53Need a nap 21Asia's ___Sea 56Actress Peeples 22Rome-to-57Copier unit Belgrade dir. 58Doing better at 23They're usually the casino, say aimed at heads 61Kind of patch 28Areas between 
63It's done outside 
hills 
alab
31Like Death 
Valley 65Idolize 
32Ancient Greek 66School portico department33Captured 67Renaissance 35Furthermore faire sight 37Beer may be on 68“The Bells of St. it ___” 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

L E S  M A R V  A N  I  T A  
A R T  L O U  I  E  D E N  I  S  
I D A  O R S O N  W A N D A  
R E G I  N A  S A R A  I  A N  
N E L L  A R  I  E L  
S T A N L E Y  A L E C  
C O R E Y  C A R L  E R M A  
O M A R  P E R R Y  C H E T  
P E T E  L U K E  I  R E N E  
A D A M  A N N E T T E  
K A R E N  R O S A  
A N N  M E R L  T A M A R A  
R E N E E  A A R O N  R O D  
C L A R A  I  L E N E  A L  I  
A L L E N  N A T E  B E N  

69“You got it!”70Gripped ona bench 
Down 
1 Latched, in a way 
2 Currie who wrote “AParliamentaryAffair” 
3 Train companyfounded in 1900 4 Piddling 5 Some cold ones 6 Armpit7 Solidify 
8 Joseph ___, wholent his name to some ice cream 
9 M.V.P. of the first two Super Bowls 10Some eels 
11Dish that may beprepared in aspecial pan 
121900-99, e.g.:Abbr. 13Do-it-yourselfer'spurchase 18It's a long shot,usually 21Builds an extension 24Unwritten rules 25Wacky 26Jet engine'soutput27Spring run 29“How disgusting!” 30Scatters seeds 34Something a doctor should do 36Tram loads 38Roger Maris, forthe Yankees 

WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

Puzzle by Peter A. Collins  
39Like some paint 40Move, to a real-estate broker  50Negativelychargedparticles  59Year the Vandals sacked Rome 60River in a 1957  
41The Pistons, ona scoreboard  51Buchanan's predecessor  film 61Impact sound  
42“What's the ___?” 46Famed Chicagolivestock owner  52Listened,poetically 54Challenges  62Vitamin no. 63Former baseball commissioner Vincent  
48Keys  55Actor Brynner  64Tick off  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&Tusers: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 
Wednesday, January 13, 2010 page 20 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Simply business 
ND gets past USF before major road test 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
The Irish weren’t about to get caught looking ahead. Lindsay Schrader made sure of it. 
The senior captain scored 18 points and grabbed 13 rebounds for her third double-double of the season and led No. 3 Notre Dame (15-0, 2-0 Big East) to an 81-64 win over South Florida (9-7, 0-3) Tuesday night. 
“I thought overall our veter­an team at the end of the game found a way to win,” Irish coach Muffett McGraw said. “I thought we kept our poise down the stretch and did some great things.” 

The game was much closer than the final score would indi­cate. The teams swapped leads five times throughout the con­test, and Notre Dame was ahead by just three points with PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Senior guard Lindsay Schrader scores against Indianapolis during Notre Dame’s 97-53 exhibition vic­seeSCHRADER/page 18 tory on Nov. 3. Schrader had a double-double against South Florida last night in an 81-64 victory. 

HOCKEY 
Irish up and down over break 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Semester break brought Notre Dame both a Shillelagh Tournament title as well as a fall to seventh-place in confer­ence standings. 
The Irish (9-10-5, 5-7-4-2 CCHA) beat Colgate 5-2 on Jan. 2 to reach the title game of the Tournament at the Sears Centre Arena in Hoffman Estates, Ill. The five goals set a new high for Notre Dame this season. Sophomore Billy Maday led the Irish with two goals. 
“Five goals on the scoreboard was a product of the team’s enthusiasm to be back playing some high-caliber hockey,” Maday said. “It started our drive and the push we want to make for the second half of the season.” 
The next night Maday found 
seeMADAY/page 18 


FOOTBALL 

Kelly fills out coaching staff with Cincinnati transplants 
Bob Diaco as the new defensive has played for and learned and created powerful offenses an offense.” 
By BILL BRINK 

coordinator, Charley Molnar as under some fine defensive in both places. Bearcats receiv-Molnar must develop quarter-
Sports Writer 

the offensive coordinator and coaches and will be a great er Mardy Gilyard caught 87 back Dayne Crist, who saw Tim Hinton as the running teacher for our guys.” balls for 1,191 yards and 11 some playing time behind an Brian Kelly began to fill out backs coach. Diaco played linebacker at touchdowns with Molnar as his injured Jimmy Clausen but will the Notre Dame assistant Diaco had to replace 10 Iowa and was a two-time all-receivers coach in 2009. miss spring practice because he coaching staff over the winter starters on Cincinnati’s defense conference selection. He was a “Charley and I have coached tore his anterior cruciate liga­break, hiring five coaches and in 2009 but brought the unit finalist for the Butkus Award in together the last four years and ment (ACL) against Washington retaining one from the previous into the nation’s top 10 in sacks 1995. He will be responsible for I have complete confidence in State. He won’t have the servic­administration. and tackles for loss. revamping a defense that him to lead the offensive staff es of Golden Tate, who left for 
Kelly, whom Notre Dame “Bob implemented an entirely showed flashes of promise but and players,” Kelly said. “I have the NFL Draft, but Michael named its new head coach in new defense and was a major struggled to slow opposing seen how he has developed Floyd will be at his disposal. December, hired three coaches factor in us winning every game offenses. both quarterbacks and wide Hinton’s backs rushed for 6.4 away from Cincinnati, where he during the regular season,” Molnar worked with Kelly at receivers and tailored a passing previously coached. Kelly hired Kelly said in a statement. “He Cincinnati and Central Michigan attack around the strengths of seeKELLY/page 17 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Upset highlights fve wins 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Associate Sports Writer 
With a few weeks to focus solely on basketball, the Irish are heating up at the right time. Notre Dame went 5-1 over the semester break, including a 3-1 start to the Big East season, and capped off the stretch with a 70-68 upset of then-No. 8 West Virginia. 
To no one’s surprise, the Irish were anchored by senior forward Luke Harangody, who scored 24 points at home in the win over the Mountaineers on Jan. 9. 
“It’s a huge win for us. In conference play you need to protect your home floor,” Harangody said after the win. 
seeUPSET/page 18 


FOOTBALL 
Floyd receives citation for underage drinking 
Observer Staff Report 
Irish sophomore receiver Michael Floyd received a citation for underage drink­ing after his involvement in a fight in Minneapolis on Jan. 8, according to police reports and the Chicago Tribune. 
The Tribune reported that Floyd was involved in a “physical altercation” out­side of a party. University 
of Minnesota police said Floyd admitted to doing “a couple of shots” earlier in the night and had blood on his hands, feet and shirt. 
The police were respond­ing to a report of about 10 people involved in a “physi­cal dispute in the street.” 
Floyd was cited for underage consumption of liquor, a misdemeanor, the Tribune reported, and 
c o u l d  f a c e  a  f i n e ,  c o u r t  
appearance  or  a  diversion  
program.  

Floyd missed five com ­plete games last season after suffering a broken collarbone against Michigan State, but he still recorded 44 receptions for 795 yards and nine touch­downs in seven games last season. 
Notre Dame officials, including newly-hired Irish coach Brian Kelly, have yet to comment on the situa­tion. 





