the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


OIS to offer program in Senegal 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students studying French will have a new study abroad option when the University offers a program in Africa in the spring of 2012. 
Dakar, the capital city of the West African nation of Senegal, will be added to the list of study abroad locations for next year’s applicants. 
The Office of International Studies (OIS) and the French Department worked to find a country outside of Europe with a francophone, or French-speak­ing, population. Senegal seemed to be a natural choice, not only linguistically, but also because of its rich history, Kathleen Opel, director of OIS, said. 
She said the combination of slave history and French lan­guage in the country provides for a unique and rewarding study abroad experience. 
“Students can improve their French and get an African per­spective while living in a safe and vibrant city,” Opel said. “They can learn about the tran­sition from colonization to a democracy.” 
Opel said Dakar also possess­es cultural depth that pairs well with francophone and Africana studies. 
“I think this program could 
see SENEGAL/page 5 



ND ranks among top 20 
University moves to No. 19 on U.S. News & World Report list 

By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame moved up one spot in U.S. News & World Report’s recent list of best universities, passing Emory University to claim No. 19. 
Rice University and Vanderbilt University were just ahead of Notre Dame at No. 17, and Harvard University reclaimed the top spot in the rankings. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said while the ranking serves a purpose, the University is publicly skepti­cal about its evaluation sys­tem. 
“While we recognize that the U.S. News & World Report survey serves a useful function for some prospective students and their parents, we are on record for more than 15 years as having reservations about its methodology,” Brown said in a statement. “That said, we believe that by any measure Notre Dame is among the nation’s top 25 undergradu­ate institutions.” 
The U.S. News & World Report website said a college education is one of the most important and costly invest­ments that prospective stu­dents will make. 
“For this reason, the edi­tors of U.S. News believe that students and their families should have as much infor­mation as possible about the comparative merits of the educational programs at America’s colleges and uni­versities,” the website stated. 

Each school is ranked in 16 areas of academic excellence, the website said. These scores are combined into a “composite weighted score,” which is used to determine rankings. 
“Regardless of rankings, we also are confident that Notre Dame is second to none in providing an extraordinary undergraduate experience, engaging in research that improves the human condi­tion and serving the Church and society,” Brown said. 
U.S. News & World Report also recently released a list of the top 10 universities where applying early can increase a 
see RANKING/page 5 




Gradswork to make difference 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
When Dr. Daniel Towle was a pre-med student at Notre Dame in the late 1970s, a professor encouraged him to be “more than just a doctor” — advice that changed Towle’s approach to his professional life. 
Now, Towle travels to develop­ing countries to provide medical services to people who otherwise might not have access to basic healthcare. 
Towle and other alumni shared how they have worked toward the greater good in their various professions at a panel Wednesday entitled “The Professions and the Common Good.” 
The panel was one in a series of events for the Notre Dame Forum, which addresses how the global marketplace can be used to further the common good. 
Towle, a pediatric anesthesiol­ogist involved in international health services, said he and other alumni wished to inspire students to “walk your own road to make a difference in the world.” 
“I firmly believe divine provi­dence will provide you with skills and opportunities that will allow you to live out Notre Dame’s mission,” he said. 
see FORUM/page 6 



Panel discusses eating disorders, body image 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Eating disorders and body image issues are a major part of the competition and perfec­tionism present among Notre Dame students, panelists said Wednesday evening. 
The Gender Relations Center (GRC) held a panel discussion, “Perfectly Disordered: Eating Disorders, Body Image and College Life,” Wednesday night as a part of Body Image and Eating Disorders Awareness Week. 
The event featured a student panel of GRC peer educators who discussed the pressures facing different groups at Notre Dame. 
Junior Victoria Hadlock talked about major pressures facing all students and possi­ble ways to alleviate those pressures. 
“There is certainly a sense of needing to be perfect or needing to be the smartest,” she said. 
Hadlock said she found a happier balance and moved away from her “type A” per­sonality by getting involved in something she was passionate about. 
“Find a group of friends or a niche where you can really be yourself and feel comfort ­able,” she said. “Appreciate 
see PANEL/page 5 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC crime report page 3  Weekend event calendar page 11  Men’s soccer tops Hoosiers page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Thursday, October 7, 2010 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Sarah Mervosh Megan Finneran Kristen Durbin Molly Sammon Sara Felsenstein Megan Golden 

Graphics Scene 
Lisa Hoeynck Alex Kilpatrick 
Photo Viewpoint 
Tom La Ren Brauweiler 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHY ARE THERE I TERSTATE HIGHWAYS IN HAWAII? 




Kathleen Bracke 
sophomore 
Pangborn 
“Since ‘Lost’ was filmed in Hawaii, the wheel that is used to move the island is completely applicable to help one travel from the island to another state.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 


Amanda Jonovski 
junior Pasquerilla East 
“So they can receive federal funding … duh.” 
Annette Esquibel 
senior 
Ryan 
“Because they wish they were actually part of the rest of the States.” 
Patrizia Martellaro 
sophomore 
Cavanaugh 
“Because of the flying cars, of course.” 
Tom Temmerman 
sophomore Siegfried 
“Hold on, let me text my friend who is from Hawaii …” 


SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Sophomore Katie Pryor gets her flu shot Wednesday at Stepan Center as part of the free flu clinic being held this week. Flu shots will be available tomorrow at Stepan from 1 to 9 p.m. 
OFFBEAT 
Miss. judge jails attorney for not reciting pledge 
TUPELO, Miss. —A Mississippi judge ordered an attorney to spend sev­eral hours in jail Wednesday after the attorney chose not to recite the Pledge of Allegiance in court. The Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal reported that Chancery Judge Talmadge Littlejohn told a court audience to rise and say the pledge. People in the courtroom said Danny Lampley of Oxford stood but did not say the words. Records show Lampley was booked into the Lee County jail at 9:40 a.m. and released about 2:30 p.m. on the judge’s orders. Lampley did not immedi­ately return a call to The Associated Press. Littlejohn was not imme­diately available through his office in New Albany or the court administra­tor’s office in Tupelo. 

Money topples from armored car into Ind. traffic 
INDIANAPOLIS — Money doesn’t grow on trees, but it seemed to fall from the sky in Indianapolis. Police said three bundles of money fell off the back of an armored car Wednesday near an intersection in the heart of downtown Indianapolis. A car hit one of the bundles and sent bills blowing into the breeze. 
Witnesses told The Indianapolis Star about 10 people stormed through traffic into the intersection to fill their arms with cash. 
Two others stopped to help collect the money and guard it until police and the armored car company arrived. 
It’s not immediately known how much money went missing, but WTHR­TV said most of the blown cash was recov­ered. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight friday saturday 



IN BRIEF 
Free flu shots will be given out today at the Stepan Center from 1 p.m. to 9 p.m. The shots are available for all stu­dents, faculty, staff, retirees and spouses of retirees. 
The Department of Film, Television, and Theater pres­ents “The Bible: The Complete Word of God (abridged). The play will be performed today at 7:30 p.m. in the Philbin Studio Theatre. This production puts the fun back in fundamental­ism with a madcap trip through old time religion. Tickets are $10 for all stu­dents and can be purched online or by calling the Ticket Office. 
This Friday , the Even Fridays activity will be a Pumpkin Patch Visit. Even Fridays is a program designed to meet the recre­ational needs of faculty, staff, graduate students, and their families These events are held on the 2nd and 4th Friday of every month.The pumpkin patch visit will begin at 5:30 p.m. and is open to all students, faculty, and staff. Register before the event through RecRegister on the RecSports website. 
Mike Cahill, President and CEO of Tower Financial, will present a lecture, An Ethical Odyssey from Notre Dame to CEO, this Monday at 7 p.m. at the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. The Berges Lecture Series features senior executives speaking on their experiences of the ethical dimensions of business. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


Sunday Monday 


Thursday, October 7, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




SMC security officials 

ND’s Ph.D. ranks improve 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
The National Research Council (NRC) recently ranked doctorate programs throughout the nation and evaluated Notre Dame’s pro­grams more positively than it had in the past. 
Notre Dame’s doctorate pro­grams were ranked higher than in NRC’s last evaluation in 1995, said Gregory Sterling, dean of the Graduate School. 
“If you ask me, are we where we would ultimately like to be? No,” Sterling said. “But we’re bet­ter than we were. There are some great stories to be told.” 
The NRC ranking addressed 5,000 programs at 212 universi­ties. The data was based on the 2005-06 academic year, Sterling said. 
“It is the most extensive effort to collect data on 


doctorate pro­grams to date,” Sterling said.  “I would say on the whole we should feel  ing we had 11 programs in the upper quartile  
The methodol­ogy behind the rankings is com­plex because  good about the results but understand that we  for the R-rank and nine for the S-rank. If you use the lower rank- 
each program was not simply numbered in  still have a challenge in front of us.”  ing, we had three for the R-rank and four for the  
rank.  Rather,  S-rank.”  
two ranking sys- Gregory Sterling  The humanities  
tems were used  dean  did  especially  
— the R-system, or regression- Graduate School  well, Sterling said. English, his- 
based ranking,  tory, philosophy  

and the S-system, or survey-and theology were ranked in the based ranking. upper quartile for both R and S. 
The R-system polled faculty on In the science department, their opinions of doctorate pro-mathematics and biology were grams and measured how well also both ranked in the upper the programs performed against quartile for R and S, said Sterling. a set of 21 variables. This ranking Chemical engineering was in is closely related to the reputation the upper quartile for R and the of a program, Sterling said. second quartile for S. Civil engi-
The S-system asked faculty to neering was in the upper quartile rank the 21 variables based on their importance. NRC then gave a weight to each variable and compared its importance to how the program actually performed on the variable, he said. 
For both the S-system and the R-system, doctorate programs were ranked, not in a numeric order, but on a continuum based on the highest rank a program received and the lowest rank it received. 
“Since the NRC refused to give an absolute ranking, the real value is in the data they provid­ed,” Sterling said. “It allows us for the first time to compare our pro­grams to other programs using specific data.” 
Compared to the 1995 ranking, Sterling said Notre Dame did extremely well. 
“In 1995, we only had two pro­grams in the upper quartile,” Sterling said. “This time, using 
the highest rank-



release crime statistics 
for both R and S, Sterling said. 
Sterling said the study is already being used by phd.org, a website that many prospective doctorate students will use to help them determine where to attend. 
“I think, on the whole, the num­bers will help us,” said Sterling. “Although we do have some pro­grams where I think that the way things were set up will not reflect some of our strengths.” 
One such department is the social sciences. Notre Dame fac­ulty in political science and sociol­ogy publish books much more extensively than their peers, Sterling said. 
But in NRC’s evaluation, only articles were counted when determining how many faculty publications a program had, and the programs’ ratings suffered as a result, he said. 
Another factor is that the pro­gram measured data from 2005­06 and some programs have advanced markedly over the last few years. For example, the psy­chology department has hired a significant number of new faculty, Sterling said. 
Nevertheless, he said the evalu­ation report is valuable. 
“It is the most data-driven assessment of Ph.D. programs ever completed,” Sterling said. “It will be challenged, but it will prove useful in terms of providing comparative information.” 
Sterling said the University should be happy with how its doctorate programs were ranked, but not satisfied. 
“I would say on the whole we should feel good about the results,” he said, “but understand that we still have a challenge in front of us.” 
Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Crime at Saint Mary’s College continued to stay low last year, according to an annual report released by the College’s secu­rity department Tuesday. 
“Crime statistics have remained consistently low on our campus over the years, with only slight fluctuations up and down in various cate­gories,” David Gariepy, director of security, said. “When you have consistently low statistics, any fluctuation up or down may, by percentage, look signif­icant. 
“The reality is that crime at Saint Mary’s College is very low.” 
The 2009 crime and fire sta­tistical report included inci­dents of sexual assault, burgla­ries, alcohol and drug viola­tions and fire. 
There were three incidents of sexual assault during 2009. Two of the dents occurred on campus, but did not take place within the dormitories. There was only one alcohol related arrest located on public property in 2009. 
There was also one drug vio­lation, which led to a referral within the residence halls. 
The College’s security depart­ment helps to prevent crime by patrolling campus 24 hours per day. It also provides safe trans­portation for students and monitors the security and fire systems regularly, Gariepy said. 
He also said the College attempts to improve safety on campus each year. 
This academic year, the Belles Against Violence Office was created to enhance cam­pus security. Swipe card access was added to Angela Athletic Facility and security cameras were added to the Angela park­ing lot. 
Upgrades were also made to the fire system, he said. 
In 2009, there 
were not any 
incidents of the 
assaults  took  “Our best protection  following: illegal  
place within the  from harm is a  weapons viola- 
residence halls on campus, while the third  mental alertness and preparedness.”  tions, drug arrests, motor vehicle theft,  
took  place  on  a g g r a v a t e d  
public property, according to the report. Of these sexu- David Gariepy director College security  assault, robbery, criminal homi­cide and non-forcible sex  
al assaults, one  department  offenses.  

was forcible rape, and the others were classified as forcible fondling. 
This marks a slight increase from previous years. The report stated that one sexual assault incident, which took place within a residence hall and was classified as forcible fondling, occurred in 2008. There were no sexual assaults in 2007. 
The report also stated that there were nine burglaries on campus, five of which took place within the resident halls, in 2009. 
There was one burglary in a non-campus building in 2008. There were four burglaries on campus, two of which were in residence halls, in 2007. 
Gariepy said students could help prevent crime by paying attention to their surroundings. He also encouraged students to make “safe choices in all activi­ties,” which entails locking doors and vehicles, reporting suspicious or criminal activity and watching out for friends. 
The report also indicated 35 alcohol violations that led to referrals within the residence halls. An additional six inci­“I believe 
Saint Mary’s College has historically been a safe campus, but I also know that bad things can and do happen in the safest of places,” Gariepy said. “It is important for us all to understand that dangerous incidents, both nat­ural and manmade, can hap­pen at any time.” 
Gariepy encouraged students to be familiar with the College’s “All Hazards” plan and to have a personal plan for survival if an emergency situation should arise. 
“Our best protection from harm is a mental alertness and preparedness,” he said. 
According to the fire statisti­cal report, there was only one instance of fire in 2009. The fire took place in Holy Cross Hall on Dec. 4 and was classi­fied as arson. 
To view the crime report visit http://www3.saintmarys.edu/ca mpus-safety/crime-statistics. To view the fire report visit http://www3.saintmarys.edu/ca mpus-safety/fire-equipment­fire-drill-matrix. 


Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 7, 2010 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 


Students discuss local restaurant discounts 
By KELLY MURPHY 
News Writer 
During its meeting Wednesday, the College’s Student Government Association (SGA) discussed a program that would give Saint Mary’s, Notre Dame and Holy Cross students dis­counts at local restaurants. 
Student body president Rachael Chelsey said letters were sent out to local business­es, such as Chipotle, and she said hopefully many will start to respond. 
Members of SGA brainstormed ideas for how to advertise and publicize the discount programs. Some ideas include hanging signs around campus, putting fliers into every Saint Mary’s student’s mailbox, creating a fan page on Facebook, installing table tents in Noble Dining Hall and putting the information on Saint Mary’s website. 
“The ultimate plan for this is for it to begin after fall break. However, it is a matter of when we get responses from the restaurants and businesses,” Chesley said. “It might start off as a smaller program, but it is important to look at how we can leave our mark.” 
The discounts offered from each business will be left up to the individual business’ discre­tion, she said. 
SGA also discussed the Pack Saint Mary’s With You program, which will take place over fall break, said admissions commis­sioner Liz Busam. 
This program encourages Saint Mary’s students to go back to their high schools and talk positively about their experience at the College. There will be stu­dents sitting outside the Noble Dining Hall atrium with sign-up sheets. 
“This is a great way to gener­ate that energy and pride we have for Saint Mary’s,” Busam said. 
If students participate in the program, their names will be entered into a drawing to win a $50 gift card to the new book­store, she said. 
If successful, the program 
could  continue  over  the  
Thanksgiving  or  Christmas  
break.  

Contact Kelly Murphy at kmurph04@saintmarys.edu 
STUDENT SENATE 



Members pledge for peace 

By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 

Student Senate pledged official support for peace efforts in the face of possible civil war between the northern and southern parts of Sudan at its meeting Wednesday. 
The northern and southern parts of Sudan have been in con­flict for more than 50 years. In 2005, the Comprehensive Peace Agreement formally ended civil war and scheduled a referendum for Jan. 9, 2011. The citizens of Southern Sudan will then vote for or against secession from the country. 
Social concerns chair Patrick McCormick presented a resolu­tion to Senate to officially support all sustainable efforts for Sudanese peace. The resolution passed unanimously. 
“We are trying to encourage students to act on this,” McCormick said. “We hope that we can put pressure on those who have the opportunity to shape policy in the United States so they pay attention to the Sudan.” 
The purpose of the resolution was to officially engage the sup­port of the Notre Dame student body to work with this issue, he said. 
“We need to continue spotlight­ing the issue,” McCormick said. “We need to recognize that this is not just another conflict, but one that could define our generation.” 
The resolution comes after a delegation from the Sudan Catholic Bishops’ Conference vis­ited the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies Tuesday. They presented on the urgency of the crisis in their home country. 
After their visit to Notre Dame, the delegation will proceed to Washington, D.C., and New York City to meet with government officials and the United Nations. 

McCormick said University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh envisioned Notre Dame as both a crossroads and a light­house. 
“The fact that a conference of Catholic bishops from Sudan would come to Notre Dame is indicative of that crossroads,” McCormick said. “And right now we have an opportunity to be the lighthouse.” 
More information is available at http://peaceinsudan.crs.org or through the Center for Social Concerns. 

Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


Thursday, October 7, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 


Ranking 
continued from page 1 
prospective student’s chance of acceptance. Notre Dame was listed fifth, behind Cornell University. 
“This may cause some to think that it’s easier to get admitted by applying early,” Brown said. “The reality is that we do have a higher acceptance rate for early action applicants, although that alone does not tell the whole story.” 
In Fall 2009, there was a 42 percent acceptance rate dur­ing early action, while the regular action applicant pool had a 23 percent acceptance rate, a U.S. News & World Report press release stated. 

Brown said this discrepancy occurred because of a differ­ence in the quality of the applicant pools. 
“The academic quality of the early-action admitted stu­dents is considerably stronger. That’s why we encourage stu­dents to apply early if, and we emphasize if, they have a superior academic record,” Brown said. “Otherwise, it’s best to get the best possible test scores and grades into your file before applying in the regular action cycle at the end of December.” 
Also published is a list of national universities as ranked by high school coun­selors from high school’s on 
U.S. News & World Report’s “America’s Best High Schools” list. Notre Dame was ranked No. 13 by this group of coun­selors, tied with five other schools. 
Notre Dame also sits among the top five schools with the highest four-year graduation rates, according to U.S. News & World Report. 

Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 




Senegal 
continued from page 1 
appeal to students who are interested in development and the arts,” she said. “There is a rich cultural tradition in Senegal, including dance and mask-making.” 
Opel also said the strong pres­ence of Islam in the region would have an impact on stu­course 
“We see this as a 
and one in Wolof, niche program. It is the local lan­
going to be relatively guage,” she said. “There is also a
small with students 
core course 
who speak French called and want an African Senegalese Culture and 
perspective.” 
History.” 
Opel said trav-
Kathleen Opel el will also play 
director an integral role 
in the Dakar pro-
Offce of International 
gram, especially 
Studies 


Panel 
continued from page 1 
friendships because they are what get us through the con­stant pressures knocking on our door everyday.” 
Sophomore Elliott Pearce focused on the body image issues that face many male students. 
“Many people think eating disorders and body image issues only pertain to women,” he said. “They don’t realize that guys have a lot of pres­sures too.” 
Students who study in Dakar will stay with a host family and take classes at a university with a mix of African and North American students. 
Students are required to take at least two semesters of French prior to studying in Dakar, and once in Senegal, there will be several requisite courses that will help acclimate students to the region, Opel said. 
“Depending on how students place into courses, they will 
have to take a 
French dents studying in Senegal, which is 90 percent Muslim. 
“That should prove to be an interesti ng dynamic,” she said. 
The program will be small, with only three to five students accepted. 
“We see this as a niche program. It is going to be relatively small 
with students who speak French and want an African perspec­tive,” Opel said. 
Students applying to the pro­gram should demonstrate a knowledge and understanding of the region, as it is very different from any of the other French language sites that are offered by OIS, she said. 
“It becomes very clear which students are more comfortable with a western program as opposed to one in Africa,” she said. “What the students tell us in the courses they take and their experiences will tell us if they are right for the region.” 
in relation to the 
history of slavery in the country. 
“Throughout the semester, there are trips such as one to Gorée Island, where slaves were kept once they were brought from different parts of Africa,” she said. 
In addition to their time in the capital, students will also have a special opportunity to travel to rural areas. 
Overall, she said the opportu­nities for travel, the history and the culture of Dakar will help make the program unique. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
Pearce said there is an idea that men are supposed to be in control all the time and many men choose to compro­mise their health in order to live up to this ideal. 
“Manhood is not about phys­ical appearance,” he said. “It’s about what you do with the gifts you have.” 
Pearce offered the example of Rudy, who fought against all odds to make his dream come true. 
“Everybody has something that they do that makes them who they are,” he said. “And that’s where you should draw your strength from.” 
Senior Nate Geary, a mem­ber of the men’s swimming and diving team, focused on the pressures facing student-athletes. 
“We’re always told that we are students first and athletes second,” he said. “But a lot of times, this isn’t true or possi­ble.” 
Geary discussed another stereotype that exists on cam­pus: “Domers” and “dumb­ers.” 
“People think that only stu­dents are the actual Domers, while the student-athletes are the dumbers,” he said. “There is definitely an added pres­sure in wanting to prove this stereotype wrong.” 
Val Staples, a staff clinician in the University Counseling Center, concluded with solu­tions on how to create a healthy and supportive cam­pus. 
Staples said the best thing to do is to sit down and talk to a friend that you think is having difficulty or feeling pressured. 
“There is no wrong way to let someone know that you care about them or are wor­ried about them,” she said. 


Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, October 7, 2010 


Forum 
continued from page 1 
For example, after the earth­quake in Haiti last year, Towle wanted to fly immediately to the country to help, but that was nearly impossible in the wake of the disaster. 
“I went on a run and said a prayer to Mary that if she want­ed me to be there, then I would get there,” Towle said. “Literally within an hour, I had a call from a colleague who said he had a private plane with 4,000 pounds of medical supplies bound for Haiti. He asked me if I could leave in 24 hours.” 
No matter how many medical missions Towle completes, he said the purpose has to be for reasons solely related to improving the conditions of oth­ers. 
“We’re not missionaries,” he said. “We’re not there to do something for other people to make ourselves feel better. That would be for my own personal good and not the common good.” 
While Towle uses his medical training to make a difference, Daniela Papi, a 2000 graduate of the University, lived in Cambodia and created her own organization to serve the local community. 
Papi founded PEPY, an organ­ization that offers expeditions to tourists while educating them on how they can contribute to development in the area. It also funds educational programs for the residents of rural Cambodia. 
“As Notre Dame students, you have received the best educa­tion the country has to offer,” Papi told the students. “Until everyone can receive this same opportunity, a country of equali­ty for all is not possible.” 
Papi said she created her own business model to serve the needs of the Cambodian com­munity she has come to recog-path Notre Dame students pur­nize as her own. sue after graduation, they 

“We need to ask ourselves would inherently look for how we serve the common good careers with a higher purpose through business,” she said. because of their Notre Dame “We do a lot of giving away in background. the United States, but we need “The bottom line is that you to go a bit further. We need to will not be happy in your career look at how we do business and if you don’t do something that 
we  have  to  links you back to  
improve how we do what we  “The bottom line is  the good of the community,” he  
do.” Papi said the o r g a n i z a t i o n gives bike tours  that you will not be happy in your career if you don’t do  said. J u d K a t h l Kearney,  g e e e n who  
to tourists and e n c o u r a g e s them to donate to the schools  something that links you back to the good of the community.”  graduated from the University in 1980, said no matter what  
and local com- career students  
munity after experiencing it firsthand.  Terrence Keeley 1981 graduate  choose after graduation, stu­dents should  

“Our goal is that when they leave, they have changed the way they live and give,” she said. 
Terrence Keeley, a 1981 grad­uate who founded his own sov­ereign advisory practice, Sovereign Trends, LLC, addressed how the common good can be achieved in a capi­talistic system. 
One of the first things the world needs to do to move for­ward from the current financial crisis is stop doubting the cur­rent financial system, Keeley said. 
“There’s no way we can approach this conversation about the economy and the common good if we don’t place trust in the system,” he said. 
Keeley is currently working to establish the Financial Hippocratic Oath, which he hopes will operate like the “Golden Rule” of the world economy. 
“Basically if you wouldn’t want your competitor to do it to you, you won’t do it to them,” he said. 
Keeley said no matter what remember the 
moral of their Notre Dame education. 
“You need to give voice those who do not have it and repre­sent those who no one else wants to represent,” she said. 
Kearney, who now works as a clinical professor and researcher at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, works with children in welfare services. 
For these children, she said, their “nightmares were their reality.” 
She said many students might encounter deplorable circum­stances and situations on their path to serve the common good. But she added that a Notre Dame background would help students complete their jobs without getting bogged down in negativity. 
“You will also see great hope everyday and it will get you up and will give you the strength to do it,” she said. “And you con­tinue to fight because you are a member of the Fighting Irish.” 

Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 





Extreme weather tears through West 
Associated Press 
BELLEMONT, Ariz. — A rare swarm of tornadoes shoved semis off highways and destroyed homes in the pre­dawn darkness Wednesday, leaving startled residents won­dering if they were in Arizona anymore or had woken up in the twister-prone Midwest. 
After one tornado rumbled through Bellemont around 5:30 with wind speeds of up to 110 miles per hour, residents armed with flashlights emerged from their homes to check on the damage — a house splintered, windows smashed, garage doors twisted, but no major injuries. 
"Running through the house, all the Kansas movies go through your head telling you: 'Move to the basement,'" Breanna Hunt said. "But we don't have a basement." 
Another tornado struck min­utes later east of the small town of a few hundred people nestled in the Ponderosa pines just west of Flagstaff. Weather forecasters confirmed a total of four twisters, including one reported around noon along Interstate 17 south of Flagstaff. 
National Weather Service meteorologist George Howard said 22 tornado warnings were issued Wednesday. The radar showed many more twisters likely formed but weren't con­firmed. 
Sparsely populated Arizona typically has four tornadoes a year, but rarely if ever sees twisters come in clusters and cause the kind of damage seen Wednesday, meteorologists said. 
"The hammering that north­ern Arizona is getting right now is exceptional," said National Weather Service meteorologist Ken Waters in Phoenix. "It's not uncommon this time of year to have one or two tornado reports or a warning, but this is quite an outbreak." 
The storm system moved across the West over the last few days, dropping record-setting rain in northern Nevada, pound­ing Phoenix with hail and dump­ing enough snow in the Sierra Nevada mountains to close a highway pass. 
In Utah, two teenagers were struck by lightning outside their school Tuesday. They were air­lifted to a Las Vegas hospital, where one regained conscious­ness Wednesday and a trauma surgeon predicted the other would recover but suffer major scarring. 
The extreme weather came from a low-pressure system that has been parked over Central and Southern California. The system was expected to weaken as it drifts northward. 
Arizona, however, was the hardest hit. On Tuesday, storms ripped out trees and broke win­dows in metropolitan Phoenix, flooded roadways, shut airports and dented cars and shattered windows with hail bigger than golf balls in some places. 
On Wednesday, semitrailers were sitting along the side of Interstate 40. High winds cast dozens of cars of a freight train off the tracks in Bellemont around 6:30 a.m. No one was injured and the cars did not con­tain any hazardous materials. 
About 30 homes were so badly damaged that they were unin­habitable and the people who lived in them were evacuated, authorities said. A shelter was set up for them. 
Minutes before the first torna­do in Bellemont touched down, Jeff Cox was standing in his garage, his children nestled in bed. Rain and hail pounded hard against the windows and a fierce wind made it look like houses were swaying. 
Then Cox heard a deafening sound and ducked beneath a flatbed trailer carrying two all-terrain vehicles. 
The tornado struck, pushing the trailer two feet, tearing off the roof of nearly his entire home and throwing it and other debris into the nearby forest. 
"It was so loud, it sounded like a big boom," his wife, Jennifer, said through tears, wiping water from collectables she was trying to salvage. 


Thursday, October 7, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Suicide seen as teachable moment 
Associated Press 
Often feeling marginalized in political discourse or grousing that they’re used as political pawns, they have the nation’s attention — and sympathy — after a recent spate of teenage suicides and two apparent anti-gay attacks in the heart of their community. 
Same-sex marriage and gays in the military remain on the political front burner, but gen­eral education and anti-dis­crimination campaigns are drawing a wider audience. While advocates hesitate to appear as if they’re capitaliz­ing on tragedy, some observers say the political gains from it could come naturally. 
Rep. Barney Frank, the nation’s first openly gay con­gressman, drew a parallel to the violent images of trained animals attacking civil rights protesters in the segregated South — and how they helped galvanize white sentiment in favor of black civil rights. 
“The police dogs helped the movement,” he said. “It’s when bigotry shows itself at its worst that people respond.” 
Several teenagers from California to Rhode Island committed suicide in the past few weeks, including New Jersey college student Tyler Clementi, who jumped off a bridge into the Hudson River after, prosecutors say, his roommate and a friend secret­ly streamed his sexual encounter with a man on the Web. New York police reported two anti-gay assaults over the weekend, including one at the bar where riots credited with the birth of the modern gay rights movement took place. 
Sympathy and outrage have manifested themselves in cam­pus vigils, viral videos by the likes of Ellen DeGeneres, a call for awareness by comedian Margaret Cho on “Dancing With the Stars,” and even state legislation addressing the New Jersey case. Politicians includ­ing U.S. Sens. Frank Lautenberg and Robert Menendez attended a “statewide town meeting” at Rutgers on Wednesday night in honor of Clementi and bullying victims elsewhere in New Jersey. 
Political strategists think the tears and reflection might be an opportunity to advance gay rights. 
“Every once in a while, there’s something about the victim and the way it happens that transfers from tragedy into a teachable moment,” said Richard Socarides, an adviser to President Bill Clinton on gay and lesbian issues. 
It’s not a moment of opti­mism for all gay rights activists. 
“There have been many high-profile incidents of ado­lescent suicide, even pre-ado­lescent suicide where kids have ended their own lives because of despair and hope­lessness,” said Ethan Geto, a lobbyist who works on gay rights issues. “This has not yet led to a comprehensive, truly meaningful social-slash-gov­ernmental reaction.” 
But there are signs this time might be different. 
Christian A. Berle, deputy executive director of the Log Cabin Republicans, a gay GOP group, noted that the conser­vative tea party movement that has captured much of the Republican zeitgeist has not focused as much on social issues as has the party estab­lishment. 
“A lot of them are saying that these fiscal issues should be the foremost concern,” Berle said. “Time and time I’ve heard that banning gay mar­riage would not give anyone a job; banning gays from serving in the military is not going to gain any jobs.” 
Billy Kluttz, a co-president of the gay student organization at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill, said his organization is holding a vigil Thursday to honor the suicide and assault victims and spread awareness of vio­lence that can confront young gays. 
Straight students he talks to are sympathetic about what happened to Clementi, the stu­dent at New Jersey’s Rutgers University, he said. 
“People are more receptive,” Kluttz, a junior from Concord, N.C., said. “We use that for building more ally support.” 
The suicide problem, like bullying, has long been a major concern among rights groups and carefully tracked by gay-oriented media outlets, but the widespread attention is new — even as formerly far-fetched ideas like legalized gay marriage have become reality in some places. 
“While we have openly gay politicians and gay characters on television, the reality of life still seems dire for some of these young people,” said Michael Cole, spokesman for Human Rights Campaign, a national gay rights group. Despite increasing tolerance for gays on some fronts, the most-heard insult at schools is, “That’s so gay,” he said. 
Hate-crime laws came into being in several states after Matthew Shepard, a gay, 21­year-old student at the University of Wyoming, was found beaten and tied to a remote fence post in 1998. 
In the time since then, gay rights have become a mainstay in the national political con­versation — but marriage and the military have gotten the most attention and seen key court victories in both areas. 




The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, October 7, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Rationale 
I left The Observer offices in the basement of South Dining Hall at 
2:30 a.m. one morning this fall, and as I reached South Quad and its wonderful cell phone reception, I received a text from my girl-Allan Joseph friend that, in 
Sports 
a not-as-fami-
Production 
ly-friendly way, 
Editor 

asked “Why the heck do you do it? You’re a pre-med. You don’t want to be nor will you ever be a journalist.” 
As I walked back to the greatest of all university residence halls, St. Ed’s (we have a Yacht Dance), I was left pondering the question myself. After all, Shivani has a point. I could easily spend many hours a week working in a research lab or doing other stereotypical pre-med things instead of covering sports for this venerable publication; in fact, those things were probably more prudent. There’s a reason I choose to do what I do … but what is it? 
It certainly isn’t the occasional perks that come along with sports writing, like covering a football game or two from the press box or going on the far-too-rare trip with a team to the postseason. As nice as they are, they’re usually outweighed by the tedium of laying out pages and writing Observer staff reports about less-glamorous sports. 
As any Observer worker will tell you, it’s definitely not the pay. 
In this day and age of Google News, Twitter and other Internet sources, it’s not the pride that comes with producing the primary source of news on campus. 
I don’t work for Viewpoint, so I don’t have the joy of producing the section of the paper that is easily the second-most-desired invitation on campus (behind the aforemen­tioned Yacht Dance, of course). 
If it’s not any of those things, you may ask, what is it? The answer came to me as I walked past the brightly lit Dome. It’s the same rea­son that most of the students on this campus sacrifice hours of sleep for some activity or another (except for my roommate, who does standup comedy only for the attention). In fact, it’s the same reason I chose to come to Notre Dame: the people. 
From the ever-entertaining (and ever-distracting) Molly Madden, to the always-helpful Meaghan Veselik and the ray of sunshine that is Molly Sammon, from the easily-amused­past-1 a.m. Laura Myers, to even the perpetually grumpy (in a usually funny way) Douglas Farmer, the people that work and write for The Observer make it more enjoyable than an underpaying timesuck should be. 
Matt Gamber may be a little bit of a perfectionist when it comes to lay­ing out pages, and the rest of the Ed Board might have high standards for story quality, but the time I put into this publication is more than worth it thanks to the people with whom I work. There are many whom I didn’t mention … but the fact is, even at 2:00 a.m., The Observer is a great place to be. 
Just ask my interhall writers. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Vote the bums out 
Remember, remember the fourth of November. Remember how the politi­cians in Washington ignored you time and time again. Remember the empty promises of economic recovery and job growth. Remember how Mark Easley they covered up 
Elephant in 
the facts and 
the Room 
forced a half-baked healthcare bill down your throat. Remember the bank bailouts and the rewards the Wall Street fat cats received from the federal government for crashing the economy. Remember the trillions of dollars added to the deficit in the last two years. Remember the bungled oil spill response. Remember the soldiers who have died fighting in Afghanistan. Remember the blatant encroachments on states’ rights. Remember all your unemployed and struggling neighbors. Remember all the lies congressman and senators have peddled to you about their intentions. There are many griev­ances to remember this November as all of us (hopefully) go to the ballot box. 
It is time to clean house. We are at the political tipping point of our gen­eration and the future of the United States. Corrective measures need to be taken now, especially when it comes to the economy. The politicians in Washington spend, spend, spend, but after all their “efforts” you and I and everyone else haven’t seen any positive results. We still have a hard time finding a job after graduation. We still have to cut back our budgets like it is the heart of the recession. Our parents are still struggling with job security. Finding credit and loans 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

is still like looking for Carmen San Diego. Higher taxes lurk on the hori­zon. Money is scarce and getting more worthless by the month. We are still fighting the longest war in U.S. history. The borders are still not secure and our enemies abroad grow bolder by the day. This election we have a duty to un-elect all the incom­petent incumbents who have failed to uphold their stewardship of our nation. Democrats (primarily) and Republicans alike should be held to the fire. It doesn’t matter how long they have served their states and how much money they have porked to their constituents. We have to band together to fix this mess, and we need the direction of a fiscally conservative approach. 
There is only one way for us to get out of this mess and that is to elect politicians who will get the govern­ment’s big nose out of the economy. The more the government tries to “fix” things, the more problems it cre­ates. Government isn’t the solution, it is the problem. We can get out of this slump. We’ve done it before. But, if we continue to vote idiots, thieves and liars into office we might not get out this time. One of President Obama’s few good quotes is that “we are the ones we have been waiting for.” We, not the politicians, are the ones who are going to pull ourselves out of this recession through our labor, our intelligence and our talents. We are the ones who are going to generate vast wealth again and maintain our prestige as the most prosperous and innovative country in the world. America has done so much in its short history, but our story doesn’t have to end here. We don’t have to fall into decline and step aside for a new superpower to take our place. Our system has been assaulted, but the fundamentals still remain. The same fundamentals that propelled our people to prominence and dominance are still here for us and generations of Americans after us to utilize as long as we fight for them every step of the way. If we believe we can be the best in the world, then nothing can stop us from making that true. 
While we can’t elect the leadership we desperately need in the White House this November, we can at least stop the bleeding created by the Obama-Reid-Pelosi agenda. We need to stop the tax hikes and money burn­ing agenda items that aren’t helping Americans make a living. We should-n’t punish the rich and middle class with higher taxes because all of us will feel the after effects. We should-n’t reform healthcare insurance on a lie that it will pay for itself and it will provide the same quality of coverage. We can’t afford the prospect of cap and tax, an economic crippler. There is a lot at stake this election. Vote for people that are going to be responsi­ble with our money and that stay out of our way when we try to create prosperity. We need to make a state­ment that we aren’t happy with the direction of the country. Show those politicians who really has the power. 
Down with Pelosi! Down with Reid! Vote the bums out! 
Mark Easley is a junior majoring in computer science. He can be reached at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The vitality of thought is in adven­ture. Ideas won’t keep. Somethingmust be done about them.” 
Alfred North Whitehead English philosopher 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Courage is doing what you’reafraid to do. There can be no courage unless you’re scared.” 
Eddie Rickenbacker 
U.S. aviator 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, October 7, 2010 page 9 
A prayer worth knowing by heart 
In the Catholic Church, today we celebrate the memorial of Our Lady of the Rosary. It’s worth spending a little time today, then, reflecting on a devo­tion that is at the same time beloved, 
scoffed at, and …  
well, ignored …  Kate Barrett  
by Catholics and non-Catholics  Faithpoint  
alike.  

This past Monday night many fami­lies from our parish of St. Joseph gathered at a local funeral home to pray the rosary with a long-time member of our community whose hus­band died last week. Praying the rosary together at a wake is a long-held custom in the Catholic Church. Just before the rosary began, directly behind my husband and our children and me, a family sat down who had been very good friends of the new widow and her husband. I knew they weren’t Catholic and probably had lit­tle familiarity with Catholic devotional practices, and I found myself some­what distracted by wanting to turn around and whisper to them, “Can I please explain to you why this is real­ly neat, and very comforting, and not just as strange and nonsensical as you might be thinking right now?” I want­ed to help them feel more welcome and more a part of the ritual that was about to unfold around them. 
The rosary actually grew out of quite practical origins, as have many of our traditional Catholic practices. Many centuries ago most people, whether Christian or otherwise, couldn’t read at all, much less any­thing as complex as the Bible, so Church leaders sought alternative ways to teach and to share the faith. Stained glass windows and statues of saints and characters from the Bible, replete with particular symbols to identify each one arose from this desire to help people recognize and pass on, without words, the truths and people of our faith. The 150 Hail Mary’s of the rosary represent the 150 Psalms of the Old Testament, which the monks could sing, read and pray over in their daily prayers, but which most others, illiterate, could not. And each set of 10 Hail Mary’s begins with a specific moment from the events of the birth, ministry, death or resurrec­tion of Jesus Christ. 
So now that we can read, why has the rosary hung around as a prayer practice in the church? For me, it’s connected to a recurring phrase about the Mary herself prayed about Jesus from Luke’s gospel. When a momen­tous event would happen in Jesus’ life, Luke notes, “Mary kept all these 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Stay for the Alma Mater 
Notre Dame upperclassmen, you’ve been receiving a lot of “commentary” regarding your fandom over the last few weeks from alumni and underclassmen. I’ve seen you stick up for yourself, and I understand where you are coming from. I know why you leave games early and have stopped cheering. This is my 7th year as a student here. Years 1 through 4 were 2001-05, meaning I saw teams that went 5-6, 10-3, 5-7 and 6-6 (including an appearance in the prestigious Insight Bowl). While I was lucky enough not to be a student during the 3-9 2007 season, I have seen two 6-6 records since I returned to school here in the fall of 2008. I understand disenchantment. This is my first letter to the Observer in my 7 years on this campus, and I want to let you all know one thing: stay for the alma mater. 
In 2003, I was disenchanted. 

I love Notre Dame and was the guy who went to multi­ple away games each season. I’ve been to Notre Dame games in Colorado, Florida, Michigan, New Jersey, Maryland, Massachusetts and Tennessee. But in 2003, I left two games early because of the beating that our team was taking (if you need to know, they were FSU (37-0) and USC (41-14)). I thought that would show the team they needed to work harder and that they had disappointed me. But in the end, what I really learned was that being a Notre Dame student was more than being angry at our football team for not winning. It’s about singing the fight song, screaming on third downs and being with your friends. Most importantly, it’s about staying for the alma mater and cheering for the school that you love. You have a finite time to stand in the student section, and you will not think any moment there was a waste of time later in your life. I challenge you all to stay for the next four games, no matter what happens on the field. Stay until the end and sing the alma mater with our team. 
Go Irish! 
Joe Graham 
alumnus Class of 2005 law student Oct. 5 


things, reflecting on them in her heart.” For one thing, the rosary forces you to slow down, to reflect on things in your heart. Even though we usually only pray 50 Hail Mary’s at a time, that’ll take a while, no matter how fast you can go. In a world in which Google can instantly report how many fractions of a second your search just took, in a world in which we tap our feet impatiently in front of the microwave waiting on a 30-second warm-up for our coffee, we can cer­tainly benefit from a prayer which by its very framework takes at least fif­teen minutes to complete. 
As we sat in the funeral home, I tried to put myself in the minds of the family behind us, listening to this roomful of people of all ages repeating the same prayer ten times in a row, then after a brief interlude doing it again … and again. Over time, I have come to appreciate how repetitive, learned-by-heart prayers help us to focus our attention while not requir­ing all our attention. As our United States Bishops said of the rosary, “The gentle repetition of the words helps us to enter the silence of our hearts, where Christ’s Spirit dwells.” On Monday night as I listened to the Scripture stories about the beginning of Jesus’ life, praying “Hail Mary” and “Our Father” and “Glory Be” gave me the opportunity to reflect on the life well-lived of a man who had deeply touched many hearts in our parish community. 
Can you remember the first time you tried jogging or biking, or the first time you took a spinning or Pilates class? You may have felt dorky or awkward or just plain exhausted, and wondered, “Who thought that was a good idea?” However, if you perse­vered, perhaps you discovered a sur­prisingly compelling attraction to your new workout, and even came to look forward to the next time you could participate. All prayer, but maybe especially prayers like the rosary, will grow on you like that if you give it the opportunity. Why not give the rosary a try? You never know where it might lead you. 
P.S. Rosaries, and instructions for praying the rosary are available for you in the Campus Ministry Offices of the Coleman-Morse Center. 
This week’s Faithpoint is written by Kate Barrett, director of the Emmaus Program. She can be reached at Katharine.S.Barrett.28@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Wins are important, too 
Ms. Combs, 

As a double-domer, former history major, and lifelong Notre Dame fan, I was both astonished and disheartened by your article in today’s Observer (“When the breaks are beating the boys, Oct. 5). Despite your belief that “it’s about the unity ... the spirit ... [and] the love that peo­ple all over the country ... feel for this University,” it is, undeniably, about the wins. Without the on-field successes of teams past, the contributions of our many hall-of-fame coaches and players, and the vision of Fathers Hesburgh, Joyce and others, the “unity, spirit and love” you cite would not exist. Before Rockne and Leahy, and Gipp and Hornung, and all the rest of our famed footballers, this place was little more than a missionary outpost; a part farm, part boarding school, part trading post; a place where Holy Cross priests, Native Americans and Catholic youths came together to achieve a very modest, and very limited goal. Today, of course, it is much more. And it is, in very large part, because Notre Dame was — for most of the 20th century — the premier football program in all of America. 
By winning on Saturdays, Notre Dame gained respect, prestige and power. It gained the love and support of countless thousands of Irish and Catholics and laborers who — though never having the chance to attend Notre Dame or even visit South Bend — identified with our school’s mission and resolve; who were inspired by our dedication to being the best at every­thing we do, and our determination to both fight and win ... whatever the odds. Often, it was these many people who gave so generously to our school; who, after listening to the Irish on the radio, would boast about “their” boys, and donate to Our Lady. By winning (and win­ning, and winning) in both this stadium and cities across the country, Notre Dame grew in stature; and, in so doing, gave itself the oppor­tunity and authority to speak out against anti-Catholic sentiment, stand up for civil justice and kick the Ku Klux Klan out of South Bend. 
Notre Dame is the place it is today because — at least at one point in time — its administra­tion, faculty, students and supporters, all believed in a unique, and worthy mission: in being champions for Catholicism; in being the best in everything we do, in every way we can 
— in spirit, in service, in academics, and, very importantly, in athletics. Notre Dame used the football field as a means to spread its mission, and help others. Until roughly 1996, it succeed­ed. Now, it is changing; morphing into — at best 
— 
a kind of Catholic Disneyland; at worst, a place without an identity, another top school, but nothing more — a “Catholic” Stanford, or an Ivy of the Midwest. 

Without football — without winning football 

— 
the unique unity, spirit and love you and oth­ers feel will dissipate. The so-called “Subway” alums will disappear. The television money will dry up. The merchandise sales will decrease, and our Athletic Department will run in the red. Scholarships, service opportunities and general donations will all diminish. And all those traditions you hold dear (after just three home football games) will be rendered mean­ingless. But most importantly, the voice and influence of this University will fade. When our leaders, students and alumni speak out against the world’s atrocities, and for the betterment of others, fewer people will listen. Football can still be our entre into America’s living rooms, and our spark for change; but only if we win. (Just think: were Notre Dame not a household name and a football power, would Fr. Hesburgh’s noble and brave stance on social justice be so effectual? Would the picture of him, standing arm-in-arm with Martin Luther King, Jr., be so powerful to so many? Would he — as the head of just another University — have been appointed to the Civil Rights Commission?) 

Winning football was and is a vital part of Notre Dame. And I hope that you — and the rest of this increasingly apathetic student body 

— 
can come to understand, appreciate and root for that. Because believe me, the losses, they do stick with you. And they leave you sad. 


P.S. I invite you — if possible — to research the history of Notre Dame football and its impact on the current University you are so for­tunate to attend. Murray Sperber’s “Shake Down the Thunder” is a great start. But if you really want to inform yourself, invite Father Blantz out for coffee. 
P.P.S. I am, by no means, applauding the stance of the upperclassmen you meant to call out. Theirs is an equally disheartening attitude. 
Adam Fischer 
alumnus Class of 2007 law student Oct. 5 
The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Thursday, October 7, 2010 


The Observer 

Scene
Thursday, October 7, 2010 page 11 
Acousticafe LaFortune Basement 10 p.m. Free 

Come and hang out with your friends tonight at the LaFortune basement and enjoy the live music of some of the best stu­dent performers on campus. It’s a great way to take a break from studying for midterms and relax for a while with food, friends and great entertainment. The best part? It’s free. Don’t miss it! 
‘The Twilight Saga: Eclipse’ DeBartolo 101 
10:30 p.m. $3 
Can’t get enough of Edward, Jacob, and Bella? This week­end, SUB Movies brings you the third installment of the Twilight saga, complete with vampires and werewolves. See who Bella finally chooses this Friday in the big screen and in company of snacks and friends! 

OK Go Concert Legends 10 p.m. Free Entrance with Student ID 
OK-GO is back at ND and ready to play their fun and catchy music for us at Legends, after collaborat­ing with the marching band to pro­duce the music video for “This Too Shall Pass” last year. Get ready to dance and party to the rhythm of this awesome band in what prom­ises to be one of the best and biggest concerts of the year! 
‘The Bible: The Complete Word of God (Abridged)’ DPAC Philbin Theatre 
2:30 p.m. Students $5 
Ready to laugh? The university department of Film, Television, and Theatre brings you an abridged version of the Bible with many funny and modern twists you will definitely enjoy. Begin the upcoming week with laughter and don’t miss this great and enter­taining way to end your weekend! 


LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 7, 2010 
MLB 

Lincecum ready for playoff start against Braves 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Tim Lincecum emerged as the most dominant pitcher in the National League in his first two full major league sea­sons. Back -to -back NL Cy Young Awards. Two All-Star selections, 526 strikeouts. All by the age of 25. 
Now, the 16-game winner for the San Francisco Giants gets to take the ball for his most important start yet: Game 1 of the division series against the wild-card Atlanta Braves on Thursday night at AT&T Park. 
Postseason veteran Derek Lowe (16-12) will go for the Braves, who reached the playoffs with a dramatic 8-7 win over the Philadelphia Phillies on the season’s final day to extend manager Bobby Cox’s farewell season. 
It took big performances by Lincecum’s supporting cast to get the Giants back to the playoffs after a six -year absence. They won the NL West despite enduring a career-worst five-start losing streak by their ace in August. Lincecum came through over the final month and hopes to carry that momentum into his playoff debut. 
San Francisco manager Bruce Bochy knows Cox will be prepared for anything and everything. The 69-year-old Cox is retiring after the sea­son. He led Atlanta to 14 straight division titles but the Braves are back in the play­offs this season for the first time in five years. 
“I revere this guy so much with what he’s done and what he’s accomplished,” Bochy said. “It’s going to be good to see him, I will say that. I do know that you have to play your best ball to beat this team. You’re not going to sur­prise Bobby. He ’s a great manager.” 
Neither team planned to finalize its roster until Thursday’s deadline. At 91­71, the Braves finished with 
one fewer win than the Giants. Both teams played catch up in September, with Atlanta losing the NL East to the defending league champi­on Phillies. 
The Braves won a majors-best 25 games in their final at-bat. 
Lincecum finished his up-and-down year by winning five of his last six starts fol­lowing the skid. He beat the Braves way back on April 11 in his second start of the year, then lost on the road Aug. 5. Atlanta catcher Brian McCann has been one of several Braves to regularly hit Lincecum, going 8 for 21 with a home run and three doubles against the hard -throwing righty. 
There’s thought some hit­ters have begun figuring him out. 
“If you look at from when he got drafted, through the minors and all the way up to this point, he’s always been just a power pitcher and going out there on pure abili­ty, pure talent,” Giants reliev­er Sergio Romo said of Lincecum. “The last couple years, he’s having success as a complete pitcher, showing he does have more than unbelievable talent. He has it upstairs, he has work ethic. Everyone goes through their slumps, so for him to have the downs that he had this year and to bounce back and finish as strong as he has, you’d expect a pitcher of his caliber to be able to bounce back as well as he has. He definitely came out a bigger, better guy upstairs. It’s pretty cool.” 


All the numbers and matchups mean little now. The Braves are playing to extend their special year for Cox. The Giants have made it this far without a superstar like their old Barry Bonds-led teams. 
“This year we made every effort to put together the best team we could and do every­thing we could to improve on last year’s record and be con­tenders all through the sea­son,” said second-year San Francisco managing partner Bill Neukom. “So far so good is all you can say.” 
Lincecum’s funk was the first prolonged rough stretch of his career. It wore on him mentally, but he finally worked out of it. Bochy has said Lincecum has emerged a better pitcher because of his struggles, which the 10th 
overall draft pick in 2006 never experienced in his days at the University of Washington or in a brief minor league career along the way. 
MLB 

Wade to travel with Heat despite leg injury 
Associated Press  “Today is the first day of the road to recovery,” Wade said  haps the most important thing: If an injury is going to strike, it  a screen set by the Pistons’ Ben Wallace. As Wade ran  “Hopefully it’s not too bad,” Spoelstra said. “Right now,  
MIAMI — Dwyane Wade was off the court, perfecting the art of taking scoop shots from underneath a side basket and getting them to fall through the net without touching the rim. That’ll be the extent of his basketball work for the next week or two. Wade’s ailing right hamstring was no better on Wednesday, one day after his preseason debut was cut short following a stint that lasted a mere 3 min­utes, 17 seconds. Sore when he went to bed after the game, sore when he got up Wednesday morning, sore as the day went along.  as his teammates finished may as well happen now toward the foul line from the practice. before the grind of the 82-low post, he grabbed the ham-He walked stiffly Wednesday, game season — and, the Heat string, motioned to the bench, but was on his feet for an hope, well beyond — finally then reached again for the extended period of time, which begins. back of his leg with his right some in the gym took as a good “They assembled the team hand. sign. There’s still no clear indi­the right way,” James said. When the ball came his way cation how much time Wade “The front office and coach after a deflection off Tayshaun will miss — coach Erik Spo and Pat (Riley, the Heat Prince’s foot, Wade wouldn’t Spoelstra said he’ll be re-president), they assembled the stop reaching for the leg. He evaulated in a week, Wade is team the right way for the long scooped up the loose ball with bracing to miss up to two haul. Right now, we’ve got a his left hand and — in one weeks, LeBron James said it guy out, a great player that’s motion — tried throwing a 45­might be a few weeks before out right now and probably be foot pass to James heading quickly adding “if less.” out for a few weeks, if less. down the other end in transi-Spoelstra said he thought And we’ve got guys who can tion, still tugging at his ham-Wade would receive an MRI; step up.” string with the right. The ball Wade said no test was sched-Wade got hurt while trying to went out of bounds moments uled. The only thing everyone defend Detroit’s Richard later, and Wade limped to the is on the same page on is per-Hamilton and running around bench.  we’ll treat it, hoping it responds quicker.” Wade will travel with the Heat later this week for pre­season games at Kansas City (against Oklahoma City) and San Antonio this weekend, but will not play. “I know the offense, I know the defense and I know these guys,” Wade said. “Me fitting in, it won’t be a problem at all. ... We’re still building some­thing here, off the court as well as on the court. We’re getting to know everybody and I’m still a teacher. I can teach these guys and get my therapy while I’m there, so I wouldn’t even think about not traveling.”  

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
NOW RENTING 2011-12 4BD/2BA  If you or someone you care about  Pam Beesly: Oh my goodness you  
FOR SALE  FOR RENT  HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBOR  PERSONAL  has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit  sound sexy.  
Notre Dame's website:  Jim Halpert: Oh, thank you. I've  
HOODS 574-876-6333  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't  http://csap.nd.edu.  been working out.  
Beautiful all brick ranch.  IRISH CORNER APARTMENTS  ————————————————  go it alone.  ————————————————  
New upscale apts. Less than 1 mi  Notre Dame has many  Jim Halpert: [after Jim paired his  ————————————————  
Close to ND.  from ND, next to Taco Bell on  AVAILABLE NOW 4BD/2BA HOME  resources in place to assist you.  headset with Dwight's cell phone]  Dwight Schrute: Woah woah woah!  
SR933. Fully furnished apts w/gran- If you or someone you love needs  Hello this is Dwight.  Pam! Pam! You are not talking to  
3BR 2.5 BA.  ite countertops, GE appliances  FOR RENT.  confidential support or assistance,  Dwight right now. You are talking to  
w/dishwasher. Each has 2bd/2bath.  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  Pam Beesly: [over the phone] Hello  Jim.  
$124,900 make offer.  Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. No  1.5 miles from  or Ann Firth at 1-2685.  is this Dwight?  Pam Beesly: [into phone] Dwight?  
water/sewer bill. $1000/mo starting.  For more information, visit ND's  Dwight Schrute: No! [waving] I'm  
Integra Real Estate, Sue Scott 574­ Call JSK Development 574-387­ ND 574-876-6333  website at: http://pregnancysup- Jim Halpert: Yes it is.  over here!  
220-3465  4466.  port@nd.edu.  Pam Beesly: I'm confused.  
————————————————  ————————————————  ————————————————  ————————————————  ————————————————  ————————————————  

Thursday, October 7, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
MLB 

Roy Halladay throws postseason no-hitter 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Talk about a postseason debut. 
Roy Halladay threw the sec­ond no-hitter in postseason history, leading the Philadelphia Phillies over the Cincinnati Reds 4-0 in Game 1 of the NL division series on Wednesday. 
Don Larsen is the only other pitcher to throw a postseason no-hitter. He threw a perfect game for the New York Yankees in the 1956 World Series against Brooklyn. The 54th anniversary of Larsen’s gem is this Friday. 
“It’s surreal, it really is,” Halladay said. “I just wanted to pitch here, to pitch in the postseason. To go out and have a game like that, it’s a dream come true.” 
Halladay took the Year of the Pitcher into the postsea­son. The excitement spread beyond Citizens Bank Park — the last two outs were shown on the video board at Target Field, where the Twins were preparing to play the Yankees, and Minnesota fans cheered. 
The All-Star right-hander, who tossed a perfect game at Florida on May 29, dominated the Reds with a sharp fastball and a devastating slow curve in his first playoff start. 
The overmatched Reds never came close to a hit. Halladay allowed only runner, walking Jay Bruce on a full count with two outs in the fifth, and struck out eight. 
Halladay spent 12 seasons with Toronto, far from the postseason. A trade last off­season brought him to the defending two-time NL cham­pions, and gave him this chance. 
“This is what you come here for,” Halladay said. “It’s a good team, they know how to win. ... It’s been a great year, a fun year, we obviously have a ways to go.” 
With a sellout crowd stand­ing in the ninth and chanting “Let’s Go, Doc!” Halladay got a loud ovation when he jogged to the mound to start the inning. 
Ramon Hernandez popped out to second baseman Chase Utley for the first out. Pinch-hitter Miguel Cairo then fouled out to third baseman Wilson Valdez. 
Halladay then retired Brandon Phillips on a tapper in front of the plate to end it. Catcher Carlos Ruiz pounced on the ball, getting down on his knee as the ball rolled near Phillips’ bat, and made a strong throw for the final out. 
Halladay pumped his fist into his glove as Ruiz rushed to the mound. Just like catch­er Yogi Berra did with Larsen, Ruiz started to jump into Halladay’s arms. Unlike Berra, Ruiz didn’t wrap up his pitcher in a bear hug. 
“I felt like we got in a groove early,” Halladay said. “Carlos has been great all year, he helps me get into a rhythm early, throwing strikes.” 
Phillies aces Roy Oswalt and Cole Hamels ran out of the dugout side -by -side to congratulate the other mem­ber of Philadelphia’s Big 3. Pretty soon, everyone in a Phillies uniform was part of the victory party. 
Phillies shortstop Jimmy Rollins made the toughest play to preserve the no-hitter, going deep in the hole and making a strong throw to retire Joey Votto in the fourth. 
Pitcher Travis Wood hit a sinking liner to right that Jayson Werth caught in the third. Pinch -hitter Juan Francisco hit a hard grounder up the middle in the sixth, but Rollins scooted over and made it look easy. 
There were five no-hitters in the majors this year as pitchers dominated. But five no-hit bids got broken up in the ninth inning, too. 
Halladay became the fifth pitcher to throw two no-hit­ters in the same year. He joined Nolan Ryan (1973), Virgil Trucks (1952), Allie Reynolds (1951) and Johnny Vander Meer (1938). 
The last time a pitcher came close to a no-hitter in the postseason was quite a while ago. Boston ’s Jim Lonborg went 7 2-3 innings against St. Louis in the 1967 World Series before Julian Javier broke up it with a dou­ble. 

The Phillies led the majors in wins (97) for the first time in franchise history, captured their fourth consecutive divi­sion title and are trying to become the first NL team in 66 years to win three straight pennants. 
They are prohibitive favorites in this best-of-five against the NL Central cham­pion Reds, who are making their first postseason appear­ance since 1995. 
NFL 

Browns’ T.J. Ward fined by NFL for penalty 
BEREA, Ohio — T.J. Ward’s tained a concussion. “I just tried to make a play a cheap shot like that, that’s players don’t like him “cheap shot” was costly. The league will not and unfortunately he got uncalled for.” (Mangini) anyway. “I don’t 
For delivering a nasty blow announce its discipline on hurt,” Ward said before prac-Browns coach Eric Mangini like him. We got to see him to an opponent’s head, the Ward until Friday. tice. “It’s part of the violent defended Ward, saying it was again anyway, so we’ll see NFL belted the Browns’ rookie A split-second after Shipley game we play. If you play that an aggressive play — nothing who’s going to do some cheap safety in the wallet. failed to catch a pass from position, it kind of comes with more. shots next game. 
Ward, who in just four Bengals quarterback Carson the territory.” Owens countered with a “Hit me like that.” games as a pro has developed Palmer in the end zone, Ward The Bengals weren’t pleased personal shot at Mangini. The Browns visit the a reputation as a ferocious unloaded on the rookie wide-and following the game, both “Look who it’s coming Bengals on Dec. 19. tackler and fearless talker, out, sending him sprawling to Palmer and wide receiver from,” Owens told Bengals Ward insists he didn’t inten­was fined $15,000 Wednesday the turf. Ward claims he led Terrell Owens accused Ward teammate Chad Ochocinco in tionally try to injure Shipley. for his helmet-to-helmet hit with his right shoulder, but of a dirty play. an interview on VERSUS in As he came across the end on Cincinnati wide receiver TV replays clearly show him “I just hate to see a guy get advance of the premiere of zone, Ward said he saw the Jordan Shipley during the making contact with Shipley’s hit like that in the head,” the “The T.Ocho Show.” ball and Shipley and acted fourth quarter of the Browns’ helmet. Owens said. “For him to take “Probably 90 percent of his instinctively. win on Sunday. 
Ward confirmed he was fined, but he would not divulge the amount. However, a person familiar with the sit­uation told The Associated Press that the league assessed Ward the $15,000 penalty for ramming Shipley, who was knocked out briefly and sus­




page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, October 7, 2010 
NFL 

Cushing returns after four-game suspension 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON — Brian Cushing insists he hasn’t lost a step. The Texans will find out soon enough. 
The Houston linebacker returned to practice on Wednesday for the first time since his four-game drug sus­pension, saying he’s eager to play again after feeling “help­less” at times watching his teammates on the field. 
Coach Gary Kubiak said Cushing will play for the Texans (3-1) against the New York Giants (2-2) on Sunday. 
Cushing said he’ll use the rest of the week to sharpen his foot­ball techniques and relearn Houston’s defensive calls and schemes. 
“I’m back,” Cushing said. “It’s going to be the same old (No.) 56 running around. It’s what I do. I take a lot of pride in play­ing football, and I want to be the best at it. Hopefully, I cannot skip a beat, come in Week 5, and be the player I’d be in Week 1.” 
Kubiak said he’s concerned that Cushing is about 250 real-game snaps behind the other defensive starters. But Cushing has proven before that he can catch up in a hurry after missing practice time. He sat out every preseason game last year, then led the team in tackles in its first four regular-season games. 
“He’s always handled himself well with the team, he’s always been very accountable in his preparation and his work,” Kubiak said. “It’s not like you have a player who we’re fighting to get in here and work and take care of his business. This guy is working all the time, so that’s not a problem.” 
Cushing wasn’t shy about sharing what he did in his month away from the team. 
Videos posted on YouTube in recent weeks show Cushing working out in a New Jersey gym, with hard-rock music play­ing in the background. Cushing turns over a giant tire, bench-presses a 347-pound barbell, dead-lifts weights attached to heavy chains and pushes a weighted sled. 
Cushing said he worked out about 3-4 hours a day during his suspension, including physical therapy and studying film of Texans’ games. He took Sundays off, and decided not to watch the live broadcasts of Houston’s games after the opening win over Indianapolis. 
“I couldn’t really watch the games anymore, just from the fact of not being able to be out there and not being able to help the team,” he said. “It’s kind of a helpless feeling. I played golf, and tried to get my mind off it. But I was on my cell phone every single second, checking the score updates.” 
Cushing was suspended in May after testing positive for HCG, a drug on the league’s list of banned substance. Cushing says he never took the drug, which can be used to restart testosterone production after a steroid cycle, and has no idea how it got into his body. 
He said during training camp that he has a unique medical condition — “overtrained athlete syndrome” — that led to the positive test. Cushing said the syndrome can trigger hormonal spikes after breaks in training. The NFL denied on appeal based on the argument. 
Cushing would not address questions about his medical con­dition on Wednesday, other than to say he was relieved to finally have the suspension behind him. 
“It’s peace of mind,” Cushing said. “The last two weeks, it was getting to me a little bit. I was a little on edge. Now, I’m back to doing what I do, and it’s a really mind-clearing kind of feeling. Now, I’m home.” 
Cushing said he’s talked to Texans left tackle Duane Brown, who was suspended for four games on Sept. 21 for also vio­lating the NFL’s banned sub­stance policy. Brown is eligible to return for the Texans’ Nov. 1 game at Indianapolis. 
“I just reached out to him and said if he had any questions, let me know,” Cushing said. “I know what he’s going through. I gave him some positive encour­agement, told him to keep his head up and time will pass, and he’ll be back on the field again.” 
Cushing was Houston’s first-round draft pick in 2009. He had 133 tackles, four sacks and four interceptions last season to win The Associated Press Defensive Rookie of the Year award. He retained the honor after a revote following his sus­pension. 
He’s motivated now to show skeptics that his performance level hasn’t tailed off. 
“I feel like I have something to prove every time I step on the field,” he said. “I’m sure some people will be looking for drop-offs and stuff like that, but noth­ing like that is going to happen. Come Sunday, I’ll be right back out there again, and I’m looking forward to it.” 
The Texans need Cushing to return to form as soon as possi­ble. They rank last in total defense (408 yards per game) and have given up several big pass plays. Houston has also lacked a consistent pass rusher other than defensive end Mario Williams, who has five of the team’s nine sacks. 



Thursday, October 7, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NBA 

Love, Webster guide Timberwolves to win 
Associated Press 
PARIS — Kevin Love and Martell Webster each scored 17 points to lead the Minnesota Timberwolves to a 106-100 win over the New York Knicks in an exhibition game Wednesday night. 
Anthony Randolph led the Knicks with 14 points and Amare Stoudemire added 11. 
Stoudemire, the Knicks’ biggest offseason addition, hit only four of 11 field goal attempts. He scored 32 points on Sunday when the Knicks beat Italian team Olimpia Milano 125­113. 
Stoudemire was surprised by Minnesota’s defense. 
“We’re not used to seeing that in preseason,” he said. “We defi­nitely committed too many fouls, something we talked about pre­viously.” 
The Timberwolves also won their first European preseason tour game with a 111-92 victory against the Los Angeles Lakers on Monday. 
Minnesota’s Michael Beasley, who scored 21 points against the Lakers, had 13 against the Knicks. 
“We got the flexibility, we got the draft choices and free agents we were looking at. We feel like we are on our way to building a high-caliber team,” Timberwolves coach Kurt Rambis said. “We got off to a horrible start. We didn’t play well at the beginning, that’s a simple fact, and then we did a pretty good job starting with the second half. 
Love said his team needs to cut out the mistakes. 
“After halftime, we cut down on turnovers. We know we ended up with 30 plus (turnovers), which is atrocious to say the least,” Love said. “We’re going to have to clean that up. That’s part of us being a very young team.” 
Knicks guard Wilson Chandler scored nine points to help his team to a 29-22 advantage at the end of the first quarter. 
Minnesota got back into the game after Stoudemire missed a couple of shots and was replaced by Danilo Gallinari after commit­ting his third foul. 
Beasley’s dunk off a rebound tied the game at 40-40, before Love put them ahead with a tip-in. Gallinari’s 3-pointer then put the Knicks back in front. 
The Knicks led 48-47 at half­time, with Stoudemire getting six points. Love had 11 and Randolph 10. 
The Timberwolves took a 72­63 lead in the third quarter when Anthony Tolliver made both free throws after he had been fouled by France center Ronny Turiaf, who was playing in front of his home fans at Bercy indoor arena. 
NFL 

Holmes happy to be back 
Associated Press 

FLORHAM PARK, N.J. — Santonio Holmes arrived at the Jets’ facility before the sun even rose, eager to get his day started. 
After not practicing for four weeks due to a suspension, the wide receiver was downright antsy to be on the field again Wednesday. Even if it was only 6 a.m. 
“I was a little upbeat this morning,” he said. “I was up early, walking the dog, got myself situated, driving to practice ready to go. I sat in meetings at attention. Everything was a little bit different.” 
Holmes, acquired from Pittsburgh in April, is expected to make his regular-season debut for the Jets on Monday night against the Minnesota Vikings. He was forced to sit the first four regular-season games by the NFL for violating the league’s substance abuse policy. 
“I’m ready to get the season started for myself,” he said. 
While he hadn’t practiced since camp ended, Holmes was able to attend meetings during his sus­pension. He used the rest of the time to stay in shape — not to reflect on what he had done to put him in that situation. 
“To look in your eyes and be honest with you, not 1 percent,” Holmes said. “I’ve been the same person since I stepped foot in the NFL. I’ll continue being the same person until I leave. I didn’t have anything to think about. 
Everything was already done in the process. It’s time to play foot­ball now.” 
The former Super Bowl MVP came to the Jets with some off-field issues other than the sus­pension. He was arrested in 2008 for possession of marijuana and involved in a domestic violence incident in 2006; the misde­meanor charges were later dis­missed. 
Holmes said those incidents had no impact on his perform­ance on the field. 
“I made it to the Super Bowl and won it, didn’t I?” Holmes said. “That’s all I had to do with myself. I didn’t have anything to think about. I’m a football player. 

What happens off the field hap­pens off the field. It doesn’t affect anything I do or what I’m capa­ble of doing.” 
Holmes will join an offense that has already been solid through four games, with Mark Sanchez throwing eight touchdown passes and no interceptions. 
“I think he’s going to be a huge thing for us,” coach Rex Ryan said. “He looks like he hasn’t missed a beat. He looked good.” 
Not that being away was easy for Holmes. 
“It’s a totally different mind­set,” he said. “You can’t be in the same mindset as a player. It’s tough, you know, being an out­cast.” 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 7, 2010 
her history of domination in possible. If the past is any pre-want to go out there and Mich., hosted by the doubles play. Last season, she dictor, that will be enough for play.” University of Michigan on Oct. 
Frilling 

and her partner, then-senior a strong showing, if not a win. The remainder of Notre 21-22. 
continued from page 20 
going to be good to get geared up for the season. It’s really 
good competi­tion, so we’ll be playing the best players in the country. I’ll be able to prove that I belong there.” 
The trip to the West Coast represents the first away match for the Irish thus far. Last weekend, the Irish com­peted in the and there is much expected from her, she is not going into the weekend with her sights set too high. Rather than set­ting impossible goals, she just wants to play the best tennis 



“I’m not going to go in expecting that I’m going to win. I just want to go out there and play.” 
Kristy Frilling Irish junior 
Eck Tennis 
Classic at home and took home two singles titles and 
one doubles title in the 
process. Frilling will look to continue 
Winning 
continued from page 20 
how good it would be to win.” 
A desire to play winning golf is clearly not the issue for the Irish. Having been around the game for a while, including an 18 month stint at Duke University as an assistant golf coach prior to taking the job at Notre Dame, Kubinski speaks from experi­ence in saying he believes in the competitive fire of his squad. 
“These guys want to win so badly,” Kubinski said. “I’ve never been around a more competitive group of guys, partners a good deal, but also had an impres­sive season in doubles. She went 2-0 with Frilling, 4-1 with sophomore Chrissie McGaffigan, and 3-3 with th en-se nio r Colleen Reilly. 

Kali Krisik, posted a 25-0 record in the duals season, good for No. 1 in the nation.  “ I ’m n o t going t o go i n expecting that I’m going to wi n, ” Fril ling s ai d . “I j u st  Dame’s team is still on campus prepa r i n g f o r Regi ona l Q u ali fy in g in A nn A rb or,  Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu  
Ma t h e ws  sw itch ed  ar o und  

Although Frilling has a high ranking 
even going back to my days at Duke.” 
The point of emphasis dur­ing practice this week has been in focusing this competi­tive energy on the golf course, and preventing dis­tractions from affecting Notre Dame’s play. 
“I’ve been telling the guys, ‘just focus like it’s a Friday afternoon at Warren,’” Kubinski said. “People always want to know who’s playing in the field next week, and I try to downplay that and tell them to just be yourself and go play golf, and just let the results fall where they may.” 
Contact Cory Bernard at 
cbernard@nd.edu 


Please recycle The Observer. 
Thursday, October 7, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
exercise, Kelly said, and going to be slow out of the Jackson has the right mentali-gates,” Kelly said. “You’ve got 
Kelly 
ty to do it well. to hit it, and he’s got that abil­

continued from page 20 “You’ve got 11 guys running ity where he’s a bit fearless downfield real fast with equip-from that standpoint. So it 
for his chance on Saturday.” ment on, and if you’re thinking takes a different kind of guy to Returning kicks is a mental about that, you’re probably do that.” 

Jackson also pointed to fear­lessness as a key aspect of returning. 
“You just have to read your blocks and work hard in prac­tice and go,” he said. “You can’t be scared to take a hit. You have to run full speed and hit the hole.” 
For Jackson, “full speed” means very fast. He was New Jersey state champion in the 110-meter hurdles in his sen­ior year, and cracked the 14­second mark in the race more than once. He said he might be one of the fastest players on the team. 
“I’m up there,” Jackson said. “I would think that I am, but I don’t know. There are a few guys that are up there too.” 
In fact, he would like to run track for Notre Dame — if Kelly will let him. 
“I would like to, but I’d have to ask coach,” he said. 
For now, though, Jackson is focused on returning kicks, with the possibility of getting in the game at receiver. He currently practices as an out­side receiver behind freshman TJ Jones. 
“I think I have a good work ethic and if I keep working I’ll get [to wide receiver] eventu­ally,” he said. “I enjoy special teams. It is something to do on the field. Later on in my career I am sure I’ll get a chance at receiver if I’m ready.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

Goalkeeper 
continued from page 20 
pushing me every day,” Johnson said. “It’s a really good situation we have, and all three of us continue to push each other. I’ve tried to keep the same mentality and keep working hard, just doing my best every day.” 
The sophomore is no stranger to the starting role, despite the fact that the Irish had two juniors and one sen­ior goalkeeper on the roster last season. Johnson took 
over midway through the year as the starter and posted a 10-13-5 record with a 2.60 goals against average in 28 starts. Johnson said his expe­rience being thrown into the starting role as a freshman serves him better as he starts off his sophomore campaign. 
“I’m feeling comfortable in there. I think the game is kind of slowing down for me, seeing things and making reads and things,” Johnson said. “My strength physically has improved a lot too. I think the game is just slowing down a lot for me, which helps a lot.” 
Johnson’s mettle as the man in goal will be tested immedi­ately this weekend as the Irish head to St. Louis to take part in the season-opening Warrior College Hockey Ice Breaker Tournament, where they are scheduled to take on Holy Cross in the opening game Friday and face either Boston University or Wisconsin on Sunday. Johnson will have some help against the three powerhous­es, however, as Irish head coach Jeff Jackson said he would try to get Summerhays a start over the weekend after he did not dress for the recent scrimmage against the University of Guelph. 
“[Summerhays] is a little bigger, just as athletic. He just has be a little bit more consistent with his play,” Jackson said. “I just want him not to give up squeakers, goals that go through him. He’s got to get a little tighter with his stance, especially on recovery. I think Steven’s got great potential, but he’s just got to keep working on cer­tain parts of his game.” 
Though the Irish are young in goal, the preparation that Johnson as well as the two freshmen are putting in dur­ing practice has Jackson, a former goalkeeper in his playing days, confident in his options between the pipes. 
“I think that last year [Johnson] proved he could play at this level,” Jackson said. “Now it’s a matter of him being consistent to show that he can be consistently good to be a No. 1 guy. But he ’s going to have pretty intense competition in my opinion with Summerhays.” 
Johnson and the rest of the Irish squad will get underway Friday against Holy Cross at Scottrade Arena in St. Louis at 5:30 p.m. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 7, 2010 
back guys.” some of the most talented play-ry, which brings his record to Bend before heading south to 
The Hoosiers were not to be ers in the nation. They don’t 2-0-1 on the season. Tuttle Morgantown, W. Va. Saturday 
Indiana 
continued from page 20 
since 2006, and only the team’s sixth win over the Hoosiers in 31 meetings. 
The Irish struck early, as sen­ior forward Jeb Brovsky scored his second goal of the season, punching in the rebound of fel­low senior forward Steven Perry’s 14th minute shot. 
“It was a good, solid perform­ance again tonight,” Clark said. “There was good movement from Brovsky and Perry. I thought we were the more dan­gerous team. [They] were very dangerous for [Indiana’s] four outdone, and junior forward Will Bruin found the back of the net after a pass from senior Andy Adlard in the 24th minute. Clark said he was dis­appointed by his team’s lapse in effort. 
“We took our foot off the pedal for a little bit,” Clark said. 
The Hoosiers outshot the Irish 11-8, but were unable to put another goal on the board, and Mena sealed the victory for Notre Dame. 
“We were very well matched,” Clark said. “Any game down in Bloomington will be a challenge. They’ve got lose many games at home. It’s reentered the Irish lineup last to take on conference foe West terrific for in-state bragging week after recovering from a Virginia at 7:30 p.m. rights.” knee injury that had kept him 


Senior goalkeeper Phil Tuttle out all season. Contact Eric Prister at recorded two saves in the victo-The Irish will return to South eprister@nd.edu 


Thursday, October 7, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  
13  14  15  
16  17  18  
19  20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  
27  28  
29  30  31  32  33  34  35  36  37  
38  39  40  
41  42  43  
44  45  46  
47  48  49  50  51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  
58  59  60  61  62  
63  64  65  
66  67  68  

Puzzle by Patrick Blindauer and Andrea Carla Michaels 
35 Much-discussed 47 Performance initials of a 1967 fanfares Beatles song 48 1988 Olympic 36 Bibliographic track star, 
suffix informally37 Pinup feature 49 Online financial 39 It bugs bugs services 
40 Green rocks company 44 Opposite of 50 One way to remove N.Y.C.'s Penn 46 Bit of A/V Sta. equipment 51 Prefix with -path 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
52 Bellini opera 
53 Words after “whether” 
54 DesignerGeoffrey 
59 Abbr. on a cough syrup
bottle 
60 ___ Z 
62 Kind of bran 



JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 

SCOTT MITCHELL and MATT MOMONT 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 


 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
The Observer

Sports
Thursday, October 7, 2010 page 20 
MEN’S SOCCER 


Irish senior defenseman Bilal Duckett, 3, attacks to stop St. John’s forward Walter Hines, 19, in their game on Sept. 25. The Irish won see INDIANA/page 18 the game 1-0. 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Juniors lead team in Cali 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Juniors Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews traveled to Pacific Palisades, Calif., to represent the Notre Dame women’s tennis team this week at the Riviera/All ­American Championships. 
Mathews dropped her open­ing singles match Tuesday as she fell to Florida’s Joanna Mather (6-0, 6-2) and moved on to play USC’s Reka Zsilinska in the consolation bracket. Frilling will begin singles play in the main sin­gles draw, and then meet back up with Mathews for the main doubles draw Thursday. 
“We played together a few times last year, and we won all our matches,” Frilling said. “We’re really excited to play together this year.” 
Frilling’s eager anticipation for the tournament was evi­dent. 
“I’m really excited for this weekend,” Frilling said. “It’s 
see FRILLING/page 16 
FOOTBALL 

Freshman proves special 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 

Freshman receiver Bennett Jackson made a name for himself when he made three tackles on special teams against Purdue on Sept. 4. On Saturday, he took another step when he returned four kickoffs for 111 yards in Notre Dame’s 31-13 defeat of Boston College. 
The yardage included his 43-yard return at the start of 
HOCKEY 

Johnson steps up his game 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
When he stepped onto cam­pus as a freshman in 2009, sophomore goaltender Mike Johnson had the benefit of three upperclassmen at the position to ease his transition to the college game. 
There is no such cushion this season for Johnson, as he leads a trio of young Irish goalkeepers into the 2010-11 season with Johnson project­ed as the initial starter between the pipes. The role of leader might not be too common for a sophomore — but Johnson is comfortable with it. 
“We ’ve got [freshmen] 
Steve Summerhays and Joey 
Rogers here, and they’ re 
see GOALKEEPER/page 17 


the game that allowed Notre Dame to open its drive on the 50 yard-line. 
“I didn’t really have too much of a thought process,” Jackson said. “I just saw a gap and hit the gap and kept moving. … I was excited. The guys were excited. We got great field position.” 
Jackson is the fourth Irish player to return kicks this season. Sophomore running back Cierre Wood took most of the kicks through the first four games, and averaged 19.9 yards per return. Irish coach Brian Kelly said he and special teams coach Mike Elston decided it was time for a change, and turned to Jackson. 
“I had not cleared that hur­dle in my own mind that I was ready to go in that direc­tion,” Kelly said at his Tuesday press conference. “Once we did, he practiced at it hard on Wednesday and Thursday and was prepared 
see KELLY/page 17 
MEN’S GOLF 
Irish struggle to win 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
Two tournaments into the season, the Irish have yet to taste victory. Both at the College of Charleston Invitational and the Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic, Notre Dame got off to a quick start, holding the lead in both events after the first day. However, the Irish were unable to finish strong in the last round of either tournament, twice finishing as the runner-up. 
After having time to mull over this early trend, Irish coach Jim Kubinski says he isn’t worried. 
“I’ve thought about it a lot,” Kubinski said. “There is a big difference between the two. The first tourna­ment had a different format than usual. At Kiawah, we had three guys not play so well, and we didn’t get a fourth score and that really hurt us.” 
Kubinski also credited the play of the competition, especially at Notre Dame’s home event. 
“At Warren, a lot of guys played well,” Kubinski said. “Shooting 73’s is normally a good thing. Iowa was just playing so well.” 
The Irish head coach also acknowledged some of the mental aspects of the game that may have had his play­ers thinking too much. 
“I think there is something to be said for them thinking too much about how they’re playing in context,” Kubinski said. “They might have been thinking about 
see WINNING/page 16 




