the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students anticipate pep rally venue 
Sudent government leaders urge University to consider alternate locations for next year 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
After multiple pep rallies took place on Irish Green last year, some students say the door remains open for a change of venue. 
Student body president-elect Catherine Soler and vice presi­dent-elect Andrew Bell said they are operating on behalf of the stu­dent body to produce the best football weekend experience pos­sible. 
“We’re working very hard to collaborate with the Athletic Department, the University and Game Day Operations to ensure a pep rally experience that is excit­ing for students and energizing for campus this fall,” Soler said. 
Soler said the venues for pep rallies next year have yet to be determined. 
“As soon as we have solid plans, we’ll let you know,” she said. 
Director of Game Day Operations Mike Seamon said in an e-mail to The Observer that plans for next year’s pep rallies have not been finalized. He said the Athletic Department and Football Program will begin to engage in discussions concerning venue choice with Soler and Bell soon. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said he feels students generally do not support Irish Green as a location for pep rallies. 
“Last year it was evident that students were not going to attend the pep rallies at Irish Green,” he said. 
Schmidt said by not having strong student attendance, the integrity of the pep rally is being compromised. 
“We’re really losing a lot of tra-dition,” he said. “It’s one of our key football traditions that is being lost.” 


Schmidt said while students should be the focal attendees of the pep rallies, they are not demanding total control of the events. 
“There’s several groups you have to cater to, but the number one group should be student body,” he said. “We’re not saying it has to be student only, but it needs to get everyone fired up. It can’t be commercialized. It needs to be authentic.” 
Some students echoed Schmidt’s sentiments. Freshman Patty Walsh said Irish Green was not a conducive environment for student excitement. 
“I thought the pep rallies on Irish Green were disappointing because the student body makes the atmosphere strong,” she said. “The venue should be focused towards the students.” 
Sophomore Ellen Kozelka said the distance of the venue discour­aged the more casual football fan from attending. 
“It’s hard enough to motivate myself to get to pep rallies in gen­eral, let alone drag myself all the way to Irish Green. I’d compro­mise if they were all on South Quad,” she said. 
Freshman Madison Hagen said the commercial atmosphere of the venue also detracted from the true purpose of the event. 
“It was like a carnival with all the tents, food and families,” she said. “It felt more like social entertainment than a tool to invig­orate the student body.” 
Junior Ian Heraty said he felt the pep rallies on Irish Green lacked one of their most crucial elements — noise. 
“Pep rallies aren’t as loud on Irish Green,” he said. 
In order to help enact what seems to be the desire of the majority of students in terms of pep rally venue, Soler and Bell said they are planning to involve as many areas of student govern-
see PEP RALLY/page 4 



Ruof to be next Chief of Staff 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
When the time came for student body president-elect Catherine Soler to select the chief of staff for her term, she said she had no difficulty making her decision. 
Soler named jun­ior Nick Ruof, cur ­rently chair of the Residence Life com ­mittee in Student Senate, as her chief of staff, the No. 3 position in student govern­ment. Soler and student body vice president-elect Andrew Bell take office April 1. 
“Picking Nick was easy,” Soler said. “He helped us a lot with our campaign, and he was always encouraging, enthusiastic and there for us through all the long nights.” 
Soler also said it was important to choose an expe­rienced member of student government who has goals that are similar to those of Soler and Bell. 
In this respect, she said, Ruof was perfect for the job. 
“The chief of staff must be a selfless person because they put just as much work in as the president and vice president without the recog­nition,” Soler said. “He really 

see RUOF/page 4 


Hundreds to go hungry for Haiti 
Students fast to raise money, awareness for disaster-struck country 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
To redraw the Notre Dame community ’s attention to Haiti’s continuing struggles in light of the January 7.0­magnitude earthquake, more than 200 students will par­ticipate in a campus -wide fast starting tonight. 
“The earthquake happened in January ... We want stu­dents to keep up awareness in general, to not forget it. Haitian people need our 


see FAST/page 4 JACLYN ESPINOZA I Observer Graphic 



Malestudentreports recentsexualassault 
genitals, according to the 

Observer Staff Report 
report. A male student reported a The student said the sus­sexual assault that occurred pect did not speak to him. 
on South Quad at about 1 The victim was able to escape 
a.m. Sunday morning, Notre and leave the area. Dame Security Police (NDSP) The suspect was described said in an e-mail to the stu-as a white male and was dent body Monday. about 6-foot-1 or 6-foot-2. He 
The student said he was was wearing a red, hooded-walking near the flag pole on sweatshirt with the hood South Quad when the suspect pulled over his head. rode toward him on a bicycle. Anyone with information The suspect dismounted the about this matter is asked to bike, struck the victim and contact NDSP investigations then touched the victim’s at 574-631-5555. 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER OIT warns against anti-virus scam page 3  ‘Paris Je T’aime’ at LaFortune page 10  Softball to play in Chicago page 20  Viewpoint page 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, March 30, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Dive in and go for it 
Recently I’ve been stressing about what I’m going to do over the summer because, in all reali­ty, I have absolutely no clue. I’ve applied for several internships but I won’t hear 
back from any Tatiana Spragins until May (if I hear back at all), Scene and if I get 
Writer 

something I’d still have to apply (and receive) funding, and if all goes wrong I can’t even ‘just go home’ because I live in Brazil, and tickets can be quite pricey if not bought far in advance. And on top of internship applications, applications for internship fund­ing, the hundreds of thousands of research papers I have to write for each one of my classes, read­ings, exams and work — I’m also out of flex points. Why, oh why, must this all be so difficult? 
Yes, I know this isn’t new to anyone here at Notre Dame and I’m very grateful my problems are good problems. And just when it seems like I’m just whining for no reason my dad e-mails me and asks me if I’ve done my taxes yet. What? Taxes?! What taxes?! I’ve never had to do taxes before! And just like that, I’m being just rushed into real life. 
I’m only a sophomore, so I’ve heard there’s still plenty of time for me to figure out my life. I don’t need to worry about all these things quite yet and thus, my panic attack is unfounded. Except it’s not the lack of time I’m worried about, or even that I don’t know where I’ll be two months from now, but it’s that I don’t know what I’m going to do next. And just like that, it dawned on me. I’ll never know what’s coming next. I’ve been awakened to something that I’ll always have to deal with, which is, what do I do now? 
You’ll always encounter new unfamiliar situations to deal with and, at least what it seems to me is that, you probably won’t ever know what to do but you just have to go for it anyway. That’s part of the fun. All of a sudden every­thing in my life got more serious and my financial issues are more “how will I budget my life in a Manhattan for three months” and less “how much is this really cute dress that I totally don’t need really worth?” And I realized that that’s the way it works. Things are getting more serious, and it’s not just papers and grades I have to worry about; it’s jobs, and rent, and taxes. But there’s good in that because it means I’m adjusting, and the fact that I’m part scared, part excited, means I’m ready for it. 
I guess what I’m saying is I just have to dive in and go for it. Living and learning. Hopefully I’ll get an internship, and if I don’t hopefully I’ll still afford to go home. And with that, may the good times roll… 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Tatiana Spragins at tspragin@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In the March 29 edition of the Observer, the Observer stated that "Will Hudgins gave up a two-run homer in the eighth inning." It should have read "Will Hudgins gave up a solo home run in the eighth inning." The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO SHOULD PERFORM AT THE SUB CONCERT? 





Christina Wheaton  Vince Lau  Hui Hung  Adam Woodruff  Mariel Lee  
sophomore Walsh  sophomore Knott  senior off campus  senior off campus  sophomore Lyons  
“Lady Gaga, obviously.”  “Dashboard Confessional.”  “Beyoncé. Hands down.”  “The Fleet Foxes.”  “Justin Bieber.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Classical pianist Seamus De Barra lectures about Irish composer Aloys Fleischmann at a lecture-recital hosted by the Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies Monday. 
OFFBEAT 
Police: Drunk man tries to revive dead opossum 
PUNXSUTAWNEY, Pa. — Police say they charged a Pennsylvania man with public drunkenness after he was seen trying to resuscitate a long-dead opossum along a highway. State police Trooper Jamie Levier says several wit­nesses saw 55-year-old Donald Wolfe, of Brookville, near the animal Thursday along Route 36 in Oliver Township, about 65 miles northeast of Pittsburgh. 
The trooper says one person saw Wolfe kneel­ing before the animal and gesturing as though he were conducting a seance. He says another saw Wolfe attempting to give mouth-to-mouth resusci­tation. 
Levier says the animal already had been dead a while. 
Man cites boredom after arrest on streaking charge 
KINGSPORT, Tenn. — A man who has been charged with making a naked dash through a Tennessee supermarket told police he was “bored and didn’t have anything else to do.” 
The Kingsport Times-News reports that a man entered an IGA store Friday night, wearing nothing but a face mask, and ran around the aisles. 
A police report says officers found the suspect in the bathroom of a nearby Hardee’s restau­rant. Employees say he entered the fast food out­let wearing nothing but an orange hooded sweat shirt and asked if anyone could lend him clothes. An employee gave him a pair of athletic shorts. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight wednesday thursday 

IN BRIEF 
An exhibition titled “All Art is Propaganda” will be presented today from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. The exhibit will be held in Hesburgh Library’s Special Collection Room 102. Admission is free. 
An exhibit titled “Caroline Chiu: Polaroids as Chinese Ink Painting” will be held today from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. The event will be held in the Milly and Fritz Kaeser Mestrovic Studio Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art. 
Daily Mass will be held at 
11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. today in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
The Creative Writing Program will host a conference titled “The Open Light: A Celebration of Notre Dame Poets,”begin­ning today at 3 p.m. and ending at 9 p.m. All readings will take place in McKenna Hall, Seminar Rooms 100-104. 
The Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering will sponsor a seminar titled “Imaging Microflows Using Molecular Tagging Diagnostics,” beginning today at 3:30 p.m. The seminar will be presented in 138 DeBartolo Hall. 
Campus Ministry will present a campus-wide Stations of the Cross today at 7 p.m. The pro­cession starts from the Grotto. There will be an opportunity for individual confession following Stations in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 9 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
friday saturday 

Atlanta 67 / 40 Boston 51 / 42 Chicago 61 / 48 Denver 72 / 50 Houston 77 / 54 Los Angeles 66 / 51 Minneapolis 73 / 54 New York 51 / 41 Philadelphia 51 / 40 Phoenix 87 / 62 Seattle 51 / 40 St. Louis 69 / 52 Tampa 70 / 50 Washington 51 / 41 

Tuesday, March 30, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
College’s professor namedFulbrightscholar 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Some of us receive new clothes around Christmas time. But visiting assistant mathematics professor Steven Broad received a free trip to research in Brazil. 
Broad was cho­sen as a Fulbright s c h o l a r, which will allow him to travel to Brazil in the summer of 2010 to further his current research in differential geometry. 
“Interestingly enough, I found out I received the grant the day we left for the Christmas holiday,” Broad said. “Right before we were leaving the house, [my wife] went to check the mail and there was a letter from Fulbright. It was paper thin, and that’s supposed to be bad news.” 
But when his wife opened it, she had good news to share with him. 
Broad’s research is in dif­ferential geometry. 
He said the Fulbright is an affordable way to complete his research. 
“I always sort of knew about the Fulbright,” Broad said. “I have a collaborator who works and lives and Brazil and my dissertation advisor is from there origi­nally. We had to figure out how I could go to Brazil for some extended period of time without having to pay for it.” 
As an undergraduate, Broad studied mathematics and physics, and before he got a Ph.D., he wanted to be sure of what he wanted to do. He said he worked as a software engineer in order to give himself time to decide what field he wanted to pur­sue. 


“I was always thinking about how I was going to get back,” Broad said. 
After taking courses in analysis and complex analy­sis, Broad said he found something that interested him. 
“People think of [mathe­maticians] as sort of insensi­tive to beauty and in fact really most of us are all about it,” Broad said. “The reason I study things in mathematics is because to some extent, they are beauti­ful.” 
Broad taught at Notre Dame from 2006-09 before coming to Saint Mary’s in the fall of 2009. 
“This is an extraordinary award and such an honor for Professor Broad and for the department. Having a faculty member of this stature in the math department is evidence of the academic strength of Saint Mary’s College,” Joanne Snow, professor and chair of the mathematics department, said in a press release. 
“Professor Broad is an asset to the College due to his scholarly excellence as well his commitment to the mission of Saint Mary’s College, which includes help­ing women to develop their talents and prepare them to make a difference in the world,” Snow said. 
After completing his time in Brazil, Broad will bring the information back to the United States and share what he has learned with the cam­pus community. 
“Here at Saint Mary’s, we care very much about the power and beauty of mathe­matics,” Broad said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
OIT warns of anti-virus scam 

By CAITLYN KALSCHEUR 
News Writer 
Computer users beware — the Office of Information Technologies (OIT) has launched a campaign to warn students against fake anti-virus scams that are causing problems on comput­ers across campus. 
“Fake anti-virus attacks are when a pop-up from an unknown anti-virus program occurs and tells the user that it has discov­ered malware and needs to clear your computer of a potential virus,” David Seidl, Information Security Program manager, said. 
But the trick is that the anti-virus is actually a virus itself that aims at getting credit card infor­mation from unsuspecting users, he said. 
“What happens is that the user clicks on the pop-up and allows the virus to install itself on their computer,” Seidl said. “Once the virus is installed, it says it found malware on your computer and that you must pay a certain amount of money to get rid of it. Then, it takes your credit card information. 
“These programs prey on a user’s fear they’re infected.” 
Seidl said OIT launched to pro­gram to benefit students and fac­ulty. 
“The first thing is to be aware,” Seidl said. “The pop-up will look like it’s from your anti-virus soft­ware, but it’s not. It will often have a name like, ‘Anti-virus 2010’ or something generic.” 
Once someone identifies the pop-up as a virus, there is a sim­ple step they can take to work against it, he said. 
“The first thing a user should do once they have identified the potential attack is to hit ‘con­trol+alt+delete’ and then kill their browser,” he said. “The entire box is a clickable window, so if the user hits anywhere in the pop-up, the program will open and begin installing.” 
Seidl said students can also decrease their chances of being attacked by having a safe anti-virus program, making sure their current browser and operating systems are up-to-date and prac­ticing safe browsing habits. 
“OIT provides a free anti-virus program, available on the Web site,” Seidl said. “We have done technical protections, but the best protection is to get users not to click on the fake anti-virus pop­ups.” 
Seidl said OIT launched the campaign in response to an increase in Help Desk calls regarding viruses. 
“It has definitely been showing up more, and Help Desk calls have gone up recently,” Seidl said. “Every year for the past three years, new versions of this have come out. As we see new versions and increased infections, we want to be sure people deal with it.” 
Seidl said his top suggestion for computer safety is to be aware of the threats that exist. 
“Knowing the name of your anti-virus software and the risk of the sites you visit is impor­tant,” he said. 
He also suggested updating the computer regularly and main­taining confidentiality. 
“Do all updates,” Seidl said. “Most people I know click ‘ignore’ when the updating windows come up, but more and more attacks are happening on outdat­ed browsers. 
“Last, never provide personal information where you shouldn’t. If you don’t provide that informa­tion, they can’t get it. For exam­ple, the Help Desk would never ask for your password, and no legitimate site should ask for a password unless you’re logging in.” 
Seidl encouraged students to visit secure.nd.edu/fakeav for more information on fake anti-virus scams and he advised any students with questions or con­cerns to go to the OIT Web site or the OIT Help Desk. 
Contact Caitlyn Kalscheur at ckalsche@nd.edu 


CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Membersdiscussdiscipline,rectors’role 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
NewsWriter 
Campus Life Council (CLC) passed a recommendation to keep discipline at the lowest adminis­trative level, particularly at the level of the rector, whenever pos­sible, at its meeting Monday. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said the overall message of the recommendation is “greater communication and greater con­sultation with the rectors.” 
The Council drafted this recom­mendation in order to prevent a student from acquiring an unnec­essary disciplinary record that could hurt his or her applications to post-graduate school. Under this policy, a rector could handle a first-time alcohol violation or simi­lar offense without creating a record for the student in the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH). 
input of rectors when making dis­ciplinary decisions,” the resolution said. 
“One of the big words we want­ed to focus on was ‘consult,’” Senate representative Elise Jordan said. 
This distinction includes the rec­tors in the disciplinary process, but also leaves ORLH with flexibil­ity and the power to have the final say, said Jordan. 
CLC members were concerned in particular with first-time alco­hol offenses that occur off-campus or in an area outside a residence hall, such as the Notre Dame Stadium. 
“I think that [a rector] should be able to address a first-time offense even if it happens off-cam­pus,” Schmidt said. 
The Council plans to recom­mend that ORLH consult the stu­dent’s rector before opening up a disciplinary record when first-time alcohol violations occur off-rectors do not always want con­trol over, but sometimes would like to handle themselves,” stu­dent body vice president Cynthia Weber said. 
Judicial Council President Ian Secviar said the conversation between a rector and a student is “a very good pastoral moment,” which should emphasized. 
At previous meetings, CLC members objected to creating a policy that would be too subjec­tive. The rectors on the Council voiced concerns with the recom­mendation again Monday. 
“This policy assumes that the rector stays and remains the rec­tor,” Keough Hall rector Father Pete McCormick said. 
If a new rector was placed in a dorm, the history between the previous rector and the members of that dorm could be lost, he said. 
“It becomes very difficult and very subjective when every single issue is at the lowest administra-
The Council recommended “the  campus or outside a residence  tive level,” Schmidt said.  
Office of Student Affairs and  hall.  
ORLH consult the rectors and pro­ “The whole idea of an off-cam- Contact Megan Doyle at  
vide greater attentiveness to the  pus violation is something that the  mdoyle11@nd.edu  


page 4 The Observer  NEWS Tuesday, March 30, 2010 
Ruof 
continued from page 1 
has a great vision of what student government should be, so we ’re very happy about his passion for helping us out and being involved.” 
Ruof, a chemical engineer­ing major from Carroll Hall, served as Carroll’s senator his sophomore and junior years “to meet people and effect change on campus,” he said. 
Soler said Ruof will also bring a unique perspective to a student gov­ernment that the administration.” 
In addition to serving as the third-highest ranking mem­ber of student government and as chief adviser to Soler and Bell, he will also oversee all 10 student government committees and the newly revamped freshman leader­ship program, First Undergraduate Experience in Leadership (FUEL), which aims to get more freshmen involved in student govern­ment. 
Ruof said he will also take on special interests and plans to generate new ideas for improving campus life, such as installing lights on the 

will be led by  “The fact that Nick will  McGlinn Fields  
t w o j u n i o r s next year. “ T h e f a c t  be a senior living off campus next year is  a n d s e l l i n g dorm apparel in t h e H a m m e s  
that Nick will  really important for  N o t r e  D a m e  
b e a s e n i o r l i v i n g o f f c a m p u s n e x t  connecting with other off-campus seniors.”  Bookstore. “We are also focusing on the  
year is really  M u l t i c u l t u r a l  
important for  Catherine Soler  A  f  f  a  i  r  s  
c o n n e c t i n g w i t h o t h e r o f f -c a m p u s  student body president-elect  C o m m i t t e e t o increase aware­ness of diversi­ 

seniors,” Soler said. “It really adds another dimension to our leadership.” 
Ruof similarly emphasized his interest in improving relations between student government, the University and students living off cam­pus. 
“I’ll be working with the Northeast Neighborhood Council because I want to be a part of the neighborhood,” Ruof said. “It’s important for off-campus students to have someone who is a member of student government living off campus who has an ear with 
Fast 
continued from page 1 
help, ” Noelle Hilmer, the event’s organizer, said. “It’s easy to give a donation and forget about it. We want the students to fast in solidarity with our Haitain brothers and sisters.” 
The fast will start at 6 p.m. tonight with a prayer service in Ryan Hall, and it will end with a Mass in Dillon Hall Wednesday at 6 p.m., Hilmer said. 
“Right now, we have about 230 students signed up,” she said. 
Fast participant Genie Alfonzo, a junior, said the fast is an excellent way for students to more closely relate to a disaster — one that most of the Notre Dame community is removed from, geographically and other ­wise. 
“It lets us reflect and think about, for a day, how the earthquake has affected peo­ple’s lives,” Alfonzo said. “It’s a great way to reflect on how privileged we are here at Notre Dame, and the money that we raise can really make a difference in the lives of 
ty and change its perceptions on campus,” Ruof said. “[Outgoing com­mittee chair] Nika Giger has done a great job, so we want to continue her good work next year.” 
Ruof’s varied goals, experi­ence and seniority have Soler and Bell looking forward to a successful term next year. 
“We’re extremely confident in his abilities to carry out 
our platform,” Soler said. “We’re really excited because he’s done a great job so far.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
these people.” 
Hilmer said some students will be abstaining from other activities. 
“I’d say the majority [of students] are abstaining from food but there are a few ... abstaining from other things,” she said. “Facebook, Internet, their phone, things like that.” 
In addition to individual participants’ collections, an online donation site has been established. 
“We ’re collecting money Tuesday and Wednesday, and we’ll be collecting through April. We know our shopND link has already gotten about $1,200,” Hilmer said. 
Students who wish to sign up can go to w w w. f a s t 4 H a i t i N D . c o m , where they can also donate money, she said. 
The fast is supported by several campus organiza ­tions. The main sponsor, ND­8, is a student club that works against poverty. The Progressive Student Alliance, Human Rights ND and the Center for Social Concerns also are supporting the fast, Hilmer said. 
Contact John Cameron jcamero2@nd.edu 
Pep rally 
continued from page 1 
ment as possible. 
“This is going to be an effort not just of our branch of stu­dent government, but also Hall President’s Council which has traditionally planned pep ral­lies,” Soler said. 
Bell also said no matter what happens, the duo hopes to host an event similar to the student-only pep rally that took place before the Michigan away game last year. 
“One of our main goals is to host a student-only sendoff pep rally,” he said. “We really feel this environment is exciting for students and players alike, and we hope to experience it again.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 

AFGHANISTAN 
Obama seeks balance with Karzai 
Associated Press
 KABUL — President Barack Obama’s tone in Kabul was all business as he hammered home his theme that the Afghans need to do more to fight corruption and reform government to defeat the Taliban. 
The arm’s-length approach was the administration’s latest attempt to strike the right bal­ance in dealing with President Hamid Karzai. Although the 
U.S. believes Karzai is a flawed leader, it cannot afford to alienate him because he is key to a successful American exit from the war. 
Former President George W. Bush established a more per­sonal relationship with Karzai. In contrast, Obama was criti­cal of Karzai from the start, stating last December when he announced his troop surge that “the days of providing a blank check are over.” 
Neither strategy worked well. Bush’s approach failed to push Karzai toward more effective governance. Obama’s criticism angered Karzai, feeding fears that the Americans were trying to undermine him. The Afghan president’s visits in recent weeks to neighboring China and Iran show that he has options for support from other countries. 
Such blunt criticism from the U.S. now appears more measured. 
A day after the visit, Karzai’s spokesman, Waheed Omar, described the two leaders’ pri­vate meeting as cordial and dismissed reports that Obama flew to Kabul on Sunday to order a recalcitrant Karzai to get his government in line. 
“Our relationship with the United States has gone through ups and downs,” Omar said Monday. “At this point in time, there are more ups than downs. We have cer­tain views about certain issues and they have certain views about certain issues. Sometimes we agree and sometimes we don’t.” 
The new tone is only part of the administration’s evolving approach toward Kabul. The 
U.S. is now seeking to deal with the broader Afghan lead­ership — not just Karzai. 
It was the White House’s insistence that Karzai’s Cabinet later join the talks over a dinner of kebabs and rice that pointed to Obama’s strategy of raising the clout of ministers favored by the West as a way to promote reform. 
Ashraf Ghani, a respected former finance minister and World Bank official, described the meeting with the Cabinet and Afghan dignitaries as “very courteous and busi­nesslike.” 
“A foundation for strategic cooperation between the two countries has been clearly laid through this visit,” Ghani said. 
Western diplomats briefed on the meetings said Obama worked to convince the Afghan officials that Afghanistan can count on a long-term commitment from the U.S. despite the president’s desire to start withdrawing American troops in July 2011 
— just 16 months from now. They said Obama also stressed that while there’s been some progress, more work is need­ed to set up better local, provincial and central govern­ments run by people picked for competence, not cronyism. 
That’s a message Afghanistan’s small, urban, political class expected the American president to deliver. Many of them are also frus­trated by the failures of their own government. 
“I’m sure he gave a very, very tough message, strong message to President Karzai that the U.S. could not tolerate another dysfunctional govern­ment for the next five years and it’s time for President Karzai to act,” said Haroon Mir, director of Afghanistan’s Center for Research and Policy Studies. “I think it was a message for Afghans that the U.S will remain committed to Afghanistan.” 
Obama might not be happy with the pace of progress in Afghanistan, but he also can’t be seen as sending U.S. troops to fight for a corrupt govern­ment. Public approval for his war strategy is on the rise, and Obama needs to maintain domestic support for the war at a time when the number of 
U.S. troops killed in Afghanistan has roughly dou­bled in the first three months of this year, compared to the same period last year. 
The latest Associated Press-GfK poll at the beginning of March found that 57 percent of Americans surveyed approved of Obama’s handling of the war compared with 49 percent two months earlier. 
While Obama pressed the Afghans to battle graft, those briefed on the meeting said Karzai’s Cabinet ministers told the president that they wanted to control more of the billions in international aid pouring into the country and direct the money to priority projects set by Afghanistan, not foreign capitals. 
The Karzai government has long maintained that the U.S. and other donors must share the blame for the lack of improvement in the daily lives of Afghans since foreigners control the purse strings. 


World & Nation 
Tuesday, March 30, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Rio Tinto workers face jail time 
SHANGHAI — Unexpectedly harsh jail sen­tences of seven to 14 years for four Rio Tinto employees charged with taking bribes and stealing commercial secrets could augur tougher times for foreign companies and errant executives in China’s unruly business world. 
Seeking to protect its business ties from what it termed the men’s “deplorable behav­ior,” the mining giant promptly fired all four. 
The court’s rulings against Australian citi­zen Stern Hu, former manager of Rio Tinto’s iron ore business in China, and three Chinese co-workers suggest authorities are taking a sterner stance toward foreign com­panies caught violating the country’s often selectively enforced corruption code. 
Korean ship explodes off coast 
SEOUL, South Korea — A naval mine dis­patched from North Korea may have struck the South Korean warship that exploded and sank near the Koreas’ disputed sea border, the defense minister told lawmakers Monday, laying out several scenarios for the maritime disaster. 
Defense Minister Kim Tae-young said there was no sign of a direct attack from rival North Korea, but military authorities have not ruled out North Korean involvement in the sinking of the Cheonan late Friday night. 
An explosion ripped the 1,200-ton ship apart during a routine patrol mission near Baengnyeong Island west of the peninsula. Fifty-eight crew members, including the captain, were plucked to safety; 46 remain missing. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Kandahar offensive to begin in June 
WASHINGTON — NATO forces in June will make a long-planned assault on the Taliban’s spiritual home in the southern Afghan city of Kandahar, a senior military official said Monday. 
The goal is to rid the city of Taliban forces before the Muslim holy month of Ramadan begins in August, according to the official. 
U.S. officials have previously disclosed plans for a NATO-led offensive in the area this year, but have not said when it might happen. The two-month offensive will be a major test of President Barack Obama’s new strategy in Afghanistan and a bellwether of the war in general. 
Christian group accused of plot 
DETROIT — Nine alleged members of a Christian militia group that was girding for bat­tle with the Antichrist were charged Monday with plotting to kill a police officer and slaughter scores more by bombing the funeral — all in hopes of touching off an uprising against the 
U.S. government. 

Seven men and one woman believed to be part of the Michigan-based Hutaree were arrested over the weekend in raids in Michigan, Indiana and Ohio, and another was still being sought. Authorities blocked off a rural area Monday evening about 30 miles from the site of Saturday’s raid near Adrian but wouldn’t say who they were searching for or whether the search was related to the weekend raids. 
FBI agents moved quickly against the group because its members were planning an attack sometime in April, prosecutors said. Authorities seized guns in the raids but would not say whether they found any explosives. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Farmers contribute to poverty relief 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. — A Bloomington food bank has received a donation of more than 60,000 eggs as part of a national push to assist people struggling with poverty. 
Some of Indiana’s egg farmers donated 5,400 cartons containing 64,800 Grade A, extra-large eggs earlier this month to the Hoosier Hills Food Bank. 
Since then, more than half of the eggs have been snapped up by families in need. 
Food bank executive director Julio Alonso says eggs aren’t the kind of food that stays on the Bloomington-based food bank’s shelves for very long. 
RUSSIA 
Moscow bombings kill dozens 
Two female suicide bombers affiliated with al-Qaida explode in crowded subway 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW — Terror  
returned to the heart of  
Russia, with two deadly  
suicide bombings on the  
Moscow subway at rush  
hour, including an attack at  
the station beneath the  
headquarters of the secret  
police.  
At least 38 people were  
killed and more than 60  
wounded in Monday morn­ 
ing’s blasts, the first such  
attacks in Moscow in six  
years.  
Russian police have  
killed several Islamic mili­ 
tant leaders in the North  
Caucasus recently, includ­ 
ing one last week in the  
K a b a r d i n o -B a l k a r i y a  
region, which raised fears  
of retaliatory strikes and  
escalating bloodshed by  
the militants.  
As smoke billowed  
through the subway tun­ 
nels not far from the  
Kremlin and dazed sur­ 
vivors streamed out of the  
vast transportation system,  
al-Qaida-affiliated Web  
sites were abuzz with cele­ 
bration of the attacks by  
the two female suicide  
bombers.  
The bombings showed AP  
that the beleaguered rebels A man places a candle in memory of the subway blasts’ victims at the Lubyanka Subway  
are still strong enough to station, which was earlier hit by an explosion Monday, killing at least 38.  
inflict harm on an increas­ 
ingly assertive Russia, and  against terrorism unswerv- Militants in the Caucasus  who headed the agency  
they followed a warning  ingly and to the end,”  have declared the creation  before his election as presi­ 
last month from Chechen  Medvedev said.  of an Islamic state as their  dent in 2000.  
rebel leader Doku Umarov  Umarov, the Chechen  top goal. Radical Islamic  About 45 minutes later, a  
that “the war is coming to  rebel leader, has relied on  sects have spread through- second blast hit the Park  
their cities.”  al-Qaida’s financial support  out the Caucasus region  Kultury station on the  
Prime Minister Vladimir  and has several al-Qaida  and parts of Russia as well,  same subway line, which is  
Putin, who built much of  emissaries in his  with religious schools set  near renowned Gorky  
his political capital by  entourage, said Alexander  up. In Chechnya, Kremlin- Park. In both cases, the  
directing a fierce war  Ignatenko, the head of the  backed strongman Ramzan  bombs were detonated as  
against Chechen sepa- independent Moscow- Kadyrov has conducted a  the trains pulled into the  
ratists a decade ago, prom- based Institute for Religion  campaign to impose  stations and the doors  
ised to track down and kill  and Politics, who has close- Islamic values in an effort  were opening.  
the organizers of what he  ly followed the Islamic  to blunt the appeal of hard­ “I was getting off the  
called a “disgusting” crime.  insurgency in the  line Islamic separatists.  train when I heard the  
“The terrorists will be  Caucasus.  Monday’s first explosion  sound of an explosion and  
destroyed,” he said on  “Al-Qaida has established  took place just before 8  saw clouds of smoke,” said  
national television.  a presence in the North  a.m. at the Lubyanka sta- Yegor Barbatunov, 29.  
In a televised meeting  Caucasus, like they did in  tion in central Moscow,  “The (Park Kultury) station  
with President Dmitry  Afghanistan, Pakistan,  beneath the notorious  was jammed with people  
Medvedev, Federal Security  Iraq, Somalia and Europe,”  headquarters of the  trying to get out, but there  
Service head Alexander  Ignatenko told The  Federal Security Service or  was no panic. I saw a  
Bortnikov said the remains  Associated Press. The mili- FSB, the KGB’s main suc­ young man walking past,  
of the two bombers pointed  tants’ links with al-Qaida  cessor agency. The FSB is a  blood pouring off his head  
to a Caucasus connection.  also are recognized by  symbol of power under  and neck and trickling to  
“We will continue the fight  other experts on terrorism.  Putin, a former KGB officer  the floor.”  

Teens accused of bullying girl to suicide 
bullying, including two teen boys “The investigation revealed relentless 
Associated Press 
charged with statutory rape and a clique activity directed toward Phoebe, 
NORTHAMPTON, Mass. — Insults and of girls charged with stalking, criminal designed to humiliate her and to make it threats followed 15-year-old Phoebe harassment and violating Phoebe’s civil impossible for her to remain at school,” Prince almost from her first day at South rights. Scheibel said. “The bullying, for her, Hadley High School, targeting the Irish School officials won’t be charged, even became intolerable.” immigrant in the halls, library and in though authorities say they knew about Scheibel said the case is still under vicious cell phone text messages. the bullying and that Phoebe’s mother investigation and that one other person 
Phoebe, ostracized for having a brief brought her concerns to at least two of could be charged. It wasn’t immediately relationship with a popular boy, reached them. known Monday whether the teens who her breaking point and hanged herself Northwestern District Attorney have been charged have attorneys. 
after one particularly hellish day in Elizabeth Scheibel, who announced the Scheibel said the harassment began in January — a day that, according to offi-charges Monday, said the events before September, occurring primarily in school cials, included being hounded with slurs Phoebe’s death on Jan. 14 were “the cul-and in person, although some of it sur­and pelted with a beverage container as mination of a nearly three-month cam-faced on Facebook and in other electron-she walked home from school. paign of verbally assaultive behavior and ic forms. At least four students and two 
Now, nine teenagers face charges in threats of physical harm” widely known faculty members intervened to try to stop what a prosecutor called “unrelenting” among the student body. it or report it to administrators, she said. 

page 6 The Observer  NEWS Tuesday, March 30, 2010 
French president, first lady take on New York 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — With a lectern flown in from France and his fingers firmly entwined with those of his smiling wife, French President Nicolas Sarkozy made a splash Monday even before he opened his mouth for a no-holds-barred speech at Columbia University. 
Amid blogger reports of strains in their marriage, Sarkozy and ex-supermodel Carla Bruni -Sarkozy made every effort to appear the happy couple, walking closely together and clasping hands as they mounted a staircase into an auditorium packed with students, faculty and other spectators. 
The French first lady, ele­gant in a swept-up chignon and form-fitting black top with gray skirt, at times threatened to upstage her husband, who scolded his American hosts about health care and for not paying enough attention to the rest of the world. 
French Web sites immedi­ately picked up on the mes­sage. “Carla Bruni et Nicolas Sarkozy amoureux a New York” read a headline on the online site of entertainment magazine Voici, which men­tioned the “electric atmos­phere” of the Big Apple and its effects on the French pres­idential couple. 
Sarkozy is in hot water at home. His poll ratings are at record lows of around 30 per­cent and there are widening cracks in his conservative party. In New York, though, he basked in the rapt atten­tion of hundreds of Columbia students and even jettisoned a prepared speech. 
“Speeches kill off creativi­ty,” he said. “I’m going to speak from the heart.” 
And he did. 
“Welcome to the club of states who don’t turn their back on the sick and the poor,” Sarkozy said, referring to the U.S. health care over­haul signed by President Barack Obama last week. 
From the European per ­spective, he said, “when we look at the American debate on reforming health care, it’s difficult to believe.” 
“The very fact that there should have been such a vio­lent debate simply on the fact that the poorest of Americans should not be left out in the streets without a cent to look after them ... is something astonishing to us.” 
Then to hearty applause, he added: “If you come to France and something happens to you, you won’t be asked for your credit card before you’re rushed to the hospital.” 
Despite the strident words, the mood was celebratory — and Bruni-Sarkozy held the spotlight, with more than 100 members of the media focus­ing on her every move. 
Columbia President Lee Bollinger introduced Sarkozy, but before the French leader could utter a single word, Bollinger asked the audience to give the French first lady “a special welcome.” 
Hundreds of students, pro­fessors and members of the public obliged, giving Bruni-Sarkozy a rousing ovation, which she acknowledged by rising, turning toward the audience and smiling. 
She then listened to her husband speak, nodding sup­portively in the front row as Sarkozy called on the audi­ence to “reflect on what it means to be the world’s No. 1 power.” 
“The world needs an open America, a generous America, an America that shows the way, an America that listens,” he said, calling on the U.S. to champion firm regulations of financial sys­tems, from tax havens to hedge funds. 
Columbia organizers said the French provided their own white lectern and light gray rug for the speech, and also requested a special espresso machine. 
The podium and rug com­plemented the color-coordi­nated French first couple — including his black suit and white tie and her wraparound black top, gray skirt and black-and-white umbrella. 
In a change from the usual protocol, Sarkozy entered the Low Library by walking up the middle of the grand stair­case that faces the Columbia campus, instead of from behind a gold curtain like most other speakers. 
After arriving in New York on Sunday, the presidential couple left their hotel with arms wrapped around one another, smiling for cameras and kissing before going to lunch at the Boathouse restaurant in Central Park with Sarkozy’s son from his second marriage, 12-year-old Louis, who goes to school in New York. 
After meeting later Monday with U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, Sarkozy and the first lady will join the Obamas for a private dinner in the White House on Tuesday. 
Victims criticize Church 

Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE — A man who says he was among some 200 deaf boys allegedly molested by a priest in Wisconsin said Monday the Vatican’s defensive responses to revelations about the case make him feel like he did when he was 12, when no one would listen to him about the abuse. 
Arthur Budzinski, 61, said at a news conference outside the Cathedral of St. John the Evangelist that Pope Benedict XVI is trying to protect himself against criticism of his handling of the Wisconsin case against the Rev. Lawrence Murphy. Murphy was accused of molest­ing some 200 boys at the St. John’s School for the Deaf out­side Milwaukee from 1950­1975. He never was defrocked. 
“It’s 2010. I’m not trying to hurt the pope,” Budzinski said. “The pope should do something. I’m just telling my story. That’s all I’m doing,” said his 26-year­old daughter Gigi Budzinski, who interpreted his sign lan­guage. 
Top Catholic officials are rub­bing salt “into the already deep wounds of those who have been victimized and disillusioned by the Catholic church” by criticiz­ing those speaking out about the Vatican, said Mary Guentner, a spokeswoman for the Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests. 
Guentner, who says she was abused by a nun in a different school, said victims should be praised, thanked and welcomed but instead have been vilified, mischaracterized and insulted for speaking out. 
“It’s ludicrous to claim that these hundreds of once-trust­ing, devout Catholics are some­how conspiring to hurt the world’s most powerful religious figure,” she said. 
Recently released documents showed a Vatican office led by the pope, then Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, halted a church trial against Murphy. Ratzinger’s deputy, Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone, shut the process down after Murphy wrote Ratzinger a letter saying he had repented, was old and ailing, and that the case’s statute of limitations had run out. Bertone now serves as the Vatican’s secretary of state. 
The Vatican has said the case only reached the Vatican in 1996, that Murphy died two years later, and that there was nothing in the church’s handling of the matter that precluded any civil action from being taken against him. 
Benedict made no direct men­tion of the scandal in his Palm Sunday homily, but said Jesus Christ guides the faithful “toward the courage that does­n’t let us be intimidated by the chatting of dominant opinions, toward patience that supports others.” 
The Vatican newspaper recently said there was a “clear and despicable intention” to strike at Benedict “at any cost.” 
Several victims held signs at the Monday news conference that read “Stop attacking us!” and “I’m not despicable.” 
Guentner said when the church attacks victims’ motives, it intimidates other victims and witnesses whose information might protect other children. She said she wants Milwaukee Archbishop Jerome Listecki to “ask the pope to be transparent, to disclose any involvement in any sexual abuse cases and to stop insulting victims,” she said. 
She also responded to com­ments made Sunday by former Milwaukee Archbishop Timothy Dolan, who is currently the New York Archbishop. He said the pope was suffering some of the same unjust accusations once faced by Jesus. 
“(It) seems a little extreme to me,” she said. “I think that seems a little extreme to all of us. We are now feeling perse­cuted from the response of the Vatican.” 
East bracing for more flooding 


Associated Press 
BOSTON — Nervous residents along the sodden East Coast watched rivers rise Monday as they braced for a new round of flooding — and the wettest March on record in some areas. 
The National Weather Service posted flood warnings and advisories from Maine to the Carolinas as forecasts called for as much as 5 to 7 inches of rain over the next three days. The storm threatened to push already swollen rivers over their banks and add to the mis­ery of homeowners still strug­gling to bail out flooded base­ments from other recent storms in the Northeast. 
Ted Les, 76, and his wife, Blanche, 69, worried what would happen if rains caused any more damage to their home of 40 years in Clinton, Mass. 
In the event of more damage, “we can’t live here anymore,” Les said. “We don’t know where we are going to go.” 
Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick declared a state of emergency Monday and mobi­lized as many as 1,000 National Guardsmen to assist in the event of major flooding. 
“Residents of flood zones should closely monitor the storm and prepare for the pos­sibility of evacuating quickly,” should waters rise, Patrick said. 
Meteorologists warned of a possible “life-threatening” situ­ation along the Pawtuxet River in Rhode Island, which reached flood stage Monday night, with heavy flooding by Tuesday afternoon. 
“We have a very serious problem. This is turning out to be a nightmare,” said Steve Kass, spokesman for the Rhode Island Emergency Management Agency. 
The storm hit as the Northeast continued to recover from a storm March 13-15 that dropped as much as much as 10 inches of rain, causing sev­eral rivers to rise and flooding basements throughout the region. 
The rainiest March on record in Boston was 1953, when 11 inches fell during the month; nearly 10 inches had already fallen before the start of the lat­est storm. 
New York City was within 3 inches of the March record of 
10.54 inches set in 1983, and forecasters said the storm could easily eclipse that mark. 
“Our ground is so wet it’s like pouring water into an already saturated sponge,” said Tony Sutton, commissioner of Emergency Services for Westchester County, N.Y., north of the city. “Thank God we’re not expecting real strong winds. That’s a break.” 
The Observer 
Business

Tuesday, March 30, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Judge strikes down gene patents 
NEW YORK — In a ruling with potentially far-reaching implications for the patenting of human genes, a judge on Monday struck down a company’s patents on two genes linked to an increased risk of breast and ovarian cancer. 
The decision by U.S. District Judge Robert Sweet challenging whether anyone can hold patents on human genes was expected to have broad implications for the biotechnology indus­try and genetics-based medical research. 
Sweet said he invalidated the patents because DNA’s existence in an isolated form does not alter the fundamental quality of DNA as it exists in the body nor the information it encodes. 
He rejected arguments that it was acceptable to grant patents on DNA sequences as long as they are claimed in the form of “isolated DNA.” 
“Many, however, including scientists in the fields of molecular biology and genomics, have considered this practice a ‘lawyer’s trick’ that circumvents the prohibitions on the direct patenting of the DNA in our bodies but which, in practice, reaches the same result,” he said. 
The judge said his findings were consistent with Supreme Court rulings that have estab­lished that purifying a product of nature does not mean it can be patented. 
He said the company deserved praise for what is “unquestionably a valuable scientific achieve­ment,” but not a patent because the “isolated DNA is not markedly different from native DNA as it exists in nature.” 
Ericsson signs with China Mobile 
STOCKHOLM — Swedish wireless equip­ment maker L.M. Ericsson AB says it has signed deals worth $1.8 billion with Chinese operators China Mobile and China Unicom. 
Ericsson says it signed a $1 billion agree­ment Monday to provide a radio access net­work and technology to China Mobile, the world’s largest phone company by sub­scribers. 
The new technology will boost the capaci­ty of the company’s network and develop it into a so-called internet protocol network. 
Ericsson also signed a $800 million con­tract to provide a faster, third-generation network to China’s no. 2 mobile company, China Unicom. 
Both contracts will be implemented this year. 
IBM exec pleads guilty to fraud 
Moffat involved in insider trading case, faces possibility of six months in prison 
Associated Press  
NEW YORK — A former  
IBM senior executive  
pleaded guilty Monday to  
federal charges arising  
from what prosecutors call  
the largest insider trading  
case in hedge fund history.  
Robert Moffat, 53, of  
Ridgefield, Conn., pleaded  
guilty to conspiracy to  
commit securities fraud  
and securities fraud,  
charges which carry a  
potential penalty of 25  
years in prison.  
A plea agreement,  
though, contained lan- 
guage indicating he may  
end up serving six months  
in prison or less.  
Moffat, once considered  
a candidate for chief exec­ 
utive officer at IBM, was  
considered the highest  
level executive arrested in  
a case that resulted in 21  
arrests. He is the 11th  
person to plead guilty. He  
remained free on $2 mil­ 
lion bail. Sentencing was  
set for July 26. His  
lawyers said he was not  
cooperating with the gov­ 
ernment’s probe.  
During a hearing in U.S.  
District Court in  
Manhattan, Moffat told the AP  
magistrate in a shaky Former senior vice present of IBM Robert Moffat exits Manhattan Federal Court Monday.  
voice that he provided Moffat pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit securities fraud and securities fraud.  
inside information  
between August and  with inside information he  trial be severed from the  Chiesi and Rajaratnam  
October 2008 to Danielle  gave out and he received  trial of Galleon Group  were heard on a govern- 
Chiesi, a friend and a co- no money or other finan­ founder Raj Rajaratnam,  ment wiretap of a Sept.  
defendant in the case. At  cial benefit in return.  52. He too has denied  26, 2008, phone conversa­ 
the time, Moffat was sen­ “Mr. Moffat deeply  securities fraud charges  tion discussing whether  
ior vice president and  regrets his conduct and is  that were first brought in  Moffat should move from  
group executive at  deeply sorry for the  October.  IBM to a different technol- 
International Business  embarassment his conduct  Once described as one of  ogy company to aid the  
Machines Corp.’s Systems  has caused to his family  wealthiest men in the  scheme, according to the  
and Technology Group.  and to his former employ- United States, Rajaratnam  papers.  
“I disclosed this informa­ er, IBM,” the statement  remains free on $100 mil­ “Put him in some com­ 
tion in this case intention- said.  lion bail. Charges against  pany where we can trade  
ally and I knew that what I  Chiesi, 44, of Manhattan  him carry a potential  well,” Rajaratnam was  
was doing was wrong,” he  has pleaded not guilty to  penalty of up to 185 years  quoted in the court papers  
said.  charges in the insider  in prison.  as saying.  
After the plea, Moffat’s  trading scheme that could  Prosecutors say  The complaint said  
lawyer, Kerry Andrew  carry a potential penalty  Rajaratnam may have  Chiesi replied: “I know, I  
Lawrence, released a  of up to 155 years in  made more than $50 mil- know. I’m thinking that  
statement saying his client  prison. Chiesi worked for  lion through improper  too. Or just keep him at  
“accepted responsibility  New Castle, the equity  securities trades.  IBM, you know, because  
for his conduct in improp­ hedge fund group of Bear  In court papers filed in  this guy is giving me more  
erly disclosing confidential  Stearns Asset  the case, prosecutors pro- information. ... I’d like to  
information” to Chiesi.  Management Inc. that had  vided excerpts of tran- keep him at IBM right now  
The lawyer wrote that  assets worth about $1 bil­ scripts of telephone con- because that’s a very pow- 
Moffat never engaged in  lion under management.  versations between Chiesi  erful place for him. For us,  
any trading in connection  She has asked that her  and Rajaratnam.  too.”  

ENGLAND 
Euro strengthens; world markets rise 
Associated Press 
LONDON — World markets most­ly rose and the euro strengthened Monday in the wake of last week’s announcement of a eurozone aid plan for Greece as well as strong consumer spending figures in the U.S. 
The 16-country common curren­cy has been the main beneficiary of the support program for Greece announced at an EU summit Thursday night, while stock gains have been more modest. Greek borrowing rates, meanwhile, showed little improvement. 
The euro was at $1.3448 in European morning trade Monday, up from $1.3401 late Friday in New York. On Thursday it had hit a 10-month low below $1.33. 
Germany’s DAX rose 0.4 percent to 6,142.78, while Britain’s FTSE 100 benchmark index was down 
0.1 percent at 5,696.77 and France ’s CAC -40 was flat at 3,986.25. 
After gains in Asia, Wall Street also rose on the open. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 
0.4 percent at 10,894.72 and the Standard & Poor’s 500 index rose 
0.5 percent to 1,172.93. 
U.S. markets were given a boost by data showing consumer spend­ing rose 0.3 percent in February, a fifth consecutive monthly rise. The increase buoyed hopes that house­holds are regaining confidence — consumer spending accounts for the largest portion of activity in the world’s largest economy. 
In Europe, investors kept their eyes on Greece’s debt crisis, with the good news of a bailout plan announced last week offset by cau­tion about the details. 
“Last week’s agreement on an aid package to Greece helped return a semblance of confidence to markets and the euro,” said Mitul Kotecha, analyst at Credit Agricole CIB. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 8 Tuesday, March 30, 2010 
THE OBSERVER Reform vs. the Constitution 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
Now that the Democrats have managed to wheedle, bribe, cajole, threaten and otherwise cram their health care package through Congress and into the law books, popular resistance and political conse­quences be damned, it may seem like the vicious battle has finally reached a conclusion. 
But as defenders of liberty across the country have declared, the war is far from over. Christie Already, over 30 Pesavento states have taken 

Right-Winging 
steps to challenge 
It
various aspects of the law, the most controversial of which is the individual mandate that requires all Americans to purchase health insurance. Such a man­date, according to the Congressional Budget Office, is unprecedented in the history of our nation, and there is reason to believe that it is patently unconstitu­tional. 
Of course, anyone who is determined enough to risk political suicide to pass a piece of legislation is not going to let something as trivial as the Constitution stand in his or her way. 
Case in point: last fall, when a reporter asked Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi about what part of the Constitution gives Congress the authority the mandate the purchase of health insurance, the speaker responded with an incredulous, “Are you serious? Are you serious?” She then promptly ignored the question by turning to another reporter. 
Why yes, Madam Speaker, the possibili­ty that a proposed piece of legislation is unconstitutional is a serious question to most Americans. Much more serious, believe it or not, than a question the pres­ident chose to answer last year about what has most “enchanted” him about the office. 
Unfortunately, Pelosi is not the only one who needs to brush up on her knowledge of the Constitution. Back in December, Senator Kent Conrad (D -N.D.) admitted he could not specify where in the 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of EDITORIAL CARTOON the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Sarah Mervosh Jared Jedick Sam Stryker Megan Finneran Sara Felsenstein Andrew Owens 
Graphics Scene 
Jaclyn Espinoza Jordan Gamble “Pray you now, forget and forgive.” 
Viewpoint 
William Shakespeare 
Lauren 
English dramatist & poet
Brauweiler 
Constitution Congress is granted the authority for an individual mandate. 
“You know, I’m not a lawyer,” Conrad said, “so, I’m not an expert on the consti­tutional issue. That’s not my committee’s jurisdiction. So, I know that attorneys who have looked at it believe that it’s fully constitutional. But I’m not, I’m not a lawyer, so I can’t, I can’t pass judgment on that based on my own legal analysis.” 
Well, excuse us voters for thinking that a sitting senator would consult the Constitution before setting out to pass a reform package with such far-reaching consequences. Perhaps we should pose the question, as Conrad suggests, to someone on the Judiciary Committee. And why not start with House Judiciary Committee Chair John Conyers (D – Mich.)? 
“Under several clauses, the good and welfare clause and a couple others. All the scholars, the constitutional scholars that I know — I’m chairman of the Judiciary committee, as you know — they all say that there’s nothing unconstitu­tional in this bill and if there were, I would have tried to correct it if I thought there were.” 
Yes, you read that correctly. The chair­man of the House Judiciary Committee just referred to a non-existent constitu­tional clause to defend a piece of legisla­tion. 
The fact that a senator, the House Judiciary chairman, and the speaker of the house care so little about where their authority comes from should be cause for widespread alarm among the population. The very document upon which our entire system of government was found­ed, the document that has preserved our rights and freedoms for well over two centuries, the document that these people swore to “support and defend … against all enemies” and to “bear true faith and allegiance,” has become irrelevant in their eyes. 
To Americans who still see the Constitution as meaningful, they under­stand that the debate over this healthcare package is not really about health care at all. Rather, like the soon-to-be insolvent entitlement programs that exist today, it is a manifestation of the federal govern­ment seeking to exert more control over the people by convincing them to sacrifice liberty to gain some security from social ills, and a tenuous security at that. Friedrich Hayek understood the dangers inherent to this exchange when he declared, “If we wish to preserve a free society, it is essential that we recognize that the desirability of a particular object is not sufficient justification for the use of coercion.” 
There are alternate ways of solving the problems confronting the health care and insurance industries, solutions that do not involve substantial government meddling or adding to the nation’s crushing debt while crippling our economic recovery. Curbing frivolous lawsuits that encourage costly defensive medicine, allowing indi­viduals to purchase insurance across state lines, expanding and reforming high-risk pools and reinsurance programs to guarantee access to affordable health care even for those who have preexisting conditions, all of these proposals fall into this category. 
If the history of the American Experiment tells us anything, it is that only when the powers of government are limited can society truly flourish, econom­ically or otherwise. How else can one explain how a lowly British colony emerged as the greatest economic and military superpower the world has ever known in, as far as human history is con­cerned, the blink of an eye? Certainly not by pointing to any coercive efforts by the government. We have the wisdom and foresight of the founders to thank for framing the government in such a way that it allowed us to reach a standard of living that is unrivaled by any prior gen­eration. Eschewing this lesson by ignoring the constitutional restraints on govern­ment authority is akin to tearing up the Declaration of Independence and resub­mitting ourselves to monarchical rule. 
Of course, the liberals in Congress prob­ably wouldn’t mind. 
Christie Pesavento is a senior who is majoring in political science and sociology. She can be reached at cpesaven@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Never refuse any advance offriendship, for if nine out of 10 bringyou nothing, one alone may repayyou.” 
Madame de Tencin French author 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Tuesday, March 30, 2010 page 9 
Real reform at last 

Last week, by a slim majority vote of 219-212, the House of Representatives passed the most progressive social legisla­tion in decades, sending to President Obama the Senate’s Health Care Reform Bill, which had been passed by Anthony the Senate nearly 
Matthew 
three months ago 
Durkin 
on Christmas Eve. On Jan. 19th 

A Confederacy
when a young, lit-

of Dunces
tle-known Republican State Senator from Massachusetts had overtak­en the filibuster-proof seat in the Senate once held by the champion of health care reform, Democrat Edward Kennedy, many predicted health care reform was dead. It seemed that the Obama presidency had failed, spending a good deal of its political capital attempting to get bi-partisan sup­port for its most important domestic policy initiative. The focus of domestic policy in Congress had shifted to the economy and job creation. Yet the Obama administra­tion refused to surrender. After a biparti­san nationally televised summit meeting on Feb. 25 drove the two parties further apart, the White House gambled and urged House Democrats to approve the Senate’s version of the bill and pass changes to the bill through budge recon­ciliation. 
Let’s get some facts straight about this historic bill, which admittedly is less than perfect, but does much to correct the glar­ing and unconscionable inequities in American health care. The bill will pro­vide coverage to over 30 million uninsured Americans who presently cannot afford it. Although the bill will not achieve full uni­versality, by 2019, 95 percent of Americans will be insured. Individuals will be required to obtain health insurance, achieved mostly through subsidies provid­ed to low and middle income individuals and families, enabling them to purchase coverage on newly created exchange mar­kets in each state. It will expand Medicaid to cover 16 million parents and childless adults that are not covered under the cur­rent rules. Further, this bill will reform many of the worst practices by insurance companies. Insurers will no longer be able to drop individuals who become ill. They will no longer be able reject applicants on the grounds of “pre-existing conditions.” By 2014, if someone loses their job or has to buy their own policy, they cannot be denied coverage. The legislation will begin to attack the problem of rising premiums, first with the new exchange market, and then in 2018 with a new excise tax to push employers and workers away from high-cost insurance policies. Finally, in a provi­sion that should be of significant interest to everyone on this campus, particularly those with pre-existing medical conditions and those who might wish to do service work after graduation, parents can pay an additional fee to keep their children on their policies until age of 26. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, the bill will cost $938 billion over 10 years, while reducing the deficit by $138 billion over that same period. 
This historic bill is monumental in many ways. For one, it reflects a continued shift in policy from the Reagan era “laissez-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Debate good for learning 
I write this letter in response to Sy Doan’s Viewpoint (“Christopher Hitchens is the next Obama,” Mar. 25) Though the upcoming debate between Christopher Hitchens and Dinesh D’Souza contains elements that our University is opposed to in its mission, it is precisely these elements of opposition that stand to better maximize the depth, discussion and propa­gation of Christianity. Hitchens may say that organized religion is “violent, irrational, intolerant, allied to racism and tribalism and bigotry, invested in ignorance and hostile to free inquiry, contemptuous of women and coer­cive toward children,” but these are exactly the sorts of claims that ration­al religious persons should seek to answer. 
There is nothing more conducive to introspection or the consequential strengthening of one’s faith than the presence of an opposition to that faith. For answers to be found, the questions must first be known; for con­victions to be strengthened, they must be forged in the fires of opposition. Truly, no medium is better capable of ensuring well-reasoned beliefs. 
Similarly, this impact stands to be better realized in the long term as a result of the debates; in a campus of relative religious conformity, welcom­ing an outside perspective likewise affects the atmosphere of campus dis­course. Discussion becomes laudable — the refrain, “Well, if you believe that then you shouldn’t have come here,” might no longer be sufficient to quell the concerns of non-Catholic members of the Notre Dame family. Nor, I believe, should it be. 
It stands to reason that the debate will actually encourage the propaga­tion of the faith, in that there is a positive value in dissuading others from the notion that Christianity is marked by anti-intellectualism. It seems that now, more than ever, Christianity is criticized for its resistance to both reason and discourse; it seems also that Christians have much to gain by doing away with this perception and meeting the atheist on his own play­ing field. 
I shall, in closing, examine the most potent of the underlying fears of the many religious at Notre Dame: that of the potentiality of conversion away from the faith. Toward this end, however, conversion via debate is a non-issue. If one expects to engage the world in a meaningful manner on topics concerning faith, it is necessary that he or she rise above the petty notion that people might be “tricked” into believing one position over another. The debate will be comprised of two prominent academics, delivering well-reasoned arguments to a bright and competent student body — the men­tality that we need fear discourse is not only unjustified, but ignorant. It is in the same spirit that the Catholic Church abolished the Index Librorum Prohibitorum that we must welcome and, indeed, learn from those who disagree with our positions: ultimately, a faith that cannot withstand dis­course is one without merit. As Pope John Paul II opined, “Reason and faith cannot be separated without diminishing the capacity of men and women to know themselves, the world and God in an appropriate way.” 
Dennis Grabowski 
sophomore Dillon Hall March 28 
faire” revolution of tax cuts, light regula­tion of markets and a patchwork social safety net. It also signals something more significant. Democrats, many who put their November re-election on the line, did the right thing and trumped the fear of political backlash from Republicans. They answered “the call of history” and fought a difficult battle to reform a broken and morally unacceptable industry unlike any in other advanced industrial nations. The Democrats scored a monumental victory that will not be forgotten. 
As for Republicans, their united opposi­tion to any sort of health care reform should hurt them in the long run, as they continue to earn the nickname, “the party of no.” When the House vote essentially became a vote on the issue of whether federal money would be used to fund abortions, Republicans fought to sway pro-life Democrats to vote in opposition to the bill. Although they won the support of some, they lost the battle with the leader of the pro-life Democrats, Bart Stupak of Michigan, and others like Notre Dame alumnus Joe Donnelly. These pro-life Democrats put their support behind the bill after Obama promised to sign an Executive Order ensuring that no federal money would ever be used to fund abor­tions. Pro-life Republicans immediately unleashed their anger at Stupak and oth­ers, most notably with Randy Neugebauer, a Republican congressman from Texas, going so far as to call Stupak a “baby­killer,” despite the fact that Stupak has been one of the most vocal pro-life voices in Congress since 1992. Further, the Republicans continue their refusal to dis­tance themselves from the Tea Party movement, which is getting increasingly out of hand in its viciousness. Some Republican lawmakers were seen cheer­ing on protesters outside of the Capitol and inside with signs that read “kill the bill.” These same protesters spit on Missouri congressman Emanuel Cleaver and hurled racial and homophobic epi­thets at others. Violence has continued at members of Congress, with at least four reported acts of vandalism as well as death threats. The ugliness of these acts reveals the power of misinformation in the media on this issue. 
In the end, it may and should be the Republicans who will be hurt politically for not supporting this legislation. Once people begin to see the benefits, Democrats will be able to say they achieved the measure without any support whatsoever from Republicans. Regardless, the passage of this legislation made me proud to be an American, being able to witness this historic legislation become law. I am confident that Obama’s remarks will ring throughout the nation; “When faced with crisis, we did not shrink from our challenges. We overcame them. We did not avoid our responsibilities, we embraced it. We did not fear our future, we shaped it.” 
Anthony Matthew Durkin is a senior liv­ing off campus and double majoring in political science and history. He can be reached at adurkin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Truth on orientation 
Historians, psychologists, anthropologists, political scientists and videographers are usually extremely subjective. Their disci­plines are limited. A historian will never know all events throughout all of history. A psychologist will never be able to compre­hend the inner-workings of every human mind that has ever existed. An anthropolo­gist will never experience every culture. A political scientist will never know every political structure in history. A videograph­er will never be able to see every video ever created. They are limited by their life spans and the constant movement of time. They will always be able to do some research, but they will never be able to do all research. 
Thus, these researchers and their respec­tive fields are unable to completely answer timeless questions on their own. The only complete way to objectively view reality would be to see all of the universe in all of history all at the same time. So, how can students at a Catholic university pursue Truth? 
In theology, we pursue the only Being with a truly objective view of reality. In the study of God, we discern Truths that are timeless and uncontestable. Theology enables us to learn about the rightful Judge of reality. 
I commend many ideals behind Gail Bederman’s “Scholarship on sexual orienta­tion” (March 24). The fields examining the issue of sexual orientation are certainly academic, but they are lacking in this pro­posed column. Alone, they fail to fully aid in “informed political and ethical judgments.” “Solid and up-to-date knowledge” is not complete by itself. Our constantly changing and evolving knowledge must be examined in the light of eternal truths. 
In failing to include philosophy and theol­ogy in this column, we enter into the rela­tivistic culture of ignoring and denying Truth, and we fail in our mission as a Catholic university. History, psychology, anthropology, political science and film are certainly important disciplines, but they are incomplete when we attempt to separate them from the Truth. We must accept the eternal in our mortal pursuits. Otherwise, when the winds buffet and blow, as they have throughout history, these fields will not stand. 
Christopher Damian 
freshman 
Dillon Hall 
March 29 
Dream schools 
Reading the article on a dream col­lege , I thought it was well balanced in its comments. I would like to add one that was left out. By the fact that Notre Dame continues to be in the top 10 of this list, it was pointed out that it is the only religious affiliation as well as the only Catholic institution to make the list. This brings with it more visibility and so on. This should also bring with it more responsibility to stand up for its Catholic identity. There is more responsibility to represent Catholic val­ues and not take a step back but to take a step up when called to stand for the truth. To whom much is given, much is expected. If Notre Dame is vis­ible let it be so we can stand and be leaders and uphold what the Catholic church teaches us to stand up for. This responsibility starts at the top. Ask honestly, has this been what has hap­pened in recent times? 
Sue Chambers 
St. Mary’s alumna Class of 1977 March 29 
The Observer 
Scene

page 10 Tuesday, March 30, 2010 


From the roaring 20s to the modern day, the Black Cultural Arts Council (BCAC) 
on a ride through time Saturday night to show off the latest popu­lar fashions and current hip-hop trends with their signa­
event, the BCAC 
an organization designed to respond to the 
of the African ­
community by providing leadership oppor­tunities and sponsoring com-
program at Washington Hall, this year titled “The Time Warp,” fea­tured 25 clothing models, dancing, poetry readings 
range of jazzy and 
Chiamaka Chinenye said the show is a celebration of black culture and diversity within the Notre Dame community. “The show was not only 
fashion show, but also a dance showcase which dis­plays the intellectual cre­ativity of African 
Americans,” she said. 
This year’s show 
included poetry read­
ings interspersed 
throughout the musi­
cal numbers. 
Students recited clas­
sic poetry, such as 
one 
from author Langston Hughes, recounting the story 

of 
the African ­


American’s plight in the United States. 
One of the most inspira­tional poems of the evening, Maya Angelou ’s “I Rise,” told of the struggles and hardships of slavery but, more importantly, how African -Americans over ­came them. 
Keeping with the Time Warp theme, models also recited some more modern poems and songs, such as Gemineye’s “Penny for your Thoughts” and Anthony Hamilton’s “Dear Life.” 
Short sketches and dances received most of the atten­tion, as the models confi­dently sported fashions from various clothing donors, including Old Navy, DEB, Tops and Bottoms and the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Music ranged from the old-school Jackson Five to the contemporary hip hop and R&B music, like Beyonce, as per the show’s theme. 
Throughout the show, stu­dents and community mem­bers alike helped to main­tain the energy of the show as they were enthusiastic 
a n d  s u p p o r t i v e  o f  t h e i r  
friends on stage.  
S o p h o m o r e  M i k e  

Wiederecht said, “It was an enjoyable way to learn how different cultures express themselves, and to bring the campus community closer together.” 
Students cheered on their peers during the perform­ance, as the performers incorporated the crowd and facilitated audience partici­pation by dancing and strut­ting down the aisles during the show. 
But the show is about a lot more than simply clothes and culture. BCAC also uses the event to contribute funds to both education and chari­ty. 
In fact, $2,000 of the money raised this year will go toward the Thurgood Marshall College Fund. The scholarship, established in 1993, assists one female and one male African-American non-athlete college student each year. It is awarded in the student’s sophomore year and pays for his or her undergraduate career. 
Another portion of the show ’s takings will go directly toward the Haiti Relief Fund through the Holy Cross Mission Center. 
The Council’s hard work was not only designed to entertain and educate cur­rent students and communi­ty members, but also prospective students. Not coincidentally, Spring Visitation, the admissions outreach program for multi­cultural prospective stu ­dents, also took place this past weekend. These high school seniors were invited to both the fashion show and Latin Expressions (La Alianza’s signature event), so they could experience the opportunities and diversity on campus. 
Contact Stephanie Walz at swalz@nd.edu 
The Observer 
Scene

Tuesday, March 30, 2010 page 11 
By MARISSA FROBES 
Scene Writer 

Indie rock band Vampire Weekend played two sold-out shows at the Riviera Theater in Chicago this weekend. Touring for their new album “Contra,” which premiered at number one on the Billboard 200 chart in January, the group from New York City riled up the young crowd for over two hours. 
With the band running on stage to a Jock Jams song, a black curtain fell to reveal the “Contra” album cover: a headshot of a blonde don­ning a preppy white polo, with eyes that glowed different colors throughout the show. 
The set-list started with “White Sky,” one of the upbeat tunes from their new album. Front man Ezra Koenig immediately had all the teenage girls, with their spots staked out close to the stage, screaming with his spas­tic dance moves. 
The group has been growing in populari-Columbia University. Their music fuses African pop with Western, New England preppiness to create the college anthems sung in every dorm room in the U.S. 
But the Ivy League graduates create lyrically intricate songs: The hit “Oxford Comma” speaks against “linguistic imperialism,” as Koenig told Bwog, the online partner to Columbia’s undergraduate magazine “The Blue and White.” 
The set-list for the Chicago show included the majority of both albums, making the crowd extremely spirited. 

whole crowd keep moving for the entire two-minute-long jam. 
About half way through the concert, six chandeliers low­ered from the ceiling, possibly to pay homage to the “Vampire Weekend” album cover. Their flashing lights combined with the eyes glowing red of the “Contra” cover girl created the hype the band was asking for. Screaming the lyrics to “One,” Koenig asked how angry the crowd could get as we chanted “Blake’s got a new face!” over and over. They got angry — anything for Ezra. 
Some of the other highlights from the con­cert were the first single “Cousins,” “Holiday,” which details the dream of a summer vacation, and the winter-drinking song “Horchata.” Still, the crowd was at its prime for the band’s older hits. The Riviera radiated “college” when Vampire Weekend played “Campus,” which Koenig dedicated to all the “students out there.” 
Before the band’s encore, the crowd begged for “one more song!” and when not immediately pacified moved onto asking for a heftier finale of “10 more songs, 10 more songs!” They got two: a new song and “Walcott,” apparently their traditional clos­ing song. 
Despite this rousing show and enthusiastic audience, the band has been receiving a lot of flack from critics who hear a strong resemblance between “Contra” and Paul Simon’s 1986 hit album “Graceland.” The band denies any replica­tion of Simon’s album, but the artists do cite similar African pop influences, which may account for their similarities. 
Still, the house was packed in Chicago, and the band is in the throws of a huge North American tour. There are no signs of slowing down for these city boys. Everyone left exhilarated Friday night, thanks to the buoyant perform­ance of the foursome. 
Check out their music video for their newest single, “Giving Up the Gun” (surprisingly left out of the Chicago set-list Friday), which features cameos by Joe Jonas, Jake Gyllenhaal and Lil’ Jon to name a few. 
Is the Indie band selling out? See for yourself, but the “underdog prevails” message of the video sticks true to the VW persona. 
Contact Marissa Frobes at mfrobes@nd.edu 


are stop-and-go keyboards giving Bieber room to strut his stuff and the overall sound of the song is funky and modern with Bieber’s catchy vocals. 
Bieber can also please with a ballad, as in the heartfelt “That Should Be Me.” The song illustrates the pain of teenage heartbreak as he belts out: “That should be me / Holdin’ your hand / That should be me / Makin’ you laugh / That should be me / This is so sad.” While Bieber may not be old enough to have experienced so much love and heartbreak, he sure sells it. 
“Somebody to Love” has certain redeemable qualities in that it has a cool dance beat, almost disco in nature. But it is too electronic, overshadowing his voice and the well-done melodies. The kid can sing, so there is no reason to hide it. 
Other songs on the album do not work well at all. “Stuck in the Moment” is sim­ply cheesy with its allusions to famous couples. And “U Smile” has a soul sound, but otherwise is not noteworthy. 
The album also has two too many col­laborations. In addition to featuring Ludacris, “My World 2.0” also features 

By CAITLIN FERRARO 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Bieber mania has hit an all time high with the debut of the 16-year old’s first full album, “My World 2.0,” released last Tuesday. 
Justin Bieber’s fame developed based on a seven-song EP entitled “My World” which features his hit song “One Time.” The teenager was discovered on YouTube and subsequently fought over by Usher and Justin Timberlake. Usher won and the Canadian-born Bieber blew up in the United States. 
Some have affectionately called him “The Singing Fetus.” After all, he is only 16 (and looks even younger) but has a great voice and style. Surprisingly, he isn’t a spawn of the Disney empire. He excels at providing a great male counter­part to Taylor Swift in the teen pop realm 
— both play an instrument and co-write their songs. 
“My World 2.0” is a formative album that shows Bieber’s growth as a young artist. The bottom line, however, is that the album is definitely teen pop music, so listeners must enter with caution. 
The best track off of the album is easily its first single and hit “Baby,” featuring Ludacris. The duo The-Dream and Tricky Stewart, who were behind Rihanna’s “Umbrella” and Beyonce’s “Single Ladies,” created the song. It has an old school charm layered with hip-hop and pop sounds. Ludacris brilliantly harkens back to the feeling of first love in his rap with the likes of: “There was nobody compared to my baby / And nobody came between us, no one could ever come above / She had me going crazy, oh I was star-struck.” 
The track is fun and fast, and a great tune to jam to in the car. 
Another great upbeat song on the disc is “Runaway Love,” a mid-tempo tune reminiscent of Michael Jackson. There Sean Kingston on “Eenie Meenie.” This song had the potential to be great. While its premise of a childhood song is ridiculously goofy, it could be really fun. Unfortunately, Kingston steals the show by hogging the mic and turning the song into one that could be one of his own. 

The other duo is with newcomer Jessica Jarrell on “Overboard.” However, due to Bieber’s androgy­nous voice, collaborating with a teenage girl is totally unnecessary. In fact, at times it is hard to tell the two apart. Bieber should wait until after puberty for his next work with a female singer. 
Beneath that head of hair Bieber has real talent. He can play several instruments including the guitar, drums, trumpet and piano. He also co-wrote all of the songs on the new album. He has poten­tial that will hopefully be fully explored in future albums. 
What ultimately redeems this work is that Bieber has style. His personality shines through on even the weakest of tracks and salvages many cheesy lyrics. If you’re looking for a good pop album, look no fur­ther. Bieber tries to include R&B and dance beats, but in the end the album is pop gold due to Bieber’s signature swagger. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar1@nd.edu 


page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 30, 2010 
CLUB SPORTS 

Sophomores Hannigan and Cole lead gymnasts 
Goalie O’Neill defends in the pool; men’s volleyball finishes third against Big Ten teams in tournament; ultimate teams find success across the boards; sailors host Icebreaker Regatta; Senior Perricone shines through for cyclists 
back in the pool facing Ultimate Twelve races were completed in selection. Special to the Observer Lindenwood. Nineteen players Notre Dame played host to the each division. Notre Dame teams The final miles of the competi­
from Notre Dame contributed in annual White Smoke Invitational finished second and fifth overall. tion were ridden at a lethargic 

Notre Dame enjoyed a success-the 11-4 win. Durkin led the scor-this weekend. In women’s play, Marquette claimed the trophy, pace, with no member of the ful meet at Eastern Michigan’s ing with four goals, while Gibson the A team asserted its dominance edging the Irish number one boat breakaway wanting to expend Michigan Madness this weekend, registered three goals. Adding early in the tournament, posting by two points. unnecessary energy. When the earning several individual one each for the Irish were decisive victories over Purdue, finish came into view, the three honors. Sophomore Michael Romano, O’Malley, Flanagan and Illinois-Chicago and Marquette Cycling Marian riders launched a final Hannigan led the men’s squad Pearl. Saturday morning. The D squad Riders were greeted with sunny lunge to the line, but Magro was with a first place finish on rings, Leading the defense, O’Neill and also defeated the Notre Dame weather for the first time in two positioned perfectly to counter and a 6th place finish in the all Gibson split time in goal with five Alumni team, 10-7 Saturday after-race weekends this past Saturday their effort. around with a score of 66.5. and three saves respectively. Pearl noon. The Irish continued to play as sunny skies and warm temper-Coming out of the Marian slip-Junior Patrick Gorman completed won all three sprints that she well Sunday, defeating Indiana atures found the University of stream with 100 meters to go, a strong all around performance attempted. 15-6 to reach the championship Illinois at Carbondale. Saturday’s Magro powered past to take his as well, highlighted by a 10.9 on In Saturday’s last game, the game against Marquette. road racecourse featured a seven-second win in as many weeks. floor and 11.9 on vault for a 7th Irish faced the No. 1 ranked Although this had been its clos-mile “stem” leading from the start Back in the main field, Ansel was place all around of 62.4. UCLA. Despite a strong effort, the est game Saturday, the team was to a nine-mile loop. able to escape the group with five Sophomore Kyle Sandberg, in only Irish suffered a 5-4 loss. Scoring even better prepared for the sec-The first Notre Dame rider to kilometers remaining but was his second competition, registered for the Irish were O’Malley, Pearl, ond meeting. They began with an compete was senior Jenn swallowed by the peloton with a 10.6 on floor and 11.3 on vault. senior Emily Harig and freshman early lead and won the champi-Perricone in the 42 mile Women’s barely a kilometer left to ride. Grad student Brian Dunn showed Victoria Anglin. Pearl won three onship 15-5. Freshman Kelly A race. A third of the way through Exhausted from the effort, he still strong scores with a 10.7 on high out of four sprints. O’Neill defend-Taylor made strong cuts all week-the competition, Perricone sprinted to fourth place in the bar, an 11.7 on parallel bars, a ed goal with seven saves. end and senior Erin Maxwell maneuvered herself into a break-field, good for ninth overall. 
12.5 on vault. The men’s squad In the final game of the week-rebounded from a previous injury away of four riders who were The clear skies of Saturday finished 2nd in team standings. end, the Irish faced off against the and also played very well. clearly the class of the field. As were replaced with a cold rain 
The Irish women’s team fea-University of Michigan in a The women’s B team was more one of the strongest sprinters in Sunday morning as riders raced tured four new competitors to col-rematch from last weekend. challenged at this tournament and the group, Perricone looked to be through the campus of Southern legiate gymnastics. Sophomore Scoring for the Irish on two man-posted a 1-5 record after both in position for a win until, with Illinois in the criterium event. Sarah Cole showed a 7.0 on floor up opportunities was O’Malley. days of play. The team struggled less than 15 miles remaining, her Josh Johnson was the first Notre and 7.2 on the beam. Sophomore Flanagan added one from outside with its deep game, both defen-chain was jarred loose at the base Dame rider to discover the danger Ellie Frawley, returning to gym-and Durkin slipped a shot past the sively and offensively, and was of a climb. Forced to dismount of the course in the 30 minute nastics after a 12-year hiatus, fin-goalie from the set. Pearl won all unable to gain much momentum and fix the problem, Perricone Men’s C race. All riders were on ished with a 6.0 on floor and 8.0 four sprints of the game. O’Neill Saturday. The D squad lost to lost a great deal of time to the edge due to the conditions, but the on vault. Sophomore Courtney defended goal with 11 saves to Indiana, Notre Dame Alumni, leaders. cautious nature of the field was Dahms additionally posted a 7.6 secure the 4-2 win, avenging a Purdue and Valparaiso. The team Law student Josh Johnson fol-not enough to keep everyone on beam and 8.0 on vault. The 4th bitter loss against the 3rd ranked faced Loyola-Chicago Sunday and lowed Perricone in the 33-mile upright as halfway through the new member, freshman Bryanna Wolverines. while the contest ended in a 14-10 Men’s C category. Johnson rode in event a number of riders slid out Bocardo, sustained an ankle The Irish have Easter weekend loss, it was played at a much high-the center of the pack for most of and skidded across the pavement injury during her floor routine off, but will return the following er level. Freshman Kelly the race to avoid the powerful coming through a turn. and was not able to continue with weekend for Midwest Conference Nickodem made some great crosswinds. In the final kilometers Johnson avoided the other competition. Sophomores Championships at Rolfs Aquatics. catches in the end zone and junior he moved to the front and sprint-bikes, but was forced into the Elizabeth Bonne and Olivia captain Kim Ford had an excellent ed to a 12th place result. grass where he too crashed. Schreader posted career highs Men’s Volleyball weekend defensively. The tourna-Graduate student Douglas Ansel Unfazed, after quickly checking with Bonne receiving an 8.6 on Playing in the Midwest ment ended with a victory for the and freshman Joe Magro repre-his equipment Johnson rejoined vault and Schreader receiving a Intercollegiates this weekend, the team after Illinois-Chicago forfeit-sented Notre Dame in the 42-mile the race and bettered his result of 
7.3 on floor and 8.35 on vault. Irish finished third in a tourna-ed the final game. Men’s B road race. The first seven the day before with an eighth Notre Dame graduate and former ment featuring Big 10, Midwest Both men’s teams were active miles of the race were run at a place finish. team president, Kelleen O’Leary, 10 and Great Midwest conference Saturday playing regional oppo-pedestrian tempo but attacks The Men’s B race with Magro competed on an Alumni team and teams. In opening pool play, the nents. Notre Dame A went 4-0 began the instant the field began and Ansel got off to a blistering scored 9.4 on beam to finish 2nd Irish defeated Ohio Northern, 25-Saturday, beating Western the first of three laps around the start with Ansel setting the tempo in the entire competition. 22, 25-17 and dropped a close one Michigan, Marquette, Purdue and loop. A breakaway of three for many of the early laps. The 
Both the men’s and women’s to Michigan State, 25-22, 22-25, North Park. The final game of the formed on the first major climb group was quickly weeded out to squads will next compete in San 16-14. They defeated both Central day was against a team of Notre and quickly established a 25 sec-the 15 strongest with both Ansel Marcos, Texas, in two weeks. Michigan, 23-25, 25-16, 15-11 Dame alumni. After a hard fought ond gap on the main field. Ansel and Magro present. 
and Ohio State, 25-19, 21-25, 15-game and many injuries, Notre hit the front of the peloton and Magro ran over a piece of glass Women’s Water Polo 11. Dame A lost to the alumni 15-14. began working to reel the break and shredded his rear tire. 
This weekend, the Irish traveled In seeded tournament play, the Notre Dame A beat Western in, but a lack of cooperation from Feeling the loss in pressure, he to Oxford, Ohio to participate in Irish defeated Baldwin Wallace, Michigan again, this time 13-4 for other schools paralyzed his was forced to pull off and eventu­the Miami Invite. The Irish played 25-20, 26-24, and then beat the 9th place victory. Sophomores efforts. The pace slowed again ally abandon the race. Ansel’s their first game against Michigan Lakeland College squad, 16-25, Thom Kenealy and James Denue until Magro accelerated off the luck was not much better as he State University Saturday morn-25-23, 15-13. The Irish fell in the came up from Notre Dame B to front and took off in pursuit of the took a hairpin turn at speeds over ing. The game was a strong start semi-finals to Michigan State, 25-play in this game and really breakaway. 26 miles per hour and crashed. for the Irish with one goal apiece 20, 25-19. showed poise on the field. Denue A rider from Marian University Perricone closed the weekend’s by seniors Cristina Romano and Senior Mike Nejedly was a stal-scored three points over the came along in Magro’s slipstream, action for Notre Dame in the Emily Hari. Junior Ali Durkin and wart throughout the weekend course of the game. Notre Dame B but refused to help bridge the gap Women’s A race. Early in the sophomores Erin Gibson and aided by great setting by sopho-also had a strong showing Sunday as Marian was already represent-event, two Marian riders escaped Maisie O’Malley each scored once more Josh Rehberg. Freshman and won both of their games. ed by two riders in the existing off the front of the field with for the Irish. Graduate student Rob Bauer and junior Jason Healy Men and women resume play break. Magro caught up to the Perricone, a rider from Lindsey Betsy O’Neill defended the goal stepped up their play in the big April 17-18 in Naperville, Ill. at break and the group, now five rid-Wilson, and a rider from DePauw with seven saves. Senior Meghan win over the Buckeyes. The entire the 2010 UPA Central Plains ers, quickly established an insur-giving chase. These five riders Pearl used her speed to win all squad, led by junior libero Mark Sectionals. mountable advantage over the eventually came together and left four swim-offs in the game. Iandolo, raided the game to defeat rest of the race. By the end of the the weaker main field far behind. Durkin worked in set, drawing six Lakeland, the first win over this Sailing third and final loop, Magro’s Perricone placed fifth in the final ejections and one 5-Meter, as the national power since 2006. Notre Dame hosted the break had put over three minutes sprint, giving her two top fives for Irish won. The Irish will next compete in Freshman Icebreaker Regatta this on the main field and it was clear the weekend and her best show-
Two hours later, the Irish were the Nationals at Louisville. weekend on St. Joseph‘s lake. the winner would come out of this ing yet of 2010. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 2 bdrm, 1 ba home close to ND. not go it alone. Notre Dame has Do not dwell in the past, do notFOR RENT $675/mo. Utilities not included. 313-WANTED PERSONAL many resources in place to assist dream of the future, concentrate the 382-0536. you. If you or someone you love mind on the present moment. SUMMER SALES INTERNSHIP needs confidential support or assis-Buddha gradrentals.viewwork.com with an energetic start up company. If you or someone you care about tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at ——————————————— ——————————————— Must have strong communications, has been sexually assaulted, we 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For ——————————————— computer, and time management can help. For more information, visit more information, visit ND's web To the best friends anyone could 
skills. Benefits include flexible loca-Notre Dame's website: site: ever ask for: Thanks for everything. ATTN: Grad Student-faculty. If you are interested in sub-letting tion and work schedule for 20 self-http.csap.nd.edu http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu MK AL AW Spacious 2-bdrm, 2.5 bath home, an apartment for the summer at motivated ND students who enjoy ——————————————— ——————————————— LR, DR, FR, Florida Room. Fenced Irish Row, contact Sam Krause at team competition. Design experi­yard, 2-car garage. Security. Near skrause1@nd.edu. Rent nego-ence is not necessary but a plus. Cleaning By Maria 954-657-1898 Believe that life is worth living and ——————————————— ND. 262-332-0015. tiable. Send resume to Homes, Apartments, Offices your belief will help create the fact. Holla atcha Bermuda Triangle. 
——————————————— mmurtaghm@aol.com Affordable and Relaible William James ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 

Tuesday, March 30, 2010 page 13 
Women’s Division I Tennis ITA Poll 
team previous 
1 Northwestern 1 2 UCLA 4 3 NOTRE DAME 3 4 North Carolina 2 5 Florida 6 6 Michigan 7 7 Duke 8 8 California 5 9 Baylor 9 10 Clemson 10 11 Stanford 14 12 Tennessee 11 13 Southern California 12 14 Georgia 17 15 Florida State 13 16 Washington 18 17 Arkansas 15 18 Miami 16 19 VCU NR 20 South Carolina NR 21 South Florida 20 22 Mississippi NR 23 DePaul 24 24 Yale NR 25 Vanderbilt 19 
Men’s Division I Baseball USA Today Poll 
team  previous  
1  Arizona State  1  
2  Virginia  2  
3  Georgia Tech  4  
4  LSU  3  
5  Clemson  7  
6  UCLA  10  
7  Florida State  5  
8  Texas  6  
9  Florida  11  
10  TCU  8  
11  Louisville  9  
12  Oklahoma  13  
13  Coastal Carolina  12  
14  Miami  14  
15  Oregon State  18  
16  Alabama  21  
17  Arkansas  15  
18  Mississippi  19  
19  North Carolina  17  
20  Vanderbilt  16  
21  Texas A&M  23  
22  UC Irvine  24  
23  South Carolina  NR  
24  Kentucky  20  
25  Southeastern La.  NR  



around the dial 
NHL Hockey 

Blackhawks at Blues 8 p.m., Versus 
NCAA Women’s Basketball 
No. 4 Kentucky vs. No. 3 Oklahoma 
9:07 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 

GiantslockupCainwiththree-yearextension 
Associated Press 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. — Matt Cain and the San Francisco Giants have agreed to a $27.25 million, three-year contract, while closer Brian Wilson has been given a $15 million, two-year extension through 2012. 
Left-hander Jeremy Affeldt has been given a one-year extension through 2011 that adds $5.5 million in new money. 
In all, the team added $43.25 million in new com­mitments in the three deals. 
Cain gets a $1 million signing bonus, $4.5 million this year, $7 million in 2011 and $15 million in 2012. He was due to make $4.5 mil­lion in 2010, the final sea­son of a $9 million, four-year contract that included a $6.25 million team option for 2011. 
Depending on how he does in Cy Young Award voting, Cain’s salary could escalate to $7.5 million in 2011 and $15.5 million in 2012. He would earn a $50,000 bonus each year he pitches 225 innings and gets a limited no-trade pro­vision giving him the right to block deals to eight teams. 
Cain was a first-time All-Star last year and went 14­8 with a 2.89 ERA in 33 starts. His four complete games tied for first in the NL. 
“It just shows apprecia­tion for the things I’ve done, and the way they run the organization,” Cain said. “It shows that we can do something to benefit both sides.” 
The 25-year-old showed he is nearly ready for the regular season on Sunday by pitching five innings of no-hit ball in a minor league game. He gave up two home runs in the sixth and pitched the seventh. 
Wilson, 28, already was signed for $4,437,500 for this year under a settle­ment in January that avoid­ed salary arbitration. The extension added salaries of $6.5 million in 2011 and $8.5 million in 2012. 
He had 38 saves last sea­son and 41 in 2008. He was a first-time All-Star in 2008. 
The 30-year-old Affeldt receives a $500,000 raise to $4.5 million this season, gets $4.5 million in 2011 and has a $5 million club option for 2012 with a $500,000 buyout. 
He tied with Minnesota’s Matt Guerrier for the major-league lead in holds with 33 last season. 
In February, the Giants and two-time Cy Young Award winner Tim Lincecum finalized a $23 million, two-year deal. 
“It’s what we’ve been talking about all spring,” Cain said of the Giants’ rotation. “We love playing together. We all feed off each other. 
IN BRIEF 
Izzo shoots down Oregon rumors, says he is happy 
EAST LANSING, Mich. — Michigan State coach Tom Izzo said Monday that he is happy where he is after a report that Oregon wants to make him the richest coach in the nation. 
KEZI-TV in Eugene, Ore., cited anonymous sources in reporting that the school plans to offer Izzo college basketball’s largest contract with help from Nike Inc. co-founder Phil Knight. 
“I have not been contacted,” Izzo told The Associated Press on Monday. “I’m happy here and I’m focused on trying to win another national cham­pionship.” 
Izzo led the Spartans to a title a decade ago. He will take them to the college basketball’s showcase this weekend for the sixth time in 12 sea­sons, a string of success accom­plished only by UCLA’s John Wooden and Duke’s Mike Krzyzewski in NCAA history. 
Florida woman accuses Steelers’ Holmes of assault 
ORLANDO, Fla. — A Florida woman is suing Pittsburgh Steelers receiver Santonio Holmes, saying the one-time Super Bowl MVP hit her in the face with a glass at an Orlando nightclub and then offered to pay her so she wouldn’t press charges. 
Anshonoe Mills claimed in a lawsuit filed Wednesday that Holmes grabbed her face and threw the glass at her because she was sitting on a couch in the Rain Night Club’s VIP section on March 7. 
The lawsuit said the glass hit Mills on the right side of the face, cutting the woman near the eye. The four-page docu­ment also claimed Holmes and a police officer intimidated Mills so she wouldn’t press charges. 
Holmes offered to pay Mills because he was an NFL star and couldn’t afford to get into trouble, the lawsuit said. The woman felt pressured and incoherently told police that she was hit in the face and was bleed­ing but wouldn’t press charges, according to the lawsuit. 
Steelers’ Roethlisberger misses first day of workouts 
PITTSBURGH — Steelers quar­terback Ben Roethlisberger, accused of assaulting a female col­lege student in Georgia, did not report to the team’s offseason workouts. 
Team spokesman Dave Lockett said Roethlisberger will not work out with his teammates this week. Some, but not all, of the Steelers’ most experienced players began the conditioning and weightlifting program on Monday. Less-experi­enced players began working out two weeks ago. 
The Steelers do not start on-field practicing until April 19, when most players are expected to be on hand. 
The team apparently believes it would be a distraction for Roethlisberger to be working out at this time. An investigation into the Georgia case is ongoing. 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, March 30, 2010 
MLB 

Obama to throw ceremonial pitch 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Barack Obama will throw out the cere­monial first ball at the Washington Nationals’ opener, marking the 100th anniversary of a presidential pitch to start the season. 
William Howard Taft first did it on April 14, 1910. This will be the 48th time a president has made an opening-day pitch in the nation’s capital. 
The Nationals open at home on April 5 against the Philadelphia Phillies. 
“I am proud that President Obama will continue the long presidential tradition of throwing out the first pitch of opening day in Washington, D.C.,” baseball commissioner Bud Selig said. 
Obama will have an experi­enced target, too: When he played in Texas, new Nationals catcher Ivan Rodriguez, a 14­time All-Star, twice caught cere­monial pitches from President George W. Bush, a former Rangers owner. 
Rodriguez is looking forward to this occasion. 
“He’s a great guy, a great presi­dent, a sports fan,” Rodriguez said. “It’s going to be a great day.” 
This will be the first time President Obama attends a game at Nationals Park. 
Pitcher John Lannan will be starting the game for the Nationals and worried he could be warming up in the bullpen right when the Commander in Chief is touring the home club­house. 
“We were hoping he’d do it last year. The timing’s right,” Lannan said. “You have some perks when you're living in D.C.” 
Obama threw out the first pitch at last year’s All-Star game in St. Louis, wearing a White Sox jack­et. Noting that the Nationals host the White Sox this season for a three-game series June 18-20, Washington manager Jim Riggleman joked, “He’s going to be answering some tough ques­tions about whether he’s a Nationals fan or a White Sox fan.” 
NFL 

Bradford prepares for draft 
Associated Press 
NORMAN, Okla. — After a record-setting college career that landed him a Heisman Trophy, one giant question loomed over Sam Bradford’s prospects of becoming the No. 1 overall pick in next month’s NFL draft. 
How would the quarterback’s throwing arm respond to surgery that cost him most of his final sea­son at Oklahoma? 
Bradford provided a convincing case Monday that he’s well down the road to recovery, completing all but one of his five dozen pass­es during a workout on his col­lege campus. 
“Really positive. I thought the whole workout was positive,” said St. Louis Rams general manager Billy Devaney, who has the No. 1 pick in the draft that starts April 
22. “I think he answered a lot of questions for a lot of people today.” 
Bradford’s first public throwing exhibition since his surgery fea­tured an assortment of passes ranging from a swing pass to a running back to patterns forcing him to throw to the sidelines and even a post pattern that went more than 50 yards in the air. 
Bradford went 13 for 13 during a warmup session and then missed only one of 50 passes in the workout that followed — a slant pattern that was slightly behind Adron Tennell but still hit him in the hands. 
“I thought I did very well today,” Bradford said. “I showed a wide variety of throws. I didn’t just come out and show the basic things, I showed some in the gun, on the move and different throws. I think I showed everyone that I can still make all the throws and my shoulder is just what is was before I got hurt.” 
Among those there to watch were Seattle Seahawks coach Pete Carroll, Cleveland Browns president Mike Holmgren and San Francisco 49ers coach Mike Singletary. The Seahawks control the sixth and 14th picks, Cleveland picks seventh and the 49ers have the 13th and 16th selections. 
“He hit every ball, he was dead on it and looked great. This is what you’d hope happens and he did a beautiful job,” Carroll said. 
Bradford won the Heisman Trophy in 2008 after throwing for 4,720 yards and 50 touchdowns with only eight interceptions while leading the Sooners to the BCS championship game. No player in NCAA history has thrown more than Bradford’s 86 touchdown passes through his freshman and sophomore sea­sons. 

But after deciding to return for another shot at a national title, Bradford’s junior year was cut short. He sprained his right shoul­der just before halftime in Oklahoma’s season opener against BYU, then returned to play one full game before getting hurt again against Texas. 
He had season-ending surgery in late October and declared for the draft, with experts tabbing him as a possible No. 1 pick even though he opted not to throw at the NFL combine or at Oklahoma’s regular pro day in order to give the arm more time to heal. 
“He lived up to it. He did what he needed to do today. It’s a big day for Sam, too, after all of the time off,” Carroll said. “He came through in the kind of manner you would expect a big-timer to come through.” 
Bradford said he had breakfast with Spagnuolo and the Rams’ offensive coaching staff before his workout. Devaney also said the Rams plan to have a private workout with Bradford. 
“It’s another piece,” Devaney said of the Rams’ evaluation of Bradford. “It’s an important piece but it’s a piece.” 
Bradford said every player dreams of being picked first in the draft, but he hasn’t given it much thought. And he said it would be up to the Rams whether he’d sign a deal before draft day, should they decide to draft him at No. 1. 
“I don’t control that. I have no clue how it’s going to play out,” Bradford said. “If that’s how it works, then that’s how it works. If not, I’ll be excited to hear my name called on draft day.” 
Bradford admitted being nerv­ous before the throwing session, in part because it was an unusual situation to have one receiver running a pattern at a time with no defense. 
“At the end of the day, it’s still just a workout,” Bradford said. “I’m not going to go to the NFL and throw routes on air to guys. I’m going to have to play against a very good defense week in and week out.” 
After Bradford was finished, former teammate Gerald McCoy 
— a longtime friend who’s also in the mix to become the No. 1 over­all pick — came rushing over from the sideline to give him a hug. 
“I knew he was going to be at his best,” McCoy said. “Sam is the best, man. He’s a beast. That’s why I call him King Sam.” 
PGA TOUR 
Els wins 18th career victory at Invitational 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. — Ernie Els made two clutch par putts, escaped trouble from a buried lie in the bunker and wound up wearing a blue blazer Monday for winning the rain-delayed Arnold Palmer Invitational. 
Suddenly, it’s easy to picture him in a different color jacket two weeks from now. 
Els overcame a few nervous moments with four solid pars to wrap up a 1-under 71 and win by two shots at Bay Hill, giving him back-to-back victories for the first time in seven years and setting himself up as a favorite at Augusta National. 
“I’d like to put this jacket in some dye,” Els said at the tro­phy presentation. “Some green dye.” 
Coming off a four-shot victory in the World Golf Championship at Doral two weeks ago, Els had to work harder than he should have for his 18th career victory on the PGA Tour. 
He had a five-shot lead Sunday afternoon with six holes remaining until hitting into the water on No. 13 for a double bogey and hitting into the sand on the next hole for a bogey. Then came the thunderstorms, halting the final round until it resumed at noon Monday. 
Els immediately felt pressure as he stood over a 6-foot par putt, but he made it. 
With his lead down to one shot over Kevin Na, his 4-iron came up short of the 17th green and plugged into the face of the bunker. Els blasted out to 6 feet and made that one for par. 
“The whole thing changed from being very comfortable to being just as tense as I’ve been for a long time,” Els said. “So it was a hard struggle today. If I can say it, I really earned this one.” 
He finished at 11-under 277 and moved to No. 7 in the world rankings. Els earned $1.08 mil­lion, giving him more than $3 million for the year and putting him atop the PGA Tour money list. 
Na missed an 18-foot birdie putt on the 17th hole for a share of the lead, then drove into the right rough and had to lay up short of the water. He hit a wedge within 8 feet and missed the putt, giving Els some breathing room. 
Na closed with a 69 and shared second with Edoardo Molinari of Italy, who also had a 69. 
Els blasted out of the buried lie in the bunker on the 17th and was knocking the sand from his spikes when he saw that Na, in the group ahead of him, had driven into the right rough. When he reached the 18th tee, Els could hear the groan from the gallery around the green and realized Na had made bogey. 
“Even Tiger Woods couldn’t have gotten over the water,” Na said, referring to his decision to lay up. “With the lie as wet as it is, there’s absolutely no chance.” 
Facing a difficult tee shot on the 18th to secure the victory, Els pretended to be at the Masters. 
“It’s always in my head this time of the year,” he said. “You try and downplay it, but you do think about it. Today, I thought about it on the 72nd hole. I was like, ‘OK, you’re standing at Augusta and you’ve got to hit this hard fade.’” 
And he nailed it. 
Playing cautiously away from the water, he pulled his approach into the rough near a bunker, chipped to 8 feet and holed the par putt. 
It was his second victory at Bay Hill, the other coming 11 years ago in a 36-hole Sunday because of rain. Els became the first player since Tiger Woods in 2001 to win twice on the Florida Swing. Woods won at Bay Hill and The Players Championship, then made it three in a row when he cap­tured the Masters. 
Els has had nothing but heartache at Augusta National. 
“I know the history of Augusta pretty well, and there’s been a lot of nice stories,” Els said. “There’s been a lot of cruel ones — thinking of (Tom) Weiskopf and (Greg) Norman and myself — but there’s also been some really great ones. So we still are hoping for the great one.” 
Els planned to fly up to Augusta on Tuesday for a prac­tice round before playing in the Houston Open. 
“I think he’s going to be tough at Augusta,” Palmer said after greeting Els behind the 18th green. 
Retief Goosen (69) and Chris Couch (71) tied for fourth. Ben Curtis, who started the final round one shot out of the lead, closed with a 74 and finished alone in sixth. 
“It’s great to see Ernie playing well again,” Goosen said. “He’s really settled in after moving to America now. His game has seemed to really come around.” 
Els had gone two years with­out winning — the longest drought of his career — and now has consecutive wins for the first time since he won the Heineken Classic and Johnnie Walker Classic in Australia early in the 2003 season. Earlier that year, he won the PGA Tour’s first two events in Hawaii. 
“I want to make this a special year, especially after these two wins,” Els said. “But I still have a lot of work left, and there are a lot of majors left. And that’s going to be fun now.” 


Tuesday, March 30, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Duke prepares for Final Four 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. — Duke is headed to another Final Four after showing it takes more than a cold night from one of the “Big Three” to stop the Blue Devils. 
Kyle Singler missed every shot he took in the regional final. In an earlier round, Jon Scheyer was 1 for 11. 
“It’s not always about what we do in terms of shooting” Scheyer said after beating Baylor in the South Regional final. “If we have a couple of off shooting nights ... usually the three of us try to make up for it in other ways.” 
And they have. Duke has won three of four NCAA tournament games by double figures. The Blue Devils play West Virginia on Saturday In Indianapolis. 
Duke (33-5) depends on the trio for most of its scoring. For the most part, they’ve come through all season. Each aver­ages at least 17 points, and the threesome combines to average more than 53 points — nearly 69 percent of Duke’s points. 
For opponents, the challenge is figuring out how to stop the one with the hot hand. 
California slowed Scheyer in the second round, continuing his shooting slump and holding him to seven points on 1 of 11 shoot­ing. But Nolan Smith lit up the Golden Bears for 20 points and Scheyer added 17. 
Then Baylor thought it had Singler figured out, holding him without a field goal for the first time in his college career while he focused on defending Bears star LaceDarius Dunn. Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski later admitted that with Singler’s “anxiety to cover Dunn, he got out of his game a little bit.” 
“I think Kyle’s a great player, and he’s not always going to play great,” Krzyzewski said. “You can’t give knee-jerk reactions when a kid just doesn’t perform at a top level. He’s trying to fight through it and a lot of us, most of us, if we were trying to guard Dunn, it would take away from 
NHL 

our offense. There’s no question about it. 
“You can get into a mode where you’re a little bit more conservative,” he added, “because you on the court is a valuable asset, even if it’s not 100 percent.” 
Not to worry, Smith stepped up like he did against California. He had a career-high 29 points and Scheyer added 20 and five 3­pointers while breaking out of that slump in a 78-71 win that put the Blue Devils in yet another Final Four. 
“Just coming into the game, I wasn’t going to worry about or think about my shot. I was just going to let it go if I was open,” Scheyer said. “Just play my game, not worry about just being a spot-up shooter or anything like that. I really want to follow my instincts and not worry about it. Just throw myself into the team, and naturally it just goes in when you're doing that.” 
Indeed, Duke never seems rat­tled when one of its “Big Three” has an off night. It’s when two of them go cold that the Blue Devils could be in trouble. Fortunately for them, it’s only happened once. 
Georgia Tech was the only team this season to hold two of them to single-digit scoring, lim­iting Singler and Smith to nine points apiece in a 71-67 win two months ago in Duke’s ACC road opener. 
Now the Mountaineers will try to get in down against Duke. West Virginia effectively mixes man-to-man and zone defenses and seems constructed to slow down the Blue Devils. 
The Blue Devils have started preparing for West Virginia, but they took a moment to savor what they accomplished. 
“We’ve worked really hard, this group, and I think we’ve come a long way since our fresh­man year,” Scheyer said. “And to be in a position in the Final Four and contend for a national cham­pionship, it means a lot. I don’t know if it’s fully hit me. I’m sure after the year I’ll have a better appreciation. But right now I’m just ecstatic and just really happy to share with all my teammates.” 

Coach Playfair fned for tantrum 
Associated Press 
ABBOTSFORD, British Columbia — Abbotsford Heat coach Jim Playfair says that while he is not proud of the stick-breaking tantrum that got him fined by the American Hockey League, he won’t apol­ogize for it. 
“It isn’t my proudest moment for sure,” he said Monday. “It’s not to the point where it’s embarrassing.” 
The amount of the fine was undisclosed. 
Playfair, a former NHL play­er and coach of the Calgary Flames, was upset after one of his players was given a 5­minute penalty and game mis­conduct Saturday by referee Jamie Koharski for running into Hamilton’s goalie. 
The coach tore off his suit jacket, stood on the bench and smashed two sticks over the boards, throwing the pieces on the ice. 
“It is what it is,” Playfair said Monday after the Heat practiced. “I’m not going to apologize for it. 
“It’s part of the emotion level you have to have to get to be a professional person. That’s what happened.” 
The 45-year-old Playfair said his own children have shown him the video “20 or 30 times.” 
“I can’t take it back. I can have you check my history and it’s just not something I do consistently. It’s not a motiva­tional tool. It’s something that happened in the heat of the moment.” 
Playfair regrets that his actions send the wrong mes­sage to children watching hockey. 
“I have kids in minor hockey myself,” he said. “I under­stand a parent’s perception of it. 
“It’s not cool. I do apologize to the kids and parents. It’s not right.” 
After the game, Playfair called the owner of the Heat, the president of the Flames and the president of the AHL to explain his actions. 
“I expressed to those people how I feel,” he said. “It’s not the proper action of any type of coach. 
“Let’s be serious. It’s not what you are supposed to do when you are a professional person in a market where we are trying to educate people and kids on how to play. It’s not the right thing to do.” 
Playfair also wants to speak with Koharski. 
“I will make the effort to speak with the referee and explain,” he said. “He’s a young referee that carries around a big family name. 
“He is trying to get to the highest level.” 
Koharski is the son of retired NHL official Don Koharski, who was involved in one of the NHL’s most infa­mous tirades. 
In 1988, Devils coach Jim Schoenfeld called Koharski a “fat pig” and told him to “Have another doughnut.” 
TENNIS 
Sony Ericsson Open continues for some 
Associated Press 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. — Venus Williams rallied to beat Daniela Hantuchova 1­6, 7-5, 6-4 in the fourth round at the Sony Ericsson Open on Monday. 
The third-seeded Williams trailed for most of the match but swept the final seven points, hitting winners on the last four points. She 
overcame 45 unforced errors, including 11 as she lost the first four games. 
Williams improved to 10-0 against Hantuchova. 
The lone American woman to reach the final 16, Williams is seeking her fourth Key Biscayne title, but her first since 2001. Her quarterfinal opponent will be No. 6 Agnieszka Radwanska, who beat Yaroslava Shvedova 6-1, 6-4. 
An unusually inconsistent Roger Federer edged Florent Serra 7-6 (2), 7-6 (3) in the third round. The top-ranked Federer lost serve three times, each time when he 
led.  H e  c o m mitted  35  
unforced  errors  to  32 for  
Serra.  

But Federer won eight consecutive service points in the tiebreakers and closed out the victory with a service winner. 
“All in all, I’m thrilled to be through,” he said. “At the end of the day, that’s what counts.” 
The crowd included Rafael Nadal, a potential opponent in the men's final Sunday. 
“It has always been a lot of fun playing against him,” Federer said. “I hope that day is going to come soon again.” 
The top-seeded woman, Svetlana Kuznetsova, was hampered by a right shoul­der injury and lost to Marion Bartoli 6-3, 6-0 in the fourth round. 
Kuznetsova, the 2006 champion, required treat­ment from a trainer three times during the match and won only eight points in the second set. 
“I almost had stars in my eyes, it was so painful,” Kuznetsova said. “I cannot return. Then I cannot serve.” 
The upset was nothing new for the 13th -seeded Bartoli, who has won seven of her past 11 matches against top five players. 
Bartoli advanced to the quarterfinals at Key Biscayne for the second time. She also reached the final eight as a qualifier in 2003. 
Mardy Fish reached the fourth round with his second consecutive win over a seed­ed opponent, beating No. 29 Feliciano Lopez 7-5, 6-3. Fish upset defending cham­pion Andy Murray in the second round. 
Federer’s fourth-round opponent will be No. 16 Tomas Berdych, who beat Horacio Zeballos 6-4, 7-5. 
Federer’s 7-6, 7-6 win was his first since October 2008. He played only four tiebreakers in his 14 previ­ous matches this year, going 2-2. 
“It’s nice having won two breakers,” he said. “That doesn’t happen every match you play.” 
The Key Biscayne champi­on in 2005-06, Federer has won 36 matches in the tour­nament, third behind Andre Agassi and Pete Sampras. 


page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, March 30, 2010 
CLUB SPORTS 

Men’s water polo squad goes 3-1 
Special to the Observer 
This weekend featured the Alumni Invitational at the Rolfs Aquatic Center in which five teams participated in a round robin tournament. Notre Dame’s alumni team was comprised of water polo alumni who have graduated since 2001. 
The Irish opened play with a loss to St. Louis University. Notre Dame quickly scored three goals to take the early lead. However, St. Louis soon game back with four goals of their own, forcing the Irish to design a new strategy. After a timeout, Notre Dame was able to tie the game, but the Bilikens scored twice more before halftime. The third quarter continued in the same manner, with a shot from freshman John Deggelman, bringing the Irish within two goals at the end of the third period. A quick goal from sen­ior Billy Bauman brought the Irish within one goal in the fourth period. However, the squad was not able to capital­ize on numerous opportuni­ties, and SLU won, 11-8. Freshman Chris Jennis played well, scoring two of the Irish’s eight goals, while Billy Bauman led Notre Dame with three. 

The next and most antici­pated game of the weekend was Notre Dame versus the Alumni team. The current Notre Dame squad jumped out to a quick 4-0 lead thanks to two goals by sophomore captain Dan Geisman. Notre Dame continued to apply pressure in the second quar­ter, scoring six goals, includ­ing a pair from Jennis, and goals from sophomore Rob Ray and senior captain Luke DePasquale. Although the alumni mounted a comeback in the second half, the squad held the lead, winning 15-9. Freshman John Hancher had a hat trick, and Deggelman put in two goals of his own. 
The last game Saturday pit­ted Notre Dame against Michigan. The score was never separated by more than two goals, until Notre Dame was able to forge a 10-7 lead in the fourth quarter. However, the Wolverines fought back to tied the score at 11, with 1:33 left and sent the game into a two period overtime. During regulation, Geisman, DePasquale and Bauman each scored a goal, and Matt Fordonski scored five goals. In overtime, Fordonski quickly scored twice more, giving him seven for the game. The Irish held the lead, winning 13-12. 
The final game Sunday was Notre Dame against Purdue. Again, Notre Dame started strong, jumping out to a 6-0 lead by the start of the second period. However, Purdue fought back, bringing the score to 9-6 in the third peri­od. The Irish regained their composure, and coasted in the end, winning the game, 14-9. Fordonski again led the Irish with five goals, while Bauman registered a hat trick. Giesman and DePasquale both put away two goals, and senior Alex Wheeler added a goal. 
WNBA 
Mercury lose champion Pondexter to Liberty 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — WNBA star Cappie Pondexter is headed to the New York Liberty as part of a major three-team trade. 
The league champion Mercury have a deal in place to send All-Star guard to New York for Shameka Christon and Cathrine Kraayeveld, according to a person familiar with the trade. Christon and Kraayeveld will be shipped to Chicago for All-Star Candice Dupree. 
The person told The Associated Press on Monday night on condi­tion of anonymity because the trade hadn’t been announced. 
Pondexter averaged 19.1 points last season for the Mercury, who won their second title in three years. The 27-year-old guard, who was the second pick in the 2006 WNBA draft by Phoenix, will be reunited with 2008 Olympic basketball coach Anne Donovan and former Rutgers teammates Essence Carson and Kia Vaughn. 
Pondexter, who was playing overseas this winter for UMMC Ekaterinburg in Russia, helped the U.S. win its fourth straight gold medal at the Beijing Olympics. She was one of the first eight players announced as part of the U.S. national team pool for the World Championships this fall. 
The 25-year-old Dupree aver­aged 15.7 points last season for the Sky, who just missed out on making the playoffs. 
Christon led New York in scor­ing last season, averaging 16.1 points and was recently added to the USA basketball national team pool. Kraayeveld averaged 9.0 points last year and was one of the team’s best 3-point shooters. 
The Liberty didn’t make the playoffs last season, a year after advancing to the Eastern confer­ence finals. 
The WNBA regular season starts May 15. The Liberty are at Phoenix on July 3 and host the Mercury on August 14. 

NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Baylor’s women get revenge against Duke 
Associated Press  Madden said. The Blue Devils held  a  46­ bounced off the rim as the Blue Devils missed their last  
MEMPHIS, Tenn.  — Baylor’s  38 advantage with 4:59 left  nine shots and  a  chance at  
youth nearly  cost  the Lady  before  a  pair of free throws  their first Final Four since  
Bears a trip to Final Four, and  by Kimetria Hayden launched  2006.  
ended up saving the day.  a 13-2 run for the Lady Bears  Griner just missed her third  
P h en o m e na l  f r e sh m a n  (27-9).  triple-double of the season,  
Brittney Griner caught a pass,  Krysta l Tho mas spent 26  finishing with 15 points, 11  
spun around and hit  a  short  minutes guarding Griner in  rebounds and nine blocks.  
jumper with 45 seconds left to  the paint before fouling out  Both teams struggled early.  
propel fourth-seeded Baylor  with 2:17 left. That cleared  Duke missed its first 10 shots  
to a 51-48 win over No. 2 seed  the way for Griner, who hit  from the floor, but Baylor only  
Duke on  Monday night for its  the game-winning shot  over  held  a  7-1 lead 5½ minutes  
second trip  ever  to the Final  Cheek’s extended arm.  into the game.  
Four.  “When Krystal Thomas  was  “When you have somebody  
“ I  k n e w  w e  n e e d e d  t hat  fouled out, that’s the game.  in the paint with shot-block­ 
bucket  so  I did everything I  That’s the story. That’s it,”  ing ability like that, it  can  
could to get position and to  D u ke  c o ac h  J o an n e  P. make it difficult for you  to  
have (the defender) pinned  McCallie said. “If you take our  take the shots you  want  to  
behind  me  and step through  b e s t  6 -4 pl ay e r  o u t  of  t h e  take,” Cheek said.  
a n d g o u p s t r o n g , ” G r i n e r  game for the last three min- The game was every bit the  
said.  u t e s ,  i t  c h a n ge s  t h e  g a m e  d e f e n s i v e  b a t t l e  t h a t  w a s  
The 6-foot-8 Griner and her  enormously. And they took  expected, with Baylor shoot- 
t e a mm a te s  h o i st e d  K i m  advantage.”  ing 27.6 percent and Duke  
Mulkey onto their shoulders  Hayden, also  a  freshman,  24.2 percent in the first half.  
so  the coach could cut down  made  a  pair of free throws  Th e L a d y B e a rs h a v e h e ld  
the net. Mulkey led the Lady  a nd  s t o le  t h e  f o l l o w i n g  each of their opponents in the  
B e a r s  t o  t h e i r  on l y  o t h e r  inbounds pass by Cheek, dish- NCAA tournament to under 35  
appearance in the national  ing it to Melissa Jones for  a  percent shooting.  
semifinals in 2005 en route to  l a y u p  w i t h  2 : 10  l e f t  th a t  G rin e r,  wh o  b l o c k e d  1 4  
the national championship.  pulled the Lady Bears within  s h o t s i n t h e s e c o n d r o u nd  
“I’ve  never  had players tall  one. Jones, who finished with  against Georgetown to set  an  
enough to lift  me  to cut the  10 points, also hit  a  pair of  N C A A  t ou r na m e n t  s i n gl e - 
net  so  that's  a  first,” Mulkey  free throws with 26 seconds  game record, has 35 through  
said.  left, forcing Duke (30-6)  to  four tournament games. That  
Baylor’s men’s team lost to  scramble.  broke the previous record of  
Duke 78-71  on  Sunday in the  A fired-up Mulkey sat Griner  30 by Duke’s Alison Bales in  
South Regional final. It  was  for 20 seconds early in the  2006.  
the first time  ever  that there  second half because she was- The Blue Devils have had  
had been the  same  regional  n ’t  p l a y i ng  a g gr e s s i v e l y  plenty of experience with slow AP  
final matchup in both brack­ enough and spent  a  timeouts  starts, trailing early in nine of Baylor center Brittney Griner goes up for a shot against Duke  
ets since the women’s tourna­ a f t e r  H a y d e n ’s  t w o  f r e e  t he i r  l a s t  1 0  g a me s .  T h e y center Krystal Thomas in the frst half of their games Monday.  
ment began during the 1981­ throws yelling at Hayden and  slowly warmed up  on  offense  
82  seas o n ,  a c c or d in g  t o  f e l l ow  f r e s h ma n  S h a na y  and took  a  16-15 lead  on  a  w e r e n ’t  a b l e  to  ge n e r a t e  Duke has thrived off low- 
STATS LLC.  Washington for their lack of  putback layup from Bridgette  points through their offense  scoring games this  season.  It  
Duke led the entire second  effort in rebounding.  Mitchell with 6:04 left before  w i th  B a y l o r  h a n d l i n g  th e  was  the 23rd time the Blue  
half until Griner’s basket and  “Dan g  i f  t h e  k i d  d o es n ’t  halftime.  pressure.  Devils held an opponent to 60  
by  as  much  as  10 points  — come back and make the play  Karima Christmas scored six  The Blue Devils entered the  or  fewer points but only the  
enough for freshman Jordan  of the game under the basket  straight points in the last 1:30  game ranked second in the  first time they’d lost when  
Madden to start longing for  p r e ss i n g ,” M u l k e y  s a i d  o f  of the first half to give Duke a  nation with  an  average 13.3  doing so.  
the bench.  Hayden’s steal. “It’s what you  2 6 -2 1  le a d  a t  t h e  b r e a k .  steals per contest and had 23  “We did the best  we  could  
“I really didn’t want to be  get with freshmen. You get  Christmas finished with 10  against San Diego State in the  with what  we  had,” McCallie  
o ut  t h e r e b e c a u s e I d i d n ’t  t h e  g o od  an d  y o u  g e t  t h e  points and 12 rebounds.  regional semifinals but logged  said. “Our kids  were  great.  
want to make  a  mistake and  bad.”  Duke shot  a  season-worst  only six, ending their streak  Our  team  fought very, very  
turn the ball over or foul and  Tw o  3 -p o i n t a t t em p t s b y  23.1 percent for the game,  of 10 straight games with 10  hard. They shouldn’t be hard  
let them shoot free throws,”  Cheek in the last 17 seconds  and for  once  the Blue Devils  or more thefts.  on themselves at all.”  

Tuesday, March 30, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NBA 

Double-doubles from Boozer and Williams lead to win 
Nowitzki has triple-double in victory; Paul returns to pre-injury form; league-worst Nets earn 10th win by topping Spurs 
87, but missed the next two and it the Mavericks’ next eight points, 
Associated Press 
was still tied entering the fourth. including a pair of 3s, for a 90-77 

SALT LAKE CITY — Carlos Utah opened the fourth with a lead with 8:05 to play. Boozer scored 26 points and 6-0 run and the Knicks weren’t Dallas went on to lead by as pulled down 14 rebounds, Deron able to catch up again, but they many as 20 points down the Williams added 23 points and 14 kept it close until the final minute. stretch. The Mavericks carried a assists and the Utah Jazz took Okur hit a 3-pointer midway 79-69 advantage into the fourth over first place in the Northwest through the third that put Utah up quarter after leading by as many Division with a 103-98 win over 96-91 and started a 10-2 run that as 17 in the third. the New York Knicks on Monday clinched it for the Jazz. After Denver’s top rebounder Kenyon night. Rodriguez cut it to 96-93 with a Martin missed his 14th straight 
Paul Millsap also had a double-layup, Boozer followed with a game due to left knee patella ten-double with 14 points and 10 layup and then Williams hit back-dinitis. rebounds for the Jazz, who scored to-back jumpers, including his The Nuggets continue to strug­44 in the first quarter then needed fifth 3-pointer of the night to gle without Martin and with to hold off the Knicks down the restore Utah’s lead to 10. Adrian Dantley as acting coach stretch. while George Karl undergoes 
The Knicks rallied from 15 Mavericks 109, Nuggets 93 treatment for throat cancer. points down and tied it late in the Dirk Nowitzki had 34 points, 10 Denver is 7-7 in Karl’s absence. third quarter but couldn’t over-rebounds and 10 assists for his A little over an hour before tip-come a 10-2 surge by the Jazz in second career triple-double, and off, Dantley called the matchup “a the fourth. the Dallas Mavericks maintained big game — a huge game.” 
Utah’s victory combined with the No. 2 seed in the Western Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle Denver’s loss at Dallas puts the Conference with a victory over the wasn’t as dramatic, but he said it Jazz one game ahead of the Denver Nuggets on Monday night. was “a tiebreaker game, so it’s Nuggets for the division lead and Shawn Marion added 21 points important.” keeps the Jazz within a half-game and Jason Terry contributed 15 Marion’s 10 points helped put of the Mavericks, who are second for Dallas, which increased its Dallas in front 31-23 heading into in the Western Conference. conference lead over Denver to 1 the second quarter. 
Al Harrington led New York 1-2 games. The Mavericks closed the sec-with 26 points and 17 rebounds. Nowitzki’s other triple-double ond quarter with an 8-2 run, 
It was the 50th double-double of came with 29 points, 10 rebounds including consecutive 3s from rookie Darren Collison, a former and Posey. the season for Boozer and and 12 assists against Milwaukee Jason Kidd and Roddy Beaubois UCLA standout, added 17 points New Orleans wound up out-Williams’ 41st. Williams almost on Feb. 6, 2008. for a 55-46 edge. against his hometown team. shooting the Lakers 49 percent to had his wrapped up before the Nowitzki hit 4 of 5 from 3-point Denver went the final 4:30 of Kobe Bryant had 31 points and 42 percent as Los Angeles was end of the first quarter, finishing range and went 16 for 17 from the second quarter without a field Pau Gasol added 26 points and 22 hurt by 7-of-29 shooting from 3­with 14 points and eight assists. the free throw line as the goal, going 0 for 5 from the field rebounds, but they didn’t have point range. The Jazz made all seven of their Mavericks moved to 4-4 since with three turnovers. much help as the Lakers trailed Gasol scored the Lakers’ first 12 3-point attempts and shot 17 for snapping a season-best 13-game throughout the final three quar-points and his dunk later gave Los 20 in the period, missing as many winning streak. Hornets 108, Lakers 100 ters and fell behind by as much as Angeles a 21-17 lead, but New from the foul line as they did from J.R. Smith scored 27 points and Chris Paul had his first double-17 points in the fourth before los-Orleans regained the lead for the floor. Nene had 14 for the Nuggets, who double since returning from injury ing for the second time in three good on consecutive 3s by Posey 
But the Knicks hacked away at lost their fifth in six games. with 15 points and 13 assists to games. and Collison. the lead and cut it to 64-60 by Carmelo Anthony, the league’s No. help the New Orleans Hornets Thornton and James Posey each Those baskets began a 17-1 run halftime, then tied it in the third. 3 scorer, went 3 for 16 from the beat the Los Angeles Lakers on had three 3-pointers for the that carried into the second quar-
A 3-pointer by Harrington tied it floor and had 10 points, 18.9 Monday night. Hornets, who hit 10 3s in all while ter and featured two more 3s, one at 84, then Tracy McGrady drew a below his average. David West scored 20 points for snapping a two-game skid. Posey each by Paul and Collison, and foul while shooting a 3-pointer. He The Nuggets pulled to 82-75 New Orleans, while Marcus finished with 13 points and New Orleans’ lead hovered made the first foul shot to tie it at with 10:08 left, but Terry scored Thornton had 18 points and fellow Emeka Okafor grabbed 13 around 10 points throughout the 
rebounds. period. 
Ron Artest scored 14 points and Odom scored on a spin move in Lamar Odom 10 for Los Angeles, the lane while being fouled as but the Lakers did not have a time expired in the second quar­point from a reserve until Jordan ter, but missed his free throw, and Farmar’s 3-pointer with 2:42 left the Hornets led 50-42 at halftime. in the third quarter, which cut New Orleans’ lead to 66-61. Nets 90, Spurs 84 
The Hornets responded with The New Jersey Nets notched eight straight points, capped by their 10th victory Monday night, West’s layup on a feed from Paul. avoiding any chance of tying for 
After Gasol’s free throws pulled the worst record in NBA history the Lakers to 74-63, Los Angeles by beating the short-handed San was looking to cut it to single dig-Antonio Spurs. its when Posey swooped in for a Brook Lopez had 22 points and backside block on Gasol. New 12 rebounds for the Nets, who Orleans broke the other way and grabbed control with a 15-4 run Collison hit a driving floater in a late in the fourth quarter to crowd while being fouled by improve to 10-64. The 1972-73 Gasol. He converted the three-Philadelphia 76ers, who went 9­point play to widen New Orleans’ 73, will remain in the record lead to 77-63 heading into the books as the league's worst team. fourth quarter. Public address announcer Gary 
Lakers coach Phil Jackson Sussman shouted "We got 10! The appeared ready to concede after Nets win!" after New Jersey Okafor tipped in West’s miss to snapped a 14-game losing streak make it 87-70 with a little more in the series, committing a fran­than nine minutes left. Bryant chise record-low four turnovers in joined Gasol on the bench, even beating San Antonio for the first thought the Lakers’ reserves were time since the 2003 NBA finals. being outscored 31-5 to that point. With Manu Ginobili (lower back However, the Lakers scored 11 spasms) joining Tony Parker on straight points, the last when the injured list and Tim Duncan Bryant checked back in just in struggling through a poor shoot-time to put back Farmar’s missed ing game, the Spurs had few free throw, cutting it to 87-81 with answers on the second night of a about 5:40 still remaining. back-to-back following an impres-
Darius Songaila, who had 10 sive victory at Boston on Sunday. points on 5-of-6 shooting, then hit George Hill scored 19 points and a jumper to snap the run. After former Net Richard Jefferson fin-Famar hit another 3, West banked ished with 16 after a strong start in a tough fade over Odom. for the Spurs, who fell out of a 
Artest then missed his second 3-sixth-place tie in the Western point attempt in three possessions Conference with Oklahoma City and the Hornets began rebuilding and Portland. their lead. Songaila tipped in New Jersey has been in danger West’s miss. Soon after, Posey’s 3 of the worst record ever since put the Hornets up 96-86 with opening the season with an NBA­
2:19 to go. The Lakers started record, 18-game losing streak. fouling, but the Hornets hit their But the Nets have now won three next eight free throws — four by of four, taking the pressure off the Paul and two each by Thornton remainder of their schedule. 



page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 30, 2010 
Rawls 
continued from page 20 
two over par. This finish beat Brophy’s score of last year and Park’s this season. Park went on to finished tied for 43rd with an overall score of 234, 18 above par. She had difficulty finding consistency as the weekend went on, hav­ing seven bogeys and two double birdies in the final round, but she managed to come back with one birdie. 
Sophomore Becca Huffer followed closely behind Brophy, tying for 29th place overall with 230 points, 14 over par. She ended the week­end on a high note, scoring 76 on Sunday after 77 both of 
Wildcats 
continued from page 20 
“His strong play is so impor­tant to our team in that we have an anchor and one who is comfortable with it,” Kubinski said. “I think Doug realizes he doesn’t have to try to be more than who he is to play great golf.” 
To complement Fortner’s efforts, the Irish also had some help from sophomore Max Scodro, who finished sec­ond for Notre Dame, helping the team notch a solid week­end. He ended with a 224 (+11) total for the tourna­ment. 
Senior Carl Santos-Ocampo finished two shots behind Scodro with a 226 (+13). Santos -Ocampo began the tournament in a good position as he fired his first two rounds of 74. But the final round was a major setback in his quest for success. He recorded a 78 (+7) to end the tournament with the deciding factor of three double bogeys. 
The Irish now enter into some of the most important weeks of the season. Next up for Notre Dame is the Big East championship and about one month later is the NCAA the previous days after strug­gling the first day, when she sat tied for 41st at five over par. 
Conway concluded the team score, finishing tied for 73rd with a total score of 242, six above par. 
“As a team, we feel as though our games are close to peaking and this is the time of year where that feeling is important. We are definitely looking forward to a strong finish in Florida,” Conway said. 
The Irish take a week off before they travel to Gainesville, Fla., for the Sun Trust Lady Gator on April 10 and 11. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
Championship. 
The Big East championship is just the start for a wild ride for the Irish. Despite not hav­ing a strong finish at the Spring Break championship, Kubinski said the team learned a lot on what needs to be done to get better. With a few weeks to prepare, the Irish hope to build up a posi­tive attitude. 
“We don’t need false confi­dence though,” Kubinski said. “We need confidence based on improvements we’ve made in preparation.” 
When preparing for the tournaments, Kubinski said the team looks to work on some of the aspects of their game that have been exposed at the last tournament. 
But he said talent does not seem to be an issue. 
“Our talent has never been in question; it’s evident to all,” Kubinski said. “We need to attack the areas that have let us down since our win at home in October and get our swagger back.” 
The Irish will have a chance to prove that they are back when they compete in the Big East championship on April 18-20 in Palm Harbor, Fla. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles give up 28 runs in two losses to Bethel 
By KEVIN BALDWIN 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s dropped a pair to top-ranked cross-town rival Bethel in a doubleheader Monday. 
The Belles fell 14-4 in the first game. Errors hampered the team’s defensive effort, and despite putting a few runs on the board, the game was called due to the 10-run rule in the sixth inning. 
Things did not immediately improve for Saint Mary’s in the second game, with the Pilots scoring nine runs in the top of the first inning. The Belles bat­tled back, capitalizing on base hits with smart base running to add runs in every inning and gradually narrow the Pilots’ lead. However, after a full seven innings Bethel came out ahead 14-11. 
“I told them we just need to chip away a little bit every inning, they did such a great job of stringing hits together,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. “I’m just so impressed with how our hitters did, almost every­body had multiple hits.” 
The team remains confident that the persistence and posi­tive attitude they showed today will carry them through the tough games that await them when they begin conference play. 
“The way we played against Bethel … if we play team ball we should be in the top three in our conference,” Sullivan said. “Today was just a really good team effort, we weren’t shut out our pitchers through well and our hitters were really consis­tent.” 
The Belles will take to the road on Thursday to play North Central College, their last game before their first conference game, against Kalamazoo Saturday. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu 

Florida 
continued from page 20 
ball a lot. They just hustle all the time.” 
While the game against Northwestern will certainly be a highlight of the upcom­ing road trip, the Irish are trying to stay fresh for upcoming games against Georgetown and Loyola Maryland. 
“We’re just taking it one game at a time, even though I know that’s cliché,” Coyne said. “We’ve got to be able to turn around and be ready for Georgetown.” 
The Irish will take the field against the top team in the land in Evanston at 7 p.m. on Tuesday. 
EILEEN VEIHMEYER/The Observer Contact Chris Allen at Senior attack Gina Scioscia makes a move during Notre Dame’s callen10@nd.edu 11-9 victory over Louisville Saturday. 
important game.” The Ramblers (6-12) enter 
Streak 
the game having lost their continued from page 20 last four games, including an 
extra-innings loss to Butler. accomplished last season. Third baseman and pitcher Pitzenberger is second on the Angie Funston leads the team 
tea m  wi t h  a  in several cate­ 
.433  b attin g  gories, entering  
a v e r a g e , be hi nd j u ni o r Erin Marrone’s  “We take every game, every day as  the game with a .34 7 b attin g av e r a g e , 1 0  
.453 clip. But Valdivia said her team  our most important game.”  R B I s , 1 7 h i t s and a 1.25 ERA. The non-con­ 
do e s  n ot  t a lk  feren c e  g am e  
a b ou t streaks. “ I t hin k  t he t he  Jody Valdivia junior pitcher  c o m e s a f t e r N otr e D am e opened its Big  
greatest thing  Ea st  sea son  

about this team and this year against the Pirates; the Irish is to go one game at a time,” will return to conference play she said. “We take every Thursday against Rutgers. game, every day as our most “Any time we have these 
Trine 
continued from page 20 
ter.” 
The Belles expect their success to carry over to tomorrow’s match. 
“It was a huge confidence boost to win all three dou­bles matches and get off to such a strong start on Saturday,” Grabarek said. “That will continue to be key for the team the rest of the way during the season. We are continuing to work together to improve the team overall. We are definitely bonding well together and are looking forward to con-non-Big East games our focus is to stay fresh and work a lot of things,” Valdivia said. “We look at it as another game where we have to pick up a win.” 
After the game the Irish will return to Notre Dame for an 11-game, 17-day home stand. 
“Excited is not even a word to describe how we feel about [the home stand],” Valdivia said. “… Being able to come home and play in front of our own fans honest­ly is the greatest feeling in the world.” 
Notre Dame and Loyola-Chicago will begin play today at 4 p.m. CDT. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
tinuing our success that we have. have had so far.” “We are encouraged to hit 
Calvin will be just the sec-and or workout as much as ond conference possible over match of the break. It will season for “We are continuing to be a good Belles and con-opportunity to 
work together to
tinues a stretch rest some of 
of difficult improve the team our small opponents lead-overall.” nagging ing up to next injuries that month’s MIAA our recurring 
Kate Grabarek
Tournament. before head-
Foll owing Belles junior ing into the Tuesday’s home stretch match, the of our confer-Belles will not play until the ence season,” Grabarek said. following Wednesday against Matches will begin at 4 Calvin College. The layoff p.m. today. during Easter Break will allow the Belles to rest and Contact Andrew Owens at heal the minor injuries they aowens2@nd.edu 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Knights of Columbus dominate 
By LUKE MANSOUR 
Sports Writer 
The highly anticipated matchup of the Knights of Columbus vs. Charlie and the Loaners quickly turned into a blowout as the Knights of Columbus took control of the game from the outset. 
The Knights of Columbus con­sisted of freshman Bobby Thompson, junior Michael Bohnert, law student Lee Metzger, sophomore Sean Mullen and freshman Matt Jackson. Charlie and the Loaners started staffers Gene Pilawski, Charlie Castline, Alexis Wolf, Kallie Kubacki and Leah Jasinski. 
The game began slowly as both teams struggled to score on their first few possessions. Fighting the cold and windy conditions, the teams struggled to keep control of the ball and the offense was stagnant. 
Thompson scored the game’s first points with a hard drive and lay-in to give the Knights of Columbus the lead. However, again both teams missed oppor­tunities, with the Knights miss­ing a few lay-ups on fast breaks. 
The Knights of Columbus began to take control of the game as it went on, scoring on high percentage shots to jump out to a big lead. A block by Sean Mullen led to a pretty feed to big man Lee “Odd Man” Marsh to give the Knights a 11­0 halftime lead. 
The Knights’ defense was relentless as they blocked sever­al shots in the paint and gave guards Kubacki and Pilawski no room to operate. Pilawski even­tually broke the shutout with a driving layup in the lane to make it 14-1. 
The Knights cruised the rest of the way to claim an easy vic­tory, moving onto the second round. 
Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 

Tuesday, March 30, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Tuesday, March 30, 2010 page 20 
ND SOFTBALL 

Streaking to the city 
Notre Dame looks to extend streak to 12 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
It’s rarely good when a team is called streaky, but Notre Dame has only seen the upside of that description. 
The Irish (24-5) are riding an 11-game win streak into a matchup with Loyola-Chicago this afternoon in Chicago. 
Junior pitcher Jody Valdivia (18-2) carries a streak of her own after winning her 16th and 17th straight games this weekend against Seton Hall. She pitched a no -hitter Saturday and followed that up with a complete-game, 11­strikeout effort Sunday. 

Junior outfielder Sadie Pitzenberger has now hit safely in 24 straight games. Her streak is a new school record, as she surpassed sophomore Dani Miller’s 21­game stretch, which Miller TOM LA/The Observer 
Junior left fielder Sadie Pitzenberger takes a swing during Notre Dame’s doubleheader sweep see STREAK/page 18 of Toledo 11-0 and 8-4 on March 24. The Irish have won 11 straight games. 

SMC TENNIS 
Belles build momentum formatches 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
Following a victory over Alma this past weekend, the Belles look to continue their success today when they play Trine. 
The win gave the Belles a 7-3 record on the season and a victory in their first confer­ence game. 
“It was definitely a big con­fidence boost for the team in general,” said junior Kate Grabarek, an Observer Sports writer. “We needed that com­ing off of a tough loss to Indiana Wesleyan the week before. It was a great kickoff to the conference season as Alma recently lost a close match to Albion. However, I think we sent a strong mes­sage to the rest of the confer­ence that we’re playing bet-
see TRINE/page 18 


WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Hot team gets ready to face No. 1 Wildcats in Evanston 
pull off the upset.” point now. We’re past moral All-American Katrina Dowd. key personnel. We’ll need good 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
The Wildcats, who are five-victories. We need to compete Dowd has 25 goals in seven goaltending, and [freshman 
Sports Writer 
time National Champions in to win and believe in who we games to lead her team this goalkeeper Ellie Hilling] will women’s lacrosse, certainly are. I don’t know if we’ve 100 season. have to rise to the occasion.” 

Irish coach Tracy Coyne has pose a stiff test for an Irish percent gelled yet but our Coyne said she believes her On the whole, Coyne says her the No. 11 Irish (5-2) on a roll team that is still establishing mentality is to show up and be team can match up with the team is preparing for a fast as they travel to Northwestern an identity. Still, Coyne the team we can be.” attack led by Dowd and fellow game against the Wildcats, on Tuesday to take on the No. believes her program is at a If the Irish are to pull off the senior Shannon Spencer. who are strong on both sides 1 Wildcats (7-0) and try to beat point where they should expect upset, they will need to “We’re going to put our peo-of the ball. the best. Coyne said the team to win against top competition. account for the many offensive ple in specific matchups,” “They’re known as a team is going to Evanston with only “Look, back when I started weapons of the Northwestern Coyne said. “With all deserved that shoots well,” Coyne said. winning on its mind. the program we took pride in attack. That attack begins with respect to them, they are play-“They play a relentless, 
“The team is coming off a keeping it close and playing 30 senior and reigning first-team ing some younger players that swarming style and double the good and focused practice,” minutes of good lacrosse,” Intercollegiate Women’s I feel we can back off of a little Coyne said. “We’re ready to Coyne said. “We’re past that Lacrosse Coaches’ Association bit to focus on some of their see WILDCATS/page 18 
MEN’S GOLF 

Fortner shines in Florida 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
Senior Doug Fortner led the way for the Irish in their recent 12th place finish at the Spring Break Championships held in Delray Beach, Fla. 
Fortner finished the tourna­ment in a tie for second place as he shot a final round of 70 (-1). He finished with 209 total strokes on the weekend, four-under par in a field of 93 golfers. Fortner tied his low­est round total for this sea­son, which came at the Mason Rudolph Championship. 
Irish coach Jim Kubinski said Fortner’s performance as of late has been exceptional and vital for the Irish. 
see FLORIDA/page 18 

WOMEN’S GOLF 
Irish grab 11th place in Texas tournament 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
This weekend, the Irish traveled to Austin, Texas for the Betsy Rawls Longhorn Invitational, where they took 11th place out of the 17 teams competing. 
The windy Texas course made for a series of difficult matches, but that did not stop them from advancing in the rankings. 
“This weekend was a bit of a disappointment for our team,” junior Katie Conway said. “We have really built up our schedule strength from our improvement in the rankings, and although we beat three teams ranked ahead of us, we all felt as though our games could have been better.” 
Senior Annie Brophy paved the path for the team, finishing 26th in the final round overall out of 90 golfers with 229 points, 13 over the par. 
Brophy ended the third and final round with 77 points, five above par, with 12 holes at par and one birdie on the last hole. 
The first day of the tour­nament began with Brophy and junior So -Hyun Park tied for 12th place individu­ally with a score of 74, only 
see RAWLS/page 18 






