the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Victims,administration speak on sexual assault 
Survivors share experiences, describe aftermath of incident 

By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
After Maria, now a junior, was raped in a neighboring male dorm after winter break of her freshman year, simply walking out of her dorm became diffi­cult. 
“He lived 20 yards away from me. I saw him all the time. All the time,” she said. “It was awful.” 
The first time she saw her perpetrator after he met her at 
see ASSAULT/page 5 

LISA HOEYNCK I Observer Graphic 
THE TURTLE CLUB 




Professor teaches last course at ND 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Marketing professor John Weber, nicknamed “Weebs,” said he lives by three rules — have fun, be nice to everyone and think about turtles once in a while. 
Weber taught his last class at Notre Dame Wednesday after 42 years as a member of the faculty, but said the “Turtle Club,” created by his seven grandchildren, will con­tinue to grow. 

Weber invites his students and friends to join the club, even giving them laminated membership cards and a club certificate that lists the three rules, Weber said. 
“The silly stuff like that is reflective of my years here because I like to have a lot of fun and I like to be close to students,” Weber said. “That is the hallmark of my time here.” 
Weber built long-lasting friendships with many Notre Dame undergraduates during his time as a professor, a Hall Fellow in Morrissey Hall and the moderator of the Marketing Club. 
“I have always been very social,” Weber said. “From the start, the most enjoyable part of teaching for me has been interfacing with the stu­dents.” 
Weber began teaching at the University in 1969. He arrived at Notre Dame at the 
see PROF/page 6 



University officials declare zero tolerance, support survivors 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
The number of forcible sex offenses reported to Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s does not match the national statistic that one in five women are sexually assaulted or experience an attempted sexu­al assault during their college years. 
But Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s know their students are no different. 
“Based on what the national 
see ADMIN/page 6 


Glee club responds to Fox’s hit TV show 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
If fans of the hit TV series “Glee” are looking for the show’s signature combination of song, dance and drama at Notre Dame, they will only find one of those features in Notre Dame’s own Glee Club. 
“Usually when I tell people I’m in Glee Club, they ask me if it’s like the show and I tell them it’s not,” Kyle Nieman, co-vice pres­ident of the club, said. “We defi­nitely don’t dance.” 
Although distinct differences exist between the fictional New Directions of “Glee” and the 70­member, all-male Glee Club at Notre Dame, the latter has not changed their group identity to match the choir stereotype cre­ated by the show. 
“A lot of the guys in the club love ‘Glee,’ and others think it’s the most ridiculous thing in the world,” Michael Eardley, co-vice president of the Glee Club, said. “We haven’t changed our identi­ty because the group has been successful long before Fox cre­ated ‘Glee,’ and the show rein-
see GLEE/page 6 




Mayor will not seek re-election 

Observer Staff Report 
South Bend Mayor Stephen Luecke will not seek re-election next year, according to The South Bend Tribune. 
Luecke made the announce­ment at a Wednesday press con­ference in his office. He stepped into the role of South Bend mayor in 1997. Precinct committeemen elected him at the time to replace Mayor Joe Kernan, who rose to lieutenant governor that year. 
For the May 3 Democratic pri­mary, The Tribune reported at least five Democrats have indicat­ed interest in running. They include: Barrett Berry, a minister and financial adviser, Peter Buttigieg, an economic develop­ment consultant, Mark Dollinger, a business services representative at Work One, State Representative Ryan Dvorak and Mike Hamann, a St. Joseph County Council member. 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Offices stay open over break page 3  Bill Brink’s Pandora playlist page 12  Women’s basketball beats Providence page 16  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Thursday, December 9, 2010 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Sarah Mervosh Eric Prister John Cameron Megan Finneran Sara Felsenstein Andrew Gastelum 
Graphics Scene 
Lisa Hoeynck Alex Kilpatrick 
Photo Viewpoint 
Tom La Ren Brauweiler 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE QUOTE FROM THE MOVIE E F? 





Dominique Higgins 
freshman Lewis 
“We elves like to stick to the four main food groups: candy, candy cane, candy corn, and syrup.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
Laura McCarty 
senior McGlinn 
“I like smiling, smiling is my favorite.” 
Patrick O’Brien 
freshman Keough 
“We elves like to stick to the four main food groups: candy, candy cane, candy corn, and syrup.” 
Ryan Carey 
junior Dillon 
“Bye buddy, I hope you find your dad!” 

KIRBY MCKENNA/The Observer The Glee Club treats Ryan Hall residents to a brief holiday caroling concert Wednesday evening. Three additional concerts will be preformed Saturday at the Leighton Concert Hall in the Debartolo Performing Arts Center. 
OFFBEAT 
Kitten returns home after five years 
BILOXI, Miss. — Five years after wandering away in Hurricane Katrina’s aftermath, a gray and white cat named Scrub has been reunited with his Mississippi family 
The Humane Society of South Mississippi says Scrub was identified by an implanted microchip. The 7-year-old cat was brought to the shelter by a Gulfport woman who’d fed him as a stray the past couple of months but wor­ried about his safety dur­ing a cold snap. 
Scrub’s owner, Jennifer Noble, tells The Sun Herald newspaper that she was skeptical at first when she received a call from the shelter. But by the end of the first night back, Scrub had snuggled in bed with one of her boys. 
The woman who’d been feeding him lives about 15 miles away. Noble says Scrub is in excellent con­dition 
Calif. library book returned 74 years overdue 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. — A California woman is proving it’s never too late to make things right. 
Ninety -five -year-old Hazel Severson of Sacramento says a friend found a book that Severson’s late husband had borrowed from an Amador County library in 1936 while sorting through things for a garage sale. 
She knew what she had to do: return the book and offer to pay the overdue fee — a whopping $2,701. 
Severson told the Sacramento Bee that she and her husband Howard were newlyweds back when he checked out the hardback, “Seaplane Solo,” about Sir Francis Chichester’s 1930 solo flight across the Tasman Sea. 
Luckily for Severson, the library didn’t charge her the fee, though it did accept a small donation when she stopped by on Oct. 13. 
Today Tonight FRIDAY SATURDAY 


Stephen Elser 
freshman Fisher 
“I like smiling, smiling is my favorite.” 
IN BRIEF 
Free Fair Trade coffee will be given out today from 9 to 
11:30 a.m. in DeBartolo Hall, and from 1:30 to 3:30 p.m. in LaFortune Student Center. Bring your own reusable mug or cup. Cream and sugar will be provided. 
The Peter Claver Catholic Worker will host a Hospitality Lunch today at 11:45 a.m. The lunch will take place in Geddes Hall. A $5 donation is asked for the lunch and addi­tional donations are welcome. 
The film “High and Low” will be shown today at 6:30 
p.m. in the Debartolo Performing Arts Center.A wealthy industrialist is pushed to the limit when his family targeted by ruthless kidnappers. Tickets cost from 
$3 to $6. 
“A Kodachrome Christmas” will be performed today at 7 
p.m. in the Debartolo Performing Arts Center. The performance was written and directed by Pat Hazell. Tickets cost from $8 to $30. 
Starting Friday, Recsports will offer a range of free classes. All classes from Dec. 10-15 are free. Treat yourself to a study break and work off that end-of-semester stress. Classes are on a first come, first serve basis. 
The Undertones will per­form a Christmas Concert Friday from 8 to 10 p.m. on the Washington Hall Main Stage. Tickets are $5 a piece and can be purchased at the LaFortune Box Office or from any of the Undertones. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



SUNDAY MONDAY 


Thursday, December 9, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 



Group commends soccer team 

a record of 21-2-2 and their senior class finished their four-year career with a record of 87-12-5,” the resolution said. 
Sunday marked the team’s third national championship and the eighth national cham­pionship appearance in the program’s history. 
The resolution specifically congratulated the leadership of Coaches Randy Waldrum, Dawn Greathouse, Ken Nuber and Jeannette Boudway and captains Lauren Fowlkes and Jessica Schuveiller, and it included the names of all team members. 
The senators also debated whether to include the name of the senior student manager in the resolution. 
O’Neill Hall senator Michael Ryan said a resolution could not possibly acknowledge all the people who support the soccer team. 
“I do not think it is fair to just include that one person because there are a bunch of other people who contributed 



By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Student Senate passed a res­olution Wednesday congratu­lating the Notre Dame women’s soccer team on its victory in the national championship game. 
“The Notre Dame Women’s Soccer team beat the previous­ly unbeaten and No. 1 ranked Stanford Women’s Soccer team to win the 2010 NCAA National Championship on Dec. 5,” the resolution said. 
Student body president Andrew Bell said each member of the team and the coaching staff will receive a copy of the resolution along with a con­gratulatory letter. 
Oversight chair Paige Becker said the team’s dedication deserved praise from student government. 

“Historically, the Oversight 

Committee has always done a resolution to congratulate really outstand­ing athletic achievements like a national championship,” Becker said. “We just wanted to recognize their hard work 
“We just wanted to recognize their hard work and how well it paid off during the game.” 
Paige Becker Oversight chair 

and how well it paid off during the game.” 
The resolution also acknowl­edged the team’s performance throughout the season. 
“The Women’s Soccer team finished their 2010 season with to the team,” Ryan said. “By including them we still leave out so many people.” 
The Senate decided the resoluti on could still be supportive of the team with­out including 
the extra name of the student manager. 
The resolution passed unani­mously. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 




Offices stay busy over winter break 

By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Even though students will leave Notre Dame next week for winter break, the Office of Financial Aid will “seem just as busy,” student service repre­sentative Lynn Pershing said. 
Most offices around campus, including the Office of Financial Aid, will remain open until Dec. 23 and reopen again Jan 3 after a short break. 
“It’s just our normal busi­ness,” Pershing said. “We still get calls, grad students are still here.” 
Samuel Gaglio, assistant dean of the Mendoza College of Business, said faculty from Mendoza use the break as a time to catch up on things, as well as plan ahead for the future. 
“It’s a great time to take care of the paperwork and preplan­ning that makes it possible to spend time advising [students] while [they are] on campus,” Gaglio said. 
Until Dec 23., Gaglio and the rest of the college will focus on taking care of end of the semester issues, such as grades and 


registering for “It’s just our normal on campus.” 
the spring business. We still get Ava Preacher, semester. an assistant dean 
calls, grad students
“We are still for the College of 
are still here.” 
assisting stu-Arts and Letters, dents who ask said her office about schedul-Lynn Pershing doesn’t make ing problems. appointments 
student service 
We do gradua-from the last 
representative
tion checks,” class day until Gaglio said. Offce of Financial Aid the first day 
break is the diploma ceremony in May. 
“We’re gearing up for the spring semester, as well as looking at the end of the spring semester,” Marnocha said. 
The Office of the Dean will also concentrate on finishing faculty appointments for the spring, as well as considering promotion and tenure packets. 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) is one department that will not have a break for the holidays. Dave Chapman, assistant director of NDSP, said his staff will remain at Notre Dame for the duration of the break. 
“We’re here 24 hours a day, seven days a week,” Chapman said. 
NDSP will do most of its nor­mal duties, Chapman said, such as walking through the buildings on campus and patrolling the parking lots. One additional job they have over break is to make sure students’ doors remain locked. 
“We continually check the dorms and make sure all the doors are locked on a daily basis,” Chapman said. “This is an open campus, so even though students are gone, the public still comes 
“There are numerous issues students may have.” When the faculty comes back to campus in 2011, they will look ahead to the spring semester. 
One focus of Mendoza is to make sure that every student is on track for graduation. Gaglio said while seniors are the top priority, they also check to see that juniors and sophomores are taking the classes they need to be taking. 
“This is when we can go in-depth with the 1,800 students we have,” Gaglio said. 
In the Office of the Dean in the College of Arts and Letters, the faculty is looking even fur­ther ahead. Mo Marnocha, a personnel and operations spe­cialist in the office, said one event they begin planning over back, but they 
still handle many student concerns. 
“We handle emergencies, exam problems, registration problems,” Preacher said. “We also deal with transfer and readmitted students and preparing for them.” 
Although Marnocha agreed break is a great time to fix problems and catch up on the past semester, she said the Office of the Dean in the College of Arts and Letters will mainly use the break to plan ahead for the future. 
“We’re always working ahead,” Marnocha said. “We’re cleaning up some tail end stuff, but we’re always looking for­ward.” 
Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, December 9, 2010 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATAION 

Group reflects on semester, sets goals 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s Student Gove rnment Association (SGA) did end-of-semester housekeeping Wednesday night by discussing what has gone right so far and assess­ing goals that still need to be accomplished. 
The executives held individ­ual meetings with the mem­bers of the Board and said its members agreed th ey had succeeded on several fronts: a good team atmosphere, successful commissioners and increased visibility on cam­pus, student body president Rachael Chesley said. 
“These are things we virtu­ally heard from everybody,” she said. “Most people com­mented on the foundation of a team. They feel as SGA, everyone is working together as a team.” 
At the beginning of the aca­demic year, SGA commission­ers and executives went on a retreat together to build camaraderie, Chesley said. The Board said this made commissioners more success­ful in their positions. 
Chesley said commissioners feel comfortable enough to really “take action” this year. 
The majority of the Board also said they have improved at “reaching out to the stu­dent body as a whole,” Laura Smith, student body vice president, said. 
“Everyone mentioned they feel SGA is much more visible this year through events tak­ing place and also through emails and keeping the office open,” Chesley said. 
Kelly Lyons, president of the Class of 2011, said she has seen a huge shift since last year’s SGA. 
“Last year, I didn’t really know what SGA was or what it was a part of, but I feel like this year, that has changed a lot,” Lyons said. 
SGA then discussed changes that could be made and improvements that need to be implemented in the coming semester. 
Members said they need to improve communication between the Finance Committee — which reviews sponsorship requests from clubs and organizations on campus — and the larger board. 
“Eve ryone, overall, said they like how instead of spending the whole time on hear ing sponsorships and voting who gets what in the larger meetings, we can deal with other things, but you also want to know where the money is going,” Chesley said. 
Starting next sem ester, there will be minute -long reports about how the money is spent, she said. 
Members also suggested a State of the Union address to let the campus co mmunity know what SGA is doing and to let “students know this is actually what we’ve been doing and we haven’t been hiding,” Emily Skirtich, chief of staff, said. 
Finally, the group discussed major projects they would like to see done in the spring. 
The Board wished to address the technology issues on campus, such as the lack of printers, the possibility of adding bike racks on campus, improving its recently launched website and com­pleting the Le Mans Hall basement renovations, which when completed will be a common area for students. 
Chesle y reminded the Board that the April 1 turnover date will approach quickl y when the staff returns for the spring semes­ter. 
“The projects that we pick, we need to jump on th em right when we get back,” she said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 





Students celebrate Kwanzaa 

African Americans honor deceased loved ones, offer libations 
fessor of Religious Studies, 

By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
said the table adornments
News Writer 
were important. There were 
seven candles — each rep-
Kw anzaa ma y not sta rt resenting a different princi­until Dec. 26, but the ple — a bas ket of fru its, Sisters of Nefertiti and the cultural books Multicultural Service and and art, the 
This relates to the idea of “taking on others’ problems so that they become your own,” Call said. 
Sophomore Joi Pugh pre­
sented on cooperative eco­nom ics. As an accounting 
Student Program (MSSP) of libation cup and major, Pugh 
“The emphasis is 
Saint Mary ’s held a pre -corn. said she under-
more on 
Kwanzaa event to help stu-Davis said the s t a n d s t h e dents pre pare for the ear s of cor n reconnecting with import ance of upcoming holiday. represented the hav ing mone y, 
your heritage 
“[Kwanzaa] is an African children of the but as a volun­
through the types 
American Holiday th at is world. Even if a teer, she said it based on an African cele-family ha s no of gifts you give.” is also impor ­brati on of fir st fruits, ” children, mem-tant to give Stephanie Bridges, director ber s are sti ll donatio ns to 
Stephanie Bridges
of MSSP, said. “African encourage d to those less fortu­
director of MSSP
Americans celebrate it as a place two ears nate. 
way to reconnect with their heritage, family and com­munity.” 
Students and faculty pre­sented th e traditi ons of Kwan zaa and outlined Kwanzaa’s seven principles 
— unity, self-determination, 
coll ecti ve wo rk and responsibility, coope rative eco nomics, purpose, cre­ativity and faith. 
Participants were encour­aged to offer a water liba­tion, or sacri­fice, to their loved on es who had died. By saying the 
“[Kwanzaa] is an African American holiday hat is based on an African celebration of frst fruits.” 
Stephanie Bridges director of MSSP 
pretati ons of Kwanzaa’s prin­ciples. 
Carri e Call, dire ctor of th e Office of Civic and Social Eng agement , presented on the principle of col­lective work and r e s p o n s i b i l i t y. 
S h e  s a i d  t h i s  
p r i n c i p l e  i s  
i m p o r t a n t  i n  
d a i l y  l i f e  
b e c a u s e  o n e  

loved one’s name out loud, thi ng that helps peo ple the participant asked for overcome their differences their presence at the event. is a common goal, or collec-
Stacy Davis, associate pro-tive work. 
Pamela Blair, 
Sain t Mary ’s ad ministrat ive assist ant, presented on creativity and share d her own piece of poetry. She said everyone has important gifts to dis­cover. 
“How you positively carry yourself through th e day has the way to peacefully affect others,” she said. 
Bridges said Kwanzaa is similar to other holidays celebrated at this time of year. 
“The basics are the same in that it is a celebration of family and community love. It is different, however, in that the focus is not in gift giving,” she said. “The emphasis is more on recon­necting with your heritage through the types of gifts you give.” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
of corn on th e table, signifying their strife to make life bet­ter for those who com e after them. 
Various members of the Sain t Mary ’s communi ty presented and offered inter­


Thursday, December 9, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Dame later that year, Maria said. Other survivors of sexual 



Assault 
assault said they have ques­
continued from page 1 
a party, forced her onto a couch in his dorm room and had sex with her, she threw up “instant­ly.” After that, she had panic attacks every time she saw him. 
But for Maria, these physical symptoms would only be the beginning of a long battle with the legal system, the University and herself to regain her sense of justice, faith and self-worth. 
The Observer changed the names of sources in this article to protect the identity of victims of a crime. 
Maria reached out for help immediately — telling her friends and the Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP), obtaining a rape kit at the hospital and, ultimately, pressing charges. 
She took her perpetrator to court in St. Joseph 
tioned whether what happened to them can be considered sexu­al assault. 
Natalie, a junior, attended a University-sponsored event in South Dining Hall one night dur­ing her freshman year and went into the entrance of the dining hall to put her coat and scarf in a cubby. 
An acquaintance, who had previously asked for her number after class, approached Natalie. She said she did not know him well enough to remember his name at the time. 
“One second, I think I was just putting my stuff into the cubbies and the next second, he was just grabbing me and trying to fondle me and feel me up,” she said. 
He wrapped his arms around her, whispered into her ear and attempted to grab her breasts. Natalie tried to get out of the 
tight hold he had 

County, but he was her in, but backed 
“Having Notre
not charged. into a wall. 
Dame tell me this
“They didn’t Finally, the male have enough evi-didn’t happen was student let her go dence to prosecute and she immediate-
like being raped
him,” Maria said. ly left the event. 
all over again.” 
“Basically, I didn’t She did not report have any bruises. I the incident to the wasn’t beaten or Maria University. anything like that.” “I was just really 
survivor of sexual 
The next step happy to leave. I
assault 
was to take it to didn’t really think the University’s what had happened Office of Residence Life and to me was assault,” she said. Housing (ORLH), which held a “Later, I realized it was.” disciplinary hearing — the more For Kristen, now a senior, the formal and serious of meetings involvement of alcohol made it 
— for the male student. But the difficult to know whether she panel that heard his case did not had consented to sex with a find the student responsible for male student during her fresh-sexual misconduct, and he grad-man year. uated with a degree from Notre She woke up one morning hanging off the side of her bed Maria went into the ORLH and had no idea how she had hearing knowing she would gotten there. When a friend most likely not be successful, but asked her what boy had been in went through the “long and her bed the previous night, painful process” because she Kristen had no idea. She nar-wanted the administration to rowed it down, and one male have written record of the inci­student admitted to having sex dent. with her. “I wanted the paperwork to 
“He then messaged me a cou-pile up,” she said. “They’re not ple hours later and said I had going to do anything to change if better go to Planned Parenthood they don’t have the bureaucracy 
and  get plan  B  of  paperwork  
because he hadn’t used a condom,”  “I very vividly  piled up on their desks.”  
she said. But it until a  wasn’t friend  remember sitting in ‘College Has Issues’  Maria said even if a student is not found  
bluntly told her  and making fun of  guilty of sexual  
she had been raped that she had the realiza­tion that literally  what they said about consent ... Now I’m realizing how true it  misconduct, the University should mandate some sort of counsel- 
stopped her dead  was.”  ing.  
in her tracks.  “If you’re try­ 
“It’s a hard line to draw. What is rape and what is  Kristen survivor of sexual  ing to protect the students, you have an obliga­ 
just  drunk  sex  assault  tion  to  protect  
that is consensu­ the  victim  and  

al?” Kristen said. “Looking back the perpetrator,” she said. “It on it now, I realize that I had not should be just as mandatory as [consented].” the alcohol classes are for peo-
Kristen got a rape kit at the ple who get drinking tickets.” local hospital and reported it to Natalie sometimes regrets not NDSP. Eventually, though, she reporting the male student who stopped the investigation so she fondled her in the dining hall. could focus on her upcoming Although she said the incident finals. was not “that big of a deal,” she 
She decided not to press still sees the student in classes charges and opted instead to file and the two share mutual a no-contact order, which meant friends. neither party could enter the “That’s when I really regret other’s dorm, and they could not it,” she said. “When I see him communicate at all. talking to one of my really good 
The decision to report the inci-girl friends and see that he has dent, and to what extent to pur-interest in them.” sue an investigation, was some-Having mixed feelings about thing each survivor battled with reporting the incident was only in the aftermath of the sexual one of the long-term side effects assault. these survivors of sexual assault experienced. 
After being raped, Maria lost faith — both in God and in the administration. 
“Having Notre Dame tell me that this didn’t happen was like being raped all over again,” Maria, who had always associat­ed her faith in God with Notre Dame, said. “I couldn’t go to a Mass being said by a Notre Dame priest because I didn’t believe.” 
But she did find support in her rectress, resident assistant and the University Counseling Center. These aspects of the University have allowed her to maintain her love for Notre Dame. 
“It was hard for awhile, but I have re-fallen in love with it because it’s more than just the administration,” Maria said. “It’s the family, it’s the friendships, it’s the beauty of the campus.” 
Kristen said she felt fully sup­ported by faculty and the admin­istration, but often felt the stu­dent body chose to ignore that rape occurs at Notre Dame. 
“There is an apathy among Notre Dame students for this that just shakes me to my core,” she said. 
The University attempts to raise awareness about sexual assault through programs like “College Has Issues,” a seminar every student is required to attend as a freshman, but Kristen said it is difficult to understand until you have experienced it. 
“I very vividly remember sitting in ‘College Has Issues’ and mak­ing fun of what they said about consent,” she said. “Now I’m realizing how true it was.” 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, December 9, 2010 
received a grant to fund it, deals own campus,” Firth said based on When a survivor reports a per-own decision regarding how to 
with issues such as dating vio-cases that have been reported. petrator to ORLH, they submit a proceed. 


Admin 
continued from page 1 
data tells us, we continue to be concerned about attempted and completed sexual assaults occur­ring that are not being report­ed,” Ann Firth, chair of the University’s Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention (CSAP), said. 
From 2007 to 2009, there were 21 sex offenses reported, including eight forcible rapes, according to annual statistics from Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) and Saint Mary’s. 
This school year, NDSP has noti­fied the student body of four reported sexual assaults. 
Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s have groups that work specifically against sexual assault. 
At Notre Dame, CSAP works to develop policies and programs that support survivors of sexual assault and communicate a no-tolerance policy to perpetrators. The group is comprised of administrators, students, rectors and representa­tives from NDSP. 
At Saint Mary’s, the Belles Against Violence Office, which opened this fall after the College 


Prof 
continued from page 1 
same time as Mendoza’s first copy machine. 
“There were only 40 faculty members in the College of Business at that time,” Weber said. 
Notre Dame began to expand and build a reputation as a research university, and Mendoza currently employs almost 200 faculty members, Weber said. 
“The research expectations in the College of Business have just gone through the roof. I feel very concerned about the younger faculty because it is very difficult to achieve tenure now,” Weber said. “That relates back to interfacing with students. It is difficult for young faculty today to set aside time for lence, sexual assault and stalking. 
CSAP worked with student gov­ernment two years ago to conduct a systematic review of resources for survivors, University policies and preventative measures. Firth said it was the first review of its kind. 
“It was an extremely helpful process, and it led the University to take a number of important steps,” Firth said. 
A major result of the review was creating a more comprehensive Sexual Assault and Sexual Misconduct Policy. The new policy defines prohibited sexual miscon­duct and consent. 
“Consent means informed, freely given agreement, communicated by clearly understandable words or actions, to participate in each form of sexual activity,” the policy states. “Consent cannot be inferred from silence, passivity or lack of active resistance.” 
Firth said it is important to con­sider the role alcohol can play in sexual assault because in the majority of incidents on college campuses, one or both of the par­ties have been drinking. 
“This trend is reflected on our 
Business marketing course because of recommendations from friends. 
“I heard he was a great pro­fessor even though this was an 8 a.m. course. I honestly never thought I would make it to every 8 a.m. class, but I can successfully say I did it,” Smith said. “And I stayed awake every day.” 
Smith said Weber constantly reached out to his class and even hosted a cookout for them in his home. 
“He visibly cares about his students,” Smith said. “Of all the teachers I have had here, he has done the most to con­nect to his students.” 
In 2001, Weber was made an honorary member of the Class of 1981 and remains close with students from that class. 
Dan Tarullo, a 1981 gradu­ate, lived in Morrissey Hall while Weber was a Hall Fellow and is one of almost 30 alum­
ni who partici­

“It all starts with
undergraduate pate in the students.” one-on-one “Weeb’s Open,” Weber saw relationships with an annual golf 
positive changes tournament and 
students. The frst 
in the University i n f o r m a l as well. rule of the Turtle Club reunion in late “Admitting is to have fun.” July. women allowed Over 15 mem­us to keep up bers of this 
John Weber 
the quality of group hosted a our students Marketing professor surprise dinner 
and round out the male part of our student body from a matu­rity view,” Weber said. “Having women as an integral part of all dimensions of campus life better prepares all our stu­dents for the real world, a world where women are increasingly playing leadership roles.” 
Weber said leadership in the College of Business led the University to its current rank­ing as the No. 1 school for undergraduate business in the nation. 
“While some colleges still have relatively high student to faculty ratios, we have added more faculty,” Weber said. “We are willing to bring in the big guns to help improve our standing among national and international universities.” 
Campus facilities and tech­nology also allowed students to learn more, Weber said. 
Senior Tom Smith signed up for Weber’s Business to for Weber 
Tuesday evening and visited his class Wednesday morning. 
“This group here has been together over 30 years and we come back together every year because of this man,” Tarullo said. 
The group shared stories about Thursday night bowling, cookouts and golf scrambles with Weber’s current students. They recounted tales of Weber when he stole bowling shoes and jumped into a pond at a local golf course in a victory celebration. 
Weber said the long-standing friendships he formed with stu­dents are the most valuable prod­uct of his time at Notre Dame. “It all starts with one-on-one per­sonal relationships with students. The first rule of the Turtle Club is to have fun,” Weber said. “You have to have fun.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
CSAP and other groups work to raise awareness about alcohol use in relation to sexual assault, and the Sexual Assault and Sexual Misconduct Policy directly addresses the issue. 
“Intoxication is not an excuse for failure to obtain consent,” the poli­cy states. “A person incapacitated by alcohol or drug consumption, or who is unconscious or asleep or otherwise physically impaired, is incapable of giving consent.” 
The policy also details the process by which a student can report the incident. 
If the assault occurred on cam­pus, survivors report to NDSP, but if it occurred off campus, the appropriate agency is likely city or county police. This is separate from reporting the perpetrator to the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH) or pressing charges. 
Students who want the incident to remain confidential can speak with the University Counseling Center, their rector or campus ministers, who will honor confi­dentiality unless there is an immi­nent threat to the student or oth­ers. 
written statement and the accused student will have a disciplinary conference or hearing. Unlike other student disciplinary cases, though, the person filing the case is allowed to be present through­out the entire conference or hear­ing and is informed of the outcome of the case. 
If the perpetrator is found responsible for sexual assault, he or she “will ordinarily face discipli­nary sanctions up to and including dismissal from the University,” according to the student hand­book, du Lac. 
Procedures for handling sexual assault reports are slightly differ­ent at Saint Mary’s because the College does not have its own fully authorized police force. 
Incidents that happen on Saint Mary’s campus are reported to the St. Joseph County Police, and if an incident happened on another campus, the survivor has the option to file a police report or a complaint with that University’s disciplinary office, said Karen Johnson, vice president for Student Affairs at Saint Mary’s. 
But Johnson said the College allows the survivor to make her 
from your studies and more an opportunity to be with people 


Glee 
you want to spend your time 
continued from page 1 with.” The Glee Club’s Christmas 
forces what we are and were already doing.” 
A major factor in the Glee Club’s traditional formula for success has been its character­istically hectic Christmas sea­son, which included two per­formances at the Snite Museum of Art in the past two weeks and Christmas caroling in women’s residence halls at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. 
“Caroling in the girls’ dorms at Notre Dame went from 6 
p.m. to 1:30 a.m. on Wednesday,” Nieman said. “It’s a huge time commitment, but it’s a lot of fun.” 
The club’s busiest time of year coincides with the busiest time of the semester in terms of schoolwork, but both Nieman and Eardley agreed that being busy with Glee Club provides an escape from the stress of papers and tests. 
“Even though this is the time when we all have the most homework, everyone wants Glee to sing for their events,” Eardley said. “I think it’s doable because we’re basically 70 best friends, so knowing you’re all in it together makes it less of a personal sacrifice season will culminate with three concerts in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Saturday, and all proceeds will go to the Center for the Homeless and the Food Bank of Northern Indiana, Eardley said. 
“The concerts take up a lot of time on Saturday, but we don’t see it as giving up our Saturdays because the concert proceeds go to a good cause,” Eardley said. “It takes prioritiz­ing and time management skills, but it’s worth it.” 
Nieman said the concerts will feature a wide variety of Christmas songs, including tra­ditional tunes like “Sleigh Ride” and “Jingle Bells.” However, the highlight of the concert program for many Glee Club members is singing a number of nontraditional carols. 
“We are singing calypso and Latin American carols, but one of our favorites is an African song that includes minimal choreography,” Nieman said. 
In addition to participating in all of Glee Club’s performances during the year, the 12 mem­bers of The Undertones, Notre Dame’s all-male a cappella group, will perform their biggest concert of the year 
“Studies show that a woman who has been sexually assaulted suffers a lost sense of control,” she said. “It must be her choice whether she files a police report, seeks medical attention, speaks with the prosecutor, seeks counsel­ing, etc. 
“At the end of the day these decisions are hers and hers alone.” 
Firth emphasized that sexual assault is “unacceptable” and will not be tolerated at Notre Dame. Specifically, she said sexual assault contradicts the University’s foun­dational purpose to promote the formation of an “authentic human community graced by the Spirit of Christ.” 
“We seek to embody the notion that all persons have inherent dig­nity and worth as creations of a loving God,” Firth said. “Whenever we act without respect, reverence and responsibility, we deny this fundamental truth. 
“Sexual violence is antithetical to the values of our community and can have no place among us.” 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
Friday night. 
Nieman, a member of both groups, said The Undertones have been giving small con­certs in female dorms to pro­mote the main concert, which will feature mostly pop music arranged by members of the group. 
These concerts also prepare the group for its winter break trip to Vail and Denver, Colo., for a week of singing and ski­ing. 
Despite the Glee Club’s packed schedule, both Nieman and Eardley said they believe the members of the group enjoy the spirit of the Christmas season more than any other time of year, espe­cially because they spend so much time with each other. 
“Christmas is definitely the best season, and I think most of the guys would agree,” Nieman said. “We work hard to learn all the music, but it’s a blast because we have a good time as ‘brothers in song,’ as we like to call ourselves. 
The Glee Club’s Christmas concerts will take place at 2:30 p.m., 6 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, and tickets are avail­able the Center or at per­formingarts.nd.edu. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 


Thursday, December 9, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

WikiLeakssupportershackcreditsites 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The web­sites for Visa and MasterCard were inaccessi­ble for parts of Wednesday, likely the result of attacks by WikiLeaks supporters who are angry that the cred­it card companies had stopped processing dona­tions to the organization. 
Both MasterCard and Visa said that cardholders ’ accounts were not at risk and that people could con­tinue using their credit cards throughout the day. 
Supporters of the WikiLeaks, which has released thousands of classi­fied government documents in recent weeks, said they would attack companies and groups hostile to the site and its founder. An Internet group operating under the label “Operation Payback” claimed responsibility for the MasterCard and Visa problems in messages on Twitter and elsewhere. 
MasterCard ’s troubles began in early morning Eastern time and by mid-afternoon, its website was once again operational. But the hacker group appeared to be preparing for its next target, Visa Inc., and by about 4 p.m. EDT the com­pany ’s corporate website was inaccessible. The site appeared to be functioning once again after 6 p.m. EDT. 
Spokesman Ted Carr said Visa’s processing network, which handles cardholder 
transactions,  was working  
normally.  
T h e  h a c k i n g  g r o u p  

Anonymous, known for pre­vious attacks on the Church 

of Scientology and Kiss bassist Gene Simmons, is distributing software tools to allow anyone with a com­puter and an Internet con­nection to join in the attacks as part of “Operation Payback.” Such tools are widely available on the Internet and can easily launch a large number of attacks on targeted web ­sites, said Dean Turner from the computer security firm Symantec. 
MasterCard acknowledged “a service disruption ” involving its Secure Code system for verifying online payments, but spokesman James Issokson said con ­sumers could still use their credit cards for secure transactions. Consumers can use credit card companies’ websites to find information about the cards, but apply­ing for one and accessing existing accounts are done through the banks that issue the cards. 
The credit card compa ­nies’ troubles took place the same day of attacks on web­sites for Swedish prosecu­tors, the Swedish lawyer whose clients have accused founder Julian Assange of sexual crimes and the Swiss authority that froze Assange’s bank account. 
Besides Visa and MasterCard, a string of U.S.­based companies — includ­ing Amazon.com Inc. and eBay Inc.’s PayPal — cut ties to WikiLeaks amid intense 
U.S. government pressure. In a statement, PayPal con­firmed that its website has been attacked, which at times slowed the site down but did not “significantly” affect payments. 
In a statement, MasterCard said its systems have not been compromised. Earlier Wednesday, the com­pany said the problems appeared to be “the result of a concentrated effort to flood our corporate web site with traffic and slow access.” 
Such an attack, known as a denial of service, is analo­gous to thousands of people all calling the same phone number at once, resulting in busy signals for the few who are legitimately trying to get through. 
The term “hacktivist” is now widely used to describe politically motivated hackers such as the WikiLeaks sup­porters, said David Perry, global director of education at security company Trend Micro. Earlier this year, an Ohio college student was sentenced to 30 months in prison for hacking into the websites of conservative pundit Ann Coulter and of former New York mayor Rudy Giuliani. 
Operation Payback itself appeared to run into prob­lems Wednesday as many of its sites went down. It was unclear who was behind the counterattack. And Facebook banned the group’s page from its site, saying in an e-mailed state­ment it takes action on con­tent that “promotes unlaw­ful activity. ” Spokesman Andrew Noyes would not comment on whether Facebook banned any indi­vidual users and pointed out that the Wikileaks page does not violate the company’s policies and remains up. 





U.S. citizen tries to detonatefakebomb 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE — A 21-year­old part-time construction worker obsessed with jihad was arrested Wednesday when he tried to detonate what he thought was a bomb at a mili­tary recruitment center — the second time in less than two weeks that an alleged home­grown terrorist was nabbed in a sting operation. 
Antonio Martinez, a natural­ized U.S. citizen who goes by the name Muhammad Hussain, faces charges of attempted murder of federal officers and attempted use of a weapon of mass destruction, according to court documents filed Wednesday. 
The bomb he’s accused of trying to detonate was fake and had been provided by an undercover FBI agent. It was loaded into an SUV that Martinez parked in front of the recruiting center, authorities said, and an FBI informant picked him up and drove him to a nearby vantage point where he tried to set it off. 
There was never any actual danger to the public during this operation this morning,” 
U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein said Wednesday. “That’s because the FBI was controlling the situation.” 
Martinez, who had recently converted to Islam, appeared in U.S. District Court in Baltimore Wednesday after­noon and was ordered held until a hearing Monday. He faces a maximum sentence of life in prison on the weapon of mass destruction charge and 20 years on the attempted murder charge. 
Martinez told an FBI inform­ant he thought about nothing but jihad, according to court documents. He wasn’t deterred even after a Somali-born teenager was arrested in Portland, Ore., the day after Thanksgiving in an FBI sting. 
The Oregon suspect, Mohamed O. Mohamud, intended to bomb a crowded downtown Christmas tree-lighting ceremony, but the peo­ple he’d been communicating with about the plot were FBI agents. 
Martinez wondered briefly if he was headed down a similar path, documents indicate. 
“I’m not falling for no b.s.,” he told the FBI informant when he heard about the Oregon case. He said he still wanted to go ahead, but the informant told him to think about it overnight and call the next day. 
An undercover FBI agent they were working with advised the informant to turn the tables on Martinez and make him think the agent did not trust him. Martinez told the informant he planned to assure the agent that he knew “what happened to the brother in Oregon ... we don’t work for those people.” 
In the following days, Martinez reiterated his support for the plan several times, doc­uments show, at one point reassuring the informant that he didn’t feel pressured to carry out the plot: “I came to you about this, brother.” 
Authorities did not say where Martinez was born or why he converted to Islam. A former girlfriend, Alisha Legrand, said she met him three or four years ago — before he became a Muslim — and described him as quiet. The two last spoke over the summer and Legrand, 20, said Martinez tried to get her to convert. 
He said he tried the Christian thing. He just really didn’t understand it,” she said, adding that he seemed to have his life under control after con­verting to Islam. 
Public defender Joseph Balter cautioned against a rush to judgment. 
“It’s very, very early in this case,” he said. 
Asked to identify himself during Wednesday’s hearing, Martinez said he was Muhammad Hussain but con­firmed that Antonio Martinez is still his legal name. He wore an untucked, white button-down shirt and baggy blue jeans. His curly hair was long and unkempt, and he had side­burns and a goatee. 
No one answered the door at his apartment in a tidy, three-story yellow building in a working-class northwest Baltimore neighborhood. LaSharn McDaniels, a 34-year­old nursing assistant who lives in his building, said she didn’t know Martinez. 
“I need to get to know my neighbors because it’s shock­ing to find out that where I live, there’s a terrorist,” McDaniels said. 
Court documents indicated that Martinez “moved from place to place” because he did-n’t want anybody to find him. A woman inside an apartment that reportedly belonged to his mother declined to speak with an AP reporter. 
His commitment to jihad caused strain in his family, the documents show. The FBI informant reported listening to Martinez during a long conver­sation with his mother. 
“She wants me to be like everybody else, being in school, working,” Martinez told the informant. “My wife under­stands. ... I told her I want to fight jihad. ... She said she doesn’t want to stop me.” 
Martinez’s Facebook page identifies his wife as Naimah Ismail-Hussain, who describes herself as a student and employee at Pine Manor College in Chestnut Hill, Mass. Attempts to reach her were not immediately successful. 
According to the court docu­ments, the informant first con­tacted the FBI on Oct. 8 after communicating with Martinez through Facebook, where he had posted notes that alluded to jihad. 
“The sword is cummin the reign of oppression is about 2 cease,” Martinez wrote in one post. 
He picked the military recruitment center because he considered enlisting before he converted to Islam and had been inside, the documents showed. 
Martinez told the informant he didn’t know how to build a bomb, according to the docu­ments, but investigators nonetheless believed he posed a genuine threat, Rosenstein said. 
“The investigation was undertaken only because experts had made the determi­nation that there was a real risk,” he said. 

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, December 9, 2010 

Former Wellesley student found not guilty 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — A judge on Wednesday found a former Wellesley College student not guilty on grounds of insanity in the stabbing of her ex ­boyfriend in his dorm room at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology weeks after he team we put together,” George said. “It’s gratifying that the court ... accepted our case and acquitted her by reason of mental disease or defect.” 
Tang has checked into the Solomon Carter Fuller Mental Health Center in Boston for 
observation . After the obser­

broke off their “The magnifcent vation, which relationship. can range from 
consequences of all of
Anna Tang 20 to 50 days, was accused of this is that she is not George will sneaking into going to prison.” return to court Wolfe Styke’s for a commit ­dorm room with ment hearing, 
Robert George 
three knives at which Tang and stabbing lawyer will be set free him as he slept or it will be 
on Oct. 23, determined 2007. Styke received seven what will happen next in stab wounds but survived. terms of her treatment. 
Tang, 23, admitted she “But,” George said, “the stabbed Styke but claimed she magnificent consequences of was legally insane at the time, all of this is that she is not suffering from bipolar disor-going to prison.” der and depression. She Prosecutors, however, indi­waived her right to a jury cated that they plan to push trial. for vigorous safeguards to 
Middlesex Superior Court ensure Tang doesn’t harm Judge Bruce Henry found anyone again. Tang not guilty of armed “The verdict doesn’t change assault with attempt to mur-the fact Tang "carried out an der, home invasion and extremely vicious and cruel assault with a dangerous act of violence that resulted weapon causing serious bodi-in serious injuries to an ly injury. unarmed college student who 
Tang’s lawyer, Robert was asleep at the time of the George, said after the verdict attack,” District Attorney he and his client were “obvi-Gerry Leone said. ously thrilled with the result.” Prosecutors hope the com­
“You know, we put a lot of mitment hearing will ensure time and effort, and that Tang “will receive the mental includes a forensic medical health treatment necessary to minimize the likelihood of her committing such a violent 

offense again, including a safety plan and compulsion to engage in whatever treatment and medications that might be deemed warranted,” Leone said. 
Tang’s trial began in June but was suspended until Dec. 1 after a prosecution expert changed her opinion on whether Tang was insane when she attacked Styke. 
Dr. Alison Fife, a psychia­trist who teaches at Harvard Medical School, initially sub­mitted a report to the court indicating she believed Tang wasn’t criminally responsible for stabbing Styke. Fife essen­tially agreed with three defense experts who said Tang’s mental illness made her unable to conform her behavior to the requirements of the law, George said. 
George said prosecutors informed him after the trial began that Fife had changed her mind and believed Tang wasn’t legally insane when she stabbed Styke. 
Prosecutors said Fife changed her mind because of new information she received. 
Styke testified over two days in June, describing how he met Tang at a social gather­ing for MIT students, dated her and eventually broke off their relationship. 
He said he woke up at about 5 a.m. to see Tang on top of him, sobbing, with a metal object in her hands. He said he pinned her to the bed and took a knife away from her. 


Thursday, December 9, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 


Woman says ex-boyfriend raped, framed her 
Associated Press 
MINEOLA, N.Y. — For more than a year after she accused her ex -boyfriend of rape, Seemona Sumasar said his friends pressured her to drop the charges. City health and buildings inspectors would show up at her Queens restau­rant to investigate anonymous complaints that she was sure were filed by the ex-boyfriend. 
Then she was arrested on charges she had committed a pair of armed robberies while posing as a police officer. 
Sumasar spent nearly seven months behind bars, until prosecutors determined the robberies were actually an elaborate frame-up orches­trated by the ex-boyfriend. She was freed last week, but she said Wednesday that her business is ruined, her home is threatened with foreclosure and her pleas of innocence were ignored. 
Prosecutors, acting on a tip, filed perjury charges against the ex-boyfriend and the two robbery “victims” who con­fessed they had lied. 
Sumasar, the mother of a 12-year-old, just wishes inves­tigators would have paid attention to her long ago. 
“They acted like I’m just try­ing to blame somebody else for something I did,” Sumasar, 35, said at a news conference in her attorney’s office Wednesday. “They did not want to look into it at all.” 
The attorney, Anthony Grandinette, said it is too soon to consider a civil lawsuit, not­ing that Sumasar’s robbery charges are still pending. She is due back in Nassau County Court on Jan. 10. 
When she was arrested in May, Sumasar was held on $1 million bail. That was later cut in half, but her attorney said there was no way she could post either amount, leaving her to await trial in jail. 
It was the first time she had ever been behind bars. 
“I didn’t think I was going to last a day or a night there,” she said. “It was bad. I cried. I prayed. I meditated. I did everything I could to keep my mind from going crazy. I was praying somebody’s going to listen.” 
Sumasar, who had worked for a decade on Wall Street, owned a franchise restaurant, a Golden Crust bakery, at the time of her arrest. Her family operated the struggling busi­ness for three months while she was in jail, but eventually they had to shut it down, she said. 
She said her daughter, Chiara, had to move out of their Queens home and live temporarily with her father in Brooklyn. Sumasar didn’t even let the child visit her in the Nassau County Jail for the first few months she was there, but she eventually relented. 
“I didn’t think it was a place for her to come, but at the same time I didn’t know when I was getting out of there,” Sumasar admitted. 
The rape charges are still pending against the ex ­boyfriend, Jerry Ramrattan, in neighboring Queens. He plead­ed not guilty last week to per­jury and other charges in the Sumasar robbery case and is being held on $500,000 bail. 
His attorney did not return repeated telephone messages for comment, but told Newsday last week that there “is no credible evidence” against his client. 
Sumasar said the rape took place in Ramrattan’s Queens apartment in March 2009. 
Because of the pressure she endured in the ensuing months, she said, “at some point, I wanted it to go away and thought about not testify­ing.” But she decided to stick with the case, saying she was angry “he had the nerve to send me all these threats.” 
After her robbery arrest, she said she told detectives about the pending rape case. 
“I think everybody looked at me as a drama queen, like I’m giving them a Lifetime movie story and you know, nobody believes me,” she said. 
Grandinette said he pleaded with authorities to investigate Sumasar’s alibi that she was at a Connecticut casino when one of the armed robberies supposedly took place. He said he was preparing his client for a January trial when the plot to frame his client unraveled last week. 
“We can’t get anybody to get up out of their chair and investigate the case,” Grandinette groused. “The district attorney’s office has been suggesting that this was a master plot. This was a rela­tively simple straightforward thing to do. You get two peo-ple in an isolated area, they call 911, they make the whole thing up, there’s no corrobora­tion. 

“This didn’t take the work of a mastermind, nor did it take the work of a mastermind to unravel it, to put the pieces together.” 


The Observer 



Viewpoint 

page 10 Thursday, December 9, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Football and fútbol 
I am lucky I was there. 

Sunday afternoon, around 3 p.m., I stood on the field of WakeMed Soccer Park in Cary, N.C., furiously snapping away with my Observer cameras as a Notre Dame team won a national championship. The fans went wild. “Let’s Go Irish” and “We Are ND” chants had been ringing out from the Notre Dame faithful for 90 minutes at Pat Coveney decibel levels 

Associate 
unmatched by the 

Photo Editor 
Stanford sections. 

Mandy Laddish literally screamed for about three min­utes straight. Lauren Fowlkes grabbed the trophy from her teammates and ran it around the pitch, smiling all the way. University President Fr. John Jenkins blessed the team. Head coach Randy Waldrum thanked me multiple times for making the trip to witness history. It was a scene of pure joy. It was a defin­ing moment of my Notre Dame experi­ence. 
There is a rule governing media members covering sporting events that you cannot cheer for a certain team; you must be unbiased and objective while covering the event. Yeah ... that didn’t happen. I wasn’t just a photogra­pher, indeed I didn’t even feel like a wit­ness. I felt a part of the celebration. These phenomenal athletes had not just won a championship for the soccer pro­gram. They had won a championship for Notre Dame. For our University. For us. 
After one of the most hectic days of my life, I arrived back on campus short­ly after 3:30 a.m. Sunday night. I think I was still smiling. Yet when I got around to talking to my friends about the game, my smile quickly faded. My enthusiasm for the win was tempered by the utter lack of interest I found among those I spoke with. There were the requisite jabs at women’s sports in general — “A JV boys middle school team could beat our women’s soccer team” — founded more in sexism than fact. And then there were the arguments that are per­haps unique only to Notre Dame — “Talk to me when our football team wins a national championship.” 
Well, that’s a problem. You see, our football team is 7-5. We lost to Tulsa. We got absolutely punished by the Naval Academy, who followed up that stellar performance with a 31-34 loss to Duke, giving the Blue Devils their sec­ond win of the season. We are going to the glamorous location of El Paso, Texas, for our bowl game. We are not the Notre Dame football of the 1980s. Or the 1970s. Or the 1940s. 
But what we are is a great school, both academically and athletically. We need to recognize that Notre Dame is bigger than football. “We are Notre Dame” should not be a slogan reserved for autumn Saturdays. We are repre­sented by some of the best athletic teams in the country, from men’s lacrosse to women’s basketball to — yes 
— women’s soccer, and we need to cheer our hearts out for all of them. So let’s show Mandy, Lauren, Melissa and Jessica the kind of love we show to Dayne, Manti, Kyle and Michael. Because we are all Notre Dame — and so are they. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Pat Coveney at pcoveney@nd.edu 

The birth of philosophy 
Philosophy was born two centuries before Aristotle when Thales of Miletus predicted an eclipse. The Lydians and the Medes, locked in combat at the River Halys, looked to the suddenly darkened sky and ended their war­fare, declaring the river the border between their two nations. As the light returned to the sky, so was a light enkindled on earth — albeit a light of a very dif-Dan Sportiello ferent kind: 

Bound 
changes in the 
Variables 
world — and even changes in the sky — were not the arbitrary will of the gods. They were, on the contrary, governed by an inviolable order — and, when a man came to understand that order, he could predict them. For the first time in human history, a man had traded the subjective for the objec­tive — seeing the world not from with­in the perspective of a given moment but rather from that of the eternal. For the first time in human history, a man had become as a god — had stolen the divine fire of knowledge of things as they will be. Though it would, in the darker ages to come, dim considerably, this fire would never again go out. 
This is, of course, juvenile romanti­cism. If Thales in fact made any pre­diction at all, he did so on the basis of knowledge that any Babylonian astronomer had at his fingertips — and “as regards solar eclipses,” Russell reports, “they were hampered by the fact that an eclipse may be visible in 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
one place and not in another. Consequently they could only know that at such and such a date it was worth while to look out for an eclipse.” The knowledge of Thales was only that an eclipse may occur at a certain time; that it did occur was just luck. And the fact that, despite his prediction, the Lydians and Medes took the eclipse for a sign of divine disfavor shows that whatever light Thales had been kin­dled was, as yet, not particularly bright. 
Even so, there is something profound in the prediction of Thales — if that prediction is taken not in itself but rather as symbolic of the conditions necessary for it. Thales was not the first to predict an eclipse, but it seems that he was the first to realize that the very possibility of such prediction — that is, the very possibility of knowl­edge — required the world to be a cer­tain way: it had to be unstable enough such that it changed, yet it had to be stable enough such that such changes were ordered — and, thus, predictable. The world, in other words, had to be a cosmos — a system the parts of which interacted over time according to cer­tain laws — if knowledge of it was to be so much as possible. If the world were otherwise, change would be either arbitrary or illusory — and, either way, its prediction would be impossible. 
Insofar as this was the achievement of Thales, it deserves indeed to be called the birth of philosophy. That this was the achievement of Thales is ren­dered plausible by the fact that Thales was the first to move beyond myth and speculate as to the principles of things: all things, he apparently held, are real­ly just water — such that the change of one thing into another is really just condensation and rarefaction acting upon that water. This is, Russell quips, “discouraging to the beginner, who is struggling — perhaps not very hard — to feel that respect for philosophy which the curriculum seems to expect.” But as a philosophical hypoth­esis — or, at any rate, a paradigm for philosophical hypotheses — it is breathtaking: beneath the apparently limitless diversity of things are a limit­ed number of principles, all of which one can come to understand. 
“If we lived on a planet where noth­ing ever changed,” Sagan notes, “there would be little to do. There would be nothing to figure out. There would be no impetus for science. And if we lived in an unpredictable world, where things changed in random or very com­plex ways, we would not be able to fig­ure things out. Again, there would be no such thing as science. But we live in an in-between universe, where things change, but according to patterns, rules, or, as we call them, laws of nature.” Any science, it is clear, pre­supposes these two elements — that of change and that of stability. We can, to this extent, know the metaphysical structure of the world as soon as we can know anything at all. If we have a claim to divine fire, it is this. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his third year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. Listen to his radio show on Thursdays at 2 p.m. on WVFI. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“There is no mistaking a real bookwhen one meets it. It is like falling in love.” 
Christopher Morley 
U.S. author 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Little by little, one travels far.” 
J. R. R. Tolkien British novelist 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 

Thursday, December 9, 2010 page 11 
Story in song 

I’ve always been a closet fan of Nine Inch Nails. The big thing that kept me from saying outright that I liked NIN was the darkness of Trent Reznor’s music. His lyrics in some songs were really angry, and I never could say I was mad Eric Secviar enough to consis­tently relate to Guest his tone. There’s Columnist a beauty to his music, though; at times, a simple melody will play through the crunchy, industrial guitars, distorted synths and sharp, sampled drums. Take “Closer” for example — the instrumentals have a creepy vibe, and the lyrics can be in some cases just disturbing. Right before the end, a short piano riff sneaks in as all other sounds fall by the wayside, and those repeated notes seem to purify the song, like if you turned on the lights after a bad nightmare. “Right Where It Belongs” is another great example of NIN’s ability to be more than just dark industrial rock. Reznor has absolutely amazing talent for capturing emotion in a song, whether it’s resentful anger, deep depression or driving motivation. 
His skill carries over into the soundtrack for “The Social Network.” I’ll be complete­ly frank with you at the outset: I’ve yet to see the movie and how the soundtrack plays into the characters, the dialogue and the mise-en-scène. That said, I feel like I’ve already seen this movie. Reznor and his long-time collaborator Atticus Ross have encapsulated what I can only imagine as the tension of the film perfect­ly. I hear Mark Zuckerberg giving an introductory monologue over the slow, thematic piano notes in “Hand Covers Bruise,” while ambient synths and bass insert a foreboding sense of conflict that 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A eulogy to 4 Loko 
It is a dark time, Notre Dame, for our beloved caffeinated malt bev­erage, 4 Loko, has all but per­ished. Recently, Phusion Projects LLC of Chicago, the manufacturer of the sweet nectar, has announced its intention to remove the caffeine from the product, thus reducing it to a pitiful concoction void of all its former splendors. 
Live in our memories, dear divine, for that is to where you have been reduced. Shortly, none of us will ever again revel in this ingenious combination of caffeine and alcohol. None of us will ever again experience the pleasures of rambunctious intoxication that was once only within the reach of rich frat boys and their Colombian Bam-Bam. 
Dark times, indeed! The simple joy of a beverage that delivered inexpressibly forgettable nights shall die. Nay! Not because con­suming the beverage resulted in disappointing excursions, but for the literal blackout it delivered upon exposure — this eulogist admits some of his finest experi­ences while under the direction of this delectably divine substance. 
So young in its life, so rapturous in its cause, those within the 18 to 25-year-old age bracket and those earning under $30,000/year shall surely feel this atrocity most. A weekly tradition it was, feeling like Pablo Escobar, buying the “cocaine in a can” and indulging in its many fruits. 
For shame to all those responsi­ble for this heinous crime of depri­vation! We return to the hallowed halls of 40s at 4. We return to the art of a simple shower. We return to our earlier world. But I dare say this: at what cost, dear readers, at what cost? 
There will likely be a new bever­age. There are always the tradi­tional standbys. But it wont be the same. 
In our hearts forever, love thee 4 Loko. 
Sam Mitchell 
sophomore Knott Hall Dec. 8 



An open love letter to Jimmy John’s 
As a senior graduating this coming spring, I’d like to take the time to reminisce during finals about one of my greatest and most memorable friends in college, a Mr. James John. Coming from the West Coast, I was completely unaware of your notoriety in the Midwest for sandwiches that are totally freaky. When I was a freshman at Notre Dame, your menu was casually slipped under my door in hopes that I would one day have some extra cash floating around when it was too disgustingly cold to walk 10 seconds from Farley to North Dining Hall. When I finally decided to indulge in a tasty sub sand­wich (delivered right to my door), our relationship grew faster than Lindsay Lohan’s eight ball collection. 
Jimmy, you were always there for me — five minutes after football games, finals week in Hesburgh — you even came to parties wandering around and mingling with drunk people until you found me. I cannot thank you enough for your cutesy sandwich names, (who wouldn’t want a J.J. Gargantuan, Turkey Tom or Big John in their mouth?) and the safer option of a lettuce wrap (also known as the “ano” sandwich). Unlike Fever, Club Lulu is the right choice every night of the week. Every time a random Indiana phone number lights up my cell phone, I turn around and see you sprinting to my door hoping I’ll be the first college student in history to tip you more than 50 cents. Unlike Golden Dragon, I can understand you every time you pick up the phone, and I know you’ll never wreck the delivery van. You truly represent America, Jimmy. I’m sure there are many girls out there, just like me, that think you’re the Ultimate Porker. 
Thanks, Papa John, but I’m going with Baby J. 

Sarah Borrmann 
senior 
off campus 
Dec. 8 
UWIRE 

Finals week is stupid. Everyone knows that it’s impossible to take 12 exams in four days and still come out on top. The only way to do well and stay sane is by fitting in some me-time. So if you’d rather stay afloat than Jenny Hurwitz drown this finals season, then I The Daily suggest you read Campus the following. 
1. Teach your­self how to Dougie 

Stop pretending you know the dance every time the song comes on and do Cali Swag District the favor of teaching yourself. For every hour worth of study­ing, grant yourself 30 minutes of “Dougie Time.” Why? Knowing how to Dougie, (I mean really Dougie) is still cool and you too can be awesome. I admit I’m still learning, but I’m using finals week to perfect it. Dougie-ing is an easy way to unwind, get some exer­cise and hopefully boosts your confi­dence the next time you’re trying to land some dime piece (dime pieces can will become the central piece of the movie. “In Motion” and “Intriguing Possibilities” isolate a feeling of fresh ideas, new connections being made as the characters delve deeper into the plot and become more engrossed in their relation­ships with one another. The darker, more distorted samples and the mysterious, eerie piano line that slips in at “3:14 Every Night” create an image of distur­bance, the mood that something is about to go horribly wrong. Reznor covers “In the Hall of the Mountain King” breaking that tension into horrifyingly electric action, a theme to which I can see some­one’s world come crashing down around him. The seething frustration of “On We March” reminds me of The Dust Brothers’ work on the Fight Club soundtrack (try “Medulla Oblongata”), but for the piano and industrial-rock guitar which grounds it and is something that is strikingly Reznor. 
The level of musical artistry demon­strated by the instrumentation of Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross’ production and programming are incredible. Their work here serves especially to highlight the progress of modern instrumental music and Reznor’s growth and depth as a com­poser of something beyond the label of industrial. It’s music like this that not only takes hold of the emotion of the scene, but also enhances it to captivate and move the audience, whether you’re listening to the soundtrack alone like me, or combining it with what has all indications of being a remarkable film. 
Eric Secviar is a sophomore. He can be reached at esecviar@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




Atypical study tips 
be boys, too). 
2. Schedule stalking 
You know it’s true. One hour into studying and you’ve stumbled upon that random friend from high school’s Facebook page you thought you com­pletely forgot about. Twenty minutes later and you know exactly what they’ve done the past three years, who they’ve hooked up with, and why you stopped talking to them in the first place. Rather than feel guilty for creep­ing instead of studying, think of this as a reward for being such a studious stu­dent. Facing the facts and allotting yourself special stalking moments is bound to recharge your batteries. 
3. Watch “We Speak No Americano ft. Cleary and Harding” 
Now, you don’t have to watch this hilariously mesmerizing video, but watching something mindless is a sim­ple way to decompress. However, I rec­ommend this video. A good friend of mine showed this to me about three weeks ago and I’m embarrassed to reveal how many times I’ve watched it since. If you can learn this hand dance and how to Dougie by your last final, I’ll definitely pay your cover at huskies for the first three weeks of the spring semester. 
4. Buy a coloring book 
Coloring is therapeutic and I wouldn’t suggest this elementary activity to col­lege students if I hadn’t experienced the benefits myself. Coloring has a calming effect and I can promise you thirty min­utes of coloring will help you see straight again. In between flipping flashcards and highlighting, just color a little. You’ll find yourself completely immersed in your picture and impressed with how well you’ve stayed within the lines. It’s an easy way to remind yourself how awesome you are when you’re feeling guilty for skipping Wednesday night class to sing Third Eye Blind at karaoke. 
5. Make your New Year’s resolution 
A new year is a new you, and by the end of finals you should know exactly what you’re going to change during 2011. When the lighting in Homer Babbage has brought you to your breaking point, and you realize the cof­fee at BookWorms really is just water, take some time to map out this coming year’s goals. Even if you just commit yourself to quit eating Cheese Doodles, it’s still a resolution. Never lose sight of your real aspirations during finals, as creating a concrete plan for the New Year is a fantastic way to spend a study break. 
I wish you all the best during finals. Take my study tips to heart and realize it is possible to take all 12 finals in four days and still do well. Be the boss you know you are and learn how to Dougie or even figure out how Cleary and Harding choreographed their hand dance. It’s truly been a great semester. 
This column first appeared in the Dec. 8 edition of The Daily Campus, the daily publication serving the University of Connecticut. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 


Scene

page 12 Thursday, December 9, 2010 

LISA HOENYK | Observer Graphic 


IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Thursday, December 9, 2010 observer Sun Bowl: Notre Dame vs. Miami 
Rivalry revisited 

Irish to face off against long-time rival Miami after an undefeated November 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame and Miami may enter the 2010 Sun Bowl with identical 7-5 records, but both teams took very different roads to end up in El Paso, Texas this New Year’s Eve. 
A month ago, many Irish fans were fully expecting their team to be home for the holi­days this year. Some fans even questioned if Irish coach Brian Kelly was the right man for the job after questionable coaching decisions led to a 28­27 loss to Tulsa the week after suffering an embarrassing 35­17 loss to Navy. The Irish bounced back though, and beat then-No. 15 Utah, Army and USC in succession for their first undefeated November since 2005. 
“It’s definitely been a great feeling, the upswing that’s been going on in the month of November,” senior running back Robert Hughes said in a press conference Sunday. “Coach always talks about fin­ishing strong in the month of November, and I think we’ve definitely made strides towards that.” 
Kelly said that the mounting wins created a “cumulative effect” of belief among the Irish team. 

“Quite frankly, they have some confidence,” he said. “When you go to USC, beat USC at their place — you’ve got to fly all the way across the country, you’ve got to pre­pare for it, you’ve got to over­come adversity. They’ve got game with question marks at “Defensively they play fast,” quieted down. Offensive line 1988 that propelled the Irish some confidence. I’m not say-the quarterback position. Kelly said. “I think they’re two coach Jeff Stoutland will serve to their 11th national champi­ing they’ve got a walk about Junior Jacory Harris entered in pass efficiency in defense, a as interim coach until the onship. them, that air of invincibility, the season as a Heisman top-20 defense. It’s what you Hurricanes find Shannon’s For Williams, the Sun Bowl but they have some confi-hopeful, but has struggled this thought about Miami. This is replacement. will be his first action since dence.” season, throw-still a very, very Irish players easily related tearing his MCL during Notre 
The wins against the Utes, ing for 1,646 talented foot -to the pressures of a coaching Dame’s loss to Navy Oct. 23.
“It’s defnitely been a

Black Knights and Trojans yards, 14 ball team. They change, as they themselves But he said on Sunday he is were also freshman quarter-touchdowns great feeling, the have as much were going through one just a “100 percent.” back Tommy Rees’ first three and 11 inter -upswing that’s been talent as USC year ago. “I’ll be glad to be back and games as Notre Dame’s start-c e p t i o n s . does on “It’s definitely a tough time, the team’s very excited to con-
going on in the month

ing quarterback. During that Harris suffered defense.” especially when you lose the tinue this rivalry with ‘The stretch, Rees threw for 492 a concussion of November. Coach Miami will head of your program,” U,’” he said. yards, six touchdowns and during Miami’s always talks about head to El Paso Hughes said. “You go through Williams added that he had four interceptions. Kelly said Oct. 30 loss to with uncertain-these stages where you’re try-a little personal motivation
fnishing strong in the

the extra bowl practices Virginia, and ty on the side-ing to find who’s the next guy when lining up against the would be very important to just returned month of November, line, as well. in line, who I take commands Hurricanes. When he was Rees’ development. last weekend. and I think we’ve The university from.” being recruited, the Florida 
“It’s not a pressure packed While the fired coach Even though the Irish and native attended Miami for a
defnitely made strides

situation,” Kelly said. “You H u r r i c a n e s ’ Randy Shannon Hurricanes haven’t faced each junior day, but the Hurricanes don’t have 72 hours to get a offense has towards that.” on Nov. 27 other since 1990 — before did not offer a scholarship. game plan in. It’s a combina-s t r u g g l e d , after four sea-many current players were The 6-foot-2, 305 -pound tion of film study recognition, ranking 58th in sons at the even born — both Hughes and Williams said they told him he
Robert Hughes 

as well as getting reps with the nation in helm. ESPN senior nose guard Ian was “too small.” 
senior running back

the first group. This is another scoring, the analyst Jon Williams talked about how “They’ll find out Dec. 31,” spring ball under his belt as a defense has Gruden was excited they were to jumpstart Williams said. starter and that’s very valu-allowed just 19.7 points per rumored to be close to signing the rivalry. Notre Dame leads able for him.” game, good enough for 21st in a contract with Miami, but the overall series 15 -7-1, Contact Sam Werner at 
The Hurricanes enter the the NCAA. those whispers seem to have including its famous win in swerner@nd.edu 



page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Thursday, December 9, 2010 


Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 



HEAD T
Record: 7-5 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
First season at 
Irish Offense vs. Hurricanes Defense 

Notre Dame 




career record: 
178-62-2 
record at ND: 
7-5 
against Miami: 
0-0 





Douglas 
Farmer 
Sports Editor 

Well, it’s Christmas season, which means every Notre Dame student is walking along snowy South Quad hum­ming, “All I want for Christmas is U.” 
Yes, it’s all about The U. 
Unfortunately, Notre Dame and Miami are not exactly at the same level they were back in the 80s, when The U actually meant something. Nonetheless, the Sun Bowl could not have asked for a more fitting match-up for New Year’s Eve. Brian Kelly and his hopeful rise against coachless and likely punchless Miami? I’ll take Kelly and his three-game winning streak. 
Now, back to Mariah Carey. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27, Miami 17 

Matt Gamber 
Sports Writer 
Like USC, Miami has plenty of talented athletes — then again, so does "Pinky Fingers," the walk-on-laden flag football team my squad of scrubs plays against in tonight's co-rec champinship. (My pick, by the way: Woody's in an upset. Not really. We forfeit.) 
I expect this game to go much like the one against the Trojans, where the Irish offense struggles to sustain drives but the defense hangs in there and gives an incon­sistent Miami offense trouble. If Notre Dame can avoid giving up big plays and can run the ball as they did against USC, I think they'll pull this one off to close 2010 on a high note. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 16, Miami 10 Eric Prister 

Associate Sports Editor 
No Lou Holtz. No Jimmy Johnson. No National Championship hopes on the line. But that doesn’t mean that Notre Dame’s Sun Bowl game against Miami won’t be heated, and won’t be exciting. Even though it’s been nearly two decades since these two teams last clashed, a tradition of dislike bordering on hatred is still present. 
I have a set of rules when picking bowl games. One is ‘never pick a team who fired their coach at the end of the year,’ which Miami did when the showed Randy Shannon the door. Another recently has been ‘never pick Notre Dame to win a bowl game,’ but this is a new era and a new Notre Dame team. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 23, Miami 17 




Thursday, December 9, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 

Miami 
Hurricanes



O HEAD 
Record: 7-5 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
First season at Miami 

Hurricanes Offense vs. Irish Defense 



career record 0-0: record at Army: 
0-0 
against ND: 
0-0 







Sam Werner 
Sports Writer 

A month ago, not many people thought 
Notre Dame already watched one ball the Irish would be bowling this holiday 
drop this year, through Ronald Johnson’s season. But a red-hot month of 
hands before the Irish defeated USC for November gave Notre Dame a world of 
the first time in nine years. confidence against Miami. The trick for 
When they watch the ball drop on New the Irish will be allowing the winning 
Year’s Eve, it will be after a fourth straight habits they've developed over the past 
win, their first against Miami in 21 years. three games to continue after a month-
Senior kicker David Ruffer, who is per-long layoff. This may not be the classic 
fect on the season and tonight will find Notre Dame-Miami rivalry your father out whether he is the winner of the 2010 told you about, but it should provide a Lou Groza award, has not had a chance nice springboard for the resumption of to shine lately, as Notre Dame has been the series in 2012. For the Irish, a win content to score via touchdown. But here would also have them as one of the against the tough Hurricanes defense, hottest teams in the country heading Ruffer will be a major part of a Notre into 2011. Dame victory. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 30, Miami 21 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 30, Miami 27 


page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Thursday, December 9, 2010 
COMMENTARY 



History may lead to looking forward 
It was all about looking for­ward the last time the Irish played in a bowl game, in Hawaii on Christmas Eve 2008. Notre Dame’s 49-21 dismantling of Hawaii ended a nine-game bowl losing streak and was sup­posed to jump-start a success­ful 2009 season under Charlie Weis. 
So, when the Notre Dame-Miami 

Matt Gamber 
matchup was finalized Sunday, my 
Sports Writer 
first instinct was to look forward, to view the Sun Bowl as a preview of the three-game series between the Irish and Hurricanes that is set to begin in 2012 at Soldier Field in Chicago. I thought we’d see the New Year’s Eve bowl as a chance to enter 2011 with some serious momentum, especially consider­ing Notre Dame’s three straight big wins. 
It seems I underestimated what a game between the Irish and Hurricanes still means, 20 years after they last met. 
After all, I was 18 months old the last time these two teams played. Until a Wikipedia search Sunday, I couldn’t remember the scores of those fierce showdowns in 1988, 1989 and 1990. Until finding Youtube highlights Monday, I had seen more of Lou Holtz in an ESPN studio than on a college football sideline, and I had watched more clips of Rocket Ismail in street clothes at pep rallies than in an Irish uni­form, igniting Notre Dame Stadium the way he did best. 
I can’t fully understand the Notre Dame-Miami rivalry that was characterized by genuinely bad blood that boiled over in a 1988 pregame brawl and epito­mized by Lou Holtz’s legendary request to “save Jimmy Johnson’s ass for me.” These bit­ter showdowns are what a previ­ous generation of Irish fans lived for, and what our current gener­ation longs for. 
By looking back, especially at the way the Irish beat the Hurricanes in 1988 and 1990, I somewhat surprisingly feel encouraged with where the Notre Dame program is headed. Of course, this isn’t the 1988 or 1990 team, for Notre Dame or for Miami — both are 7-5, the former with losses to Navy and Tulsa, the latter without a head coach. 
But, to me, the arrow is point­ing up for the Irish. What better way for Notre Dame to finish the season than with a win over a historic rival the Irish haven’t played in two decades, during which Irish championships have gone from an expectation to a pipe dream. 
This may be a stretch, but for all the differences between those Notre Dame teams and this one, I couldn’t help but see dashes of similarities, glimmers of hope that indicate Brian Kelly just might be putting the fight back in the Fighting Irish. 
While the 1988 national cham­pionship team was perfect in record, it wasn’t perfect for 60 minutes every game. Against the Hurricanes that year, the Irish gave up 21 second quarter points after taking a 7-0 lead. Notre Dame took a 31-21 lead into the fourth quarter of that game but gave up a fourth-and­goal touchdown with 45 seconds to play that pulled Miami within an extra point of tying or a two-point conversion of winning. 
Perhaps it’s just me, but to hear the praise of those Notre Dame teams and the criticism of their contemporaries, I’d have thought the Irish never surren­dered a lead or gave up a fourth-down conversion with a game on the line. 
True, the Irish stepped up when they had to, breaking up that two-point conversion and finishing the victory on their way to a national championship. 
But consider the tone after Notre Dame’s recent victory over USC, when the Irish nearly gave away their chance to beat the Trojans before rallying late and creating a key turnover in the final minute. 
While the level of competition and the level of importance of the games I mention are nowhere near comparable, my point is, maybe we forget what made the Holtz era at Notre Dame special. It wasn’t that the Irish blew out every opponent, big or small, ranked or unranked, without ever having to overcome adversity. Rather, it was that the Irish did overcome that adversity, that they made plays in the biggest situations, that they closed out games the way championship teams do. 
When I looked back at the old tape, I thought I’d come away disappointed about the kind of big games I’d never see as a Notre Dame student. Instead, I saw hope that maybe we’re see­ing the beginning of something special here. 
Unlike a Hawaii Bowl victory, beating Miami — even if it’s not pretty — on New Year’s Eve might just provide the kind of look forward for which Irish fans long. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

Sun Bowl evokes memories of 1980s 


By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
The Sun Bowl will be the first game Notre Dame and Miami have played against each other in more than 20 years. The games it follows, though, are still remembered as some of the best in college football history. 
“This matchup certainly brings back the memories of some of the great games that were played,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said in a press conference Monday. 
One of those great games, the 1988 contest in which No. 4 Notre Dame defeated No. 1 Miami, 31-30, was listed by USA Today in 2007 as one of the best of the past 25 years. 
That game, dubbed “Catholics vs. Convicts,” thanks to a clever student-made T-shirt, began with a fight in entrance of the Notre Dame Stadium tunnel and a rousing speech by then-coach Lou Holtz, who told his team, “save Jimmy Johnson’s ass for me.” It contained a con­troversial fumble ruling, and it ended with Hurricanes coach Johnson attempting a two-point conversion when he could have tied it with an extra point at the end of the game. 
Of course, the season ended with Notre Dame on top, the win over Miami a stepping­stone for the Irish to capture their last national champi­onship. 
It was Holtz’s quote that Kelly said he remembered the most. 
“That’s classic,” he said. “I still think of that one and go, that’s probably one of the best all time lines leading into a football game that I can imagine.” 
Kelly’s other memories were less specific. 
“The great players in it. I remember that,” he said. “The intense rivalry. Intense. It got downright ugly at times.” 
And it did. Though Notre Dame leads the series, which began in 1955, by a mark of 15-7-1, many of Miami’s wins were painful. 
In 1985, Miami defeated Notre Dame 58-7, and was accused of running up the score, possibly beginning the tension that lasted through the next six seasons. 
Through the latter half of the 1980s, Notre Dame and Miami were two of the top teams in college football. The Hurricanes won champi­onships in 1987 and ’89, while the Irish won it all in 1988. The two often played spoiler to one another. 
In 1987, the first time the Irish faced the Hurricanes with Lou Holtz as coach, No. 2 Miami defeated No. 10 Notre Dame 24-0. 
In 1989, the No. 7 Hurricanes ended No. 1 Notre Dame’s 23-game win streak with a 27-10 victory, Notre Dame’s only loss of the sea­son. 
The Irish ended that install­ment of the rivalry with a vic­tory, though, defeating No. 2 Miami 29-20 on Oct. 20, 1990. 
The Hurricanes won a national title the following year, and another in 2001. 
While the history adds a level of interest that may have spurred the Sun Bowl to sell out in a record 21 hours Monday, players said it was of secondary importance to the game at hand. 
“I don’t think it’s going to matter at all,” senior nose guard Ian Williams said at a press conference Sunday. 
Senior running back Robert Hughes, who grew up cheer­ing for the Hurricanes, agreed. 
“It’s more for the fans with the history and tradition,” Hughes said. “It’s pretty much specifically our task to go out there and win. We’ll be focused on that.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 


The Observer 




Scene

Thursday, December 9, 2010 page 13 

LISA HOENYK | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, December 9, 2010 
MLB 

White Sox keep Konerko 
Associated Press 
LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. — Paul Konerko is staying with the White Sox, Carlos Pena is going to the Cubs. 
Both Chicago teams took care of their needs at first base Wednesday. Up next at the win­ter meetings, maybe: The New York Yankees were thought to be on the verge of making a major offer to Cliff Lee. 
Earlier, the Washington Nationals figured it was worth asking: Hey, Cliff, want to play in the nation’s capital? 
Sure, general manager Mike Rizzo knows the prize pitcher is looking elsewhere. But the fact the cash-slingin’ Nationals even talked to Lee’s agent represents a shift at this week’s session. 
Most every team is a player this week, it seems. 
The White Sox and Konerko agreed to a $37.5 million, three-year contract. The four-time All-Star hit .312 with 39 home runs and 111 RBIs last season. The 34-year Konerko will be part of a lineup that now includes slug­ger Adam Dunn, recently signed to a $56 million, four-year deal. 
“We have made no secret of the fact that re-signing Paul Konerko was our top offseason priority,” White Sox general manager Kenny Williams said. 
Pena and the Cubs have agreed to a $10 million, one-year contract. 
Pena spent the last four sea­sons with Tampa Bay. He had a down year in 2010, hitting .196 with 28 homers and 84 RBIs, down from a .227 average with 39 homers and 100 RBIs the previous year. 
The Arizona Diamondbacks stayed busy Tuesday, giving free agent reliever J.J. Putz a $10 million, two-year deal. Colorado filled a need by getting 2010 All-Star infielder Ty Wigginton and Pittsburgh added pitcher Kevin Correia, both with $8 million, two-year contracts. 
Also, pitcher Dustin Moseley wound up in San Diego and out­fielder Tony Gwynn Jr. headed to the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
“It’s kind of like the offseason becomes fantasy baseball for players, too,” Los Angeles Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. “You always look at who is out there and who might be in your lineup. I think we all did it when we played the game. You’d say, ‘Man, if we had this guy or this guy, we could be better.”’ 
For the Angels, that guy could be free agent Carl Crawford. 
Rockies manager Jim Tracy gave the meetings a jolt when he collapsed around 1 a.m. Tuesday near a bank of elevators. Carried out of the hotel on a stretcher, he was hospitalized because of mild arrhythmia. 

The 2009 NL Manager of the Year was released and headed back to his Florida home with his family. 
Two days after the Nationals handed free agent Jayson Werth a $126 million, seven-year con­tract, they nosed around Lee. Rizzo said he’d talked to the ace lefty’s agent, but told Washington-area reporters, “I still think we’re a real long shot to acquire the player.” 
At least they’re trying. The Orioles, Pirates and Diamondbacks, all last-place teams like the Nationals, also have made moves inside this Disney resort. 
“I think there are a couple of things going on this year,” New York Mets GM Sandy Alderson said. “One is there are some agents and some players who are still smarting from the fact that they passed on deals early and waited until January in pre­vious years and got stung in the process. 
“At the same time, there is some flow that results from the big contracts getting signed,” he said. 
No need to wonder where Derek Jeter will play. Yankees GM Brian Cashman and manag­er Joe Girardi made the hour-long drive to the team’s spring training complex in Tampa for the formal announcement of Jeter’s three-year, $51 million deal. 
Jeter admitted he was miffed when the Yankees publicly sug­gested his older age and dimin­ished numbers should result in a pay cut. When the negotiations bogged down, Cashman said the 36-year-old shortstop should explore other options if he didn’t like New York’s offer. 
“To hear the organization telling me to go shopping and I just told you I wasn’t going to, oh yeah, if I’m going to be honest with you, I was angry about it,” Jeter said. 
The Rockies and Wigginton reached agreement, a person familiar with the deal told The Associated Press. The person spoke on condition of anonymity because the deal had not been officially announced. 
The 33-year-old Wigginton played first base, second base and third base for Baltimore last season. His deal came a day after Melvin Mora, who filled mostly the same role with Colorado last season, signed with Arizona. 
Putz, also 33, went 7-5 with three saves and a 2.83 ERA in 60 games for the Chicago White Sox last season. The former All-Star closer with Seattle made the move a day after the Diamondbacks, who came to the meetings looking for bullpen help, got right-handed relievers David Hernandez and Kam Mickolio from Baltimore for third baseman Mark Reynolds. 
NFL 
Revitalized Vick leads in Pro Bowl voting 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Michael Vick leads Pro Bowl voting 11/2 years after he was released from prison. 
The Philadelphia Eagles quar­terback had 729,838 fan votes, nearly 39,000 more than second-place Peyton Manning, the NFL said Wednesday. Manning topped the balloting two weeks ago. 
“I think it’s just a credit to everything I’ve tried to accomplish on and off the field, just working as hard as I can to change things around, be a part of the solution and not the problem,” Vick said. “I changed my life and it just goes to show anybody can do it. It’s an unfortunate situation, the things that happened, I wish I could go back and change it all. I wish I could take it all back. The only thing I can do is move forward.” 
It’s the latest evidence many fans seem willing to forgive Vick for the vicious dogfighting opera­tion that sent him to prison for 18 months—and embrace his stun­ning return to NFL stardom. A backup to start the season, Vick has led the Eagles to first place in the NFC East, accounting for 21 touchdowns and throwing just two interceptions. 
“I appreciate my fans, man,” Vick said. “Couldn’t do it without them. Been very supportive over the last three years. What more can you ask for?” 
Manning had 691,146 votes, which led the AFC, followed by New England Patriots quarter­back Tom Brady (623,074), Minnesota Vikings running back Adrian Peterson (591,598) and Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers (547,340). 
Online Pro Bowl voting ends Dec. 20. The teams are picked by a vote combination from fans, players and coaches. 
Vick, a three-time Pro Bowler with the Atlanta Falcons, pleaded guilty to federal dogfighting charges in August 2007. He was released from federal custody and conditionally reinstated by NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell in July 2009. But it wasn’t clear how much interest teams would have in the quarterback who once wowed fans with his unique skills, yet frustrated them with his inconsistency when he last played in the league in 2006. 
The Eagles signed him before last season, when he was the third-string quarterback and had limited playing time as a change of pace. Even after Philadelphia traded away Donovan McNabb, Vick was expected to back up Kevin Kolb. But when Kolb was hurt in the opener, Vick took over and showed a newfound maturity as a passer. Added to his running skills, he’s made the Eagles a con­tender at 8-4. 
“It’s a great honor, a great posi­tion to be in right now, because I haven’t made the Pro Bowl yet, but it’s a credit to my coaches, a credit to my teammates, (back­ups) Mike Kafka, Kevin Kolb, guys who just helped me get through this season,” Vick said. “I can’t do it without my team, I can’t do it without my teammates, I can’t do it without the offensive line, (wide receivers) DeSean (Jackson) and Jeremy (Maclin), can’t do it with­out them. I’m just thankful to have these guys in my life, these coaches in my life.” 
The Eagles play at Chicago (9-3) on Sunday. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

6 Bedroom 2 Bath house available If you or someone you care about Buddy: I'm singing/I'm in a Santa: I've been to New York thou-for 2011-12 school year. Close to has been sexually assaulted, we store/and I'm siiiiiingiiiiing!/I'm in a sands of times.
FOR RENT campus - student rental area. Call PERSONAL can help. store/and I'm siiiiiingiiiiing! Buddy: What's it like? for details 574-329-3849 For more information, visit Notre Gimbel's Manager: HEY! There's no Santa: Well, there are some things ——————————————— Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu. singin' in the North Pole! you should know. First off, you see 
Spring Semester lease 2011. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't ——————————————— Buddy: Yes there is! gum on the street, leave it there. It go it alone. Notre Dame has many The carnival's in town. Gimbel's Manager: No there's not! isn't free candy. Furnished 2nd floor apartment min resources in place to assist you. ——————————————— Buddy: We sing all the time! Buddy: Oh.
WANTED 
utes drive from campus. If you or someone you love needs QUOTES FROM ELF: Gimbel's Manager: No you don't! Santa: Second, there are, like, thirty 
confidential support or assistance, Buddy: Especially when we build Ray's Pizzas. They all claim to be Newly renovated kitchen and bath-STRAT-O-MATIC baseball league please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 Walter: [whispering] I think we toys! the original. But the real one's on room. Hardwood floors or Ann Firth at 1-2685. should call security. ——————————————— 11th. And if you see a sign that says 
Looking for managers. For more information, visit ND's Deb: [whispering] Good idea. Buddy: Francisco! That's fun to say! "Peep Show", that doesn't mean 
(574) 220-8867 website at: http://pregnancysup-Buddy: [whispering] I like to whisper Francisco... Frannncisco... that they're letting you look at the 
Call 574-271-0185 port@nd.edu. too! Franciscooo... new toys before Christmas. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Thursday, December 9, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NFL 

Commissioners seek changes to limit concussions 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Commissioner Roger Goodell was planning to briefly stop by the hotel where the NFL’s head, neck and spine medical committee met Wednesday to hear from equip­ment makers, researchers, the military and NASCAR about how to improve helmet safety and cut down on concussions. 
Goodell wound up listening in for a few hours. 
“There was a general view that the helmets have improved, but we all have to work harder to find how we’re going to take it to the next evolution of those hel­mets — gathering all the data, gathering all the technology that’s being developed,” Goodell said. “There are some very positive developments, but there are dif­ferent approaches, and that was clear.” 
He also spoke about the link between player safety and the league’s push for an 18-game regular season during labor negotiations with the union, referring to possible changes to offseason workouts, training camp and even in-season prac­tices, as well as the recent “focus on rules and taking those tech­niques we think are dangerous out of the game.” 
Indeed, as much as there might have been differing opinions pre­sented Wednesday about the best ways to pursue new helmets, one point of agreement among con­cussion experts was that styles of play need to be changed. 
“All the scientists said that if we can eliminate a lot of the helmet-to-helmet hits ... we can certainly lessen the risks of the severe injuries,” said Richard Ellenbogen, chairman of the University of Washington medical school’s department of neurologi­cal surgery and co-chair of the NFL head, neck and spine com­mittee. 
A member of the committee, University of North Carolina pro­fessor Kevin Guskiewicz, is opti­mistic that helmet design and materials will improve. 
“But we stand a much better chance of minimizing concussion and eventually preventing con­cussion by behavior modification. We need to be focused on teach­ing young players, as well as col­legiate and professional players, how to tackle appropriately, not leading with the head,” Guskiewicz said. “Changing the culture at the professional level will be a challenge, but I think the NFL has done a good job over the past several months here to begin that process.” 
Goodell noted that some “team doctors mentioned to me that players in the past would have gone back in had it not been for our return-to-play guidelines” installed a year ago. 
Among the topics discussed at Wednesday’s meeting: u should there be changes to the way helmets are tested in labora­tories;  when might sensors in helmets, mouthguards and/or earpieces be used for on-field testing among NFL players;  should helmets be made for particular positions, so that a quarterback, for example, would wear equipment that is different from what a lineman wears;  should different safety stan­dards be applied for helmets used in youth football and the NFL. 
Representatives of helmet mak­ers were given about 15 minutes apiece to speak to the committee, touting their own advances in technology, offering insights into what might be coming in the future and offering suggestions for how the league could move forward on testing equipment. 
In addition to the makers of helmets currently used in the league, the committee heard from Bert Straus, president of Protective Sports Equipment and developer of a soft-shell helmet with a flexible facemask that he said absorbs more energy on impact. The aim is to have that new helmet on the market next year and, eventually, in the NFL. 
While players can wear any helmet that passes a safety stan­dard, the league and Riddell — whose website notes it’s the “Official Helmet of the NFL” — have had a licensing/sponsorship arrangement since 1990. 
“Riddell is committed to provid­ing the very best head protection to all players who wear its hel­mets. The National Football League has maintained Riddell as the official helmet of the NFL for more than 20 years, but that des­ignation does not preclude or prohibit any player from choos­ing to wear the helmet of his choice,” Riddell president Dan Arment said in an e-mail to The Associated Press. “Riddell is dedi­cated to researching and devel­oping innovative technology that advances head protection across all levels of play.” 
Teams were eligible for price breaks from Riddell in the past, and only that brand’s logo can appear on a helmet during a game. The NFL estimates that 75 percent of helmets used this sea­son are made by Riddell, 23 per­cent are made by Schutt, 1 to 2 percent by Xenith, and a handful by Adams USA. 
“There’s always going to be a cloud of suspicion and doubt so long as we have a single entity that is being designated as offi­cial,” Schutt CEO Robert Erb said. 
Dr. Hunt Batjer of Northwestern University, a co-chair of the league committee, said his “preference would be that (the NFL) did not” have an official helmet, and Ellenbogen agreed, although he pointed out that decisions about that sort of thing are made “a few echelons above us.” 


page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, December 9, 2010 
NFL 

Cutler fnally leading Bears in winning season 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. — Earl Bennett remembers that awful pain he felt the first time he hauled in a pass from Jay Cutler. 
His hands were bright red. The laces were “eating my fingers up.” Bennett was a freshman at Vanderbilt and already, he was getting quite an education. Lesson No. 1 — wear gloves. 
It didn’t take him long to figure out, either, that Cutler was a winner. Finally, the numbers just might back that up. 
The Chicago Bears are guaranteed to finish above .500 at 9-3 heading into this week’s game against the New England Patriots, and that means Cutler will have his first winning season since he was a high school senior in Indiana catching the winning touchdown in the state cham­pionship. 
Just don’t expect him to wax poetic about it. 
Cutler said he’s more focused on the task at hand, with one of the NFL’s top teams visiting on Sunday and the Bears trying to end a three-year playoff drought. 
“I’m not worried about it,” he said. “We’ve got to worry about the Patriots and try to get to the playoffs.” 
Not since he caught the win­ning 12-yard TD off a lateral to give Heritage Hills High in Lincoln City the Indiana Class 3A championship has Cutler led a winning team. It didn’t happen at Vanderbilt, where he set school career passing records for yards and TDs. It didn’t happen in Denver, either. 
It’s happening now, though, after an impressive turn ­around that came just when the season appeared to be slipping away. 
The Bears have won five straight since the bye after stumbling into it on a 1-3 skid and are a game ahead of Green Bay in the NFC North. 
They’ve caught some breaks, getting weaker teams like Buffalo, Minnesota, Miami and Detroit during this stretch. The Vikings were in disarray, the Dolphins and Lions down to third-string quarterbacks. Even that impressive win over Philadelphia came against a team that was missing its top two cornerbacks. 
Yet, there’s no debating the Bears are looking better at the moment. 
They’re blocking better. Their play-calling is more bal­anced as offensive coordina­tor Mike Martz has found his rhythm in his first year with the Bears. They’re moving the pocket and Cutler is taking less of a beating, even if his 41 sacks are a league-high. 
Nineteen of those came dur­ing that brutal stretch before the break, starting with that nine-sack first half in a loss to the New York Giants that left him with a concussion. He did not play the following week in a win over Carolina and con­tinued to take a pounding in 
b a c k -t o  -b a c k  h o m e  l o s s e s  
a g a i n s t  S e a t t l e  a n d  
Washington.  

But the Bears did some soul searching during the bye. They went away from the seven-step drops and started treating the running game as something more than an afterthought. 
The execution improved and so did the results. 
Cutler isn’t trying to force as much lately, particularly in the past two games. He has completed 35 of 47 passes without an interception in wins over Philadelphia and Detroit, posting ratings of 
146.2 and 117.0, respectively. 
A third straight game with a 100 rating or higher would match a career high he set early last season. 
“I think he makes a lot of good decisions, ” Patriots coach Bill Belichick said. “He’s very accurate with the ball. He’s made great plays, with scramble plays to keep plays alive with his legs — both to throw and to run. Has made some big third-down conversions running. Spreads the ball around. He uses his backs, tight ends, receivers. He gets the ball to everybody. I don’t know how much more he could do, really.” 
Cutler’s talent has never been in question, with his rifle arm and quickness. The doubts have always centered on his attitude, his decision-making and whether he had the makeup to lead a winning team. 
In Denver, coach Mike Shanahan encouraged him to take chances and was willing to accept a few extra inter­ceptions if the payoff was something spectacular. It often was, with Cutler throw­ing for more than 4,500 yards and making the Pro Bowl in 2008, but it didn’t necessarily translate into wins. 
The Broncos went 9-7 in his 2006 rookie season, but Cutler sat out the first 11 games before leading them to a 2-3 mark over the final five. 
They went 7-9 the following year, and what happened after that 2008 season is well-documented. Shanahan got fired, and Cutler’s relation­ship with then -new coach Josh McDaniels quickly soured over a failed attempt to land Matt Cassel. 
That led to a blockbuster deal with the Bears and soar­ing expectations in Chicago that crashed and burned in a 7-9 flameout last year. 
Now? 
“He’s definitely a winner,” Bennett said. “You can look at how he leads the team during the game, how he makes sure the offense is run properly. He’s one of those guys that wants to win and he’ll do everything he can to help the team out.” 




Thursday, December 9, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Training 
continued from page 24 
legiate competition. Her numer­ous top-three finishes in various events over the last few months, including her first gold time on Nov. 12 against Utah in the 200­meter freestyle, has proved that she has quickly adjusted to the next level of her swimming career. 
Ryan also swam at Nationals this past weekend, contributing nicely to help the Irish achieve third place overall out of 16 colle­giate teams present at the meet. 
Ryan said her goals are set high for her future here as a member of the Irish squad. This year, Ryan has her eyes on the prizes, name­ly her team winning their 15th consecutive Big East Championship and a trip to the NCAA Championships for some of the Irish swimmers. 

“One of my goals for this year is to swim fast enough to help the team achieve our 15th Big East Championship,” she said. “We have a really talented team and it would be awesome to have a big group of swimmers at the NCAAs.” 
Personally, she said she hopes to make it to the NCAA Championships someday. 
“In the next four years one of my goals is to make it to the NCAAs,” she said. “It would be so fun to be at that big of a meet in a 
MLB
relay or in an individual event.” 
But in the end for Ryan, just being a member of the University of Notre Dame swimming and 
Yankees excited after diving team is the ultimate prize. 
“I love swimming for Notre Dame. It’s awesome to feel the 
making offer to Lee 
school spirit and Notre Dame 
Pride at every swim meet and every practice when swimmers yell out ‘Let’s Go Irish!’ between sets. The girls on the team defi­nitely make it more fun too. There’s always someone to help me out or push me in practice and there’s always someone to joke with.” 
Contact Katharine Mack at kmack1@nd.edu 
Associated Press 
LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. — How hungry are the New York Yankees to sign Cliff Lee? 
Brian Cashman couldn’t have been more vivid in his description after finally making an offer Wednesday to the prized free-agent pitcher. Every other possi­ble big move by New York must wait until the 32-year-old left-hander decides. 
“Hannibal Lecter in a strait­jacket right now, waiting on this New York Yankees. I don’t make it. I spend it,” Cashman said. “We’ve made an offer that’s not easy to be making and I appreci­ate the fact that the Steinbrenners are allowing us to make an offer to this degree. ... It’s a big commitment on behalf of the fan base, and we’ll see what happens. I think we’ve done all we can do from meeting to talking to showing.” 
New York almost acquired Lee from Seattle in July before he was dealt to Texas. Lee then 


Cliff Lee thing,” the Yankees general manager said. “It’s kind of restricting my move­ments a little bit.” 
Lee’s agent, Darek Braunecker, left the win­
“I know my title is general manager, but I consider myself director of spending of the New York Yankees.” 
Brian Cashman general manager Yankees 
ter meetings and headed to Arkansas to meet with his client after receiving an offer the Yankees. New York manager Joe Girardi even called Lee “the prize of this winter.” 
Cashman wouldn’t discuss his dinner meeting with Carl Crawford on Tuesday night — other than to say he had steak — and wouldn’t say whether helped the Rangers beat the Yankees in the AL championship series, putting Texas in the World Series for the first time. 
“He’s a guy that wins. He’s a guy that gives you innings. He’s a guy that knows how to pitch on the big stage,” 
the Yankees “He’s got all the an offer until the could sign information he needs pitcher was clos­both Lee and er to decision-
from us. I assume he’s got 
the All-Star making mode. 
the same from anybody
outfielder. Texas hopes to 
Admitting else who’s got an oar in re-sign Lee, he was tired, pointing out how 
the water here.” 
Cashman close the team is playfully dis-to the pitcher’s 
cussed his Brian Cashman home in job as GM of general manager Arkansas. Lee is baseball ’s close to CC 
Yankees 
highest-rev­enue fran­chise and thanked his bosses for giving permission to make the publicly unspecified offer to Lee. 
“I know my title is general manager, but I consider myself the director of spending of the Girardi said. “Everything that you’d want, and a guy that you would ask to help you win anoth­er championship. This is a guy that has great command, never beats himself, he holds runners, has a mixture of four pitches that he can use at my time. He’s the complete package.” 
Cashman met Lee in Arkansas 
on Nov. 10 but 
waited to make 
Sabathia, his for­
mer Cleveland teammate, and the Yankees hope that helps them in a thus-far deliberate process. 
Washington also is involved and perhaps other teams. There have been unconfirmed rumors that at least one club and possi­bly more are offering a seven-year contract. 
“He’s got all the information he needs from us. I assume he’s got the same from anybody else who’s got an oar in the water here,” Cashman said. “They’ve gone through Cleveland and they’ve gone through Philly and they’ve gone through Seattle and they’ve gone through Texas for the right to free agency. They’re here. So they want to make the right decision.” 
The Los Angeles Angels have been seen as the favorite to land Crawford. Cashman said he wouldn’t press Lee for a decision to enable the Yankees to make a decision on the outfielder. 
“This is someone that’s worth the wait, and I’ll just leave it at that,” the GM said of Lee. 
Still, Crawford has impressed the Yankees while playing for AL East rival Tampa Bay. 
“He’s a difference maker for any club he goes to,” Girardi said. “When he’s up, when he’s on the bases, he’s a great player. We’ve had a chance to see him a lot over the last six or seven years. And he’s a pain. That is the type of player he is. You know that any single can be a triple. It’s easy for him to score runs.” 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, December 9, 2010 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Florida coach Meyer steps down for family time 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. — Florida coach Urban Meyer is leaving one of the premier jobs in college football for the second time to spend more time with his family. 
In a campus news conference Meyer said he wants to make being a husband and father his top priority. 
“I have not seen my two girls play high school sports. I can’t get that time back,” he said. 
The 46-year-old coach led Florida to two national titles but briefly resigned last December, citing health concerns, but returned the next day. He had been hospitalized with chest pains after the Gators lost to Alabama in last season’s Southeastern Conference cham­pionship game. 
“Last year was a knee-jerk reaction,” Meyer said. “This year was just completely different.” 
Florida athletic director Jeremy Foley said he had no “second guesses” about how he handled Meyer’s very brief resig­nation last year. 
“He’s at peace with his life,” Foley said. “He wasn’t at peace a year ago, and this institution helped him get there.” 
Meyer called Foley on Saturday to tell him he was con­templating retirement. They met Tuesday to finalize his inten­tions. 
“He’s put his heart and soul into college football,” Foley told The Associated Press before the news conference. “He’s not sick. This is a totally different situa­tion than a year ago. He just wants to take a step back and spend time with his family.” 
Foley said the coaching search will begin immediately and hopes to have a new coach in the next 2 ½ weeks. 
Meyer’s announcement caught players, fans and the rest of col­lege football by surprise. 
He called assistant coaches, many of whom were on the road recruiting, earlier this week to relay the news. Quarterbacks coach Scot Loeffler told the AP he was “stunned” and that no one saw this coming. 
“We’ll be fine,” said Loeffler, adding that Meyer was planning to meet with his staff Wednesday night. “It happens in this profes­sion. We’re just happy for him. He’s doing it the right way.” 
AOL FanHouse first reported the resignation, and fellow coaches were quick to praise his efforts at Florida. 
“The world of college football will miss Urban,” said former USC coach Pete Carroll, who like Meyer was one of the decade’s best college coaches but opted to leave his job -in Carroll’s case for the NFL’s Seahawks. “He did a great job coaching at Florida. He had major personal issues and health issues a year ago, and I’m sure that he did every­thing he could to fight it off. Now he’s making decisions that are probably exactly what he needs to be doing. ... He brought a lot of excitement to Florida football, the SEC and all that. Everybody’s going to miss him.” 
Meyer was hired away from Utah by Florida after he led the Utes to an undefeated season. In his second season in Gainesville, he led the Gators’ to a national championship. Two seasons later he won another, the third time overall the school topped the final AP Top 25. 
A bid for another national championship fell short in 2009, and the day after Christmas, Meyer surprisingly announced that he was giving up the job. Just like now, he said he wanted to spend more time with his fam­ily, though he also said that he had health concerns. 
Less than 24 hours later, he changed his mind and decided to instead take a leave of absence. 
He was diagnosed with esophageal spasms and was tak­ing prescription medication to treat it. 
The leave of absence eventual­ly turned into some extended vacation time. 
Meyer scaled back in January ­he didn’t go on the road recruit­ing -but still worked steadily through national signing day. He returned for spring practice in March, but managed to take sig­nificant time off before and after. 
He went to Hawaii with his wife, traveled to Rome and saw the pope, took a trip to Israel, visited the Masters golf tourna­ment with his daughter and took in a Tampa Bay Rays baseball game. 
He said it was the first offsea­son in which he stepped away for days at a time. 
But this season he had to replace Tim Tebow and several other stars who had gone on to the NFL, and the Gators strug­gled mightily. 
Florida finished 7-5, the worst record of Meyer’s 10-year head coaching career, which began at Bowling Green. It was the first time the Gators had lost five reg­ular-season games since 1988. 
The season ended with an embarrassing 31-7 victory to Florida State, Meyer’s first loss to the rival Seminoles. 
After that game, Meyer vowed to fix the Gators’ problems. 
“I can assure you we are going to rebuild this thing and build it up the right way and do it right,” Meyer said. “Obviously we are down a little bit. I didn’t believe we’d be that far down, but we are. How do you build a program up? You build it up with tough players, tough coaches and you have got to play better.” 

Meyer’s staff had also under­gone significant changes in the past few seasons, with both his offensive and defensive coordi­nators from the championship teams moving on to become head coaches. 


Thursday, December 9, 2010 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, December 9, 2010 

Focus 
continued from page 24 
“The focus of the training trip will be to load on training, and then a few weeks after we return, gradually taper down training until Big East.” 
While the Irish will spend much of their time working to push themselves into better physical condition, the trip is also important mentally for the entire team. 
“Not only does it give us a time where we can focus solely on swimming since there is no schoolwork to worry about, but it is also a time where the team really comes together as a family,” senior Peter Koppel said. 
On top of physical and men­tal fitness for everybody, the focus will be on very specific, technical work. With many opportunities for Irish team members to race at the Invitational, Welsh and his coaching staff were able to pick apart the technical aspects of everyone on the team. 
“We had a chance to look at everybody’s best events, some­times twice a day this week­end,” Welsh said. “We have a list of things for everybody.” 
Hard work can be fun, though. While in San Juan, the Irish will have the chance to compete in the Copa Coqui, a meet open to all college teams training in Puerto Rico. The highlight of the meet is the Pineapple Relay, in which the winners get Puerto Rican pineapples as their prize. 

“We swam in it last year and it was a lot of fun,” Welsh said. 
The Irish head back into competition in January when they head to Northwestern in the first of a series of away dual meets. 
“As we move into the second half of the season, the training trip will get us back into tip­top shape as we round out our final dual meets in mid-January,” Dyer said. 
They head home after two more away meets for the two-day Shamrock Invitational and are then on to the Big East Championships. Louisville nar­rowly defeated the Irish at last year’s Championships, but the team is looking to regain the title they won in 2009. 

“Having fast swims like we did this weekend always puts the team into a good mood,” Koppel said. “This motivates most of the team to want to get back in the water and finish up these last two months of training well so we can accom­plish what we want to in February, which is to become Big East Champions again.” 
Though the Irish posted some of their fastest times all year at the Invitational, they are looking to compete even faster in the final months of the season. 
“We want to be significantly faster at our Big East meet,” Welsh said. “This was a great building, a crescendo. Our objective is to peak in the mid­dle of February so that we are racing in the NCAAs in March.” 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
MLB 
Francoeur agrees to Royal deal 
Associated Press 
LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. — Jeff Francoeur started last sea­son with the New York Mets and wound up in the World Series with the Texas Rangers. 
The strong-armed outfielder was on the move again Wednesday, reaching agree­ment with the Kansas City Royals on a one-year contract for $2.5 million. The deal includes a mutual option for $4 million in 2012 and is subject to a physical. 
“For me, I think it’s a great fit,” Francoeur said during a conference call. “It’s a great chance to play every day.” 
“When I’ve been comfortable, I’ve tended to play well,” he said. “I’m not the greatest guy when I sit on the bench. I have ants in my pants.” 
Francoeur has a .268 career average with 101 homers and 465 RBIs. 
A former Gold Glove winner who twice topped 100 RBIs with Atlanta, Francoeur goes from his first World Series to a last-place team that hasn’t made the playoffs since 1985 and has posted only one winning season in the last 16 years. 


Thursday, December 9, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Suh brings new hope to Lions 


Associated Press 
ALLEN PARK, Mich. — Finally, the Detroit Lions have a problem most teams wouldn’t mind. 
Ndamukong Suh has emerged as one of the league’s top rook­ies, a powerful pass rusher on Detroit’s defensive line with the ability to disrupt any offense. The only question is whether Suh might actually be too aggressive — but the Lions aren’t about to tell him to change. 
“That’s why he’s here,” safety Louis Delmas said. “He got drafted with the second pick to do what he does, and he’s doing a good job at it. My hat’s down to everybody that’s been one of his victims, but he’s going to contin­ue to do what he does best, and that’s tackle.” 
Suh’s list of “victims” is already growing. The 307­pounder out of Nebraska has eight sacks in his first 12 games and has already become a fan favorite at home. Although the Lions (2-10) are in the middle of another losing season, the “Suuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuh!” calls have become common­place, perhaps the best sign yet that better days are ahead. 
His career is still young, but Suh might be the most feared Detroit player since Barry Sanders — and for completely different reasons. Although he’s big, Suh is also unusually athlet­ic and difficult to block, and he doesn’t slow down when closing in on a quarterback. 
In a preseason game, Suh grabbed Jake Delhomme’s face mask, twisted it, wrapped his arms around the Cleveland quarterback’s head and slammed him to the ground. He was fined for that play, then fined again for a hit from behind on Chicago quarterback Jay Cutler last weekend. 
Detroit coach Jim Schwartz didn’t even think a penalty should have been called for the second play. Suh says he’ll appeal the fine, and he doesn’t seem too bothered by it. 
“I owe it to my teammates and the fans that watch,” Suh said. “That’s what they come out there to support — to see play­ers play hard.” 
Schwartz was ready to move on from the play Wednesday, but he couldn’t think of anything his defensive lineman should have done differently when knocking Cutler down. 
“I don’t know what to tell him right there,” Schwartz said. “The quarterback wasn’t going down. He was a runner. He was trying to score a touchdown.” 
Although he’s been disciplined by the league a couple times, Suh’s almost effortless ability to push offensive players around is a major asset. Detroit is tied for eighth in the NFL with 32 sacks, over half of them by the defen­sive line trio of Suh, Cliff Avril and Kyle Vanden Bosch. 
The wins are still hard to come by, but Detroit is having some success with high draft picks. The Lions selected Calvin Johnson second overall in 2007, then took quarterback Matthew Stafford with the top pick in 2009. 
Suh was The Associated Press national player of the year in his final season at Nebraska before Detroit took him with the second pick earlier this year. 



page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, December 9, 2010 


Achonwa 
continued from page 24 
rest without losing a presence under the boards. Achonwa is averaging 7.8 points in just 19.2 minutes per game. 
While the Irish ran away with the contest after the break, the first half gave no indication of the ensuing rout. Providence limited Notre Dame’s ability to drive to the basket, and both teams headed into the half with the score at 35-27 in favor of the Irish. 
“They really came out and attacked,” McGraw said. “It was a very close game in the first half — then we got in a little bit of foul trouble towards the end.” 
McGraw said her team turned up the aggression to start the second half, as sophomore guard Skylar Diggins captained the Irish on both ends of the floor. Diggins finished with 10 points and five rebounds, while playing a team-high 29 minutes. 
“Skylar was patient,” McGraw said. “She ran the team and ran the offense for us tonight.” 
Despite a blowout win, McGraw said her team still has much to improve before confer­ence play resumes in January, including picking up the intensi­ty from the opening tip. 
“I think we need to learn that we need to play better in the first half,” McGraw said. “I thought we could have played a lot better. We just really were not quite as focused as we need­ed to be.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


NBA 

Allen, Celtics defeat Anthony-less Nuggets 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — Doc Rivers decided not to tell his team that Carmelo Anthony was scratched until after the Celtics had already prepared to face the Denver Nuggets star. 
He learned that lesson from Oklahoma City and Kevin Durant. 
“He really didn’t want to tell us that Carmelo wasn’t playing," Celtics forward Paul Pierce said after Boston beat the Nuggets 105-89 on Wednesday night. "I think he waited to the very last second." 
Ray Allen scored 28 points to help the Celtics take advantage of Anthony's injury and win their eighth straight game. The loss left Nuggets coach George Karl stuck on 999 wins; his next chance to reach 1,000 comes Friday at Toronto. 
Kevin Garnett had 17 points and nine rebounds, and Rajon Rondo added 13 assists for Boston. Paul Pierce scored 17 and Glen "Big Baby" Davis, who had been ill during the week, had 16 points. 
Reserve guard Ty Lawson scored 24 for Denver, and Arron Afflalo added 16 points. Gary Forbes, who started in place of Anthony, had five points and zero rebounds in 19 minutes. 
Anthony, the No. 10 scorer in the NBA this season at 22.8 points per game, was scratched just before tip-off because of inflammation in his right knee. He is day-to-day. 
"I'm somewhat surprised by it," Karl said. "I kind of knew there was a chance he wouldn't go (at) about 15 minutes before the game." 
It was the third time in 11 home games that the Celtics faced an opponent without its star. John Wall also missed the Washington Wizards' game in Boston, and the Thunder were without Durant, the NBA's lead­ing scorer, when they visited on Nov. 19. 
The Celtics lost that one. So Rivers tried to withhold the infor­mation, thinking it might keep his players focused. 
"Yeah, they knew I was lying," he said. "The last time, it didn't work. So we tried something dif­ferent." 
The Celtics got all their sick and injured players back, with Rondo returning after missing Sunday's game against New Jersey, Davis making it back from an illness and Shaquille O'Neal shaking off a sore calf. Nate Robinson missed practice Tuesday for personal reasons, leaving Boston with just eight players at the workout. 
Wildcats 
continued from page 24 

scoreboard during that run when Hansbrough and sen­ior forward Ty rone Nash knocked down two free throws apiece, and sopho­more forward Jack Cooley found himself open for a two-handed dunk. Cooley’s dunk ended an 0-for-11 stretch by Notre Dame to open the second half. 
“I really have to give Kentucky credit defensive­ly,” Brey said. “I thought they real ly defended us. They took Ben [Hansbrough] away in the second half, they face-guarded him. It is probably the most size we played against defensively, and length and intensity.” 
Hansbrough led the Irish with 21 points, only adding those two free throws to his to first-half total of 19. 
“I didn’t get cold. I didn’t hav e any looks,” Hansbrough said of his sec­ond half drop-off. “They just put one guy on me and face-guarded me the entire time, basically said don’t let him touch it. 
“I’m not sure they were expecting me to come out and be lights out like that. They made some good adjustments at half.” 
Hansbrough was not Notre Dame’s only hot hand in the first half, as the Irish shot 56 percent from the field. In the second half, that tally plummeted to 20 percent. Of its 30 field goal attempts, Notre Dame made only six, including one -of -13 from three. 
During the game-deciding run, the Wildcats found nearly every way to score: put-backs, 3-pointers, fast break lay -ups. Freshman forward Terrence Jones led Kentucky with 27 points and 17 rebounds, while his classmate, guard Brandon Knight, added 20 points and five assists. 
“Jones is an amazing tal­ent,” Brey said. “We tried zones, doubling. He passes or makes some jump shots. Neither one of those guys played like freshmen tonight 
— Jones or Knight.” 
Not re Dame led 38 -27 after two free throws from fourth -year forward Tim Abromaitis. Kentucky began its crucial run with a 13-2 spurt to close the half. 
“Finishing the half hurt us,” Brey said. “The momen­tum we lost there right before halftime really hurt us.” 
After that, Brey said he hoped to minimize any fur­ther damage and hedge his bets on Notre Dame finding its stroke from deep once more. 
“We couldn’t afford to let 3’s go in, or we ’d never close the gap,” he said. “We could live with some twos or some jump -hooks around the bucket, and then if we hit a couple 3’s, and I think we could do that, then we’d make a run.” 
Instead, only senior guard Scott Martin hit a 3-pointer at the 7:56 mark late in the second half, as the Irish le arned something they haven’t dealt with all sea­son, freshman guard Eric Atkins said. 
“We learned that we’re not going to be undefeated this year,” Atkins said. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 


Merry Christmas from Observer Sports 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  23  
24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  36  37  
38  39  40  
41  42  43  
44  45  46  47  
48  49  50  51  52  
53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  60  
61  62  63  
64  65  66  


Thursday, December 9, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 31Airport need1Office device34Substituteappropriate for37I.R.S. 1040 line

this puzzle?item7Await38They might give11Rte. suggestereach French14Setting for manykissesa fairy tale39Way to get15Assistant playedaroundby CharlessomethingBronson in40No longer
“House of Wax”interested in16Drama set in
41Undecided:
Las VegasAbbr.17Command
42Album half
agreement
43Space under a
18“That's of little
desk
importance”

44End of a perfect
20Out of service?:Sunday drive?Abbr.
46Grill
21Road hazards
48Impulse path
23Fence builder's
4933-Down's
starting point

group, with “the”
24Small doses
53Kitchen tool
may come inthem55Physicist Bohr26“Charlotte's56Jim Beam
Web” girlproduct27One half of an57Like someold comedy duopatches
28Like the Paris591940s BritishOperaP.M.

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


61Times inclassifieds62Game played ona world map
63Quick outing forTiger Woods …or what thiscompletedpuzzle contains
64Violin cutouts65What a peeperuses to peep66Can't stand
Down 
1Game itemusually seenupside-down
2Check writer3Is of ___ (helps)4Some Windows
systems5The Cutty Sark,
for one6Lifesavers, say7Features of
homemadecameras8Big ones canimpede progress9Montréal orQuébec10Windowdressing11Feignsignorance
12Play ___(perform somesongs)
13Seal's opening?19Conflicted22Photography aid25Portable info-
storing devices26Below-ground
sanctuary29Almond or pecan30Batting helmet
feature31Filthy place32Prefix with valent33See 49-Across
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
WILL SHORTZ 
Puzzle by Mike Nothnagel 
35Pre-schoolers?47Higher ground53Role for which36Light-blocking49TopographicalMarion Cotillard
won a 2007 Best
feature formed
39Part of a homeby undergroundActress Oscarsecurity system?
erosion54Vest feature40French eleven
501957 hit for the
42Ones who sleep55Like a quidnunc
Bobbettessoundly?51Parts of masks58Feature of many43Alley behind a52“Thou ___ Ia ballroombar onTV?dance
have more flesh45They're draftedthan another60“We Knowfor serviceman”: FalstaffDrama” channel
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users:Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions:Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips:nytimes.com/wordplay.Crosswords for young solvers:nytimes.com/learning/xwords.

PLEASANDVILLE 
JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 



JEFF KNUREK
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLEDWORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
PLYSH  

 
 
 
 
 

©2009Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
ODITI  

 
 
 
 
 

INSHIF  

 
 
 
 
 
 

NEW BIBLE Jumble Books Go To:http://www.tyndale.com/jumble/ 
GICART  

 
 
 
 
 
 

All Rights Reserved. 

IN Jumbles: 
A: 
Yesterday’s Answer: 


“ 

” 
(Answers tomorrow) APART DELVE FALLOW BAKERY When the banker’s glass of beer spilled over,the bartender said it was an — OVER“DRAFT” 

 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports

Thursday, December 9, 2010 page 24 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Conference crush 
Solomon, Achonwa lead Irish to dominant victory in their first Big East matchup 

KIRBY MCKENNA/The Observer 

Junior Erica Solomon fghts for a rebound during Notre Dame’s Nov. 17 win over New Hampshire. Solomon recorded a double-double in their 79-43 rout of Providence Wednesday. 
Irish improved to 19-0 all-time steals and six blocks to go 13 points in just nine minutes
By CHRIS MASOUD 

against the Friars. along with 38 points off of action. McGraw said
Sports Writer 

“Erica Solomon was just the turnovers. Achonwa was battling the best player on the floor,” Irish The Irish lead all Big East effects of the flu, which limited 
Notre Dame’s bench con-coach Muffet McGraw said. teams with an average of 16.1 her playing time. tributed 37 points as the Irish “She had a career high in steals per game and 250 forced “She was a little weak, not cruised by Providence, 79-43, steals. She was a force — a turnovers. able to play too many minutes,” in Rhode Island Wednesday to presence.” “We outscored them in the McGraw said. kick off the Big East season. Notre Dame (7-3, 1-0 Big second half 44-16,” McGraw Achonwa’s consistent produc-
Junior forward Erica East) held the Friars (5-6, 0-1) said. “We tightened it up. We tivity off the bench has allowed Solomon finished with a dou-to just 16 points in the second played man-to man. We really McGraw to give junior forward ble-double, recording 11 half after rattling off a 16-0 run created a lot of havoc.” Devereaux Peters additional points, 10 rebounds and five that kept Providence scoreless Freshman forward Natalie steals off the bench, as the for 9:11. The team recorded 16 Achonwa paced the squad with see ACHONWA/page 22 
MEN’S SWIMMING 
Irish head south for break trip 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish head into a mid-season competition break on a high note after placing second in the Hawkeye Invitational. Notre Dame finished behind host Iowa, and team members said they are excited to be ending 2010 with a tremen­dous team effort at the invita­tional. 
“We have a very optimistic, enthusiastic, committed atti­tude,” Irish coach Tim Welsh said. “Our finish carries the momentum forward so that we will want to train hard and be ready to train hard after [the break].” 
The team will get a much-deserved break after its hard work this season. After Christmas, the Irish will then head to San Juan, Puerto Rico for 10 days of rigorous winter training. 
“This is a critical training period for us between now and once we get back into school,” Welsh said. 
San Juan is a vacation desti­nation for most, but not for the Irish. The team will focus sole­ly on training hard and push­ing themselves to faster times and better performances. 
“I can pretty much guarantee it will be filled with two-a-days and very intense training,” freshman Frank Dyer said. 
see FOCUS/page 20 

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 
Freshman Ryan looks to carry talents to ND 
By KATHARINE MACK 
Sports Writer 
After a successful high school career, freshman Kelly Ryan is looking to have a big impact dur­ing her years here at Notre Dame. 
A Hinsdale, Ill. native, Ryan was the top 100-yard backstroke swimmer in the state. She also propelled her Fenwick High School team to a third place finish overall at the State Championships. 
Her impressive résumé before college also includes ties to the Olympics. 
“My biggest accomplishment prior to college swimming was probably when I made my Olympic Trial cuts,” she said. “I think the most exciting part for me was the extremely talented swimmers that were present at the meet.” 
Now swimming for the Irish in her first year, Ryan has had to make some adjustments, especial­ly in terms of the tough training regime. 
“College swimming is very dif­ferent for me and more challeng­ing mainly because we are doing so many things that I had never done before coming to Notre Dame,” she said. “At the beginning of the year I definitely struggled with all the running on dry land and starting to lift weights as well as doing more challenging sets in the pool.” 
But Ryan is still excited for the chance to continue improving her training and to learn from her vet­eran teammates. 
“I’m really excited about my training and improvements since I’ve been here,” she said. “It’s fun to have so many fast swimmers on the team that I can look up to and can push me to go faster in prac­tices. The girls on the team have definitely helped me adjust to col­lege swimming. They’re always able to give me advice and help.” 
Ryan’s dedication to improving her performance in training has paid dividends for her during col-
see TRAINING/page 17 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Wildcats hand Irish frst loss 
Hansbrough’s 21 not enough for Irish in hostile Freedom Hall 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
LOUISVILLE, KY. – For a few fleeting minutes, Ben Hansbrough could not miss. The senior guard hit five of his seven first-half 3-point attempts. 
Then, the hoop closed on No. 23 Notre Dame, as Hansbrough and company went more than 12 minutes without a field goal, allow­ing No. 18 Kentucky to over­come an 11-point deficit and jump out to a lead that it rode all the way to a 72-58 victory Wednesday night. 
“Defensively I thought we gave ourselves a heck of a chance in the second half, but we missed some stuff around the basket, which was really deflating,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “We missed some clean jump shots from some guys who we want shooting it. If we are going to beat a team like this, we’re going to have to 

LAURA MCCRYSTAL/The Observer 
Fourth-year forward Tim Abromaitis puts up a shot in Notre Dame’s 72-58 loss to Kentucky Wednesday. 
make more of those.” that flipped the score from 
Over a nearly 15-minute 38-27 in Notre Dame’s favor span – encompassing the to 53 -44 toward the last 4:44 of the first half and Wildcats. The Irish (8 -1) the opening 10 minutes of only managed to add to the the second half – Kentucky (6 -2) went on a 26 -6 run see WILDCATS/page 22 

IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Thursday, December 9, 2010 observer Sun Bowl: Notre Dame vs. Miami 
Rivalry revisited 

Irish to face off against long-time rival Miami after an undefeated November 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame and Miami may enter the 2010 Sun Bowl with identical 7-5 records, but both teams took very different roads to end up in El Paso, Texas this New Year’s Eve. 
A month ago, many Irish fans were fully expecting their team to be home for the holi­days this year. Some fans even questioned if Irish coach Brian Kelly was the right man for the job after questionable coaching decisions led to a 28­27 loss to Tulsa the week after suffering an embarrassing 35­17 loss to Navy. The Irish bounced back though, and beat then-No. 15 Utah, Army and USC in succession for their first undefeated November since 2005. 
“It’s definitely been a great feeling, the upswing that’s been going on in the month of November,” senior running back Robert Hughes said in a press conference Sunday. “Coach always talks about fin­ishing strong in the month of November, and I think we’ve definitely made strides towards that.” 
Kelly said that the mounting wins created a “cumulative effect” of belief among the Irish team. 

“Quite frankly, they have some confidence,” he said. “When you go to USC, beat USC at their place — you’ve got to fly all the way across the country, you’ve got to pre­pare for it, you’ve got to over­come adversity. They’ve got game with question marks at “Defensively they play fast,” quieted down. Offensive line 1988 that propelled the Irish some confidence. I’m not say-the quarterback position. Kelly said. “I think they’re two coach Jeff Stoutland will serve to their 11th national champi­ing they’ve got a walk about Junior Jacory Harris entered in pass efficiency in defense, a as interim coach until the onship. them, that air of invincibility, the season as a Heisman top-20 defense. It’s what you Hurricanes find Shannon’s For Williams, the Sun Bowl but they have some confi -hopeful, but has struggled this thought about Miami. This is replacement. will be his first action since dence.” season, throw-still a very, very Irish players easily related tearing his MCL during Notre 
The wins against the Utes, ing for 1,646 talented foot -to the pressures of a coaching Dame’s loss to Navy Oct. 23.
“It’s defnitely been a

Black Knights and Trojans yards, 14 ball team. They change, as they themselves But he said on Sunday he is were also freshman quarter-touchdowns great feeling, the have as much were going through one just a “100 percent.” back Tommy Rees’ first three and 11 inter -upswing that’s been talent as USC year ago. “I’ll be glad to be back and games as Notre Dame’s start-c e p t i o n s . does on “It’s definitely a tough time, the team’s very excited to con-
going on in the month

ing quarterback. During that Harris suffered defense.” especially when you lose the tinue this rivalry with ‘The stretch, Rees threw for 492 a concussion of November. Coach Miami will head of your program,” U,’” he said. yards, six touchdowns and during Miami’s always talks about head to El Paso Hughes said. “You go through Williams added that he had four interceptions. Kelly said Oct. 30 loss to with uncertain-these stages where you’re try-a little personal motivation
fnishing strong in the

the extra bowl practices Virginia, and ty on the side-ing to find who’s the next guy when lining up against the would be very important to just returned month of November, line, as well. in line, who I take commands Hurricanes. When he was Rees’ development. last weekend. and I think we’ve The university from.” being recruited, the Florida 
“It’s not a pressure packed While the fired coach Even though the Irish and native attended Miami for a
defnitely made strides 

situation,” Kelly said. “You H u r r i c a n e s ’ Randy Shannon Hurricanes haven’t faced each junior day, but the Hurricanes don’t have 72 hours to get a offense has towards that.” on Nov. 27 other since 1990 — before did not offer a scholarship. game plan in. It’s a combina-s t r u g g l e d , after four sea-many current players were The 6-foot -2, 305 -pound tion of film study recognition, ranking 58th in sons at the even born — both Hughes and Williams said they told him he
Robert Hughes 

as well as getting reps with the nation in helm. ESPN senior nose guard Ian was “too small.” 
senior running back

the first group. This is another scoring, the analyst Jon Williams talked about how “They’ll find out Dec. 31,” spring ball under his belt as a defense has Gruden was excited they were to jumpstart Williams said. starter and that’s very valu-allowed just 19.7 points per rumored to be close to signing the rivalry. Notre Dame leads able for him.” game, good enough for 21st in a contract with Miami, but the overall series 15 -7-1, Contact Sam Werner at 
The Hurricanes enter the the NCAA. those whispers seem to have including its famous win in swerner@nd.edu 



page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Thursday, December 9, 2010 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 
HEAD T
Record: 7-5 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
First season at 
Irish Offense vs. Hurricanes Defense 

Notre Dame 



career record: 
178-62-2 
record at ND: 
7-5 
against Miami: 
0-0 





Douglas 
Farmer 
Sports Editor 

Well, it’s Christmas season, which means every Notre Dame student is walking along snowy South Quad hum­ming, “All I want for Christmas is U.” 
Yes, it’s all about The U. 
Unfortunately, Notre Dame and Miami are not exactly at the same level they were back in the 80s, when The U actually meant something. Nonetheless, the Sun Bowl could not have asked for a more fitting match-up for New Year’s Eve. Brian Kelly and his hopeful rise against coachless and likely punchless Miami? I’ll take Kelly and his three-game winning streak. 
Now, back to Mariah Carey. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27, Miami 17 

Matt Gamber 
Sports Writer 
Like USC, Miami has plenty of talented athletes — then again, so does "Pinky Fingers," the walk-on-laden flag football team my squad of scrubs plays against in tonight's co-rec champinship. (My pick, by the way: Woody's in an upset. Not really. We forfeit.) 
I expect this game to go much like the one against the Trojans, where the Irish offense struggles to sustain drives but the defense hangs in there and gives an incon­sistent Miami offense trouble. If Notre Dame can avoid giving up big plays and can run the ball as they did against USC, I think they'll pull this one off to close 2010 on a high note. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 16, Miami 10 Eric Prister 

Associate Sports Editor 
No Lou Holtz. No Jimmy Johnson. No National Championship hopes on the line. But that doesn’t mean that Notre Dame’s Sun Bowl game against Miami won’t be heated, and won’t be exciting. Even though it’s been nearly two decades since these two teams last clashed, a tradition of dislike bordering on hatred is still present. 
I have a set of rules when picking bowl games. One is ‘never pick a team who fired their coach at the end of the year,’ which Miami did when the showed Randy Shannon the door. Another recently has been ‘never pick Notre Dame to win a bowl game,’ but this is a new era and a new Notre Dame team. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 23, Miami 17 




Thursday, December 9, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Miami 
Hurricanes

O HEAD 
Record: 7-5 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
First season at Miami 

Hurricanes Offense vs. Irish Defense 



career record 0-0: record at Army: 
0-0 
against ND: 
0-0 







Sam Werner 
Sports Writer 

A month ago, not many people thought 
Notre Dame already watched one ball the Irish would be bowling this holiday 
drop this year, through Ronald Johnson’s season. But a red-hot month of 
hands before the Irish defeated USC for November gave Notre Dame a world of 
the first time in nine years. confidence against Miami. The trick for 
When they watch the ball drop on New the Irish will be allowing the winning 
Year’s Eve, it will be after a fourth straight habits they've developed over the past 
win, their first against Miami in 21 years. three games to continue after a month-
Senior kicker David Ruffer, who is per-long layoff. This may not be the classic 
fect on the season and tonight will find Notre Dame-Miami rivalry your father out whether he is the winner of the 2010 told you about, but it should provide a Lou Groza award, has not had a chance nice springboard for the resumption of to shine lately, as Notre Dame has been the series in 2012. For the Irish, a win content to score via touchdown. But here would also have them as one of the against the tough Hurricanes defense, hottest teams in the country heading Ruffer will be a major part of a Notre into 2011. Dame victory. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 30, Miami 21 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 30, Miami 27 


page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Thursday, December 9, 2010 
COMMENTARY 

History may lead to looking forward 
It was all about looking for­ward the last time the Irish played in a bowl game, in Hawaii on Christmas Eve 2008. Notre Dame’s 49-21 dismantling of Hawaii ended a nine-game bowl losing streak and was sup­posed to jump-start a success­ful 2009 season under Charlie Weis. 
So, when the Notre Dame-Miami 

Matt Gamber 
matchup was finalized Sunday, my 
Sports Writer 
first instinct was to look forward, to view the Sun Bowl as a preview of the three-game series between the Irish and Hurricanes that is set to begin in 2012 at Soldier Field in Chicago. I thought we’d see the New Year’s Eve bowl as a chance to enter 2011 with some serious momentum, especially consider­ing Notre Dame’s three straight big wins. 
It seems I underestimated what a game between the Irish and Hurricanes still means, 20 years after they last met. 
After all, I was 18 months old the last time these two teams played. Until a Wikipedia search Sunday, I couldn’t remember the scores of those fierce showdowns in 1988, 1989 and 1990. Until finding Youtube highlights Monday, I had seen more of Lou Holtz in an ESPN studio than on a college football sideline, and I had watched more clips of Rocket Ismail in street clothes at pep rallies than in an Irish uni­form, igniting Notre Dame Stadium the way he did best. 
I can’t fully understand the Notre Dame-Miami rivalry that was characterized by genuinely bad blood that boiled over in a 1988 pregame brawl and epito­mized by Lou Holtz’s legendary request to “save Jimmy Johnson’s ass for me.” These bit­ter showdowns are what a previ­ous generation of Irish fans lived for, and what our current gener­ation longs for. 
By looking back, especially at the way the Irish beat the Hurricanes in 1988 and 1990, I somewhat surprisingly feel encouraged with where the Notre Dame program is headed. Of course, this isn’t the 1988 or 1990 team, for Notre Dame or for Miami — both are 7-5, the former with losses to Navy and Tulsa, the latter without a head coach. 
But, to me, the arrow is point­ing up for the Irish. What better way for Notre Dame to finish the season than with a win over a historic rival the Irish haven’t played in two decades, during which Irish championships have gone from an expectation to a pipe dream. 
This may be a stretch, but for all the differences between those Notre Dame teams and this one, I couldn’t help but see dashes of similarities, glimmers of hope that indicate Brian Kelly just might be putting the fight back in the Fighting Irish. 
While the 1988 national cham­pionship team was perfect in record, it wasn’t perfect for 60 minutes every game. Against the Hurricanes that year, the Irish gave up 21 second quarter points after taking a 7-0 lead. Notre Dame took a 31-21 lead into the fourth quarter of that game but gave up a fourth-and­goal touchdown with 45 seconds to play that pulled Miami within an extra point of tying or a two-point conversion of winning. 
Perhaps it’s just me, but to hear the praise of those Notre Dame teams and the criticism of their contemporaries, I’d have thought the Irish never surren­dered a lead or gave up a fourth-down conversion with a game on the line. 
True, the Irish stepped up when they had to, breaking up that two-point conversion and finishing the victory on their way to a national championship. 
But consider the tone after Notre Dame’s recent victory over USC, when the Irish nearly gave away their chance to beat the Trojans before rallying late and creating a key turnover in the final minute. 
While the level of competition and the level of importance of the games I mention are nowhere near comparable, my point is, maybe we forget what made the Holtz era at Notre Dame special. It wasn’t that the Irish blew out every opponent, big or small, ranked or unranked, without ever having to overcome adversity. Rather, it was that the Irish did overcome that adversity, that they made plays in the biggest situations, that they closed out games the way championship teams do. 
When I looked back at the old tape, I thought I’d come away disappointed about the kind of big games I’d never see as a Notre Dame student. Instead, I saw hope that maybe we’re see­ing the beginning of something special here. 
Unlike a Hawaii Bowl victory, beating Miami — even if it’s not pretty — on New Year’s Eve might just provide the kind of look forward for which Irish fans long. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
Sun Bowl evokes memories of 1980s 

By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
The Sun Bowl will be the first game Notre Dame and Miami have played against each other in more than 20 years. The games it follows, though, are still remembered as some of the best in college football history. 
“This matchup certainly brings back the memories of some of the great games that were played,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said in a press conference Monday. 
One of those great games, the 1988 contest in which No. 4 Notre Dame defeated No. 1 Miami, 31-30, was listed by USA Today in 2007 as one of the best of the past 25 years. 
That game, dubbed “Catholics vs. Convicts,” thanks to a clever student-made T-shirt, began with a fight in entrance of the Notre Dame Stadium tunnel and a rousing speech by then-coach Lou Holtz, who told his team, “save Jimmy Johnson’s ass for me.” It contained a con­troversial fumble ruling, and it ended with Hurricanes coach Johnson attempting a two-point conversion when he could have tied it with an extra point at the end of the game. 
Of course, the season ended with Notre Dame on top, the win over Miami a stepping­stone for the Irish to capture their last national champi­onship. 
It was Holtz’s quote that Kelly said he remembered the most. 
“That’s classic,” he said. “I still think of that one and go, that’s probably one of the best all time lines leading into a football game that I can imagine.” 
Kelly’s other memories were less specific. 
“The great players in it. I remember that,” he said. “The intense rivalry. Intense. It got downright ugly at times.” 
And it did. Though Notre Dame leads the series, which began in 1955, by a mark of 15-7-1, many of Miami’s wins were painful. 
In 1985, Miami defeated Notre Dame 58-7, and was accused of running up the score, possibly beginning the tension that lasted through the next six seasons. 
Through the latter half of the 1980s, Notre Dame and Miami were two of the top teams in college football. The Hurricanes won champi­onships in 1987 and ’89, while the Irish won it all in 1988. The two often played spoiler to one another. 
In 1987, the first time the Irish faced the Hurricanes with Lou Holtz as coach, No. 2 Miami defeated No. 10 Notre Dame 24-0. 
In 1989, the No. 7 Hurricanes ended No. 1 Notre Dame’s 23-game win streak with a 27-10 victory, Notre Dame’s only loss of the sea­son. 
The Irish ended that install­ment of the rivalry with a vic­tory, though, defeating No. 2 Miami 29-20 on Oct. 20, 1990. 
The Hurricanes won a national title the following year, and another in 2001. 
While the history adds a level of interest that may have spurred the Sun Bowl to sell out in a record 21 hours Monday, players said it was of secondary importance to the game at hand. 
“I don’t think it’s going to matter at all,” senior nose guard Ian Williams said at a press conference Sunday. 
Senior running back Robert Hughes, who grew up cheer­ing for the Hurricanes, agreed. 
“It’s more for the fans with the history and tradition,” Hughes said. “It’s pretty much specifically our task to go out there and win. We’ll be focused on that.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 







