the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Employers target Facebook accounts 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Students joke about “Facebook stalking,” which involves searching through social network website Facebook to gain information on another person. But what happens when employers begin using these same tech­niques to find applicants online? 
This presence may be pro­tected by privacy settings used to limit access to individual accounts, but even with just the name of a person and a lit­tle information on where that person is from, virtually any­one can be found online. 
Posts, photos, videos and comments posted on Facebook can cause problems for stu­dents as they begin to search for opportunities beyond the undergraduate level, associate director of the career center Kevin Monahan said. 
Monahan said the context of a post is not taken into account if an employer hap­pens to check a profile. 
“This isn’t limited to Facebook. If you rant and rave, make homophobic, sex­ist, or racist remarks under the guise of sarcasm, we don’t have the luxury of reading body language or the circum­stances surrounding the things we read or see something online,” he said. 

Companies such as Deloitte and Ernst & Young — two major recruiters of Notre Dame graduates — have Facebook pages, suggesting that while they may be there for people to “like” them on Facebook, they also navigate the online forum. 
Photos depicting parties, 


Lyons Hall sponsors Campout on the Quad 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Lyons Hall will host Campout on the Quad from 8 
p.m. tonight until 8 a.m. Saturday, giving students the opportunity to spent a night under the stars for a good cause. 
Proceeds from the event will be donated to World Vision, a Christian humani­tarian organization that will use the money to supply mos­quito netting to nations where malaria is a leading cause of death. 
“I’m looking forward to seeing how people react,” Lyons president Catherine Gillespie said. “This is differ­ent than anything I’ve seen on campus.” 
Gillespie, a sophomore, said the event will feature speakers including Aanuoluwa Adelani, a biolo­gy graduate student, who will tell her story of how malaria personally affected her life. Souvik Bhattacharjee, a research assistant professor in biology, will discuss malaria science and research, while Sam Rund, a graduate student in biology, will talk about World Vision and how the proceeds from the event will be used. 
“The suggested donation of $6 covers the cost of one of the malaria tents given out by World Vision,” Gillespie said. 
Sophomore Laurel Fischer of Lyons suggested the idea for the event to Lyons Hall Council in April. Fischer said she heard about a similar event at another school and wanted to do something simi­lar at Notre Dame. 
see LYONS/page 4 
often including underage drinking, have brought about many issues. 
“I haven’t had trouble with it, but my employer back home said that any pictures posted of us doing illegal activities, while wearing any part of our uniform, would subject us to termination,” freshman Nicole McMillan said. 
Some students respond by putting their profiles on full lockdown, with as much priva­cy as possible. 
A few students even change the name that appears on their profile, which senior Nick Normandin did once he began applying for jobs. 
“I changed my name so it’s not recognizable. I don’t know what exactly they’re looking for, but whatever it is, I don’t 
see FACEBOOK/page 4 


Students to receivelocal discounts 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Local businesses will offer more discounts for students shopping and eating in the South Bend community as early as fall break in an effort to engage students bet­ter with the surrounding area, off-campus concerns chair Emily LeStrange said. 
“We are taking a step towards acknowledging the possibility for embracing the college town environment in South Bend while respecting the community at the same time,” student body president Catherine Soler said. 
The program, officially titled Students for South Bend, will allow Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross students to find discounts at local venues after presenting their student IDs, Soler said. 
“This is our cohesive attempt to reach out to the community in all different ways,” LeStrange said. “Students for South Bend is 
see DISCOUNTS/page 5 




Eddy Street hostsopen house 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
When most Notre Dame students think of Eddy Street Commons, they might envi­sion the long lines that fre­quently form outside Chipotle and Five Guys Burgers and Fries. However, several new retailers and eateries have opened their doors in the development, and Saturday’s Eddy Street Commons Block Party aims to connect students with the new opportunities available to them nearby. 
The event, which is one of four events in the Student Government-sponsored beND kickoff weekend, will take place from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. at Eddy Street Commons. 
The event will feature music, promotions from sev­eral businesses and “a casu­al opportunity for students to explore the new stores and to hang out with 


Observer File Photo 

New vendors in Eddy Street Commons will open their doors from 2 to 4 p.m. Saturday to offer free promotions. 
friends,” student body presi-“Andrew and I thought of dent Catherine Soler said. this event during our cam-
Soler said she and student paign,” Soler said. “It’s a body vice president Andrew great way to introduce Eddy Bell came up with the idea Street Commons as a place for the event several months ago. see EDDY/page 5 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC career office develops new program page 3  Dorm eateries page 8  Men’s soccer page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Friday, September 17, 2010 

THE OBSERVER 
THE HOT SEAT: ONE PERSON, FIVE QUESTIONS, INFINITE POSSIBILITIES 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




What has been your most memorable match in your time at ND and what makes it stand out? 
I’d say my most memorable match was this past year at NCAAs in the quarterfinals against Tennessee. We were up 3-2 and needed one more match to clinch. I had a close match with a friend of mine, Caitlin Whoriskey, and ended up winning in the third set. It was a great feeling to clinch a close match for my team to make the final four. 


Who is your biggest role model in the tennis world and why? 
I don’t really have a role model in tennis, but I’d say growing up I really modeled after Monica Seles’ game because she had a two handed fore­hand just like me, and that’s very rare. Of course, nowadays [Roger] Federer is always someone to look up to and admire. 


What kind of racket do you use? 
I use the Wilson Ntour racket. 

Who has been your most challenging opponent? 
I can’t pick who exactly been my toughest opponent, Everyone is so tal­ented and I’ve had a lot in the past two years. I would say that playing Hilary Barte from Stanford (played her in the semis of NCAAs this year) was a tough match for me. She’s a lefty like me and I don’t usually like playing lefties. And she’s crafty so she’s good at mixing up the points. 




Know someone who should be in the hot seat? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 
Father of 55 suspected of paternity fraud 
PARIS — A Paris man who registered 55 children by 55 different mothers faces up to 10 years in jail and fines for suspected paternity fraud and for helping to obtain residency under false pretences, police said on Friday. 
The 54 year-old of African origin, who authorities did not identify, was arrested in his two-room flat in Paris during a police raid which yielded documents showing more than 50 people were regis­tered as living at that address. 
Police suspect the man was involved in a social benefits scam which could have been costing the state over 1 million euros ($1.27 million) annually in claims by the mothers. 
“At the moment 42 women have been identi­fied and each claim that the man is the biological father of their child,” Paris police said in a statement. 
Authorities said the man claimed he met the women at bars, night spots and occasionally during visits to their home countries, including Senegal, Cameroon and Mali. 
U.S. tourists charged with desecrating the dead 
ATHENS — Greek police charged two U.S. tourists with desecrating the dead on Thursday after they found six human skulls in their hand luggage at Athens international air­port, a police official said. 
“The skulls were found in a scanner check during a stop-over in Athens on their way back to the United States,” said a police official who request­ed anonymity. “The coro­ner confirmed they were human skulls.” 
The two young tourists said they had bought the skulls in a souvenir shop on the island of Mykonos and believed they were fake, the official said, adding they had been released pending trial. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame Law School is holding a Law and Economics Symposium con­ference today from 2 p.m. until 5 p.m. in room 1140 of the Eck Hall of Law. The event is open to the public. 
The Notre Dame Domer Run will take place Saturday . Registration will start at 8 
a.m. at Legends. Pre-registra­tion online costs $15 per per­son. Registration the day of costs $20 dollars per person. The race starts at 9 a.m. 
The Snite Museum of Art will exhibit “Parallel Currents: Highlights of the Ricardo Pau-Llose Collection of Latin American Art” Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 
p.m. The exhibit will be locat­ed in the O’Shaughnessy West Gallery and is open to the public. 
Selections from the William McGraw Photography Collection will be shown from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in O’Shaughnessy Galleries I and II of the Snite Museum of Art. The exhibit is open to the public. 
The Notre Dame department of music will host the Fleur de Lys baroque chamber ensemble — a performance of the music of the Bach family and Telemann at 1:30 p.m. on Sunday. An additional concert will take place at 5:30. The event will be held in the Reyes Organ Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center . Faculty, students, staff, and the public are welcome to attend. Call 574-631-2800 for ticket information. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Molly Madden Chris Masoud Megan Doyle Megan Finneran Caitlin Housley Scene Graphics Courtney Cox Gaspar Garcia de Viewpoint Paredes Michelle Maitz 

Photo 
Suzanna Pratt 


HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Saturday Sunday monday tuesday 



CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


72 66 HIGH 7865 7079
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


68 55 LOW 5552 6060 







Friday, September 17, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 





Program offers grad prep 
By BRIANNE CARROLL 
News Writer 
The Career Crossings office has developed a new program it will host once a month for Saint Mary’s juniors and sen­iors to help them prepare for life after graduation. 
Stacie Jeffirs, director of the Career Crossings office, said she is excited for the two new programs, “Navigating the Journey” for juniors and “Planning for the Future” for seniors. 
“We’ve been seeing quite a bit of traffic in our office. What we’re hoping to do with these monthly programs is direct students with either very spe­cific questions, or by focusing on specific topics,” Jeffirs said. 
Once a month, Jeffirs and assistant director Maureen Baska will facilitate topic-ori­ented discussions geared toward success upon gradua­tion. There will be separate peer groups divided by year. 
Baska will lead juniors on Tuesdays while Jeffirs will take on senior discussions on Wednesdays. 
“As the months go on we’ll be talking about different top­ics as well. Discussions are very topic focused, whereas the junior group and senior groups are broader,” Jeffirs said. 
A few weeks into the pro­gram, Jeffirs said the feedback has been mostly positive. 
“We’ve had some interests from students already and I’ve had students planning on being there [at the discussion sessions],” she said. 


Jeffirs said she hopes the students will serve as the pri­mary facilitators of discussion, but that she will be available to answer any questions stu­dents may raise during the session. 
Jeffirs’ aim is to keep the discussion groups relatively small because she said a smaller group enhances the depth of conversation and cre­ates a sense of intimacy among peers. 
“The aim is to keep it small but open to everyone,” she said. 
The goal of the two pro­grams is to provide social sup­port for students who may feel alone and overwhelmed during such a critical point in their lives. 
“This is a designated organi­zation to let them know what kinds of resources are avail­able,” Jeffirs said. “How do you get yourself unstuck from the situation so that you can keep moving forward?” 
A benefit of the programs is that students are not obligated to commit. Jeffirs said the meetings are expected to be casual, which is a positive for students who have busy sched­ules. 
“If students have questions they can come to these groups and get some support from their peers for whatever issue is affecting them,” she said. “The program is a nice and easy way to get to know other girls who may be overwhelmed with some of the same issues.” 
Contact Brianne Carroll at bcarro01@saintmarys.edu 



Students observe game days abroad 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 

Students generally spend the morning of a Notre Dame football game plan­ning a tailgate, checking to make sure they have their tickets and listening to the marching band play the Victory March on the way to Notre Dame Stadium. For most students, a typical game day rarely consists of arguing with a bartender in French about finding a local Internet connection so the game can be broadcast on a laptop. 
So go the trials and tribu­lations of organizing a game watch while abroad. 
Hundreds of Notre Dame sophomores and juniors are scattered across the globe in various study abroad programs, but the majority of students are still finding ways to stay connected to the school through football. 
This is sometimes easier said than done. 
Junior Shannon McNaught, who is studying abroad in Angers, France, said she and the other stu­dents in her program faced multiple difficulties in try­ing to find a location to cheer the Irish on against Michigan. 
“We went to a pub where we planned to watch the game 
on the 

“Just watching the
French Spanish internation-game, even from a bar in might have 
al sports Madrid, made all of us found the 
channel but Irish fans a
feel the whole
they were mild annoy-showing football Saturday ance, 
Formula 1 feeling again and made McNaught highlights,” said the 
us miss campus.” 
she said. French were “After some a bit more fi nagli ng Liz Ledden open with with the junior their hostili­

b a r t e n d e r, we down ­loaded a VPN system onto his com­puter and hooked it up to the big screen to watch.” 
Unfortunately for McNaught and her class ­mates, there were more dif­ficulties to face during the game than quarterback Dayne Crist’s blurry vision. 
“The resolution on the screen was extremely poor and at the end of the third quarter, the bartender got confused and quit the Internet,” she said. “After that, we just went to Plan B and watched the rest of the game on ESPN.com on our friend’s Blackberry.” 
Junior Liz Ledden, who is studying abroad in Toledo, Spain, said she and her fel­low Domers found a venue they thought would be more conducive to watching a Notre Dame football game. 
“The entire Toledo pro­gram went to an Irish pub we found in Madrid,” she said. “It felt a little weird though, because we were in Spain but we had a little bit of Notre Dame there with us.” 
Other students haven ’t had as much luck finding a means of watching the game due to the political climate of the country they are studying in. 
“Watching football games in China is really difficult,” said junior Jia Hua Juszczak, who is studying in Bejing. “The TV and inter-net censorship definitely limits the media outlets we can use.” 
Juszczak wasn’t able to watch either of the first two football games due to cen­sorship issues as well as 
other factors that come with living in a country thousands of miles from home. 
“There are some alumni here in Bejing who have a sling box so they can watch the games directly from the U.S., but there is still the time difference,” he said. “Bejing is 12 hours ahead of Eastern time so most foot­ball games are played at 3 
a.m. on Sundays. So either way, it’s not ideal.” 
For those students who have been able to watch the games, they said they have had interesting experiences with locals who haven ’t been able to totally under­stand the culture of Notre Dame football. 
“The Spaniards who were in the bar with us thought we were pretty entertain­ing, to say the least, ” Ledden said. “They were trying to watch their fútbol game on the TV next to us, but we were so much louder 
so I think 
they got a bit 
annoyed.” 
While the 
ty. 
“After our 
two game watches, I think the French culture isn’t particularly fond of American football, 
or at least its fans,” she said. “We always get really odd looks when we show up to the pubs with our jerseys and other game day gear on.” 
While students are thrilled to be in a different country and immersed in a different culture, they said they never miss Notre Dame more than on Saturdays. 
“Just watching the game, even from a bar in Madrid, made all of us feel the whole football Saturday feeling again and made us miss campus,” Ledden said. 
McNaught said the game watches in France have made her miss the excite­ment of being in the stadi­um, but there are other aspects of watching the game in another country that spoil the atmosphere. 
“You can’t help but feel like something is wrong when the British announcer on Eurosport2 keeps refer­ring to the Notre Dame quarterback as ‘Jake Montana’ throughout the entire broadcast,” she said. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 17, 2010 
Facebook 
continued from page 1 
want them to find it on my Facebook,” he said. 
Even while posts can be monitored to some extent, once something is placed online it is difficult to mini­mize its impact and impossi­ble to remove, Monahan said. 
“Once it is out there, it’s like trying to put toothpaste back into a tube; it stays out,” Monahan said. 
However, Monahan said companies are not maliciously tracking down every candi­date online. In fact, most aren’t. 
“Most employers have a pol­icy telling their managers and human resources: do not look at these sites. There have been lawsuits about these from individuals who feel they have lost opportunities because of Facebook, Myspace or other social media sites. Those are still pending,” Monahan said. 
Sophomore Jacqueline Patz, whose sister worked in human resources, under­stands the basics of why this rule has been set at many companies. 
“Her company is specifically not allowed to go and look at people’s Facebooks. When you’re hiring, you’re not sup­posed to take into considera­tion things like race or gen­der, and if you look at Facebook, you can’t avoid see­ing that in their pictures or on their wall,” Patz said. 
When this occurs, the main question returns: are employ­ers justified in looking at Facebook profiles or are they overstepping certain bound­aries? 

Two main theories have emerged on the topic. 
The first opinion is based on the Internet as a public forum. 
“I don’t think that employ­ers overstep any boundaries in checking Facebook. It’s a public website and anything you post on there is something you should expect everyone to see,” McMillan said. 
Others, like Patz, find there is a clear division between a person’s profes­sional and per­sonal life. 
try advice or 
“I think that 
“Once it is out there, 

there’s a big dif­
ference between it’s like trying to put 
the two, and toothpaste back into whenever that 
a tube; it stays out.” 

line starts to get blurred, that’s 
crossing the Kevin Monahan rights of your associate director employees,” she 
Career Center 

said. 
Monahan said both sides have convincing arguments, but ultimately the Internet is a public forum that anyone can access. 
“There are valid arguments on both sides, but when you post things out there, even under the guise of a personal site, it’s been made public. If you don’t want these com­ments or pictures being read, you should not be putting that information out there. I guess the courts will decide what that privacy levels — or priva­cy expectations — should be, not just for companies, but for all individuals,” he said. 
With all of this discussion on how dangerous the Internet may be, some students rush to edit their profiles their pro­files when applying for jobs. 
But students can take a step back and breathe again. There are ways job applicants can use the Internet to their advantage, and even combat negative social networking from their past, Monahan said. 
“Developing a strong, posi­tive online presence is key. Writing a blog offering indus­
recommenda­tions can help. Another way is to create a website that details some work or class experiences you’ve had,” Monahan said. “By making these active, when an individual searches your name, your more positive 
aspects will show up first, and that’s what you want them to see.” 
As students forge their own career paths, students like Normandin have come to real­ize that growing up amidst a social networking boom is beginning to show its effects. 
“I think part of our genera­tion, now that we’re mature, has grown up and is now real­izing the consequences,” he said. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 


Lyons 
continued from page 1 
“We got a lot of positive feedback, so we decided to try to make it a reality, ” Gillespie said. 
World Vision is composed of different sectors, and the money raised from the event will go directly to the End Malaria campaign, which dis­tributes mos-
Gillespie said the charity was selected because of its Christian humanitarian mes­sage. 
“The event is something anyone can come to — so come by and donate, ” Fischer said. “You don’t have to stay overnight if you don’t want to.” 
There will be events for participants, including a showing of the film “Heavyweights” at midnight, 
quito netting 

“It’s going to a good 
and funds research for cause, but you don’t testing. have to feel like 
“Malaria is 

you’re getting
one of the 

leading causes weighed down by the 
of death for seriousness of the children under 
issue. Come out and
five in the 

have fun”
developi ng world, respon­sible for nearly 

Catherine Gillespie
2,000 child 

Lyons Hall president 
deaths a day, 
or one every as well as the sale of glow-in­the -dark T-shirts. 
“It’s going to a good cause, but you don’t have to feel like you ’re getting weighed down by the serious­ness of the issue,” Gillespie said. “Come out and have fun.” 
Fischer said that overall, 

40 seconds,” the organiza-coordinators of the event tion ’s website said. want students to come and 
“Transmitted by a mosquito, this disease kills an esti ­mated 860,000 people each year. An esti­mated 85 are children.” 
Gillespie said World Vision pays for the netting up 

“Feel free to come and go as you please. ... We want everyone on campus to stop by.” 
Laurel Fischer sophomore 
support the cause in any capacity they can. 
“Feel free to come and go as you please, ” Fischer said. “It’s very flexi­ble. We just would be happy for people to stop by. We 

front, instead of waiting for want everyone on campus to donations to come through stop by.” before acting. The donations help pay for charity already Contact Kristen Durbin at underway. kdurbin@nd.edu 

page 5 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 17, 2010 

Eddy 
continued from page 1 
where students should feel welcome and be able to con­nect with the community.” 
The participating stores and restaurants will be open dur­ing the event and will offer students a variety of promo­tions. Students may obtain punch cards that will enable them to receive a free tote bag or T-shirt if they get the card punched at each partici­pating retailer. The cards will be available Friday at the block party. 
However, students do not have to participate in each store’s promotion in order to receive a free gift, Soler said. 
Promotions include free cof-Eddy Street tenants are fee mugs from the Hammes notably missing from the list Notre Dame of participating Bookstore, $5 stores. 
off any item at “Five Guys 
“Five Guys and 
Camellia and Chipotle, Cosmetics, Chipotle ... are not the most well-fresh popcorn even participating known vendors, from Old are not even 
in the Block Party, so
National Bank, participating in 50 percent off participation is the Block Party, all milkshakes coming from places so participation and malts at is coming from 
that
The Mark Dine places that stu­
students have yet to
and Tap, dents have yet waived enroll-explore.” to explore,” ment for stu -Soler said. “It’s dents at a great time for 
Catherine Soler
Anytime Fitness students to dis-
student body president
and a free blue cover the other and gold T-shirt opportunities with purchase offered there.” of $25 or more at Outpost In keeping with beND’s goal Sports. However, two popular of fostering better community 

relations and furthering Pankiw, co-director of special engagement events for 
between Notre Student
“We think its a good 
Dame and the Government, surrounding indication of future said. “We think area, student it’s a good indi­
relationship between
government ’s cation of future 
Notre Dame and the
special events relationships committee col-nearby community.” between Notre laborated with Dame and the Eddy Street nearby commu-
Erin Pankiw 
Commons and nity.” 
junior
Kite Realty, the Soler said stu­developers of dents could the Commons, to make the submit suggestions and com-event a reality. ments about the block party 
“We’ve been working a lot at designated tables during with these two groups, so the event. we’ re excited about their enthusiasm and support for Contact Kristin Durbin at the event,” junior Erin kdurbin@nd.edu 


Discounts 
continued from page 1 
definitely a key component of the beND program.” 
The beND campaign is stu­dent government’s initiative to foster better community relations between South Bend and the Notre Dame student body. 
Student government began a list of more than 60 busi­nesses it approached to offer discounts, and that list will continue to grow as student 
representatives work with Downtown South Bend and the Chamber of Commerce of St. Joseph’s County, Soler said. 
“We are look­ing especially for local places so students really have the chance to go into the real South Bend community, ” LeStrange said. 
LeStrange said the ven ­dors will display 

“This program really benefts smaller local places. It gets their names out and attracts student business that might not otherwise be there.” 
Emily LeStrange Off-campus concerns chair 
Students overwhelmingly preferred dis ­counts at local businesses than having Flex Point access in these restau ­rants and shops, she said. 
Past pro ­grams sold dis­count ticket booklets with coupons that students could present at local venues but the Students for South Bend program would 


a window 
decal in their storefront to let students know that they offer discounts. 
“This program really bene­fits smaller local places,” LeStrange said. “It gets their names out and attracts stu­dent business that might not otherwise be there.” 
Some proposed venues include Studebagels, Ritter’s Ice Cream, Five Guys, Granite City, Papa John’s and Uptown Kitchen. 
Student government from Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross dents can know what is avail­able to them, LeStrange said. 
“A lot of places like Between the Buns already issue discounts but students do not really know about them,” LeStrange said. 
Discounts would not apply to alcoholic beverages because of standard University policy, LeStrange said. 
The idea behind Students for South Bend began when student government tried to investigate applying Domer Dollars and Flex Points to off-campus venues, Soler said. 
avoid this option, LeStrange said. 
“Students do not want to pay for a discount,” LeStrange said. “And to a certain extent I feel like you should not have to in a col­lege town.” 
LeStrange said vendors would have the option of choosing when and how to offer the student discounts so they can participate in the program on their own terms. 
“We want the vendor to feel comfortable too in this pro­
gram,” 
LeStrange said. 
“We do not 

will also pres- “During my freshman  w a n t  t h e m  
ent the discount p l a n t o b u s i -nesses such as  year I did not think of [South Bend] as a  stuck in some­thing that they do not want.”  
T  a  r  g  e  t  ,  college town, but it  S o p h o m o r e  
I s a b e l l a  ’ s  does seem to be  C a t h e r i n e  
B o u t i q u e , Meijer and Ten T h o u s a n d  becoming more of that now.”  H e r m a n n s a i d accessing these local b u s iness  
V i l l  a  g  e  s  ,  and restaurants  
LeStrange said. “ We c a n l e t [ S o u t h B e n d ]  Jack Dobmeier junior  would present a challenge for some students.  
k n o w  t h a t  t h e  “  F i n d i n g  
s t u d e n t  b o d y  transportation  

does not just want to stay on is time-consuming for me,” campus,” LeStrange said. “We Hermann said. “But for stu­want to be in the community dents who have a car here too.” [off-campus discounts] would 
Advertising these discounts be really nice.” through offcampus.nd.edu, Underclassmen that do not the student government web-have cars on campus would site, and hall staff in resi-be less motivated to go into dence halls would be a criti-South Bend to use the dis-cal part of the project so stu-counts, she said. 
“If discounts were applied to deliveries then I would def­initely be more inclined to take advantage of them,” Hermann said. 
Junior Jack Dobmeier said he thought discounts in local restaurants would be benefi­cial to him because he lives off-campus and eats out for many of his meals. 
“I never used fourteen meals in a week when I had a regular meal plan,” Dobmeier said. “I would order pizza or Jimmy John’s when I got sick of dining hall food.” 
Incorporating the University in local business by offering student discounts would defi­nitely continue to develop an atmosphere of a college town, he said. 
“During my freshman year I did not think of [South Bend] as a college town, but it does seem to be becoming more of that now,” Dobmeier said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
The Observer 
V ew po  n t

page 6 Friday, September 17, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Welcome home again 
They cling to resumes padded with exceptional SAT scores and extracur­ricular activities. Their GPAs place them in the top of their classes in schools scattered around the country. They are club presidents, team Megan Doyle captains, AP stu­dents and active 
N ew s W riter 
volunteers. Their eyes betray an eagerness they attempt to mask with crossed arms and nonchalant stance. 
I stand before them with a stack of yellow business cards in my pocket and a crisp badge that identifies me as “Megan Doyle, Admissions Tour Guide.” 
These are the prospective students for the future classes of the University of Notre Dame, and I am entrusted with the task of introducing them to my school. Through sleep-deprived eyes, I see a school that brings me stress, exhaustion and an overcrowd­ed to-do list. I see the homework wait­ing for me when I finally leave my tour group and return to Lyons. I see arti­cle deadlines and reading assign­ments. 
Throughout the tour, I spout off impressive historical facts about the Congregation of the Holy Cross, the Fighting Irish football team, Father Sorin and the Four Horsemen. We troupe past LaFun, DPAC, DeBart, MCOB, Stonehenge, CoMo and Touchdown Jesus. 
As we walk, I also give them snap­shots of student life. I regale them with tales of the Lyons Hall interhall football team (victor in a total of zero games last year), frozen yogurt in South dining hall and push-ups in the student section at football games. I tell ghost stories. I invite them to see themselves in my position as a student at this University. 
I welcome them home. 

I was born and raised on dreams of this school, and some of the stories I tell were mine before I was a kinder­gartener, much less a Notre Dame sophomore. But many of these high school students are walking the quads for the first time as they follow me through campus. What do they hear when I speak? What do they see when they stare at the buildings I enter every day? 
What does our world look like through their hopeful eyes? 

I see backpacks loaded with books, a hopelessly messy Lyons quad, candles lighting the Grotto, a sea of Kelly green in the northwest corner of the end zone and a woman cloaked in gold. I see opportunities to challenge myself, to laugh until I cry, to trust, to yell with untamed energy and to love a family that grows daily. 
A high school student asked me once if I regretted my college decision at any point. I told her that sometimes I am tired, stressed, confused and over­whelmed — but I would choose Notre Dame over and over again should I be tired, stressed, confused and over­
whelmed anywhere in the world. Suddenly, my overcrowded to-do list felt lighter. 
So take a deep breath and look around. Remember what it was to fall in love with this place, this campus, this school. 
Welcome home … again. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Being part of the community 
With its new beND program, student government is try­ing to tackle the complicated issue of the University’s relationship with the community — a focus of every stu­dent government administration each year. 
Student body president Catherine Soler and vice presi­dent Andrew Bell have created their version of a commu­nity relations agenda with the new program, which Soler said is a “cohesive effort” to promote off-campus activi­ties and encourage students to be respective members of the community. 
BeND is a good start, and has several events lined up for its kickoff this weekend. Student govern­ment is hosting a picnic for both students and community members this evening on at the Robinson Community Learning Center, as well as co-hosting a block party in Eddy Street Commons Saturday. On Sunday night, an attorney will speak to educate students about interacting with police, followed by a Monday night panel with representatives from the Indiana State Excise Police, Notre Dame Security Police, the Office of Residence Life and Housing and a defense attorney. 
Despite these events, though, beND lacks a clear plan of how to achieve its goals in the long term. Soler has outlined several lofty aims, but student government still has to work to flesh out the program. 
“The program asks students to be mindful and respect­ful ... and be willing to be engaged in South Bend,” Soler told The Observer. 
But Soler and Bell are vague on how the events they have lined up will achieve this goal. 
The objective of the block party at Eddy Street Commons is to get students out into the community, but that begs the question: Is Eddy Street Commons part of the South Bend community? 
Economically and demographically, the Commons is not representative of the community, but rather more of an offshoot of campus. There are better ways for students to engage with the South Bend community. 
This starts primarily with students living off campus. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Student houses are surrounded by family homes. Introduce yourselves to your neighbors. 
While the goals of this initiative are most relevant for off-campus students, those who live on campus must also recognize the roles they can play in the South Bend com­munity. 
South Bend has some great local shops and restau­rants. Try the Chicory Café in downtown South Bend for lunch instead of Chipotle. Support local products by visit­ing the South Bend Farmer’s Market instead of grabbing a burger at Five Guys. 
While the block party at the Commons is a 
fun way to get students off campus, beND 
should focus on educational initiatives, like 
Sunday’s lecture about interacting with the 
police. 

The goals of the program, however, should 
extend beyond dealing with parties and police 
officers. As for events to get students into the community, student government should look outside Eddy Street Commons. For example, instead of sponsoring another Cubs game trip, it should send students to a Silverhawks game. 
Finally, student government should separate beND from volunteering initiatives. A community relations platform inherently has a different set of goals than student volun­teer work. Notre Dame students are often involved in service, which aims to give something to a community. The equally important goal of community relations, how­ever, emphasizes the value of actually being a part of that community rather than simply serving it. Volunteering at the South Bend Center for the Homeless is an admirable activity, but so is getting to know your neighbors. 
Overall, beND is a good launching point for Soler and Bell’s community relations initiative. The objectives are worthwhile and necessary, but the leaders need to put more work into narrowing beND’s focus and coming up with a concrete action plan. 
In the meantime, individual students should take up the responsibility to be good neighbors on their own. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Competence, like truth, beauty andcontact lenses, is in the eye of thebeholder.” 
Laurence J. Peter 
U.S. educator and author 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“You sort of start thinking anything's possible if you've got enough nerve.” 
J.K. Rowling British author 
[In Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix] 
The Observer 
V ew po  n t

Friday, September 17, 2010 page 7 
Send college students to war in Afghanistan 
President Barack Obama has said of Afghanistan, “This is not a war of choice. This is a war of necessity.” If that is true, every citizen between the ages of 18 to 25 should be prepared to make the ultimate sacrifice. A volun-Chris teer army should Rhodenbaugh not allow the rest of American young adults to discon-In Pursuit of nect from debates Social Justice on just and neces­sary wars. Let’s analyze the nine years of evidence to find justification for President Obama’s claim. 
The war in Afghanistan has no achievable goal, yet we are committing desperately needed dollars to the war in the face of a devastating recession at home. Even if every military offen­sive is successful and the Afghan peo­ple begin to cooperate effectively with the U.S. military, the U.S. is still left propping up a corrupt government under President Hamid Karzai. Not to mention the country’s infrastructure is non-existent or in shambles, and the population has little to no respect of the country’s political institutions. 
The plan of using force to win the hearts of a people puts our soldiers in a precarious situation. Once one civil­ian is killed violently by a drone mis­sile, a grenade, or a stray bullet, the entire community will be pushed away from supporting the war effort and at least one, likely two or more, person will enlist to fight for the Taliban. 
What would you do if a member of your family or your best friend had been killed by a heavily armed military force from another country that does not practice your faith or speak your language? Would you risk your life to cooperate with a foreign military force responsible for civilian deaths in your community? The reality is every Afghan knows a U.S. soldier will leave if that is the order. They understand the individual Afghan does not matter to Washington or the war effort. Therefore, why do we continue to put our soldiers into villages and tell them to be armed diplomats and community organizers? 
Bank bailouts are being talked about in political ads across the country with politicians trying to be more populist than the other. Is anyone mentioning that we are currently “bailing out” the central bank of Kabul? Bank failure would mean no government employee (Afghan military force) could be paid and one of the only sources of credit in the country would disappear. Because we are building a country, and not fighting a war with our military, this issue is potentially catastrophic. While the Treasury department said no U.S. taxpayer money would be given direct­ly to the bank to protect its solvency, the U.S. will be bankrolling the govern­ment of Afghanistan for the next 10 to 50 years. Therefore, we may not be giving cash to Kabul Bank, but by sub­sidizing other government action we indirectly are contributing. 
The U.S. will spend $105 billion (roughly one-sixth of its defense budg­et) on the war in Afghanistan in 2010, which is more than the $98 billion the Chinese government, second largest spender on defense in the world, spent on defense in 2009. Total spending from 2001 to 2009 in Afghanistan is $190 billion, yet experts are saying the Taliban has recovered from its initial defeats to return to nearly the same power and influence it had in 2001 when the U.S. invaded. 
Why are we unable to learn from our country’s past engagements abroad and the military history of Afghanistan? You cannot kill an idea, or a culture that accepts the Taliban with force. It must be destroyed by education and economic development. Modernity and legitimate democratic governance cannot be brought in by 
U.S. tanks and squads of marines. Maybe that is why many NGOs and experts like Greg Mortenson, director of the Central Asia Institute that has built 145 schools in Afghanistan and Pakistan, believe money should be invested in the human capital of the Afghan people instead of militaries. Between the 145 schools built by the Central Asia Institute and the 300 schools built in Afghanistan by the CARE foundation not a single one has been destroyed by the Taliban. Greg Mortenson has said, “for the cost of just 246 soldiers posted for one year, America could pay for a higher educa­tion plan for all Afghanistan.” 
Remember when 60 percent of peo­ple disapproved of health care legisla­tion and politicians and the media said an anti-government revolution was brewing in this country? Then politi­cians began the race to see who could distance themselves more from the bill before the midterms. Well, recent polls show that 60 percent of Americans oppose the war in Afghanistan, yet our country trudges on with nation build­ing and our country’s leaders are hold­ing their ground that we are fighting “a war of necessity.” 

People are not invested in the events of the war because it has no effect on their day-to-day lives. Even in a reces­sion the economic costs of the war still are not enough for the issue to be a part of political platforms in the midterm elections. How would this sit­uation be changed if every mother in the United States knew it was possible that her child was sent into a battle with no metrics for victory? Would col­lege campuses take some time away from drinking to start organizing against a war that is taking the lives of Afghan civilians and their friends or family members? How would politi­cians vote if their children were going to war? To justify taking the lives of more than 1000 U.S. soldiers, and spending 1/6 of our defense budget, every young person in the U.S. should be willing to fight to protect this coun­try. Do we have to reinstate the draft, college students included, to hold our president accountable when he calls nation building in Afghanistan a “war of necessity?” 
Chris Rhodenbaugh is a senior political science major and editor of www.LeftysLastCry.com, Notre Dame’s Progressive Headquarters. He can be contacted at crhodenb@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
 ETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Best fan section 
Chris, 

It is embarrassing to read your comments (“Section 32” by Chris Masoud, Sept. 16) and to realize that they were expressed by a student at the University of Notre Dame. I did not have an opportunity to attend Notre Dame, but I love this University. I am an usher in Section 33 and drive 450 miles one way each week from my home in Iowa to help serve the University of Our Lady in my small way. 
Whenever a fan from the visiting school enters my section, I welcome them to our fine University. I talk to all of the students in the area where the fan is standing and remind them that they are students at the University of Notre Dame, that they are the beat of the best and that we treat our guests with class and dignity. I also remind the visiting fan that if things happen to, unfortunately, go his/her way that they remember that they are our guest and that they also act with class and bring favor upon their university. 
Unsportsmanlike behavior in the stands does not help our team win football games. It does, however, reflect poorly on the University that we love so much. 
In my eight years as an usher we have never had a problem with a visiting fan in our section. I would enjoy meeting you Chris. I am the usher that checks tick­ets as the students enter the best section in Notre Dame Stadium ... section 33. Stop by and introduce yourself next game and join me in a cheer for the Fighting Irish. 
Curt Froyen 
Usher #5 Notre Dame Stadium Sept. 16 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Passing judgment 
This is a response to Christopher Masoud’s article “Section 32” (Sept. 16). Now, I sit in sec­tion 32. In fact, I sat directly behind those slimy Michigan girls. I felt a feeling of the utmost shame as I read your article, Chris. I didn’t even do anything to make these girls fear for their physical safety (something which I recently found out was classified as assault, but forget the law). In fact, I acted appalled at my fellow student’s behavior and shunned him. I even apolo­gized for him! I don’t know what came over me while I was standing there; I guess I just got caught up in the moment. But you, Chris, know better and can therefore pass down your judg­ment from the press box while sipping on club soda. 
In my defense though Chris, I only recently joined the Men against Violence, so I didn’t know what you three-year members would know. The MAV code clearly states that you should never bring any sort of violence against women, except Michigan fans at football games. Then you can do whatever you want. 
Another point you brought up, Chris, really got my blood boiling: There were only nine arrests this weekend! Come on students, you’re all acting like there have been over 100 arrests in the past month! It makes me so mad I just want to go back and knock those two Michigan girls back down on their bums. Oh wait! I can! They were actually Notre Dame grad students! They go to school here! 
Chris, if you haven’t realized by now, I strongly disagree with you. But since I, along with all the people who live in your section, are now dead to you, I have no problem telling you to stay in the press box. 
One more thing Chris, the person who pushed those girls was not forced to leave. After he apologized, he felt ashamed of what he did and voluntarily left. He felt ashamed because he is actually a really nice guy who has never done anything like that before. I guess you can miss some things from way up in the press box. But please, keep sending your judgment down our way while sipping on that club soda. We deserve it. 
Nate Greenberg 
sophomore Keough Hall Sept. 16 



The Observer 
Scen e

page 8 Friday, September 17, 2010 

GASPAR GARCIA DE PAREDES | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scen e

Friday, September 17, 2010 page 9 
Away Game Etiquette 


You have felt the joy 
By MARISSA FROBES of beating Purdue. You 
Scene Writer have dealt wit h the 
pain of losing to 
Michigan. Rather than experiencing numbness watching the Michigan State game this Saturday on a television, many Domers will venture to East Lansing to await Notre Dame football’s fate first-hand. 
As a native Michiganer, I have been to one away game each year in my home state for the last two years. If you are traveling to MSU this weekend, get ready to see college football game days in a completely different light. 
Contact Marissa Frobes 
at mfrobes@nd.edu 


What To Expect  Do  Do Not  
1) Get lost. Stick with a friend — the MSU campus is huge and you could get caught up in a myriad of places. Spartan Stadium could end up being miles away from where you are. 2 ) A n t a g o n i z e a S p a r t a n f o r t o o l o n g . Remember that no matter where you are, you are surely out-numbered. When alcohol is involved, inhibitions usually aren’t — don’t get trapped in a sticky situation. 3) C o w e r i n f ear. I n t h e w i s e w o r d s o f Freekbass, “We are ND.”  
Notre Dame maintains a multitude of die-hard fans. However, the Spartan advantages of man­power (more than 45,000 students in attendance, yikes!) and a lack of Catholic social teaching con­stantly nagging their consciences allows them to more freely exp r ess t h ei r … p r id e. By “ freely express” I mean be prepared for heckling galore, the frequent outburst of obscenities and a proclivi­ty towards group-bullying. If you walk into a Sparty-dominated tailgate, expect an unfriendly chant for at least five minutes before you get a hot dog. Don’t let it ruin your pre-game, though. State fans will appreciate your loyalty if you play into the jeering and throw something right back at them.  1) Wear blue and gold. MSU’s school colors are green and white, and you don’t want to be acci­dentally mistaken for a Spartan if you sport green garb. 2) Keep in mind this is a night game — you need to survive until 8 p.m. Do not get overexcit­ed and “tailgate like a champion” to the point where you’ll be searching for a futon after din­ner. 3) Have fun! Rep for ND, make your presence known in East Lansing and make new friends. You’ll be surprised how excited any Domer will be when they see a classmate away from school, even if you do not know them at all.  


By COURTNEY COX 
Scene Writer 
“Shop For Something Good.” This was the catch phrase of the extravaganza known as Fashion’s Night Out. On Sept. 10, designers, models, socialites and students flooded the streets of Manhattan in search of the most glamorous parties in town. 
The fashion industry is one filled with plenty of velvet ropes and guest lists, but for one night only, the world of fashion opens its doors to the greater public in celebration of the opening of New York Fashion Week. From the catch phrase one may have assumed that the event would be supporting some worthy charity or helping people in need, but no, it’s all about fashion. 
Fashion’s Night Out is essentially a string of parties that all occur on the same night, bringing together celebrity fashion fans, designers and models-of-the-moment, essen­tially just to prove how amazing they are. The proceeds from the official Fashion’s Night Out shirt actually does benefit the New York City AIDS Fund, so it’s one purchase of the night that no one should feel guilty about (too bad the same can’t be said about a pair of pricey designer heels). It can be argued, though, that the event serves as a means of publicizing up­and-coming designers and giving them a larg­er fan base that will help support their artistic endeavors by purchasing their clothing. In that sense it is certainly honorable. 
Opening Ceremony, the innovative depart­ment store that showcases talented new designers as well as the high priced mainstays of the industry, organized a French-style flea market in the Ace Hotel. The market brought together the work of designers like Alexander Wang, Rodarte and Proenza Schouler. Definitely not an average flea market by any standard. 

Pop Magazine hosted what was essentially a rave at New York concert venue Don Hill’s. The guests were surprised with a perform­ance from Iggy Pop. Despite the gritty exterior the party guests were among the most glam­orous in the industry including Gwen Stefani, Gavin Rosdale, and Margherita Missoni. 
Sak’s Fifth Avenue hosted one of the largest soirees of the evening and it was packed wall to wall with celebrities and fashion fans from the local area. Attendees were able to meet designers like Victor & Rolf, Prabal Gurung, and Zac Posen while brushing shoulders with the likes of Claire Danes and Coco Rocha. It had to have been a fashion fantasy come true. 
Bergdorf Goodman was a magnet for large numbers of celebrities during its celebration of Fashion’s Night Out. The Olsen twins served as bartenders and Padma Lakshmi hosted a designer version of Top Chef with Cynthia Rowley and Gilles Mendel among the contest­ants. Throughout the night various games were played which simply served as a distrac­tion from guests like Victoria Beckham, Badgley Mischka, Manolo Blahnik and Nicole Richie. 
The second annual Fashion’s Night Out was by any means a success and brought out all the hip young stars for a good cause as well as good times. Champagne flowed freely, design­ers played poker with their greatest admirers, and all were welcome to partake in the cele­bration when the fashion industry opened its doors to the rest of the world, and when the doors were closed once more it left attendees of Fashion’s Night Out begging for more. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
GASPAR GARCIA DE PAREDES | Observer Graphic 
page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Friday, September 17, 2010 
while the Lions (0-1) lost by the ing and improving all week. gry for its first win. Though ther after falling one game same score to Farley. Both “We definitely have a lot of they lost their first game to short of the championship last 
Weasels 

Breen-Phillips and Lyons dis-things to work on in practice Howard 18-6, the Chicks (0-1) season, Walsh will open up its continued from page 16 played strong defensive outings this week,” Gerspach said. are looking to rebound this 2010 campaign against Ryan 
in holding their opponents to “We’re planning on working weekend with a stronger game. after enjoying a bye week on defenses looking to make their one score. Each struggled hard to fix all of the mistakes The Pyros (0-0) are taking each the first Sunday of the season. impact felt throughout the sea-offensively, however, and will that really hurt us last Sunday.” game one by one, keeping their “We think we’re especially son. The Purple Weasels (1-0), look to put points on the board This is a rebuilding year for eyes on playing in the champi-prepared for this week,” sopho­who lost in last year’s champi-this Sunday. the Bullfrogs, as their roster onship game in the Stadium, more defensive lineman Jen onship game, are on a path of “After Sunday, we know we includes a lot of young players. according to Pasquerilla East Rawding said. “We got some redemption as they set out to need to focus on solidifying the Despite her team’s youth, junior captain Kristin Mannion. extra practices to solidify our return to the Stadium after offense and getting all our Gerspach’s sqaud is not intimi-“We have been working on playbook. It gave us a chance falling just short of the title last freshmen as much experience dated and is excited to return the basics, trying to get back to to move the freshmen around year. as possible,” Babes senior cap-to play. the fundamentals,” she said. at some different positions to 
“We expect to win,” sopho-tain Katie McNelis said. “We’ve got a lot of young tal-“We are going to be aggressive find their strongest spots.” more receiver Alice Yerokun McNelis emphasized the long-ent, and we just didn’t adjust each and every game by play-The Wild Women (0-0) hope said. “Our goal is to go back to term consequence of the game quickly enough to the speed of ing with hustle and high ener-that an infusion of youth will the championship game and in terms of player development, the game,” Gerspach said. “The gy. With our talent and play-help them reach their goals, as win, no matter what.” as she expects her team to coaches and the team are going makers, I am fully expecting a number of talented freshmen 
Meanwhile, the Shamrocks come together and improve in to work hard, and we’re going our team to win the champi-join a squad that stormed (1-0) have a difficult task in the weeks to come. into this Sunday with confi-onship.” through the regular season last stopping Yerokun and senior “One of our most important dence and a new attitude.” The Pyros will be looking to year before losing in the semifi­quarterback Simone Bigi in goals for this year is to inte-Despite the score of Badin’s senior quarterback Maggie nals to eventual champion Pasquerilla West’s dynamic grate a lot of freshmen into BP last game, Howard’s players Waller for offensive leadership. Howard. triple-option offense, which football,” she said. “We want are not taking the team lightly. Her experience and talent “Our goal is to get to the sta­accumulated 26 points and them to have a great first-year The Ducks, coming off an 18-6 under center will be key if dium this year. We were close over 150 yards of offense on a experience and also to create a victory over Lewis, are working Pasquerilla East is to accom-last year,” Rawding said. “We sturdy Welsh Family defense in unified team that can win hard to stay undefeated in plish its goals. lost to Howard in the semifinals the Purple Weasels’ win last games. After our last few sea-league play. Howard senior “Maggie is a great quarter-in a close game. That was obvi­week. Similarly, the Shamrocks sons, expectations for our team captain Kayla Bishop realizes back and her experience will ously a tough loss. We return a shut out the Wildcats of Ryan, might not be high, but we feel that the Bullfrogs are looking take us far,” Mannion said. lot of players and have a group who boast a strong running this season we have the skill to pull off the upset. Waller will have a tough of enthusiastic freshmen, so we game and a downfield passing and dedication to surprise “We’re excited to have Badin match-up this weekend against think we have a good chance.” threat. everyone.” coming up this Sunday,” Bishop a Lewis defense that held Opposing them will be Ryan 
“We saw a running attack Lyons struggled to get the said. “We know that they’ll Howard, the defending champi-(0-1), who showed plenty of tal­from Ryan last weekend which ball moving offensively last have something to prove after ons, to a mere eighteen points ent but failed to put points on will help to stop [Pasquerilla week, but displayed a finely last week, but we’re going to be this past Sunday. Her counter-the scoreboard in a 12-0 loss to West’s] running game,” tuned defense that may be the honing our skills on both sides part, Lewis quarterback McGlinn on Sunday. Ryan is led McGlinn senior captain Gillian key to earning their first victo-of the ball this week in order to Connaught Blood, brings inten-by sophomore quarterback Allsup said. “The key will be ry. be ready for them.” sity and a high level of tough-Maya Pillai and her scramble-sticking on our girls and being Breen-Phillips and Lyons both Bishop credits her own ness to her offense that may heavy offensive arsenal. Pillai aggressive.” look to get in the win column team’s success last week to the prove crucial in a tight game. and her team will come out 
In addition to a strong run-Sunday at 6 p.m. at LaBar. team’s defensive squad. Lewis senior captain Sarah against Walsh even hungrier ning game, the Purple Weasels “Our defense did a really Ceponis has been working to for their first win after the boast a dominating defense Badin vs. Howard great job this past Sunday in instill a sense of intensity in her opening loss. that gave up a total of 49 yards Badin Hall has a lot to prove containing the offense, and squad, and she issued a warn-“Have you ever been to the in their last contest. Against in its Sunday afternoon we’re hoping to continue that ing to the Pyros on the heels of circus and seen the wildcats this stout defensive unit, the matchup against a team that it success against Badin,” Bishop that effort. devour the ringmaster?” fresh-McGlinn offense, able to score knows well, South Quad neigh-said. “Lewis football has always man wide receiver Sara only 12 points against Ryan last bor Howard. The Bullfrogs (0-Though Howard has the been about having fun, but McGuirk said. “That’s what week, could quickly find itself 1) do not have a lot of time to experience, the Bullfrogs plan starting Sunday it’s going to be they [Wild Women] are in for in a hole. recover from their tough 40-6 to embrace the role of the about destroying our opponents on Sunday.” 
The two defensive-minded loss to Pangborn before taking underdogs as they go back to while still having fun, of The battle between the two squads will battle at 4 p.m. on the Ducks (1-0), the defend-the drawing board to create a course,” she said. “We weren’t intense squads will be held at Sunday at the LaBar Practice ing women’s champions. successful upset strategy. quite ready for our first game, LaBar at 3 p.m. Complex. The Badin players know that The two South Quad neigh-but I don’t think [Pasquerilla 
this game could be a defining bors meet Sunday at LaBar at 2 East] is ready for our next.” Contact Laura Coletti at Breen-Phillips vs. Lyons point in their season and are p.m. Pasquerilla East opens its lcoletti@nd.edu, Andrew 
Breen-Phillips and Lyons will hoping to get their first win this season against a hungry Lewis Gastelum at agastelum@nd.edu, clash Sunday, with each hoping weekend. Badin senior captain Pasquerilla East vs. Lewis squad Sunday at 1 p.m. at Ian Garrahy at igarrahy@nd.edu, to earn its first win of the sea-and defensive lineman Elise Coming off a bye week, LaBar. Sarah Crippin at son and avoid a damaging 0-2 Gerspach is especially enthusi-Pasquerilla East will see its scrippin@nd.edu, Adam Llorens start. The Babes (0-1) lost 6-0 astic even after last week’s loss, first game action this Sunday Walsh vs. Ryan at allorens@nd.edu and Chris to Cavanaugh last Sunday as her team has been practic-against a Lewis team also hun-Looking to move one step fur-Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

Winless Belles searching for offense before MIAAplay begins 
opportunity to gauge their and three goals of her own. Belles by adding onto her team-“The big thing for us is to play 
By ROBERT GRAHAM 

strengths and weaknesses as Illinois Tech’s goalkeeper, sopho-high eleven shots. She and junior with confidence,” he said. “A 
Sports Writer 

MIAA play approaches. more Amy Arnhart, has also been forward Katelyn Tondo-Steele number of losses affects your Illinois Tech comes into South impressive so far, giving up fewer have accounted for almost 40 confidence, but we’ll be hungry 
After a 3-0 loss Wednesday Bend with an impressive 5-2 than two goals a game on aver-percent of the team’s shots this for a victory.” night to Elmhurst (5-1), Saint record. The Belles will need to age. year. If the Belles can start to correct Mary’s will need to collect them-contain a potent scoring attack Aside from playing strong Joyce pointed out that that some of these issues tonight, they selves quickly before it hosts for the Scarlet Hawks, who are defensively, the Belles look to try might be a statistic indicative of may be able to begin their confer-Illinois Tech on Friday. headlined by the play of sopho-to generate more scoring the fact that the team’s offensive ence schedule with the momen-
The Belles (0-6) are still in more Lauren Capuano and junior chances. The Belles have an struggles might be solved with tum needed to generate several search of their first win of the Emily Tilton. MIAA-low two goals to show for more ball distribution. wins. Tonight’s game kicks off at year with only three games Capuano, a midfielder, has their efforts so far. “We’ll concentrate on our Saint Mary’s at 5:30 p.m. remaining until conference play scored a team-high eight points Freshman midfielder Mollie offensive movement,” Joyce said. begins. The Scarlet Hawks should and four goals on the year, while Valencia will need to continue to For Joyce, however, the biggest Contact Robert Graham at provide this team with another Tilton has contributed six points generate scoring chances for the key for his team is to be assertive. rgraham@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

If you or someone you care about solutions, or cures, have chosen “ has been sexually assaulted, we If you're alone, I'll be your shadow. rather to share our pain and touch Maybe mistakes are what make our
FOR SALE PERSONAL can help. For more information, visit If you want to cry, I'll be your shoul-our wounds with a warm and tender fate... without them what would Notre Dame's website: der.  If you want a hug, I'll be your hand. The friend who can be silent shape our lives? Maybe if we had http://csap.nd.edu. pillow.  If you need to be happy, I'll with us in a moment of despair or never veered off course we would­——————————————— be your smile. But anytime you confusion, who can stay with us in n't fall in love, have babies, or be 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't May the road rise to meet you. need a friend, I'll just be me. an hour of grief and bereavement, who we are. After all, things 
go it alone. Notre Dame has many May the wind be always at your ~Author Unknown who can tolerate not knowing, not change, so do cities, people come Mountain bike. Brand new in box (3 resources in place to assist you. If back. curing, not healing and face with us into your life and they go. But it's parts). Cheap. 574-261-1628 you or someone you love needs May the sun shine warm upon your ——————————————— the reality of our powerlessness, comforting to know that the ones 
confidential support or assistance, face. that is a friend who cares. ~Henri you love are always in your heart... please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 And rains fall soft upon your fields. When we honestly ask ourselves Nouwen and if you're very lucky, a plane ride or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more And until we meet again, which person in our lives mean the away” information, visit ND's website at: May God hold you in the hollow of most to us, we often find that it is -Sex and the City http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. His hand. those who, instead of giving advice, 
——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Friday, September 17, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
MEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Stanford and Keenan to battle for the Chapel 
Siegfried champions take on winless Duncan; Morrissey and Knott hope for playoff return; Zahm and Fisher seek improvement 
By JOSEPH MONARDO, SAM 
GANS, DAVID KENNEY, 
VICTORIA JACOBSEN, JACK 
HEFFERON and MATT 
UNGER 
Sports Writers 
Stanford and Keenan are something of an anomaly on the Notre Dame campus. They share the same building. They share the same chapel. They share the same doorway, same front lounge and same basic architecture. On Sunday, how­ever, the two dorms will share the same football field as the annual Battle for the Chapel takes place in the first weekend of the season. 
Stanford’s undefeated regular season ended abruptly in the first round of the playoffs fol­lowing a loss to St. Edward’s, but with 17 returning players, the sky is the limit. Led by sen­ior quarterback Tony Rizzo, the Griffins praise aggressiveness on both sides of the ball. 
“Game plan is to come out and play a hard four quarters,” Rizzo said. “Attack on offense, we’re not going to sit back and let the other team score. Defense last year we gave up three touchdowns all season, so we are going to try to keep up our tradition of hard defense.” 
Lining up against the Griffins on Sunday will be the Knights of Keenan Hall, who also hope their season will culminate in the Stadium. Following a disap­pointing 1-2-1 season last year, the Knights are back with a simplified offense and a solid offensive line. Senior running back, defensive back and co-captain Jamie Koepsel said his team will have to work hard to get to where they want to be this season, but he remains con­fident. 
“We’ve got the talent to do it, we have the personnel to do it,” Koepsel said. “All we have to do is execute on Sundays.” 
On the defensive side of the ball, the Knights will look to their other captain, senior mid­dle linebacker Bart Dear, to help them slow down Rizzo and the Griffins’ attack. Rizzo, however, is familiar with what Dear brings to the field. 
“I played against him in high school,” Rizzo said. “So we kind of jaw back and forth. In years past it always comes down to a touchdown or less between the two of us.” 
If Rizzo’s analysis rings true, spectators are in for an enter­taining game. The game will be played at 3 p.m. Sunday. 
Duncan vs Siegfried 
Last season could not have gone more differently for the teams of Siegfried and Duncan. Siegfried ended the year on top, winning their second straight championship in Notre Dame Stadium, while Duncan finished winless at 0-3-1. This year, they open the season against each other, in the first matchup in Blue League play. 
Duncan hopes to use the ground game to spark an improvement from last season. 
“The goal in this league is always to be mostly run, because the pass is risky,” Duncan junior captain and offensive and defensive lineman Paul Scheel said. “We intend to control the clock and posses­sion, but we’ll vary depending on the game situation.” 
The Highlanders will rely heavily on their lone senior, Andrew Wiand, who can play a wide range of positions includ­ing quarterback, running back and slot receiver. Another key contributor will be junior Brett Leahy, a tight end on offense and defensive lineman and line­backer on defense, along with junior safety and slot receiver Adam Zaabel. 
Siegfried will try to pick up where they left off last season with a mixed attack that leans towards the run. 
“We do try to balance it out,” Siegfried senior captain and offensive tackle Michael McDonnell said. “But our biggest strength is our running game.” 
The Ramblers will look towards junior fullback and linebacker John Aversa and senior quarterback Matt Meinert for big production as they look to defend their title. 
While there are many new faces on Siegfried this year, McDonnell understands expec­tations are still high and the goal is to three-peat. 
“We realize we have a target on our backs,” McDonnell said, “But we’ll try to move through it.” 
The young Duncan team will look to pull off an upset of the champs at Riehle Fields Sunday at 1 p.m. 
Morrissey vs. Knott 
The opening weekend of the men’s interhall schedule will be highlighted by a greatly antici­pated Blue League matchup between Morrissey and Knott, as both teams look to start off with a win after reaching the playoffs last season. 
Adding to a number of estab­lished veterans that led the team to a strong regular season showing in 2009, Morrissey will debut a number of new faces on this year’s squad. Included in the new faces will be Nick Conrad, a freshman and the new starting quarterback for The Manor. 
Looking to stop the upstart Morrissey team will be an extremely confident Juggerknott squad that also went to last year’s playoffs. They are led this season by team captain and senior fullback Dan Shaffer. Shaffer is building his team’s identity around physical play and hoping that toughness will take them to the top. 
“We plan to be the hardest hitting team on Sunday,” Shaffer said. 
With confidence in their veter­an playmakers, Shaffer said his team would look to build on last year’s positive momentum. 
“This year we’d like to take it even further,” Shaffer said. “Our goal is to make it to the champi­onship and build on last year’s playoff win.” 
Morrissey also has lofty post­season hopes. 
Both teams are eagerly await­ing the season and a chance to hit some opponents, beginning Sunday at 2 p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
Zahm vs. Fisher 
Improvement will be the focus on Sunday, as two teams coming off disappointing seasons will look to push for a playoff run as Fisher meets Zahm. 
Zahm ended the 2009 season winless and struggled to put points on the board all season, while Fisher recorded two wins and two losses on the season, which put them on the outside looking in when playoff time rolled around. 
Even more disappointing than the poor records, however, was the lack of intensity and focus demonstrated by both teams. 
“We didn’t show up mentally,” Fisher senior captain Michael McMahon said. “So we’re look­ing to improve on that.” 
Zahm Hall senior captain Mark Pomerenke expressed similar sentiments, saying that the Zahmbies are looking to increase enthusiasm while also unveiling a more dynamic offen­sive system. 
“I know a lot of people would-n’t give us a chance to win,” Pomerenke said of last year’s campaign. “But it’s a volatile game.” 
Although the Zahmbies are a relatively young team with inex­perience at many key positions, they have set high goals for themselves, aiming to win their four scheduled games and earn a playoff berth. 
McMahon is also optimistic, saying that the Green Wave plans to win games and improve from last year under the offen­sive tutelage and tactical genius of senior coach Eric Prister. 
“We’re excited,” McMahon said. “We want to get to the sta­dium.” 
The clash of improving squads will begin Sunday at 1 p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
St. Ed’s vs. Sorin 
After falling just short of com­pleting an improbable champi­onship run last season, the Gentlemen from St. Edward’s will begin their quest to return to Notre Dame Stadium against a strong squad from Sorin that also made the playoffs in 2009. 
St. Edward’s squeaked into the playoffs last year as the No. 8 seed, but then made a run all the way to the championship game before losing to Siegfried, 41-12. The Gentlemen’s junior captain, running back Jay Mathes, has made the goal for this year’s squad clear: get back to the Stadium. 
“Obviously we’d like to get back,” Mathes said. “We have a pretty deep team. We don’t real­ly have one guy who’s going to excel over anybody else.” 
That depth will be a strong area for the Gentlemen, a team that lost only four seniors from last year’s runner-up squad. Mathes also plans to run an aggressive, between the tackles offense. 
“This year we’re really trying to establish the run game,” Mathes said. “We feel like we have a lot of speed on offense.” 
Sorin also enters this season with lofty goals after a dominat­ing campaign last year. The Otters’ defense did not allow a point in an undefeated regular season that earned them a No. 2 seed in the playoffs. A first round upset by eventual cham­pion Siegfried ended their hopes of advancing, but junior wide receiver Bobby Sullivan has hope for a better result this year. 
“We expect nothing less than the best from our guys,” Sullivan said. 
Sullivan has especially high hopes for his offense, which will feature an option attack. 
“If you liked what you saw out of Denard Robinson on Saturday,” Sullivan said, “Come see us run the option.” 
Kickoff will be at 2 p.m. Sunday at Riehle Fields. 
O’Neill vs. Keough 
For O’Neill and Keough, rival­ry week arrives early in a week one matchup as both teams look to improve on disappointing campaigns last season. 
“It’s strange that this rivalry game falls in the first week of the season,” Keough senior cap­tain Kevin Laughlin said. “But once the game starts, we’re going to treat it like any other and try to establish an identity.” 
Both teams look to change their identities quickly after dis­appointing seasons in 2009. For Keough to improve upon its 1-2­1 mark in 2009, youth will be the name of the game. Freshman Aaron Grinsteinner and Mike Fischer will start at quarterback and running back respectively. Laughlin believes that these players fit his offen­sive system, which will take teams by surprise with its vari­ety of plays and balanced attack. 
On the defensive end, Laughlin captains an athletic, fast squad that could counter spread-like offensive systems traditionally run by division rivals. Senior cornerback Brian Koepsel and sophomore defen­sive end Rob Toole are both expected to be impact players. 
Meanwhile, the 2009 O’Neill squad finished 1-3, a poor record that senior captain Guy Schwartz attributed to some athletes studying abroad and others simply not participating in interhall football. However, this year the Mob held tryouts due to a larger initial roster and are optimistic about their added depth. 
Schwartz expects senior run­ning back Tom Friel to provide leadership for an offense whose quarterback has not yet been determined. Also, senior Bob Powers, who played quarter­back his freshmen and sopho­more years, will serve as the Mob’s offensive coordinator, providing experienced play call­ing. 
The West Quad battle of up­and-coming teams will be held at Riehle Fields Sunday at 3 p.m. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at 
jmonardo@nd.edu, Sam Gans 
at sgan@nd.edu, David 
Kenney at dkenney1@nd.edu, 
Victoria Jacobsen at 
vjacobse@nd.edu, Jack 
Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
and Matt Unger at 
munger3@nd.edu 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish host teams for National Catholic Invitational 
nation, including Marquette, month. Springer finished in pleasing aspect of that race 27. Junior Susanna Sullivan 
By ROBERT GRAHAM 

Detroit-Mercy, Dayton, San first place overall with a time was the performance of the led the squad with a time of 
Sports Writer 

Francisco and St. Mary’s of of 19:34.50. He was followed freshmen, who will undoubt-18:17.50. Classmate Molly California will take on the by teammates Thomas Noel, edly need to step up their Hirt finished close behind in After a strong performance course. Darryl Varney, Kevin Jacobs efforts on Friday. third with a time of 18:35.10. 
at the Valparaiso Crusader The men’s team, which fin-and Michael Tripp, who fin-The women’s squad should With their first collegiate Open on Sept. 3, the Irish look ished in first place at the ished in second, third, fourth also have high expectations race under their belts, the to repeat successful finishes Crusader Open, will look to and sixth respectively. for today’s race after its freshmen on this year’s squad as they host the National senior Paul Springer to repli-Of those listed above, both strong performance at look to contribute significantly Catholic Invitational this cate the performance that Varney and Jacobs are fresh-Valparaiso. Like the men, the this weekend. 

Friday at the Notre Dame Golf 
won him Big East Cross men. In an interview with women finished first overall 
Course. Several elite pro ­

Country Athlete of the Week Irish coach Joe Piane follow-with 26 points, just edging out Contact Robert Graham at grams from around the Honors at the beginning of the ing the race, he said the most Western Michigan’s total of rgraham@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, September 17, 2010 
NFL 

Bush decides to end Heisman controversy 

METAIRIE, La. — Reggie Bush said Thursday that his decision to relinquish his Heisman Trophy is “not an admission of guilt,” just the best way to end the controversy. 
“It’s me showing respect to the Heisman Trophy itself and to the people who came before me and the people coming after,” Bush said after Saints practice. “I just felt like it was the best thing to do, the most respectful thing to do because obviously I do respect the Heisman. I do respect all the things it stands for.” 
The Heisman Trophy Trust had discussed reviewing Bush’s eligibility for the award after an NCAA report concluded that Bush and his family had improperly accepted cash and gifts from sports agents while Bush was playing for Southern Cal. 
Bush said he thought return­ing the award was the best way to move forward. 
“I felt just to kind of silence all the talk around it, all the nega­tivity around it — I felt like this would be the best decision to do right now so I could focus.” 
Bush was the landslide winner of the Heisman following a high­light-filled 2005 season in which he piled up 2,890 all-purpose yards and helped lead USC to the BCS national title game, which the Trojans lost to Texas. 
Bush is now the first winner in the 75-year history of the Heisman — one of the most prestigious prizes in American sports — to forfeit the award. 
“I feel like he’s tried to put himself in a position to do what­ever he can do to help the situa­tion,” said Saints defensive tack­le Sedrick Ellis, also a former USC teammate of Bush. “He’s always been a good guy as long as I’ve known him at USC and here in New Orleans. ... Hopefully (people will) finally leave him alone about it. It’s five or six years ago. We need to let it go and move on.” 
Coach Sean Payton said Bush has “matured a ton here since we drafted him” and has “the full support of the players in the locker room.” 
“I know that he feels like this is a family — a close-knit family 
— and for him, just like the rest of us, it’s about winning champi­onships,” Payton said. “He’s done that once already and we’re aspiring to win more.” 
Bush said he consulted family and some associates before for­feiting the Heisman, a move some of those close to him opposed. 
“My mom and dad didn’t want me to give it back,” Bush said. “That’s just the motherly and fatherly nature of parents. They understand it at the end of the day. They understand I’m a grown man and I’ve got to make my own decisions and this is a learning experience for me and anybody else coming after me. ... All I can do is grow stronger from here.” 
Allegations that Bush and his parents had accepted improper benefits while he was still an amateur athlete surfaced in 2006 and the NCAA began a years-long probe into the matter soon afterward. 
The probe concluded this year and the NCAA in June cited USC for failing to monitor its athletes closely enough and punished the Trojans football program severely. The NCAA imposed a two-year postseason ban on USC and reduced scholarships. 
While not admitting to any­thing in the report, Bush has said he regrets that his actions in some way led to sanctions against USC and caused contro­versy around his title of Heisman winner. 
“I’m not happy this hap­pened,” Bush said. “This is just a part of life. This is a part of growing pains and becoming more mature. You learn. You grow. You get better. You get stronger and hopefully you never make those same mis­takes again. 
“How do I clear my name? I don’t know. I’m not sure. This is the first time I’ve been in this situation,” Bush added. “I’ve obviously got to brainstorm and get together with my team and see what we can do. I’m here to lend a helping hand to USC and any time they need me and any time I can do something to help them, they know I’m just a phone call away.” 
Bush said he hopes putting the matter behind him allows him to focus more on things like help­ing the Saints defend their 2009 championship. 
“All I can do is focus on the future and move ahead and move on with my life and try to continue to help the New Orleans Saints win games, every year, year in and year out and be a constant contender in this league,” Bush said. 
Bush said he also wants to start a program to help high school and college athletes deal with the pressures and tempta­tions that come when their abili­ty provides them celebrity and fame before they’ve turned pro. 
“You’re still a kid, but you’re still asked to make adult deci­sions,” Bush said, alluding to a handful of college teams — including North Carolina, Alabama, Georgia and South Carolina — dealing with probes into whether their players had improper contact with agents. 
“Whatever the NCAA has, whatever programs they have, aren’t working and it needs to be changed. If it’s not changed, it’s going to continue and it has­n’t stopped yet,” Bush said. “It’s going to continue year after year after year and you’re going to see kids be ineligible. You’re going to see great athletes miss­ing their junior and senior year and seasons because the system doesn’t work. 
“Obviously something has to be changed. You’ve got universi­ties making millions of dollars off these kids and they don’t get paid. The majority of college athletes who come in on schol­arship come in (with) nothing. That’s where you have a prob­lem. You’re making all this money off these kids and you’re giving them crumbs and then you’re surrounding these kids with money and telling them not to touch it.” 


Friday, September 17, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
Michigan 
continued from page 16 
cating their new stadium on Friday night,” Clark said. “They’re going to be pretty excit­ed to play that game. I think they’ve been waiting to play Notre Dame to do the dedica­tion.” 
Regardless of what promises to be a hostile atmosphere, Clark believes his squad is prepared to notch a road win. Notre Dame is 7-1-1 all-time against Michigan, including a 5-0 win last season against the Wolverines in the Alumni Stadium opener. 
“There’s no question it’s a great rivalry, a natural rivalry between Notre Dame and Michigan and Michigan State,” Clark said. “Our players will respond positively and they’ll play well.” 
If the Irish are to extend their good fortunes against the Wolverines, they will have to con­tain a strong Michigan attack led by freshman sensation Soony Saad, who paces the squad with four goals. 
“They’re a very good attacking team,” Clark said. “Their for­wards are two of the best we’ll face, and that’s the challenge to our defenders. They’re very good going forward, but so are we. On paper, it should be a game full of attacking.” 
The Irish will return to the friendly confines of Alumni Stadium Sunday against Michigan State (3-1-0), as they look to knock off a squad that defeated No. 7 Maryland in College Park on an overtime goal earlier in the season. The game will have a theme of revenge as the Irish look to avenge a 2-1 loss last season. Clark believes the team will find no shortage of rea­sons to get motivated for Sunday’s contest. 
“I don’t think it’s hard to get the players up for a game between Notre Dame and Michigan State,” Clark said. “A rivalry like that is great for sport, great for both teams. These are two really great soccer games this weekend.” 
Whether or not the Irish prevail this weekend, they can look for­ward to the eventual return of senior goalkeeper and lone cap­tain Phillip Tuttle, who returned to practice Wednesday after an injury kept him sidelined for the beginning of the season. 
“Phil started practicing yester­day,” Clark said. “We had him diving for balls, doing everything except contact really. He looked very good. He’s not ready to play yet, but he’s done everything that he’s supposed to do.” 
Action against Michigan will begin at 7:30 p.m. Friday night in Ann Arbor, and the Michigan State contest will kick off at 2 
p.m. at Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
DePaul 
continued from page 16 
“We’re ready to get started in conference play,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “That’s always a big thing for us, and we’ve had a good history of doing so well.” 
Notre Dame will not only have to contend with a surging DePaul team, but also with a facility that will not be up to the standards of Alumni Stadium. Wish Field dou­bles as the outfield of the DePaul 
Courts 
continued from page 16 
Valparaiso, Vincennes and Western Michigan. 
Junior singles player Casey Watt will be traveling to Chicago this weekend to compete in the Illinois Invitational. After two consecutive selections to the All-Big East team, he returns as a team leader and will play a vital role in how far the Irish go this season. 
In order to prepare for the clay courts it will play on this week­end, Notre Dame has taken a dif­ferent approach in practice this week. 
“The nine guys that are going have been practicing at a local club that has clay courts for the last three days,” Watt said. “We have just been trying to adjust to the new surface. Since this is our first tournament this year and the freshmen’s first college tour­nament, it’s important that we are patient out there on the clay since the court is slower and points will be longer.” 
Watt added that he hopes the inexperienced players will quick­ly adapt to the speed of the col­lege game. 
“I would love to see our fresh­men have a great first tourna­ment and transition into college tennis smoothly,” he said. 
Not only is Watt looking to help the Irish advance deep into the NCAA Tournament, but he is also looking to make some noise indi­vidually. 
“My goal is to hopefully win all my matches, but also just play well because this is my first match since NCAAs last year,” Watt said. 
The tournament will consist of a full slate of action Friday, Saturday and Sunday. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

plan. 
Not only is the facility going to pose a challenge, but the Wildcats themselves will be no pushovers. Earlier this year, Northwestern defeated UCLA (4­1), who is the only team to defeat the Irish this season. 
“It looked statistically like Northwestern had the better run of the play [in that game],” Waldrum said. “They’re obviously fully capable. The coach there does a really good job, and I think she’ll have a team that’s really well-organized.” 
Despite the challenges, the Irish hope to get off to a strong start in Big East play and avoid stum­bling in winnable games early in the season. 
“They’re two games you need to take care of,” Waldrum said. “They’re two games that can clearly present a stumbling block if you’re not ready.” 
The Irish open Big East play in Chicago Friday at 5 p.m. against DePaul and will follow that against Northwestern Sunday at 
5:30 p.m. in Evanston. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
softball field and is composed of AstroTurf instead of grass, posing an additional challenge. 
“DePaul’s a really tough place to play. We always seem to strug­gle to play well there,” Waldrum said. “And they’re a team that can beat you if you’re not ready to play.” 
In addition, Waldrum and his staff must fight off complacency after the Irish’s return from Southern California. 
“I just want to make sure we don’t come back from our California trip and think ‘we’re just playing DePaul’,” Waldrum said. 
After the conference opener, Sunday’s tilt with Northwestern (3-2-2) will be the last nonconfer­ence game in which the Irish will compete before the NCAA Tournament in November. This weekend will also mark the first time an Irish team coached by Waldrum will visit Evanston in the regular season. Lakeside Field could also pose its prob­lems, as it is situated directly on Lake Michigan. The forecast calls for a 50 percent chance of rain, which could pose major chal­lenges to the Notre Dame game 


page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, September 17, 2010 
Sweep 
continued from page 16 
the goal for every tournament is to achieve that same out­come, Brown is making sure not to push her team too hard before the next string of matches. 
“I think it’s one of the things that the team knows what to expect, and they’re used to it. In practice we have to be careful and be aware of how much we’re jumping and swinging.” 
Brown added that part of Notre Dame’s awareness and preparation included watching a lot of film, talking over plays, working through changes and being creative in the coaching. 
An integral factor in the preparation has not been in the Irish offense, an area where they have been suc­cessful all season, but in the defense and blocking after they have served. 
“We haven’t been focusing as much on the serving and passing this week because we knew that we really need to pick up the blocking and defense in this kind of event,” Brown said. 

The Irish have been averag­ing 2.67 blocks per set and 
11.66 digs per set. In addition, they have been working to recognize the offensive pat­terns of their opponents and responding accordingly, a challenge they will face repeatedly this weekend. 
Returning to their home court is a welcome change for the Irish, who have not com­peted at the Purcell Pavilion since Aug. 29. Brown said her squad is looking forward to this weekend’s matches as well as opening the conference season at home next week. 
The Irish will open the Notre Dame Invitational against Delaware (7-3) on Friday at 7 
p.m. at the Purcell Pavilion. The tournament will continue Saturday against Santa Clara (7-3) and Sunday when they face No. 20 Dayton (6-3). 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles ready to take on Calvin 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s will head to Calvin College this weekend to partici­pate in the Calvin Invitational. The Belles will compete against a talented field, including confer­ence foes Alma and Calvin. 
This weekend represents an important turning point in the Belles’ season. Early in the year, the majority of events are either exhibitions or small two-team meets. Belles coach Jackie Bauters said she is eager for her team to begin the more competi­tive portion of its schedule. 
“This week at Calvin we will see some great regional competi­tion, a larger meet for us to real­ly be competitive in. There are some very solid D-III, D-II and NAIA teams coming to Calvin this weekend,” Bauters said. 
Because this is not strictly an MIAA competition, the team will not necessarily be focused on where they finish, but rather on meeting personal goals and developing cohesion as a unit. 
“Finishing a certain place is not really as much of an empha­sis as performing well individual­ly and collectively as a group,” Bauters said. 
Although this meet does not count towards the Belles’ confer­ence record, the team will pre­pare vigilantly for the weekend. 
“This week of practice will give the team confidence in their rac­ing,” Bauters said. “We are working on our focus and work­ing hard through the middle of the race. As a team, our goals are to work together and have some stellar times, giving them a real itch for the conference meet the following weekend.” 
This preparation paired with past success in the race has given Bauters optimism heading into the weekend. 
“Just about everyone raced very well last year at Calvin, and I would imagine the same to be true this year,” she said. “I’m excited to see what some of the ladies will do. I think there might be some unexpected great finish­es.” 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 


SMC GOLF 

Hopes high after frst-place fnish 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Coming off an impressive first-place performance in the second MIAA Jamboree of the season Tuesday, the No. 5 Belles will test their mettle against the best teams in the country this weekend at the O’Brien National Invitational at the Warren Golf Course. 
Saint Mary’s coach Mark Hamilton said the competition would be just as good, if not better than it was last year, when the Belles finished third. 
“Outside of the national championships, this is the best field we’ll face all year,” Hamilton said. 


Teeing off against the Belles will be Methodist University, Gustavus Adolphus, Wisconsin-Eau Claire, Southwestern, DePauw, George Fox, Allegheny, Centre and Olivet. All are top -10 teams. 
The first-place finish for Saint Mary’s on Tuesday is just a glimpse of the potential the Belles have yet to reach. 
“We saw the tip of the ice­berg Tuesday,” Hamilton said. “We’re starting to make the changes that need to be made. The players are adapting to how I coach on the course, and I’m adapting to the way they play.” 
Although it was only the Belles’ third tournament of the year, Hamilton thinks his players are already nearing midseason form. 
“We’re pretty close to where we need to be,” Hamilton said. 
As a team, the Belles set a conference course record with a cumulative score of 321, six shots better than the previous record of 327 shot by Olivet in 2008. Senior captain Mary Kate Boyce finished tied for first, as she handed in a course record score in confer­ence play of 78. 
Finishing third in a field with the top 10 teams in the country is no easy feat, but Hamilton would like to see Saint Mary’s do even better this time around. 
“I’d like to see us to better,” Hamilton said. “If we play well, we’ve got a shot.” 
Going into the second MIAA Jamboree Tuesday, the Belles wanted to prove that they are the premier team in the con­ference. This weekend, the Belles look to prove that they are the best team in the nation. 
Play is scheduled to tee off at 1 p.m. Sunday and 8 a.m. Monday at the Warren Golf Course. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
NHL 

Quenneville set to stay despite cap casualties 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — After the Chicago Blackhawks won their first Stanley Cup in 49 years last June, extending the con­tract of coach Joel Quenneville was a no-brainer for general manager Stan Bowman. 
And for once during the off­season, Bowman didn’t have to consider the NHL’s salary cap in making a key personnel decision — one that lengthens Quenneville’s deal through 2013 -14. The Blackhawks have had to shed eight play­ers, including playoff heroes Antti Niemi and Dustin Byfuglien, from their champi­onship roster due to the league’s $59.4 million player payroll limit. 
“We’ve talked a lot about the cap and thankfully this wasn’t something that we had to worry about that way,” Bowman said. “We’ve got some fresh (player) faces com­ing into the mix, but I also think it’s important to say the flipside of that is the stability we have up top, particularly behind the bench with Joel leading the group.” 
Financial terms of Quenneville’s three-year extension weren’t disclosed Thursday. He had one year remaining on a three-year contract he signed when he took the Chicago coaching job four games into the 2008-09 season after Denis Savard was fired. 
Not only did Quenneville lead the Blackhawks to their first Cup since 1961, he became just the 14th coach to win 500 games. He previously coached at St. Louis and Colorado. 

Friday, September 17, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


JEFF KNUREK
SCOTT MITCHELL and MATT MOMONT 
THE MATING RITUAL 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports

Friday, September 17, 2010 page 16 
MEN’S SOCCER 

More Michigan 
Big games approach after weekend wins 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Just as the Irish football team has been preoccupied with oppo­nents from the state of Michigan, No. 24 Notre Dame will take the pitch for two huge rivalry games against Michigan opponents this weekend. The Irish face off against Michigan Friday, before opposing No. 15 Michigan State Sunday as part of the Big East/Big Ten Challenge. 
Fresh off the annual Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament over the weekend in which the Irish (2-1-1) notched a 2-0 victo­ry over No. 22 Drake (5-3) and a 5-1 win against Cal Poly (2-2), Irish coach Bobby Clark’s squad heads up to Michigan (3-1-1) Friday night to play in an atmos­phere that Clark expects to be especially rowdy. 

“It’ll be a big day for them, especially because they’re dedi-SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 
Senior forward Steven Perry goes for the ball against Cal Poly on Sept. 12. The Irish hope see MICHIGAN/page 13 to continue their winning streak after this 5-1 victory. 

MEN’S TENNIS 
Watt leads squad onto clay courts 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
After appearing in 19 of the last 20 NCAA Tournaments, the Irish head into the 2010-11 sea­son with extremely high expecta­tions. 
The first test for the Irish comes this weekend when the squad splits to play in two tour­naments, the Illinois Invitational and the Purdue Invitational. The participants in the Illinois Invitational include Wake Forest, Alabama, Florida State and Illinois. All four teams earned a berth in the NCAA Tournament last season. Of the four teams, only Alabama did not advance to the second round. 
In West Lafayette, Notre Dame will face Arkansas, Case Western, DePaul, Dayton, Iowa, Morehead State, Southern Illinois, UW-Green Bay, 
see COURTS/page 14 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Farley, Cavanaugh plan to continue strong defense 
(1-0) only allowed one touch-and with a little more practice “This week in practice is er Molly Casanova said. “We 
By LAURA COLETTI, 

down in each of their victories this week we are looking for about smoothing out the rough want all of our girls to come 
ANDREW GASTELUM, IAN 

last weekend, and neither team better execution in the next edges and making sure we are out with the same attitude that 
GARRAHY, SARAH CRIPPIN, 

was able to convert extra point game.” executing on every play,” Hinz we did last Sunday and be 
ADAM LLORENS and CHRIS 

attempts. This year’s women’s interhall said. “With a shorter season ready to win.” 
ALLEN 

Despite playing a position on season is different from years this year, every game really Farley will square off against 
Sports Writers 

offense, having a strong past. Some rules have been counts.” Cavanaugh Sunday at 6:00 pm. defense is just how Cavanaugh changed, and now there are The Finest know that they at the LaBar Practice Complex. 
When Farley and Cavanaugh senior receiver Holly Hinz seven players on the field for will be facing a tough side in square off Sunday, one touch-wants it. each team, as opposed to eight Cavanaugh, but they feel ready Pasquerilla West-McGlinn down may be enough to win “Our defense looked really in previous years. In spite of for the challenge. Pasquerilla West and McGlinn the game, as each team relies good in our first game,” Hinz this change and its effect on “Cavanaugh will be a tough will take the field Sunday in a heavily on its defense to carry said. “They really carried us Cavanaugh’s playbook, the opponent to play this Sunday, showdown of two powerhouse the squad through games. Both through for the win. Our Chaos remain focused on but we are excited for this the Finest (1-0) and the Chaos offense had some good looks, accomplishing their goals. matchup,” Farley senior receiv-see WEASELS/page 10 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Irish head to Chicago for weekend 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
After returning from a trip to sunny Southern California last weekend, No. 7/11 Notre Dame will travel to Chicago this week­end for a two-game swing that figures to be much less welcom­ing, as the Irish (5-1-0) will face two of their toughest road tests of the season. Notre Dame will face DePaul on Friday before clashing with Northwestern on Sunday to round out the trip. 
The battle with the Blue Demons (4-2-2) will serve as the conference opener for both teams, opening a new phase of the schedule, one that is much more critical to Notre Dame’s postseason hopes. 
see DEPAUL/page 13 

ND VOLLEYBALL 

Brown guides team through tournament 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 

Blocking and defending has been Notre Dame’s focus in practice this week, as the defense looks to set the tone for this weekend’s Notre Dame Invitational. The Irish hope to continue the success they have shown in recent tournaments on the road as they return to their home court to welcome No. 20 Dayton, Delaware and Santa Clara. 
This weekend marks the fourth consecutive three-day tournament the Irish have competed in, a tough schedule for any team. But they have been working it to their advantage. 
“The opportunity to play three matches each weekend is really important for us, and it helps us work out the bugs that we see and just form the lineup that we need and get the team playing together,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “It’s difficult to play physically, back-to-back-to­back like that, but I feel it’s really good preparation for us.” 
Last weekend, Notre Dame (7-2) swept all three of their matches at Denver’s Pioneer Invitational, the first three-match invite sweep the Irish have had since 2005. While 
see SWEEP/page 14 





