the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Weekend Transpo route ‘popular’ 
New bus schedule transports an average of 150 students per weekend, will continue through May 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
After a recent review of the Transpo weekend bus system, student government officials said the initiative has been a “popular” and much-appreci­ated service for students since it began operations Dec. 4. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said he is pleased with the ongoing value Transpo has provided to mem­bers of the Notre Dame com­munity by enabling Notre Dame students to travel to popular off-campus establish­ments for free. 
“Overall I think that this has been a great collaboration with Transpo and essentially, the city of South Bend,” Schmidt said. “It’s been a con­venient way for students to go off campus and a safe means of them getting home.” 

On the first Friday Transpo was available, 496 Notre Dame students used the service. Since the second weekend of operation, the number of rid­ers has consistently totaled roughly 150 students on MEGAN SMITH/The Observer 
The Transpo bus route has had “high rider numbers,” student body president Grant Schmidt see TRANSPO/page 6 said, since its December launch. Schmidt said he hopes the service is continued next year. 




College of Engineering opens Wireless Institute 


RAs selected for 2010-11 
Resident assistants hope to build ‘camaraderie’ within the campus dorms 

By LILY HOUGH 
News Writer 
Your smart phone, laptop and various other wireless devices all have one thing in common — they are vying for frequencies in an already congested wireless radio spectrum. 
While a slower Internet connection may frustrate students, a team of Notre Dame faculty sees it as an exciting research opportuni­ty. 

“Today, people want the Internet in the palm of their hand,” said Dr. J. Nicolas Laneman, associate profes­sor of electrical engineering. “Mobile wireless devices are keeping them increasingly connected, but they are gen­erating so much traffic that they are clogging up today’s networks. Eventually users are going to be very frustrat­ed when they can’t access 
see WIRELESS/page 6 


By KATLYN SMITH 
News Writer 
While most rising seniors are finalizing plans to live off campus or preparing for room picks, a select few will be ful­filling the role of resident assistant (RA) in the dorms. 
Michael Daly is one of sev­eral juniors who learned last week that he had been select­ed as an RA for 2010-11. Daly acknowledged the value of being an RA his senior year. 
“As a senior, you really know about the ups and downs and the challenges that you are going to encounter,” Daly said. “I think it’s really important to have someone who has been through those experiences, to be a founda­tion and source of counsel for students.” 
Christopher Harvan, who was selected to be a Dillon RA, said he was drawn to the position because of the close relationship between RAs and residents. 
“I applied because such a significant part of Notre Dame is living in the dorm. So specifically in Dillon, there’s a big emphasis on camaraderie in the dorm and its starts with the RA staff, and it trickles down to all students,” Harvan said. “I wanted to be able to provide that camaraderie and let incoming freshmen have a positive experience in the dorm.” 



NDSP investigates assault case on campus 

Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) is investigating a sexual assault reported Tuesday. 
According to an e-mail sent to the student body Thursday, the assault took place in a campus residence hall on Feb. 28. 
The reported assault was com­mitted by an acquaintance, NDSP said in the e-mail. 
NDSP is required by federal law to report sexual assaults occuring on campus. 
The most recent prior sexual assault was reported on Jan. 23. A student reported being assault­ed around 2 a.m. on the north­west side of campus. The victim was approached from behind and then assaulted. 
Information about sexual assault prevention and resources for survivors of sexual assault is available from NDSP at ndsp.nd.edu and at the Office of Student Affairs Web site at osa.nd.edu/health-safety/assault/ 


Fr. Paul Doyle, rector of Dillon Hall, received 20 appli­cations for nine RA spots. According to Doyle, the dorm typically receives 15 to 16 applications. 
Doyle cited a desire to develop community as a rea­son for the high numbers. 
see RA/page 8 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Spring Break service trip page 3  Men’s basketball defeats UConn page 24  Oscars preview page 12  Viewpoint page 10 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Take a break 

With Spring Break nearly upon us, I think it’s time that we all take a good second look and enjoy the second half of that glorious phrase Break. Mmm, drink it in. Matthew Robison 
As college students, we Sports Wire get caught up Editor in all we have going on, stress about it, then stress about stressed we are. Thankfully, the University gives us a break midway through the semester, and we all need to take advantage. 
Now, don’t get me wrong, I have great respect for everyone per­forming service this break with programs like Appalachia. That is an admirable way to spend your free time. For those choosing to spend this holiday in sunnier loca­tions with an abundance of deli­cious beverages, let me just say to you that I am jealous. 
I’m headed home to take a break. While I may do the obliga­tory visit to friends at local state schools, hang out with friends from high school, and maybe take a day to enjoy my hometown the way I once did in high school, I plan on ridding my body of as much stress as possible. Eat, sleep, read, sleep, travel at my conven­ience, and, oh yeah, sleep. 
I’m not pretending to be a stress relief expert, but I definitely believe it’s healthy for all of to just sit down and relax. Don’t even let yourself think about school unless absolutely necessary. 
I realize that many students here are overachievers by nature, and there is an element of our over-scheduled, overworked lives that we enjoy. But for this week, let’s put all that aside and recognize that we are in college. We have only a few years, or months for some of us, before we have actual responsibility: full-time employ­ment, families, houses, cars, the whole lot. Many of us have dreamed about “starting our lives” for a long time. The truth is, life has already begun for all of us, so enjoy it while you can. Spring Break is the perfect opportunity to do so. 
Unless there are pressing issues that keep you from doing so, I sug­gest we all take at least one day during break to sleep without set­ting an alarm clock, take a walk without about rushing to class while worrying about if the teacher is going to give a quiz on last night’s reading, or watch TV without trying to pound out a paper at the same time. 
Although I’m only a freshman and have not experienced the stress that comes with higher level courses, job interviews, GREs, MCATs and LSATs, I know one thing: stress is contagious. 
So for your own sake and for the sake of the people you are around, Spring Break is almost here, enjoy it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

CORRECTIONS 

In the March 3 Letter to the Editor in the Viewpoint section, the article titled “Be aware of the R-word” was written by Megan Aldrup, junior, Holy Cross Hall. Additionally, the article titled “Basilica Wedding Madness”was written by Katherine Pierret, alumna, Class of 2009. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOUR SPR NG BREAK PLANS? 








Ana Quijano  Blake Choplin  Daniel Quinlan  Jackie Mirandola  Kyle Hagelskamp  Pat Mikes  
senior Lyons  senior off-campus  junior St. Edward’s  senior Howard  senior Howard  freshman Fisher  
“I’m going to D.C. to visit friends from home.”  “Studying for the MCAT.”  “Just going home to St. Louis to hang with family.”  “I’m playing with a baby raccoon in Mexico.”  “I’m going to play with a pregnant donkey in Mexico.”  “Going to Ft. Lauderdale with some friends for a week.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer The Notre Dame basketball team celebrates in the Purcell Pavillion after beating Connecticut 58-50 Wednesday. With the Senior Day victory, the Irish kept their NCAA Tournament hopes alive. 



OFFBEAT 
Woman pleads ‘not guilty’ to tossing coffee on officer 
BROOKLINE, Mass. — A Rhode Island woman pleaded not guilty in Massachusetts to charges she threw a hot cup of coffee on a parking enforcement officer. Krystle Charley was arraigned Wednesday in Brookline District Court 
on 
charges including assault and battery with a dangerous weapon. 

Police said the 23-year­

old 
resident of North Smithfield, R.I., tossed her coffee at 64-year-old Claire MacPherson in Brookline as MacPherson 


was writing out a $25 ticket for an expired meter on Tuesday. MacPherson was not hurt. 
Charley’s friend, Vicky Curry, who witnessed the 
t o s si n g ,  s a i d  i t  wa s  
M a c P h e r s on  w h o  wa s  
yelling at Charley.  

Man faces charges for three incidents in three hours 
LANCASTER, Pa. — A central Pennsylvania man faces charges for three separate incidents involv­ing police in a span of three hours. Manheim Township police said 49­year-old Mark E. Blaylock was charged with theft of services after allegedly refusing to pay a $69 cab fare around 11 a.m. About an hour later he was charged with public drunk­enness after police said he was found lying on a road near his house. 
Another hour after that, authorities said Blaylock called 911 to request police assistance. Investigators said he was cited for reporting a medical emer­gency without good cause because he told officers he needed them to fill a pre­scription. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Friday Saturday 




IN BRIEF 
Two Fire Station Open Houses will be held at 9 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. today at the Notre Dame Fire Station. The Open House will cele­brate the 130th anniversary of the oldest university fire department in the nation. Notre Dame faculty and staff are invited to attend. 
Daily Mass will be held at 
11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. today in The Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
A lecture titled “A Structural Description of the High Reynolds Number Turbulent Boundary Layer: Possible Implications on Flow Control and Environmental Processes” will begin at 3:30 p.m. The lecture will be held in 126 DeBartolo Hall today. 
“The White Ribbon” will be shown in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The film will be shown at 6:30 
p.m. and 9:30 p.m. today. Tickets will cost $6 for adults, $5 for faculty and staff, $4 for senior citizens and $3 for students. To order tickets, call 574-631­2800. 
A children’s theatre pro­duction of “Strega Nona” will be presented at 10 a.m. and 7 p.m. tomorrow. The pro­duction will be held in the Decio Mainstage Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. To order tickets, please call, 574-631-2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

Sunday Monday 

Atlanta 50 / 29 Boston 38 / 29 Chicago 38 / 23 Denver 54 / 28 Houston 65 / 44 Los Angeles 61 / 50 Minneapolis 78 / 58 New York 41 /30 Philadelphia 41 / 39 Phoenix 74 / 52 Seattle 52 / 40 St. Louis 46 /26 Tampa 59 / 41 Washington 43 / 32 



Saint Mary’s women to take alternative trip 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Instead of taking time out to rest and relax during Spring Break, several Saint Mary’s stu­dents will be spending the week helping others. 
The College offers an Alternative Spring Break experi­ence each year designed to give students a chance to learn about social issues while participating in service. 
Carrie Call, director of the Office for Civic and Social Engagement (OCSE), said 12 stu­dents plan on attending this year. Call said 12 is both the ideal and suggested limit for attendance. 
“Students will be involved in learning about a variety of social issues, especially those related to women, while also engaging in hands-on service,” Call said. 
Alternative Spring Break is a program coordinated by OCSE in conjunction with the Indianapolis Peace Institute (IPI). Saint Mary’s alumna Kate Williams is responsible for the program this year. 
The trip will provide students an opportunity to participate in service projects while on break. 
According to the Saint Mary’s Web site, participants will have a chance to learn about a variety of issues involving women. The Web site said the 2010 Alternative Spring Break trip will focus on domestic and sexual violence against women, human trafficking, women’s health issues and women in the crimi­nal justice field. 
Additionally, the Web site said, “Local leaders, representatives from agencies within Indianapolis and clients and those affected by the issues will provide information, insight and inspiration.” 
The trip will also provide stu­dents an opportunity for spiritual reflection, the Web site said. 
“Students are always seeking new ways to help and to learn. This gives a great opportunity for both and it’s not too far away,” Call said. “The OCSE is committed to offering as many options as possible for students to discover their passions and interests. Plus, the Indianapolis Peace Institute is a fabulous organization.” 
The Web site said students will reside in a restored home owned by IPI. 
According to the Web site, “this special house allows for building community through preparing and eating meals together as well as facilitating discussion and reflection.” 
The program will run from March 6-12, the Web site said. 
“It’s a different way to spend your break time — one that helps others while enriching your own life,” Call said. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 




StudentsplanforSpringBreak 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Spring Break holds differ­ent meanings for different Notre Dame students. Some view it as an opportunity to jet off to tropical locales, while others use it to partici­pate in service projects — and some simply jump at the chance to return home for a week of relaxation after midterms. 
For senior Michelle Hackner, Spring Break is a chance to spend some quality time with her friends before the real world sends them all to different places. 
Hackner and 10 of her friends are renting two con­dos in Isla Verde, Puerto Rico for the week. She said she has been looking forward to the trip since they planned it before the beginning of win­ter break. 
“This is my last chance to really spend time with my friends before we’re all sepa­rated next year,” Hackner said. “I’m just really excited to get away from the stress of our last semester and just relax.” 
Once she arrives in Puerto Rico, Hackner said her top priorities are unpacking, finding out where the beach and bars are, and buying plenty of Pop Tarts to eat for breakfast. 
Senior Michelle Perone will join Hackner in Puerto Rico. 

She said she is also looking forward to spending time with her friends, as well as for the chance to spend time on the beach swimming and tanning. 
“I’m really excited to just lay out and tan, but the weather forecast says it’s supposed to rain a lot next week,” Perone said. “I hope it doesn’t rain. If it does, I’ll be outraged.” 
Some students are counting on a more low-key spring break than Hackner and Perone are sure to have. 
Junior George Pinchok is going home to Philadelphia after classes end tomorrow, but he plans on returning to Notre Dame early so he can take advantage of the relative quiet on campus to get a head start on his class work. 
“I’m coming back here early to have some time to myself,” Pinchok said. “I’m excited to be back early because then I’ll have moti­vation from being home and I’ll use the time wisely.” 
Freshman Patty Walsh will also be returning home for Spring Break. 
“I’m going back home to Chicago,” Walsh said. “I’m going to see some friends and get a lot of sleep. That’s basi­cally all I’ve got planned right now.” 
Sophomore James Baffa’s Spring Break will likely not be as low-key as Walsh’s or Pinchok’s. He will be travel­ing to Tennessee with the men’s crew team. 
“It’s a training trip so we’ll just go there and practice two or three times a day, every day,” Baffa said. 
Other students plan on immersing themselves in service over the weeklong break. 
Junior Katie Halloran will be participating in Notre Dame’s Appalachia Program and traveling to West Virginia to work at Community Development Outreach Ministries (CDOM) in West Virginia. 
Halloran said she has want­ed to sign up for Appalachia since freshman year, but had never gotten the chance to do so before. 
“I’ve always seen the little fliers around campus,” Halloran said. “It’s always attracted me and I’m running out of semesters so I thought I should take advantage of the opportunity.” 
Although she will not be spending her week relaxing in the tropics or at home, Halloran said she does not regret choosing a more stren­uous spring break activity. 
“Service is part of my Christian identity,” Halloran said. “I’ll have plenty of chances to go to tropical places, but after I graduate, it won’t be as easy to find service opportunities as it is at Notre Dame.” 

Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 




STUDENT SENATE 


Senate passes 4 resolutions 
Proposals accepted with nearly unanimous votes Wednesday 
By SCOTT ENGLERT 
News Writer 
The Student Senate discussed and passed four resolutions — including one that requests DeBartolo classrooms remain open at night and another chang­ing the scheduling for State of the Student Union addresses — dur­ing its meeting Wednesday night. 
The first resolution, “A Resolution Requesting DeBartolo Hall Classrooms Be Opened Nightly For Group Study Space,” was proposed by Austin Holler, chairman of the Committee on Academic Affairs. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt was among the many supporters of the resolution, which was passed unanimously. He said extra study space is an expressed need of the student body. 
“[I want] to emphasize the fact that people have been asking about this and it’s not just ran­dom,” Schmidt said. 
In a unanimous vote, the Student Senate passed the resolu­

tion. “Given that Kevin Kimberly, success we want to 
chairman of the 

encourage student 
Committee on Oversight, pro-affairs to continue 
posed an idea supporting this serv­originating from 
ice (Transpo).” 
sophomore Grace Concealman, a member of the Jeff Lakusta Financial chairman Management 
Committee on University 
Board. 

Affairs 
The proposal calls for the estab-do not allow for interest, however making it into an endowment would help to earn more money into the account. 

Schmidt said he thought the idea was “genius.” 
Senate passed the resolution with an unanimous vote. 
The next resolu­tion, “A Resolution Proposing an Amendment to the Constitution of the Undergraduate Student Body Revising the Schedule of State of the Student Union Addresses,” was also proposed by Kimberly. 
The resolution November and by the last Senate meeting of his or her term. 
Kimberly said a changing of the deadlines is needed. 
“The way it is now, there is not much to work on,” Kimberly said. 
With the exception of one abstention, the Student Senate voted unanimously to pass the resolution. 
The fourth and final resolution, “A Resolution Calling for the Retention of the Late Night Transpo Service,” was proposed by Jeff Lakusta, chairman of the Committee on University Affairs. 
Lakusta was clear in stating the purpose of the resolution. 
“Hundreds of students are rid­ing it every weekend,” Lakusta said. “Given that success we want to encourage student affairs to continue supporting this service.” 
Senate voted nearly unanimous­ly to pass this resolution as well. 
Contact Scott Englert at 
senglert@nd.edu 



STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 


SGA plans for end of this academic year 
By MEGHAN PRICE 
News Writer 

In preparation for their upcoming term as leaders of Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) beginning April 1, juniors Rachael Chesley and Laura Smith attended Wednesday’s meeting. 
Chesley and Smith were voted in as SGA president and vice president, respectively, for the 2010-11 academic year during the election Feb. 26. 
SGA has started to prepare for the end of the 2009-10 term and will meet only three more times before the newly elected officers are sworn in on April 1. 
Chesley and Smith were shadowing the current presi­dent and vice president in preparation for their terms in office. They will continue to observe until they are sworn in to office and, after elections for the other offices this week, the new class officers will also be attending the SGA meetings. 
“The year is coming to a close very quickly and our term in office is almost over,” current SGA president and senior Jenny Hoffman said. “It’s time to think of what final things you would like to accomplish for the student body.” 
Some of the suggestions made by the SGA members included vending machines in the Student Center and new vacuums in the dorms. 
Hoffman also said she and the current SGA vice president and junior, Megan Griffin, were attempting to initiate a Saint Mary’ s heritage course. 
The course would be one cred­it and would teach students about the origins and founding values of the College. 
One of the final things SGA has done for the students of Saint Mary’s College is to help fund one of the bigger events on campus — Dance Marathon. 
Kelly Deranek, Saint Mary’s senior, presented a proposal asking for funding for Dance Marathon. The event is in its fifth year at the College and raises money for the Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis. 
“The event’s goal is to cele­brate the hard work Dance Marathon has done all year to raise money for the hospital,” Deranek said. “It promotes awareness of the hospital but the Marathon night is all about fun.” 
The board members for the event have already begun fundraising, but because all the money has been donated to the hospital, they still needed funding for the event, Deranek said. 
The marathon is 12 hours of dancing with live entertain­ment and a DJ. It also includes food, games, last minute dona­tions and a counting of how much money was raised. 
Dance marathon will be held in Angela Athletic Facility from 8 p.m. March 26 to 8 a.m. March 27. The event is for Saint Mary’s, Notre Dame and Holy Cross students. Deranek said they are expecting around 550 people, which is the largest attendance the event has ever had. 
Contact Meghan Price at mprice02@saintmarys.edu 
lishment of The Shirt Charity Endowment, which will enable interest to be collected on 50 per­cent of funds collected for The Shirt Charity. The current funds calls for the State of the Student Union to be made by the student body president’s election, by the last Senate meeting of the semes­ter, by the last Senate meeting of 




Boy Scouts set to hold dinner to mark 100th anniversary 
Reunion celebrates, recognizes past accomplishments of troops, reunites local Eagle Scouts at Joyce Center 
only achieved by about 3 percent future looks bright but it’s getting ‘“We feel that his life and what ship, Bridges said. 
By CAITLYN KALSCHEUR 

of scouts. challenging to find adult leaders. he stands for will resonate with “People think of Boy Scouts as 
NewsWriter 

“We’re giving them the opportu-We need to continue to work to get the Boy Scouts and volunteers and an outdoor or recreational pro­nity to come back and celebrate,” more adult leaders and need to remind them of the Boy Scout val-gram, when really that’s just the 
The LaSalle Council, the local said Patrick Bridges, Scout connect more with places like ues,” he said. “The volunteers and vehicle through which we help chapter of the Boy Scouts Executive and CEO of LaSalle Notre Dame.” Eagle Scouts are excited to hear youth reach their full potential America, will host a special 100th Council Boy Scouts. “We’re thank-Bridges said Notre Dame was him say a few words to us.” and instill in them values and anniversary dinner and Eagle ing them for their service to others picked to host the event for two As the founder of the morals according to scouting law,” Scout reunion in the Joyce Center in scouting and for what they’ve reasons. Christopher Zorich Foundation to Bridges said. at 6:30 p.m. tonight. gone on to do. We also want to “Notre Dame has a lot of the help disadvantaged families, Bridges also encourages Notre 
Aside from recognizing the help them reconnect and get same values that scouting has: Zorich embodies the importance Dame students to get involved by accomplishment of Boy Scouts of involved in Boy Scouts again God, country and serving others,” and value of service to others, calling (800) 822-3867 or visiting America being an active, con-whether it be financially, as a he said. “Also, the guest speaker is which is a central part of Boy the Boy Scouts website at tributing organization to society leader or in any other way that Chris Zorich, so we thought that Scouts, Bridges said. www.lasallecouncilbsa.org for the last 100 years, tonight’s can fit into their lifestyle.” Notre Dame would be a good fit.” Boy Scouts has worked with “Students can even walk over to event will also serve to reunite and Bridges said the group is strug-Zorich, a former Notre Dame over 100 million boys in the last our headquarters right next door,” honor Eagle Scouts in the area. gling to find leadership. and NFL football player and phi-100 years and research indicates Bridges said. 
In boy scouting, the lifetime “Boy Scouts has changed more lanthropist, was chosen to speak that involvement in Boy Scouts honor of Eagle Scout is the highest in the last few years than it has in based on his experiences, Bridges yields positive results in such Contact Caitlyn Kalscheur at honor one can accomplish and is the last 20,” Bridges said. “The said. areas as honesty and sportsman-ckalsche@nd.edu 




World & Nation 
Thursday, March 4, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Israel calls off raid over Facebook slip 
JERUSALEM — Israel’s military has “unfriended” one of its own — after a com­bat soldier potentially updated Israel's ene­mies on Facebook. 
The military said Wednesday that a planned raid on a West Bank village was called off after the soldier disclosed its details online. The military said the soldier posted the time and location of the raid on his Facebook page, saying that troops were planning on “cleaning up” the village. 
Fellow soldiers reported the leak to mili­tary authorities, who canceled the raid, fear­ing that the information may have reached hostile groups and put troops at risk. 
The soldier was court-martialed and sen­tenced to 10 days in prison. He was also removed from his battalion and combat post­ings. 

Huge wave kills 2 on cruise ship 
BARCELONA, Spain — A 26-foot wave smashed into a cruise ship carrying nearly 2,000 people in the Mediterranean on Wednesday, smashing glass windshields and killing two passengers, according to officials and news reports. 
Another six people suffered light injuries, the Greek coast guard said in a statement. The victims were identified as a German and an Italian man. 
The ship asked for permission to dock in Barcelona and arrived at the Spanish port shortly after 9 p.m. (2200 GMT), the Spanish news agency Europa Press said. 


NATIONAL NEWS 

Air traffic workers suspended 
NEW YORK — As planes waited to take off from Kennedy Airport, the jargon-packed radio chatter between controllers and pilots was interrupted by a young boy’s voice: “JetBlue 171, cleared for takeoff.” 
An air traffic controller who brought his son to work let the youngster read a few routine messages to pilots — and then brought in another child the next day — in an incident that amused pilots but not the Federal Aviation Administration. 
Authorities suspended the controller and a supervisor Wednesday after a recording of the radio calls was posted on the Internet, then reported by a Boston television station. 

Scientists pleased with orbiter results 
PASADENA, Calif. — Scientists are impressed with the flood of data beamed back by NASA’s most advanced Mars orbiter. 
The space agency said Wednesday the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter has sent back 100 terabits of information since 2006. That’s equal to about 3 million songs in MP3 format. 
Launched from Florida in 2005, the recon­naissance orbiter reached Mars in March 2006. It is the most powerful probe ever sent to the Red Planet. 
Project scientist Rich Zurek of NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory says he is blown away by the quality of the images and other tidbits that give scientists a deeper understanding of the planet. 
Last year, the reconnaissance orbiter suf­fered several computer resets that temporar­ily halted science operations. It has since returned to normal. 


LOCAL NEWS 

Gov. names health commissioner 
INDIANAPOLIS — A retired Eli Lilly medical director and former family physician is the state’s new health commissioner. 
Gov. Mitch Daniels announced Wednesday that Dr. Gregory N. Larkin will replace current com­missioner Dr. Judy Monroe beginning April 1. 
Monroe will leave her state position March 8 to become a deputy director of the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and head a new CDC office. 
Larkin was Eli Lilly’s global medical director and health care liaison. He managed five domestic health care clinics and the company’s employee and retiree health plan during his 22-year career. 


VENEZUELA 


Chavez denies ties with rebels 
Venezuelan President lashes out at Spain’s accusations of link with ETA, FARC 
Associated Press 
CARACAS — President Hugo Chavez lashed out at Spain’s prime minister Wednesday for asking Venezuela to respond to a Spanish judge’s accusation that his government collab­orated with Basque sepa­ratists and Colombian rebels. 
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero on Monday demanded an explanation from Venezuela after Judge Eloy Velasco announced that an investigation turned up evidence Chavez’s gov­ernment facilitated collabo­ration between the Basque group ETA and Colombia’s leftist rebels — and the two groups planned to assassi­nate Colombia’s president. 
The following day, Spain’s foreign minister said that he had spoken with Chavez and Venezuela’s foreign minister and that both denied the allegations but promised an investigation. 
But on Wednesday Chavez warned that diplo­matic relations between the two countries could be hurt if Spanish officials insist on seeking answers from Venezuela. 

“We don’t have anything to explain,” Chavez said during a televised speech. ments and establish a Velasco identified sus-peace talks between Spain’s “Relations will depend on Marxist-style state. pected ETA member Arturo government and ETA rep-the Spanish government’s Velasco indicted six mem-Cubillas Fontan as a key resentatives broke down. attitude.” bers of ETA, most of them figure in links between ETA “These people came here 
Chavez denied his social-exiled in Latin America, and the FARC. The man and they became ist government maintains and seven members of the lives in Venezuela, has held Venezuelans,” Chavez said. ties with ETA or the FARC for a variety of a job in the Chavez govern-Chavez did not address Revolutionary Armed alleged crimes, including ment and may still have the judge’s allegation that Forces of Colombia, which plotting to kill former one, the judge wrote. Cubillas Fontan has worked are classified as terrorist Colombian President The probe is based large-for his administration. organizations by the Andres Pastrana and ly on e-mails that were in a Spanish Attorney Daniel European Union and the Colombia’s current presi-computer used by a FARC Portero, who closely follows United States. dent, Alvaro Uribe. leader named Raul Reyes, ETA’s activities, told The 
“This is a government Velasco said the investi-who died in a Colombian Associated Press that he that does not, and will not, gation that began in 2008 military raid on a FARC expects Spain’s judiciary to support terrorist groups,” turned up evidence of camp in Ecuador in March run into difficult obstacles Chavez said. “Venezuelan governmental 2008. as it attempts to bring 
ETA has been waging a cooperation” in the collabo-Chavez noted one of his exiled members of the violent campaign since the ration between the two predecessors as president, Basque separatist group to late 1960s to create an groups. ETA members have Carlos Andres Perez, and justice. independent Basque home-received training or taught former Spanish Prime “It’s very complicated,” land in northern Spain and in FARC rebel camps, and Minister Felipe Gonzalez Portero said, noting Spain’s southwestern France. The FARC members traveled to signed agreements in 1989 government doesn’t want to FARC has been battling Spain to try to kill Pastrana allowing several Basque spoil warm relations with since 1964 to topple suc-and Uribe, with help from separatists to take up resi-Venezuela’. cessive Colombian govern-ETA, Velasco wrote. dence in Venezuela after 



First lady tours Miss. schools to tout health 
Maggie Benson White, who was put-better food choices, serving healthier
Associated Press 

ting up a poster outside Pecan Park food in school vending machines and 
JACKSON, Miss. — First lady Elementary School to welcome Mrs. lunch lines, making healthy food more Michelle Obama visited Jackson on Obama, said she hoped that the first available and affordable, and encour-Wednesday and watched children play lady’s visit would inspire healthy eat-aging children to exercise more. on swings and a jungle gym at a ing habits in her community and at Obama said she realized it’s hard for school whose programs have been inner-city schools. some schools across the country to lauded for fighting obesity by keeping “Our children are not eating proper-make such changes immediately kids active. ly. We have a lot of parents who don’t because budgets are tight. She said 
It was the first of her two stops in know how to serve nutritious meals. If the Child Nutrition Act that is up for Mississippi, which ranks No. 1 in we could teach them to let McDonald’s reauthorization includes $10 billion childhood and adult obesity, according go, it would have a big impact,” said over 10 years to help with those to the Centers for Disease Control and White, who is president of the West issues. Prevention. Park Neighborhood Association, Later at Brinkley Middle School, she 
The first lady’s visit was part of her where Pecan Park Elementary is got a rock star reception as about recently announced Let’s Move! cam-located. 1,000 people, including hundreds of paign to promote healthy habits at The first lady’s campaign on obesity students cheered loudly when she was schools. has four parts: helping parents make announced at a rally. 

Transpo 
continued from page 1 
roughly 150 students on Fridays and Saturdays, with the only major decreases occurring on the weekends of midterms and finals. 
The high rider numbers have led to a certain amount of foot traffic at pick-up locations near the local restaurants and bars Transpo serves, Schmidt said. 
“All of the establishments on the Transpo route seem to have a heavy amount of traffic, especially during late-night hours when demand is high for a cab,” he said. 
Schmidt said the Transpo system came from a student government concern about safety of students traveling to off-campus venues. After the Jan. 17 assault of three Notre Dame students who were wait­ing for the Transpo bus, Schmidt said student govern­ment has taken additional measures to ensure the contin­ued safety of students using Transpo. 
“The day after that hap­pened, I talked to Transpo about how to address future incidents,” he said. “Student government also printed maps on cards with the Transpo route and times on it. It was one initial way to inform stu­dents of where they should be and at what time.” 
Schmidt said the incident was “extremely unfortunate” but pointed out it was the only violent altercation that has occurred in relation to Transpo. 
Ryan Brellenthin, student government chief of staff, said the incident was regrettable but overall, Transpo has been a “phenomenal” service over the past few months. 
“From the beginning, Transpo has been all about safety of students when they are off campus,” Brellenthin said. “The incident was isolat­ed and I think people would be hard-pressed to say that Transpo caused the incident.” 
As a result, student govern­ment has taken steps to ensure University students are never waiting around for the bus and thereby exposing themselves to potentially dangerous activity. 
“Overall, the bus has been extremely efficient,” Schmidt said. “The times on the route are approximate but if the bus is ever ahead of schedule, the driver waits until it gets back on schedule, so that way, the bus is never early.” 

Student body vice president Cynthia Weber said the Transpo system has not only achieved the goals student gov­ernment put forth, but has also benefited the South Bend com­munity, where relations between the University and the city have been strained at times in the past. 
“Transpo has proved to be a service to the student body. It’s both a convenient measure and a safety measure,” she said. “It’s also created bridges to the rest of the community by encouraging students to go out in South Bend.” 
Brellenthin said he thinks the success of the weekend Transpo service has alerted students to the Transpo system as a whole, which allows Notre Dame students to ride to areas like the University Park Mall free of charge. 
“It has brought a greater awareness to the Transpo sys­tem as a whole, which Notre Dame has had a relationship with for many years,” he said. “This particular route is an extension of the relationship.” 
Overall, student government is pleased with the success of Transpo. Schmidt said he thinks the initiative has been “popular” with the student body and he hopes it will con­tinue next year. 
The bus will stop running when the academic year con­cludes in May. Student body president-elect and vice presi­dent-elect, Catherine Soler and Andrew Bell, will decide whether or not the service will continue to be offered for the 2010-11 academic year. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 



Wireless 
continued from page 1 
their data and services.” 
What this explosive demand requires is innovative technol­ogy and spectrum regulation that provides more spectrum and allows service providers to squeeze more data into their spectrum allocations, Laneman said. But there are no simple solutions. 
“We can draw many analo­gies between spectrum grid­lock and rush hour traffic. Providing more spectrum is like adding another lane to a major highway,” Laneman said. “If we add another lane, traffic will flow more freely. But a lot of people will com­plain if the wider highway infringes on their land or adds additional noise to their neighborhood.” 
Laneman said a balance must be found. 
“Such cooperation can be difficult to realize when every­one acts in what they perceive to be their own best interests rather than working toward a collective goal,” Laneman said. 
Viewing such challenges as opportunities, the College of Engineering recently announced the launch of the Wireless Institute at the University of Notre Dame, which according to its Web site is “an internationally pre­eminent center of research, education, technology transfer and outreach activities that develops wireless communica­tion and networking technolo­gies, applications and eco­nomic and policy studies of great value to society.” 
Laneman will serve as direc­tor of the Institute, along with Christian Poellabauer, assis­tant professor of computer science and engineering, and Barry Keating and Jesse H. Jones, professors of finance. 
“We are proud that Notre Dame is able to help us launch this initiative amid the eco­nomic difficulties experienced by many universities,” Laneman said. “The faculty are really excited, and we’re working on getting the stu­dents excited, too.” 

The first focal point laid out on the institute’s Web site is to develop technologies that unlock and make better use of spectrum. And while techno­logical research and innova­tion are key components of the institute’s goals, it puts equal stress on taking a multi­disciplinary approach to the issues so that students from 
a l l  a rea s  of  s t u d y  c a n  get  
involved, Laneman said.  
Laneman and Keating  are  

offering an undergraduate seminar course this semester to expose a broader set of stu­dents to the relevant issues. 
“Students can just read the newspaper to realize that there’s so much more going on here than technology research and development,” Laneman said. “There are significant economic, legal, security and public policy issues. At a more basic level, there’s the ques­tion of what’s best for society when it comes to allocating spectrum for universal broad­band access, public safety and national security along with commercial wireless services. As a values-based community with an emphasis on research, Notre Dame is an ideal place for new initiatives in this space.” 
Contact Lily Hough at lhough1@nd.edu 


The Observer 





Business

Thursday, March 4, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 



IN BRIEF 

Tropicana Casino purchase approved 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. — New Jersey on Wednesday ended its conservatorship of Tropicana Casino and Resort after 27 months and gave final approval of its sale to billionaire Carl Icahn. 
The state Casino Control Commission also gave Icahn interim casino authorization, allowing his company to take over operations. He bought it out of bankruptcy last year for $200 million. 
The approval gives Icahn a stronger grip on a quickly expanding empire of casinos he’s bought relatively cheap out of bankruptcy. 
In January, he received regulatory approval to take control of nine Tropicana Entertainment LLC casinos in Nevada, Indiana, Louisiana and Mississippi as they emerged from a separate bankruptcy. 
He’s reorganizing them into a publicly traded company and plans to put them eventually under the same umbrella as the Atlantic City landmark. 
This year, he also bought the unfinished Fontainebleau Las Vegas casino resort on the strip. On top of all that, last December, he bought the first-lien debt in Trump Entertainment Resort’s three Atlantic City casinos. Now, he and banker Andy Beal are slugging it out against a group that includes Donald Trump to become the owners when that company emerges from bank­ruptcy. 

RealNetworks to end sales of DVD copier 
SAN FRANCISCO — RealNetworks Inc. has settled lawsuits with six movie studios that sought to stop it from selling technology that let consumers copy DVDs to their computers. 
Under the settlement terms, which were announced Wednesday, RealNetworks can’t sell its RealDVD product or other similar tech­nology, the company said. 
Walt Disney Co., Sony Corp. and others sued RealNetworks in 2008, arguing RealDVD is an illegal pirating tool that would stop consumers from buying movies on DVD that they could cheaply rent, copy and return. 
RealNetworks will also withdraw an appeal it filed after a judge barred the company from selling RealDVD in August. 
The company will pay $4.5 million to the studios for litigation costs and refund purchas­es of about 2,700 customers who bought the product. 



DriverssayToyotafixesdon’twork 
15 customers complain that cars still speeding by themselves following repairs 
Associated Press  
DETROIT — At least 15  
Toyota drivers have com­ 
plained to U.S. safety officials  
that their cars sped up by  
themselves even after being  
fixed under recalls for sticky  
gas pedals or floor mat prob­ 
lems, according to an  
Associated Press analysis.  
The development raises  
questions about whether  
Toyota’s repairs will bring an  
end to the cases of wild,  
uncontrolled acceleration or  
if there may be electronic  
causes behind the com­ 
plaints that have dogged the  
automaker.  
Although the allegations  
were unverified by the  
agency, the National  
Highway Traffic Safety  
Administration said  
Wednesday it was contacting  
people who have complained  
about acceleration problems  
even after repairs were done  
under two large recalls. The  
agency wants to hear from  
others who have had similar  
troubles, it said.  
“If Toyota owners are still  
experiencing sudden accel­ 
eration incidents after taking  
their cars to the dealership,  
we want to know about it,”  
agency administrator David AP  
Strickland said in a state-Stewart Stogel of Mt. Vernon, N.Y., speaks about the problems with his 2009 Toyota  
ment. Camry while sitting in a parking lot in New Rochelle, N.Y., Wednesday.  
The new complaints raised  
eyebrows in Congress, which  check into the complaints, he  drivers who say the fix has  engage at all,” said the 49­ 
has held three hearings on  said.  not solved the problem,  year-old freelance journalist.  
the recalls in the past week  Toyota has recalled more  including at least 15 filed  “Just as I approached  
and is investigating Toyota’s  than 8 million vehicles  with NHTSA in the last two  Terrace Avenue, the wheels  
safety problems.  worldwide since October to  weeks, according to an AP  were able to get some trac­ 
“I am deeply concerned  fix floor mats that can snag  analysis of the agency data­ tion, and all of the sudden  
that NHTSA has received  gas pedals or faulty gas  base.  the engine did disengage.”  
this many reports of possible  pedal assemblies that can  The owner of a 2009  Stogel said the car had  
sudden unanticipated accel­ stick.  Camry, Stewart Stogel, of  accelerated two previous  
eration even after these  NHTSA says 52 people  Mount Vernon, N.Y., told the  times before the recall fix,  
vehicles have received  have been killed in crashes  AP he narrowly missed driv­ and both times he took it to  
Toyota’s recommended fix,”  linked to Toyota’s accelera­ ing over an embankment  dealerships to be checked. In  
said Rep. Bruce Braley, D­ tion problems. Toyota has  and hitting a wall when the  one case it was inspected by  
Iowa, who serves on one of  blamed mechanical causes  mid-size sedan accelerated  a Toyota corporate techni­ 
the committees investigating  or drivers pressing the  on its own last Saturday —  cian who could find nothing  
Toyota.  wrong pedal. However, some  five days after being serviced  wrong, he said.  
“It’s critical that we get to  question whether the elec­ as part of the recall.  After the latest incident,  
the bottom of this problem  tronic throttle system or a  Stogel, who has not filed a  Stogel called his dealer, who  
as quickly as possible.”  software glitch may be at  complaint with NHTSA, said  told him to return with the  
Toyota spokesman Brian  fault, rather than a mechani­ the incident occurred near  car so Toyota engineers  
Lyons said Wednesday the  cal issue involving pedals.  his home after a dealership  could inspect it. He did so on  
company was investigating  Toyota says it is looking into  trimmed the gas pedal and  Wednesday and was given a  
the complaints, though it  electronics as a possible  installed new brake control  loaner car. He also left a  
remains confident in its  cause.  software as part of the floor  message with Toyota Motor  
recall fixes. Teams of engi- In the meantime, com- mat recall.  Sales U.S.A. President Jim  
neers are being mobilized to  plaints keep coming in from  “At first the brakes didn’t  Lentz.  


Bob Lutz, GM’s ‘ultimate car guy,’ to retire 
Associated Press retire at the end of 2009, but crosstown rival Chrysler Group LLC changed his mind after then-CEO to success in the 1990s and spent 
DETROIT — Bob Lutz, the long-Fritz Henderson asked him to lead time at Ford Motor Co. and time auto industry executive who led the GM’s marketing efforts as the Germany’s BMW AG. He rejoined GM nearly a complete overhaul of company exited bankruptcy protec-in 2001. General Motors’ lineup, will retire tion. At the Detroit auto show in May 1. But Henderson was ousted from January, Lutz said he supported 
“My work here is done,” the 78-the company in December. His suc-opening more factories to produce year-old executive said in an e-mail cessor, Ed Whitacre, took away Lutz’s hot-selling products. That was how to The Associated Press from the marketing duties and made him a Chrysler gained market share in the Geneva Motor Show on Wednesday. “special adviser” — an ambiguous 1990s, he said. But GM executives 
Lutz, GM’s vice chairman and a for-position that left him with no one ruled that possibility out earlier this mer U.S. Marine aviator who once reporting to him. Whitacre said he week. crashed his personal helicopter at a wanted Lutz to help him learn the Still, Lutz said Wednesday he Michigan airport, has been responsi-ropes at GM. would be leaving GM happy with the ble for overhauling design at GM and Long a fan of flashy race cars, Lutz way the company was running. has held senior positions at three has called the Chevrolet Volt, the “The whole organization, top to other automakers during his career. gas-electric sedan that can go up to bottom, now has absolute product 
However, Lutz’s role at GM dimin-40 miles on battery-power alone, his superiority as the highest objective ished during his last year with the proudest achievement. which enables all others,” he said in automaker. He originally planned to Lutz is also credited with leading an e-mail. “So, I can retire in peace.” 

ND MBA students take first in casecontest 

Special to The Observer 
A team of MBA students from the University of Notre Dame took first place in the Ninth Annual Leeds Net Impact Case Competition. The two-day event, held Feb. 19 and 20 at the University of Colorado, brought together the top-rated business schools and future industry leaders. The competition is the premier case format competi­tion built around businesses facing sustainability challenges. 
The Notre Dame team includ­ed Rachel Reiter, Jeff O’Connor, William O’Brien and Jonathan Phillips, all one-year MBA stu­dents graduating in May. 
The University of Alabama Manderson Graduate School of Business took second place while the University of Alberta School of Business took third. 
Sixty-one MBA teams from 39 business schools entered the Leeds event. The case involved analyzing opportunities in renewable energy; more specifi­cally, how to address issues of profitability for Xcel in the areas of increasing renewable energy and energy conserva­tion. 
Round one of the competition involved submitting a PowerPoint presentation in early December. Twenty teams then advanced to the February semifinal in Boulder, with five teams competing in the final event. The top three teams earned cash prizes, with Notre Dame taking home $6,000. 
Xcel Energy, a Minneapolis-based public utility with more than $9 billion in annual rev­enues and customers in eight states, sponsored the competi­tion. 
Participants of the competi­tion are affiliated with Net Impact, an international MBA nonprofit association committed to creating a community of business leaders who advance practices of corporate social responsibility, social entrepre­neurship, nonprofit manage­ment, international develop­ment and environmental sus­tainability. 
The Notre Dame MBA at the Mendoza College of Business enrolls approximately 340 stu­dents annually in its one-year and two-year programs. The program is designed to sharpen students’ analytical and prob­lem-solving skills, enhance their leadership ability and increase emphasis on ethical decision making. Students have the opportunity to study the com­plexities of global business through international immer­sions in Asia, Latin America and other locations. 
RA 
continued from page 1 
“I tend to think people who apply get the picture that Christian community is worth building and fostering,” Doyle said. 
During the decision-making process, Doyle said he and his current hall staff cast nine rounds of ballots. 
“In between ballots, there are a lot of conversations,” Doyle said. “We took about four or five hours to get to the nine.” 
Sr. Mary Donnelly, rector of Pangborn Hall, notified her RA candidates of her deci­sions via email last Wednesday. 
RAs have a variety of roles, Donnelly said. 
“We look at RAs and all of hall staff as a ministry of presence,” she said. “The RAs in particular are role models, they’re disciplinarians, they’re leaders in their sec­tion, and they have the responsibility of helping to shepherd and helping the freshmen find their way.” 
Emily Wurtenberger, one of five Pangborn RAs for next year, hopes to promote respect among residents. 
“It’s the little things like talking too loudly out in the halls when its study days,” Wurtenberger said. “No. 2, we’ve never had a dorm trip to the zoo and I really would like to do that.” 

Fr. Peter McCormick, rector of Keough Hall, strived to bring together a diverse range of students for his RA team. 
“When you build an RA staff, you look to build a team,” McCormick said. “If I were to use a basketball anal­ogy, you wouldn’t just have all point guards or just all cen­ters, but you have a variety of different personalities that will work together well.” 
McCormick said he looks forward to working with stu­dents he met during his first year as Keough’s rector. 
“The biggest way that they’ve changed is certainly in maturity like all people [that] grow and develop but also in their love and appreciation for Notre Dame and Keough Hall,” McCormick said. “I think if you were to ask all of them, they would say that their greatest desire to be an RA is to give back to a com­munity that has given so much to them.” 
The Office of Residence Life and Housing will inform all RA applicants of their status on March 15. 


Contact Katlyn Smith at ksmith33@nd.edu 






Fired R.I. teachers will back reforms 
Associated Press 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. — A dis­trict superintendent who fired all the teachers from one of the state’s most troubled schools said Wednesday she’s willing to negotiate with its teachers’ union after it publicly pledged to support reforms. 
Central Falls Superintendent Frances Gallo said an offer made late Tuesday by the Central Falls Teachers’ Union gives her hope the issue could be resolved without mass fir­ings. The offer includes support for a longer school day and pro­viding before-and after-school tutoring for students. 
The Central Falls school board voted last week to fire 93 teachers and staff from the city’s high school after the end of the school year. No more than half the staff could be hired back under federal rules. 
Gallo said she wanted the union to start participating in talks aimed at improving the school that also include other parties, such as parents. She said if the plans conflict with language in the teachers’ con­tracts, the union and school offi­cials could then negotiate. 
The teachers’ union president, Jane Sessums, said she was cautiously optimistic both sides could talk. Her union is appeal­ing the firings to the school dis­trict’s board of trustees and has filed a complaint with the state Labor Relations Board, saying the firings are unfair. 

“We have from the very begin­ning said that as long as we’re back at the table, that’s where we want to be,” Sessums said. 
State Department of Elementary and Secondary Education Commissioner Deborah Gist earlier ordered Gallo to choose from one of four reform options, including mass firings, to improve the high school. Only 7 percent of 11th­


Charges dropped against Calif. police officers 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE, California — Four police officers who were present during the violent videotaped arrest of an unarmed Vietnamese college student will not face criminal charges, prose­cutors said Wednesday. 
Santa Clara County District Attorney Dolores Carr said there was insufficient evidence to prosecute the officers on charges they used excessive force when trying to arrest Phuong Ho, a student at California State University, San Jose. Ho is from Ho Chi Minh City. 

The Sept. 3 arrest has angered the San Jose’s large Vietnamese-American community, which was already upset over the fatal police shooting of a mentally ill Vietnamese man in May. 
The incident began when police received an emergency call that a man was out of con­trol and waving a knife at his roommate. Carr said when offi­cers arrived at the home, Ho was uncooperative and unwill­ing to follow orders, and when officers tried to restrain Ho, he twisted away. 
Carr noted that Ho’s actions may have been a result of mis­communication with the officers about whether they had permis­sion to go into his room. 
“Nevertheless, at that point, the situation changed from an investigation by police of a man who had threatened violence against his roommates to an increasingly unsuccessful attempt by police to gain control over a physically resistant sub­ject,” Carr said. 
She said one officer used a “control hold” to get Ho to the ground but he repeatedly refused to comply with orders to turn over to be handcuffed. 
“Force was used intermittently for the purpose of gaining his compliance,” Carr said. 
Much of the incident was caught on cell phone video taken by one of Ho’s roommates. The grainy recording shows one of the officers striking Ho repeated­ly with a baton and another offi­cer using a stun gun to try to subdue him. Two other officers are at the scene later to try to help handcuff Ho, but did not use weapons. 



Four social workers face fraud charges 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Four social workers were convicted Wednesday of fraud for submit­ting phony paperwork for visits they never made to a disabled teenage girl who weighed only 42 pounds and was covered in maggot-infested sores when she was found dead in her home. 
A federal jury in Philadelphia convicted the employees of now-defunct MultiEthnic Behavioral Health Inc. of defrauding the city of millions of dollars by not visiting the family of Danieal Kelly, 14, and other needy households, then creating paperwork that claimed they did. 
Kelly, who had cerebral palsy, weighed less than half her expected weight when she was found dead in 2006, an expert witness for the prosecu­tion testified. 
Company co-founders Mickal Kamuvaka, 60, and Solomon Manamela, 52, and former caseworkers Julius Juma Murray, 52, and Miriam Coulebaly, 41, were all convict­ed of conspiracy, lying to feder­al agents and multiple counts of health care fraud and wire fraud. 
“Danieal Kelly paid the ulti­mate price for these defen­dants’ fraud, and we hope that this is some measure of justice for her and the other children who were the victims, really, of this fraud,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Bea Witzleben said. 
Kamuvaka still faces trial on a state charge of involuntary manslaughter in Kelly’s death. Murray, the caseworker assigned to the family, also faces an involuntary manslaughter trial and is being held pending trial this month on federal immigration charges. 
Defense attorneys for Kamuvaka and Manamela argued that they were victims of “renegade” employees. Kamuvaka’s attorney, William Cannon, said his client was “very disappointed” by the ver­dict. Manamela’s attorney, Paul 
J. Hetznecker, acknowledged “significant” mismanagement but said his client was dedicat­ed to social work. 
Manamela, whose attorney argued that it was possible for his client to have made the required visits to Kelly’s home but still to have missed evi­dence of her condition, declined to comment. Coulibaly, who had no direct role in the Kelly case, also declined to comment on the verdict. 
Kelly’s mother, Andrea, is serving 20 to 40 years in prison after pleading guilty to third-degree murder. 
The four are scheduled for sentencing in June. Prosecutors said sentencing guidelines indi­cate Kamuvaka could be sen­tenced to about nine to 11 years or more in prison, while Manamela could get a term of eight to 10 years. Coulibaly could face about six or seven years and Murray four or five years in prison, prosecutors said. 
graders tested this fall were proficient in math, while 33 per­cent of the high school students tested proficient this fall in writ­ing and just 55 percent were proficient in reading. Less than half of students graduate from Central Falls in four years, state statistics show. 
Gist earlier said the process is not a negotiation, but she also indicated that Gallo could approach her with another plan. 
“I’m pleased that the teachers have reached out and that Dr. Gallo is going to work with them in the planning process,” Gist said in a written statement. “Our focus is on how we can ensure that the children of Central Falls receive an excel­lent education, and that is always going to be improved when all of the adults are work­ing together.” 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 

page 10 Thursday, March 4, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 

Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES 
Not one word of “The Ballad of Billy the Kid” is true. 
He was born not in Wheeling, W. Va., but rather in the Irish heart of New York City. He neither started with a bank in Colorado nor robbed his way 
from Utah to Dan Sportiello Oklahoma — for he was a ranch 
Bound 
hand and some-
Variables 
time horse rustler, not a bank robber. And he was never ordered to be strung up by a judge for what he had done, as the law shot him in the chest in the dark. 
He may never have travelled heavy, but he did not ride alone: he was a member of the Regulators, a deputized posse who aimed to avenge the murder of their employer, New Mexican rancher John Tunstall. And while he soon put many older guns to shame, he did in fact have a sweetheart — Paulita Maxwell, who may well have served as the unwilling bait for his ambush by Sheriff Pat Garrett. In the end, the ballad is wrong even about the home he finally found: his Boot Hill grave bears the name “William H. Bonney” — the alias that would, in time, grow to mean more than “Henry McCarty” ever did. 
“Every verse in this song is a lie,” admits Billy Joel. “You have to imagine it’s a Western movie, with the credits rolling across the screen: ‘Randolph Scott. Lee Van Cleef. Clint Eastwood.’” It is not a novel thing, of course, for a musician to alter — or invent — the details of his pro­tagonist’s life for romantic effect: Rossini’s William Tell and Lennon’s Bungalow Bill come immediately to mind. But the Kid’s life — his real life — was already wildly romantic by any reasonable standard. What is revealing, therefore, is the form that Joel’s invention takes: out of nothing, he weaves the story of a colossal anti­hero, a boy driven to rage against the gods of his world and, in his defiance unto death, become at last a man. It is the 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the 




EDITORIAL CARTOON 

University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY’S STAFF News Sports QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Ashley Charnley Laura Myers Alicia Smith Michael Blasco Sam Stryker Matthew Robison 
Graphics Scene 
“In love, one and one are one.” 

Andrea Archer Nick Anderson 

Viewpoint 
Jean-Paul Sartre 
Lauren 
French author & philosopher 
Brauweiler 



Antiheroism 
story of one who struggles against all odds to become what each of us has it within himself to be — if only we could, like him, cast off the chains of law and order. 
There is an element of the ridiculous in 
all of this, of course: it is only possible to 
identify with Billy as we do because the 
story that Joel has woven is maximally 
generic — an archetypal bank robber 
robbing archetypal banks and fighting 
archetypal lawmen. But it is worth asking 
why it is this particular archetype that 
inspires us: his fictional Kid is an outlaw 
who steals from the banks to whom ordi­
nary men and women have trusted their 
money — and when their elected officers 
of the law do their duty and try to stop 
him, he shoots them dead. He is a thief 
and a murderer, differentiated from other 
thieves and murderers only by the magni­
tude of his crimes. 
And yet, when that posse finally cap­
tured Billy, the cowboy and the rancher 
came pouring in like the sea to watch him 
die — in awe of his contempt for the 
world they had built. And their reaction is 
not foreign to us: when the judge at last 
orders Billy hung by the neck until dead, I 
can feel only outrage at the injustice of it 
— and when he is buried in his Boot Hill grave, only sorrow. 
It is no great insight to suggest that 
each of us sees himself in this Kid — that 
each of us feels Billy’s death as his own. 
The same is true, I think, of Billy’s even­
tual rebirth in Oyster Bay, Long Island: 
the boy with a six-pack in his hand is 
every one of us, most of all Joel himself — 
his protests to the contrary irrelevant. 
“By the way, ‘Billy’ in this case is not me, 
myself and I,” he insists. “He still tends 
bar in Oyster Bay.” Which is, of course, 
the first real lie in all of this. 
It is no mystery that each of us sees himself in the Kid — and, for that matter, in any of the great American antiheroes: these men are the real heirs to our ideals 
— to the land of the free and the home of the brave. Our nation was born in the spirit of Billy the Kid — in our revolt against King and Country, in our theft of his property and our murder of his offi­cers of the law. It is better to die, we pro­claimed, than to live unfree. 

And yet, it turned out that to defend our freedoms, it was necessary to sacrifice them, one by one. This has been increas­ingly obvious ever since our Civil War, even if it has never been an easy thing to admit to ourselves: the power of govern­ment, corporation, and union over us grows without apparent limit. The liber­tarians claim that this loss of freedom is, in fact, due to a vast conspiracy — that it was done without our knowledge or con­sent. Which is, of course, the second real lie in all of this: we gave up our freedoms willingly, even eagerly, as did the citizens of an earlier Roman Republic. The hard truth is that men, then and now, are cow­ards — that they will always sacrifice their freedoms, one after another, for security. That modernity — whether in the Empire of the Romans or in our own 
— will always, in the end, collapse under its own weight. 
I do not say this with censure: what is a man’s freedom, after all, next to his wife and children and home? I do not know that he is wrong to sacrifice the former to protect the latter. But I can appreciate the tragedy of it — and so can all of us, I think, deep down. This is why we glorify our antiheroes: they have the courage to be what we do not — free. And this free­dom is a dream from which we are anx­ious not to wake: it is who we are — or, at any rate, who we desperately want to be. In this sense, “The Ballad of Billy the Kid” is true after all. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his second year of the Ph.D. program in philosophy. Listen to his radio show on WVFI every Sunday at 4 p.m. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“All of us tend to put off living. We are all dreaming of some magicalrose garden over the horizon — instead of enjoying the roses thatare blooming outside our windowstoday.” 
Dale CarnegieAmerican writer & lecturer 
The Observer 





Viewpoint 

Thursday, March 4, 2010 page 11 
Carry your prayer with you wherever you go 
Listen up, all of you who are packing your suitcases for wherever you’re going next week … or maybe wherever you’re going later today! Oops, did you forget to put your Bible in there? OK, let’s think about this. You’re headed out on 
Kate Barrett 
Spring Break, which probably means a) a sweet FaithPoint vacation; b) an inspiring service trip; or c) time at home with the family. No matter what your week’s agenda holds, here’s a suggestion to make it even better. Treat yourself to a few minutes of prayer each day. Really. 
So let’s say that a few weeks ago you decided to give up a favorite indulgence for Lent, like chocolate, pizza, beer or watching “Chuck” on TV. You may have even specified to yourself, “No desserts … except on Spring Break,” or “No caramel lattes … except during break week.” If you’re cutting yourself a little slack on the sacrifices this week, why not try adding a new luxury? Try even just a few moments a day of quiet prayer. After all, the season 
A visit to ND is always bittersweet for alumni, but this week I experienced a return to campus both more sorrowful and more glorious than usual as we laid to rest my former teacher, mentor and friend Timothy P. Dr. Gail Walton. Green 
The funeral Mass on Tuesday was a 

Guest Column 
testament to Gail’s legacy — the packed pews resounded with the voices of hundreds in attendance. I have never heard the Basilica echo so loudly with such fervent singing of the psalms, hymns, and chants of the liturgy. 
The Observer has recently featured testi­mony from Brian MacMichael and Laura Hoffman — and a beautifully-written arti­cle on the funeral by Sarah Mervosh — all of which show Gail’s lasting influence upon this school and her students. 
There is one group of students who deserve special commendation for their courage and poise — the members of the Liturgical Choir, under assistant director Andrew McShane, who led the sorrowful congregation in prayer and song as we said goodbye to our friend. Their performance was outstanding and beautiful — not mere­ly in technical proficiency, but in the deep emotions which could be heard and felt behind every note. 
It was one of the bravest things I have ever seen. Imagine the football team sched­uled to play shortly after their coach died 
— and then going on to play one of the strongest, most perfect games you’ve ever of Lent did not develop in the Church as “40 Days in Which Christians Give up Stuff They Like to Make Themselves Miserable.” We’re supposed to use this time to grow closer to God; to seek the ways in which we can prepare our hearts, growing more open to God’s love, to renew the promises of our baptism. Is a Lent without your favorite snacks doing that for you? In all likelihood, you’ll have a little more time on your hands than usual dur­ing this Spring Break week. Even if you didn’t even specifically think “prayer” back when you established your Plan for Lent 2010, now’s your chance. Add a little extra prayer every day over break, and who knows? It might stick. 
Bring something, a little something, with you wherever you go next week. Whether you’re headed off on a service project, out to a sunny beach, or home to hang out with family and friends, we all need a little time for private prayer. Even if you are on an organized service trip that includes Mass or other prayers, have you found some way to pray each day, just for you yourself alone? 
Back to putting that Bible in your suit­case. If yours is big and heavy, like mine; or if you have reason to believe that your Bible may face hazardous conditions while traveling (those airline luggage guys THROW your bags, you know); or if you’re headed someplace with lots of sand and water, you may want to consider some other options. Do you still have the Notre Dame prayer book you received as a freshman? Bring that. Or you can pick up free “Little Black Books” of daily prayer for Lent at CoMo. “Living with Christ,” another free option from Campus Ministry, contains all the Scripture readings for daily and Sunday Mass as well as a variety of other prayers and articles. Both of these, as well as other no-cost Lent resources available at CoMo, have the advantage of extreme portability, and quite frankly, none of them is of heirloom quality, so you won’t mind so much having to mash it into your bag. 
Are you bringing your laptop, Blackberry or iPhone with you this week? You can even access prayer websites if you’ll have an internet connection. Try ndprayercast.org or pray.nd.edu for two options that will keep you from feeling 

Gail’s legacy 
seen. That’s what it was like to hear the choir sing so well amid their evident sor­row. 
There has been much talk lately of the state of the religious identity of Notre Dame. Gail was one of its unsung archi­tects; the music she and her choirs made for so many masses and occasions each year were among the many invisible sup­ports helping to hold together the school’s Catholic character. 
Speaking with fellow choir alums this week, several mentioned they have found it hard to explain what it was like to sing with the Liturgical Choir under Gail and why it has had such a lasting influence on our lives. Perhaps if you’ve ever been on a sports team with a great coach who truly demanded the best of his players but also earned their complete trust; or if you’ve been in one of those classes where the teacher challenged you every day but also made you want to do your best; or if you’ve lived in a dorm at ND where the rector was tough on you but always had your back — then you might know something of the same feeling. 
As Notre Dame’s greatest teachers have always done, Gail taught her choir students to strive for excellence in a humble, Christian spirit. Their task is not to perform for themselves, but to serve God and others 
— to make the liturgy an experience that helps people to pray. They work long hours to make beautiful music, all for the greater glory of God and in service to their neigh­bors. In her own quiet but strong faith Gail taught her students to love this work as a ministry, and to embrace the beauty of the Church’s liturgy, and learn of its rich tradi­tion of sacred music. 
There’s a classic film by the great Spanish surrealist director Luis Buñuel in which the main characters are continually attempting to sit down for dinner, but are never able to eat it, and the meal always remains untouched. A satire of bourgeois manners and social veneers, the film and the plight of its characters reminds me of my own life as a young Catholic who really only skimmed the surface of his faith for much of my life. My time with the choir opened up an entire new world — the rich banquet of the Catholic traditions of liturgy and sacred music — and propelled me into a deeper journey into the devotional and intellectual richness of the faith, which I had left untouched for too long. 
I end with an entreaty to the entire Notre Dame community, and especially to the stu­dents. The richness of the Church’s great tradition of worship and music is all around you at Notre Dame. Come and experience it, and support all the great choirs and everyone on campus who works so hard, even in times of mourning, to bring a bit of the beauty and goodness they have experienced to others. 
Hop out of bed just a bit earlier on Sunday to get to the 10 a.m. Mass and hear the choir sing. Or, in the evening, stop by the Basilica to encounter God in the still­ness of the meditative evening service of Vespers. There’s no better way to calm down and prepare for the demands of the coming week than to pray and sing in a homesick while you’re away from the Dome. Other good sites include sacred­space.ie or the “3-minute retreat” at loy­olapress.com. For a quick daily suggestion that you can even receive via email, check out bustedhalo.com and click on their really cool Lent calendar called Fast Pray Give. 

No matter which you choose, pick some kind of prayer you’ll use, make any book you bring portable enough that it won’t end up on your bed or desk instead of in your suitcase when you’re fighting to get the zipper closed, and then do it. Spend a few minutes listening and conversing with God, reading and praying with His words; enter those websites into your wireless device; find a quiet spot and enjoy a week of days that might just help transform your journey to Easter joy. 
This week’s FaithPoint was written by Kate Barrett, director of the Emmaus program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
candlelit chapel on a quiet Sunday evening. 
Better still: make plans to stay on campus for Holy Week at least once during your time at Notre Dame to experience the great liturgies of the Easter Triduum: Holy Thursday, Good Friday and the glorious Easter Vigil on Holy Saturday. It is the high point of the liturgical year and the culmina­tion of many hours of extra rehearsals. People come from all over to hear the spe­cial music sung only for this occasion. I once met a seminarian from Rome at the evening service of Tenebrae on Holy Thursday. He told me, “They don’t even do it this well at St. Peter’s.” 
Gail Walton was a vessel of God’s grace to all who knew her. Come and experience the fruits of her labor in the fine group of young people singing in the choir — in them the richness of the Church’s liturgy and the living tradition of transcendent music are preserved and celebrated. It doesn’t matter if you’re Catholic or non-Catholic, religious or non-religious. The human heart knows beauty. 
Come and see — a rich banquet has been prepared. This courageous group of stu­dents will show you the best of what Notre Dame is all about. And they will help you to pray, as their director always taught them to do. 
Timothy Green is a Notre Dame gradu­ate of the Class of 1998 and the ACE Class of 2000. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Power and the ‘R’ word 
It wasn’t long ago that saying something sucks would garner disapproving looks and perhaps a stern talking-to. Despite the fact that “sucks” refers to what many would con­sider a deviant sex act, it has become a com­mon part of our vocabulary. It’s widespread usage in our vernacular has rendered the word largely inoffensive and powerless. 
Etymologically, the word “retarded” is syn­onymous with “hindered,” “delayed” or “underdeveloped.” Thus, when people say, “Parietals are retarded,” they are, in effect, stating that the rationale behind said policy is underdeveloped. This is a perfectly legiti­mate usage of the word (and arguably an accurate assessment of the situation). 
When a word becomes taboo, it only becomes more powerful. To remove the power of the word, one must remove its stig­ma. If we embrace the word and use it where it is etymologically appropriate, it will cease to offend, and its stigma will disappear. As such, I hereby pledge to step up my efforts to remove the power of the “R” word by using it as often as I can. Because why would we want to give a word we don’t like more power? That just strikes me as an underde­veloped line of reasoning. I’d even call it retarded. 
Pete Reimers 
staff Hesburgh Libraries Mar. 3 


The Observer 







Scene

page 12 Thursday, March 4, 2010 

By BRANDY CERNE 
Scene Writer 
For those students not traveling to a warm beach or exotic location for Spring Break — yes, some people actu­ally go, gasp, home — the highlight of break may just be the 82nd Academy Awards. Airing on ABC at 8 p.m. on March 7, this year’s show promises all the glamour, glitz, and prestige of before, but also a new sense of fun and levity. This is thanks to producers Adam Shankman (“Hairspray” director, “So You Think You Can Dance” judge) and Bill Mechanic (chairman and CEO, Pandemonium Films), who vow to lighten up the show that sometimes takes itself too seriously. 
Co-hosts Steve Martin and Alex Baldwin should also assure some quality comedy at the Oscars this year. Both will bring a comfort­able stage presence: Martin has previous experience hosting the Academy Awards, and Baldwin is always a hit when he hosts “Saturday Night Live” — which he has done 14 times. The potential for the comedic interactions between the two hosts is one of the biggest reasons to tune into the awards show. 
But let’s get to the most important part of the Oscars (well, to some peo­ple): the awards. Most of the winners should be quite obvious, as they have been picking up every award in sight for the past few months. This is espe­cially apparent in the Supporting Actor and Supporting Actress categories. 
Christoph Waltz (“Inglorious Basterds”) will rightfully win for his turn as a cunning Nazi who spoke an impressive four languages in the film. For Supporting Actress, comedienne 
Mo’Nique is a shoo-in for her portrayal 
of an abusive mother in “Precious.” What adds to the impressiveness of her performance is that before this role, Mo’Nique was mostly 
known as the host of several trashy reality shows. 
The Best Actor award will likely go to Jeff Bridges 


(“Crazy The Academy Awards Director, it even further Heart”) as the establishes his claim 
on Sunday are a must-
Academy will that he is “King of the 
see for any film-lover
want to honor World.” If Bigelow wins, a respected or pop-culture addict it would be the first Best 
actor who has never won, despite being nominated five times. 
So, why tune in if all the win­ners have basically already been chosen? 
Well, there is still debate about who will take home the Best Actress prize. It is a tight race between Sandra Bullock (“The Blind Side”) and Meryl Streep (“Julie and Julia”). Both actresses have managed to stand out in films that received only so-so reviews (despite “The Blind Side’s” Oscar nomination for Best 
Picture). Bullock stretched her 
acting chops by taking on a role much differ­ent than her usual romantic -comedy leads, which many voters will want to reward her for. On the other hand, Streep disappeared into her portrayal of legendary chef Julia Child, and she just so happens to be the most-nominated actor in Academy Award history. 

Another close call is for Best Picture and Best Director, between “Avatar” and “The Hurt Locker,” and their respective directors, James Cameron and Kathryn Bigelow. One is a little-seen but much-acclaimed film about a bomb disposal unit in Iraq, and the other — well, let’s just say basically 
everyone has seen it. 
If Cameron wins Best 
Director win for a 

female, which is a huge accomplishment. Adding to the stakes is the fact that Cameron and Bigelow actually used to be married. 
If awards and competition aren’t really your thing, then watch for the endless amounts of Hollywood A-list sightings. Steve Carell, Tina Fey, Sacha Baron Cohen, Kristen Stewart and Miley Cyrus have all been scheduled to present, even if some of them do not deserve to be anywhere near an awards show celebrating acting ability (I’m talking to you, Stewart and Cyrus). Past winners are also sure to walk the red carpet in beautiful couture gowns. 
The Academy Awards on Sunday are a must-see for any film-lover or pop-culture addict. Unless you are lying on the beach in Florida, of course, and then you are totally excused. 
Contact Brandy Cerne at bcerne1@nd.edu 


By NICK ANDERSON 
Assistant Scene Editor 

One of the fall back defenses to being unpopular is the tale of the misunderstood genius. Luminaries such as El Greco, F. Scott Fitzgerald and Alfred Wegener were widely unappreciated before their respec­tive deaths but are well-respected today. While it’s a great, if fantastical, comfort for those struggling to make it, the simple fact 
remains most still life. 

With that in mind, after months of specu­lation, it was announced yesterday that Comedy Central’s “Michael and Michael Have Issues” was canceled. The short-lived series was the latest vehicle for the perpet­ually comedic minds of Michael Ian Black and Michael Showalter. It is also the latest piece of theirs canceled before its third sea­son. 
Both comedians cut their teeth in their mid-20s on the MTV show “The State.” Back when MTV was still playing music videos, “The State” was the best sketch comedy on the air, bridging the gap between Saturday Night Live’s fall from grace and HBO’s equally uproarious “Mr. Show.” Never truly appreciated in its time, “The State” found a cult following and, 15 years later, a long-awaited DVD release. Rumors of a full-length film have been persistent, but so far unfounded. Many of the show’s alumni have gone on to successful Hollywood or standup careers, including Robert Ben Garant, Thomas Lennon and Ken Marino. None are exactly household names, but most are recognizable character actors. Black and Showalter ended up in the same situation as their costars. 
Following “The State,” both Showalter and Black went on to star in their most successful enterprise to date, the 2001 movie “Wet Hot American Summer.” The movie again found a cult audience — noticing a theme? The smart meta-commentary on 1980s teen comedies was directed by David Wain, a frequent collaborator with the Michaels. Again, it was a classic example of a film being critically acclaimed but ignored at the box office. 
Four years later, Black, Showalter and Wain, with the support of Comedy Central, embarked on a promising partnership. Comedy Central, still search­ing for success in the vein of Chappelle’s Show, was air­ing pilots from any promis­ing comedians they could find. From this caviler dis­semination of money sprung the creative pinnacle of Black, Showalter and Wain’s career: “Stella.” It was a mag­nifi­


cent mixture of satire, wit, absurdity and dumb humor, often featuring famous guest stars and fake mustaches. The show lasted one short, 10-episode season but inspired a sold-out nationwide tour. Perhaps most insultingly, “Mind of Mencia” replaced the show. 
Showalter and Black left television for a while but returned last year, again on Comedy Central. Their show, “Michael and Michael Have Issues,” was a hybrid sketch show and sitcom about its two title charac­ters, both loosely based on their own per­sonalities, trying to make a sketch show. (They say write what you know.) 
The duo lost some of its sensibility with Wain’s departure, and the show dragged at times, but its glimpses of comedic gold showed promise. Seven episodes in, Comedy Central halted production, finally canceling the show months later. A DVD release with strong sales is expected, but not strong enough to ultimately bring the show back. 
While consistently funny, Black and Showalter have a remarkable record of turning out failed products. Make no mis­take, both make excessively comfortable livings, but it’s hard to not feel bad for two intelligent comedians putting out excellent material only to see it canceled, especially in a world where “Two and a Half Men” is the top-rated comedy on TV. So please, whatever their next efforts, be it on stage, screen, or TV, buy a ticket or tune in and support the Michaels. 
Contact Nick Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 
The Observer 




Scene

Thursday, March 4, 2010 page 13 

being called a masterpiece. 

By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 
2. “Antichrist” 

1. “The White Ribbon” Costars Charlotte Gainsbourg and 
Michael Haneke (“Cache,” “The Piano Willem Dafoe give their entire selves Teacher”) creates a simple tale chroni-and then some unto director Lars von cling the strange atrocities committed Trier’s bare-as-bones, uncompromis­in a seemingly quaint, innocent ingly bleak view of human nature. The German town before self-proclaimed “best World War I. A trip into director in the world” the heart of darkness, One of the most admitted to having suf­“White Ribbon” is an fered from chronic 
intriguing character
inquiry into a certain depression during the 
and cultural studies
kind of evil bred by a filming of the movie, society left stagnant by ever made, “White and the film undoubt­its own strict moral code edly benefits from it, as 
Ribbon” succeeds for 
and Protestant teachings it crosses into rare ter­
its insight into a sociey
— the same society that ritory of being truly no less than two decades and culture where affecting art. Art that later would commit facades bottle up the at once will horrify his atrocities that would kill audience, abandon it, 
inescapable human
millions of people. One but ultimately, attest to of the most intriguing capacity for evil. the true visceral power character and cultural of film and its ability to studies ever made, not only unnerve but “White Ribbon” succeeds for its insight leave permanent scars. into a society and culture where facades bottle up the inescapable 3. “Inglorious Basterds” human capacity for evil, only to The most fun I had at the movies this unleash it in the worst of ways. This is year, Quentin Tarantino’s history-bend­the year’s best film and the first since ing, tongue-in-cheek World War II flick “There Will Be Blood” deserving of about a band of bloodthirsty Jewish Americans known only as “The flexing, full-throttle portrayal of a spe-Basterds” is pitch-perfect. It loses some cial unit of bomb disarming soldiers in of its gusto towards its harrowing end, Iraq, “The Hurt Locker” stands as a and it often borders on offensive, but king among men in the small but Tarantino and his cast — led by sure-growing group of Iraqi War films. fire Oscar winner What’s different Christopher Waltz and a here is that the brilliant Brad Pitt — movie is neither 
“The Hurt Locker” is a 
“might just make this his action-driven, nor masterpiece.” Or, since beautiful marriage of a overly story driven, we’re speaking about and it avoids the 
bare bones portrayal of
Tarantino, just another thus far unsuccess­
human nature when the
masterpiece to put on ful pitfall of trying to his ever-growing mantel. line between life and pass itself off as a 
psychological analy­

death is so thin and 
4. “Up in the Air” sis of soldiers in the 
momentary. 
What makes “Up in the heat of the current Air” a deserving candi-war. Instead, “The date for Best Picture is Hurt Locker” is a not only George beautiful marriage Clooney’s unassumingly great perform-of a bare bones portrayal of human ance or Jason Reitman’s “breath of nature when the line between life and fresh air” directing, but also the fact death is so thin and momentary, and a that the movie turns out to be some-classic tension-ridden portrayal of the thing that we don’t expect it to be. It’s heat of combat. truly a movie for this time. A moving story made for all of us as we move Films that just missed the cut: “The through the recession, and in many Prophet,” “Goodbye Solo,” “A Serious ways, life itself. Man,” “Hunger,” “The Cove” 
5. “The Hurt Locker” Contact Shane Steinberg at Director Kathryn Bigelow’s muscle-ssteinb2@nd.edu 



By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writer 
“It’s a story for every guy who has ever tried, for every girl who has ever hoped, and anyone who has ever been taken completely by surprise.” 
The “it” is “Ten Things I Hate About You,” the witty comedy that served as the breakout hit for young stars Heath Ledger (“Brokeback Mountain”) and Julia Stiles (“The Bourne Ultimatum”) and launched them into stardom. 
The hilarious movie is a modern day adaptation of Shakespeare’s classic play, “Twelfth Night.” It is the story of Kat (Stiles) and Bianca Stratford, sisters who could not be more different and who live with their excessively over­protective father. His house rule: Bianca can’t date until Kat does. Bianca, the pretty, pop­ular younger sister, has multiple guys knocking at her door, while Kat, the feminist anti-conformist, scares them all away with her acerbic tongue. 
What follows is undoubtedly a solid 90-minute chick flick, but not a for­mulaic, overly cheesy one. The script is clever and quick, seamlessly intertwining lines from Shakespeare with modern jokes and references. It takes an old story and proves with its modern application that The Bard and his themes are timeless. 
The actors help advance the movie without allowing it to sink into the mindless stereotypes generally found in teen comedies. Although the cast was relatively unknown in 1999 at the movie’s release, they brought their characters to life and helped launch their own careers. Such stars include Ledger, Stiles, Joseph Gordon-Levitt (“(500) Days of Summer”), David Krumholtz (“Numb3rs”), and Larry Miller 
(“Kiss Kiss Bang Bang”). Stiles plays her 
character flaw­lessly. She nails the feminazi, driv­en personality of Kat, all the while making her escapades as a drunk girl and her growing affection for Patrick Verona (Ledger) believable, not just the creation of a director trying to use clichés to appeal to a teenage audi­ence. Shining in her role, Stiles is a breath of fresh air among the usual teenage 
heroine who flip-flops and generally ends up abandon­ing her princi­ples for the boy. 
Verona is the resident bad boy of Padua High School, around whom rumors abound because of his dark clothing and mysterious accent. Ledger sparkles in his role and is the best part of the movie, from his superb acting to his brilliant smile. He por­trays his mysterious yet soft personali­ty perfectly. 

The character of Patrick is multi­faceted. A senior in high school, he fre­quents a local bar to play pool and drink beer, but he also hands out advice on love, telling Cameron (Gordon-Levitt), “don’t let anyone, ever, make you feel like you don’t deserve what you want.” 
The movie allows Ledger to display his true acting skills. He illustrates that he can play a variety of roles and complex characters. His bad boy per­sona as Patrick captivates the interests of his female audience, while his boyish good looks and adorable smile melt their hearts. Even as Patrick accepts money to pursue and date Kat, it is impossible not to fall for him because Ledger allows every aspect of Patrick’s personality to shine through. It also does not hurt that movie showcases Ledger wearing leather pants and later singing in a beautifully romantic scene. 
This zippy comedy is one of the best chick flicks out there, pleasing to both males and females. It is appropriate for any occasion, from a pick-me-up film to a quiet Saturday night in, and it never grows old, especially now that a 10th anniversary edition is available with extra behind-the-scenes footage. Also, it is a fitting remembrance of Ledger in his youth, just over two years and one month after his sudden and untimely death. 
Just be sure not to confuse this movie with the TV show on ABC Family bear­ing the same name and very loosely based off the movie. It is a poor substi­tute, though Larry Miller still shines in his hilarious role as the overbearing father. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at mdonne5@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 

MLB 

Upton signs six-year deal to stay with Arizona 
Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz. — Justin Upton has lived with high expectations virtually since the day he picked up a baseball bat. 
Now at 22, with two full major league seasons already behind him, he says he wel­comes the challenge of living up to the $51.25 million, six-year contract he signed on Wednesday with the Arizona Diamondbacks, the second-largest deal in franchise history. 
With his parents Manny and Yvonne looking on proudly at a news conference, the outfielder said he understands the respon­sibility that comes with this big a contract at such a young age. 
“I do kind of put that pressure on myself,” he said. “I want to be great, that’s the thing. If you want to be great, then you set your goals higher.” 
Upton earned his first All-Star berth last season, when he hit .300 with 26 homers and 86 RBIs. 
His statistics are compared favorably with those of some of the game’s greats at the same age. His OPS (on-base percent­age plus slugging percentage) of .836 compares with the early numbers of Al Kaline, Mickey Mantle, Ted Williams, Ken Griffey Jr. and Alex Rodriguez. 
“There’s a lot to live up to,” he said, “and I think I’m ready for that.” 
He gets a $1.25 million sign­ing bonus, half on April 15 and the rest on July 15. He receives salaries of $500,000 this year, $4.25 million in 2011, $6.75 million in 2012, $9.75 million in 2013, $14.25 million in 2014 and $14.5 million in 2015. 
“We view him as a core play­er, one of our key pieces,” gen­eral manager Josh Byrnes said, “and as we view the next six years the kind of guy we want to build around.” 
The only bigger contract in Diamondbacks’ history was the $52.4 million, four-year deal Randy Johnson signed in 1999. 
“This is something you dream about. For it to come true, it really hasn’t sunk in yet,” Upton said. “My parents have definite­ly been a special part of my life to get me to this point. It’s defi­nitely a special day. I’m glad they could be here. I know they’re as happy as I am.” 
Upton has had the pressure of high expectations for years, fol­lowing the path of his older brother B.J., who was the No. 2 draft pick overall in 2002. Justin was one better, chosen No. 1 by Arizona in the 2005 draft. 
He played less than two years in the minors before being called up by the Diamondbacks one in 2007 one month shy of his 20th birthday. 
Manager A.J. Hinch was newly hired director of player personnel when Upton first was signed in January 2006. 
“We know him very well. We have a great relationship. To be able to have him as a center­piece of our organization is a great advantage,” Hinch said. “He’s already had productive seasons and he’s still got a lot of room to grow, which is exciting to see and also scary for the National League.” 
While he has a quick, even picturesque, swing, his form in the outfield is a work in progress. Upton had played only eight games in right field in the minors before being installed there at the major league level in 2007. 

Byrnes compared his outfield issues with “a young Vlad Guerrero,” with the speed and talent to get to balls but not necessarily the finesse that comes from learning the posi­tion well. 
Byrnes said that teams in markets like Arizona’s have to make a move to keep their young talent as long as possi­ble. 
“We generally need to go early to deal with free agency, and we’ve done that in a num­ber of cases,” Byrnes said. “Their might be more risk because you’re going early and you’re going longer, but I think the reward justifies those types of moves.” 
The general manager noted that Brandon Webb would not be under contract and Dan Haren would be entering his final year had the team not signed them early. Webb is in the final year of his contract. 
However, sometimes contracts can backfire. Outfielder Chris Young’s performance at the plate was dismal in the wake of the $28 million, five-year con­tract he signed in 2008, although he did improve after a stint with Triple-A Reno last season. 
Upton said he considered going year by year in arbitra­tion and eventual free agency before choosing security. 
“They made a comfortable deal with the years. That’s something that definitely fac­tored in,” he said. “I was com­fortable with their proposal and the direction that they’re going.” 
Upton’s father said he didn’t sleep to well the past few nights knowing the agreement was close. Plainly proud of both sons, he said he has to work on Justin not being so hard on himself during times of adversi­ty. 
“Sometimes I have to be the sounding board to make sure he’s not beating himself up,” Manny Upton said. 
Justin Upton said he hasn’t been sleeping too well lately, either. 
“But now that it’s over with everyone’s happy,” he said. “That’s all that matters.” 
NFL 

Broncos extend qualifying offers to Dumervil, Marshall 
Associated Press  wa s angry wi th the tea m’s medical staff for misdiagnos­ r e a c h agency.  u nr e str i c t e d  f r e e  
ENGLEWOOD, Colo.  — The  ing a hip injury that required  Late last season, Orton said  
D e n ver  B ro n co s  a re  d o i n g  surgery, and he wasn’t happy  it was a shame that players in  
everything they  can  to keep  with his undervalued contract.  his situation would have to  
Pro Bowl pass rusher Elvis  A fourth-round draft pick in  wait  to cash in  on  the free  
Dumervil in blue and orange.  2 0 06,  M a rs ha l l  a rg ued  h e  agent market because of the  
Brandon Marshall, not  so  should be compensated like  uncapped year that’s coming  
much.  other elite wide receivers.  in 2010, the result of a break- 
On Wednesday, the Broncos  He  s e t  a n  N F L rec o rd b y  down in the collective bar- 
sl appe d  a  fi r st-and third-catching 21 passes for 200  gaining agreement between  
round tender  on  Dumervil,  yards and two touchdowns in  players and owners.  
who led the league in sacks  a loss to Indianapolis, but just  “It’s a bad thing for the 275  
la st  s e a so n .  O t her  t e a ms  a  few weeks later he showed  players that  are  in that posi­ 
would have to surrender those  up 20 minutes late for treat­ tion with me,” Orton said  on  
two  l e vels  of  pi ck s  i n  th e  ment  on  a  pulled hamstring  Dec. 30. “ F r e e a g e n c y ha s  
upcoming draft if they signed  and was benched for the sea- always been something for the  
the restricted free agent who  son finale.  players. It’s always been  a  
stands to make $3.168 million  Q u ar t e rb ack  K y l e  O r t o n  great thing. If you get  one  
next season with the Broncos.  ($2.261 million) and guard  crack at free agency as a play- 
Marshall, who began and  Kris Kuper ($2.521 million)  er, that’s what you dream of.”  
ended last  season  in coach  also received first-round ten- A l o n g  w i t h  M ar sh a ll,  
Josh McDaniels’ dog house  der offers, and tight end Tony  Scheffler was benched for the  
bu t  i n  b e t w e e n  po s ted  h i s  Scheffler ($1.759 million) was  season  finale against Kansas AP  
third straight 100-catch  sea- given a second-round tender.  City, for his attitude. Broncos receiver Brandon Marshall, right, attempts to break out of  
son, received  a  first-round  All five players would have  After the Broncos lost their a tackle in the Pro Bowl on Jan. 31.  
qu a l i fy i ng  o f fer  — w hi ch  been unrestricted free agents  last game, finishing 8-8 again  
would make it easier to facili­ if the owners hadn’t opted out  af t e r  a  6 -2  st ar t  u n d e r  Scheffler was among several  32 teams.”  
tate a trade.  of the collective bargaining  McDaniels, Scheffler sounded  holdover starters who  were  O n  We d nes d a y,  g e ner a l  
Marshall would get  a  14.7  agreement with the players in  as though he’d played his last  drafted by Mike Shanahan but  manager Brian Xanders said  
percent raise next  season  to  2008. Among the ramifica-game for the Broncos.  who  saw  their roles greatly  the five players “are high- 
$2.521 million if he’s still in  tions for the upcoming season  “If they want to go in a dif­ reduced under McDaniels.  quality football players, and  
Denver.  are no salary cap or floor and  ferent direction, you kind of  “That’s something you’ve got  we look forward to their con- 
The source of his discontent  players have to have six years  s ta rt  wit h thi s gam e and I  to deal with,” Scheffler said in  tributions during the 2010  
last  summer  was  twofold: he  of service instead of four to  wasn’t involved in it,” he said.  January. “That’s why there’s  season and beyond.”  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

room & board, and experience of For rent: Furnished 4 bedroom UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do WANTED: 3 hot studs to escort 3 lifetime provided. house 5 blocks from campus. Off not go it alone. Notre Dame has stunning srs to ryan dome dance 3­WANTED Download application: www.bay-FOR RENT street parking, security system, cen-many resources in place to assist 19-10. 
cliff.org tral air. Nice. Only $350.00 a month you. have the charm moves & tolerance SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: For more information call or email: Faculty/grad students. each. Call 574-289-4071. If you or someone you love needs to keep up? Make a difference in the life of a (906) 345-9314/email baycliff@bay-2 bdrm, 2.5 bath, LR, DR, FR, ———————————————— confidential support or assistance, we want your bad romance. child! Summer therapy camp for cliff.org Florida room, utility room. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 contact mpb_87@hotmail.com children with physical disabilities. ———————————————— 2-car attached garage. Security sys-or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more ———————————————— Located on shore of Lake Superior tem. information, visit ND's web site: So long, faithful readers! My years
PERSONAL 

in Big Bay, MI. Positions available Available now. 262-332-0015. http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu of toiling in obscurity are through. I’d for Counselors, Waterfront, Shown by appt. ———————————————— like to leave all of you with a thought
TICKETS
Instructors for Nature/Arts &amp; 1616 E. Colfax. If you or someone you care about that has motivated me throughout Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, has been sexually assaulted, we 2 AKC registered English Bull dogs my life — Therapists, Food Service, and ———————————————— can help. for free. Remember, you are born in this Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, Need Strega Nona tix. PLEASE For more information, If interested please contact: d.harri-world only knowing how to **** and 
responsible, and love children. CALL! gradrentals.viewwork.com visit Notre Dame's website: son120@gmail.com complain. Never feel like you cannot June 13 through August 8. Salary, http.csap.nd.edu do something. MAB. ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— 


Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 

Thursday, March 4, 2010 
page 15 

NCAA Men’s Baseball USA Today Coaches’ Poll 
team previous 
1 LSU 2 2 Virginia 4 3 Florida State 5 4 Arizona State 8 5 Texas 1 6 Florida 9 7 Georgia Tech 10 8 TCU 12 9 Clemson 15 10 Coastal Carolina 19 11 Miami (Fla.) 13 12 North Carolina 11 13 Louisville 20 14 Cal. State Fullerton 3 15 Oregon State 14 16 UC Irvine 7 17 Arkansas 16 18 UCLA NR 19 Mississippi 17 20 Rice 6 21 East Carolina 18 22 Oklahoma 22 23 South Carolina NR 24 Stanford 25 25 Ohio State 21 
NCAA Men’s Basketball USA Today Coaches’ Poll 
team  previous  
1  Syracuse  4  
2  Kansas  1  
3  Kentucky  2  
4  Duke  5  
5  Kansas State  6  
6  Purdue  3  
7  Ohio State  9  
8  West Virginia  7  
9  Villanova  8  
10  New Mexico  12  
11  Butler  10  
12  Michigan State  14  
13  Tennessee  17  
14  Gonzaga  15  
15  BYU  11  
16  Temple  18  
17  Wisconsin  19  
18  Pittsburgh  16  
19  Vanderbilt  20  
20  Georgetown  13  
21  UTEP  25  
22  Baylor  NR  
23  Maryland  NR  
24  Texas A&M  23  
25  Texas  21  



around the dial 
NCAA Men’s Basketball 
Penn State at Michigan State 7 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 

Penguins at Rangers 7 p.m., Versus 
NBA 


Chinese ask about Yao’s baby plans 
Associated Press 
BEIJING — Chinese bas­ketball fans want to know 
— will Yao Ming’s baby be an American? 
The Houston Rockets center, who is sidelined this season with a broken left foot, recently returned to the United States with wife Ye Li. That prompted speculation among his fol­lowers that the baby girl due this summer could be born in America. 
Yao’s personal life is closely followed by his many fans at home, from his 2007 Shanghai wed­ding to the former basket­ball player to reports last month the couple is expecting a baby girl in July. 
Yao said before the Rockets’ game on Wednesday night that where the baby is born is a “private” matter. 
“We just need some space,” he said. “It’s just between me and my wife.” 
He said he appreciated the positive feedback shown by his fans. 
“We’re excited about a new member of the fami­ly,” he said. “We appreci­ate everyone who has given us good wishes. I really want to say thanks for that. It’s a good thing for us.” 
Yao’s baby would be an American citizen if born in the U.S. She also could claim Chinese citizenship as the child of Chinese nationals. However, Chinese law does not rec­ognize dual citizenship. 

A few say it would be a betrayal of China, not to mention the Chinese bas­ketball team could be denied a future basketball star. But most say they support Yao and don’t care which country claims the baby. 
“Yao Ming is an individ­ual, not a political tool,” said one comment on pop­ular basketball Web site Hoop China. “He has the right to choose where his child is born and what kinds of medical care and education will be available to her. His child’s citizen­ship has nothing to do with loyalty.” 
“Only an idiot would pass up American citizenship,” said another fan on online portal sina.com, under­scoring the common belief in China that life overseas is preferable. 
Yao and his camp have been tightlipped on the pregnancy and have not issued any public state­ments on the matter. It was not clear if Yao and his wife were indeed plan­ning to have the baby in the U.S. or how they would handle any citizenship issues. 
A number of Chinese celebrities have been criti­cized for becoming natu­ralized citizens of other countries. 
IN BRIEF 
Beasley unsure of his World Cup status 
AMSTERDAM — DaMarcus Beasley says more than a solid performance in the American attack Wednesday is needed for him to earn a spot on the 
U.S. World Cup roster. 
Beasley entered in the 34th minute of a 2-1 loss to the Netherlands after Stuart Holden injured a shin. Beasley’s long free kick was headed in by U.S. captain Carlos Bocanegra for the American goal in the 88th minute. 
“It feels good to be back,” Beasley said after his first match with the national team since his blunder led to a Brazilian goal in the Confederations Cup last June 18. “I need more games, and then I will try make things difficult for the coach.” 
After scoring twice in five games in December for Glasgow Rangers, Beasley was sidelined for two months with a thigh injury. The first match back for the 27-year-old midfielder was Feb. 14. 
Giants ’ Tim Lincecum struggles in debut 
PEORIA, Ariz. — Tim Lincecum has struggled in his spring debut for the San Francisco Giants, allowing three runs in one inning 
of  an  8-7, 10-inning victory  over  
t h e  S e a t t l e  M a r i n e r s  o n  
Wednesday.  

The two-time Cy Young Award winner was expected to throw two innings. He worked only the 29­pitch first and gave up two run-scoring hits. 
The Giants went up 3-0 in the top of the first. In the bottom half, Ichiro Suzuki reached on an error by first baseman Aubrey Huff. Lincecum then walked successive hitters before Ken Griffey Jr. hit a sacrifice fly to right. 
Jose Lopez and Casey Kotchman followed with run-scoring singles to right to tie it. 
Conor Gillaspie hit a base-loaded single to left in the 10th. 

Ponikarovsky misses game because of visa 
PITTSBURGH — Newly acquired forward Alex Ponikarovsky won’t play for the Pittsburgh Penguins against the Rangers in New York on Thursday night because he lacks a 
U.S. work visa. 
Because Ponikarovsky became a Canadian citizen while playing for the Toronto Maple Leafs, the process for obtaining the work visa should take only a couple of days. A native of the Ukraine, he could play for Pittsburgh during Saturday’s home game against Dallas. 
The visa is required when a citizen of another country accepts employ­ment in the United States. 
The Penguins acquired Ponikarovsky from the Maple Leafs on Tuesday night for prospect Luca Caputi and defenseman Martin Skoula, who was subsequently traded to New Jersey for a fifth-round draft pick. 
MLB 

New glove design to protect hands 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Omir Santos tried on his new batting gloves, said to slow the impact of a harmful fastball down to the mere annoyance of a junkball, and voiced excitement. 
“I think it’s going to help,” the New York Mets catcher said. “It sounds like it’s going to work.” 
The latest high-tech protective product in a sport that’s slow to accept innovation, the batting gloves are manufactured by the startup company XProTeX, which hired former All-Star Reggie Smith to go around spring training trying to per­suade big leaguers to switch. 
Bob Watson, Major League Baseball’s vice president of on-field operations, said his depart­ment already has given its approval, which is necessary for all on-field gear. 
“We looked at the data. No, I didn’t put it on and take a fast­ball,” said Watson, a former All-Star himself. “Now, is this going to stop all major injuries? That I can’t tell you, but according to the data, it should cut down on broken bones and severe injuries coming from pitched balls.” 
XProTeX was formed by X Bats president Jack Kasarjian, whose company is known for supplying maple bats to major leaguers and — at about $100 each — to youth ballplayers. After consulting the former president of the motocross equipment company SixSixOne, Kasarjian developed an impact-absorbing material called Advanced Impact Composite. 
The model that was taken to spring training is the 14th gen­eration. 
“Essentially it will reduce the impact by over 60 percent, so a 100 mph fastball will be reduced to that of a 39 mph fastball, which is the difference between in a cast and being a little bit sore,” he said. “It’s really an area where players are very vul­nerable. Their hands are their most important tool in baseball. If your hands are injured, you can’t hold the ball, catch a ball, hold a bat, hit a ball.” 
Tampa Bay manager Joe Maddon examined the gloves this week and thought back to Sept. 7, when Rays slugger Carlos Pena was hit by a CC Sabathia pitch, breaking two fin­gers and ending his season. Pena had an AL-leading 39 homers at the time along with 100 RBIs. 
“Carlos would have hit 45 home runs last year if that glove actually works,” Maddon said. “Most of the time, changes like that move at a glacier pace. Guys don’t want to be the first one to try it. Somebody’s going to try it and going to get hit and they’re not going to break their hand or wrist, and all of a sud­den everybody’s going to want it. Or conversely, if somebody’s not wearing it, and they do get hit and get broken, he’s going to want it.” 
Protection does come at a price. 
A quick check online shows batting glove prices for previous models run from about $5-$50. 
XProTex’s top-of-the line Raykr retails for $80. It is made specifically for right-handed or left-handed batters, and has AIC protection on the outside of the hand and wrist, and the inner wrist. A step down is the $50 Hammr, which has less protec­tion, and then there is the $35 Dinger, a symmetric model that protects the wrist only. There also are pads for catcher’s mitts and baserunners (to prevent their fingers from being hyper-extended). 
Smith says players have responded positively when he shows them the equipment. 
“It’s exceeded our expecta­tions,” he said. “It’s the differ­ence of being injured or being a little sore so they get to stay on the field.” 
But even if the gloves fit, that doesn’t necessarily mean players wear them. 
Kasarjian says the large equipment corporations are obstacles. 
“The agents have been steer­ing players toward these bigger companies because the compa­nies are offering the players who are up and coming in the agents’ stables deals in return for deliv­ering the major leaguers,” he said. “We’re kind of bucking the culture, but we’re getting peo­ple’s attention really quickly. Everybody is now seeing one or two players on their team and they’re asking for them.” 
Rawlings S100 helmet, touted as being able to withstand pitch­es up to 100 mph, is mandatory in the minor leaguers starting this year. The Mets’ David Wright tried it for two games when he returned from the dis­abled list after getting beaned by a 94 mph Matt Cain fastball, then decided it was too bulky and went back to his regular helmet. 
PGA 

Nicklaus: Tiger will play Masters 
got 

“As it relates to him 
won four times in his career. things in hitting balls at 
“I suspect he’ll play some-order.” playing golf, my Isleworth on thing before Augusta,” Earlier this guess is as a golfer Feb. 18. One Nicklaus said behind the 18th year, Nicklaus day later, he 
he’s going to want to 
green at PGA National, where said 2010 ended nearly the Honda Classic opens on would be “a try to play Augusta if three months of Thursday. “Your guess is as big year” for he’s got his other silence by good as mine. I’d be very sur-Woods if he speaking to a
things in order.” 
prised if he doesn’t play wanted to get small group of something before Augusta.” closer to associates, a
Jack Nicklaus
Nicklaus has been reluctant N i c k l a u s ’ statement that 
former PGA golfer 
to comment much about record of 18 got worldwide round he played with Dan Marino, Drew Brees and sax­ophonist Kenny G. (For what it’s worth, Nicklaus said he broke 80, after closing birdie-birdie.) 
Then the questions turned to Woods. “I didn’t think I was going to have anything else,” Nicklaus said. Woods was photographed 
Associated Press 
PALM BEACH GARDENS, Fla. — Jack Nicklaus is going to appear at next month’s Masters. He thinks Tiger Woods will as well. 
Nicklaus said Wednesday that “it would surprise me” if Woods did not return to com­petitive golf in time for the Masters, a tournament the embattled world No. 1 has didn’t,” Nicklaus said. “I can’t imagine in 100 years he’s going to miss this. None of you guys do either. But I don’t know. I don’t know. I’ve been very noncommittal about any­thing as it’s not my business. But as it relates to him play­ing golf, my guess is as a golfer he’s going to want to try to play Augusta if he’s 

his other 
Woods since the saga involv­ing revelations of infidelity began late last year, saying more than once that someone else’s private life isn’t any of his business. He reiterated that belief again Wednesday after finishing his Pro-Am round at the South Florida course he redesigned. 
A person with knowledge of Woods’ schedule told The Associated Press on Tuesday that Woods returned to his home near Orlando, Fla. over the weekend after a week of family counseling and resumed practicing for the first time in nearly four months. 
Like many, Nicklaus seemed to take that as a sign that Woods could be back sooner than later. The Masters begins April 8. 
“It would surprise me if he major champi­onships. Three of this year’s majors will be on courses where Woods has been dominant before, Augusta National, Pebble Beach and St. Andrews. 

Of Woods’ 14 majors, half have come on those three courses. Woods has never missed a Masters or a U.S. Open since 1995. 
Nicklaus is going back to the Masters, a tournament he won six times, as an honorary starter this year. He agreed to take on the role last year, and will join Arnold Palmer for the opening shot of the tour­nament. In time, he expects Gary Player to join them. 
The honorary start is some­thing Nicklaus never saw as a player, and he spent several minutes Wednesday talking about that after finishing the attention. 
“I do plan to return to golf one day, I just don’t know when that day will be,” Woods said on Feb. 19. “I don’t rule out that it will be this year.” 
Nicklaus was asked if Woods’ presence would make the Champions Dinner, a pre-Masters tradition, different than normal. 
The only man with more major championships than Woods didn’t hesitate to answer. 
“No. It’s the Champions Dinner,” Nicklaus said. “His personal life is his personal life. As a golfer, he’s a sensa­tional golfer. He’s a great ath­lete. He’ll figure out his own problems. But as a golfer, he’ll come back and get his game in shape and play. That’s what he does.” 


MLB 

Royals face tough choice at 2B 
Associated Press 
SURPRISE, Ariz. — A dilem­ma as old as baseball is facing the offensively starved, defen­sively challenged Kansas City Royals. 
Should offense be sacrificed for improved defense? 
The question mark for the Royals is at second base, where Albert Callaspo in 155 games had a whopping 17 errors last season, tying for the major league lead among second basemen. His fielding percentage of .973 was the absolute worst. Some of his miscues — such as letting routine grounders skip under his glove into center field — were comical. 
But the laughter stopped when Callaspo put down his glove and picked up his bat. Adding valuable heft to an offense burdened with one of the worst on-base percent­ages in the majors, he hit .300 and supplied plenty of pop. His 41 doubles, 11 home runs and 73 RBIs were second only to first baseman Billy Butler for the team’s best power numbers. 
But, oh, that defense. With Butler still learning the nuances of first base and shortstop Yuniesky Betancourt also subject to turning a routine play into high drama, tightening up the infield defense has been one of Kansas City’s top goals. 
Enter Chris Getz, picked up by the Royals in a trade after hitting .261 last year with the Chicago White Sox. Without doubt, the slick-fielding Getz brings hope for better defense: In 107 games last year, he committed only seven errors and made some out­standing plays. 

Getz has clearly been given the inside track at second, though Callaspo is determined to keep his job. He lost no time reminding everybody what he brings to the party, belting a home run in the first intrasquad game of the spring. 
Manager Trey Hillman insists he has several options. Besides second, Callaspo might also see some time at third. But second is his best position. Sorting out what to do with Getz, Callaspo and outfielder/DH Jose Guillen could be key to Kansas City making any significant improvement from last year’s last-place tie in the AL Central. 
“Alberto had a great year last year offensively,” said Getz, who also has speed on his resume. “He’s working hard. I’ve just got to go out there and perform. I can’t worry about what he’s doing or approach anything differ­ently. Just play it the way I’ve always played. Just execute the little things, play good defense, handle the bat, run the bases, and hopefully at the end of the day they’ll want me at the position.” 
Another obvious option is moving Callaspo to designated hitter. But that might not be easy because Guillen, a career outfielder, was put there this spring when the Royals revamped their outfield. 
Callaspo has no intentions of giving up anything without a fight, especially his job a sec­ond. 
“I’m just going to try to do whatever they want. I’m going to be healthy and do every­thing they need from me,” he said. “Let’s see where they’re going to use me.” 
What has Hillman told him? 
“He hasn’t told me nothing,” Callaspo said. 
Does he think he’ll get a fair shot? 
“We’ll see. We’ll see who’s going to start,” he said. “I’m going to try.” 
In the end, it might be Guillen who should worry. His status as a power hitter who is guaranteed $12 million in the third year of a $36 million contract will no doubt but­tress his argument to be the full-time DH. 
But it may not be the final argument. 
“If we just go on recent his­tory, his bat needs to be in the lineup. He was our second-most productive guy last year,” Hillman said. “Alberto really doesn’t have much pref­erence of what position he plays. We’ve got him priori­tized at second, at third and possibly at DH. We’ll see where it goes. We’ll get his bat in there.” 
While Callaspo’s options are varied, Getz knows exactly what he has to do. 
“Be a steady, solid infielder, make the plays that I’m sup­posed to make every single time, be very consistent on the double plays,” he said. “You never want as an infield­er to focus on making the spectacular plays. That stuff just happens. The plays you’re supposed to make, you’ve got to make. 
“That way, pitchers like having you out there and the manager likes having you out there.” 


NBA 

Arenas shrugs off sentencing nerves 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — As he has done many times in the month of March, Gilbert Arenas took off his shirt in a building full of adoring fans. 
This time, though, he was simply changing into a T-shirt with the PETA logo, not removing his Washington Wizards jersey to toss into the crowd on the way to the locker room after a game. 
Suspended by the NBA for the rest of the season for bringing guns to the locker room, he was giving away used fur coats to women in need on behalf of one of the few groups still proud to be associated with him: People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. 
“I have a lot of free time on my hands,” Arenas said when one of the organizers thanked him for coming. 
After the coats were handed out, Gilbert spoke to The Associated Press, his first interview since pleading guilty to a felony gun possession charge in January. Appearances such as these are helping pass the time until the next big date on his calendar: March 26, when he’ll learn whether he’ll go to jail for his crime. 
Asked if he was nervous, Arenas shrugged. 
“If the judge goes off with the story the papers write, then, yeah,” Arenas said. “But if he goes off the actual real story, then I have no problems with it.” 
Arenas has maintained that he had four guns in the Wizards locker room and took them out in a “misguided effort to play a joke” on team­mate Javaris Crittenton, who then displayed a firearm of his own and has since been sen­tenced to a year of unsuper­vised probation for a misde­meanor gun charge. Arenas could get anything from pro­bation to five years in jail, although the government indi­cated it will not seek more than six months. 
Until the fateful date comes and goes, questions about Arenas’ future are hard to answer. Would he be willing to play again for the Wizards, the team that gone to great lengths to disassociate itself from him, the team that has removed nearly every trace of him from the Verizon Center? 
“I have no problem,” Arenas said. “Basketball is basketball. I don’t think people realize that. No matter what city, overseas, D-league, park league — I just want to play.” 
Then again, Arenas noted that his future with the Wizards is not up to him. He’s only in the second season of a six-year, $111 million contract. 
“That’s up to the city and the owners,” Arenas said. “It’s out of my hands.” 
Arenas’ sentence could determine whether the Wizards will attempt to void the remainder of his contract, something the players’ union would almost certainly oppose. Still, team president Ernie Grunfeld has indicated an Arenas appearance in a Wizards uniform could happen again, saying last month: “He’s part of the organization. If he wants to play, he’s going to play here.” 
Arenas is not big into down­time — he’s been known to play online poker during half­time of NBA games and work out in the Verizon Center gym at 2 a.m. — but knee problems that derailed his previous two seasons have made it easier for him to cope while away from the arena. 
“You’ve got to remember: I’ve been hurt for two years before this, and so I did all my stir-crazy moments then,” he said. “So now it’s like ‘I’m used to this, I’m used to this time off.’ Just play with the kids, be a father.” 
Arenas also said he’s “stay­ing in shape and finding caus­es to help, without all this pub­licity behind it.” The athlete who used to make news regu­larly via blog, Twitter and out­landish comments in the lock­er room expressed surprise to find a reporter at the PETA event, and his short answers exhibited his preference to lay low. 
His million-dollar smile came to life, however, for the people at Rachael’s Women’s Center, where the event was held. It might seem unusual for PETA to be giving away furs, but these were all donated by peo­ple who bought them, then had a change of heart and wanted to discard them for ethical reasons. Rather than throw them away, PETA accepts the furs and gives them to homeless people and others in need of a winter coat to stay warm. 
Arenas helped the women try on the furs, giving advice on size and looks. Several asked for autographs, photos or hugs — or a combination of all three — and he complied every time. He was called “my favorite basketball player” by one woman and told by anoth­er how much the last-place Wizards need him back. 
PETA approached Arenas about becoming a spokesman for the organization early in the season. It was coincidental that the organization released a photo of his tattooed bare chest with the slogan “Ink, Not Mink” the very week that he was initially suspended by NBA commissioner David Stern. 
“Nothing that allegedly hap­pened had anything to do with how animals are treated on farms or the issues that we advocate for as an organiza­tion,” said Dan Shannon, director of campaigns for PETA. “If he wants to speak out about the cruelty in the fur industry, we want him to do that.” 
Arenas said he’s never owned a fur. Being welcomed by PETA is a welcome change: The Wizards have kept their distance and his shoe compa­ny, Adidas, has dropped him altogether. 
“It’s just like anything. When something happens, everyone flees away,” Arenas said. “So I already knew all that was going to happen. But PETA, they stayed behind me, they stayed with the cause, and that’s the reason I came.” 

NHL 

Olympic hero Miller returns to NHL duties 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. — Once Ryan Miller finally got home to Buffalo early Wednesday, he tossed his Olympic silver medal “some­where” on his dresser. And when he got to the rink for practice, the goalie was thinking about playoffs, not a podium. 
The surroundings were famil­iar and so was Miller’s routine. He stepped on the ice, skated to his customary place on the Sabres logo at center and launched his usual stretching regimen. 
Fun time is over for Miller. As enjoyable as it was becoming an Olympic star at the Vancouver Games, Miller’s back to his regu­lar job with the Sabres and focused on securing a playoff berth during the regular sea­son’s final six weeks. 
“There’s no time to really sit and reflect. Certainly, I am happy with my performance,” Miller said. “I guess it’s sinking in a little bit. But you come back, and you’ve got to get to work.” 
Though Miller was intent on resuming his routine, the defini­tion of normal for him might have changed. Miller played a leading role in the U.S.’ better­than-expected silver-medal per­formance, a run that ended with a 3-2 overtime loss to Canada in the gold medal game Sunday. 
Between interviews with Ryan Seacrest and shown on NBC cel­ebrating at the closing cere­monies, Miller — his unshaven beard, gangly body and shrug-of-the-shoulders demeanor — was selected the tournament MVP by posting a 5-1 record while allowing only eight goals. 
“Heh, heh, I don’t know how it’s changed too much. I’ve been hand to catch a glimpse of Miller. playing goalie for a while now,” “He took a country by storm Miller said, regarding his grow-and proved what he could do,” ing public persona. “It’s just said Matt Bradley, who got a more people are aware of seat directly behind the Sabres things, I guess. That’s kind of bench. what the Olympics brings out: In Buffalo, Miller is regarded More people are paying atten-as the key to the Sabres’ chances tion.” of making a deep playoff run this 
The attention people are pay-season. Already mentioned as a 
ing Miller was evident before 
“The Olympics ... it’s 
Buffalo’s game at Pittsburgh on about great Tuesday night, 
performances. You 
when Miller was 
have to put up great
introduced as the backup and performance after 
received a stand-great performance, 
ing ovation from 
and I thought [Miller]
the packed house of Penguins fans. just kept doing it and 
“You don’t gave that team aalways step into 
chance to be on the 
a visiting rink expecting some-podium.” thing positive,” Miller said. “It 
Lindy Ruff 
was a little surre-
Team Canada coach 
al.” It was much of Vezina Trophy candidate, Miller ranks second in the NHL in goals-against average 
(2.16) and save percentage (93). 
With a 30-15-7 record, Miller has accounted for all but three of Buffalo’s victo­ries this season. The Sabres (33­20-9) are fifth in the Eastern Conference, but have been slumping, going 1-6-2 in their past nine games 
the same on Wednesday night, following a 3-1 loss to when Buffalo hosted the Washington. Washington Capitals. Making his Miller picked up where he left first start since the Olympics, off in Vancouver by making 37 Miller received a 45-second saves against the Capitals, but standing ovation as he was the ultimately it wasn’t enough. last of seven local Vancouver In a bid to shake up the team Games’ medalists honored by and bolster its offense, general the Sabres. manager Darcy Regier made two 
Several fans brought U.S. flags trades before the NHL trading and many more chanted “USA! deadline on Wednesday. In the USA!” as Miller acknowledged more significant deal, Buffalo the cheers with several waves acquired forward Raffi Torres from the goal crease. from Columbus in exchange for 
Miller-mania was already a second-round draft pick and apparent during the pre-game sparingly used defenseman practice, which is open to the Nathan Paetsch. public. A larger than usual With 19 goals this season, crowd of about 100 were on Torres immediately becomes Buffalo’s leading scorer. An eight-year NHL veteran who also played with Edmonton and the Islanders, he has 177 points (98 goals, 79 assists) in 418 career games. 


The Sabres also dealt forward Clarke MacArthur to Atlanta in exchange for third-and fourth-round draft picks. 
Trades aside, Regier discussed how key Miller is to Buffalo. 
“He’s certainly the backbone,” he said. 
Coach Lindy Ruff, who was a Team Canada assistant, became an even bigger fan of Miller after his performance at Vancouver. 
“The Olympics, when you tear it all down, it’s about great per­formances,” Ruff said. “You have to put up great performance after great performance, and I thought Ryan just kept doing it and gave that team a chance to be on the podium.” 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles look for strong start in Sunshine State 
By KEVIN BALDWIN 
Sports Writer 
As Spring Break draws closer, the Belles are preparing for a demanding week of games under the Florida sunshine. Saint Mary’s hopes to follow up a successful 2009 performance, in which they went 22-12 on the year in their season opening tournaments. 
The team remains optimistic fol­lowing a disappointing conclusion to their last season. The Belles started out very strong, standing at 22-4 at one point before fatigue set in and they struggled unsuc­cessfully to add another win to the record. 
“Our expectations are high. We had a great season last year and sort of ran out of gas at the end, so we have been doing a lot of drills and exercises focused on finishing and coming back from being behind in games. I think our men­tal approach is going to be more focused on this for the season,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. 
Sullivan hopes that the team’s performance in the tournament will provide a good chance to eval­uate their abilities in various aspects of the game. 
“Our strengths are always in hitting and solid defense. I am very confident our aggressive bat­ting will help us score a lot of runs and keep us in ball games,” Sullivan said. “Our hitters also bring confidence to our defense as they give us a cushion to play around with.” 
With a veteran cast of mostly sophomores and upperclassmen, the team has a great deal of depth and experience that will be crucial in leading them on the field. 
“Every member of my team is a role player. The starting pitcher is as important as the bench player who picks up on a runner stealing or the grip that gives away the pitcher’s change-up,” Sullivan said. 
Seniors Ashley Peterson, Maureen Healy and Sara Montelongo lead the team by example, always giving a strong showing at the plate as well as on the field and can be counted on to make some clutch plays next week. 
“My lone junior, Hayley Bojorquez, had six outfield assists last year and not only has contin­ued to look great defensively, she has made a couple of adjustments at the plate that will really make her a more solid hitter,” Sullivan said. 
“I’m very excited for our team this year.” 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Team to play first outdoor matches 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
No. 3 Notre Dame hopes to continue both its seven ­match win streak and its upward climb in the rank­ings by beating each of the three teams it will play over Spring Break. 
The Irish (10 -1) have improved on their presea­son ranking by 14 spots. 

Before they “It’s so different when said. “It gives leave South us a week of 
you have sun and
Bend, the training in 
wind, the ball doesn’t 
Irish will 80 -degree host Indiana travel as quickly.” weather Friday in which is what their sixth we’ll experi-
Jay Louderback 
straight ence in the 
Irish coach
home match. The Hoosiers (10-2) fell out 
of the rank­ings last week and are unranked for the first time this season. Despite falling in the rank­ings, the Hoosiers boast a three-match win streak that includes a victory over No. 11 Tennessee. 
“We’re both in the state, and we usually have the best two teams in the state,” Louderback said. “We have always played good matches against each other.” 
Notre Dame will then trav­el to Puerto Rico, where it will play matches against William & Mary and No. 8 Duke for its first outdoor matches of the 2010 season. 
“Southern teams are tough to play early because they’ve been outside and we haven’t been,” Louderback said. 

This change will be an important predictor of Notre Dame’s ability to prepare itself for the hot weather and outside conditions they will be facing for the rest of the season. 
“It’s so different when you have sun and wind, the ball doesn’t travel as quickly. The courts tend to be a little slower,” Louderback 
NCAAs.” 
The Irish 
will play 
William & 

Mary (5 -6) Tuesday. Though the Tribe have struggled this season, Louderback cites their age and experience as big fac­tors that make the them a legitimate opponent for the Irish. 
“We haven’t played them in a while, but they have some older kids and they’ve got experience,” Louderback said. “Their results have been up and down.” 
Before returning home, the Irish will play their third match of the break against the Blue Devils. Though Duke (10-2) still presents a considerable threat to Notre Dame’s almost perfect sea­son, the Blue Devils are coming off of a crucial loss to No. 6 Florida. 
“Duke is the team that won the NCAAs last year, and they could win it again this year,” Louderback said. “They’re one of the teams capable of winning the whole thing. It’s going to be a big match us, and it will be a good test for us out­doors.” 
To prepare for the upcom­ing matches, the Irish took a two-day break from practic­ing to recuperate from last week’s busy schedule. The players were back on the courts Wednesday, working on different areas of their game to prepare for the competition ahead. 
“We worked again on our doubles, and it’s something we need to get better at to be able to win down the road,” Louderback said. “We ’ve done well, but I think we can do better.” 
The status of injured sen­ior Kali Krisik is still up in the air. Krisik is hoping to be able to play by the Indiana game, but will have to wait and see if her health will allow it. Until then, jun­ior Kristen Rafael will assume her position in both doubles and singles play. 
“Rafael played very well, she did a great job stepping in even when we didn’t have a chance to have her prac­tice with anyone, ” Louderback said. 
The Irish welcome Indiana Friday to the Eck Tennis Pavilion at 3 p.m. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
ND TRACK & FIELD 

Teams host Alex Wilson Invitational 

By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 

The Irish men’s and women’s teams will host the Alex Wilson Invitational this weekend, two weeks removed from the men’s victory at the Big East indoor championships — its fourth in eight seasons. 
Notre Dame won either the indoor or outdoor title in each of those eight seasons. 
“The Big East meet was a great measure of the hard work we’ve been putting in, but we can’t rest on our laurels,” senior Daniel Clark said. “We went right back to work and are hop­ing to get some guys qualified for Nationals this weekend.” 
Clark finished third in the men’s mile last weekend with a time of 4:10.71. 
Clark and the Irish realize this weekend provides a new chal­lenge for the team, he said. 
“In order to have a successful weekend we need go out and compete and take our perform­ances up another notch,” Clark said. 
The Alex Wilson Invitational is unique in that it is the last chance to earn a spot at the NCAAs. 
“It attracts many of the best athletes in the country, so the competition will be stiff,” Clark said. “A lot of our guys are right on the cusp of making the national meet, so the challenge is we are not only racing to win a race but also to move up into the top sixteen on the descending order list.” 
The event at the Loftus Sports Center is named in honor of for­mer Irish track athlete and coach Alex Wilson. He competed in the 1928 and 1932 Summer Olympics and proceeded to coach the Notre Dame team for several successful decades. 
The team will not take any­thing they have achieved up to this point for granted. 
“As our last home meet of the year, we definitely won’t be leav­ing anything left on the track as we hope to extend our indoor season for one more week,” Clark said. 
Clark and the Irish are familiar with success, and they expect that trend to continue this week­end at home. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 



ND SOFTBALL 

Irish take win streak to Calif. 
“Our hitters need to see as much live pitching as possi­ble, and our pitchers need to see as many live hitters as possible,” Ganeff said. “Game situations are vital. Our goal is to never have anything happen in a game that the team hasn’t already seen in practice.” 
Both Gumpf and Ganeff cited one big disadvantage going into the two tourna­ments. As the recent weather has inhibited the Irish from playing outside, the defense is having difficulty dealing with switching from practic­ing on turf to playing on dirt. 
“It is a difficult transition,” Ganeff said. “I think it does put our defense at a disad­vantage, but thus far we have done a pretty good job and kept our errors at a min­imum.” 
In terms of the rest of the season, the Irish are using these early, non-conference games to prepare themselves for the conference games that will come later in the season. 
“I do think it is important that we go out to California and have a strong showing because it is going to show where everyone in the con­ference really stands as we head into the Big East Season,” Ganeff said. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
No. 20 Dartmouth comes to new field 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 

Coming off an impressive scor­ing display in a 15-10 victory over Duquesne Saturday, the No. 8 Irish will look to continue their winning ways in a home matchup Sunday against No. 20 Dartmouth. 
The Big Green (0-1) will be the toughest collegiate opponent Notre Dame (2-0) has faced this season. 
Irish coach Tracy Coyne stressed the importance of this non-conference, out-of-region game in the grand scheme of their season. 
“This is a really important early season matchup for us,” Coyne said. “In order to get a high seed in the NCAA Tournament, we need to beat teams out of our region, and Dartmouth is a nationally ranked opponent.” 
Coyne had high praise for the Big Green, but said she felt confi­dent in Notre Dame’s ability to knock off the visitors. 
“Dartmouth is a fundamentally sound team,” Coyne said. “They have 11 returning starters and certain style of play that we have to prepare for.” 
In order to prepare for such a formidable foe, the Irish will develop their own scheme to attack Dartmouth’s game plan. 
Several improvements must be made, however, to beat a stronger opponent. 
“I was disappointed we gave up 10 goals [against Duquesne],” Coyne said. “We need to work on defensive shifts, defensive transi­tion and keeping hard pressure on the ball.” 
Coyne also said the Irish need to keep pressure on the ball dur­ing high-pressure rides, making sure the opposing offense does not get an easy outlet pass. The importance of transition defense is magnified by the fast-paced style of Notre Dame, especially against the fundamentally sound Big Green, Coyne said. 
The Irish have a medley of scorers that can put one in the back of the net at any point in the action. Nine different players scored goals Saturday, and eight of Notre Dame’s 15 goals Saturday were assisted by five different passers. 
Junior midfielder Kailene Abt had four goals against Duquesne and sophomore attack Maggie Tamasitis had four assists. 
The Irish will host Dartmouth Saturday at noon in the new Arlotta Stadium. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame’s seven-game win streak will be tested on a lengthy, nine-game spring break trip to California. 
“Each team we play pres-and are climbing the NCAA rankings. 

“[Ohio State] did not lose much from their squad in 2009, and they have contin­ued to pick up this season where they left off last year,” Irish assistant coach Kris Ganeff said. “They have been 
ents a differ­ent challenge for our team,” Irish coach 

“Our bats are hot and
Deanna Gumpf said. “As long we are coming off of a as we play our 
weekend where we 
best 

played good,
softball, and play it consis-consistent softball.” tently, we will be prepared 
Deanna Gumpf
for each 

Irish coach
team through­out the week.” The Irish (8­
4) went unde­feated in their last two week­end tournaments. 
“Our bats are hot and we are coming off of a weekend where we played good, con­sistent softball,” Gumpf said. 
This weekend, the Irish will participate in the UC Riverside Aten Construction Tournament in Riverside, Calif. They are scheduled to play Ohio State, East Tennessee State and UC Riverside in the tournament. 
The toughest of these teams looks to be the No. 14 Buckeyes, who have already raked in 10 wins this season hitting the ball extreme­ly well during this first three weeks of the season and hitting with power.” 
After the UC Riverside tournament, the Irish will play Cal State Northridge Wednesday in Northridge, Calif., before 

traveling to Long Beach for the Long Beach State Invitational, where they will play Buffalo, San Diego, UNLV, Long Beach State and Purdue. 
“Although it seems like many games in a short span, it’s pretty typical,” Gumpf said. “As long as we are in a good rhythm, it shouldn’t be a struggle at all.” 
To prepare for the competi­tion this weekend, the Irish have been working on all facets of their game in live-game situations. 

Errors 
continued from page 24 
with the team outdoors this week to help simulate actual playing conditions. 
“Right now I think our infield­ers in general have been having a good week of practice,” Schrage said. “I think from that Dame will look to improve an offense that struggled to plate runners last weekend. Unable to score early, the Irish fell behind and failed to mount a comeback. 
Schrage said a lack of plate discipline was the ultimate cause of his team’s offensive struggles. Irish hitting instructor and assistant coach Scott Lawler has been working with the hit-


CCHA 
continued from page 24 
they met so long ago should help the Irish. 
“You have to [forget about the regular season], ” he said. “That is why I think playing a team we haven’t faced since the very begin­ning of the season will bene­fit us. It’ll be more a fresh mindset.” 
Along with that fresh mindset, Jackson said he hopes the playoffs bring the Irish a new style. 
“We’re going to have to be a different team going into the playoffs,” Jackson said. “We’re going to have to play really good defensively, get good goaltending and make sure we do a good job with the puck.” 

The good goaltending will start with freshman goal­tender Mike Johnson, who has anchored the Irish defense with 12 consecutive starts since January 15, and Lawson will lead the defense, as he has for the past four years, with a disci­plined approach. 
“This time of year, you can say what you want, but it’s just everyone is going to show up and put their best effort on the ice,” Lawson said. 
“Whoever is going to have the discipline to come out and best execute their sys­tem, that’ll be huge.” 
Lawson has moved up to fourth in Notre Dame history in games played with 159 in his career, and while he knows any weekend could hold the last games of his college career, Lawson said he wouldn’t put it past this Irish team to make a run. 
“It’s almost a relief in a sense with the type of year that we’ve had,” he said. “Obviously the year didn’t go completely the way we want­ed it to, but it’s not over yet. Now we have a chance to make a run and make some­thing special happen.” 
Lawson and the Irish will try to start a special run Friday at Ohio State at 7:05 
p.m. The Saturday and Sunday games — Sunday only if necessary — will also be at 7:05 p.m. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

standpoint we “We hit some home need to get bet-
runs early in the
ter. The biggest 

season and sometimes
thing over the weekend was the team gets the we really strug­
tendency thinking they
gled with balls 

need to hit home runs
in the air. That’s been our focus to score runs. When this week.” 
that happens, you get
Notre Dame 

a lot of fy outs.” 
will take on Harvard (0-0), Kansas State (6-Dave Schrage 
2) and Stetson 

Irish coach 
(3-5) in the two-day tournament before heading to Edinburg, Texas, for a two-game series against Texas-Pan American (4­1). The Irish will play five games in five days, including a double­header Saturday, but Schrage said his team can only approach the road trip one game at a time. 
“Right now we’re only worried about Harvard,” Schrage said. “We’re staying with our approach of just focusing on the game ahead. Once we start look­ing too far in advance and trying to figure out wins and losses, that’ll kill you. Right now we’ve got a lot of things to work on before we play Harvard this week.” 
In addition to defense, Notre ters in practice in an effort to guide players back to the basics. 
“Coach Lawler talked to them yesterday about our approach,” Schrage said. “We hit some home runs early in the season and sometimes the team gets the tendency thinking they need to hit home runs to score 
runs. When that happens, you get a lot of fly outs.” 
Based on the results in prac­tice, Schrage said Lawler’s advice has been met with suc­cess. 
“We got back to the process of taking the pitch up the middle, hitting everything back up the middle, moving runners, hitting behind runners, hitting and run­ning,” Schrage said. “When we do that we’re a very, very good offensive club.” 
The Irish will face Harvard Saturday at 11 a.m., Kansas State Saturday at 3 p.m. and Stetson Sunday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


Seniors 
continued from page 24 
and attempting no foul shots. 
In the second half, however, Jackson scored 20 points and the Irish shot 61 percent from field goal range. 
“I didn’t want to go out that way,” Jackson said. 
The Irish (20-10, 9-8 Big East) have now won three straight games, all without the help of senior forward Luke Harangody, who has a bone bruise in his knee that is tak­ing some time to heal. 
With the loss, Connecticut fell 9-0 Huskies run gave Connecticut a 13-6 lead and forced Notre Dame to take a timeout with 10:46 left in the half. 

Notre Dame battled back, and four quick points from junior forward Tim Abromaitis, a big dunk and a transition layup, cut the lead to 18-14 with 7:28 remaining. 
The scoring remained limit­ed in the rest of the half: Connecticut led 20-14 with 
5:44 remaining in the half and no one scored until Scott hit a 3-pointer with 2:44 left to cut the lead to three. Notre Dame 
was 0-for-8 from 3-point range until this point. 

to 17-13 (7-10). Junior forward Carleton Scott had a double- “Offensively we were into, ‘Burn it to single digits, back screen  T h e n Jackson took over. N o t r e  
double, scoring 12 points and  for Tory.’”  Dame took the lead in  
grabbing 14 rebounds. He blocked three  Mike Brey Irish coach  the first two minutes on a r e v e r s e  

shots, and Brey said he altered about five more. 
“I want him to alter shots,” Brey said. “I told him I don’t care if you goal-tend two or three.” 
Huskies freshman guard Kemba Walker scored 15 points, but senior forward Stanley Robinson had only six points in 35 minutes and sen­ior guard Jerome Dyson shot 2-of-14 from the field. 
Notre Dame struggled to find good shots early in the game. Connecticut’s size made pene­trating the paint difficult. The score stayed close early, but a 
Schrader 
continued from page 24 
scoring with 11.2 points per game. 
The Irish will look to rebound quickly from their loss to Connecticut and build some momentum heading into the NCAA Tournament. 
layup from 
Jackson and 
Scott’s sec­

ond 3. A pull-up jumper from Jackson uncorked the Purcell Pavilion noise and forced a Connecticut timeout. Jackson scored 11 points in the first 10 minutes of the second half, while Connecticut scored only six points in that span, and Notre Dame led 37-26 with 9:54 remaining. 
“I love it,” Scott said of Jackson’s explosion. “We see him in practice, we know he’s capable.” 
Jackson said he felt he had 
The Irish will tip -off on Saturday at noon against either Pittsburgh or Louisville in Hartford, Conn. 
If the Irish can defeat the Panthers or Cardinals, they’ll play a rematch against St. John’s on Saturday in the quarterfinals at noon. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
to step up, specifically because Walker was guarding him. 
“I had a young guy guarding me, so I had to take advantage of it,” he said. “I felt like I had to use my power drive on him.” 
The Irish held the ball for a long time to slow the game down in the second half, Brey said. 
“Offensively we were into, ‘Burn it to single digits, ball screen for Tory,’” he said. 
Notre Dame led 43-32 with 
5:58 remaining after senior guard Ben Hansbrough’s two free throws, his first points of the game. Jackson’s layup with 2:13 left put Notre Dame ahead by 12, but Dyson and Walker cut the lead to six with 54 seconds remaining. 
That was as close as they would get. 
Brey said the team has made a good push towards NCAA Tournament consideration, both because of its play and because of the strength of the conference. 
“We should have the most teams in the Tournament,” he said. “I think we’ve got nine or 
10. We certainly have a very powerful resume now.” 
Note: 
u Brey said Harangody will be re-evaluated in the next few days and his status for the game at Marquette Saturday could change. He said the chances were slim, but he wanted to leave the door open because there has been improvement. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Trip 
continued from page 24 

Loyola (Md.) in the Face-Off Classic. Notre Dame and Loyola (2-0) join a top-notch field at the Classic, featuring No. 6 Maryland against No. 9 Duke and No. 7 Princeton against No. 5 Johns Hopkins. Notre Dame and Loyola are the last of the three top -10 match-ups Saturday. 
“[Loyola is] a eight weeks of school, and then they have midterms to deal with,” he said. “No ques­tion the break comes at a good time and it will be good for the guys.” 
Corrigan said he does not expect the Irish to let their minds completely vegetate, but instead to take a slight rest. 
“It will be nice, for the first 
10 days our guys can really focus on lacrosse,” Corrigan said. “They don’t have work to 

very skilled “No question the break do. They don’t 
team that is have classes.” 
comes at a good time
playing very Without the good lacrosse and it will be good for classes, senior right now,” the guys.” goalt ender Corrigan said. Scott Rodgers, “They have a named a candi-
Kevin Corrigan 
little bit of a date for the chip on their Irish coach 2010 Lowe’s 
shoulder — they didn’t get into the [NCAA] Tournament last year and feel like they are one of the top teams.” 
The Irish will then travel to Philadelphia to face Drexel before finishing their trip in Houston against Fairfield. 
“It’s a great week for our team,” Corrigan said. “It’s three very good games, and it’s tough to play three games in seven days like that.” 
Despite the busy week on the field, Corrigan said the 
p l a ye r s  s t i l l  r e l i sh  s p r i n g  
break.  
“ T h e y  a r e  j u s t  l i k e  a n y  

other students. They can get ground down over the first 
Senior CLASS Award, senior attack Neal Hicks and the rest of the Irish 
will be expected to properly prepare for Loyola. 
“We’re just worried about Loyola on Saturday right now. We’ll take them as they come,” Corrigan said. “It’s very boring but if you approach it in any other way, that is when you run into trouble.” 
Notre Dame meets Loyola Saturday at 4 p.m., Drexel 
Tu e s d a y  a t  4  p. m.  a n d  
Fairfield  on  March  13  at 1  
p.m. (CDT).  

Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Thursday, March 4, 2010 page 24 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Closing statement 
Jackson stars in huge Senior Night victory 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
When it was over, Tory Jackson grabbed a microphone and verbalized his perform­ance to the Purcell Pavilion the only way possible — he screamed at the top of his lungs. 
Jackson smiled his way through a second half filled with reverse layups and forced turnovers and drove the Irish to a 58-50 win over Connecticut Wednesday. 
“Isn’t it fitting that Tory Jackson would not let us lose on Senior Night?” Irish coach Mike Brey said. 

Jackson scored 22 points and had four steals. Points weren’t cheap in this game: The first half ended with Connecticut ahead 20-17. Notre Dame trailed by three despite shoot­ing 23.5 percent in the first half, making 1-of-11 3-pointers PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Senior guard Tory Jackson reacts after sinking a layup late in Notre Dame’s 58-50 win over see SENIORS/page 22 Connecticut on Senior Night Wednesday. Jackson scored 20 of his 22 points in the second half. 

BASEBALL 
Basics will be focus in Florida 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Like much of the student body, the Irish will flee the South Bend cold for warmer temperatures in Florida. But Irish coach Dave Schrage said he is more inter­ested in seeing his players mas­ter their fundamentals than work on their tans in the two-day Stetson Bright House Invitational in Deland, Fla. 
“The two biggest things are playing better defense, one, and the second thing is to get our starting pitchers to go deeper into games,” Schrage said. “We’re into the third week in, and we have to start getting them into the seventh inning.” 
Defense plagued Notre Dame (4-2) during the Big Ten/Big East Challenge last weekend, as the Irish fielders committed 13 errors. Schrage said he worked 
see ERRORS/page 21 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
No. 6 Irish enter Big East tournament as No. 5 seed 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 6 Irish will head to the Big East Championship this weekend after earning the No. 5 seed and a first-round bye. Notre Dame will face the winner of No. 12­seed Pittsburgh and No. 13­seed Louisville on Saturday. 
Notre Dame (25-4, 12-4) just missed earning a second-round bye as well. Its confer­ence record matched that of No. 4-seed St. John’s, but the Irish lost the head-to-head matchup, 76-7, on Feb. 16. 
The Irish are also seeded behind national No. 1 Connecticut (30-0, 16-0), No. 7 West Virginia (26-4, 13-3) and No. 12 Georgetown (25-5, 13-3). 
The Irish fell to Connecticut for the second time Monday in a 76-51 home loss. If both were to advance, Notre Dame would end up facing the Huskies in the semifinals of the conference tournament. 
But first the Irish will await the winner of the first round match-up between Pittsburgh (16-13, 6-11) and Louisville (13-16, 6-11). 
Each team presents a unique set of challenges and opportunities for the Irish. 
Freshman guard Skylar Diggins enjoyed one of her best games of the season against Pittsburgh on Feb. 6 in an 86-76 Irish win. She 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

ND to meet top teams on trip 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
While their classmates trav­el hundreds of miles in pur­suit of warm weather, the No. 3 Irish will travel thousands of miles — 3,727 to be exact 
— in pursuit of stiff competi­tion. If things go according to plan, they’ll find both top competition and fun during their Caribbean Spring Break. 
“It’s always a good trip in terms of team bonding,” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. “We spend a lot of time together … It’s a busy week.” 
No. 3 Notre Dame (2-0) will begin its spring break slate Saturday with a game in Baltimore against No. 10 
see TRIP/page 22 


posted career highs with 23 points and 10 rebounds. 
Notre Dame also outscored the Panthers in the paint, 46­34, as well as out-rebounding them, 38-32. 
Louisville, on the other hand, gave the Irish problems early in the game when the two teams played on Jan 19. The Irish fell behind by as many as 12 points in the first half against the Cardinals. 
The Irish rebounded in the second half, though, using an eight -minute run with 20 turnovers and no Louisville field goals to secure the 78-60 win. 
Back in the lineup is senior forward Lindsay Schrader, whose weeklong absence after a sprained ankle coincided with Notre Dame losses to St. John’s and Georgetown. 
Schrader leads the team with 6.9 rebounds per game and is third on the team in 
see SCHRADER/page 22 
HOCKEY 

‘Fresh start’ for team at conference tournament 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 

The buzz words have finally changed. 
For the past two months the Irish (13-1-5-8, 9-12-7-2 CCHA) have spoken of “momentum” and “talent in the locker room,” but, no matter what the week’s catchphrase was, the week­end held a disappointment of some order — dishearten­ing losses or another injury to the already depleted line­up. 
Heading into the first round of the CCHA playoffs at Ohio State (12-16-6, 10­12-6-4) this weekend, Irish coach Jeff Jackson and sen­ior alternate captain Kyle Lawson both spoke of a “fresh start” in the “second season.” 
“Our team is capable of doing big things,” Jackson said. “It’s just a matter of them believing it right now. I think going into this sec­ond season, it is important for us to recognize that it is a fresh start.” 
Notre Dame last met the Buckeyes on Halloween weekend. The Irish won the first game of the two-game series 3-1, and fell in a shootout the second night. Jackson said facing a team 
see CCHA/page 21 





