the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Professors from abroad discuss transition to ND 


Photo courtesy of Ghada Bualuan 
Notre Dame professor Ghada Bauluan stands in front of the Mediterranean Sea with her oldest son Roy in 2003. 
“At first it was hard and very 

By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
challenging, for I missed 
News Writer 
Lebanon so much. I missed my family and friends,” she said. “I 
Several Notre Dame profes-felt awfully lonely.” sors first knew the United For others though, the transi-States as a foreign country. tion was not as difficult. Professor Ghada Bualuan from Professor Olivier Morel, from the Classics department moved the Romance Languages and to the United States from Literatures department, said he Lebanon after marrying her husband. see ABROAD/page 4 




Student promotes peace 
Senior uses recreational outlets to launch nonprofit organization 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 

Senior Jeb Brovsky plans on making the promotion of glob­al peace a part of his future with the creation of the non­profit organization Peace Pandemic Corp., which will use sports and other recre­ational outlets as a means for promoting peace among youth across the globe. 
“The mission of the organi­zation is to simply empower youth through peaceful action,” Brovsky said. “It’s about achieving peace through sport and music with kids.” 
Brovsky, who is graduating at the end of December with a degree in Entrepreneurial 
Photo courtesy of Jeb Brovsky

Studies and a minor in 
Senior Jeb Brovsky and University President Fr. John Jenkins
International Peace Studies, 
hold personal petitions for peace. 
thought of the idea for Peace Pandemic Corp. when he was a sophomore. wanted to end up in my life to this.” 
He said this past summer he December,” Brovsky said. “I Brovsky, who is a forward decided to make the nonprofit worked on getting Peace on the Notre Dame soccer organization part of his imme-Pandemic off the ground, lit-team and a finalist for this diate future. erally all day, every day this 
“I began to see where I summer. I would like to devote see PEACE/page 6 



Gardensgogreeninmorewaysthanone 
By LAUREN KELLY 
News Writer 
Irish Gardens, Notre Dame’s student-run campus flower shop, is going green. 
The shop has begun com­posting waste in an effort to become more eco-friendly. 
“The project has been in the works since the start of the semester, but fully got put into action at the end of October,” senior Celia Johns, product manager at Irish Gardens, said. 
The name of this new cam­paign, spearheaded by Johns, is “Making the Gardens Green.” 
“[Junior] Clare Mundy — one of the other managers — and I talked about encourag­ing recycling in the shop this year during a brainstorming session over the summer,” Johns said. “I got the idea for the composting program from a colloquium on Catholic Social Teaching and Sustainability, when a presen­tation from the Office of Sustainability talked about the community garden that was started over the summer, and that collections from landscape services makes up the compost for the garden.” 
The project got rolling with help from the University. 
“I contacted LaFortune Building Services, and they were very supportive of our initiative, and helped us get new large recycling bins so the custodial staff would know of the policy change,” Johns said. “As a student run business, it was up to the stu­dent managers to lead the charge on policy changes.” 
The Notre Dame compost pile is located at the Food Service Support Facility. Waste from Irish Gardens is collected and deposited there. 
“The compost is added to the compost pile of other organic material that breaks down and provides natural fertilizer for the gardens that grow food used in the dining hall and by the community,” Johns said. 
Johns said she has heard positive feedback. 
“Other students and faculty have been very supportive of the idea [and] excited that we 
see GARDENS/page 5 


SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Irish Gardens, the foral shop in LaFortune Student Center, has begun composting waste in an effort to become more eco-friendly. 


1st Source offersgrants for research 

By CASEY KENNY 
News Writer 
In order to offer an incentive to bring university-based research to the marketplace, 1st Source Bank is sponsoring an annual award of up to $20,000 for Notre Dame and Indiana University School of Medicine South Bend (IUSM­SB) researchers who have suc­cessfully commercialized new technologies. 
The award was established last year with a $1-million gift from 1st Source Bank and will be presented each year to a Notre Dame or IUSM-SB faculty member. The first award will be presented in the spring at an awards banquet, said chair of the selection committee Robert Bernhard, vice presi­dent for research at Notre Dame. 
see RESEARCH/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Food services changes page 3  Now and then: Women’s basketball page 10  Women’s soccer NCAA tournament page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesday, November 10, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WILL THE WORLD BE LIKE IN 25 YEARS?

THE OBSERVER 








P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Meaghan Veselik Alicia Smith Chris Allen Melissa Flanagan Kelsey Manning 
Graphics Scene 
Blair Chemidlin Jordan Gamble 
Photo Viewpoint 
Coleman Collins Ren Brauweiler 
OFFBEAT 
Man looking for drugs calls ‘Crime Stoppers’ 
CLARENCE — A New York man looking to buy drugs misdialed and got the sheriff's "Crime Stoppers" line instead. Erie County Sheriff's Detective Alan Rozansky said he got a call around noon on Monday and answered with his usual "Crime Stoppers." The caller apparently didn't hear that and told Rozansky he was looking "to score" drugs. 
Rozansky told WIVB-TV that he was surprised but played along and arranged a meeting with undercover officers. The officers didn't arrest the caller but used him as an informant to 

Ryan Schwab  Johnathan Brown  Andrew Carreon  Dan Scott  Annette Allard  Zuolei Liao  
senior  junior  freshman  grad student  grad student  grad student  
Alumni  O’Neill  Duncan  off campus  off campus  off campus  

“Gone ... the  “The  “Probably not  “In 2035 ...  “How it is now,  “Cars will not  
world is going  re-emergence of  much different  about the same  just older. And  be the same;  
to end in 2012.”  the Notre Dame  from today ...”  as it will  hopefully more  there won’t be  
football  always be.”  eco-friendly.”  enough gas.”  
dynasty will  
come.”  




Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

Banana frita (fried banana) was one of the delicious cuisines served at the Brazilian Cultural Night, hosted by members of Brazil Club in the Lafortune Ballroom Tuesday night. 
lead them to another transaction taking place down the road. 
There, police arrested a 35-year-old woman trying to sell her prescription painkillers to a Buffalo man. 
The careless caller is off the hook for now. 
Delivery man IDs hungry robbery suspect 
SPRINGFIELD — Police in western Massachusetts say a man has been arrested in the robbery of a food delivery driver after he returned to the driver's restaurant for seconds. 
Sgt. John Delaney says police arrested 23-year­old Edward Blatch on Monday at Fu Wong Restaurant in Springfield after the delivery driver identified him. Delaney said the driver and cooks surrounded Blatch and held him until officers arrived. 
Blatch is scheduled to be arraigned on an armed robbery charge Tuesday in Springfield District Court. It was unclear if he had an attorney. 
Police say two men robbed the 23-year-old restaurant driver at gun­point when he made a delivery in September, tak­ing the food, $200, a cell phone and a high school class ring. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The lecture “Judicial Independence and Political Discrimination in Venezuela” will take place today at 12:30 
p.m. in Room 3140 in Eck Hall of Law. Food will be provided. 
The flash panel The Humanities in Peril: Does Notre Dame Have An Answer? will take place at 4:30 p.m. today. It will be in Andrews Auditorium in Geddes Hall. It will be a Nanovic Flash Panel on the recent trend of colleges and universities eliminating programs in the Humanities. 
An Research/Study Abroad for Spring 2011 Information Session for international stu­dents will take place at 2 p.m. today. The session will discuss important rules and regulations for conducting research and studying abroad as an interna­tional student. It will take place in the Montgomery Auditorium of the LaFortune Student Center. 
The film October Country will be shown Thursday at 6:30 
p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The film offers a moving portrait of contemporary working class life as the family struggles to over­come the demons of the past and create the opportunity for a better tomorrow. The movie costs from $3 to $6. 
The lecture How the Catholic Church’s Teachings on Abortion, Sex, and Marriage are Pro-women will take place on Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Catholic Pro-Life author and speaker Erika Bachiochi will give the lecture in the Stapleton Lounge of Le Mans Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday GAME DAY Sunday 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



69 59 HIGH 7067 5046
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


41 41 LOW 4243 3529 







Wednesday, November 10, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



SMC food services make changes 

By THERESA BAJOREK 
News Writer 
Changes to dining services at Saint Mary’s, including the merg­ing of the Cyber Café and conven­ience store, have been imple­mented with the hope that grab­bing a bite on campus will be easier and more convenient for students. 
When Saint Mary’s Bookstore was outsourced to Follett after Fall Break, Follett took the space originally given to the conven­ience store (C-store) in the Student Center and the C-Store was moved into the Cyber Café. 
The Café, which originally closed at 10 p.m., is now open until midnight. Students called for the change to Saint Mary’s student government last semes­ter. 
“People are just getting started [studying] at 10,” first year Sarah Thompson said. “People get the munchies. So, I think it’s good that the convenience store and the Cyber Café are open later now.” 
Additional changes include the playing of music during dinner hours in the Saint Mary’s Noble Family Dining Hall, and the avail­ability of hummus outside the deli, said Barry Bowles, the din­ing hall’s general manager. 
“I love the music at dinner,” first year Annie Beck said. “It’s so nice and it really boosts the mood.” 
Although these changes are subtle, they are significant to some students, Bowles said. 



TOM LA/The Observer Student body president Catherine Soler and student body vice president Andrew Bell attend Tuesday’s Council of Representatives meeting. 


“It doesn’t sound like a lot and we haven’t made any big changes, but [these changes] can make a big difference on a stu­dent’s day,” he said. 
According to Bowles, the main issue the kitchen staff competes with is that everyone has differ­ent tastes. It is up to his staff to find “what’s going to please the most people,” Bowles said. 
Asking questions and making suggestions are among the best ways for students to have a voice in what options are provided, he said. 
“Students ask great questions,” Bowles said. “I love to hear what students want and I’m always willing to listen.” 
The Saint Mary’s website also has a feedback form that stu­dents can fill out to submit com­ments and questions, he said. 
Bowles said most of the new additions to the dining hall have been made based on student opinion and suggestions, includ­ing surveys that have been e­mailed to students on multiple occasions so far this year. 
“I trust the Saint Mary’s stu­dents,” Bowles said. 
Still, some students seek bigger changes to the dining hall. 
Junior Madison Thatcher said she thinks the general consensus of the student body is that they “eat a lot of the same thing every day.” 
“I would like to see more options,” Thatcher said. 
Bowles said he is still searching for ways to change the dining hall. 
“I would love to see a Facebook page started,” Bowles said. 
Another possibility is the idea of being able to order and pay for off-campus delivery using Saint Mary’s student Munch Money, he said. 
Bowles said it is his goal to facilitate communication between students and staff to create a dining hall that will sat­isfy as many students as possible. 


Contact Theresa Bajorek at tbajor01@saintmarys.edu 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


CORdiscussesOff-Campus Council 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Members of the Council of Representatives (COR) consid­ered changing the Off ­Campus Council’s constitution at Tuesday’s meeting. 
Last week, representatives agreed the electoral proce­dure and structure of the Off-Campus Council are unclear and not effective, so last night, off-campus president Ryan Hawley presented a list of changes. 
The first of these changes came in response to a sugges­tion at last week’s meeting to have an overlap when the leadership changes, so the 
outgoing president would have the ability to familiarize the president-elect with the position. 
“We did a few things with changing the way the Off ­Campus Council works and functions,” Hawley said. “We’ve created a title of off-campus president ex-officio … it will basically just assist the elected president during the last month.” 
If the changes are approved, voting for off-cam­pus positions will be expand­ed, and the Council will begin to utilize off-campus ambas­sadors. 
“People who are currently on campus but moving off can now vote and run,” Hawley said. “Off-campus ambassa­dors, we’ve basically added a whole section to define what they are.” 
According to the resolution, a minimum of six “off-campus ambassadors will be appoint­ed to various off -campus neighborhoods ... ambassa­dors represent the opinions of this appointed area and dis­seminate information in such a way that it is readily acces­sible to residents of the area.” 
Student body president Catherine Soler said she hoped the resolution will be approved when it goes before the Student Senate next Wednesday. 
Members also posed possi­ble modifications to the Student Activities Office (SAO) procedure for reserving ven­ues and approving program­ing. 
“Sometimes we find it diffi­cult to program on this cam­pus for many reasons. Costs are too high, or sometimes you can’t see the venues before you submit the SAO request,” Soler said. “We’re looking for what would make it easier to plan events, col­laborate with people, to save money.” 
Some possible remedies dis­cussed by representatives include assembling a print collection of discounts offered by local businesses as well as consolidating venue informa­tion. 
“What we want to do is try to create a booklet that con­tains offers that various places have given us that we can give to student groups,” Soler said. 
Senior Class Council presi­dent Kate Clitheroe said she thought the problem lies in publicity for programming. 
“I think we have all the resources we need to plan events. I think it’s more a problem of advertising,” she said. “If we want to help with programming we need help with advertising.” 


Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 10, 2010 

Abroad 
continued from page 1 
had few problems moving from France to America. 
“Perhaps it was because of my experiences, because [I moved here for] love,” he said. “But I did not struggle with moving here. 
Morel said, however, that everyone has to adjust to acclimate themselves to a new environment. From manner­isms in social interactions to adapting to a new diet, every aspect of life changes, he said. 
“The human body and mind goes through a cultural change,” Morel said. Pointing to a hot dog on his desk, he added, “I would have never eaten this for lunch before.” 
Several professors said they lost sense of community. 
Professor Mahan Mirza from the Classics department said in his homeland of Pakistan, people seemed more connect­ed. 
“We would come out and play in the wonderful neigh­borhoods. You would know the people at the local store,” he said, speaking of his child­hood. “It felt very organic and connected. Here you tend to feel a little more isolated.” 
Bualuan also commented on this feature of American socie­ty. She said differences in tra­dition, while respected, could cause a person to be set apart. 
“I, like many other Arabs in America, have faced prejudice and some sort of discrimina­tion. I didn’t initially feel that most people accepted me for who I am, but I didn’t take it personally,” she said. “However, this fact made it difficult for me to truly belong.” 
In Pakistan, Mirza said reli­gion is widespread, though its actual practice depends on each family. 
“[My family] was pretty sec­ular, though my mother was devout and would pray,” he said. “Being a Muslim country, you hear the call for prayer five times a day.” 
transforms an entire society. War is often ignored, not out of disrespect, but simply because of everyday life. 
There are parts of everyday life that Morel said he enjoys. 
“This is a joke: You have wonderful beds, wonderful chairs — the first thing I notice when I go back to France is that my back hurts 
— and wonderful showers,” he said. “You invented V8 and the 
free refill.” Mirza said 
While religion  “The human body  the quality of  
was more i m m e d i a t e l y present in his life while grow- and mind goes through a cultural change.”  this nation’s academic insti­tutions are dis­t i n g u i s h a b l e  
ing  up,  Mirza  from  other  
said coming to the U.S. allowed him to  Oliver Morel professor  countries. “The aca-demic institu­ 
discover  his  Romance Languages  tions here  are  
identity.  and Literature  very strong. I  

“You ask all the questions you never asked before. What does it mean to be religious? You have to make a choice now,” he said. “I began to take religion more seriously to keep my grounding and give myself some bearings.” 
Taken from another per­spective, Morel said the fea­ture that differentiates the United States from other coun­tries is its relationship with war. 
“America is at war, but we don’t see any signs. I thought this would be a good time to come to the U.S. and witness what is happening to a society in a country I love,” Morel said. “In the United States, I have met people who have never been involved in a war.” 
Morel said this relationship can’t imagine 
giving up an opportunity [to work here]. Nonetheless, there are institu­tions coming up in the Muslim world like Pakistan,” he said. “You wonder sometimes if you would do a service by moving back and helping to uplift your homeland. 
Especially at Notre Dame, Morel said, the world of aca­demia is thriving. 
“We are doing things here that we could never do in France. Universities there are more conservative,” he said. “Notre Dame is often seen as traditional, but when it comes to the Arts and Letters, the level of freedom that we have here is incomparable.” 


Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 
Research 
continued from page 1 
The selection committee will review nominations and select the winner. 
“We are expecting a large pool of nominees whose research can yield great prod­ucts or services,” Bernhard said. “We are looking for researchers with innovative was greatly impacted,” Bernhard said. 
Christopher Murphy, presi­dent and CEO of 1st Source Corporation, emphasized the significance of this kind of research and its potential impact. 
“Innovation and entrepre­neurship are critical for the growth of the community,” Murphy said. “Research with­out engagement in the market­place is useless, and therefore it 

research ideas  “Innovation and  is important for  
who have dis-closed it to the University, filed  enterpreneurship are critical for the growth  research institu­tions to be play­ers in the mar- 
for a patent and are looking to take it to the next level.”  of the community. Research without engagement in the  ketplace.” The type research to awarded  of be is  
According to Bernhard, the award offers researchers the  marketplace is useless, and therefore it is  expansive and covers everything from the sciences and engineering  
opportunity to explore ways in which their work can con- important for research institutions to be players in the  to the social sci­ences, according to Murphy. “This award is  
tribute to socie­ty.  marketplace.”  a win-win-win for everyone,”  
Bernhard said Press Ganey — a health care  Christopher Murphy president and CEO  Murphy said. “It is a win for the researchers, the  
p e r f o r m a n c e  1st Source Corporation  University,  the  

improvement company head­quartered in South Bend — resulted from the research in the 1980s of two Notre Dame professors who saw an oppor­tunity to improve an industry area that desperately needed development. 
“The two professors who started Press Ganey successful­ly commercialized their research and, as a result, the local and national community users of the com­
merciali zed research and the community in which the research can create jobs and improve lives.” 
The 1st Source gift will also fund an annual symposium on the commercialization of tech­nology and will bring commer­cialization experts to Notre Dame. 


Contact Casey Kenny at ckenny @nd.edu 


Wednesday, November 10, 2010 The Observer  NEWS page 5 

Gardens 
continued from page 1 
are taking initiative to help improve the sustainability of Notre Dame,” Johns said. “The employees have been quick to pick up on the new procedures with recycling and compost, as well as other changes such as unplugging unnecessary electronic devices as well as reducing paper use.” 
Other Irish Gardens employ­ees said they are pleased with the new compost program. 
“Our work at Irish Gardens involves such beautiful things that the world has created. 
We need to preserve that beauty and one way we can do that is by keeping waste to a minimum,” sophomore Krystal Hentges, an Irish Gardens employee, said. 
Johns the project is for the entire Notre Dame communi­ty. 
“As a Catholic university, I think it is important that we try to live out the Catholic Social Teaching principles, one of which is care for God’s creation,” Johns said. “By being more environmentally friendly, we can better take care of this gift given to us by God.” 


Contact Lauren Kelly at lkelly3@nd.edu 





Immigrant asks court for appeal 
Associated Press 
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. — A Guatemalan woman who lost custody of her son after she was caught up in a 2007 immigration sweep asked the Missouri Supreme Court on Tuesday to overturn an American couple’s adoption of the child. 
Encarnacion Bail Romero was sentenced to two years in a fed­eral prison after pleading guilty to aggravated identity theft. She has been seeking to regain cus­tody of her now 4-year-old son, Carlos, since leaving prison last year. 
The child has lived with Seth and Melinda Moser, of Carthage, since he was about 1 year old. Another couple who had been helping Romero’s family care for the boy after her arrest had con­tacted the Mosers about adopt­ing him. 
The Mosers’ attorneys have said the court terminated Romero’s parental rights in 2008 after finding she had not tried to maintain contact or provide for the child while she was in jail 
Romero’s lawyers contend the adoption process was flawed and that Romero was not given sufficient legal representation before losing custody of her son, who was born in the U.S. and is a U.S. citizen. 
The state Supreme Court agreed to take up the case after an appellate court overturned the trial court decision that gave custody to the adoptive parents. 
Much of the discussion before the high court Tuesday focused on the legal intricacies of the case. However, Supreme Court Judge Richard Teitelman called the case a “tragedy.” 
Rick Schnake, an attorney for the Mosers, said Romero aban­doned her child after the immi­gration sweep and left few options for who should care for the boy. Schnake said the boy would be better off staying with the couple, with whom he has lived for several years and who speak the same language as him. 
“I don’t see it in his best inter­est that he be ... taken away from parents who are the only mommy and daddy that he knows,” Schnake said. The Mosers stood several feet behind Schnake as he spoke with a clus­ter of reporters. They did not comment. 
Romero was not immediately deported so that she can chal­lenge the adoption, according to her attorneys. They say she never abandoned her son and that a recent U.S. Supreme Court ruling has since limited federal authorities’ ability to use the law under which she was sentenced to prison. 
Speaking through a translator, Romero told reporters after the hearing that she was pleased to be in court when the case was considered. She said she was thankful her son was healthy but sad that she was not with him. 
“My child should be with me. He is my son. And I want to be with my son,” Romero said. 
The hearing generated signifi­cant interest. Among those watching was Guatemala’s ambassador to the U.S., who sat near Romero at the front of the room. The Mosers listened near the back of the courtroom. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 10, 2010 
structure for Peace Pandemic Corp. 

Peace 


continued from page 1 
year’s Lowe’s Senior Class Award, said his initial efforts with Peace Pandemic will focus on using soccer to promote cross-cultural relationships among youth. 
“I want to use soccer as the avenue and curriculum for peace, nonviolence and leader­ship,” he said. “Soccer is its own international language. You put down a soccer ball anywhere and it doesn’t matter who the players on the field are but they all understand each 
“We’re working on the busi­ness side like the website, mar­keting plan and the finances,” junior Cate Hefele, the director of marketing for SIBC, said. “We’re focused on the profit side to make the non-profit sustainable.” 
Hefele said the SIBC’s goal is to make Peace Pandemic a legitimate organization no mat­ter what SIBC’s role will be in the nonprofit in the future. 
“We’re trying to put together a business plan and solidify it so that we can be the support group whether it be a continu­ing project or it our role 
“I want to use soccer
other.” becomes creat-Brovsky said as the avenue and ing a business 
his idea for curriculum for peace, plan for the 
Peace Pandemic future,” she 
nonviolence and
follows the said. “Peace “Toms Shoes leadership.” Pandemic has one-for-one big goals and idea” — in we’re trying to 
Jeb Brovosky 
which the com-add structure.” 
senior
pany gives a pair of shoes to an underpriviledged child for every pair they sell. But Brovsky will apply this idea to sports camps. 
“We’ll fund a camp here in America for the kids and then we fund a camp abroad,” he said. 
The camps abroad will be funded by camp fees American kids will pay in order to partic­ipate in the domestic camp. Brovsky said ideally, additional funding from corporate spon­sorships and partnerships Brovsky made with soccer clubs in the States. 
“Through the soccer world I’ve made a lot of contacts here and abroad and I’m planning on using as many of those resources as I possibly can,” he said. 
An additional aspect of the camps will be fostering rela­tionships between cultures and help break stereotypes. 
“The kids in both camps indi­vidually have the opportunity Hefele said 
SIBC’s backing of Peace Pandemic Corp. will be beneficial when Brovsky heads to Europe in January. 
“We’re a good team because he has the big ideas and I’m the one who reins him in and tell him how we can make it happen,” Hefele said. “Even with Jeb abroad, he will be able to go out there and stir up energy about the organization while we can continue to deal with the structural side here.” 
The collaboration yielded successful results. With Hefele and the SIBC’s assistance, Brovsky was able to get Peace Pandemic established as an official nonprofit organization in the state of Colorado. 
Brovsky said he is currently focused on bringing awareness to the nonprofit while continu­ing to develop his goals for Peace Pandemic Corp. 
“Right now I’m establishing my resource base and trying to spread news about the organi­zation as much as possible,” he 
to swap letters,” he said. “The idea is they’ll learn about  “Through the soccer world I’ve made a lot of contacts here and  said. “I’ve sent thousands of e­mails and let-ters.”  
another culture  abroad and I’m  In  order  to  
and develop a friendship with this kid in  planning on using as many of those  bring more stu­dent awareness to his efforts,  
another  coun- resources as  Brovsky created  
try.” Brovsky said  possibly can.”  a Facebook group and is  
he wants the organization to  Jeb Brovosky  currently work­ing with SIBC on  
“take on the big  senior  developing  a  

conflicts,” such as the unrest in Northern Ireland by sponsoring camps between two warring cultural groups throughout the world. 
“It will break a lot of stereo­types having a friend from another culture,” Brovsky said. “I believe that a lot of violence happens because of misunder­standings.” 
With his commitment to glob­al peace and the common good, Brovsky found a high level of support from the Notre Dame community, including University President Fr. John 
Jenkins  and  President  
Emeritus  Fr.  Theodore  
Hesburgh.  

“I was able to meet one-on­one with both Fr. Jenkins and Fr. Hesburgh, and they gave me their blessing,” Brovsky said. “They both gave me con­tacts and domestically and internationally to help me get my resource base for the organization together.” 
Brovsky is also working with the Student International Business Council (SIBC) here on campus, to establish a website as well 
as distributing literature to the student body. 
“We’re starting to hand out pledge cards and raise student awareness,” he said. “We’re not an official club, so SIBC is the only avenue that we can work through right now.” 
Brovsky said he thinks he will succeed in promoting peace with Peace Pandemic Corp. through untraditional means. 
“I think soccer is the way to go, especially being the ‘poor people’s sport,’” he said. “I don’t think sport has been uti­lized to its full potential in peace purposes. No one really talks about athletics when they talk about peacemaking, but I want to exhaust all those resources.” 
While he recognizes the goals for Peace Pandemic Corp. are large in scale, Brovsky said he will measure the success of the organization on a much small­er level. 
“If I develop one peacemaker, I’ve basically won.” 

Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 

Wednesday, November 10, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 7 



San Francisco bans toys in meals 

Bush book draws 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — It's a happy moment for people who see the Happy Meal as anything but. 
San Francisco has become the first major American city to pro­hibit fast-food restaurants from including toys with children's meals that do not meet nutrition­al guidelines. 
The city's Board of Supervisors gave the measure final approval Tuesday on an 8-3 vote. That's enough votes to survive a planned veto by Mayor Gavin Newsom. 
The ordinance, which would go into effect in December of next year, prohibits toy giveaways in fast-food children's meals that have more than 640 milligrams of sodium, 600 calories or 35 per­cent of their calories from fat. The law also would limit saturat­ed fats and trans fats and require fruits or vegetables to be served with each meal with a toy. 
“Our effort is really to work with the restaurants and the fast-food industry to create healthier choices,” said Supervisor Eric Mar, the measure's chief sponsor. “What our kids are eating is making them sick, and a lot of it is fast food.” 
The legislation is a big victory for activists and public health advocates who have charged food marketers with being complicit in the country's growing childhood obesity rates. They hope other cities and counties nationwide will follow their lead. 
“This will be a sign to the fast-food industry that it's time to phase out its predatory market­ing to children at large,” said Deborah Lapidus, a senior organ­izer with Boston-based Corporate Accountability International, a watchdog group that supported the legislation. 
Supervisors and activists who support the measure say they hope obesity-curbing efforts like the one approved Tuesday will eventually spread to other cities, states and the country. A similar ordinance has already been approved in California's Santa Clara County, where it affected about a dozen restaurants. 
Newsom, meanwhile, said he plans to veto the ordinance, which he called an “unwise and 


mixed reactions 
unprecedented governmental intrusion into parental responsi­bilities and private choices.” 
The mayor issued a statement after Tuesday's vote saying the city must continue to combat childhood obesity but the ordi­nance takes the wrong approach. 
“Parents, not politicians, should decide what their children eat, especially when it comes to spending their own money,” Newsom said. 
The industry, which favors self-regulation, says there is no evi­dence that San Francisco's law will halt the expanse of children's waistlines and the diseases asso­ciated with obesity, such as hypertension, diabetes and heart disease. 
McDonald's and Burger King Corp. are among 17 major food and beverage marketers who have signed on to the Children's Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative, a self-regulation effort run by the Council of Better Business Bureaus. 
Associated Press 

DALLAS — Autograph-seek­ers descended on a Dallas shopping center Tuesday as former President George W. Bush officially kicked off the release of his new memoir, receiving praise for his candor at a hometown bookstore even as his renewed defense of waterboarding as an interro­gation tactic was greeted with derision overseas. 
First in line at the Borders store about a mile from Bush's Dallas home were Terry and Tammy Jones of suburban Justin, who camped out overnight. They said when they told Bush of their wait, he said he'd sign their books “with admiration,” shaking 53­year-old Terry Jones' hand and kissing his wife's. 
“Eighteen hours for two sec­onds and a kiss on the hand,” Tammy Jones, 52, said with a smile. 
Terry Jones said he admired Bush because “when he makes a decision, he sticks with it.” 
But such steadfastness also prompted criticism Tuesday in Europe, where reports about Bush's memoir “Decision Points” focused on water­boarding. 
In an interview in The Times of London, Bush said the tactic forced the alleged 9/11 master­mind to provide information that prevented attacks in London's Heathrow Airport and Canary Wharf business district. Prime Minister David Cameron's office subsequently restated the British govern­ment's belief that waterboard­ing is illegal. Kim Howells, a former lawmaker who chaired the House of Commons' intelli­gence and security committee, expressed doubts about Bush's claim. 
In France, the Le Monde newspaper noted an “absence of regret” in Bush's defense of waterboarding. 
In a more lighthearted moment, Bush said in inter­view that aired Tuesday on “The Oprah Winfrey Show” that writing the memoir "was an easy process." 
“A lot of people don't think I can read, much less write,” he joked. 
As in the book, Bush also recounted to Winfrey the mis­takes of his presidency, saying he still feels “sick” about the fact no weapons of mass destruction were found in Iraq. His response to Hurricane Katrina could have been quicker, he said, and he acknowledged he didn't see the financial meltdown com­ing. 
Bush, however, had nothing negative to say about President Barack Obama, whom Winfrey famously supported in 2008. 
“I didn't like it when people criticized me,” Bush said. “And so you're not going to see me out there chirping away (at Obama). And I want our presi­dent to succeed. I love our country.” 
Largely out of the public view since he left office, Bush is now vigorously promoting his book, with planned appear­ances across the country this week and as the Miami Book Fair International's featured author this weekend. 
Bush even called in to con­servative commentator Rush Limbaugh's radio program Tuesday, voicing support for an extension of his administra­tion's tax cuts and denying reports he privately criticized fellow Republican John McCain's choice of Sarah Palin as his vice presidential running mate. But when asked his opinion about Arizona's con­troversial immigration legisla­tion, Bush told Limbaugh: “you're trying to get me to make news.” 
“I don't want to make news, I want to sell books of course,” Bush said laughing. 
His memoir does offer reve­lations though, including his confirmation that the target of a 2007 Israeli airstrike was a Syrian nuclear reactor and suggestion he quietly approved the action. Bush also reveals Israel first asked the U.S. to bomb the site, but his adminis­tration refused. 


The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 8 Wednesday, November 10, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The 21st 
As the clock struck midnight on Tuesday morning, my friends and I tossed confetti in the air and hoisted my friend Bear on a chair to celebrate his “Bear-mitzvah.” We’d been look­ing forward to his birthday for quite a while now because his is the last 21st birthday that our group has to celebrate, which might be our biggest event until graduation. While all birth-

Mike Gotimer 
days are special, the 21st birthday 
Assistant 
is the Holy Grail of birthdays Sports Editor because it gives you almost any legal freedom you can imagine. In the 14 months or so since my first friend turned 21, I’ve noticed that all 21st birthdays can fall into certain categories. While they all may be celebrated the same way, the actu­al time when they’re celebrated can mean a lot of different things. Here’s a short sample of everything you need to know about the 21st birthdays that will matter most to you: 
1. 
Your 21st birthday: Your 21st birthday is far and away the best out of all them because it’s most antici­pated birthday of your life other than the year you get your driver’s license. Once you turn 21, you’ll never have to look both ways before you crack open a beer again. You’re a celebrity on the night itself, and the people you cele­brate with will make sure that you have the greatest night possible. As an added bonus, you’ll never have to worry about drinking around your family ever again. 

2. 
The first 21st birthday: Every group has to have a first 21st birth­day, which is an exciting one because you realize that your day of glory is within striking distance. There can be an awkwardness factor involved, however, as you may have to throw a party that goes something like this: “Happy birthday, friend! Go buy your­self some alcohol because we can’t!” We fortunately avoided this scenario, however, because the first three 21st birthdays in our group occurred over the summer. 

3. 
The 21st birthdays between the first 21st birthday and yours: Depending on where you fall in your group’s age structure, this can be an excruciating. If you’re the youngest in your group, you may get frustrated because you’re the farthest from your own 21st birthday. Regardless, you’ll become impatient with waiting at some point, usually after the birthday immediately preceding yours. 

4. 
The last 21st birthday: This 21st birthday is probably the best one after your own. For the last one, nobody in the group can be excluded from the activities because they’re not legal to drink. As long as you drink responsi­bly, you and your friends can pretty much do whatever you want without having to worry about someone get­ting in trouble. As a result, your youngest friend’s birthday will undoubtedly have the best party because all of your friends can attend, along with some of the kids in the grade below you who were the firsts in their own group. Furthermore, your youngest friend will likely go wild because his long wait is finally over. 


The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
With the recession still roaring strong, it is time for us to evaluate what really matters in terms of prior­ities for the next few years at this University. Notre Dame is still a growing school and it is impor-Mark Easley tant to make sure that growth 
King of 
is directed in a 
Controversy 
positive manner. I think we all know what I’m about to say and you are probably agreeing to its inevitability. Notre Dame should annex Saint Mary’s. 
Why would you suggest such a hubris proposal, sir? 
There is actually much to be gained by both sides with a merger of these two historic institutions. A Notre Dame education will be accessible to more than 1,500 undergraduates. The women of Saint Mary’s will no longer be put under the oppressive thumb of draconian single-sex educa­tion. Notre Dame will gain some great new classroom buildings, dorms, another gym, more athletic fields and another dining hall (can you imagine meeting at Way Far din­ing hall for dinner? We can work on the names later). The Keenan Revue could return to O’Laughlin auditori­um. The influx of females might improve Notre Dame football recruit­ing. Saint Mary’s students can not only enjoy the dining halls on main campus again but also get access to our top notch technical degree pro­grams. Notre Dame would get the Nursing program to go along with our 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Annex SMC 
popular pre-med community and have the ability to produce the finest teachers in the country with the teaching certification program. Notre Dame students would have a chance to learn from the best college faculty members and Saint Mary’s will get all the resources Notre Dame has to offer for just a minor name change. Heck, we already share the same zip code. 
But what of the cost, Mark? 
The current Saint Mary’s College 
endowment is valued at around 100 
million dollars. By comparison, Notre 
Dame has well over 4 billion dollars 
in endowment. Factoring in the land 
and asset values of prime northern 
Indiana real estate, Notre Dame 
could easily absorb our sister school 
without significant financial detri­
ment. It’s actually a much better 
investment than anything in the stock 
market. And I’m sure the Sisters of 
Holy Cross would love that lump of 
cash in the Order’s coffers. 
But Mark, isn’t it too far away? 
Saint Mary’s really is not that far at 
all when you don’t have to walk. The 
current bus system could be 
reformed to provide an express bus 
to and from the Saint Mary’s campus 
through the road that runs by the 
grotto. It is a very common at many 
schools to have a satellite campus 
that requires a bus service. As we all 
know, main campus is pretty much 
saturated for space (unless we want­
ed to replace the Knights of 
Columbus with a Taco Bell, just kid­
ding, or am I?). The new direction to 
build will be out toward Carroll or 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“When I read a book I seem to read it with my eyes only, but now and then I come across a passage,perhaps only a phrase, which has a meaning for me, and it becomes part of me.” 
W. Somerset Maugham English dramatist 


Stepan Center. No one wants to live by Carroll (just ask people that live there) and Stepan is a historical land­mark. No, the obvious choice is to acquisition the territory across the street. 
Won’t this water down Notre Dame prestige? 
Blasphemy I say! The same high standards of acceptance will still be in effect after the merger. Over time the initial gender imbalance can also be corrected. How dare you use elit­ism as an argument (like trying to justify the takeover of something because you feel you are somehow better)! 
But, what if I just have an underly­ing and inexplicable disdain of St. Mary’s chicks? 
Shame on you. The lovely ladies across the lakes have much to offer the world. Except for the ones that will inevitably hate on me for writing this article and the ones that are glad the Keenan Revue is gone. Feel free to hate on them. 
Mark, you so crazy! 
False — everything I propose is cal­culated and well thought out. Yes we will lose a Saint Mary’s College, but the world will gain a better University of Notre Dame. Sorry Holy Cross, looks like you are getting the shaft again. Maybe next time. 
Mark Easley is a junior majoring in computer science. He can be reached at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Men are not prisoners of fate, but only prisoners of their own minds.” 
Franklin D. Roosevelt 32nd U.S. president 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, November 10, 2010 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
NTD Awareness Week 
By now, a few of you might have seen me shoving a pamphlet in your face this morn­ing outside of DeBart, shouting about NTDs and promising you a free silly band. Sorry that we were so annoying, but this week is NTD Awareness Week, and it’s my mission to get everyone on campus interested in a bunch of diseases that no one really knows about. So here goes. 
NTD stands for Neglected Tropical Diseases, a series of seven disfiguring and potentially deadly parasitic illnesses that affect 1.4 billion people around the globe. That’s more than malaria and AIDS com­bined, a number that could fill the Notre Dame stadium 17,822 times. 
These diseases are a big deal. So why has­n’t anyone heard of them? Put simply, they lack the drama of malaria and the death sentence of AIDS. NTDs kill slowly and indi­rectly. When a person contracts an NTD they contract a lifetime of drawn out suffer­ing, of chronic malnutrition, asthma, pneu­monia, cancer, blindness and disability. Some NTDs cause itching so intense it drives people mad, drives them to suicide. With others, such as Elephantiasis, tiny worms pool in the lymph nodes, swelling limbs and, in males, the scrotum, to impos­sible sizes. Some of the parasites burrow into lung tissue or the intestines, robbing victims of the breath and sustenance and leading, in the long term, to cancer and other equally horrific deaths. 
Sorry to gross you out, but here’s the kicker: all seven NTDs can be prevented, treated or cured for just 50 cents per per­son per year. It’s trite, but 50 cents really can save a life. The medications to treat these diseases have already been developed and donated by major medical suppliers. The cures are free; we just need to get the medicine where it needs to go. To me, that’s the grossest injustice. People desperately need the medication, and we don’t have the funds to get it to them. 
During NTD Awareness Week there will be various events around campus to raise money and simply inform people. Today from 7 to 10, Five Guys will donate 10 per­cent of all proceeds to ND Fighting NTDs. Thursday, come to LaFortune and support us by buying a dirt cup (use your flex points!) and Friday ND Fighting NTDs is hosting a free concert and petition signing on South Quad in front of Dillon Hall from 4 to 6:30 p.m. 
I know most of you are just as broke and stressed out as me, but small efforts can make such a huge difference in this cam­paign. Stop by LaFortune on your way to the library Thursday. Sign a petition for our politicians before dinner on Friday or visit our website (http://www.nd.edu/~ndfntds/) for more information. Our top priority is to inform people right now, because to solve a problem we’ve got to know about the prob­lem. 
Take the first step — help end the neglect. 
Eileen Lynch 
sophomore Ryan Hall Nov. 9 
UWIRE Hearing emphasizes law’s legitimacy 
The enactment of S.B. 1070 triggered protests across Arizona and received crit­icism from officials as high up as President Barack Obama. While critics claim this act will cause racial profiling and even tempt harassment of Alexandra Hispanics, regard-Bortnik less of their legal 
Arizona Daily 
status as American citizens, the act Wildcat only requests one thing: for immi­grants to carry documentation. 
On Monday, federal appellate judges held discussions that suggested they could allow Arizona to enact a highly controver­sial section of S.B. 1070. This tender sec­tion of the bill states that police officers can determine if someone they stop is in this country illegally. 
Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Carlos Bea questioned if that section alone was unconstitutional. U.S. Deputy Solicitor General Edwin Kneedler, who is representing the federal government in the hearing, responded that “‘our position is not that they’re not authorized to check with Immigration and Customs Enforcement. … ‘Our objection is that the state statute mandates it,’” according to the Arizona Daily Star. 
While this may appear as a minutia, the probability of police officers either facing resistance or refusal by those who are stopped is more likely if the state statute doesn’t mandate it. 
Other countries, such as France and Russia, require not only immigrants, but visitors as well, to always carry their doc­umentation, or risk serving time in a for­eign prison. Why should America treat its immigrants any differently? And why is there such uproar about S.B. 1070 when other countries have been operating this way for years? 
Perhaps the issue lies in the fact that America has created an image of being a country where anything goes. While being the land of opportunity defines America’s character and has served many immi­grants well as a place to rebuild, today this attitude brings a threat not only to the safety of its citizens, but to its national identity. If a country welcomes anyone who steps into it without requiring a form of initiation or assimilation, the country will lose its sense of identity and value all together. 
Although the bill may invite the harass­ment of some American citizens, one could compare that to the unpleasant air­port security all Americans endure for the safety of this country. 
S.B. 1070 is a dramatic move that sits uneasily with many Americans. Maybe it’s because enacting this bill was an anomaly 
— it made no sense with the character of America. America was never understood as a country that would exclude. 
It’s important to note, however, that Arizona is not excluding or putting fur­ther limits on how many immigrants can enter the country with measures like S.B. 1070; it is simply attempting to give its citizens, and those who immigrated legal­ly, a sense of order and safety. The policy hasn’t shut the door to America — it sim­ply requests a knock before entering. 
This article first ran in the Nov. 4 issue of the Arizona Daily Wildcat, the daily publi­cation serving the University of Arizona. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SMCurity 
Dear Saint Mary’s Security, 

In the beginning of my four years here at Saint Mary’s, I was always more than willing to give you the benefit of the doubt that you actually did some good for this campus. But slowly, I began to lose faith. The intruder on the Regina Hall roof was probably your crowning glory that solidified my doubt in your ability to keep us Saint Mary’s women safe. 
For those reading that don’t know, Regina Hall is about 250 feet away from the Security Hut, easily within a five-minute walking distance. It took security over 25 minutes to respond to this, and the man on the roof frightened the girls in the dorm and then ran away. This incident was never resolved and shook the community. 
Now, I live in Opus — the senior-only apartment complex — on the first floor. When my family and I inquired about security for the windows, we were told to go to ResLife, which had previous­ly told us to go to security. I do not blame ResLife, as this is com­pletely a security matter. Why would security try to pawn off their responsibility to another unrelated sector of the college? Maybe because they just don’t want to address it themselves. 
Today, I got a parking ticket when I ran into the clubhouse for a quick lunch. Why is it that I can leave my car for 15 minutes alone in an unmarked “illegal” spot and get a ticket, but we can’t expect an intruder to be apprehended with in the same time frame? This doesn’t make much sense to me. 
Please get off of your golf carts when the campus needs you, and stop preying on parked cars. Chances are that the student owning the car hasn’t eaten for a while, unlike yourselves. Your golf cart seats have an indelible mark from your navy blue pants, and your reputation for ignoring the needs of the Saint Mary’s women have made an equally indelible mark upon our minds. 
Julie Hagopian 
senior 
Opus Hall 
Nov. 9 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 

Scene

The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, November 10, 2010 page 11 

On campus 
What: “Boy Gets Girl” by RebeccaGilman Where: Philbin Theater at the Debartolo Performing Arts CenterWhen: Nov. 11, 12, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 at 10 p.m. and Nov. 14 and21 at 2:30 p.m.How much: $10 for students, $12 for faculty and staff, $15 for every­one else Learn more: Call (574) 631-2800or visit performingarts.nd.edu 
By ANKUR CHAWLA 
Scene Writer 
Beginning Thursday, the Notre Dame Department of Film, Television and Theatre will per­form Rebecca Gilman’s “Boy Gets Girl,” originally produced by Chicago’s Goodman Theatre. 
The play, which follows the life of Theresa, a successful reporter in a big city, quickly spread around the world because of its modern take on dating and romantic pursuit. 
Theresa is set up on a blind date with Tony, who seems nice enough but eventually becomes persistent and creepy, even after the two don’t hit it off. Left with the dilemma of how to escape his ever-present shadow, Theresa is faced with the possibility of losing everything dear to her: her home, her job and even her identity. 

“Boy Gets Girl” is sure to become a classic for identifying women’s issues and portraying dating in the 21st century. The play is an earnest exploration into the effects of stalking and the helplessness felt by the vic­tims. 
According to the department’s Outreach Specialist Chris Sopczynski, the play has already gained attention in the South Bend community. 
“There has been a very strong interest by both on and off cam­pus organizations who address women and violence,” Sopczynski said. 
Siiri Scott, who previously directed shows such as “Big Love” for FTT, helms this produc­tion. 
Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 

CREW 

Director: Siiri Scott Producer/Lighting Design: Kevin Dreyer Stage Manager: Jennifer Sowinski Set Design: Marcus Stephens Costume Design: Richard E. Donnelly Technical Direction: C. Kenneth Cole 
CAST 

Theresa Bedell: Kim Gaughan Tony: Chris Stare Howard Siegel: Kevin Argus Mercer Stevens: Chris Silvestri Harriet: Sloan Thacker Det. Madeline Beck: Lucy Lavely Les Kennkat: Brian Davenport 

Photos courtesy of Richard E. Donnelly 
Junior Kim Gaughan (above, left), sophomore Chris Silvestri and junior Sloan Thacker rehearse scenes in the Department of Film, Television and Theatre’s production of “Boy Gets Girl.” 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, November 10, 2010 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Injuries complicate Purdue quarterback situation 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Injuries have forced Purdue to use three different starting quarterbacks this season, and the Boilermakers aren’t sure who will get the job this week. 
Coach Danny Hope expects true freshman Sean Robinson to make his second career start against Michigan on Saturday after he got the nod for last Saturday’s 34-13 loss to Wisconsin. He led the Boilermakers to a 10-6 halftime lead, but threw three intercep­tions in the second half, includ­ing one which was returned for a touchdown. 
Robinson is expected again to fill in for Rob Henry, a redshirt freshman who led the Boilermakers to two conference wins before he cut a finger on his right hand against Ohio State. Robinson has gotten most of the work the past two weeks. 
Hope said Robinson has improved since he stepped in against Illinois two games ago, when Henry started but couldn’t finish. Robinson completed 7 of 20 passes for 52 yards against Illinois in a 44-10 loss, then con­nected on 19 of 38 passes for 141 yards and a touchdown against Wisconsin. 
“I thought he played a lot bet­ter Saturday, and certainly has a lot of room for improvement,” Hope said. “But I thought he made a significant amount of progress from when he came into the game versus Illinois compared to how he started the game off against Wisconsin this past weekend.” 
Robert Marve entered the sea­son as the starter. Caleb TerBush was the backup, and Henry was No. 3. TerBush was declared academically ineligible, Marve went down for the season with a knee injury and Henry got hurt, leaving Robinson as the starter. 
Hope said Robinson had better command of the offense against Wisconsin. 
“There are some things that he did that the normal fan doesn’t see,” Hope said. “He got us into some really good checks. We had some run plays that were called, and they (Wisconsin) had some fronts that weren’t all that good to run the plays against. And Sean got us out of some bad run plays and into some good plays.” 
Receiver and former quarter­back Justin Siller will practice at quarterback this week if he has recovered from a foot injury. He started three games at quarter­back in 2008, and led the Boilermakers to a 48-42 win over Michigan in his first start. That week, he was the Big Ten’s offensive co-player of the week after passing for 266 yards and three touchdowns and running for 77 yards and another score. He was a starting receiver this season, but has missed the past five games. 
“How effective he can be right now or not, we’re not really sure because he still can’t run full speed,” Hope said. “He’s still a ways away in that aspect.” 
Hope is unsure if Henry or Siller will be able to play at all. 
“They weren’t able to go on Saturday, and that was only a couple of days ago,” Hope said. “I don’t know how much their status has changed since then. Both did a little bit on Saturday, but were a long way away from full speed. 
Walk-on Skyler Titus has moved up to No. 2 on the depth chart at quarterback. Hope doesn’t expect the redshirt freshman to play, but he will get enough repetitions in practice this week to be ready if needed. 
“You’re going to put him in sit­uations that you think he can be successful in and not open the whole gamut of the playbook at him at one time,” Hope said. “We always have a package or a plan for every quarterback that we think has a chance to play in the game. If he got to where he was the only quarterback he had left, you’d have to expand that package. But right now, we have him prepared to go in the game and execute.” 


NFL 

Change in Titans offense could help Johnson break loose 
Associated Press  help, seeing the receiver as the playmaker to help him find more  Johnson has reeled off nice runs but nothing like 2009 when  across the field and up the side­line 29 yards for a TD.  agree. “It should definitely help our  
NASHVILLE, Tenn.  — Chris  room to run.  he was The Associated Press  Tennessee had been trying to  offense, especially in the running  
Johnson isn’t close to being on  “I know for a fact they can’t  NFL Offensive Player of the Year.  give defenses other players to  game, being able to take away  
pace for his stated goal of 2,500  put all those guys in the box with  That’s when he became the first  think about and take advantage  some extra guys in the box from  
yards rushing this season nor  that guy out there,” Johnson  player in league history to rush  of the one-on-one coverage of  C.J.,” left tackle Michael Roos  
the 2,000 yards he had last sea- said.  for three touchdowns of 85 yards  their receivers. Kenny Britt had  said.  
son.  Coach Jeff Fisher is a bit more  or  longer in  a  a  career  day  How much remains to be seen.  
The Tennessee running back,  reserved on how much adding  career, and he  with 225 yards  Moss joins the NFL’s highest- 
hampered by a sore thigh the past month, said he’s really not focused on that 2,500-yard goal  the receiver with 153 career touchdown receptions helps the run game.  did it all in a sin­gle season. His longest TD  “If you’re going to get some rotation to  receiving on Oct. 24 against P h i l a d e l p h i a ,  scoring offense with the Titans averaging 28 points. Moss won’t be on the field for 60 or 70 plays  
right now. He’s still the NFL’s fifth-leading rusher with 721 yards, which hasn’t been easy with opponents worried about stopping him at all costs. “We’re 5-3 and winning,” Johnson said. “We’re not having  “That remains to be seen. If you’re going to get some rotation to Randy, then they eliminate the unblocked defender in the box and that certainly helps,” Fisher said. Johnson and the Titans’ run  run this season was a 76-yarder in the opener against Oakland. An 85-yarder in a loss to Pittsburgh in  Randy, then they eliminate the unblocked defender in the box that certainly helps.”  and Nate Washington had his best day as a pro with 117 yards in San Diego. T h e n  per game, especially not early as he learns the offense. Fisher said it wouldn’t be fair to put Moss out on third down when offen­sive coordinator Mike Heimerdinger can call anything from the playbook.  
a losing season. I can’t really come in here very frustrated. I  game pales when compared to last year. The Titans rank 10th in  Week erased  2 was by a  Jeff Fisher  M i n n e s o t a waived Moss,  Still, the Titans installed Moss immediately as a starter oppo­ 
know we could be way better  the NFL, averaging 123 yards.  holding penalty.  Titans head coach  the  6-foot-4  site Nate Washington while Britt  
than we are in the run game. I  It’s a big drop from second a  Since  then,  receiver  who  heals from a right hamstring  
know we still have time to fix  year ago when Johnson ran for  Johnson hasn’t  ranks fifth with  injury that will keep him out at  
this. Hopefully, by the end of the  2,006 yards as just the sixth man  run for longer than 42 yards, not  14,778 yards receiving, and only  least against Miami. That should  
year, we’ll be OK.”  in NFL history to reach that  with defenses stacked up to stop  Hall of Fame receiver Jerry Rice  only help with the Dolphins  
Now Johnson has had a bye  mark.  him. He hasn’t run for more than  has more TD catches (197). The  ranked 16th against the run, giv­ 
week to rest up his sore thigh,  His preseason boast that he  66 yards in the past two games.  Titans, the only NFL team to put  ing up  an  average of 107.1  
and he also will have new addi­ still  wanted  to  top  Eric  His longest  run  in the last  in a claim, won him off waivers  yards.  
tion Randy Moss on the field  Dickerson’s league rushing mark  game, a 33-25 loss at San Diego,  in a move Fisher says was no  With eight games left, Fisher is  
when the Titans visit Miami (4-4)  of 2,105 yards and run to 2,500  came when Johnson ran to his  risk at all.  expecting at least a couple long  
on Sunday.  simply made him an even bigger  right and found a wall of defend- The  Titans,  tied  with  TD runs out of Johnson this sea- 
Johnson believes Moss will  target.  ers. He ran all the way back  Indianapolis atop the AFC South,  son.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

If you or someone you care about doughy... I dunno. Maybe it was my Narrator: Buster was finding himself Michael: Can't a guy call his mother has been sexually assaulted, we fault. Maybe. Maybe I just ignored right at home. pretty without it seeming strange?FOR SALE PERSONAL can help. the guy. Buster: Oh, my God! I used to have For more information, visit Notre ——————————————— a shirt just like that. Buster: Amen. And how about that House for sale on Angela. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Dame's website: Lucille 2: Buster, this is exactly why little piece of tail on her? Cayyyute! 
Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has http://csap.nd.edu. our relationship does not work. Narrator: It was Buster’s old shirt. 2.5K sq ft home. many resources in place to assist ——————————————— Buster: Our relationship doesn't Lucille had given it to Lupe. Michael: I've opened a door here 4BR 3.5BA. you. If you or someone you love George Sr: Maybe it was the eleven work? that I regret. Furniture ?, needs confidential support or assis-months he spent in the womb. The Lucille 2: No, not as long as you Buster: And the hand chair! I had fully redone. tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at doctor said there were claw marks keep getting me all mixed up with one in my room! I wonder where Lucille: Oh, he's just talking about $365K 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. on the walls of her uterus. But he your mother. that went. his stupid turtle. 
was her "miracle baby." And I — I Buster: It is exactly the opposite. 574-232-2211 For more information, visit ND's was just too burnt out on raising I'm leaving my mother for you. Narrator: It went right there. Buster: She has a name, Mother, 
website at: http://pregnancysup-you guys to care. So ... he turned You're replacing my mother. Buster: I'd never thought I'd miss a On web at 610.sbrp.us port@nd.edu. out a little soft, you know... a little Lucille 2: Well, that's healthy. hand so much. And it's Mother. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Wednesday, November 10, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
YOUTUBE 

Trick play earns school recognition 


Associated Press 
CORPUS CHRISTI, Texas — Driscoll Middle School’s “penalty play” has become an Internet sensation. 
Quarterback Jason Garza pulled off the ingenious trick play in Saturday’s city champi­onship game that’s triggered a frenzy of national media atten­tion. The video has generated more than 3.5 million hits on YouTube and a barrage of calls to the tiny school, enroll­ment 610, and to Jacqueline Ortiz, Garza’s mother. 
“It’s been wild,” she said in a phone interview Tuesday. “Absolutely crazy.” 
Coach Art Rodriguez said the Rangers were just looking for some offense, pinned at their own 30-yard line and trailing Wynn Seale 6-0 with four min­utes left in the game. He and assistant coach John De Los Santos decided that it was finally time to unveil a play De Los Santos remembered run­ning when he played quarter­back for his middle school team in 1987. 
It fizzled then, when an alert safety tackled him. 
This time, it worked to per­fection. 
The play was set in motion before the actual snap. Garza barked out a long snap count, and got Wynn Seale’s defen­sive line to jump offsides. The referee marked off 5 yards, and Garza returned to the line. 
And then Garza and the Rangers sprang their ruse. 
De Los Santos yelled out that referees needed to mark off 5 more yards for the offside penalty, and he told Garza to get the ball and do it himself. Garza nonchalantly asked cen­ter John Porter to hand him the ball over his shoulder — a legal snap — and then took five casual steps through the unaware Wynn Seale defense. 
Driscoll’s offensive linemen started yelling at Garza in mock panic, asking him what he was doing — while all stayed in their stances. 
Garza took off for the end zone, outrunning a safety for the tying touchdown. 
“It looks beautiful,” Rodriguez said. “He could’ve gotten tackled or somebody would’ve picked it up really fast. It just so happened that everybody was just kind of looking around, and it looks hilarious on the video.” 
Ortiz said the parents in the crowd were as confused as Wynn Seale’s defense — and Ortiz was ready to bury her head in shame. 
“The first thing I thought was, ‘Oh, man, the coach is going to be so mad at you. What are you doing?’” she said. “But there were no flags, no nothing. He took off run­ning, so then everyone was like, ‘Run! Run! Go! Go!’” 
The Rangers have been practicing the play for weeks and just needed a chance to use it. 
“It’s a play-acting thing, everybody is acting out in it,” Rodriguez said. “The whole team knows about it. And then once Jason starts marking off the steps, he looks for day­light. That’s it.” 
Two weeks ago, Ortiz was almost ready to pull her son off the team after two teachers told her his grades were slip­ping. Rodriguez swayed her to reconsider, but when the school called Ortiz on Monday, she assumed the worst. 
“I was like, ‘Oh, man, what did he do now?’” Ortiz said. “The woman said, ‘No, you need to come over here now. There are TV stations inter­viewing him, and they’re call­ing us from Fox and CNN. You need to come over and sign some paperwork to OK the interviews and stuff.’” 
For all the buzz it’s generat­ed, the play didn’t pay off: Driscoll botched the 2-point conversion and the game ended in a 6-6 tie. Without overtime, Wynn Seale was awarded the championship because of a 2-1 advantage in red-zone penetrations, one of the league’s tiebreakers. 
Rodriguez, who’s worked in the city’s school district for 31 years, said the impact of the play has far outweighed the outcome of the game. 
“We lost the championship, but we’re getting a lot of pub­licity of this,” Rodriguez said. “It’s a positive thing for the school.” 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, November 10, 2010 
NFL 

Sibling coaches face off Sunday in Cleveland 
“Never even noticed the lan-bottom rung. Rob’s coaching 
Associated Press 
guage but then I heard all the stops included Western 
CLEVELAND — Born five min-criticism,” Rob cracked. “I’m Kentucky, Tennessee State and utes apart, Rex and Rob Ryan just glad they weren’t here in Hutchinson (Kan.) Community are inseparable. They’ve spent Cleveland.” College. Rex was at Eastern a lifetime together, playing, Despite their dad’s wishes Kentucky, New Mexico laughing, loving and fighting — that they pursue another pro-Highlands and Morehead State. sometimes with each other and fession, the Ryans followed him Sure, they had the advantage often against anyone foolish into coaching. When Buddy of a name known throughout enough to take them on. Ryan, whose “46” scheme coaching, but the Ryans worked 
They never lost. changed the way defense is hard, were handed nothing and 
“I don’t think there is any pair played in the NFL, coached in are now regarded as two of the of brothers closer than we are,” Philadelphia, he urged his sons game’s best minds. Rob Ryan said. “We had our to accept jobs with a food serv-When Rex Ryan was hired as own language when we were ice business at the airport. the Jets’ coach after being kids growing up. If you fought Buddy Ryan learned the hard passed over several teams, no one of us you had to be real way that the grueling hours and one was prouder than Rob, who tough because you had to fight constant travel would take a toll believes his brother’s success both of us. We found a way to on his personal life. He and his may help him land his dream win.” wife, Doris, split when the boys job. 

The brothers Ryan, raised by were young. He wanted his sons “I hope it does,” he said. their famous father Buddy to be to follow a different path. Rex Ryan doesn’t pull any honest, straightforward and to “They didn’t listen,” Buddy punches, and his shoot-from­rush the heck out of the quar-Ryan said over the phone from the-hip style has endeared him terback, will renew their sibling his horse farm in Kentucky. to New York’s media, fans and their pro head-to-head ball diamond. rivalry Sunday when Rex leads The Ryan brothers knew their players. Rob Ryan is no differ-matchups. However, this install-The Ryans were facing a top his New York Jets into calling. ent, and it wasn’t surprising to ment of the “Buddy Bowl” will pitcher, who struck out Rex and Cleveland to take on a Browns “We’re football coaches,” Rob see the Browns dump Gatorade be the first with one of the then hit Rob in the middle of defense coached by Rob. said. “At one time, my whole after a recent upset of New Ryans as an NFL head coach. the back. 
The days leading to the game goal was just to be able to have Orleans. Buddy will be there. “I hit his dad before with a will be filled with meetings, my own trailer, live in that and They are alike and likable. “It’s going to be a great fungo bat, so the kid paid me practices, and, of course, some coach football. That was my But they’re also demanding. game,” the 76-year-old father back,” Rob said matter-of-factly. serious trash talking over the life’s ambition. That’s how we Step out of line, and there are said. “They’re both great coach-The next time up, Rex fell phone. look at things. We’ve always consequences. That’s how the es and I know they’re going to behind 0-2 in the count and 
“It’s going to be brutal,” Rex been destined to be football Ryans were taught. do everything they can to beat called timeout. Ryan said. “I’m sure we’ll talk coaches.” “We coach men’s football and the other.” “He was only playing with one about each other’s children, After their parents divorced, the best thing to do is be your-Amid the firings and hirings contact lens,” Rob said. “So he wives, whatever.” Rob and Rex lived with their self with all the flaws you that come with life as a coach, goes, ‘Rob give me your left 
On Tuesday, Rob Ryan saw a mother in Toronto, where the have,” Rob said. “People can try Buddy Ryan never had to worry contact.’ I give it to him and he photograph of himself, Browns Ryans’ rough-around-the-edges to sugar coat things, but I about uprooting Rex and Rob. plucks it in his eye and goes up coach Eric Mangini and rookie reputations were developed believe what Rex does best is he “We had to move a lot,” the and smashes a home run. I quarterback Colt McCoy that during brutal backyard football is direct with his players. He elder Ryan said. “The great think the thing is still going. had blow darts sticking out of games with their older brother, tells them the truth, not neces-thing is that every time we They found it in Cuba some-their images. Jim, now an attorney in St. sarily what they want to hear moved they knew their best where. 
“He drew first blood,” Rob Louis. but it’s the truth. My father friend was coming with them. “He circles the bases and said of his twin. “We are going The Ryans played basketball, always installed that in us, Rex and Rob were always comes in with a big smile on his to have some retaliatory reac-hockey and baseball — all with always be honest.” together.” face and goes, ‘Do you want tions coming up later in the reckless abandon. Trouble was, Sunday’s game will be at least Of all the wild stories about that contact back?’ I’m like, week.” they were not model students or the seventh with the Ryans on the Ryans — and there are Nah, you can keep it. I think 
But beyond the practical jokes citizens. They needed discipline. opposite sidelines, with Rob dozens — Rob said one of Rex’s that was our best story right and typical brother vs. brother So, in seventh grade they were holding a 3-0 lead over Rex in favorites happened on a base-there.” shenanigans, the Ryan boys sent to Minnesota to live with have an unbreakable bond. their dad, then coaching the They talk daily, share a sweet Vikings’ famed “Purple People tooth and sufficient stomachs, Eaters” defense. and are prone to drop an exple-“The Ryans were kind of run­tive or two into almost any con-ning roughshod on Canada, so versation. we had to move,” Rob said. 
Rex Ryan was criticized for “Our lives kind of changed his profanity during HBO’s when we moved in with my “Hard Knocks” series this sum-father, that’s for sure.” mer. While his mother threat-They began as ballboys, and ened to wash his mouth with after playing in college, they soap, his brother wasn’t offend-began a slow climb up the ed. coaching ladder — from the 




Wednesday, November 10, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
CLUB SPORTS 

Women’s hockey drops four over weekend 
a 176.4 pin average on the sec-Brunner sitting from stroke to Senior captain Megan Franke Paul Mickan, Mike Todisco, 
Special to The Observer 

ond day. Armani Sutton fought bow, placed fifth. The third var-provided strong leadership on Luke Pardue, Justin Campbell 
The Women’s Ice Hockey club through the short, dry oil condi-sity eight, coxed by Lauren and off the field, and senior and Casey O’Meilia, also com-opened play this weekend, play-tions to average 149.4 and Mach, with Curtis Kovaleski, Rachel Newkirk notched a key peted. ing four games in a little more 147.4. Finally, Tom Simunek Jim Ropa, John Repine, Jack defensive stop on Saturday. The Playing a spot higher on the than 24 hours. The team played contributed to the success with Bolton, John Clohisy, Matt team’s rookies stepped up and roster due to Ryan Gisriel’s ill-the Illinois Friday night and averages of 147 and 134 pins in Planell, Wes Horton and Chris persevered through the tough ness, the team had a challeng-Saturday morning, and the his first collegiate tournament. Connair sitting from stroke to conditions, with freshman ing and competitive tournament Flash from Chicago on Saturday The Irish will be in action bow, placed 10th overall. Devlin Lynch playing hard despite the losing record. night and Sunday morning. next on Nov. 20-21 The next event for the Irish defense and freshman Molly Hurley stood out by playing at 
The inexperience playing was the novice 8+ early in the Carmona making solid cuts. the No. 1 spot despite this being together showed as they lost all Men’s Volleyball afternoon. The first novice Notre Dame’s Y team also his first competition. Mickan four games, but the team The Notre Dame men’s volley-eight, coxed by Kate von gained a lot of experience and posted a win (3-1) against improved throughout the week-ball team resumed play on Hoffmann, with Sean worked on their team chemistry Illinois-Springfield and consis­end. The defense played well all Sunday in an exhibition match Armbruster, John Cotter, throughout the weekend. They tently played hard. Todisco dis-weekend, and even added to against Grand Valley State at Thomas Catalano, Zach Weber, struggled in their first two played impressive effort, nearly the club’s scoring, while stand-the Purcell Pavilion. The Irish Matt Rhodes, Nick Prevete, Alec games on Saturday against Ohio returning to beat his Denison ing up to a barrage of shots. dominated the match, winning McDonel and Cal Belden sitting State and Wooster, but saw a lot opponent after going down 2-0. Gina Storti debuted in the net 3-0 (25-18, 25-22, 25-23) and from stroke to bow, placed first of improvement in their third Pardue, Campbell, and O’Meilia for the first time, with only a playing every player on the ros-of the 20 boats in the event with game, a close loss to Indiana. played solidly in the bottom of few practices before her strong ter. a time of 16:56.84, defeating The day ended in an 11-4 victo-the ladder but their efforts did-showing. The playing time Notre Dame Virginia Tech and Ohio State, ry over John Carroll in which n’t lead to wins. 
The Irish dropped the first earned last tournament clearly who placed 2nd and 3rd, every cutter scored at least one Returning members Dennis game against the Illini, 2-0. The showed against the Lakers, as respectively. point. On Sunday morning, the Grabowski, Kenneth Schlax and next morning, Notre Dame even the freshmen stepped up The second novice eight Y team played an extremely Eric Huang brought their expe­almost overtook the Illini before and played fearlessly. Freshmen placed fourth overall. Coxed by close game with Syracuse, but rience to the court and tried to giving up a late goal and losing Liam Gallagher and Ronnie Hope Dubuque, with Adam eventually lost 9-6. Senior cap-lead by example. Huang, mov­4-3. Upperclassmen Kristin Seman made their Irish debuts, Joslyn, Anthony Krenselewski, tain Molly Thompson led the ing up five spots from nationals Hepburn, Cassie Kral and each contributing to the victory. Matt Kent, Steven Froelich, Jeff team by example with her great last year, was the highlight the Veronica Ryan scored the The Irish have a break in the McLean, Curtis Kovaleski, defense and sophomore Allie match against the Illini with his team’s goals. schedule, and will play, at the Justin Pellino and Grant Tobin Hawkins provided strong in-effort in the final game. Schlax 
Later that night, the Irish earliest, Dec. 4 in a possible sitting stroke to bow, the crew cuts and clutch catches. clinched the victory over dropped another close game, 4-home tournament. finished in 18:07.76. Freshmen Kelsey Fink and Springfield in a five-game 2, to The Flash, a veteran group The collegiate 4+ was the Taylor Roberts also adapted marathon winning 3-2 in an from Chicago. Upperclassman Men’s Rowing final event of the day. The first quickly to the rigors of tourna-extended final game. Grabowski Gillian Allsup scored her first The men’s rowing club trav-varsity four, coxed by Greg ment play and made great cuts showed exemplary spirit in his goal of the season in the second eled to Fairfax Station, Va., this Obee, with Garrett Campbell, all weekend. matches against Springfield and period, less than a minute after weekend, to compete in the Greg Flood, Sean Gibbons and Fighting snow, mud and a Kenyon, sticking with his oppo­freshman Lauren Miller scored Head of the Occoquan Regatta. Michael Wagner sitting stroke competitive field, the two Notre nents but ultimately falling in her first goal. The next morning The club, featuring three varsi-to bow, placed first overall out Dame men’s ultimate Frisbee competition. the Irish fell again to the Flash ty eight boats, three varsity four 30 boats in the event with a teams finished with 3-3 by the identical 4-2 score. boats and two novice eight time of 16:30.38. records. The Notre Dame X Sailing Kristin Hepburn ripped the nets boats, dominated the competi-The second varsity four, coxed team, led by captain Michael Notre Dame finished seventh for a pair of Irish goals. tion, winning the collegiate 8+, by Rebecca Holmberg, with Della Penna, placed eighth out among eight teams at a race 
novice 8+, and collegiate 4+ Charlie Janini, Brent of 20 teams with wins over Case hosted by Wisconsin over the Bowling events. Shawcross, Mike Benvenuti and Western, Kent State and weekend. Skippers for the Irish 
The Notre Dame bowling The collegiate 8+ was the first Tim Parks sitting stroke to bow, Eastern Michigan in pool play, included Nathaniel Walden, team competed in two confer-event of the regatta Saturday placed second overall with a the last of which was a tight 13-Emily Golden, Jeff Miller and ence tournaments over the past morning, and the Irish got off to time of 17:28.17. The third var-11 win. Kevin Condit. The boats were weekend. The club finished a quick start. The first varsity sity four placed fifth overall. The game against the Eagles crewed by Ali Donahue, Kevin 34th and 29th in a pair of eight, coxed by Rebecca Gordon Stanton coxed the crew, began with the two teams trad-Condit, Natalie Fang, Tony American Heartland Conference Holmberg, with Garrett with Kevin Quigley, Graham ing points until just before half Michuda and Maria Skorcz. showdowns. Led by co-presi-Campbell, Tim Parks, Sean Boechler, Kurt Krautmann and when the Irish were able to Wisconsin won the race, fol-dent Drew Crail, the Irish post-Gibbons, Greg Flood, Mike Mark Kettler sitting stroke to score a break and take a 7-5 lowed by Northwestern, ed their highest finishes in the Benvenuti, Brent Shawcross, bow. lead into halftime. Coming out Michigan, Wisconsin, Ohio past few years within confer-Charlie Janini and Michael The club will finish their fall of the intermission, Notre Dame State, Minnesota, Notre Dame, ence action. Wagner sitting stroke to bow, racing season with a scrimmage was able to rattle off four con-and Chicago. 
Over the two tournaments, placed first of the 17 boats in at Grand Valley State next secutive points to take a com-Crail placed in the top 100 each the event with a time of weekend. manding lead. Eastern Men’s Rugby day, averaging 165.8 and 183.4 15:48.27. Michigan rallied, but their Despite the cold weather, bit-pins. Fellow co-president The second varsity eight, Ultimate Frisbee comeback attempt fell short as ing winds and first snowfall of Richard Skelton battled through coxed by Christopher Bennett, The Notre Dame women’s Notre Dame held on for the vic-the year in South Bend, Ind., pain to average 153.2 and with Cliff Roberts, Mark Kettler, ultimate Frisbee club traveled tory. The game was character-this weekend, Notre Dame 
146.8 on the two days. Mike Kurt Krautmann, Graham to Cleveland, Ohio, over the ized by numerous deep looks men’s rugby took on rivals Ohio Murray recovered from a rough Boechler, Brian Appleton, David past weekend for the from Della Penna and seniors State on McGlinn Fields this first day average of 141 to post Link, Kevin Quigley and Phil Northcoast Tournament against Tim Powers and Pat Kozak to weekend for the final game of 
eight other teams from the sophomores Jonathan Koch, the fall season. region. Zack Woodruff and Eric Bens. Early in the first half, the 
In an effort to provide more Junior Hans Helland helped to Irish took advantage of their playing time, the team split spark the early second half run opponent’s intensity by launch-evenly into an X and a Y squad, with an impressive defensive ing a kick into the corner of the only team in the tourna-stop against an Eastern OSU’s territory. The kick was ment to do so. 30-degree tem-Michigan cutter. The win pro-recovered by senior Alex peratures and light snowfall pelled Notre Dame’s X team to Macomber and placed down for throughout the weekend added a three-way tie at 3-1 atop Pool the first Irish try of the game. to the difficulty of the tourna-C. After coming second in the Sean Mitchell had the next ment, but both the X and Y point differential tiebreaker, the scoring chance for the Irish, teams were able to fight team lost both bracketed games when he intercepted a pass and through the conditions and play to Wooster and Ohio Wesleyan put Notre Dame up 14-0. well throughout the weekend. Alumni. The two teams traded penalty 
Notre Dame’s X team began The Notre Dame Y team, cap-kicks for a halftime score of 17­with the weekend with a tough tained by Justin Browne, fin-3.The second half was even loss to eventual champion and ished third in their pool with a more aggressive than the first, host team Case Western, but 2-2 record with wins over with both teams laying hit after bounced right back to a decisive Youngstown State and West hit on the opposing teams. 8-3 win over West Virginia. Virginia, then defeated Ohio However, after another 40 min-Although they suffered a close Wesleyan before falling to Ohio utes of action, the Irish loss to Oberlin, a forfeit by State to finish 10th on the emerged victorious with a final Syracuse in the final game on weekend. score of 27-13. Saturday allowed the team to The B-side game was also a go 2-2 on the day and hold seed Squash very physical game, with OSU in their pool. The Notre Dame squash Club attempting to steal the final win 
After another forfeit on competed at the Mid-America away from an undefeated Irish Sunday morning by John Round Robin Tournament at B-side. Notre Dame’s depth Carroll University, the Irish X Kenyon College over the week-appeared to be far superior to squad played their most excit-end, posting a 1-3 record. The that of Ohio State, and the ing game of the weekend Irish defeated the University of Buckeyes team looked winded against Syracuse. After a some-Illinois-Springfield 5-4, but fell halfway through the second what slow start, the team found to Kenyon, Denison and the half. Notre Dame freshmen led its rhythm and was able to University of Illinois-the way to a 24-10 victory over defeat Syracuse 9-8, giving Urbana/Champaign 9-0. Six the Ohio State B-side to cap the Notre Dame’s X team a seventh team members that have never end of an undefeated season for place finish in the tournament. before traveled, Brian Hurley, the Irish. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, November 10, 2010 
NHL 

Spezza’s two goals extend Senators’ win streak 
Surprise scorers on both sides not enough to stop Capitals from defeating Rangers for fourth straight time 
that featured surprise goal-Before the surprise wore off, 
Associated Press 
scorers on both sides, the the crowd witnessed another 
Jason Spezza scored two Capitals beat the Rangers for shocking goal. This one was a goals and the Ottawa Senators the fourth consecutive time. pleasant surprise for fans of the extended their winning streak Washington is 9-1-1 in its last home team. to four straight with a 5-2 vic-11 against New York and 4-0-1 Sloan had the puck bounce tory over the Atlanta Thrashers at Madison Square Garden over past him at the right point, and on Tuesday night. three seasons. Boogaard tracked it down and 
Senators goalie Brian Elliott, Capitals defenseman Mike skated alone into the making his 11th straight start, Green and forward Alexander Washington zone. When he stopped 35 shots. Chris Neil Semin both had four-game goal reached the left circle, the and Jesse Winchester score streaks snapped, but fighting forward unleash a slap their first goals of the season, Washington got plenty of shot similar to Erskine's and and Sergei Gonchar also scored offense from Brooks Laich, beat goalie Michal Neuvirth for Ottawa (8-6-1). John Erskine, and Mike Knuble. over his right shoulder 41 sec-
Andrew Ladd and Anthony Laich added his second into an onds later to make it 3-2. Stewart scored power-play empty net with 5.6 seconds left. Boogaard, who has three goals for the Thrashers (6-6-3). Brian Boyle, who had never goals and 565 penalty minutes 
Atlanta's Chris Mason start-scored more than four goals in in 268 career games, scored for ed, but was pulled after allow-a season, had two to raise his the first time since Jan. 7, ing four goals on 18 shots. season total to seven, and 2006, at Anaheim while playing Ondrej Pavelec allowed one Rangers enforcer Derek for Minnesota. goal on 11 shots. Boogaard netted his first in The first period was particu-
The Thrashers started strong, nearly five years, but it wasn't larly rough and chippy consid­scoring a power-play goal 4 enough. New York squandered ering these teams were meet-minutes into the first, but three one-goal leads and lost ing for the first time this sea-struggled for much of the for the third time in four son. remainder of the game. games. The Rangers (7-7-1) are It started early when uncom-

Ottawa tied it midway 2-5-1 at home. mon fighters, Washington through the period as Spezza Hendricks, who earlier had a defenseman Mike Green and beat Mason with a quick shot knee-on-knee collision with Rangers forward Brandon from the left side for his first extended the Lightning's shortside. Just over four min-Rangers defenseman Steve Dubinsky dropped the gloves goal. advantage to 4-0 with his 13th utes later the Senators took the Eminger, took a crisp back-and removed their helmets at Vancouver, which entered goal this season with 14:14 lead with a power-play goal. handed pass near the right post 5:17 deep in the New York with a league-high 29.4 percent remaining in the third. Ellis Spezza won the draw and from Matt Bradley and snapped zone. Dubinsky stalked the success rate on the power play, stopped 28 shots, including a dropped it to Erik Karlsson who a shot past goalie Henrik retreating Green to the other went 0 for 4 with the man pair of in-close chances by fed Gonchar for a one-timer Lundqvist at 7:53 for the win-side of the zone before they got advantage. Tyler Bozak with just under two past Mason. ner. together and exchanged punch-minutes to play in the second. 
Atlanta's best chance came Knuble got Washington even es. Lightning 4, Maple Leafs 0 Nate Thompson and Dominic late in the first as Rich Peverley for the third time when he Boyle scored twice around Steven Stamkos scored two Moore also scored for the caught Gonchar flat footed, but cleaned up a rebound for a goal Laich's fourth goal. The period goals, Dan Ellis had his second Lightning, who stopped a three-his shot caught the post and the after a thrilling rush up ice by featured 25 shots and 28 penal-shutout of the season and the game losing skid. Senators were able to clear the Alex Ovechkin shortly after a ty minutes. Boyle made it 1-0 at Tampa Bay Lightning handed The Maple Leafs have been puck as it lay in the crease. Capitals power play ended mid-4:02, Laich tied it on a power the Toronto Maple Leafs their outscored 19-8 — including 
Neil picked up his first of the way through the second. play at 8:52, and Boyle con-sixth straight loss with a 4-0 being shutout three times — season early in the second and Ovechkin glided past Sean nected again during a Rangers victory Tuesday night. during a six-game skid. Toronto then Winchester made it 4-1 as Avery as he surged into the advantage at 12:56 to make it Stamkos scored the first goal also has just one win in its last he jammed the puck through New York end and then made 2-1. of the game during the first and nine games. traffic in the crease. his way around lunging Boyle has scored three times 
Elliott's best save of the peri-defenseman Marc Staal before in three games. od came after Winchester's shoving the puck on net. clearing attempt deflected off Lundqvist got his stick on it, but Canadiens 2, Canucks 0 Phillips' skate right to the directed it in front right to Carey Price made 35 saves Senators' goalie. Knuble, who scored into an for his second shutout and the 
Spezza picked up his second open net at 9:18. Montreal Canadiens ended goal of the night on the power Until then, the period was Vancouver's six-game winning play in the opening minutes of dominated by the most unlikeli-streak with a 2-0 victory over the third period. The Thrashers est of goal scorers. the Canucks on Tuesday night. replied with a power-play goal Erskine made it 2-all with his Andrei Markov and Roman as Stewart was left alone in first goal in 32 games, dating to Hamrlik scored for Montreal, front and caught Elliott moving. Jan. 26, but only his eighth in which had lost three of four. 
338 NHL games. Hendricks Price recorded his sixth Capitals 5, Rangers 3 won an offensive zone faceoff career shutout, including a 19­
Matt Hendricks' third-period back to Tyler Sloan, who moved save effort in a 3-0 win in goal gave Washington its first the puck right-to-left along the Ottawa on Oct. 23. lead and sent the Capitals to blue line to Erskine, his defense Roberto Luongo stopped 27 their season-high fifth straight partner. Erskine skated to the shots for Vancouver, which victory over the New York top of the left circle and fired a began a five-game road trip. Rangers on Tuesday night. slap shot that beat Lundqvist The Canucks had gone 6-0-1 
In a wild and physical game over his right shoulder at 2:34. since a 6-2 loss in Minnesota on Oct. 19. They had a seven-game winning streak from Jan. 16-30. 
Markov gave the Canadiens a 1-0 lead with his first goal of the season at 6:53 of the first period. The veteran defense-man drove to the net to put home a loose puck after Luongo failed to cover up Brian Gionta's tip on a shot from the left corner by Tomas Plekanec. 
Montreal was unable to con­vert each of its first three power-play opportunities, falling to 3 for 50 overall after failing to take advantage of Andrew Alberts' double minor for high sticking Mathieu Darche 2:21 into the second. 
Hamrlik scored the Canadiens' fourth power-play goal of the season during their fourth man advantage of the game at 4:39 of the third. 
With Alberts in the penalty box serving a delay of game penalty after his clearing attempt sailed over the glass, Hamrlik drove home a slap shot 




Wednesday, November 10, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Players upset with Stern 
America. “With the state the 
Associated Press 
economy is in, fans are not 
ATLANTA — Atlanta Hawks going to want to keep getting veteran Maurice Evans said slapped in the face with play-Tuesday NBA players aren’t ers and NBA teams, as fortu­buying Commissioner David nate as we are financially to Stern’s recent call for a one-even be playing a game for a 
third reduction in players’ salaries. 
Stern said last 
“If we have a lockout,
month the 
it’s just going to set 
league wants player costs to us back.” drop $750-800 million. 
Maurice Evans
“We definitely 
NBA player 
don’t agree with those numbers,” representative 
Evans said. “We feel like the game is really at a great place.” 
Evans, a vice president on the NBA Players Association executive committee, said the two sides may not be able make any substantial progress in the NBA labor talks until the February All-Star break, when all players are available to return to the negotiations. 
He said the league’s rela­tionship with fans would be damaged by a lockout, espe­cially in the tough economy. 
“If we have a lockout, it’s just going to set us back,” Evans said while distributing 1,000 Thanksgiving turkeys to Atlanta-area families in a pro­gram sponsored by the NBPA and the Boys & Girls Clubs of living, to keep throwing it in people’s face that we’re not making enough money, whether it be the league or whether it be the players.” 
Evans, a seven -year veteran cur­rently recov­ering from 
offseason knee surgery, said he has attended all the negoti­ating sessions open to players. 
He called Stern’s tough talk “just a negotiation tactic.” 
“The tone just depends on the perspective, our tone or their tone,” Evans said. “Obviously in Stern’s words right now we are far apart, but who’s to say we’ll still be far apart in June or July of this year?” 
Evans predicted there will be progress in February “because that’s a time period in which a lot of heavy hitters per se will be able to come in.” 
“Everybody will be able to be there and hopefully we’ll be able to make some head­way,” he said. 
League owners are seeking major changes to the current CBA that expires June 30. Deputy commissioner Adam Silver said the league has told the union that owners project league-wide losses of about $340-350 million this season. 
Billy Hunter, the executive director of the players associ­ation, has said the league’s stance could lead to a work stoppage. 
Evans wouldn’t rate the odds of a lockout. 
“We don’t want to encourage a lockout at all,” he said. 
Evans said some teams’ finances have been hurt by bad decisions. 
“What we do believe is with the current system in place there’s enough restraints within the system that they can police themselves,” Evans said. “The system has proven to work that we have in place. Hypothetically, if a GM has approved a bad contract, yes it’s going to reflect poorly on 


Clark 
continued from page 20 
when you can lose a game and get another one next week, and now you lose one and you’re done. There’s more on the line, so you’ve got to be able to play in that environment. You have to live with it, but you have to 
your franchise.” 
Evans and Hawks teammate Etan Thomas both distributed 
NFL 
turkeys Tuesday as part a campaign sponsored by the NBA Players Association. During the campaign, players 

Ochocinco angry with 
will distribute turkeys to more than 8,000 families in NBA cities. 

reduced offensive role 

ing me away. It’s very frustrat­ing. They’re not allowing me to be available to help this team out. I was emotional, but in no way did it affect what we were doing out there on the field.” 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI — Chad Ochocinco is tired of being a sidekick. 
When the Cincinnati Bengals signed receiver Terrell Owens at the start of training camp, Ochocinco was content playing “Robin” to T.O’s “Batman,” say­ing he was glad to stay in the background to help the team. 
Not any longer. 
Ochocinco went out of his way to call attention to himself during a 27-21 loss to Pittsburgh on Monday night, wearing bright gold cleats in a look-at-me ges­ture that caught everyone’s eye. He also vented his frustration as the game went along and he got shut down, exchanging words with quarterback Carson Palmer and coach Marvin Lewis. 
Lewis yanked him from the game briefly to help him cool down. Ochocinco finished with only one catch, while Owens had 10 catches and two more touch­downs. 
“Yeah, he was upset,” Lewis said. “But we’ve got to play foot­ball. If he’s not going to get it done right, he’s got to come take an opportunity to freshen up his mind and get right back in the game.” 
Right now, Ochocinco’s mind seems to be about as out of sorts as his team’s season. The loss dropped the defending AFC North champions to 2-6, essen­tially scuttling their season at the midpoint. They’ve got two more months of playing it out, eight more chances for everyone to see how Ochocinco handles his season of being a nonfactor. 
“It’s been like that all year,” Ochocinco said. “Teams are tak­keep calm. We talk about it, but we don’t change the way we play. You have to have faith in yourself, your teammates and the system.” 
Notre Dame will face Louisville on Friday in the Big East semifinals in Harrison, N.J., at the Red Bull Arena. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
The Steelers (6-2) have a histo­ry of getting under Ochocinco’s skin. He’s played them 19 times, but has only three touchdown catches and a pair of 100-yard games. In 14 of the 19 games, Ochocinco has been limited to five or fewer catches. 
They used similar tactics again on Monday night, giving Ochocinco double coverage while Owens — lined up next to slot receiver Jordan Shipley — got different treatment. Owens fin­ished with 10 catches for 141 yards. Ochocinco had his only catch — for 15 yards — on the Bengals’ last drive. 
“It felt like it’d be easier to get Ochocinco out of the game because he was the single-receiver side guy,” Steelers coach Mike Tomlin said Tuesday. “You had some route-combination issues when you’re talking about 
T.O. That’s probably been the case with most people who’ve played them.” 
At age 36, Owens is having a career year. His 55 catches for 770 yards and seven touchdowns put him among the league’s elite and on pace to top his career highs for catches (100) and yards (1,451). He’s also on pace to break Ochocinco’s club record for yards receiving in a season. 
Ochocinco has only 40 catches for 473 yards and two touch­downs, subpar numbers for the six-time Pro Bowl player. He hadn’t complained about his lack of catches — all the defensive attention helped Owens get open 
— until he became an after­thought in the national spotlight on Monday night. 
He made his first catch late in the third quarter for an 8-yard gain, then slammed the ball to the ground in emphasis. The gesture was flagged for delay of game, and the reception was nullified by right tackle Andre Smith’s holding penalty earlier in the play. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 10, 2010 
“I think the thing that we have to be careful of is that we [don’t] 
Seed 
look to that matchup [with continued from page 20 Carolina] and take care of 
Friday night’s matchup,” he of Friday’s other contest in said. “That’ll be the message Alumni Stadium, a clash we’re getting to our players.” between No. 16/18 Illinois and The Irish will be joined in the No. 17 Southern California. If field of 64 by five other Big East the Irish are able to win both teams in Marquette, West games on home turf and the Tar Virginia, Georgetown, South Heels avoid being Florida and upset in Chapel Connecticut . 
Hill, Notre Dame will travel to North Carolina to  “We love playing Carolina. That could  Only one confer­ence, the Atlantic Coast  
participate  in  be a really fun  Conference, sent  
what may be one of the most hard­ matchup.”  more the  teams to champi­ 
fought battles of the entire tourna- Randy Waldrum  onship field. “I think  the  
ment.  Irish coach  committee puts  
“For whatever  so much weight  
reason, the com- in  the  ACC,”  

mittee loves to pair us with Waldrum said. “[But] there are Carolina somewhere along the so many good teams now in the way,” Waldrum said. “For country that it’s not going to be everybody that wants to look an easy run to the Final Four.” ahead, certainly that would be a If Notre Dame is to renew its great matchup. We love playing postseason rivalry with the Tar Carolina. That could be a really Heels, home field advantage will fun matchup.” be crucial, especially against 
The primary task for teams that Waldrum feels will Waldrum, however, will be travel well. ensuring that his team does not “New Mexico, they’ve never look past the current Mountain been in the tournament, so you West champion Lobos (12-2-5). know they’re going to travel well. Illinois, being close, is going to travel well with fans. I’m assuming just being USC that they will travel well with fans,” he said. “No one wants to be outnumbered in your home field. I really hope the fans come out and support us on Friday. We’ll really need them.” 


In addition to the win-or-go­home intensity of the on-field product, Waldrum offered one last incentive to the student body to show up in droves on Friday night for the 7:30 p.m. game. 

“The weather’s supposed to be great,” he said. “It could be a great home-field advantage if we could get the students and the fans to turn out.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


All-Big East honors in each of the last two seasons. She cur-
Kuhlke 
rently holds a program record in the 100-meter butterfly and 
continued from page 20 

has contributed to school son, she earned All-State hon-records in the 200-and 400­ors as well as an All-American meter medley relays. Kuhlke’s title, awards she continued to performance in the water has earn in each of her following aided the success of the Irish three seasons. Kuhlke went on squad, which has won its 13th to earn the All-American title and 14th consecutive Big East 10 times in her four years at titles the last two years. her Plano, Texas, high school. Kuhlke credits her team-As she continued to lead in the mates and coaches for her pool, Kuhlke grew into a team success in the pool and her leader and was captain in her contributions in helping the senior season while earning Irish win. the title of state champion. “[My teammates] are my Kuhlke also was a finalist at best friends and definitely Nationals, qualifying her for make putting in long hours at the U.S. Olympic Trials in but-the pool more enjoyable,” she terfly during high school. said. “Also being surrounded 
Her success in the water by people that expect the best came to a halt three years ago from themselves, as well as when a shoulder injury kept me, always challenged me to her out of the pool for most of do better. I also have to credit her freshman season. both my club coach at home Although she managed to and my coaches here at Notre swim in two events for the Dame. Their enthusiasm for Irish as well as in the U.S. the sport is contagious.” Trials, Kuhlke was forced to With her senior season undergo surgery and stay underway, Kuhlke sees great away from the pool. potential in her team to raise 
“I had a shoulder surgery to the bar even higher in terms clean up a lot of damage from of the success of the Irish overuse. I was completely out squad. 
the team getting a chance to this year’s team are looking 

of the water for about two “We are definitely focused on talk,” Ivey said. for this upcoming weekend. 
months,” she said. “At that being an NCAA team rather 
Reunion 
Junior guard Natalie “I always looked up to 

time I could only kick. I start-than just a conference team,” continued from page 20 Novesel hopes to use this Ruth Riley. I wasn’t really 
ed swimming again about 5 Kuhlke said. “We have taken weekend as a chance to see getting a hold of the game, 
1/2 months after surgery. I had great strides in accomplishing the Indiana Fever before if this season’s team poten-[and] she took me aside and 
to do rehab exercises every this, but we aren’t completely spending a season with the tially has what it takes to said, ‘that was me.’ It really 
day and a lot of work outside there yet. Seeing my team-Phoenix Mercury. Her recreate the success the gave me a good perspective 
of the pool to stay in the best mates step up day in and day return to Notre Dame and title team had. on hard work and what it 
shape possible.” out to reach our goals has working with Irish coach “We’re excited to talk to took to win a game. I’ m 
While recovering, Kuhlke been huge.” Muffet McGraw was preced-them about all the effort excited about just having 
said she continued to bond As co-captain of the Notre ed by two seasons (2005-and all the hard work and them back here to talk 
with her teammates and sup-Dame squad this season, 2007) at Xavier University all the extra things that about the upcoming season, 
ported them as best she could Kuhlke said she would contin­under former Notre Dame have to be part of both in I hope they ’re excited to 
from the deck. Her undying ue to work hard and set an assistant coach Kevin practice and in the off-sea-come back too,” Bruszewski 
commitment to the team example for her team while McGuff. son to make a national said. 
earned Kuhlke the support staying aware of what needs to “For me, being back here championship team. We’re The alumnae will be rec-
and respect of all her team-happen for the Irish to achieve and coaching at my alma excited to see if we’re on ognized at the beginning, 
mates, who all worked to help even more this season. mater, Notre Dame, under the same track, if we have during halftime and at the 
her get back to what she loved “Our team is focused on get-coach McGraw, I feel like the same goals that they end of Notre Dame’s home 
to do. ting the little things right this is the greatest opportu-had,” Novosel said. “They’re o p e n e r a g a i n s t N e w 
“The support from my team-throughout the entire season, nity of my life. I can ’t the one team that actually Hampshire Friday. They will 
mates was huge because I in preparation for champi­believe it, these 10 years made it. They’ve gone the have an open autograph and 
never envisioned having to onship season,” Kuhlke said. have gone by so fast,” Ivey whole distance. Every team photo session at Heritage 
deal with such a big event a “We want to continue to devel­said. “I’m excited just for before them had been work-Hall in the Purcell Pavilion 
few months into freshman op an environment of account-my old teammates to see ing for this.” before the game, which is 
year,” she said. “My athletic ability and enthusiasm to part-how campus, the arena and Senior team captain and scheduled for a 4 p.m. start. 
trainers and strength coach ner with all of the hard work the Joyce Center have forward Becca Bruszewski The women will also be rec-
also helped me get through the we put in every day. This year changed over time." remembered one moment ognized at the Notre Dame 
process because I spent a lot is a total team effort and we're Ivey also expressed her where National Champion football game against Utah 
of quality time with them.” all working together to achieve anticipation for another and 2001 NCAA player of on Saturday. 
Since recovering from her our goals.” opportunity that the reunion the year Ruth Riley took her 
injury, Kuhlke has been a weekend will bring. aside and provided the kind Contact Molly Sammon at 
major contributor and leader Contact Katharine Mack at “I’m really excited about of help that the members of msammon@nd.edu 
on the Irish squad, earning kmack@nd.edu 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  
22  23  24  
25  26  27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  
35  36  37  38  39  
40  41  
42  43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  
60  61  62  
63  64  65  

Wednesday, November 10, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
64 Luxurious 
65 Building materialin “The Three Little Pigs” 
Down 
1 Bombproof, say 
2 Big name in the 
20-Across business 3 Undercover 
buster 4 Turf 5 Iranian money 6 Supplement 7 “Presumed 
Innocent” author 8 Brainy 9 Prefix with 
dermis 
10 Rand who wrote “Civilization is the process ofsetting man free from men” 
11 Best of all possible worlds 
12 Idiot ___ 
13 “High,” in theHomeland SecurityAdvisory System 
18 Common crystals,chemically 
21 Body organsassociated with anger 
23 “The Hurt Locker” setting 
24 Browse 
25 Mail-order option 26 ___ Gold, agent on “Entourage” 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

WILL SHORTZ 
Puzzle by Ian Livengood  
27 Samovar  36 Full of calories  49 Valentine  
28 Singer honored on a 2008 U.S. postage stamp 29 Lacking brio 32 Flower's home 33 Frequent WeeklyWorld News  37 How-___ 38 Nail holder 39 Just make (out) 42 Swath maker 43 Chest 44 Lordly 45 Boston suburb  embellishment 52 Capt.'s inferiors 53 “Ri-i-ight!” 54 Sweets 55 DesignerSchiaparelli 56 Ton  
subjects, briefly 34 Wordplay, e.g.  47 Capt.'s inferior 48 Ball's partner  58 “___ Father …” 59 Tire abbr.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Across 
1 Red October detector 6 Mystified 11 Support grp. forthe troops 14 Pong maker 15 Hardly chic 16 Black goo 17 1970 James Taylor hit 19 Egg cells 20 See 2-Down 21 Go over 22 Mischievous rural pastime 25 Kind of agent 30 “I can ___” 31 Hatch on the Senate floor 32 Start of a dogowner's sign 
35 Keeping yourelbows off the table, e.g. 
40 Surrounded by 
41 Basslike fish 42 Complaints,informally 
45 Renter 
46 Classic Dana Carveycharacter, with “the” 
50 Eastern discipline 
51 Bygone warship 
57 1989 play aboutCapote 
58 Sound of capitalism? …or a hint to the starts of 17-, 22­, 35- and 46­Across 
60 Orders at a restaurant 
61 Restaurant order, with “the” 
62 Tempt 
63 Bus. card info 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
P  E  R  U  D  R  A  G  U  N  C  A  P  
C  R  O  P  I  O  N  E  N  E  H  R  U  
S  A  Y  B  Y  E  B  Y  E  D  W  E  L  L  
R  O  O  T  S  S  S  E  R  E  L  
P  R  O  W  L  S  N  E  A  R  M  I  S  S  
L  O  G  K  O  K  O  C  P  U  
E  L  E  V  D  O  T  E  A  S  S  E  S  
A  F  R  I  C  A  N  A  M  E  R  I  C  A  N  
D  E  S  T  E  A  S  I  P  C  O  R  E  
A  R  M  T  R  I  M  O  L  E  
A  P  P  L  E  P  I  E  T  A  M  P  E  R  
F  R  O  M  S  N  K  O  R  A  N  
L  I  N  G  O  D  O  N  M  C  L  E  A  N  
A  D  D  O  N  I  D  E  E  E  C  H  O  
T  E  S  T  Y  A  D  E  S  S  K  A  T  

JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Wednesday, November 10, 2010 page 20 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Tournament bound 
Irish earn No. 4 seed in NCAAs, placed in same bracket as familiar foe North Carolina 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 

Sports Writer  
The NCAA left some in South  
Bend disappointed Monday  
when the brackets for the  
NCAA championship were  
released on the heels of  
Connecticut’s upset of No. 8/10  
Notre Dame in the Big East  
quarterfinals.  
The Irish (15-2-2) found  
themselves with a No. 4 seed in  
the region headlined by tradi­ 
tional powerhouse No. 3 North  
Carolina, the region’s top seed.  
“I really thought we would be  
a two seed,” Irish coach Randy  
Waldrum said. “I didn’t think  
we would drop to a four, espe­ 
cially when you see that Florida  
State is a two seed and they’re  
13-5-2, and you’ve got a Boston  
College that’s lost six games  
that’s a two seed. I was a little  
disappointed with that.”  
The Irish will open their quest  
to return to the College Cup for  
the sixth straight year by host­ 
ing New Mexico on Friday. The  
winner of that match will go on  
to tangle Sunday with the victor  NICOLE TOCZAUER/The Observer  
Freshman defender Kecia Morway kicks the ball in Notre Dame’s 2-0 loss to Connecticut in the Big  
see SEED/page 18  East conference quarterfnals Oct. 31. The Irish received a No. 4 seed in the NCAA tournament.  

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Kuhlke to lead team byexample 
By KATHARINE MACK 
Sports Writer 
Senior Kellyn Kuhlke said her swimming career has been defined by three key ele­ments: dedication, a strong work ethic and an undying commitment that has been a part of her since she first jumped in the pool. 
Kuhlke said her interest in the sport stemmed from watching a cousin get involved in their younger days. Once her competitive nature kicked in, she was hooked. 
“My cousin swam when she was younger, and I wanted to start swimming after I saw her get involved with it,” Kuhlke said. “I continued to swim because I got competi­tive and made my best friends doing it.” 
Kuhlke’s career advanced in high school, where she wasted no time in making a name for herself. In her freshman sea-
see KUHLKE/page 18 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Postseason is business as usual for Irish squad 
Clark and No. 12 Notre Dame reach semifnals 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
With their win over Marquette in the Big East quarterfinals, the Irish are now fully immersed in postseason play. With the possibility of elimina­tion, Notre Dame’s mindset must shift without a change in strategy. 
“Tactically I don’t think we do anything different,” Irish sopho­more midfielder Dillon Powers said. “We stick to the things that we have been working to perfect all year. I think you have to adjust your mindset a little bit. It is win or go home and you have to put everything on the line or else you won’t be playing the next day. It is a mindset that we have tried to apply to our regular season games so it is habitually in the postseason.” 
The postseason is accompa­nied by pre-game rituals, which are often used to reinforce the significance of each contest. 
“Greg Klazura and I get a clean shave before each game,” Powers said. “I like to brush my teeth after, gets me feeling fresh for the game.” 
Irish coach Bobby Clark said the team does follow a certain amount of ritual, including hav­ing a pancake meal at his house before home games. But for the most part, he leaves it to his players, particularly the sen­iors, to take charge from there. 
“We have a pre-game meal and I talk to them, just to give them a short reminder about what needs to be done, but then I leave it to the seniors and then have their own way of getting the team ready,” he said. 
Clark also said that a change in attitude for the postseason is necessary, and that the Big East tournament is a good place for that to start. In addition, the Big East tournament has already given the Irish an RPI boost, moving them from No. 10 to No. 7 and giving Notre Dame an additional home game. 
“There’s a funny thing, because when you qualify for NCAA, the first thing you feel is a certain amount of satisfaction, but you can’t be content,” Clark said. “You have to ask how far can we take this? You have to hold your nerve and push this thing as far as it can go.” 
Clark said that he tries to encourage a certain amount of calm with his players before playoff games, but that it really comes down to them and their belief. 
“It’s almost like a new sea­son,” he said. “You come from 
see CLARK/page 17 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Championship team reunites 

By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 

The players and coaches 
of Notre Dame ’s 2001 National Champion women’s basketball team will return to South Bend Friday for the 2010 season home-opener to celebrate the 10 -year anniversary since they became the first and only team in program history to win the national title. 
“They’re the team that lit up the city, ” sophomore guard Skylar Diggins said. “I know I’ll see some familiar faces, and it’s going to be good to see everyone come back. I grew up watching that team.” 
As a South Bend resident, Diggins remembers watch­ing the championship game when she was nine years old and seeing how the team’s victory impacted the area. 
Current Irish assistant coach Niele Ivey started at point guard in the legendary 68-66 victory over Purdue in the championship game at the Savvis Center in St. Louis a decade ago. 
“It was the biggest high­light of my career, of my life,” Ivey said. 
Ivey graduated from Notre Dame in 2001 and played five years in the WNBA, spending four seasons with 
see REUNION/page 18 




