the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


‘A sense of freedom’ 
Sophomore bikes across country, raises $4,500 for home-rebuilding service project created by Notre Dame graduate 

Photo courtesy of Aaron Patzwahl All of the riders on the Fuller Center Bicycle Adventure participate in the customary “dipping of the tires.” They dipped their rear tires in the Pacifc Ocean and their front tires in the Atlantic Ocean to complete their cross-country journey. The group averaged 70 miles a day. 
But Patzwahl had the oppor-Georgia that constructs hous-Iafigliola will organize the community centers along the 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 

tunity to “see the country from ing in poverty-stricken areas. third annual excursion, and he way. 
News Editor 

the ground level,” and he “We averaged about 70 miles said he hopes to raise about At Notre Dame, Iafigliola was 
raised about $4,500 in the a day,” Patzwahl said of the $250,000. The last two trips president of Habitat for 
When sophomore Aaron process. trip, which began in San Diego, garnered about $200,000 col-Humanity on campus. He Patzwahl decided to spend his Before coming to Notre Dame Calif. and ended in Savannah, lectively, he said. became acquainted with summer after high school bik-in the summer of 2008, Ga. “It was great experiencing “The experience is something Millard Fuller, founder of both ing 3,300 miles across the Patzwahl participated in the the scenery, but meeting all you’ll never forget. There’s Habitat for Humanity and the country, he knew it would be a Fuller Center Bicycle different people across the kind of a sense of freedom in Fuller Center. challenge. Adventure, a service project country was the most amazing being on the road every day, After graduation, he pursued 
Cycling through California started by Ryan Iafigliola, a and enlightening part of the riding at your own pace and a post-graduate service oppor­deserts and the Rocky 2007 Notre Dame graduate, to trip.” meeting all kinds of interesting tunity with the Fuller Center, Mountains was, at times, benefit housing projects of the Patzwahl and Iafigliola were people,” Iafigliola said. and now works on staff. As painful. Often, the temperature Fuller Center for Housing. among eight riders that partic-During the 2008 trip, the part of his service, he organ-surpassed 100 degrees The Fuller Center is a non-ipated in the complete inaugu-group hit about 11 states and Fahrenheit. profit organization based in ral bike trip. This summer, stayed at various churches and see BICYCLE/page 6 


Gino’s East Pizza hits Mishawaka 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
Pizza lovers have never been at a loss for options in South Bend as far as quality and tra­dition are concerned — from the family favorite Rocco’s to the long-standing classic Barnaby’s to the student-loved Bruno’s. 
But now there’s a new player in the mix. 
Chicago deep-dish pizza land­mark Gino’s East has a new Mishawaka location, which is quickly gaining an esteemed reputation with the Notre Dame community. 
“Mike Brey comes in here about once a week,” Manette Tepe, Gino’s East part-owner and a ‘93 Notre Dame architec­ture graduate, said. 
The restaurant also catered more than 100 cheese, pepper-
see PIZZA/page 6 





Students search for abroadbeyondOIS 

By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Many Notre Dame students recently received acceptance let­ters into study abroad programs and have made plans to leave campus next academic year. However, several students are currently exploring alternative studyabroadoptions. 
“When students who didn’t get accepted into a semester-long program come to talkto us about their options, one of the first things we recommendis studying abroad in the summer through theUniversity,”AssistantDirector of the Office of International Studies(OIS)LizLaFortunesaid. 
Summer programs offered through OIS involve six weeks of study and require students to earn six to eight credits during their time abroad. While loca­tions for summer study include some overlapping cities with the semester-longprograms, 
LaFortune said summer study also has certain advantages for students that are not offered the semester-longOISprograms. 
“Summer study programs offer unique opportunities and unique locations,” she said. “Students can study in South Africa and attend English-language pro­gramsinParisandRome.” 
LaFortune said the applicant pool to the summer programs is varied, but a lot of people who were not accepted or were wait-listed in the academic year pro-
see ABROAD/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Tent Collecting for Haiti page 3  Bengal Bouts quarterfinals page 20  Thoughts on ‘(500) Days of Summer’ page 10  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 17, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Nothing beats the ‘90s 
Attheendoflastyearoneofthebig questionswaswhatdefinedthelast decade.Whatwerethemovies,songs, biggestpeopleandeventsofthe2000’s? 
Anditmademethinkbackevenfar­ther—whatdefined ourchildhoodinthe ‘90s? 
Thinkingback,it mademerealizethe ‘90sareeasilythe greatestdecadewe willeversee. We wereluckytogrow upduringagolden generationofenter-Michael Bryan tainmentandcul­ture,thelikesof 

Associate 
whichwewillnever 
Sports Editor 
seeagain. 
TurnontheTV nowandcompareittowhatweusedit have.Between“LegendsoftheHidden Temple,”“DoubleDare,”“Guts”(Istill wantapieceoftheAggroCrag)and countlessothershows,‘90s Nickelodeonwillneverbesurpassed. PowerRangerswasfantastic,andhow muchwouldyoupayfortheoldMTV? “SayWhatKaraoke”and“TRL”made anyafternoonentertainingforatleast twohours. 
Eveneducationwasbackthen.The MagicSchoolBuswentanywhereand OregonTrailstillstandsthetestoftime asoneofthegreatestcomputergames I’veeverplayed. 
Nomoviesofthelastdecadecame closetoequalingthoseofthe‘90s.IfI couldonlywatchfivemoviesforthe restofmylife,Iguaranteeeverysingle onewouldcomefromthatdecade. 
Pickanyofthislistandyouhavean all-timeclassicineverycategory:“Billy Madison,”“PulpFiction,”“FightClub,” “ForrestGump,”“SavingPrivateRyan”, “TheLionKing,”“IndependenceDay,” “SpaceJam”(youheardme),“Jurassic Park”and“ShawshankRedemption.” Youcannotcompetewiththose,andI knowIleftoutplentyofgreatoptions. 
Maybetheeasiestplacetofind90’s greatnessinthemusic.Itdoesn’tmat­terwhatgenreyou’reinto,therewas somethingforeveryone. 
Rapemergedandevolved,withJay-Z athisbest(ReasonableDoubt),2Pac andBiggiealiveandDr.DreandSnoop takingovertheWestCoast(howdid theymakesongsbeforeauto-tune?). 
GreenDaywasactuallygood,Blink­182wasformedandThirdEyeBlind andCountingCrowssongsarestill playedeverywhere.Weknoweveryall thewordstowaytoomany90ssongs, fromclassicslike“ClosingTime”and “ChampagneSupernova”toBackstreet BoysandBritneysongswebeltout afterdrinking. 
Allinall,Ifeelbadforfuturegenera­tions.They’llhavetheirownnostalgic memories,butthere’snowayHannah Montanacomparesto“SavedByThe Bell,”andthePowerRangerswould ownDoratheExplorer. 
Maybemostdepressingly,they’ll neverknowWillSmithhadamusic career. 
Sonexttimeyou’retiredofT-Pain andterriblerealityshows(JerseyShore excluded),turnupsome“Bittersweet Symphony”,turnonTheSixthSense andthinkabouthowgoodwehadit. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
In the Feb. 15 edition, the wrap of the 163-pound preliminary Bengal Bout between Steven Brownell and Caleb Laux was incorrect. Laux defeated Brownell after the referee called the fight in the second round. The Observer regrets this error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU DO TO DEAL W TH TH S SOUTH BEND WEATHER? 








Alicia Danto  John Tchoula  Carl Brophy  Andy Hills  Andrew Ea  Linh Hoang  
sophomore  junior  sophomore  sophomore  junior  junior  
Howard  off campus  St. Edward’s  Carroll  O’Neill  Welsh Family  
“I bundle up  “I sit at home,  “I find John.”  “A sweatshirt. I  “I throw  “I stand next to  
and stay in the  bake cookies,  don’t think it’s  snowballs at  the heater in  
dorm.”  and watch ‘The  that cold.”  the geese.”  South Dining  
Little  Hall.”  

Mermaid.’“ 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer Irish baseball coach Dave Schrage and football coach Brian Kelly talk during the Baseball Opening Dinner Tuesday night. 
OFFBEAT 

Dog hitchikes 1,200 miles to reunite with owner 
NEW ORLEANS — The dogs in New Orleans’ Carnival pet parade included a pooch that hitched a ride 1,200 miles from Taos, New Mexico, to the city where his 26­year-old master had hitch­hiked weeks earlier. Stephan Soleas came to New Orleans for a few weeks of visits and music. He said his 6-year-old Labrador mix, Charlie, went missing days after he left. 
Charlie was found by a couple vacationing in Taos. The couple saw a collarless dog and tried to find its owner, but the vet­erinarian didn’t have a microchip scanner. 
The couple gave up their airline tickets, rented a car and made the 3-day drive back to New Orleans with the dog. Incidentally, they also named the dog Charlie. 
Soleas and Charlie were reunited 10 days later — Feb. 5 — when Magazine Street Animal Clinic co-owner Teresa Gernon checked a microchip in the white dog's neck. Two days later, they were in the Krewe of Barkus pet parade. 
Police: Robin Hood charged with identity theft 
DENVER — This Robin Hoodisaccusedofstealing— and not to give to the poor. Authoritiessaida34-year-old named Robin Joshua Hood found someone’s wallet in downtown Denver and apparently began using the man’snameinaploytoavoid being caught on a warrant. Hood told investigators he was being investigated for drugcharges. 
Hood was charged Friday withidentitytheftandimper­sonation. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday 

IN BRIEF 
Mass to celebrate Ash Wednesday will be held in the Basillica at 11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. today. 
A lecture, “Immigration Reform: A Multifaceted Proposal to a Multifaceted Problem,” will take place from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. today in Room 210 -214 in McKenna Hall. 
A colloquium, “Biomolecules under pres­sure: Why it matters,” will take place from 4 p.m. to 
5:30 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland Science. 
Mike Valente, the recipient of the 2009 Nicholas Sparks Prize, will give a reading from 7:30 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the bookstore. 
The second annual student health fair, “How the Health Are You?” will be Thursday from 3:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. in the Rolfs Sports and Recreation Center. Free health screenings, assess­ments and self-care activities wil be offered to students. Free massages and food sam­ples will also be available in addition to free raffles for prizes. 
A lecture, “Blockading the Border and Human Rights,” will be Thursday from 4:30 
p.m. to 5:30 p.m. in Room 210-214 in McKenna Hall. The lecture will be preceded by a reception, beginning at 4 p.m. and followed by a book signing at 5:30 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Saturday Sunday 


Atlanta 43 / 29 Boston 38 / 33 Chicago 32 / 25 Denver 44 / 34 Houston 57 / 52 Los Angeles 72 / 64 Minneapolis 28 / 15 New York 36 / 29 Philadelphia 35 / 28 Phoenix 75 / 56 Seattle 54 / 43 St. Louis 31 / 22 Tampa 56 / 48 Washington 38 / 26 
Wednesday, February 17, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Student to begin tent, tarp collection for Haiti 



By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
As a Boy Scout, freshman MatthewKudijawastaughttogive backtoothers.Nowthathe’solder, Kudija is using whathe learnedto make a difference internationally bycollectingtentsforHaiti. 
“It has the potential to really provide some much-needed assis­tance to the people of Haiti,” Kudija said. “In the period between the immediate relief and the more permanent rebuilding, theyneedshelter.” 
Kudija hopes to begin collecting tents and tarps as early as next week,afterhegainsapprovalfrom StudentActivities. 
Kudija decided to start the col­lectionafterreadinganewsarticle in which Haiti Prime Minister Jean-Max Bellerive requested shelterforhiscountry. 
“[The article] highlighted the need for tents and the Prime Minister specifically requested donations from the worldfor tents to help shelter the people there,” Kudijasaid. 
Kudija said his background in the Boy Scouts is what led him to thisdecision. 
“I’m a Boy Scout, so my first reaction was that the [Boy Scouts of America] has access to a lot of tents and could get them there easily and that Notre Dame’s con­nections in Haiti could help get them there quickly,” Kudija said. “Today, they’re asking for tarps now. When we start collecting we’llaskforboth.” 
KudijaisworkingwithCircleK, a social service club on campus, and the Student Alumni Association, but he said he is still waitingforStudentActivitiesOffice approval. 
“I talked to Risk Management andthey saidthey’re fine withthe whole plan,” Kudija said. “It still needs to be approved officially through Student Activities. When that gets actually approved, we canstartcollectingoncampus.” 
“We’re trying to get more stu­dents involved with the project now that we’re atthe point where we can start doing stuff,” Kudija said. “It will be helpful to have more people involved with the actualcollecting.” 
Kudija is working with several localBoyScouttroopstobegincol­lecting. 
“I’mworkingwiththeBoyScout district in the South Bend area to collect tents in their units,” Kudija said. “There’s a facility just south ofcampusthatwemaybeusingto storetentsin.” 
Kudija said if his tent and tarp collection is successful on a cam­pus and local level, he would like to see the drive go national throughtheBoyScoutsofAmerica network. 
“There are two aspects that I’m working on — the local South Bendareaandthenationalorgan­ization of the Boy Scouts of America to work on a wide-scale effort,”Kudijasaid. 
Kudijasaidthebiggestchallenge is finding transportation for the tentsandtarpstoandfromHaiti. 
“Iknowthere’salotofguyshere that are former or current mem­bers ofthe BoyScouts ofAmerica, and they could contact their local units back home could help move stuff on the national scale,” he said. 
Those who wishto donate tents, time or transportation can contact Kudija at mkudija@nd.edu. Monetary donations are not cur­rentlyaccepted. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 



Saint Mary’s professor gives poetry reading 
By CAROLYNN SMITH 
News Writer 
Sr. Eva Mary Hooker spoke on wilderness — its beauty, splendor and power — at a poetry reading called “Notes on Survival in the Wilderness,” Tuesday at Saint Mary’sCollege. 
Hooker has previously given poetry readings in college and universitysettings,aswellaswith otherpoetsandwriters. 
The inspiration for her poems came as a joke, from an actual wilderness survival book. The titles of her poems relate to the chaptertitlesfromthatbook. 
“This is a sequence of poems thatexplorewilderness,itsbeauty andnaturalpower,”Hookersaid 
Hooker read with ease in a soft but intense voice and captured the audience’s attention as soon as she began reciting her first poem. 
She later recited a poem titled, “ToStayFound.” 
“To stay found, you must know whereyouare,”Hookersaid. 
As she moved through her poems, at times she was able to relate her words to the people of Haitiandtheircontinuingneeds. 
When asked by a student if she brings her femininity into her writing, Hooker said she brings herfemininityintoherworkmore thaninthepast. 
“Now I feel my understanding as a women is so fully integrated that I can’t leave that out,” Hookersaid. 
There was much appreciation andthanks from the audience not only for the poems, but also for her enthusiasm and strength whilereading. 
“The way you read your poetry reveals how a poet works,” Dr. Kathleen Dolphin, director of the Center for Spirituality, said to Hookerattheendofherreading. 
Hooker has taught English Literature for more than 25years and has been teaching at Saint Mary’s College for four years. Some of the courses she has taught include first year English courses,contemporarypoetryand apoetrywritingseminar. 
Her poems have appeared in a number of publications including The Harvard Review, The Massachusetts Review, Shenandoah (The Washington and Lee University Review) and the Vermont Literary Review. Her book, “Notes for Survival in the Wilderness,” was afinalistfor the Center for Book Arts Award. Another book, “The Winter Keeper,” was a finalist for the MinnesotaBookAwardinpoetry. 

Contact Carolynn Smith at csmith02@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 17, 2010 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 



Council reviews improvements, approves final Web site 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
At the Council of Representatives (COR) meeting Tuesday night, members reviewed improvements made to the new Web site, rent.nd.edu, and unani­mouslyapprovedthefinalversion. 
At the last meeting of COR, many members raised objections to the version of rent.nd.edu that was proposed to them. The Web site, which studentbodypresident Grant Schmidt said would be a resourceforstudentstoreviewoff­campus housing options, has been modified to be more accessible and user-friendly based on the suggestions from members of COR. 
“Two major issues about rent.nd.eduthatwereraisedinthe last meeting have been fixed,” Schmidtsaid. 
One of the biggest debates was overwhowouldcontrolormonitor thesubjectiveinformationthatcan be posted to the Web site by stu­dents. Schmidt said a “Correct This Information” box was added to every listing where visitors to the site can post corrections to information thattheyfeelis incor­rectaboutspecificproperties. 
“The information that visitors postin this box willbe sent to the administrator as well as to the individual who created that list-ing,”Schmidtsaid. 
Sophomore Joey Rich, the cre­ator of rent.nd.edu, will continue to be theadministratoroftheWeb site for the next few years and he will be the one responsible for monitoringthesite. 
“AfterJoeydecidesthathedoes­n’t wantto be involvedin the Web site anymore, it will be up to stu­dent government to decide if they want to continue with this resourceornot,”Schmidtsaid. 
The other major issue that was fixed was the display and organi­zation of properties. At the last meeting of COR, many members had expressed concern with the difficulty of rating and reviewing complexes or the individual prop­ertiesthatcomprisethatcomplex. 
Schmidt said students now have theoptionofratingacomplexasa wholeoraspecificpropertywithin that complex, making the content mucheasierforstudentstoview. 
Since rent.nd.edu was unveiled lastweek,therehavealreadybeen morethan1,600views,despitethe fact that student government has­n’t advertisedthe site yet. Schmidt said this fact was very encourag­ing and thinks that rent.nd.edu hasalotofpotentialtobesuccess­ful. 
“I really think that this is an awesome resource,” he said. “We can also tie this into off-campus safety because now students can be better informed and feel more secure knowing that they’re living inasafearea.” 
Schmidt said Student Government will e-mail off-cam­pus students about the Web site today so that they can start reviewing their properties and complexesonthesite. 

Schmidt then reminded mem­bers ofCORthatthey onlyhad six weeksleftbeforethenewlyelected studentgovernment officials begin acting in their new positions. He saidthelastfewweekswouldbea good time to address any issues thattheyfeltwereimportant. 
Schmidt said he planned to dis­cuss issues involving Food Services, medical amnesty and personal meetings with hall rec­tors in the coming weeks with COR. Meetings with the will take place in the next week and will involve two members of student government talking to each rector individually about improving resi­dencelifeoncampus. 
“Rectors play such an important role on campus and we want to talk to them about the bettering their role and bettering residence halllife,”Schmidtsaid. 
After talking to rectors, mem­bers of student government will then meet with student senators and other dorm residents to gain better insights into potential improvements. 

Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 





World & Nation 
Wednesday, February 17, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


Pope meets with Irish bishops 
VATICAN CITY — Pope Benedict XVI told Irish bishops at a special summit meeting Tuesday to be courageous in confronting the pedophile priest scandal that has rocked that Catholic nation’s church, but took no action on victims’ demands the Vatican take some responsibility. 
Specifically, bishops said the pope didn’t rule on whether to accept the resignations offered by several bishops for their role in decades of concealment or push for resigna­tions from those resisting calls to stepdown. 
The two-day, closed-door meeting bring­ing together the pope, top Vatican officials and 24 Irish bishops was called to restore the trust of Irish Catholics shaken by revela­tions of decades of clergy sex abuse and cover-up. 

New findings made in Tut mystery 
CAIRO — Egypt’s most famous pharaoh, King Tutankhamun, was a frail boy who suffered from a cleft palate and club foot. He died of complications from a broken leg exacerbated by malaria and his parents were most likely brother and sister. 
Two years of DNA testing and CT scans on Tut’s 3,300-year-old mummy and 15 others are helping end many of the myths sur­rounding the boy king. While a compara­tively minor ruler, he has captivated the public since the 1922 discovery of his tomb, which was filled with a stunning array of jewels and artifacts, including a golden funeral mask. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Florida executes 1980s murderer 
STARKE, Fla. — Florida has executed 45­year-old Martin Edward Grossman, who was convicted of killing a state wildlife officer during the 1980s. 
Governor Charlie Crist’s office said Grossman died at 6:17 p.m. on Tuesday at Florida State Prison. 
He was convicted of first-degree murder in the death of Margaret “Peggy” Park, a Florida wildlife officer who was shot with her own gun in 1984. 
Grossman was the 69th person executed in Florida since the death penalty was reinstat­ed here in 1979. He was the 25th by lethal injection, the fifth executed under Florida Gov. Charlie Crist and the first in 2010. 
Park’s family traveled from Ohio to witness the execution. 

Judge allows hate crime confession 
GARDEN CITY, N.Y. — A jury will be permitted to hear testimony that a New York teenager admitted to police moments after the fatal knifing of an Ecuadorean immigrant that he was responsible, prosecutors said Tuesday. 
Jeffrey Conroy, 19, is the only one of seven teenagers charged with murder in the November 2008 stabbing of Marcelo Lucero near the Patchogue train station on Long Island. Two other teenagers have pleaded guilty to assault as a hate crime and other charges and have agreed to testify against their co-defendants. 
Conroy and four others are awaiting trial; all have pleaded not guilty. Conroy’s trial is expected to start sometime in March. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Former GOP Sen. seeks Bayh’s seat 
INDIANAPOLIS — Former Republican Sen. Dan Coats’ campaign said Tuesday it has more than enough petition signatures to put him on Indiana’s May primary ballot as he seeks the Senate seat Democrat Evan Bayh is leaving. 
Coats won’t have a clear path to his party’s nomination, as at least four other Republicans expect to be on the ballot. Meanwhile, no Democrats met Tuesday’s deadline to submit the necessary signatures to get on the primary ballot, meaning state party officials will pick a candidate for the November election. 
PAKISTAN 



CIA captures top Taliban leader 
Arrest of radical group’s second in command deals major blow to organization 
Associated Press 

ISLAMABAD — The cap­ture of the Afghan Taliban’s No. 2 commander by a joint CIA and Pakistani team dealt a fresh blow to insur­gents under heavy U.S. attack and raisedhopes that Pakistani securityforces are ready to deny Afghan mili­tantleaders asafe haven. 
Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar’s arrest in the Pakistani port city of Karachi may also push other insurgent leaders thought to be sheltering on this side of the border toward talks with the Afghan government — a development increasingly seen as key to ending the eight-year war. 
Baradar, in his late 40s, was the secondin command behind Taliban founder Mullah Mohammad Omar and was said to be in charge of the day-to-day running of the organiza­tion’s leadership council, which is believed based in Pakistan. He was afounding member of the Taliban and is the most important figure of the hardline Islamist movement to be arrested in thewar. 
Baradar, who also func­tioned as the link between Mullah Omar and field com­manders, has been in deten-President BarackObama’s was far from adecisive proved itself aresilient tion for more than 10 days administration has vowedto blow. They said Baradar organization.” and was talking to inter-kill or seize Taliban and al-would likely be quickly Pentagon spokesman Col. rogators, two Pakistani Qaida leaders in replaced and that local Dave Lapan said he could intelligence officials said Afghanistan and Pakistan. commanders had a lot of neither confirm nor deny Tuesday. One said several The arrest comes as relent-autonomy from the leaders that Baradar was captured other suspects were also less CIA missile strikes basedin Pakistan. but said the removal of any captured in the raid. He against militant targets in Nevertheless, the capture senior leader would have said Baradar had provided the border tribal region is likely to cause short-term “an immediate impact to “useful information” to have killed several com-disruption, since Baradar their operations.’ them and that Pakistan had manders. was the day-to-day com-“But we’ve seen, too, that shared it with their U.S. Obama has ordered mander of the Taliban and they then push successors counterparts. They spoke on 30,000 extra troops to his successor would not into their place... How long condition of anonymity southern Afghanistan. On have thesame prestige. it takes them to sort of because of the sensitivity of Saturday, thousands ofthem “It’s agreat tactical suc-reconstitute depends on the theinformation. began amajor attack on the cess thatthe coalition forces situation.” 
The White House declined town ofMarjahin thesouth-should be pleased with, but Afghan analysts in the to confirm Baradar’s cap-ern province of Helmand, by no means is it the begin-U.S. said they were closely ture. Spokesman Robert one of the regions that ning of the end,” said Will watching for a stepped-up Gibbs told reporters the Baradar is believed to con-Hartley, an analyst at Jane’s U.S. effort to capture or kill fight against extremists trol. Terrorism and Insurgency Jalaluddin Haqqani and his involves sensitive intelli-Former members of the Center in London. “This will son Sirajuddin, the brutal gence matters and he Taliban regime in have a noted effect on the leaders of the Taliban arm believes it’s best to collect Afghanistan and security short-term ability of the that operates in eastern that information without experts said the arrest Taliban to operate the way Afghanistan from bases in talkingaboutit. would hurt the Taliban but it was. However, it has northwesternPakistan. 



Obama announces loan for nuclear plant 
tive to turn to cleaner nuclear fuel. Obama has been arguing that the 
Associated Press 
“On an issue that affects our econo-country must develop cleaner energy 

LANHAM, Md. — Promising “this is my, our security, and the future of technologies and modernize the only the beginning,” President our planet, we can’t continue to be means by which it powers itself. At Barack Obama announced more than mired in the same old stale debates the same time, he has said that poli­$8 billion in federal loan guarantees between left and right, between envi-cymakers must not conclude they Tuesday for the construction of the ronmentalists and entrepreneurs,” have to choose between a cleaner first nuclear power plant in the Obama said in a stop at a job training environment and sufficient energy United States in nearly three center outside Washington. “Our supplies to meetdemand. decades. competitors are racing to create jobs Obama’s budget proposal for 2011 
Obama cast his move as both eco-and command growing energy indus-would add $36 billion in new federal nomically essential and politically tries. And nuclear energy is no loan guarantees to $18.5 billion attractive as he sought to put more exception.” already budgeted but not spent — for charge into his broad energy agenda. Rising costs, safety issues and a total of $54.5 billion. The new $8.3 Obama called for comprehensive opposition from environmentalists billion in federal loan guarantees will energy legislation that assigns a cost have kept utility companies from go toward the construction and oper­to the carbon pollution of fossil fuels, building new nuclear power plants ation of a pair of reactors in Burke giving utility companies more incen-since the early1980s County, Ga., bySouthern Co. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 17, 2010 
was left with an open space. ferent because it’s deep-dish Alcoy, Spain, this summer 
through the College of Tepe assessed the premises and they offer something total-

Abroad 
Pizza 
Engineering, which also offers a 

with operator Larry Briski, lydifferent.” continued from page 1 summer program in London for 
continued from page 1 who suggestedthe idea ofturn-The Mishawaka location around40Engineeringstudents. 
ingthe space into Gino’s East. stands out from other Gino gramsapplyforsummer. “It’s reallyhardfor engineering 
oni and sausages pizzas to the “I knew Gino’s East …Ihad Easts as well, she said, because “We make the summer pro-majors to go abroadfor an entire 
football team after home been going there since high of its unique décor. Other loca­gram deadline two weeks after semester,” she said. “The College 
games during their entire sea-school,” Tepe said. “So I tions, like the original on the academic year decision let-of Engineering programs allow 
son. jumped all over it.” Superior Street in Chicago, tersaresentoutforthatpurpose, us to take classes abroad that 
“They ordered 140 small piz-Tepe said the push to open a offer interiors with walls on sostudentswhoweren’taccepted will count for engineering elec­
zas [for the first game],” Tepe location in the area was a diffi-which customers can write have another option,” LaFortune tivecredit.” 
said. “The nextgame came and cult one and required agreat with chalk. The interior of the said. Hamman said she wouldprefer 
another restaurant was sup-deal ofpersuasion. Mishawka location features Sophomore Dave Skorup said to go abroadfor an entire semes­
posedto be there, but someone “Selling the corporate people Notre Dame and American he decided to apply to the ter through OIS, but that the 
from the athletic department was hard,” she said “They did classic images with pizza Summer London 2010 program summer program through her 
got wind and call us on not think South Bend was a themes, like former Notre after he found out he had been college works better with her 
Thursday and said ‘Hey, will market they wanted to go to at Dame quarterback Brady wait-listedfornextspring. schedule. 
you guys do this?’ because they all.” Quinn throwing a deep-dish “I knew I wanted to go abroad “It’s not a bad option by any 
really wantedthe pizza.” Tepe said Gino’s corporate pizza instead of afootball. at some point and so when I got means and I don’t have to worry 
The football team was one of gave a number of reasons for Tepe also decorated the wait-listed I thought that the about being overloaded my sen­
Gino’s first loyal customers not wanting aSouthBendloca-bathroom interiors with summersessioncouldbefun,”he ioryear,”shesaid. 
after its September opening. tion. images from Rome, such as said. Studentslookingforanalterna-
Tepe said Gino’s currently “It’s not a suburb of Chicago, some specific to the architec-Skorup said after he looked tive study abroad experience can 
offers a 10 percent discount to there’s not enough people … ture program. For example, he further into the summer pro-also apply for international 
students with valid schooliden-They had like every negative framed a photo of Hotel gram, he realized that it would internshipsandfellowshipsinthe 
tification cards and is working you could think of,” she said. Lunetta, where architecture be to his personal advantage to developing world through the 
on a delivery program to the “But people [in South Bend] students stay while studying in goabroadinthesummer. KelloggInstitute for International 
University, making the pizza already knew about [Gino’s]. Rome. “There are classes Ican take in Studies. 
more accessible to students We didn’t even advertise when “It’s kind of like a fun little the summer program that make “Students that participate in 
without cars. we opened.” Rome throwback,” she said. it easier to qualify for an these programs are often inter­
Gino’s is located in Heritage Senior Mary Kusek, who Tepe saidhe hopes the pizze-International Business certifi-ested in going to countries that 
Square shopping center in recently visited Gino’s, said ria will become an attractive cate,” he said. “I really wantedto aren’t offered through OIS,” 
Mishawaka, roughly five miles with South Bend’s other place to the entire community go abroad in the spring, but also Assistant Director of the Kellogg 
north of campus. renowned pizzerias, the open-and hopes that with student didn’t really want to be away InstituteHollyRiverssaid. 
The location of Gino’s East ing of a new one seemed diffi-discounts and campus catering from campus for an entire The KelloggInstitute funds stu­
was originally to be an Irish cult. events, Gino’s will become as semestersothisworkedout.” dents’ efforts in programs such 
pub called Molly Brannigan’s, “Trying to establish a pizza big of a fixture in South Bend LaFortune said many students as Experiencing the World 
Tepe said. But the pub’s con-restaurantin SouthBendis dif-as its other Italian favorites. research other study abroad Fellowships, which give students 
tractor pulled out and Tepe, ficultbecause ofRocco’s andits options outside of those offered more independence in places like 
senior vice president of devel-history with Notre Dame peo-Contact Katie Peralta at byOIS. Africa,AsiaandLatinAmerica. 
opment at Holladay Properties, ple,” Kusek said. “This is dif-kperalta@nd.edu 
“If an OISprogram doesn’tfit a “In the Kellogg programs stu­student’s interests or academics dents are often traveling with we often encourage them to look only two or three other students at other ways of going abroad,” so they are forced to integrate she said. “We often connectthem into the country and culture,” with the Center for Riverssaid. Undergraduate Scholarly No matter how it is accom-Engagement and we suggest plished, LaFortune said she talking to their deans about hopes that students find some studying abroad through their meansofstudyingabroad. majororcollege.” “To visit, study or researchin a 
Sophomore Allie Hamman, an foreign country is a great oppor­engineering major, was accepted tunitythat all students shouldtry into the Dublin program for Fall and take advantage of,” 2010,buthadtoturnitdowndue LaFortunesaid. to conflicts with her classes and credits. Contact Molly Madden at 
She has elected to study in mmadden3@nd.edu 
A native of Fort Myers, Fla., Patzwahl said the trip was an 


Bicycle 
education. continued from page 1 “We stayed in towns ranging 
from as large as Albuquerque 
to this little town in New ized the cycling trip across Mexico, where there was one America. stoplight if that. No one had 
“I was trying to figure out cell phone reception the entire how I could contribute to the time,” he said. “I realized how Center right out of college,” much cultural diversity there Iafigliola said. “And I thought is in America.” of a bike ride to raise money.” The trip was physically tax-
Iafigliola said riders can ing as well, Patzwahl said, and raise money for a cause of presented some logistical chal­their choice, and along the lenges. At one point, the road route, the group stopped at they were taking just ended, Fuller Center sites to help with no indication on the map build houses. as to how to get back on track. 
For Patzwahl, one of the But he said anyone can do most meaningful experiences the trip with some training. of the trip was helping to “Riding in the Rocky rebuild the small town of Mountains was difficult,” he Greensburg, Kan., after it had said. “But it was the most been ravaged by a tornado the beautiful part of the trip with-previous summer. out a doubt.” 
“They had been hit by a real-Iafigliola said one of the best ly bad tornado the summer parts of biking across America before, and when we got there, is simply meeting people from the entire town was demol-different parts of the country. ished,” he said. “We took an “When you’re out there, not extra day off from riding to visiting tourist sites, but going stay and build for another through country, you meet day.” ordinary people and see the 
Although the group was way they’re living,” he said. cycling to serve others, This year’s ride begins June Patzwahl said it often worked 18 and concludes Aug. 8, start-the other way around. ing in Niagara Falls and end­
“We would meet people in ing in New Orleans. Bikers can the towns, and oftentimes, participate for the entire ride they would cook you a meal or or for a segment of the course. do something really nice. The “Cycling is fun, but the trip is hospitality was amazing,” about so much more than Patzwahl said. “We were try-cycling,” Iafigliola said. “Being ing to be of service and pro-a part of this ministry is really mote our organization, but something special.” usually you would receive more than could give to these Contact Madeline Buckley at people.” mbuckley@nd.edu 


The Observer 



Business
Wednesday, February 17, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
Google Buzz faces FTC complaint 
WASHINGTON — A privacy watchdog group complained to federal regulators on Tuesday about Google’s new Buzz social networking serv­ice,sayingitviolates federalconsumerprotection law. 
The Electronic PrivacyInformation Center filed its complaint withthe FederalTrade Commission just days after Google Inc. altered the service to addressmountingprivacyconcerns. 
Since launchingGoogle Buzz as partofGmaila week ago, the search company has come under fire for automatically creating public circles of friends for users based on their most frequent Gmailcontacts.Overtheweekend,Googlealtered the service to merely suggest contacts for its users’socialnetworks. 
Despite the changes, EPIC argues that privacy violations remain because Google automatically signs up Gmail users for Buzz, rather than wait­ing for them to do so themselves, or “opt in” for the service. EPIC wants the FTC to require Google to make Buzz a “fully opt-in” service. It alsowantsthecompanybarredfromusingGmail address book contacts to compile social network­inglists. 

Simon Property bids on competition 
LOS ANGELES — Simon Property Group Inc., the nation’s largest shopping mall owner, made a $10 billion hostile bid Tuesday to acquire ailing rival General Growth Properties. 
The acquisition would allow General Growth, the No. 2 owner of shopping centers, to emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy pro­tection. General Growth filed for bankruptcy last year after buckling under the weight of billions in debt it racked up during a massive expansion effort fueled by cheap credit. 
The move is Simon’s second attempt at a major acquisition in three months. In December, Simon offered $700 million in cash and stock to buy more than 60 outlet shopping centers from another competitor, Prime Outlets Acquisition Co. That deal is pending. 
Simon is using its comfortable cash cushion and credit lines to take advantage of falling commercial property values, which are off 40 percent from their peak in 2007. And General Growth has some prized centers, including the Glendale Galleria in Southern California and the South Street Seaport in Manhattan. 



Dow climbs nearly 170 points 
Dollar falls while stocks, oil, gold and other commodities experience sharp spike 
Associated Press  
NEW YORK — Signs that  
the economy is indeed  
strengthening gave  
investors a surge of opti­ 
mism and sent stocks  
sharply higher.  
The Dow Jones industri­ 
als soared almost 170  
points Tuesday on upbeat  
earnings reports and cor­ 
porate deals. Investors  
who have been anxious in  
recent weeks about eco­ 
nomic problems overseas  
were able to put aside  
their concerns for the time  
being. They focused  
instead on the domestic  
economy.  
The dollar fell as  
investors felt less of a  
need to stash their money  
in safer investments. Oil,  
gold and other commodi­ 
ties joined stocks as the  
beneficiaries of the mar­ 
ket’s renewed confidence.  
And the stocks of energy  
and materials producers  
were among the day’s big  
winners.  
European markets also  
rose following new plans  
by European Union lead­ 
ers to push Greece to get  
its budget under control.  
European officials gave AP  
Greece one month to In this Feb. 4 photo, trader Gregory Rowe, left, and specialist Michael Sollitto, right, react  
prove it can cut its on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.  
deficits. Debt problems in  
European countries  Schering-Plough Corp.  has offered to acquire its  global oil, global metals  
including Greece, Portugal  Earnings reports over  ailing rival, General  and European power and  
and Spain have been a  the past month have most- Growth Properties, for $10  gas assets in a deal worth  
major factor behind weak­ ly come in better than  billion. General Growth,  about $1.7 billion. The  
ness in global stock mar- expected, but problems in  the No. 2 mall operator,  move nearly doubles  
kets in recent weeks.  the global economy have  filed for bankruptcy pro­ JPMorgan’s corporate  
A strong earnings report  overshadowed that good  tection last year.  client base for commodi­ 
from Barclays, a major  news and pushed the mar- The Dow rose 169.67, or  ties.  
European bank, also gave  ket lower.  1.7 percent, to 10,268.81.  Economic reports  
the market some relief.  “Earnings have been  The Standard & Poor’s  throughout the holiday- 
European banks have  good, but pushed to the  500 index rose 19.36, or  shortened week will also  
been slower to recover  back seat,” behind  1.8 percent, to 1,094.87,  provide insight into the  
than their U.S. counter­ Europe’s problems, said  while the Nasdaq compos- economy. Market were  
parts, and investors saw  Alan B. Lancz, president  ite index rose 30.66, or  closed Monday for  
the bounceback at  of Alan B. Lancz &  1.4 percent, to 2,214.19.  President’s Day.  
Barclays as an encourag- Associates in Toledo, Ohio.  About five stocks rose  A report on manufactur­ 
ing sign.  The strong reports  for every one that fell on  ing in the New York area  
In the U.S., Kraft Foods  Tuesday “superseded  the New York Stock  was stronger than expect- 
Inc. and apparel retailer  some of these worries.”  Exchange, where consoli­ ed. The Empire State  
Abercrombie & Fitch  Meanwhile a bold acqui­ dated volume came to 4.2  manufacturing index rose  
reported earnings that  sition move by the nation’s  billion shares, down from  to 24.91 this month, com- 
beat expectations, while  largest mall owner raised  4.5 billion Friday.  pared with a forecast of  
drugmaker Merck & Co.  hopes that businesses are  In other deal news,  18, according to econo­ 
said profits jumped after  feeling more confident  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  mists polled by Thomson  
the company bought its  about the economy.  said it was buying RBS  Reuters. The index was  
longtime partner  Simon Property Group  Sempra Commodities’  15.92 last month.  


Obama plans to create deficit commission 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — Determined to have a deficit commission with or without Congress’ backing, President Barack Obama plans to announce on Thursday that he is establishing a panel similar to — although weaker than— the one lawmakers rejected. 
Former White House chief of staff Erskine Bowles and former Republican Senate Whip Alan Simpson would lead the panel, a sen­ior administration official said Tuesday. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity because the president’s executive order creating the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform had not been announced. 
The deficit spiked to an extraordi­nary $1.4 trillion last year and could top that figure this year as the strug­gling economy puts a big dent in tax revenues. Even worse from the per­spective of economists and deficit hawks, the medium-term deficit pic­ture is for deficits to hit around $1 trillion a year for the foreseeable future. 
Obama and his economic team have said repeatedly that this is not sustainable. He told lawmakers dur­ing his State of the Union address that he would go around their vote and appoint a version of a deficit commission. 
Obama’s version of the commission is a weaksubstitute for what he real­ly wanted: a panel created by Congress that could force lawmakers to consider unpopular remedies to reduce the debt, including curbing politically sensitive entitlements like Social Security and Medicare. 
As rejected, the bipartisan 18­member panel would have worked for much of the year and, if 14 mem­bers agree, report a deficit reduction blueprint after the November elec­tions that would be voted on before the new Congress convenes next year. The 14 would have to include at least half of the panel’s Republicans. 
That idea crashed in the Senate, defeated by equal numbers of Democrats and Republicans — some of whom initially supported the idea. 
Although Obama’s commission will lack any requirement for Congress to act on its advice, it will provide some political cover and big-name back­ing. 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Wednesday, February 17, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Sarah Mervosh Michael Bryan Amanda Gray Chris Masoud John Cameron Chris Allen 
Graphics Scene 
Blair Chemidlin Maija Gustin 
Viewpoint 
Patricia Fernandez 




Taking this international 
Last weekend, the first gold medal of the winter Olympics was awarded to Swiss ski jumper Simon Ammann. While his ability to propel himself off a ramp 108 meters into the air was incredible, it was his post interview that was particu­larly telling. In it, he spoke in incred­ible English to the NBC interviewer, not only giving the normal “it felt great” sort of 

Jason Coleman
sentiments, but also metaphors and idioms to Man at Large describe his delight. I know quite well that Western Europeans in particular have famously gifted tongues, often speaking three or more languages fluently. Some claim this is simply a result of necessity; that European countries simply couldn’t live together without its citizens able to communicate across languages. This is in part true; however, there still seems to be a sense of good European citizenship that involves learning another language, if only to accommodate each other more easily. This is something that is certainly lacking in the United States, with many students rarely even taking seri­ous language classes in grade school, middle school or college. 
The common argument is that English is the language of the world, should be the language of the world or soon will be the only language worth knowing in the world. So, if we are flu­ent in English, what else do we need? Globalization has in fact made the world smaller, and has increased the number of English speakers on the planet. However, it is hard to imagine that English will be the only language worth knowing any time soon. Even with hundreds of years of continental coexistence, the French still speak French, and the Spaniards still speak Spanish. Education in the United States should work harder to imbue the sense of global citizenship that accompanies learning a foreign lan­guage. 
This seems to be lost on most major universities, our own included. While the school of Arts and Letters and the school of Science require at least intermediate proficiency in one foreign language (which is great), the school of business requires no language courses at all. In fact, it is possible to earn an International Business Certificate upon graduation without ever taking a language course, or even leaving the country at all. 
The majority puts forth the argu­ment that English is the language of business, and no other language is needed to be an international busi­nessperson. It may be possible to oper­ate internationally without any lan­guage experience, but one will certain­ly be limited in their effectiveness. If the ultimate purpose of business is to sell a product or service to someone, then one might ask how an American in Beijing plans to sell something to a Chinese business that operates mostly in Chinese. Moreover, even if the actu­al business is handled in English, it certainly doesn’t hurt to demonstrate an understanding and appreciation of culture through language. Just being able to use simple greetings, and talk about the challenge of learning a for­eign language with someone who has had a similar experience learning English is good for business relations, and, as a result, good for business. 
In addition to making graduates more appealing to potential employ­ers, the simple act of learning a lan­guage is a different kind of challenge from working finance analyses, or learning how to account for invest­ments on the balance sheet. It is a challenge that cannot be mastered easily or with a long night of cram­ming. Make no mistake: Mendoza stu­dents are top notch at what they do, but in the same way they are rarely asked to produce a well-written essay, they are not challenged linguistically either. Even if students never plan to work outside of the country, the simple challenge of taking a language at a college level is enough to make them think more clearly about the way they use English in both writing and speak­ing. 
Certainly some students would be upset at the prospect of having to take a foreign language. However, it would-n’t be worse than other classes in the business school (read: future issues, behavioral science requirements, etc.) and could potentially open up a whole slew of possibilities for a student that may have never existed. This has been the experience of a number of stu­dents I know who were able to turn some language ability into internships and jobs around the world. 
Ultimately, business schools across the country teach largely the same topics. If Mendoza is to remain a top­notch business school, it could start by helping to transform its students into not just a business force, but a force ready to take on opportunities not just at home, but all around the world. This would be a competitive edge that would be hard to beat. 
Jason Coleman is a senior account­ing major. He can be contacted at coleman.70@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Whatisyourfavorite WinterOlympicevent? 
Figureskating 

“You only live once — but if you 

Hockey 
work it right, once is enough.” 

Snowboarding Alpineskiing 
Joe E. Lewis 
U.S. comedian

Curling 
VotebyThursdayat5p.m.at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Wednesday, February 17, 2010 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Let’s talk about justice 
Pope John Paul II in “On Human Work” writes “[Unions] are indeed a mouthpiece for the struggle for social justice, for the just rights of working people.” Despite this basic right to organize, Notre Dame has millions of dollars invested in HEI Hotels and Resorts, the seventh largest hotel management compa­ny in the US. HEI buys hotel properties and runs them under franchise brand names, such as Hilton and Sheraton, with the inten­tion of selling them again at a profit within eight to 12 years. To cut costs, HEI uses tac­tics such as increasing workloads, decreasing hours and layoffs. Workers with already phys­ically demanding jobs are being asked to work even harder. A recent study published in the American Journal of Industrial Medicine in 2009 shows that hotel workers had an injury rate 25 percent higher than all service workers, housekeepers having the highest rate of injury. Despite complaints, employees still feel that their voices are not being heard. 
This has prompted HEI workers across the country to organize. However, employees have encountered many challenges in this fight. The National Labor Relations Board has issued the following complaints among others against HEI alleging that the company broke labor laws by, “Inform[ing] its employees that it would be futile for them to select a union as their bargaining representative by implying they would not get a pay raise,” and “Threaten[ing] employees with losing their employment, if they continued to participate in union activity.” 

As a Catholic community, we are called to stand for stand for justice. How can we con­tinue to invest millions of dollars in a compa­ny whose workers are suffering without being heard? Can we allow workers such as Herman Romero and Santana Alvarez, employees of HEI-owned hotel Sheraton Crystal City in Arlington, Va., to be laid-off after a union drive began only to be rehired months later in positions with lower wages? 
After a meeting with Notre Dame’s invest­ment office last spring alerting them to these issues, nothing has changed. We, as a Catholic community standing in love and soli­darity with HEI workers, are calling Notre Dame to divest from HEI. Take a stand with us. 
Sarah Furman 
junior off campus 

Elizabeth Furman 
junior off campus Feb. 16 



New spoon location actually costs NDH more money 
According to Kevin Eller’s letter, “Spooning for Solutions,” North Dining Hall moved the spoons so that fewer students would use them, in hopes of saving money on dishwashing. If this is true, whoever made that decision is extremely misguided. While there are certain­ly many people who will refrain from taking an unnecessary spoon as a result of the relo­cation, there are an equal number of people who need a spoon but forget to pick one up. A student will sit down to enjoy his meal and realize that he has no spoon with which to eat his soup. The student is forced to double back and get a spoon. This journey will undoubted­ly make the student even hungrier, causing 
UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON 

him to consume more food. The cost of preparing this extra food effectively negates any dishwashing savings. When you factor in the number of students who continue to take a superfluous spoon out of spite or who end up with two forks and a knife, I am convinced that the spoon relocation actually increases costs for NDH. I whole-heartedly support Mr. Eller’s plan to move the spoons back where they belong with the forks and and knives. 
Mike Sullivan 
senior Zahm Hall Feb. 16 


Detained missionaries only victims of justice 
In the wake of Haiti’s devastating earthquake, people from all over the world have provided an outpouring of support to the ravaged country. 
A contingent of 10 American missionaries, however, is discovering that its intended charita­ble contribution may have gone too far for the Cougar Editorial Haitian government’s Board taste. 
The group was detained 
The Daily 
after allegedly attempting 
Cougar
to rescue 33 Haitian chil­dren by illegally taking them across the border into the Dominican Republic. After the Americans were held in cus­tody for several days, Haitian authorities charged them with kidnapping Jan. 26. 
Prosecutors accused the Americans of abduct­ing the children — some of whom told police they had living parents — so they could be sold into child-trafficking rings. 
In a speech to members of the press on Feb. 3, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said the group’s decision was “unfortunate,” and that the 
U.S. would not interfere with Haiti’s investiga­tion. 
There isn’t much reason to believe the Americans’ actions weren’t on the up and up, but their intentions in this situation do not make a difference. They broke another country’s laws and deserve to be in jail for doing so. 

It’s understandable that people would want to help Haitians in any way possible; with around 200,000 dead and another million or so left homeless, plenty of Haitians could use the assis­tance. But the missionaries apparently couldn’t figure out a better way to provide aid without breaking the law. 
People condemning the U.S. government’s decision to not get directly involved in this case should try to imagine where they would stand if the shoe were on the other foot. 
What if it was Haitian missionaries who were in jail for attempting to smuggle American chil­dren out of the U.S.? 
Haiti has the right to hold the missionaries accountable for their actions. 
Laws always need to be followed — especially in a time of crisis. 
This column first ran in the Feb.10 edition of The Daily Cougar, the daily newspaper serving The University of Houston. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Is Fr. John listening? 
Recently, the St. Joseph County Council passed an ordinance, or a law, that requires companies to pay their workers at least a “poverty wage.” A poverty wage is to be calculated every year on March 1 and is to be used until the following March 1. For 2010, the poverty wage is $8.80 per hour. However, along with this law, the ordinance contains a “self-sufficiency wage.” While the ordinance does not require companies to pay their workers a self-sufficiency, or a living wage, this wage is the lowest income one could make without hav­ing to receive subsidies (such as food-stamps, etc) of any kind. The St. Joseph County Council determined this wage to be $12.90 per hour. Interestingly enough, few building service or food service workers at Notre Dame receive a self-sufficiency wage. In fact, most starting workers earn a mere $9.02 and hour, nearly $4 an hour under the guideline for a self-sufficiency wage. Is Fr. John listening to every member of the Notre Dame family? And if so, do families let some members wait in line for food stamps while others enjoy a healthy and balanced meal in the comfort of their homes and dorms? 
Alicia Quiros 
senior off campus Feb. 15 


God Save the Swedes 
Dear Brendan Keeler, 
While reading the Viewpoint I stumbled upon your brief diatribe, “Cloudy with a chance of meatballs” (Feb.15), lamenting certain idio­syncrasies exhibited by North Dining Hall. Though I am neutral towards your statement that the “spoons belong with their brethren,” I was appalled at your bold usage of the terms “Swedish meatballs” and “terrible” in the same sentence. I would venture to say that the Swedish meatballs, which North Dining Hall faithfully produces upwards of six meals a week, are some of the most palate-pleasing staples of said dining establishment. Additionally, the racially charged statement, “why mix Swedish with Italian, keep it pure North?” is an affront to the culturally inclusive environment which Notre Dame painstakingly strives to attain. 
Students of Notre Dame, do not be led astray by Mr. Keeler; the Swedish meatballs should be appreciated both for their delectable nature and their contribution to the cultural multiplicity among menu options at North Dining Hall. 
God Save the Swedes, and their meatballs. 
Anna Nanigian 
junior Lyons Hall Feb. 15 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 




Scene
page 10 Wednesday, February 17, 2010 
By DECLAN SULLIVAN 
Scene Writer 

Ok, so easily the best movie released in the past 12 months was “[500] Days of Summer.” Starring Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Zooey Deschanel, this romantic comedy managed to take a genre that is flooded by awful Matthew McConaughey and Jennifer Aniston vehicles and turn it into something with a message on the complexities of modern relationships that, at the same time, remained entertaining due to an offbeat sense of humor, a great sound­track and visually dazzling moments that conveyed the emotions of the characters in a way that words never could. 
But that wasn’t good enough for the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. Instead, the Academy gave a nomination to an actress whose most famous role was that of Gracie Hart of “Miss Congeniality” and “Miss Congeniality 2: Armed and Fabulous” fame. 
“[500] Days” at least deserved a nom­ination for Best Original Screenplay or Best Actor. That’s not to knock the movies nominated in those categories 
— they are pretty solid. But the fact that “[500] Days of Summer,” a movie that not only completely changed the way an entire genre is perceived — think “Star Wars” to sci-fi and fantasy movies — but also appeals to nearly every person that it is shown to — I’m talking about coasties-to-stoners range of appeal — did not garner even a sin­gle nomination makes me nervous about our society in general. 
Despite all its praise, “[500] Days” was not the most popular movie of the year — or even close to it. No, instead that recognition goes to a movie that is about two degrees away from furry porn. “Avatar” did look sweet, but its plot was a shallow rip-off of countless other movies — “The Last Samurai” and “Dances with Wolves,” to name two — and yet it has NINE Oscar nomi­nations. That’s crap. It deserves the technical awards, but Best Picture? No, no it does not. Instead, it is merely tak­ing up a spot that “[500] Days” should be occupying. 
I’m not saying “[500] Days” deserves to win Best Picture, or even be nomi­nated for it, but looking at some of the movies up for the award, it is at least as good or better than half on the list. I mean, “Up” was a good movie, but aside from the first 15 minutes, it’s a pretty standard Pixar flick. And I don’t think standard flicks should be reward­ed with both Best Picture and Best Original Screenplay nods. 
The Academy has upset me before, but I have not been so upset with a snub that I wanted the Academy mem­bers AND their families to suffer, at least until now. I curse you Academy members. I curse you to another decade of declining ratings for the Oscars. I curse you to increased claims of irrelevancy. I curse you to the level of the Kids Choice Awards. “[500] Days of Summer” deserved the nomi­nation, and you not giving it to them just shows how oblivious you are to the difference between good movies and movies with big budgets and star power. If not giving the nomination seemed like the right move to you, then I don’t want to be right. 
P.s. If you haven’t seen “[500] Days of Summer,” you really should. Zooey Deschanel is sooooo hot. 
Contact Declan Sullivan at dsulliv9@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 



Scene
Wednesday, February 17, 2010 page 11 

By COURTNEY COX 
Scene Writer 
The album cover for Yeasayer’s “Odd Blood” looks as if something is missing. It appears that there is a face there, but it looks distorted, like a person being Skyped with horrible service. It’s a blur with basically no structure. What a clever choice for album art because that’s essentially the way the album feels. There are certainly great tracks, but as a whole it isn’t quite assembled and something seems to be missing. 
The album begins with “The Children,” which simply has no structure other than the keyboard part near the middle and end. It gives off the feel­ing of suspense, almost saying … just wait, the album hasn’t started yet. It seems like a wasted song, but it’s the first one so of course there’s still hope for the rest of the album. 
The suspense proves to be well worth it, seeing as the first single off the album, “Ambling Alp,” follows it up. This track is so great in every way. It may not cause the listener to jump up out of their seat and dance, but it’s perfect for just bop­ping around. The drums are one of the best parts of the song. They drive the melody and have been known to cause many an air drummer to go crazy. The best part of the entire track, however, is the lyrics. They are so inspiring in a very non-preten­tious way. “You must stick up for yourself, son. Never mind what anybody else done.” It makes so much sense. “It is important to not let everyone just walk all over you,” seems to be the message that lead singer Chris Keating is trying to convey, and he has done so in a very hip manner. 
That great track is then followed up by “Madder Red,” which is almost an ‘80s-inspired power bal­lad rearranged for the indie rock listeners of the 2010’s. It begins really minimalistically but then builds to a sort of pop melody. It’s definitely good, but not great. It seems to serve as a brief inter­lude between “Ambling Alp” and the following “I Remember.” 

“I Remember” is one of the best songs on the album simply because it’s so straightforward. Amongst all the noise and arguably overly ambi­tious instrument choices, this track is honest and self-assured. In a lot of ways it’s very sweet. Not Jo Bros sweet, but definitely sweet for Yeasayer. It begins with a descending scale that gives off the impression of tumbling. It is a very happy and upbeat fall, however, and that’s when it becomes clear that it’s falling in love. Cute right? Well someone must have really cast a spell on the lyri­cist because every word is just dripping with a peaceful bliss. Keating sings, “I remember making out on an airplane, still afraid of flying but with you I’d die today.” Gosh, doesn’t everyone wish they could find a guy that sweet? It gets even bet­ter. He also sings, “You’re stuck in my mind all the time.” Swoon. It’s definitely a love song, but the best part about it is that it’s simple and real. Despite all the noise he’s talking about situations that most people can relate to and will identify with. 
The last truly good song on the album coinci­dentally follows directly after “I Remember.” “O.N.E.” is the dancey track that picks up the tempo after its peaceful predecessor. While it is definitely upbeat, the message is a little angrier. The whole point of the song is that this man, who­ever he is, is trying to get away from the girl who had him wrapped around her finger. It’s almost pushing her away, but then right in the middle of the song it slows down for mere seconds with the words, “Hold me like a foe, hold me like you used to, control me like you used to.” While he is push­ing her away he still has her in the back of his mind and at some points still wishes she were there. Then suddenly he mans up and pushes her away again with, “No … you don’t move me any­more, and I’m glad that you don’t, ‘cause I can’t have you anymore.” It’s a great juxtaposition and it makes the song one of the three standout songs from the album. 
Sadly those three are the only three with any real merit, and they all occur within the first five tracks. “Odd Blood” perfectly nails some songs, but others are just jumbled and leave the listener wondering what in the world? While it’s not Yeasayer’s best album, it does have its redeeming qualities and is definitely worth a listen, if only to hear those three standout tracks. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 



By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writer 
It’s three days after Valentine’s Day. Are you still love drunk, smelling the beautiful roses sent to you by a boyfriend, smiling as you stare at the adorable stuffed bear reading “I Love You Bear-y Much!” across his chest? Or are you still recovering from a chocolate over­dose resulting from an attempt to drown the sorrows of your single life with sugar? But no matter your current state of mind or relationship status, it is possible to find happi­ness with “Love,” the newest album from Angels & Airwaves. 
The CD is the third album by the alternative rock band started by Blink-182 vocalist Tom DeLonge. It begins with an instrumental piece, “Et Ducit Mundum Per Luce” (“He Leads The World Through Light”). Although it has no words, the song provides an excellent introduction to the album’s space-like, almost haunting sound. The guitar and drums steadily increase in intensity, segueing nicely into the rest of the album. 
The progressive, space rock feel to the album fits appropriately with the album, which provides the soundtrack to the band’s similarly titled movie. “Love” is scheduled for release in April 2010. According to DeLonge, the movie “centers on an astronaut who is stranded in a space station as the Earth collaps­es,” but in truth the movie seems to be more than that. Through an astronaut stranded on the International Space Station, the movie explores the human need for connection. 

After the opening instrumental piece, the album takes off, launch­ing into a number of moving, lyrical songs. One of the best songs of the album is “Hallucinations,” the first single, which the band released in October 2009. The song begins with a good percussive beat and rising guitar chords as it asks, “Do you believe in hallucinations, steady dreams, or imaginations?” 
Even without knowing the premise of the movie that the song accompa­nies, it is easy to imagine yourself floating through the cosmos, past brilliantly colored galaxies and neb­ulae while listening to this song. The rhythm and lyrics combine to make the song a calming one, per­fect for de-stressing after a day of tests. 
The introductions and conclusions to the songs, though instrumental, are exceptional. Ranging from a few seconds to a minute, the segments add greatly to the cosmic sound of the album, providing segues from song to song. 
Other fantastic tracks from the album are “Young London” and “Shove.” “Young London” starts out fast and powerful, with strong per­cussion. It is a beautifully written and recorded call for its listeners to live for today, saying, “Suit up, boys, let’s ride, it’s the weekend. Get down, girls, and dance with your best friend.” 
“Shove” also starts out strong, echoing a similar sentiment. It calls to those in love to really enter into it wholeheartedly, to accept the headfirst fall, for it “can be so bold and so cava­lier.” It has a rhy thmic, almost elec­tronic feel, but it works with the lyrics and in combination with the rest of the album. 
The album itself is an excellent one, although the tracks tend to blend together slightly. Each one has a similar feel, and each deals in some way with the concept or idea of love. However, the tracks themselves stand out from each other in subtle ways. Also, considering the album is almost a movie soundtrack, it works that the songs are alike in sound and theme. Even with the similar sounds, the album is excellent, easy to listen to and appropriate for almost occasion. 

“Love” is a free album. It is avail­able for download online on ModLife. 

Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 17, 2010 
NBA 

Hall of Famer Jordan determined to buy Bobcats 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. — Michael Jordan has been called the NBA’s greatest player, a supreme competitor and top pitchman. 
Jordan soon could have a much different role: team owner. 
Charlotte coach Larry Brown said Monday night that Jordan has told him he’s doing all he can to buy majority control of the Bobcats from owner Bob Johnson. 
“He said he’s doing his best to put himself in a position to get the team,” Brown said after practice. “He wants it badly.” 
Johnson is eager to sell the unprofitable club, and NBA commissioner David Stern said Saturday he expects a deal to be completed within two months. 
While Stern has said Jordan owning the team “would be a good thing,” he may have competition. Former Houston Rockets executive George Postolos has made inquiries, and it’s possible if Postolos gets control Jordan would no longer have a role with the team. 
Jordan, currently a part owner with the final say on basketball decisions, would have to put an ownership group together and agree with Johnson on a price. Jordan declined comment Monday through a team spokesman. 
“I didn’t talk to him about the particulars,” Brown said of his conversation with Jordan last week. “He just told me don’t believe every­thing you read in the paper and I’m trying my hardest to get this thing done. I’m hope­ful that at the end of the day Michael will be running the Bobcats.” 
Postolos, who once worked as an assistant to Stern in the NBA offices, has been in talks with Johnson for months. 
“I am still not talking to media about Charlotte,” Postolos wrote in an e-mail to The Associated Press on Monday. 
Jordan currently has a unique role in Charlotte. While he runs the basketball operations, he’s not officially a team employee and rarely attends practices or games. But he was able to lure Brown, a fellow Hall of Famer, to coach the Bobcats and Charlotte (26-25) is in position to make its first play­off appearance this season. 
“Anytime I read a possibili­ty that Michael is not going to be involved it impacts my family and me because I came here because of him,” said Brown, in his record ninth NBA head coaching job. “Now after I got here I real­ized there were a lot of real plusses for being here. But again, I wouldn’t have thought about it and I’ve been thrilled since I’ve gotten here with the arrangement.” 
Guard Raymond Felton was even more confident that a deal would be struck to make one of North Carolina’s most popular figures owner of the state’s NBA team. 
“From what I’ve been hear­ing it’s probably going to hap­pen,” Felton said. “So I hope it works out and he gets the team.” 
Johnson, the founder of Black Entertainment Television and the first black majority owner of a major professional sports team, also wasn’t talking Monday. He has declined interview requests for months. 

What’s clear is Johnson is looking to unload the Bobcats. After paying $300 million for the expansion franchise that began play in 2004-05, Johnson has lost tens of millions of dollars each season as the Bobcats have struggled to draw fans and find sponsorships. 
But after five losing sea­sons, the Bobcats sit in sixth place ahead of Tuesday’s game against New Jersey. 
“(Johnson) wanted the snow in Dallas to freeze the season so that the Bobcats would go right to the playoffs for the first time,” Stern joked at his news conference Saturday. “So I think they have done a good job of putting a team together.” 
Jordan has had a role in that since buying into the team in 2006 and getting control over basketball deci­sions. After a rocky beginning that included drafting the dis­appointing Adam Morrison, he’s made several moves that have helped the team, includ­ing November’s acquisition of Stephen Jackson from Golden State. 
Owning a team outright would be another milestone for the six-time NBA champi­on. 
“He’s as good a player as we’ve ever had in this sport. He’s a wonderful guy,” Brown said. “I think when the NBA bounced back, Magic (Johnson) and Larry (Bird) and then Michael sustained it. A lot of people owe a lot to him. I don’t think David Stern takes that lightly. I think he admires Michael and realizes what he means to our sport. 
“I just think we’ve got to have him involved. … I just can’t see the NBA without him being involved.” 
NFL 

Raiders, Janikowski agree to record $16 million deal 
an unrestricted free agent if the that was the fourth longest in 76 percent for his first three 2008. 
Associated Press 

Raiders did not sign him to a NFLhistory. seasons. But he has been very The focus now turns to defen-
ALAMEDA, Calif. — Sebastian contract or place the transition Janikowski also had 17 touch-consistent the past two seasons, sive lineman Richard Seymour. Janikowski and the Oakland or franchise tag on him by Feb. backs on 58 kickoffs for the making 41 of 44 kicks inside of Oakland traded a 2011 first-Raiders agreed on a$16 million, 25. But the team was able to sixth best mark in the league 50 yards. He became the all-round pick to New England for four-year deal Tuesday that is lock him up by giving him the last season. time leading scorer in team his-Seymour before last season. He the richest contract for akicker same contract All Pro punter The Raiders used afirst-round tory in 2008 and has 1,000 had four sacks, but two of the in NFLhistory, the team said. Shane Lechler got ayear ago to pickto draftJanikowskiin 2000, career points. them came in the season opener. 
Janikowski will be guaranteed stay out offree agency. makinghim the first specialistin The Raiders have traditionally If Oakland cannot sign $9 million in the deal, a person Janikowski is coming off the 21 years to go in the first round. done a good job keeping their Seymour to a long-term deal by familiar with the contract said best season of his 10-year Janikowski did not emerge as own free agents. They gave Feb. 25, the team is expected to on condition of anonymity career. He made 26 of 29 field the game-changing kicker record deals last February to use the franchise tag to keep because the team did not goals, with his only misses con-owner Al Davis hoped for at the keep Lechler and star corner-him for next season. Seymour, a announce terms. ESPN first ing from 45, 57 and 66 yards. time. back Nnamdi Asomugha and five-time Pro Bowler, would be reportedthecontractTuesday. He made six kicks of at least 50 He missed 10 field goals as a also gave abig deal to keep guaranteed $12,398,000 with a 
Janikowski was eligible to be yards, including a61-yarder rookie, and connected on only defensive tackle Tommy Kelly in franchisetag. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

ment 2 bedroom kitchen bath livin-Luke: I can eat fifty eggs. groom diningroom and laundry Dragline: Nobody can eat fifty eggs.FOR RENT room. References and lease PERSONAL Society Red: You just said he could required Please call 574-274-2110 Faculty/grad students. 2 bdrm, 2.5 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do eat anything. 
bath, LR, DR, FR, Florida room, If you or someone you care about not go it alone. Notre Dame has Dragline: Did you ever eat fifty 2 apartments available near down-utility room. 2-car attached garage. has been sexually assaulted, we many resources in place to assist eggs? town SB 129 N. St. Louis Blvd Off-Campus housing 2010-11 and Security system. Available now. can help. For more information, visit you. If you or someone you love Luke: Nobody ever eat fifty eggs. (between Jefferson St. &amp; 2011/12. Irish Crossings, Dublin 262-332-0015. Shown by appt. Notre Dame's website: needs confidential support or assis-Prisoner: Hey, Babalugats. We got Colfax St.) Both apartments 1000 Village, Wexford Place. Also a few 1616 E. Colfax. http.csap.nd.edu tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at a bet here. SF no deposit required $350.00 per houses and Villas. Some furnished. 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For Dragline: My boy says he can eat person per month includes utilities Call 574-298-4206. CES Property 2BR/2BA Finsh Bsmnt 2 Car GA 1 CONSIDERING ADOPTION? ND more information, visit ND's web fifty eggs, he can eat fifty eggs. upstairs apartment 2/3 bedroom Management mile to campus $575/month Cell ALUMS hoping to adopt. Please site: Loudmouth Steve: Yeah, but in how kitchen bath and livingroom 574-215-7785 visit our website http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu long? $375.00 per month per person gradrentals.viewwork.com http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro-Luke: A hour. includes utilities downstairs apart-file.net. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 



Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Wednesday, February 17, 2010 
page 13 
NCAA Division I Men’s Hockey 
USCHO/CBS Poll 
team previous 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 Miami (OH) Denver Wisconsin St. Cloud State Yale Minnesota-Duluth Colorado College Boston College Bemidji State Cornell North Dakota Michigan State New Hampshire Ferris State Maine Union (NY) Vermont Massachusetts Boston University Alaska-Fairbanks Mass.-Lowell Nebraska-Omaha Northern Michigan Northeastern Michigan 
1 2 3 4 6 7 9 10 5 8 11 13 15 14 12 16 17 18 NR NR 20 NR NR NR 19 
NCAA Division I Softball USA Today/NFCA Poll 
team  previous  
1  Washington  1  
2  Arizona  6  
3  Florida  3  
4  Michigan  4  
5  Arizona State  5  
6  Missouri  9  
7  UCLA  8  
8  Georgia  7  
9  Alabama  2  
10  Georgia Tech  13  
11  Stanford  10  
12  California  12  
13  Oklahoma  11  
14  Ohio State  14  
15  Louisville  22  
16  Louisiana-Lafayette  24  
17  Fresno State  25  
18  Massachusetts  20  
19  LSU  18  
20  Texas  NR  
21  Northwestern  15  
22  Tennessee  16  
23  Florida State  23  
24  North Carolina  19  
25  Baylor  17  

NBA 


Blazers acquire Camby for Blake, Outlaw 
Associated Press 

PORTLAND, Ore. — The Portland Trail Blazers are picking up needed help on the interior, acquiring Marcus Camby from the Los Angeles Clippers in exchange for guard Steve Blake and forward Travis Outlaw. 
The team announced the trade on Tuesday. ESPN.com and Yahoo! Sports were the first to report the deal, which also includes cash going to the Clippers. 
The Blazers are currently in eighth place in the com­petitive Western Conference despite a litany of injuries. Centers Greg Oden and Joel Przybilla are both out for the season with injuries. All-Star Brandon Roy hasn’t played since Jan. 20 with a ham­string injury. 
Camby gives the Blazers instant help in their deplet­ed middle and is a sign that despite their injury prob­lems the Blazers (31-24) want to make a playoff push this season. Along with Oden, Przybilla and Roy, forward Nicolas Batum, guard Rudy Fernandez and Outlaw have all missed significant time with injuries. 
In Portland, Camby will team with another veteran in Juwan Howard to solidi­fy the Blazers post. The lanky veteran is a former defensive player of the year and two-time member of the NBA all-defensive team. In 51 games this sea­son with the Clippers, the 14-year veteran is averag­ing 7.7 points and 12 rebounds per game. 
“We are very excited to bring an experienced big man of Marcus’ caliber to the team and we feel he’ll help us a great deal down the stretch run,” Blazers general manager Kevin Pritchard said. “He’s a fierce competitor and has been one of the league’s best defensive players for quite some time.” 
The Blazers were able to part with Blake because of the development of Jerryd Bayless and the presence of Andre Miller. Blake returned to Portland before the 2008-09 season and was a starter for much of last season. He began this season in the Blazers’ starting lineup as well before taking on a reserve role in December. In 51 games, Blake was averag­ing 7.6 points and 27 min­utes per game for the Blazers. 
Outlaw has been one of Portland’s key reserves during the Blazers’ turn­around in recent seasons. He was the longest-tenured Blazers player after being drafted in the first-round of the 2003 draft by Portland. 
Outlaw has been limited to just 11 games after breaking his left foot on Nov. 14 at Charlotte. In 
IN BRIEF 

Pitcher Chien-Ming Wang 
signs deal with Nationals 
NEW YORK — Pitcher Chien-Ming Wang and the Washington Nationals have reached an agreement on a $2 million, one-year contract, a person familiar with the negotiations told The AssociatedPress. 
The deal includes the chance to earn $3 million in performance bonuses, the person said Tuesday, speaking on condition of anonymity because the agreement was not yet final. 
Washington planned to announce the deal during a news conference Friday at spring training, the person said. 
Wang, a right-hander who turns 30 on March 31, had spent his entire five-year major league career with the Yankees, who allowed him to become a free agent in December when they failed to offer a 2010 con­tract. 
Ex-Oklahoma State coach 
pleads not guilty to charges 
STILLWATER, Okla. — The attorney for former Oklahoma State coach Sean Sutton entered a not guilty plea to four felony drug-related charges Tuesday and said his client is in a treatment center. 
The attorney, Trace Morgan, explained the reason for Sutton’s absence at the arraignment to Payne County Special Judge Michael Stano, who set an April 5 hearing date. Morgan later declined comment to reporters. 
Sutton, 41, was arrested Thursday after agents from the Oklahoma Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs saidhe picked up ashipment of painkillers under another person’s name. 
Authorities said the package con­tained about 40 pills, which included the anti-anxietydrug clonazepam and two forms ofthe stimulantAdderall. 
Orioles’ Bergesen hurts arm 
filming team commercial 
BALTIMORE — Orioles right-han­der Brad Bergesen will be slowed at the start of spring training after hurting his shoulder while filming a promotional spot in December, an injury that caused the team to insti­tute a new policy regarding com­mercial shoots. 
Bergesen strained his right shoul­der while performing in a commer­cial promoting Baltimore’s 2010 season. He will see limited action for a week to 10 days after the Orioles pitchers and catchers begin workouts Thursday in Sarasota, Fla. 
Bergesen had his rookie season cut short last year after being hit in the shin by a line drive on July 30. The right-hander had not thrown off a mound from August until the commercial shoot, and he hurt him­self by throwing at game-speed. 


aroundthedial 
Men’s NCAA Basketball 
Duke at Miami (FL) 7 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 
Suns at Mavericks 9 p.m., ESPN 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, February 17, 2010 
could not find the opportunity driving Zaabel against the Scullion immediately deliv-but all it took was one powerful 
he needed to weaken his relent-ropes andinto acorner. ered powerful blows to the throw from Stedman to knock 
Bouts 

less opponent. Zaabel became more offen-freshman’s head that made him the freshman Tansey to the continued from page 18 In the third round, Macomber sive in the third round, tryingto lose balance and accuracy. ground and cause the referee to 
struggled to findhis target, and scrape up afew lastpoints for a Salat entered the ring adif-stopthe fight. Nicholas Severyn def. Robert let his guard down. Minafra potential victory, but a powerful ferent boxer in the second Tansey led Stedman around Manfreda reacted by throwing a right left hook from Straccia proved round, aiming for the grad stu-the ring and often had Stedman 
Severyn’s technique set him shot that pushed Macomber to be the difference in a split dent Scullion’s body to weaken pinned against the ropes, but apart in the first round, but the back against the ropes and sent decision. his opponent’s tendency to keep Stedman’s powerful combina­freshman Manfreda showed no Minafra to the unanimous victo-supplying detrimental punches tion punches proved detrimen­indication of his rookie status. ry. 205 pounds to Salat’s head andface. tal to Tansey’s ability to com-While the junior’s ability to Scullion quickly got dizzier, plete the fight. One extremely dodge punches added to his Nicholas “It’s-a ME-a” Ponzio Pat “Tigers Love Pepper, They almost losing his balance powerful hook from Stedman efforts, Manfreda ended the def. Preston Bennett Hate Cinnamon” Burns def. numerous times in the third threw Tansey to the ground second round full of energy. In After an even beginning, the Francis “The Tank” Conway round when Salat forced him with four seconds left in the the end, Severyn’s experience senior captain Ponzio ended the The senior Burns and the against the ropes. Scullion won first round. helped him last through the first roundin controlby corner-sophomore Conway traded by splitdecision. final round and take the fight ing his freshman opponent. blows for the first two rounds, Kevin “The Long Beach by asplitdecision. Bennett came back with inten-with both fighters displaying John “Papi” Tchoula def. Jeff Lunberjack” Crepeau def. 
sityin the next round, overpow-strong defensive skills while “Devil Dog” Hsu Daniel “The Mega-Asian” Gregory Bennett def. David ering his older opponent. In the neither gained a significant It only took 50 seconds for Chen “Mountain Man” Cray end, Ponzio continued to pres-advantage. In the third round, Tchoula to defeat grad student Crepeau, a junior, defeated 
Bennett, a sophomore, and sure his challenger and took Burns landed a number of head Hsu as the referee stopped the Chen in half the time of a nor-Cray, ajunior, both exchanged the win by splitdecision. shots to the sophomore. When fight. Right from the beginning malfight as the referee deemed jabs to the stomach and head Conway appeared unable to of the fight, Tchoula, a junior, the fight over with 45 seconds throughout the first two Dominic “Warsaw War defend himself one minute into established himself as the dom-leftin the second round. rounds. Cray slowly fatigued, Hammer” Golab def. Brian the third round, the referee inant boxer in the ring. For a Crepeau came into the match and Bennett’s intensity and “Half-man, Half hair” O’Connor stopped the fight and awarded few seconds, Hsu rushed with an offensive attitude that aggression tilted the fight in his The early lead by Golab Burns the victory by technical Tchoula against the ropes, but became apparent when he easi­favor. proved advantageous as he knockout. Tchoula’s left hook quickly ly drove Chen into the ropes a 
Bennett’s flurry of jabs in the defeated O’Connor in a battle of helped him out of it. Another few seconds into the first third round and his quickness juniors. Only a few seconds into Jason Healy def. Christopher left hook shot from Tchoula left round. Chen bounced out on his feet earned him the the first round, Golab had Orenchuk Hsu unable to recover and the before receiving any crucial unanimous decision. O’Connor against the ropes Healy, a junior, used a defen-referee called the fight with 25 damage and was able to return 
with aseries of hard combina-sive approachin the first round seconds leftin the first round. afew punches, but Crepeau’s 173 pounds tion punches. to outlast and defeat quickness and agilityin the ring 
In the second round, one Orenchuck, agrad student. Heavyweight Division did not allow Chen a shot at Alex Kissinger def. Jose right hook from O’Connor left Healy defended himself well weakeninghim. Aguirre Golab dizzy, off target and and waited for Orenchuk to tire Will “At the Edge of The break helped Chen reen­
Kissinger’s desire and talent unbalanced as Golab almost fell from his offensive strategy so Darkness” Burroughs def. ergize to get back in the fight, instantly showed as he used to the ground. he could secure the judges’ Kyle Roque but his inability to protect him­constantjabs to corner the grad The third round was the most votes. Burroughs defeated Roque self effectively gave Crepeau an student Aguirre. Midway definitive as Golab acquired a In the second round, midway through the first round opportunity to end the fight through the second round the number of points and threw a Orenchuk bounced back with when the referee stopped the early with the same right hook senior took complete control, series of powerful punches that more energy than before, but contest. In the first few sec-shot Chen saw before. Halfway knocking down Aguirre and O’Connor could not protect Healy remained unfazed by his onds, freshman Roque found through the second round, the forcing the referee to stop the himself from. Golab won in a opponent’s punches. himself pinned against the referee called the fight and fight. splitdecision from the judges. Healy unleashed his offensive ropes facing the law student, Crepeau was namedthe victor. 
strategy in the third round, dis-and was not able to pull himself Kevin “The Night Man” Kray 189 pounds playing more energy than away from Burroughs’ forceful Contact Tim Singler at def. John Bollman Orenchuk.The judges gave throws. The referee stoppedthe tsingler@nd.edu, Andrew Owens 
Kray used his height to his Bernardo “Blue” Garcia def. Healythe unanimous victory. contest with 45 seconds left in at aowens2@nd.edu , Matt advantage in his defeat of soph-Christopher “Stubs” Sarkis the first round. Robison at mrobison@nd.edu, omore Bollman,who used a The junior Garcia began the Luke Scullion def. Brian Kaitlyn Murphy at right hook to hang in with the match in control, but the fresh-“Caesar” Salat David “Dutch” Stedman def. kmurph28@nd.edu, Megan junior. man Sarkis quickly came back, Scullion’s drastic height Matthew “Tiny” Tansey Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu, 
In the third, Bollman led the knocking Garcia to the ground advantage proved the differ-Stedman, a senior, and Molly Sammon at offensive movement, largely to end the round. Garcia came ence-maker in a battle of con-Tansey looked evenly matched msammon@nd.edu, and Chris weakening Kray to the point back to begin the next round as trasting styles. from the beginning of the fight, Allen at callen10@nd.edu where Bollman appeared to strong as he had begun, and have an edge. Growing more took the match by a unanimous tired as the final seconds ticked decision. away, Bollman was unable to protect his face, and Kray Jim Hasson def. John Zivalich quickly took advantage of the Hasson, a junior, defeated his opportunity with powerful com-freshman opponent with 20 bination punches that led to the seconds left in the first round. judges’ split decision in Kray’s Early in the fight, Hasson favor. rushed Zivalich against the 
ropes where Zivalich quickly Michael “Nobody puts Baby in lost his balance and fell to the a Corner” Urciouli def. Jake ground. Hasson aggressively Joe pursued Zivalich with a series 
After a fairly neutral first of blows, causing the referee to round, the junior Urciouli came stop the fight before the first out with apowerful sequence of bell. jabs, landing more punches than his opponent. Despite the Timothy Wallace def. Patrick freshman Joe’s strong presence “The Paddy” Handy in the final round, Urciouli’s The junior Wallace came out aggression gave him the win by swinging against the energetic unanimous decision. freshman Handy, landing three 
significant combinations and 180 pounds opening up a number of cuts on 
Handy’s face to momentarily Mike Doran def. David “Played stop the fight in the first round. and it pleased the Lord” Handy regrouped and opened Fosselman the second round on the offen-
An even first round was not sive, but Wallace retaliated enough to satisfy the junior with a strong blow to Handy’s Doran, and it showed when he face, causing the referee to end picked up his pace in the sec-the fight and give Wallace the ond round, dodging the sopho-victorybytechnicalknockout. more Fosselman’s punches to maintain control. Fosselman William “The Italian Stallion” started the third round aggres-Straccia def. Adam “The sively, but Doran came back to Sultan of Swing” Zaabel take the match by unanimous Despite a solid performance decision. in the first round, the sopho­
more Zaabel was not able to Giacomo “Il Capo” Minafra keephis leadgoinglong enough def. Alex “Mac Attack” to beatStraccia, ajunior. Macomber In the first round, Zaabel 
Minafra took an early lead threw an early left hook shot that he kept for the duration of that sent Straccia into a corner the fight in his defeat of junior and shifted momentum in the Macomber. sophomore’s favor. 
Early in the first round, From the beginning of the Minafra pinned Macomber second round, Straccia seemed against the ropes as Macomber dazed, but he recovered by 


Wednesday, February 17, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
MLB 

Cardinals ready for McGwire’s coaching debut 
Associated Press 
JUPITER, Fla. — Mark McGwire’s No. 25 jersey is ready for duty again, hanging outside his locker stall in the St. Louis Cardinals‘ spring training clubhouse. 
The most controversial bat­ting instructor in the major leagues was due to arrive in Jupiter late Tuesday and could be on the field as early as Wednesday, the date for pitch­ers and catchers to report for St. Louis. 
Several of his pupils are already here, including second baseman Skip Schumaker, who is among a handful of Cardinals familiar with McGwire’s passion for hitting after offseason work­outs in California. He’s perhaps McGwire’s biggest booster on the team, having worked with the slugger he grew up idolizing since 2005. 
The leadoff hitter had one complaint: No longer will he have McGwire’s undivided attention. 
“I’m excited about it,” Schumaker said. “I’m not excit­ed I have to share him. He’s helped me a whole lot the last couple of years and I’m excited to have him for afull season.” 
Last month, McGwire ended more than a decade of denials and evasion by admitting that he used steroids and human growth hormone as he became a home run king. Schumaker said teammates will quickly learn that McGwire, though tarred and feathered by many as a poster boy for perform­ance-enhancing drugs and thus far locked out of the Hall of Fame despite his 583 homers, has plentyto offer. 
“He preaches consistency and not to have a roller coaster type of year, and to know your swing,” Schumaker said. “He’s convinced me I know my swing andhe’s always been super pos­itive.” 
As early arrivals to camp dodged boxes during the unpacking process from the move south, no one seemed too concerned that a media circus was coming to Roger Dean Stadium, the Cardinals’ spring home. Cardinals spokesman Brian Bartow did not expect a crush of national media for the official camp opening, even if McGwire suiting up appears to be the biggest story at the out­set. 
“I’m sure there’ll be a lot of stuffgoing on early, buthopeful­lythat’ll all move aside,” pitcher Kyle Lohse said. “I’ve heard a lot ofgoodthings abouthim and hopefully everybody will get their workdone in peace.” 
Big Mac’s return to baseball comes just over a month after admitting to steroids use during his dramatic power surge in the 1990s, includinghis then-record 70-homer season in ‘98. Whether his confession went far enoughis an open question. 
In January, the Cardinals were optimistic that McGwire would be able to fully focus on his coaching debut after he sub­mitted to a round of interviews and made two brief appear­ances in St. Louis. Manager Tony La Russa went beyond optimism, basically warning thatMcGwire would have plenty on his plate without revisiting his flawed career. 
“He has been more forthcom­ing than anybody yet,” La Russa said. “What more else is there to say? This is definitely go for­wardtime.” 
Bench coach Joe Pettini said simply: “I hope we don’t have to puthim on display.” 
Undoubtedly, there will be more questions when the 46­year-old McGwire shows up. His assertion that steroids allowed him to healfrom injuries butdid not offer a power boost was bothersome to many, with even general manager John Mozeliak weighingin againstthat notion. 
Until the hubbub dies down, the clubhouse and the field will be McGwire’s sanctuary. He fig­ures to get a royal reception from players who won’t judge him for any misdeeds from the past. 
Several pointed out that dur­ing McGwire’s heyday, pitchers had equal access to steroids. 
“I’m happy I wasn’t playing in that era so I didn’t have to even think about it,” said Joe Mather, a candidate for the Cardinals’ vacant third base job. “But you can’t really go back and judge somebody when you were never reallythere.” 
Growing up, Mather always wore McGwire’s number. 
“He was my guy,” Mather said. “I’m looking forward to it, that’s for sure. All I’ve heard is goodthings.” 
Schumaker has vivid memo­ries of watching Cardinals games during the 1998 season when McGwire broke Roger Maris’ single-season home run record during a dramatic race with Sammy Sosa, helping wipe away the lingering memories of the strike that wiped out the 1994 World Series. Looking back, he does notfeel cheated. 

“It was a great time for base­ball and he brought baseball back,” Schumaker said. “Nothing is tarnished for me. We have confidence in him, he’s our hitting coach and we’re excitedto work withhim.” 


page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, February 17, 2010 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles host Olivet in Senior Night rematch 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s hosts Olivet tonight in the Belles’ home finale and Senior Night, a must-win game if the Belles hope to claim thirdplace in the MIAA. 
The Comets will try to close out their season on a strong note in what will be their last contest ofthe year. 
Saint Mary’s (12-11, 7-7 MIAA) traveled to Olivet (7-17, 6-9) a month ago and came away with a three-point victory that required every bit of the Belles’ resolve. Saint Mary’s escaped the Cutler Event Center thanks to a 23-4 second-half run. The Comets pushed the Belles to the brink in their last meeting, and Belles coach Jennifer Henley said she expects nothingless this time around. 
“Our game with Olivet will certainly be a challenge,” Henley said. “They have great team speed and really work their inside-outside game.” 
Henley said she wants the Belles to focus on playing air­tight team defense, which begins with neutralizing Olivet’s low-post tandem of sophomore center Olivia Yarrell (11.3 points, 6.5 rebounds per game) and senior forward Gabrielle Federau (6.5 points, eight rebounds per game). The Comets are apt to look for kick-out passes that set up 3-point attempts by their guards, espe­cially sharpshooting junior Stephanie Stephar. 
“Our guards have to contest their outside shooters and not give up the open 3,” Henley said. “As a team, we need to stop putting teams at the foul line.” 
Saint Mary’s will depend on senior forward Anna Kammrath and sophomore forward Kelley Murphy to shut down Olivet’s inside presence, while junior guard Liz Wade and sophomore guard Patsy Mahoney will be tasked with defending the Cometbackcourt. 
Kammrath will also be hon­ored tonight as the team’s lone senior. A team captain, Kammrath has been a consis­tently strong performer for the Belles this year. Henley said she willbe sadto see her go. 
“I am very proud of the player she has become both on and off the court. These four years have gone by way too fast,” Henley said. “She certainly is leaving her mark, not only on this team, butthis program.” 
Saint Mary’s closes out its home schedule tonight against Olivet at7:30 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
NBA 
Thunder defeat Mavericks 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY — Caron Butler was hitting shots, Brendan Haywood was making a difference inside and the new-look Dallas Mavericks were rolling along. 
Then, the Oklahoma City Thunder roared back with an offensive flurry and their stingy defense to run away with a seventh straight victory. 
Kevin Durant had 25 points and 14 rebounds, rookie reserve James Harden added 17 points and Oklahoma City spoiled the debut of Dallas’ three new players in a 99-86 win Tuesday night. The sur­prising Thunder moved within a half-game of the scuffling Mavericks for fourth place in the Western Conference. 
“We’re on a nice streak right now, but they’re a humble group,” coach Scott Brooks said. “They’re looking forward to challenging each other tomorrow,” 
Butler scored 13 points and helped Dallas build an early 12-point lead after coming over in a weekend trade from Washington, but he finished 4 for 16 from the field and Oklahoma City charged ahead in the second half. 
Dirk Nowitzki scored 24 points, Jason Terry had 14 points and Jason Kidd had 12 assists for the Mavericks, who shot a season-low 32 percent. 
Starting center Erick Dampier had 13 rebounds but headed to the locker room with 2:54 remaining with an open dislocation of the middle finger on his right hand. He was expected to remain in Oklahoma City and have it sur­gically repaired before rejoin­ing the Mavericks. The team gave no immediate timetable for his return. 
“It was frustrating,” Dallas coach Rick Carlisle said. “I’m not going to make excuses about the trade. Right now, I’m just concerned about Damp’s situation.” 
The Thunder raged into the lead with a 40-point second quarter — their highest scor­ing period of the season — and then clamped down to hold Dallas to 11 points in the third quarter — the lowest output for the Mavs in any period this season. 
Serge Ibaka’s layup pushed the Thunder lead to 17 in the first 2 minutes of the fourth before the Mavericks finally mounted a comeback. Terry hit a 3-pointer before Kidd’s free throw cut it to 92-84 with 
3:37 remaining. Dallas didn’t score again until J.J. Barea’s meaningless layup with 16.3 seconds left. 
Lytle was once again a top performer for the Irish. He finished second and third in the 100 and 200 free, respectively. 
The Irish hope to take the positives from that meet into the Big East champi­onships this weekend as they attempt to win yet another league title. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
Big East 
continued from page 20 
Louisville, a team they defeated 166-134 at home on January 16. 
The last meet the Irish participated in was the Jan. 29-30 Shamrock Invitational. The Irish defeated Denver (245-124), but lost to Iowa (197-171) and Missouri (197-173) in the event. 
“It was a really hard meet and a real challenge for everyone involved,” Welsh said after the Shamrock Invitational. “The good news for us is that we swam better every session and our energy and competitiveness was solid throughout. Also, we are swimming faster than we were last year at this time.” 


Wednesday, February 17, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
ing with 15.3 points per game and in rebounding with 7.4 a
Harangody 
contest. Senior guard Edgar 
continued from page 20 Sosa follows with 13 points per 
game. “Obviously, he’ll make the trip The Irish perimeter shooting, and you’ve got to see how he however, has a chance to take reacts to the advantage of bicycle today t h e and reacts to Cardinals, 
actually  some  “Obviously, he’ll make  who  allow  
m o v e m e n t , shooting drills today and  the trip and you’ve got to see how he reacts to  opponents to shoot 34 per­cent from 3­ 
tomorrow, to see where he’s at. That’s kind of where we’re at,  the bicycle today and reacts to actually some movement.”  point range. Junior for­ward Tim Abromaitis  
we’re kind of  shoots  49  
day-to-day.” Brey said despite the sub- Mike Brey Irish coach  percent from 3-point range and senior  
.500 conference  guard  Ben  
record he was  Hansbrough  

confident in his team’s per-hits46percentofhis3s. formance and the future of the Without Harangody and his teamlookedbright. 24.1 points per game, the Irish 
“I’m veryhappy withhow we struggled against St. John’s do business,” Brey said. Sunday. Abromaitis scored 14 “Certainly we’d love to win points and the Irish hit nine 3­more BigEastgames and more pointers and shot well from NCAA Tournaments, but I’d field goal range and from the takemytrackrecord. foul line, but only put up 43 
“Peek ahead, I’m excited shots and could not keep up about young players in our pro-withtheRedStorm. gram. I’m excited about some Their current record has the the guards we Irish on the have coming, fringe of 
Scott Martin comingback.” Martin was  “Certainly we’d love to win more Big East  making the N C A A Tournament.  
lost for the sea­sonwhen hetore his anterior cru­ciate ligament  games and more NCAA Tournaments, but I’d take my track record.”  “Fighting into top half of this league is the world  
(ACL) in presea­ we’re  in  
sonpractice. Louisville has won three of its  Mike Brey Irish coach  now,” Brey said. “That’s our charge,  
last four games,  to fight to  
including a 66­ stay in the  
60 win on the  top half and  

road at No. 5Syracuse Sunday. makeyourrunfromthere.” The Cardinals also beat Tip-offisat7p.m.onESPN. ConnecticutathomeonFeb.1. 
Sophomore forward Samardo Contact Bill Brink at Samuelsleadstheteaminscor-wbrink@nd.edu 

“We just need to learn from it,” McGraw said. “We just have to put it behind us, and we’ve got to get our veterans to get us back on track.” 
The Irish will look to rebound at Georgetown Saturday. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
St. John’s 
continued from page 20 
finished with 14 rebounds and six blocks, both career highs. 
“I thought Devereaux Peters did a nice job on the boards,” McGraw said. “She blocked 

Dinner 
continued from page 20 
last year’s disappointing fail­ure to get into the NCAA Tournament behind it and focus on how it can make sure there are no questions this time around. 
“We felt based on our RPI, how many games we had won, and how we had finished the season that we would get into the NCAA Tournament,” Irish baseball coach Dave Schrage said. “So our team was in the locker room watch­ing the selection show when we did not get picked. There was silence for a good 10 minutes. Walking in to address to those individuals was probably the hardest speech I have ever had to give.” 
But the disappointment from last season quickly turned into motivation, as now the team is committed to making sure that rejection does not happen again. 
“Ever since that day from a coaching perspective and a player’s perspective we really have been focusing on making sure that there is no doubt this year that the NCAA selects us,” Schrage said. 
The team has committed to two mottos for this year, which Schrage has had put on some shots and rebounded well, but we didn’t have any­body else.” 
Notre Dame’s biggest con­cern will be a potential col­lapse in the toughest stretch of the season. Upcoming games against Georgetown on the road and Marquette at home leave the Irish little time to right the ship. 
T-shirts for every player. That motto is ‘898, committed to win,’ signifying the sum of all the players’ numbers on the team, and ‘one team, rock solid.’ The ‘898’ is meant to be a reminder that every member of the team is impor­tant if they are going to win, and the ‘one team, rock solid’ is meant to show that they have to do it together. 
To achieve these goals, Schrage has outlined a three-point plan. 
“Our number one goal is to care about each other,” Schrage said. “Selfishness lead to L’s, and selflessness leads to W’s. Every day when we wake up, we deliberatively and intentionally — those are the two words we use — we give the very best effort that we can. The third thing is that we need to be enthusiastic about that effort.” 
Reed, a rags-to-riches story at Notre Dame, went from flunking out of school as a freshman and facing working on an assembly line in Indiana to becoming one of the great stars at Notre Dame in both baseball and basket­ball, as well as playing with such great players as MLB legend Hank Aaron. Part of Reed’s fame is that he played an important role in Aaron’s record-breaking 715th home run to pass Babe Ruth on April 8, 1974. 
“But if you look at the bot­tom of that box score for that game it says, winning pitcher, Ronald Reed,” Reed said. 
Reed had one piece of advice for all the players that were in attendance, and that was a school related message. 
“I hope each and every one of you makes it to the big leagues, but there are no guarantees,” Reed said. “It is highly improbable, not impos­sible, but improbable. But what you have in the palm of your hand right now is a degree from the University of Notre Dame.” 
Kelly ended the dinner with an impassioned speech about what he believes a team is capable of once they have begun to focus on the process and habituating themselves to what it takes to succeed. 
“Because what this team is after this year is different,” Kelly said. “It is not just about winning games, because a lot of people know how to win games. What I think this baseball team is on the verge of is winning consistently. That’s the hard part.” 
The Irish will have their first shot at showing that con­sistency Friday at 1 p.m. when they take on Mississippi Valley State in Itta Bena, Miss. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, February 17, 2010 
feet and was able to avoid many decision. tolandmanypunches. 163 pounds punches. Mullen had atoughtime The freshman Kober’s efforts in 
Bouts 

landing shots against the senior Andrew Kristensen def. Andrew the third round distinguished him Jordan Bucci def. Adrian “Yo continued from page 20 because Bulger evaded well and “Fess the Mess” Fessler as the winner, as the referee Adrian” Moreno 
wasquickonhisfeet.Bulgerland-The two sophomores both came stopped the match for Cimino’s Returning champion and senior Thefighterstradedjabsinthefirst ed aseries ofpunches that almost out with abalanced approach, bloodiednose. Buccipicked up the pace midway round, but neither boxer was able knocked Mullen off of his feet. eachbeingpatient and waitingfor through the first round, showing togainaclearedge. Mullen fought well against Bulger his opportunity to strike. 160 pounds his experience against the sopho-
In the second round, the sopho-despitefallingshort. Kristensen jabbed wellthroughout moreMoreno.Inthesecondround moreRobillardfiredpunchesfrom the fight and Fessler consistently John “My Body is a Wonderland” Moreno evened the playing field, the start. The senior Lagoy held Matthew Lemanski def. Scott landed counters. After taking a Maier def. Colin “The Lion” King but Bucci began the third round his own, butRobillardfinishedthe “Rawr!” Lahr solid right hand to the head, The freshman King came flying fiercely with haymakers and did roundwithauthority. Both sophomores came out Fessler stumbled, but Kristensen out of the gate after the opening not back down. Bucci took the 
Robillard carried the momen-swinging early, and there was no could not capitalize. For most of bell, tryingto putthe senior Maier matchbyunanimousdecision. tum into the final round and clearleaderinthefirstround. thethirdround,thetwowentblow onhisheels. sealedthe unanimous victory over Lemanski had astrong second for blow. Kristensen won in asplit But Maier would not budge and Ryan “The Show Stopper” Lagoy. round, getting some strong shots decision. kept King from attacking with Shestak def. Andy Nester 
inonLahr. strategic jabs to the head. In the The two senior boxers looked Nicholas “The Guillotine” Goode Inthethirdround,Lemanskiput Bobby Powers def. Matt second round, King continued his strong and aggressive in the first def. Joseph “Sweet Cheeks” the finishingtouches on adecisive “Manimal” Roesch attempt to stay on the offensive, round, but it was Shestak’s size Decker victory. The referee stopped the Powers outpunched and outma-butMaier’s jabs would notlethim advantage and consistency that 
Although he faced aconstant match and named Lemanski the neuveredRoeschfrom bell to bell do so. In the third round, Maier earnedhimtheunanimousvictory. assault of punches, Goode won by winner. and exhibited what seemed like took over and solidified his unani-Nester didn’t give up despite unanimous decision over Decker. endless energy and aggression in mousvictory. Shestak’s intensity and forceful-Decker went after Goode aggres-Thomas “Shake and Bake” hisunanimousvictory. ness,andheretaliatedinthethird sively throughout the match, but Enzweiler def. Mike “It’s all about The freshman Roesch faced a Kevin Goodwin def. James round with a series of jabs to Goode utilized a number of good the Q” Quigley toughtaskin Powers’ experienced “Jimbo Slice” Bowers Shestak’s head. It was not enough defensive moves and was able to Enzweiler came out swinging and well-timed jabs to the head The senior Goodwin and fresh-to trump Shestak’s early domina­landsomesolidpunchesinhisvic-and never lookedback. The junior andbody. man Bowers put on agood show tion, and Shestak was awarded tory. almost knocked the sophomore Thejuniorislookingtomakehis asbothboxersbattledaggressively theunanimousvictory. 
Quigley off of his feet during the thirdtrip to the finals and win his through all three rounds. In the Michael “The Silver Slugger” first round. Enzweiler used his secondchampionship. first round, Goodwin landed afew Caleb Laux def. James “Marshall Sayles def. Anthony “El Gigante” long arms to his advantage by uppercuts to Bowers’ face, but Law” Ouderkirk Lucisano having the opportunity to land a 155 pounds Bowers’ retaliation was just as Senior Marshall’s firstpunch set 
Sayles came out attacking early, number of shots on Quigley. forceful. thetoneforthefirstround,butfel­trappingthefreshmanLucisanoin Enzweiler pinned Quigley against Ryan “Dayman” Slaney def. Chris The match continued in this lowseniorLauxcameintothesec­a corner. The senior captain was the ropes in the second round, “The Situation” Losco back and forth manner, as the ondroundlookingforacomeback. able to keep the intensity going whentherefereeendedthematch The senior Slaney controlledthe boxers fought just as hard in the His fire continued into the third throughoutthefirsttworounds. early and gave the victory to freshman Losco in every round. thirdroundastheydidinthefirst. round,whenbothfightersbrought 
The referee stopped the fight in Enzweiler. After an even start, Slaneylanded Intheend, it wasGoodwin’s initial intensity to make for an eventful the second round after aflurry of two solid rights and aquickleftto effortsthatwon himthesplitdeci-ending. Laux took the victoryin a strongpunchesfromSayles. 151 pounds knockLosco down. At the start of sion. splitdecision. 
thesecondround,Slaneycameout 140 pounds Tim “The Slayer” Thayer def. as the aggressor and put Losco Daniel “Cabbage Patch” 166 pounds 
Ethan “Chomp Chomp” Hatch immediately on the defensive. In Chapman def. James “Rambo” Michael Johnston def. Kareem Both fighters came out with the third round, Slaney went for Fultz Matthew Gimlett def. Jack “The “Stunna” Salem steady,balancedattacks,eachjab-the knockout shot, but Losco The sophomore Chapman con-Ripper” Healy 
The senior Johnston pinned bing andlanding solid shots to the would not go down and stood trolled most of this bout, as the The freshman Healy began the Salem against the ropes afew headandbody. strong. Slaney won in aunani-freshman Fultz could not land the fight with abang, quickly corner­timesashewasabletolandmany After astiff right hand to his mousdecision. counterhewaslookingfor. inghissenioropponent.Butasthe punches in his unanimous victory. opponent’s head, the senior cap-For most of the fight, Chapman fight continued, Gimlett’s seniority Byrushingthelawstudentagainst tainThayerbegantotakeoverthe Adam “Mad” Cowden “Disease” dealt out asteadydiet ofleft-right showed through. Asteady stream the ropes, Johnston was able to round. def. John “The Caucasian Asian” combinations,occasionallylanding ofjabs in the third round secured outlastSalemashisenergydeplet-In the second round, Thayer Crabtree clean shots to Fultz’s head. After Gimletthisunanimouswin. ed towards the end of the match. came out dealing again, landing The junior Cowden, with a twocloserounds,Chapmanstayed Johnston’s quickfeet allowedhim two right-handed uppercuts. decided height and reach advan-on the offensive in the third round Jason “Pretty Boy” Miller def. toevadeafewofSalem’spunches. Hatchrecovered,butThayercame tage, employed asteady dose of andwonbyunanimousdecision. Michael “Caveman” Abercrombie 
right back with another tough jabs to Crabtree’s head. The soph-Miller’s senior status provided Brian “The Good Thief” Heath combination before the referee omore stayed low to avoid those Alex “Gatito Loco” Oloriz def. him with experience against soph­def. Andrew “The A-Train” ended the fight after the second jabs andconsistentlyreached with Joseph “McManimal” McMahon omoreAbercrombie. Ziccarelli round and declared Thayer the swooping hooks withboth hands. Olorizestablishedhisdominance While Abercrombie was quick 
ZiccarelliandHeathhadahard-winner. After two close rounds, Cowden early in the first round, as he on his feet anddodgedthe punch-fought first round in which the begantoasserthimselfinthethird focused on jabs to the body and es ofMiller to the best ofhis abili­fighters exchanged some punches Tommy “The Hebrew Hammer” and stayed on top for the rest of McMahonquicklytired. ties, Miller’s shots to the stomach andstruggledtosetanearlytone. Schanzer def. Michael “Face for the round. He won by unanimous Olorizcontinuedtostringtogeth-andflurry ofjabs to the head was 
Heath, a senior, controlled the the Radio” Magill decision. er multiple forceful jabs to the too much for “Caveman” to han­second round and ended with a A ho-hum first round set the head and stomach in the second dle. strong finish. Although Heath tal-tone for the senior Schanzer to Kyle “No Name Just Game” round and pinned McMahon Miller pinned Abercrombie lied some big jabs on Ziccarelli, dictate the second round against Kober def. Dominic “Chef againsttheropesonmultipleocca-against the ropes on numerous thejunior from DillonHallheld on the sophomore. Schanzer’s second Boyardee” Cimino sions. occasions and won a unanimous forabitlonger. round created clear separation in Bothboxers’longlimbsprevent-Although McMahon, ajunior, victory. 
Heath,however,provedtobetoo thefight. ed much contact in the early refusedtogiveup,Olorizprevailed much in the final round, sealing The senior won in aunanimous rounds, as neither boxer was able inaunanimousdecision. see BOUTS/page 14 the victory with a strong showing, highlightedbytwo bigpunches on Ziccarelli. He won in a split deci­sion. 
Nick “Bronco” Bortolotti def. Michael “In n’ Out” Burdell 
Bortolotti’s experience was evi­dentduringthismatchasheland­edmanygoodpunchesagainstthe senior Burdell. The sophomore Bortolotti connected a number of timesin thesecondround.Burdell foughtatoughmatchbutcameup short. Bortolotti won by unani­mousdecision. 
Albert Toscano def. Matthew Dobleman 
Toscano proved to be a relent­less fighter with a strong effort early and often. Although each fighter shared a lot of intensity in round one, the sophomore Toscano simply would not go down. 
Toscano was the clear leader heading into the final round, and he finished strong to earn the vic­toryinaunanimousdecision. 
147 pounds 
Kieran Bulger def. Sean “The Machine” Mullen 
BulgerdefeatedMullenbyunan­imous decision as he kept quick 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  
25  26  27  28  29  30  31  32  33  
34  35  36  37  
38  39  40  41  
42  43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  
53  54  55  56  57  58  59  60  
61  62  63  
64  65  66  
67  68  69  

Wednesday, February 17, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
62 Certain weddingparticipants … or a hint to 17-, 28­and 46-Across? 
64 Massachusetts' Cape ___ 
65 Gretzky's team from 1979 to 1988 
66 Dart 
67 Marks (out) 
68 Band aide 
69 Jot 
Down 
1 ___-fry 
2 Fix 
3 Elec., e.g. 
4 Paris's ___ d'Orsay 5 By tradition 6 Tucker (out) 7 What circles lack 8 From ___ Z 9 Pelvis part 
10 Early trial
presentation 
11 “Qué ___?” 
12 Airline whose 
meals are all kosher 
13 Microwaves 
18 Org. with a “Designate a Driver” program
22 Zipperalternative 
24 Certain amino acid 
25 Prickly shrub 
26 Gibson's “Ransom” co­star, 1996 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

Puzzle by Kevan Choset  
27 Flat rates?  39 Assumes to be  55 Dict. offerings  
29 First-aid item 30 Ancient lawgiver 31 Slowly 32 “Silas Marner” author  44 Opposed 47 James Bond antagonist ___ Largo 48 Masculine side  56 Was in the red 57 Actress Gilpin of“Frasier” 58 Folkie Guthrie  
33 Like non-oystermonths 35 Start of a  52 Film genre 53 Role in “Troy”  59 Narrow cut 60 It is, in Peru  
musical series  54 Loudness unit  63 Suffix with Victr- 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Across 
1 Pond film 5 Relaxed 11 Candy in a dispenser 14 Noted archbishop 15 Cigarette
additive? 16 Like 17 Author of “The 
Sea, the Sea” 19 One likely to be
taken in 20 Films have them 21 Harvard and 
Yale, e.g. 23 Internet address 
ending 24 Friction fighter 25 [It's chilly!] 28 Henry James
heroine 34 Regretted 36 English facilities 
37 Immune system agent 
38 Playground retort 
40 Mid sixth-century year 
41 Morton who founded Morton's steakhouses 
42 Latin stars 
43 College in NewRochelle, N.Y. 
45 Plains Indians 
46 Noted mother of 
nine 
49 Notations on some game scores 
50 Unit of cultural 
information 
51 Anatomical duct 
53 Francis' home 
56 Unsolved crime 
61 Something you
might jump for 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Wednesday, February 17, 2010 page 20 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

No. 3 Notre Dame upset on the road by Red Storm 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
The first loss of the season is generally the hardest pill to swallow, but Tuesday’s 76-71 defeat at the hands of St. John’s will be one that Notre Dame thinks about for a long time. The Irish fell behind 18­6 within the game’s first six minutes and were never able to overcome the deficit, as St. John’s upset the No. 3 team in the country. 
“We finally had a game where nobody played well,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “We had a lot of lapses defensively. Offensively, we shot the ball poorly, and we just really didn’t get back in transition.” 
The Irish (23-2, 10-2 Big East) have now fallen on the road to the Red Storm (21-5, 9-4) in three straight meet­ings. Playing without side­lined senior guard Lindsay Schrader, who did not play because of an ankle injury, the Irish ran into a dangerous St. John’s team playing with confidence after playing No. 1 Connecticut more tightly than any other Big East team in a 66-52 loss. 
“It’s always tough to play on the road,” McGraw said. “I think we looked fatigued. You just have to give the credit where credit’s due. St. John’s outplayed us. I don’t think we can talk about whether Schrader would have made a difference.” 
Notre Dame was a notice­ably different team Tuesday without Schrader. The Irish shot 36.2 percent from the field, down from their season average of 45.1 percent, and were held without a field goal for more than six minutes in the second half. 
Shenneika Smith’s 23 points and 10 rebounds paced St. John’s, which had three play­ers in double figures by the break. 
Despite an overall lackluster team effort, Notre Dame had several players turn in note­worthy performances. Junior guard Brittany Mallory added 17 points, and freshman guard Skylar Diggins tallied a team-high 20 points, with 18 coming in the second half. Junior forward Devereaux Peters, one of the few bright spots on the defensive end, 
see ST. JOHN’S/page 17 


BENGAL BOUTS 

Domination station 
Cugliari defeats Perez by unanimous decision 
By TIM SINGLER, ANDREW 
OWENS, MATT ROBISON, 
KAITLYN MURPHY, MEGAN 
FINNERAN, MOLLY 
SAMMON and CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writers 
133 pounds 
Chris “Cougar” Cugliari def. Michael “Boricua” Perez 
Cugliari came out swinging early and never let upthroughout thematch.Atonepointinthesec­ondround,Cugliaripinnedhisfel­low senior against the ropes for eight seconds of continuous punches. Cugliari’s quick feet allowed him to evade numerous punches thrown by Perez. Perez fought hard throughout the three rounds, and put forth a tough fight. Cugliari won by unanimous decision. 
Brian “Ghost Hands” Robillard def. Jonathan “Nightman” Lagoy 
EILEEN VEIHMEYER/The Observer 

Senior Chris Cugliari, right, connects with a right hand against senior Michael Perez Tuesday see BOUTS/page 18 during a quarterfinal match in the 133 lb. weight division. 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish look to reverse road woes 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
Wintwo,losetwo. 
Thathas definedNotre Dame’s successes and failures of late. The Irish followed two straight losses with two wins at home, only to lose two more on the road. 
The Irish (17-9, 6-7 Big East) travel to Louisville tonight to face the Cardinals (16-9, 7-5), further testing Notre Dame’s ability to win a conference game ontheroad. 
The injury to senior forward Luke Harangody won’t help. Harangody suffered a bone bruise to his right knee in a loss to Seton Hall last week and did not play Sunday in a 69-68 loss toSt.John’s. 
“He rode the bike yesterday, he’llshootalittlebittoday,”Irish coach Mike Brey said. 
see HARANGODY/page 17 
BASEBALL 

Kelly speaks at opening night 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish kicked their sea­son off in style last night with the annual Baseball Opening Night Dinner highlighted by Major League Baseball star and Notre Dame alumnus Ron Reed and Irish football coach Brian Kelly as keynote speak­ers. 
The star power had even Kelly wide-eyed. 
“It is so different at Notre Dame than anywhere else I’ve been, that being a part of this university you are immediate­ly around greatness and you are always meeting great people,” Kelly said. 
Notre Dame is ready to put 
see DINNER/page 17 


ND SWIMMING & DIVING 
Squad looks to add to conference title count 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
This weekend, the Irish and coach Tim Welsh have the opportunity to add more hardware to the tro­phy case as they head to Pittsburgh for the Big East championships. 
Notre Dame has won four of the last five Big East championships, and is look­ing to make it five of six. 
Senior John Lytle will play a key role in Notre Dame’s attempt to win another title. In last year’s Big East championships, Lytle gave the 400-yard free relay team a lead they would not relinquish. He came from behind in the first leg and his teammates were able to hold the lead. Lytle also set a school record in the 100 free last year. 
“He’s quite a racer,” Welsh said earlier this month. “He’s extremely competitive. We’re very proud of him. He has done everything for us.” 
The Irish defeated Pittsburgh, a main competi­tor in the Big East every season, in their only match this season, 179-121. The only other Big East team the Irish faced was 
see BIG EAST/page 16 





