the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Anti-theistandChristiandebatereligion 
Hitchens and D’Souza argue the merits of evolution, faith and the existence of a supernatural power 
By SARAH MERVOSH 

News Editor  
Anti-theist Christopher  
Hitchens and Christian Dinesh  
D’Souza may initially appear  
to have nothing in common.  
Hitchens argues the merits  
of evolution, while D’Souza  
argues for the existence of a  
supernatural power. In the  
absence of evidence, Hitchens  
doubts, while D’Souza defers  
to faith.  
But despite their opposing  
views, both figures had one  
thing in common — they  
approached religion from a  
purely logical, factual perspec­ 
tive when speaking to a sold- 
out audience in Wednesday’s  
debate at the DeBartolo  
Performing Arts Center.  
Hitchens said religion is  
merely a man-made attempt to  
make sense of the world.  
“Religion was our first  
attempt to make sense of our  
surroundings. It was our first  
attempt at health care, in a  
way,” Hitchens said. “It was  
our first attempt at psychiatric PAT COVENEY/The Observer  
care, at dealing with terrible Anti-theist Christopher Hitchens, left, debates Christian apologist Dinesh D’Souza, right, during the  
loneliness of the human condi­event titled “Is Religion the Problem?” in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Wednesday.  
tion.  
“It is the worst attempt, but  
partly because it was the  transition between one life  these things?”  tics of the creator who made it  
first.”  form and the other.”  Hitchens said humans do  that way,” he said.  
Hitchens said evolution and  D’Souza said evolution also  good deeds because they wish  D’Souza also said he favored  
the big bang theory should be  fails to explain human evil,  to.  religion simply because it was  
used to explain the world and  rationality and in particular,  “I’ll tell you why. It gives me  the more likely explanation.  
human existence. Meanwhile,  morality.  great pleasure to do so,” he  “If we see a fine tuned uni- 
D’Souza pointed out flaws in  “Think of a couple of moral  said. “I enjoy the sort of people  verse, what’s more likely?  
evolutionary theory and said  facts. Think of simple things.  it makes me come in contact  Someone fine tuned it or it fine  
religion is the best explanation  Getting up to give your seat to  with. And I like giving blood.”  tuned itself?” he said. “Let’s go  
for essential human questions.  an old lady in the bus. Giving  But D’Souza said these moral  with the best explanation,”  
“Evolution doesn’t explain  blood,” he said. “Now if we are  characteristics exist because  D’Souza said. “If you go to a  
the presence of life on the  evolved primates who are pro- humans were made in the like- village and 95 percent of the  
planet,” D’Souza said.  grammed to survive and  ness of God.  
“Evolution merely explains the  reproduce, why would we do  “Those are the characteris­ see DEBATE/page 6  



Hall first to receive LEED certification 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Geddes Hall recently became the first building at Notre Dame to achieve LEED Gold Certification and will pave the way for future environmentally conscious efforts that build upon the University’s emphasis on ethics and sustainability. 
“What this means is that the United States Green Building Council (USGBC), a non-profit company that established the LEED certification system, has confirmed that the building has met a certain standard of sus­tainable design and construction practices,” University architect Doug Marsh said. 
According to the USGBC Web site, LEED certification is based on building strategies that emphasize energy savings, water efficiency, carbon dioxide emissions reduction and sensi­tivity to environmental impact. 
Geddes Hall houses both the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) and the Institute for Church Life (ICL). 
CSC director Fr. Bill Lies said Geddes Hall is a place that offers “a much more gracious wel­come” to the community. 
“‘The environment is God’s gift to everyone, and in our use of it we have a responsibility towards the poor, towards future genera-
see GEDDES/page 6 



Archbishop discusses Catholic globalization 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
The Catholic Church must find new ways to integrate social action in order to help build a better global society, Archbishop of Munich and Freising Reinhard Marx said at the Terrence R. Keeley Vatican Lecture Wednesday. 
Marx, one of the most recog­nized thinkers in the German Catholic Church, delivered the annual speech to a large crowd including University President Fr. John Jenkins and President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. 
“One of the benefits of being a Catholic university is that we are part of the universal Church and often the universal Church comes to us,” Jenkins said in his opening remarks. “Bishop Marx will add to our thoughts about the conflicts of the modern world and the Church.” 
Marx recently published a book titled “Das Kapital,” which he used as a framework for his talk about the value of Catholic social teaching and tradition in today’s globalized world. 
“When I speak about social 
see BISHOP/page 6 



ROTCholdsIronIrishcontest 

By AMANDA GRAY 
Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame’s Army ROTC Iron Irish competition tested more than physical strength Wednesday. 
The second year of the annual competition placed the four army platoons against each other, racing across campus to complete tasks, Cadet Second Lieutenant and senior Scott Vitter said. 
Platoon B1 won after perform­ing well through several of the events, Vitter said. 
“We did very well on the swimming portion,” he said. “Overall, we came out on top.” 
see ROTC/page 6 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Bonfire fundraiser for Haiti page 3  Hilfiger comes to University page 10  Football spring practice continues page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Thursday, April 8, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Bryant is better 

I’ve been waiting to do this for a while now so here goes. Kobe Bryant is better than Lebron James. 
Despite the recent attempts by Nike to sell more shoes, LBJ should-n’t even be in the same conversation as Kobe, let alone puppet commer ­cials that depict the two as best friends. 
Don ’t get me wrong. Lebron is probably the most athletic player in Chris Masoud NBA history. He can jump higher, 

Assistant 
drive faster, and 

Sports Editor
dunk stronger than any player in the league. He can virtually score at will, and his backside block-from­behind has become a trademark. 
I’m just not ready to crown him as the league’s best player, or even the best scorer. 
James is 25 years old. In his sev­enth year in the league, he has one MVP award and has only appeared in the NBA Finals once. Bryant had three titles by his sixth year. 
But what about the undisputed-greatest -of all -time, Michael Jordan? 
Jordan didn’t get his first NBA Championship until he was 28 years 
old in his seventh year in the league. But by that age, he had played three years at North Carolina, led the league in scoring four consecutive years, and had two MVP awards while missing most of his sophomore season with a broken foot. 
For Lebron to be considered greater than either Kobe or Jordan, he would have to win the next three NBA titles, lead the league in scor­ing at least two of those years, and win at least one more MVP award. 
Given his success this season, the MVP and scoring title are probably a lock. But the game has changed. With the exception of the Spurs’ recent run, dynasties are becoming less and less common. Even if he did win the next three titles, he would still have to shake off the “Shaq-effect” like Kobe did last year. 
I haven’t even mentioned the weaknesses in his game. Lebron still can ’t hit an open 25 -foot jumper to save his life. Most of his points come in the paint, half of which come off the “crab-dribble” that refs are too intimidated to call traveling. 
Bryant’s game is complete. He can shoot the ball lights out up to 40 feet. He can bust off dribble-drives, pass, and play lockdown defense. Most importantly, you can trust him to take the lost shot. He’s made seven game-winners this season alone. 
If I’ve offended any Cleveland fans in this process, just relax. Take comfort in the fact that Lebron will probably be wearing a Knicks jersey next year anyway, so if he doesn’t win it all this year, he never will. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOUR SUMMER PLA S? 






Hallie Brewster  Bobby Sullivan  Hugo Lozano  Chris Mork  Katie Mastrucci  Deepali Doddi  
sophomore Walsh  sophomore Sorin  sophomore Duncan  freshman Sorin  senior Pasquerilla East  law student Fischer Grad  
“Going home to California and spending lots of time on the beach, but hopefully having an internship.”  “Ask me in August.”  “I’m just going home to Mexico, but maybe an internship.”  “I’m doing an internship in Chicago.”  “I’m going to be working at my mom’s law firm and going to Disney Land for the Harry Potter park.”  “I’m studying for the Bar exam because I’m a law student.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

JAMES DOAN/The Observer His Excellency Archbishop Reinhard Marx of Munich and Friesing, Germany speaks to a group of students and faculty Wednesday at the annual Terrence R. Keeley Vatican Lecture at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
OFFBEAT 
8-year-old attempts to fill up family van with gas, crashes 
BETHEL, Ohio — An Ohio man says his 8-year-old son was just trying to do him a favor and get gaso­line when the boy drove the family’s minivan and crashed it. James Crouch says he didn’t even realize his son, Jordan, was out of the house Friday morning until a Clermont County sheriff’s deputy came to the family’s home in Bethel and woke him up to let him know what happened. 
The boy says he used keys that he found in his mother’s purse and backed the car out of the driveway. 
He started going down the road at about 5 mph but could barely reach the ped­als and lost control, crash­ing into a telephone pole. He wasn’t hurt. 
Crouch says Jordan was still in his pajamas and just wanted to do something nice. He says he’s going to watch his son more closely now 
Man accused of stealing vacuum with kids present 
FRAMINGTON, N.Y. — An upstate New York man was accused of stealing a vacuum cleaner from a department store on Friday — with his children there. State police said Richard Dekenipp was charged with endangering the welfare of a child and robbery. After the 42­year-old man allegedly stole the vacuum cleaner, police said he struck a security guard with his car in the parking lot. 
The guard wrote down his license plate and Dekenipp was later arrested at his home. His car was found abandoned at the Finger Lakes Gaming and Racetrack parking lot. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Friday Saturday 

IN BRIEF 
“All Art is Propaganda” will be displayed at 8 a.m. today. The exhibition will be available in the Hesburgh Library. 
The “2010 BFA/MFA Candidates’ Theses Exhibition” will open at 10 
a.m. today in the O’Shaughnessy Galleries in the Snite Museum of Art. 
“Yin Yu Tang: A Chinese Home” will be on exhibit at 10 a.m. today in the Scholz Family Works on Paper Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art. 
The SMC Tostal Carnival will begin at noon today. Inflatables and a mechanical bull will be available on the Library Green at Saint Mary’s College. 
“Rethinking Rwanda, 1994” will be held at 12:30 
p.m. today in C103 Hesburgh Center. 
A seminar titled “Structural Topology Optimization” will begin at 3:30 p.m. today in 118 Niewland Science Hall. 
The “Catholicism at the Crossroads” Spring lecture series will begin at 7:30 p.m. today in Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary’s College. 
The SMC Tostal will hold a concert featuring Josh Kelley and Jon McLaughlin at 8 p.m. today in O’Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary’s College. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Sunday Monday 


Atlanta 66 / 43 Boston 65 / 51 Chicago 44 / 33 Denver 60 / 39 Houston 73 / 47 Los Angeles 77 / 53 Minneapolis 56 / 33 New York 80 / 55 Philadelphia 84 / 54 Phoenix 87 / 59 Seattle 48 / 38 St. Louis 57 / 38 Tampa 82 / 66 Washington 84 / 53 
Thursday, April 8, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Bonfire to raise funds for Haiti 
Students remember earthquake, continue to collect monetary donations 
By KATIE PERALTA 
News Writer 
The 7.0-magnitude earth­quake that devastated Haiti might have occurred three months ago, but several campus organizations are refusing to let the tragedy be forgotten. 
“Forgetting what hap ­pened is the worst thing that we could do to our brothers and sisters in Haiti,” said Paul Jindra, International Development Research Council (IDRC) president. “The rebuilding effort will likely continue for years, so it ’s crucial that we keep Haiti and its citizens in mind even now, months after the earthquake.” 
The IDRC 
from 8 p.m. to midnight. 
The event will feature a celebration of Haitian culture, from tradi­tional music to authentic cuisine. 
Jindra said IDRC has 

assembled a playlist of Tickets for the event, Haitian music and will be which are $10 in advance using a student DJ. and $15 Friday night, will be “If you ’ve never heard sold in front of the dining 
Haitian hip- h a l l s . A l l  
hop before, it r e a l l y i s  “We wanted to give  p r o c e e d s , Jindra sai d,  
i n c r e d i b l e , ” h e s a i d . “ A l o t o f t h e s e  students an opportunity to experience the  w i l l g o d i r e c t l y t o t h e N o t r e  
artists on the  customs and the history  D a m e H a i t i  
H a i t i a n music scene c o u l d b e  and the heritage of the Haitian people.”  R e s p o n s e f u n d , w h i c h supports the  
r a d i o -r e a d y  R e d C r o s s ,  
even here in  Pal Jindra  C a t h o l i c  
the U.S.” T h e f o o d , h e s a i d , i s  president IDRC  R e l i e f S e r v i c e s , F r i e n d s o f  
f r o m t h e  Orphans, the  
U n i v e r s i t y  Congregation  

catering service, Catering By 
Design, but will be prepared using authentic Haitian recipes. 
and the “Forgetting what Jindra said K e l l o g the event aims 
happened is the
Institute ’s to shed a posi-Haiti Working worst thing that we tive light on Group will could do to our Haiti. sponsor a “All we saw 
brothers and
Haiti Bonfire on the news 
sisters in Haiti.” 
Party on Holy [after the Cross Hill on earthquake] the shore of was destruc ­
Paul Jindra 
Saint Mary’s tion, but that 
president
Lake Friday didn’t reflect 
IDRC 
Haiti’s truly brilliant cul ­ture,” Jindra 

said. “We wanted to give students an opportunity to experience the customs and the history and the heritage of the Haitian people.” 
of the Holy Cross and the Notre Dame Haiti Program. 
“[These are] all organiza­tions doing incredible work in an unimaginably difficult setting,” Jindra said. 
Sophomore Matthew Razzano, who will take over as IDRC president in the fall, plans to continue events on campus that raise aware­ness and funding for rebuilding efforts in Haiti. 
“We are planning more Coffee and Conversations ea rly next year to get students thinking about the aftermath of the earthquake and the developmental issues that were unearthed by the dis­aster,” he said. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta @nd.edu 
Hilfigerofferswords ofbusinesswisdom 
By LILY HOUGH 
News Writer 
He may be the king of a global fashion empire, but there is one dream that Tommy Hilfiger never saw through. 
“I thought I should be a profes­sional 
See Also 
footb all p l a y e r, ” “Tommy Hilfger: Hilfig er 
A designer for the
said to an audience consumer” 
of Notre 
page 10
Dame fac­ulty and students as he began a presentation in the Eck Auditorium Wednesday afternoon to share his busi­ness experiences and suc­cesses. Hilfiger entered the auditorium carrying a Notre Dame football helmet while and told the story of his failed football career, which ended, he said, after an unsuccessful tryout for the high school team in his hometown Elmira, N.Y. 
“As a result of that failure, I decided to do something else,” Hilfiger said. “I decided to become a businessman.” 
Hilfiger began selling jeans out of the trunk of his car in a high school parking lot at age 18. Hilfiger’s parents preferred he go to college and focus on a more practical career than his updated busi­ness venture, a newly opened clothing shop called People’s Place, Hilfiger said. 
“They said, ‘You’re crazy. There’s no way you’ll ever be able to do that.’ ” Hilfiger said. “But I said, ‘This is what I want to do.’ I said, ‘I will do this.’ I took the path of resistance.” 
A self-taught businessman at the age of 19, Hilfiger wanted to bring big city fash­ion from New York City to his local community in upstate New York and began design­ing his own ideas when the trends of the late ‘60s left him and his customers unsat­isfied, Hilfiger said. 
“I wanted to build a differ­ent mousetrap,” Hilfiger said. “I wanted to reach back into my roots when I wore preppy clothes in grammar and early high school and redesign them. So I took every single one of those items out of my closet and redesigned every detail.” 
Looking back, Hilfiger said his biggest regret was skip­ping out on college. 
“I opened up my store and I said, this is my education,” he said. “But if I had been smart enough to go to busi­ness school, I would have avoided some major pitfalls.” 
Hilfiger said today, he con­siders hitting bankruptcy at 22 his greatest learning expe­rience. 
“That was my master’s degree,” he said. 
Hilfiger said his subsequent successes after introducing his trademark red, white and blue logo can be attributed to his first private collection in 1985. 
“I was at the right place at the right time, but I had the right product,” he said. “I was studying business myself, trying to figure out what was this role in business that would set us apart from com­petition. I wanted to under­stand what it was that would really push the buttons on the consumer and I figured it out.” 
Yet while still flourishing overseas, the American base of Hilfiger’s empire appeared to be headed for ruin in the late ‘90s after he seemed to have a monopoly over men’s, women’s and children’s casu­al fashions for the greater part of the decade, Hilfiger said. He said he blamed his business team’s faux pas of oversupplying the demand — a “business no-no.” 
“Boiled down to its simplest form, business is simple arithmetic … really a simple philosophy. It’s about supply and demand,” he said. “That’s something they teach in every business school, but we learned it ourselves and we learned it the hard way.” 
Today, Hilfiger said his recipe for success remains true to his original philoso­phy: right quality, right prod­uct, right price, right market­ing, right technical fit, right people wearing your clothes and right stores selling them. 
“It’s all about finding a niche,” he said. “Many people ask me why I think we’re so successful and I have one standard answer — It’s always about the people. I have been fanatical about surrounding myself with great people. A great team will bring you great success.” 
In 1995, he established the Tommy Hilfiger Corporate Foundation to help empower America’s youth and as his fashion trends gain global esteem, his charitable endeavors follow. The Foundation recently announced its $2 million donation to Millennium Promise, a non-profit organi­zation founded in 2005 to combat extreme world pover­ty. 
“We’re becoming much more responsible as human beings and that is very mean­ingful to me,” Hilfiger said. 
While Hilfiger’s presenta­tion resonated with business lessons to “be creative … never stop learning, never stop exploring,” in his discus­sion of the company’s philan­thropic successes, a stronger message prevailed. 
“If I were to talk about what I’m proudest about as a businessman, I am proudest of the fact that we are a giv­ing, loving company,” and that will probably go down in history as the company’s greatest contribution, Hilfiger said. 
“At the end of the day, they’re just clothes really,” Hilfiger said. 
Contact Lily Hough at lhough1@nd.edu 



page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 8, 2010 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
Recently elected SGA officersmeetforfirsttime 
By MEGHAN PRICE 
News Writer 
The new Saint Mary’s board of Student Government Association (SGA) began the 2010-11 term when it held its first meeting Wednesday night. The main pur­pose of the meeting was for the new officers to get to know one another and for them to discuss their goals and expectations for the next academic year. 
SGA president Rachael Chesley and SGA vice president Laura Smith took over in office on April 1. 
“Laura and I are fairly new to this,“ Chesley said to the other officers. “We have already learned a lot about SGA over the past month and we are looking forward to learning more from you and getting your help and input. We are very excited about getting started on this coming year.” 
Wednesday’s meeting was the first for many SGA officers. 
Chesley said her and Smith’s goal was to integrate equal amounts of experienced students with new students who have fresh perspective. They said they feel that this was the best possible way to serve the student body. 
SGA discussed that they want to get more involved with the stu­dent community. Among many other comments, the Board told Chesley and Smith they thought it would be good if they were visible around campus and at campus events. 
They also talked about how SGA meetings and offices are open to the student body and ways to get the students more interested in attending them. The board will attempt to increase attendance at the SGA meetings in order to hear what issues students care about. 
“If I was in the SGA meeting or in the office, I felt like I was some­where I wasn’t supposed to be,” Smith said. “We need to change that and make sure students feel welcome.” 
Patrick Daniel, director of Student Involvement, was at the meeting and told the officers they needed to get the student body behind issues they believed in strongly. 
He also said the new Board needed to make sure when they choose issues, they are represent­ing the average Saint Mary’s stu­dent. 
Some of the issues the Board intends to address in the coming year are networking between clubs on campus and the avail­ability of service project opportu­nities for students. 
The Board will continue to meet every Wednesday until the end of the year. 
Contact Meghan Price at mprice02@saintmarys.edu 
STUDENT SENATE 
Soler, Bell set tone for year 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Student body president Catherine Soler and vice president Andrew Bell, who took office on April 1, set the tone for the upcoming year’s administration and welcomed the new senators to student government as they led their first meeting of the Student Senate Wednesday. 
Soler, Bell and the senators swore to “preserve, protect and defend the constitution of the student body” as they offi­cially assumed their posi­tions. 
The initial meeting of the new Senate established com­mittee chairs and introduced new members to their responsibilities. 
An executive order from Soler created a new commit­tee to deal with off-campus concerns. 
The new committee will compile many of the off-cam­pus projects, such as Transpo, that were handled by various committees during the last administration, Off-Campus Concerns Committee chair Emily LeStrange said. 
The agenda for the new committee includes continu­ing to improve the Transpo service for students, educat­ing off-campus students about improving their relationships with their neighbors in the local community and arrang­ing student discounts at off-campus restaurants. 
One of the committee’s goals is to “expand beyond just the bubble of Notre Dame,” LeStrange said. 
The senators approved all nominations for committee chair positions. The nominees outlined the mission of their committees and their plans for the upcoming year. 
The Community Relations committee, chaired by Claire Sokas, plays an important role in the upcoming Communiversity Day, and Sokas said she hopes to work on similar projects to engage students with the South Bend community. 
Gender Issues Committee chairs Mariah McGrogan and Tim Castellini plan to address issues of gender, sexual ori­entation and the development of gender resources. 
“The most important thing about this committee is trying to make [these issues] more accessible to the student body,” Castellini said. 
Social Concerns Committee chair Patrick McCormick said his committee would be work­ing on the hunger initiative that was included in Soler and Bell’s election platform. 
Other approved committee chairs include Mick Mulhall for Academic Affairs, Casey Cockerham for Campus Technology, Matt High for Residence Life, Chase Riddle for University Affairs, Brigitte Githinji for Multicultural Affairs and Paige Becker for Oversight. 
The student senators unani­mously passed resolutions bestowing emeritus status on former student body presi­dent Grant Schmidt, former vice president Cynthia Weber and former chief of staff Ryan Brellenthin. Veteran members of student government voiced their support for last year’s administration. 
“The whole student body was able to feel like they got something from the adminis­tration under Grant,” Becker said. 
Bridget Bredemann com­mended Weber on “an above­and-beyond job,” and McCormick described Brellenthin as “a model of the servant leader.” 
The new senators will soon be settled into the various committees and liaison posi­tions to other groups around campus. 
“As senators, you are the number one source for stu­dent government and organi­zations on campus to keep everyone informed,” Soler said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


World & Nation 
Thursday, April 8, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Gitmo detainee set for trial in 2011 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico — A military judge at Guantanamo Bay on Wednesday said lawyers in the case of a Sudanese detainee don’t expect to be ready for trial until early 2011, according to a military commissions spokesman. 
Joseph DellaVedova, spokesman for the Pentagon’s Office of Military Commissions, said in an e-mail from the U.S. base in Cuba that the judge said prosecutors and defense lawyers told her they could be ready by January or February 2011 in the war crimes case of Noor Uthman Muhammed. 
He said the judge, Navy Capt. Moira Modzelewski, expects the discovery phase of the case to take up most of the court’s atten­tion for the remainder of 2010. 
Boston man sentenced by North Korea 
SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea sentenced a Boston man to eight years of hard labor and ordered him to pay a $700,000 fine for crossing into the com­munist country illegally earlier this year, state media reported. 
Aijalon Mahli Gomes, 30, was the fourth American detained by North Korea for illegal entry in less than a year. 
Gomes, who had been teaching English in South Korea before his arrest, acknowledged his wrongdoing at Pyongyang’s Central Court on Tuesday, North Korea’s official Korean Central News Agency said in a brief dispatch Wednesday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Man arrested for alleged Pelosi threats 
SAN FRANCISCO — A California man angry about health care reform allegedly made threat­ening and harassing phone calls to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, including at least one call in which he got through and spoke to her direct­ly, law enforcement officials said. 
Gregory Lee Giusti, 48, was arrested Wednesday at his San Francisco home, said Joseph Schadler, spokesman for the FBI’s San Francisco office. Schadler would not disclose the charges against Giusti, saying they were under seal until his first appearance before a federal magistrate, scheduled for Thursday. 
The arrest came a day after a Washington state man was arrested for allegedly leaving threatening voicemails for U.S. Sen. Patty Murray, and as other Democratic lawmakers have faced vicious verbal attacks over their sup­port of the historic health care overhaul. 
Beached whale found on N.Y. shore 
EAST HAMPTON, N.Y. — A young hump­back whale that became stranded on a New York beach is wallowing near death on the shoreline after experts decided the mammal was too sick to save. 
The 25-foot-long whale was discovered Tuesday morning on the eastern Long Island shore of East Hampton, an exclu­sive beach used mostly by residents of the tony village. In the past two days, thou­sands of visitors have trekked there to see the beached whale lying in the shallow water as a heavy surf pounded the white sand. 
Experts say the whale was already dying when it came to shore and cannot be rehabilitated. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Inability to compromise stops census 
INDIANAPOLIS — U.S. Chief Justice John Roberts said Wednesday that the lack of consen­sus in many of the Supreme Court’s decisions reflects its fundamental inability to strike com­promises on laws, as Congress can when writing them. 
Roberts’ remarks came during a talk at the Indiana University School of Law in Indianapolis. Responding to a question about remarks Roberts made during his 2005 confirmation hearings about wanting to build consensus on the court, Roberts said justices differing in their interpreta­tions of law cannot act like lawmakers and strike compromises halfway. 
Lapses found at mine before blast 
Violations in West Virginia coal mine listed months before fatal explosion 
Associated Press 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. — Federal inspectors found a string of safety violations at a sprawling West Virginia coal mine in the months and days leading up to an explosion that killed 25 this week, including two cita­tions the day of the explo­sion. Miners were so con­cerned about the conditions that several told their con­gressman they were afraid to go back into the mine. 
Records reviewed by The Associated Press paint a troubling picture of proce­dures at Massey Energy Co.’s Upper Big Branch mine, the site of Monday’s explosion in the heart of West Virginia coal country. Safety advocates said the mine’s track record, partic­ularly a pair of January vio­lations that produced two of the heftiest fines in the mine’s history, should have provoked stronger action by the mine operators and regulators. 
In the January inspection, regulators found that dirty air was being directed into an escapeway where fresh air should be. They also found that an emergency air system was flowing in the wrong direction, which could leave workers with­out fresh air in their pri-over inadequate maps of professor of environmental been saved,” Oppegard mary escape route. escape routes and an and occupational health at said. 
Terry Moore, the mine improper splice of electrical George Washington Democratic U.S. Rep. foreman, told officials that cable on a piece of equip-University. Nick Rahall, whose district he was aware of one of the ment. “It’s definitely a big, big, includes the mine about 30 problems and that it had Trouble had been build-big, big signal — a red flag miles south of Charleston, been occurring for about ing at Upper Big Branch for — about major problems in told the AP on Wednesday three weeks. a long time. Violations in the mine,” Monforton said. that he’d been hearing for 
“Mr. Moore engaged in 2009 were roughly double The most serious viola-at least two months from aggravated conduct consti-the amount from any previ-tions could have warranted Upper Big Branch workers tuting more than ordinary ous year, and the January a criminal investigation, concerned about methane negligence in that he was citation involving Moore said Tony Oppegard, a levels at the mine. aware of the condition,” the was one of at least 50 Clinton appointee who Methane, a colorless, odor-Mine Safety and Health “unwarrantable failure” served as the adviser to the less gas common in under-Administration wrote in fin-violations assessed there in assistant secretary of ground mines, is suspected ing the company a com-the past year, the most seri-MSHA for 2½ years. as the cause of the blast. bined $130,000. ous type of violation that Oppegard said regulators “I have talked to individu-
While records indicate MSHA can assess. should have determined als who have been in coal those problems were fixed The January problems that the mine has a “pat-mines or have loved ones the same day, the mine’s could have triggered an tern of violations,” a rarely who have been working in operator, Massey subi-explosion if they weren’t used distinction that can coal mines who will not be sidiary Performance Coal corrected, said Celeste allow officials to shut down identified by name but will Co., continued to rack up Monforton, who spent six operations. say that something is fishy citations until the day of the years as a special assistant “Had it been on a pattern here,” Rahall said. “That blast. MSHA inspectors to MSHA’s assistant director of violations, maybe 25 there are corners being ticketed the mine Monday and is now an assistant lives or more would have cut.” 

BRAZIL 
Continuing rains cause flooding in Brazil 
massive mound of mud and debris. count on how many people had been
Associated Press 
Wood planks — remnants of the rescued. 
RIO DE JANEIRO — Rodrigo de shacks engulfed by the landslide — The death toll could easily rise. An Almeira had dug for 15 hours through poked through the mud as 30 rescue official with Rio’s fire department said mud and debris, and he looked like it. workers gingerly dug at it with picks at least 60 people were missing Auburn mud covered his head, his and shovels, still looking for sur-Wednesday afternoon. And although ripped shirt, his torn jeans and his vivors. the rain that poured down without rubber sandals. “We found a guy alive this morning, interruption from Monday afternoon 
When asked Wednesday if he had so we had hope,” said Almeira, 28. through Wednesday morning had been able to save anyone from the “He didn’t make it, we were told he finally begun to let up, it was raining massive landslide in the slum where died on his way to the hospital.” again Wednesday night and more rain he lives, he silently shook his head. Of Because of the continuing rains, was expected through the weekend. the 138 people confirmed dead from steep hillsides and loose earth, offi-Nearly all the deaths occurred in Rio’s heaviest rains on record, at least cials said there had been few success-landslides that engulfed the slums, yet 18 died in his shantytown, Pleasure ful rescues. One man, Carlos Eduardo another reminder that life in one of Hill. Silva dos Santos, 24, was pulled alive the world’s most famous playgrounds 
“Right there at least 15 people I from under a concrete wall in west-is much different for the poor than it know died,” Almeira said, staring at a ern Rio. Firefighters said they had no is for the rich. 

page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 8, 2010 
LEED 
continued from page 1 
tions and towards humanity as a whole,’” Lies said, referencing a quote from Pope Benedict XVI’s encyclical “Caritas in Veritate.” 
The Pope’s words and Geddes Hall are reminders that every choice we make has an impact on others, Lies said. 
ICL Business Manager Brian Shappell said Geddes Hall is “a visible sign” of the connection between the resources at Notre Dame and the ICL’s mission to research, education and out­reach. 
“This is a teaching moment for understanding that sustain­ability is important in everyone’s lives and in the life of the church as well,” Shappell said. 
In achieving Gold certification, 
Bishop 
continued from page 1 
doctrine, it is necessary to see the whole, not just one part,” Marx said. “All parts of our doctrine are linked and they influence each other.” 
Marx said the problem with social doctrine in today’s world involves conflicts with the deliverance of the message and the means in which it is communicated. 
“We want to share an ideal with everyone and have found the way to speak in nomina­tive sentences,” he said. “But the sentences must be compat­ible for all men of goodwill.” 
Marx applied the Church’s social doctrine to the current economic crisis. He said he believes there is a distinct relationship between virtues and institutions and the two cannot be separated. 
“We need to work within the system but the system must have the right organizations so that the virtues are under­lined,” he said. “The financial crisis shows very clearly that there was a failure in both virtue and institution.” 
Marx said he believes social doctrine can be used to help alleviate the crisis but it “is the facility has drawn visitors who are interested in seeing the University’s environmentally friendly efforts, CSC Director of Communication Paul Horn said. 

Bill.’ And three  stops.”  
of them say, ‘There is no  “The believers  The differ­ence, D’Souza  
Bill.’  position, no less than  said, is in how  
“Is it more likely that the 95 percent are  the atheist, is an attempt to grapple  believers and n onbe lie ve r s choose to  
right and the  with the facts to make  apply their  
other three percent just don’t know the guy?”  sense of the data. Faith is not a substitute for reason.  faith. “The atheist who says there isn’t, just like  
But Hitchens said the posi­tion of faith  Faith only comes in when reason stops.”  the believer who says there is, is making a  
“has to be dis- leap of faith,”  
carded first.”  Dinesh D’Souza  he said.  
“The only r e s p e c t a b l e  Christian apologetic  But Hitchens said he is more  
i n t e l l e c t u a l  c o m f o r t a b l e  

Geddes Hall boasts a variety of sustainable design and con­struction features, including low-flow plumbing and recycled construction materials. A signif­icant portion of the building materials were manufactured within the regional economy to reduce the impact of trans­portation and support the local community, a University press release said. 
“One of the core principles that inspires our work is the understanding of solidarity, that we are all called to be responsi­ble for all people in the world,” Horn said. “By making more sustainable choices here at Notre Dame we are enabling other people to have better and more equitable use of 
not possible to build a society based on this current image of man.” 
Pope Benedict XVI recently spoke about the new relation­ship between the market, state and society and the new impli­cations this relationship has after the financial crisis. Marx thinks the crisis has provided the opportunity to pursue a new way of thinking in light of social teachings. 
“We must now see that the whole is more than the sum of individuals, but good cannot be achieved without the state,” he said. “What is nec­essary is to ask the question of what it means to be living a good life in a good state.” 
Marx believes in the power and application of the social teachings, but he said they cannot have global responsi­bility without political and institutional arrangements that would guarantee that guideline will be followed. 
“We cannot just apply force to people because it’s not enough,” he said. “We must have a framework of the mar­ket and this is very dependent on civilization.” 
Marx said there were many lessons learned in the after­math of the financial crisis, but the most important lesson is that the global community 
might think. “The believers position, no 
Debate 

less than the atheist, is an continued from page 1 attempt to grapple with the 
facts to make sense of the people in the village say we data,” he said. “Faith is not a know this guy named Bill. Five substitute for reason. Faith of them say, ‘We’ve never met only comes in when reason resources.” 
The architects behind the project did not achieve this cer­tification without overcoming certain challenges. 
“Because this was our first building planned, designed and constructed seeking LEED, we had to learn how to interact with the USGBC reviewers,” Marsh said. “It has been helpful that most of the professional staff within the Office of the University Architect have learned the LEED New Construction criteria and passed an examination to become LEED Accredited Professionals.” 
Other buildings awaiting certi­fication reviews include Ryan Hall, Stinson-Remick Hall, the Purcell Pavilion and Innovation Park at Notre Dame, according to a University press release. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
must rethink capitalism and “organize the market, state and society on a global level; it is very important for the Church to find a way to be in the civil societies in countries across the world.” 
Marx said he thinks the mis­sion of the Church in the 21st century should be to overcome separations and play a more significant role in developing a global consciousness. 
“We must find new ways of integrating our social action with other dialogues to find a common language,” he said. 
Marx said the Church’s social doctrine would not be embraced by everyone but that solidarity within the glob­al community is attainable. 
“Faith is not a means of exclusion, but a means of inte­gration,” he said. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
ROTC 
continued from page 1 
The competition is the culmi­nation of a semester-long scored competition between the platoons, Cadet Lieutenant Colonel and senior Tom Capretta said. 
“The main reason we run the Iron Irish Race is to build pla­toon cohesion through competi­tion. Cohesion is important to the success of any unit in the military,” Capretta said. “As cadets, we try to improve our­selves and each other, and building a cohesive team is an important part of accomplish­ing that goal,” Capretta said. “The competition also affords leadership opportuni­ties to our upperclassmen, which is important preparation for us as we look to become commissioned officers in the 
U.S. Army.” 
The Iron Irish competition included five events. The pla­toons competed in a timed swim, rope climb, ruck run, simulated rifle competition and a “mystery event,” which was a paintball tournament on White Fields between the platoons that was postponed due to a thunderstorm warning. 
“The weather was terrible, but it was a lot of fun,” Vitter said. “The storms added anoth­er dimension to the competi­tion, making it more difficult, but people stepped up and worked.” 
He said event planners hope to have the paintball tourna­ment in future years. 
“At the end of the day, all of the tasks are meant to be com­pleted by everyone,” Vitter said. “There’s more to get out of the competition than who has the fastest time.” 
Vitter said before the compe­tition he was hopeful his pla­toon would perform well as a unit. 
“I hope we show the cama­raderie and group mentality that we’ve developed over this semester,” Vitter said. 
Cadet Corporal and sopho­more Trevor Waliszewski, also a member of platoon B1, was also hopeful for a win. 
“A win would increase the solidarity of our platoon and establish as the clear favorites for all battalion competitions next year,” Waliszewski said. 
Waliszewski said the competi­tion helped his platoon think together. 
“The Iron Irish is an event designed to motivate us to work harder during Physical Training sessions throughout the year,” he said. “As we will be completing all of our chal­lenges as a platoon, the event encourages teamwork and makes us look out for one another.” 
Waliszewski said the event helps prepare for real-world combat experience. 
“The Army teaches us a Warrior Ethos including the statement, ‘I will never leave a fallen comrade,’ and Iron Irish allows us to put that into effect as we complete all the chal­lenges as a team. It’s a compet­itive environment where we can learn lessons that will make us better officers in a real-world combat environ­ment,” he said. 
Vitter said he attributes his platoon’s win to the group men­tality. 
“Our platoon has come a long way since last semester in terms of teamwork and cohe­sion,” Vitter said. “That was the biggest part of today. We may not be the biggest or strongest platoon out there but we worked together and that’s what the competition was about.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

position is one of doubt,” he said. “[Atheism] is a refusal of faith and a refusal to use it as a method of reasoning. What we don’t know, we don’t claim to know.” 
But D’Souza said the atheists and believers actually have more in common than one not making assumptions. 
“If there is any such judge [in the afterlife,] I will be able to say at least I never faked belief,” Hitchens said. “At least I wasn’t a hypocrite.” 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
The Observer 
Business

Thursday, April 8, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Talks of airline merger become serious 
MINNEAPOLIS — United Airlines and US Airways are in talks about combining into what would be the nation’s second-biggest airline, a person with knowledge of the sit­uation told The Associated Press on Wednesday. 
The person, who insisted on anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the talks, said the talks appeared to be getting more serious. 
This person said a deal would be modeled on the Delta-Northwest combination, which was a stock swap without a cash compo­nent. 
Shares of both companies jumped in after-hours trading after the news was reported by The New York Times and the Wall Street Journal. US Airways was up $1.35, or 20 percent, to $8.17, and Chicago-based United parent UAL Corp. rose $1.53, or 8 percent, to $20.48. 
Calif. cracks down on middlemen 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. — California lawmakers took a step Wednesday toward cracking down on the middlemen that help private investment firms land lucrative contracts with the state’s giant pen­sion funds. 
The use of so-called “placement agents” has erupted into a scandal in California and New York, where allegations of cronyism and exorbi­tant fees have prompted investigations. 
On Wednesday, the state Assembly’s Public Employees, Retirement and Social Security Committee voted 4-1, with one member abstain­ing, to improve oversight of the way California public pension funds invest money. 
The California Public Employees Retirement System is the nation’s largest pension fund, with about $210 billion in assets under management. 
The California bill would require placement agents to register as lobbyists and file quarterly reports stating any gifts or fees they received. 
It also would prohibit the practice of allowing outside investment managers to pay those agents contingency fees for winning business with the funds. Placement agents typically earn 1 percent of the total investment they win for their clients, which can mean millions of dollars for landing a deal. 
Conservatives to lobby for drilling 
Agreement made to campaign for expansion of oil company’s offshore operations 
Associated Press 
SANTA BARBARA, Calif. 
— Conservation groups on Wednesday unveiled a new version of an unusual agree­ment in which they will lobby for an oil company’s expansion of drilling off the coast of California in exchange for definite end dates to its local petroleum operations. 
The revision attempts to address criticisms of the original 2008 agreement by making its terms public, granting the state the right to enforce it and strengthen­ing provisions to ensure an end to operations offshore from scenic Santa Barbara County. 
A week after President Barack Obama moved to open many federal waters to drilling — except along the West Coast — local envi­ronmental groups accompa­nied by area political lead­ers unveiled the revised plan at Shoreline Park on a bluff overlooking the blue Pacific with oil rigs in the distance. 
“The bottom line is this plan puts in place a timetable to end existing oil drilling off our coast and prevent any future drilling,” said Rep. Lois Capps. “It’s transparent. It’s account­able. It’s smart.” Currently, 27 platforms producing. change its mind and do 
The plan, which needs operate off the Central and Under the deal, PXP what it wants to do,” she government approval, Southern California coasts. would also have to give up said. would allow Plains They produced 13.3 million any profits resulting from a Assemblyman Pedro Exploration & Production of barrels of oil in 2009, a very violation of the end dates. Nava, D-Santa Barbara, Houston to slant drill up to small amount of the overall Addressing another con-who is running for state 30 new shafts from an exist-national production. cern, the backers said there attorney general, said the ing platform in federal Environmental Defense are no title or other issues agreement does not give the waters into a formation in Center attorney Linda Krop, to prevent PXP from turning state any additional authori­state waters. who represents the environ-over 3,900 acres on shore to ty. 
The company, known as mental groups, said the the Trust for Public Land. “Bottom line for me, in PXP, would shut down exist-revised agreement would Despite such changes, 2008 we were told that the ing oil production from allow the California attorney some conservationists con-deal was the deal of the cen­three offshore platforms in general to enforce its terms tinued to doubt the propos-tury and it wasn’t,” he said. nine years and a fourth by making the state a third-al. “Why am I going to believe platform in 14 years. It party beneficiary. State Coastal this one is any better than would also remove two Backers also pointed to Commissioner Sara Wan, the last one?” onshore support and pro-provisions requiring PXP to whose board may eventual-Richard Charter, energy cessing facilities and hun-surrender its federal oil ly have to weigh in on the consultant to Defenders of dreds of acres of onshore oil leases to eliminate the pos-plan, had yet to read the Wildlife, said that even wells. sibility that the four plat-new agreement but wasn’t though it is a local proposal, 
The environmentalist par-forms could continue to sure it could bind the state it threatens to open up the ties to the deal essentially operate after the end dates, into defending the deal. entire state coastline and is do not view the plan as new and to prevent PXP from “There’s no way you can opposed by “most of the drilling because it would use being forced by the federal tell the government 15 mainstream conservation the existing Platform Irene. government to continue years from now that it can’t community.” 

Videos display animal welfare violations 
Associated Press Pacelle said industry standards Animal rights groups have used 
allow for 67 square inches per bird undercover video before to highlight 
DES MOINES, Iowa — The Humane with hundreds of thousands of birds practices at egg facilities, including Society of the United States released per building. He said hens kept in the last year when Chicago-based Mercy videos Wednesday that they say show cages — known as battery cages — for Animals released video showing animal-welfare violations at four egg are trampled by other hens, suffer workers at West Des Moines-based farms in Iowa, the nation’s top egg-broken bones and can’t reach food Hy-Line North America tossing male producing state. and water. chicks into a grinder. Industry groups 
The videos, made secretly as part of He also claimed hens are roughly say it’s common practice because the animal rights group’s ongoing handled and suffer from exposure to male chicks can’t lay eggs or be raised push to get egg-laying hens out of ammonia from the manure in pits quickly enough to be raised profitably cramped cages, show chickens caught below the cages. for meat. between wires and others being “You cannot have good animal wel-The latest videos were shot in pulled dead from cages that sit above fare by jamming six to eight animals February by an undercover employee piles of manure. in a small cage that doesn’t allow at Rose Acre Farm facilities in 
“I think by any reasonable standard them to turn around, extend their Winterset and a Rembrandt this is wholly unacceptable and insuf-wings or engage in any natural Enterprises Inc. farm in Thompson. ficient to account for the physical and behavior,” Pacelle said. “And these K.Y. Hendrix, vice president for pro-behavioral needs of any animal,” said facilities are so large and there are so duction for Rose Acres Farms, said his Wayne Pacelle, the Humane Society’s many birds that when problems arise operation doesn’t “condone anything president and chief executive officer. they’re almost impossible to address.” anyone saw in the video.” 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 8 Thursday, April 8, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 

Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Douglas Farmer Alicia Smith Molly Sammon Graphics Tim Singler Andrea Archer Scene Viewpoint Alex Kilpatrick Lianna Brauweiler 
Sex on the brain: The biology of sexual orientation 
Editors note: This is the second install­ment in a series of columns by Notre Dame faculty members exploring current scholarly research in sexuality concen­trating on sexual orientation and related issues. 
What causes sex­ual orientation? Michelle Wirth What causes us to be attracted to and Professor of fall in love with the Psychology people that we do? 
Almost all our behaviors and traits are a product of both nature and nurture. The “Nature/Nurture Debate” actually does not make much sense, because genes and environment have a constant interplay throughout the lifespan. However, whether through genes or learning, there is no doubt that sexual orientation is manifested some­how in our brains. This is because the brain is responsible for all our thoughts, behaviors, personality characteristics — everything that we are. The brain is not a fixed entity — learning changes your brain every day, whether very fleeting changes, like a phone number you forget immediately, or long-lasting behavior pat­terns, like being shy or outgoing — and, perhaps, like sexual orientation. 
What is it that changes our brains to be straight or gay? There are probably many influences, but one may be the level of hormones that your brain was exposed to while developing in utero. One of the clues that androgens (testosterone­like hormones) influence sexual orienta­tion comes from a disorder called Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia (CAH). In this disorder, the adrenal glands’ hor­mone production goes haywire so that they make too much androgen. This doesn’t seem to impact developing male fetuses, since the androgen levels are not much different than what their bodies would normally make. But female fetuses with CAH find themselves swimming in much higher levels of androgens than they otherwise would. The disorder can be easily corrected with drugs once it’s discovered at birth, and androgen levels for CAH girls are normal from there on out. However, was there an effect of the extra androgens on the brains of these girls as they were developing in utero? 
It seems that there is. When CAH girls grow up, 33 percent of them describe themselves as homosexual or bisexual, compared to six to 10 percent of the non-CAH population. So, androgens must play a role in sexual orientation, but they can’t explain it completely. After all, 67 percent of CAH women identified as heterosexual. And most homosexual and bisexual women do not have CAH. So androgens in the developing brain play a role in sex­ual orientation (at least in women), but they’re not the whole story. 
Our next clue comes from differences between straight and gay people in tiny regions of the brain involved in sex and reproduction, found in post-mortem brains by Simon LeVay and colleagues. A region of the hypothalamus called INAH3 turned out to differ in size between straight men and women — men’s INAH3 is about twice as large as women’s. Gay men, however, had a smaller, straight­female-sized INAH3. Could INAH3 be the “sexual orientation area” of the brain? 
It’s possible. The hypothalamus is cer­tainly an important area for sexual behavior, although what exactly INAH3 does is unknown. But another considera­tion is the chicken-and-egg problem: What causes what? One possibility is that the size of INAH3 causes sexual orienta­tion: a larger INAH3 means you will be attracted to women, and smaller INAH3 means you will be attracted to men. But another possibility is that being attracted to women for years and years causes the size of INAH3 to increase. Remember that your brain is changing and respond­ing all the time in response to your expe­riences. And the brains being studied were adult brains, after the individuals had died. 
We can find out more by looking at sheep, a species which shares with us some reproductive traits. Interestingly, eight percent of rams (male sheep) have a sexual preference for other rams, rather than ewes (female sheep). It turns out that sheep also have an INAH3, and it follows exactly the same pattern as in humans: rams that prefer ewes have an INAH3 twice as big as the INAH3 of ewes, but rams that prefer rams have the smaller, ewe-sized INAH3. We still have the chicken-and-egg problem: Does being attracted to ewes or rams change the size of INAH3? Or does the INAH3 size control the attractions of the sheep? We don’t know. But we do know that human cul­tural experience cannot explain the INAH3 results. Whatever the connection between this brain region and sexual ori­entation, it is something we share with other species. 
These are just two studies among an ongoing body of research seeking to find out more about the biology of sexual ori­entation in humans. So far scientists think that, like most human behavior, sexual attraction is the result of a com­plex orchestration between genes, early hormone exposures and other environ­mental factors. There is probably no one thing that determines sexual orientation. But each clue gives us a little more infor­mation about human sexuality and how we each come to be who we are. 
Michelle Wirth is a professor of psychology. She can be contacted at mwirth@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Swans sing before they die —t'were no bad thing did certainpersons die before they sing.” 
Samuel Taylor Coleridge English poet 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The men of the future will yet fight their way to many a libertythat we do not even miss.” 
Max Stirner German philosopher 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Thursday, April 8, 2010 page 9 
A suit, a suitcase and a typewriter 
When my father left his childhood bedroom for the Louisiana State University Agricultural and Mechanical College in the late summer of 1967, he possessed three things: a tailored suit, a luggage set and a typewriter. He had William acquired all three Stewart at separate times 
Guest
immediately sur-

Columnist
rounding, but, more significantly, on account of his graduation from high school. So, when my time came to leave the lockers of senior hall behind, my father was insistent that I take careful time in securing my own versions of the three commencement items. My mother tried to explain why they were so important to him, but I just shrugged and rode shotgun on the way to Men’s Warehouse. There were way too many graduation parties and salutatory addresses demanding my concentra­tion. 
Two years later, I find myself check­ing an over-sized rolling duffel at the airline counter, buttoning up the three-button pinstripe armor before braving formal events and spending a large majority of time with my fingers on the keys of my computer. Look in my room and you will see that these have a spe­cial place among my other belongings: right there with my books and the pic­ture of my family and my iPod and my speakers and my sneakers and my futon and my postcard collection and my camera and my snow boots and my posters and those energy-efficient bulbs I have yet to install and that strand of Christmas lights I grabbed off of a tree on the side of the road last winter break. 
All right, so you wouldn’t necessarily be inclined to notice them any more than anything else in my hovel of strange junk. And it would be safe to assume that, on most days, the suit or the suitcase or the computer doesn’t strike me either. Truth be told, individu­ally, they are no more than societal necessities, common objects to be found in any one of my neighbors’ rooms. However, every once in a while, that lit­tle picturesque legend of my father, dressed up, suitcase in one hand, portable typewriter in the other, floats into my mind and I try to understand what those things meant to him. 
For centuries, higher education has represented a furthering and intensifi­cation of individual, intellectual instruc­tion. To a certain extent, this remains and will always remain its function: assimilation of information, profession of the knowledge by some and the demonstration by others of comprehen­sion of such knowledge. 
Yet, the longer I am here at this University, the more I feel that an equally important (though perhaps implicit or even overlooked) role of col­lege is the social formation of the indi­vidual. For most, the university acts as a catalyst for our transition from ado­lescence into adulthood, a catalyst for independence and autonomy. We (or at least some of us) are pushed from the nest of our parents and made nomads for a time, allowed to roam. We are asked to interact with adults more as peers than as authorities. We are encouraged to develop our own thoughts and worldview. Curse ResLife or the latest assignment for a paper from Philosophy, but college is our soci­ety’s way of making us responsible for our own thoughts and actions. College forces us to recognize our own person: individual, free and capable. 
My father steps onto the Louisiana State University campus. He wears a suit, a sign of his age and of his newly earned status as a man, no longer a boy. He carries a suitcase, symbolic of his having no tethers to home, fettered to nothing and no one, able to settle in any land he may choose. And he punch­es out letters on a little, tan Brother typewriter, the keys that can unlock his means to expression and materialize his thoughts or pin down the world he sees onto fields of 20-pound white. 
Perhaps this image allows me to bet­ter appreciate the profundity of those three gifts with which I left home. Perhaps distinguishing their signifi­cance among my room of superfluities allows me to distinguish my necessary significance among this world of banali­ties. 
William Stewart is a sophomore majoring in the Program of Liberal Studies. He can be contacted at William.J.Stewart.90@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

One book, one Michiana — one Notre Dame 
I am writing to share exciting informa­tion in response to the March 31 Letter to the Editor titled “One book, one Michiana” (Caitlin Wilson, Rachel Hamilton). I am pleased to announce that Hesburgh Libraries has joined the One Book, One Michiana project. Hesburgh Libraries will host a presentation by Notre Dame Law professor Thomas Shaffer scheduled at Geddes Hall from 4-5:30 on April 14. 
The presentation is titled “Atticus Finch: Not Only Gregory Peck But Also Southern Gentleman and County-Seat Lawyer Whose Daughter Is a Whiz-Bang.” 
We are in the process of adding our campus event to the St. Joe Public Library's website. In the mean time, we are asking you to help us spread the word. 
Thanks for helping us make our first “One Book, one Michiana” project a suc­cess. 
Felicia A. Smith 
faculty April 5 

Butler gets remembered, but legends never die 
Gordon Hayward was channeling Bobby Plump, the last-second hero of the 1951 Indiana Men’s Basketball Championship and the inspiration for the film Hoosiers, Monday night when he shot that jumper over Duke’s Brian Zoubek. That last-sec­ond shot should have arched over the 7’1” center, bounced once on the rim and rolled in. It should have been the greatest NCAA Men’s Championship game in our generation. Instead, the ball went long and bricked off the far side of the rim. It was rebounded by Zoubek, handing a perennial dynasty and its insufferable fans yet another championship (yes, I recog­nize the irony in me, a Notre Dame stu­dent, calling other college fans insuffer­able, but I am writing as a Butler fan). 
Sports these days don’t seem as magical as they used to be. I grew up on a steady diet of classic inspirational movies like Rudy (obvious), Remember the Titans, Miracle, Seabiscuit and Space Jam. They taught me that if you are plucky enough and the situation is just perfect, even I could pull off the upset of a lifetime. What are they going to make movies about in 10 or 15 years when we need to teach our children that the world is a just place where the good guys coached by a lovable 
— if slightly damaged — mentor always win? 
Are they going to watch a movie about a plucky Saints team that finished with the NFL’s second-best record and top passer finally winning a Super Bowl or how a grossly overpaid Yankees organization purchased a World Series team to beat on a small market team that made it to the World Series? Maybe they can watch the story of two non-BCS teams that went undefeated during the year only to be paired together in a bowl game matched only by class on St.Patrick’s Day in its futility. 
My point is that the magic in sports is dying. When was the last time a true underdog story translated into a champi­onship? The answer should have been last Monday. You could not script the sequel to Hoosiers any better than Butler’s journey through the tournament this year. If those mystical forces that create truly great sports stories couldn’t allow Butler to fin­ish the greatest story in men’s basketball of the past 25 years, then what hope do my Cubbies have this season? 
Peter Elliott 
sophomore Siegfried Hall April 6 
Being ‘anti-union’ perfectly legal 
I want to respond to one of the assumptions that appears to underly Sarah Furman’s March 31 column about the HEI hotel compa­ny (“HEI: Still an issue”). She criti­cizes HEI for being “anti-union.” She seems to assume that being anti-union is either illegal or immoral. It is neither. 
An employer, at least under cur­rent law, has every right to encour­age its employees not to form or join a union. An employer is well within its rights, both legally and morally, to think that a union will not be in the best interests of the company or of its employees. While there are those who wish to deny employers the right and ability to communicate with their employees about unions organizing, employ­ers in the U.S. have long been at liberty to speak with their employ­ees about these matters. 
If an employer goes beyond exer­cising his constitutionally protected right of free speech, and instead engages in actions that violate fed­eral labor laws, then of course he should be held accountable for those violations. Whether HEI vio­lated such laws is a matter to be decided by the NLRB — though I would caution anyone from assum­ing guilt merely based on allega­tions by NLRB staff. 
My point is that encouraging employees not to join a union is not synonymous with denying them the right to do so. If, after hearing both sides of the argument, employees freely choose to unionize, then that is their right. However, we should not assume that employers who are “anti-union,” in the sense that they actively communicate with their employees and encourage them to not join a union, are acting either illegally or immorally. 
Mark Goodman 
alumnus class of 1983 April 6 
Fall of a power 
In my four years at this wonder­ful university, I have witnessed many great things. Unfortunately I have also seen the complete fall of a once-powerful baseball program. While I will admit that my coming to the university coincided with the loss of one of the top five coaches in the nation (Paul Mainieri), there is no reason our program should have gone from a Big East dynasty that was a perennial player in the NCAA Tournament to a Big East afterthought that has not made the tournament in four years. 
While I will admit that baseball at Notre Dame doesn’t receive the same amount of attention as bas­ketball or football, there is no rea­son a team which made the College World Series in the past decade should currently stand at 9-17. 
From everything I have heard about him, Manager David Schrage seems to be a great man. However, I do not think our uni­versity should accept mediocrity in a sport that we had dominated for well over a decade. If Mr. Swarbrick does decide to make a coaching change at the end of the year, I think he should look no fur­ther than Brian O’Connor, a for­mer Notre Dame assistant and manager of the No. 4 Virginia Cavaliers. 
Jordan Carey 
senior off campus April 7 
The Observer 
Scene

page 10 Thursday, April 8, 2010 
By DECLAN SULLIVAN 
Scene Writer 

In less than a week’s time — April 13 to be precise — MGMT’s follow-up to their 2007 hit album “Oracular Spectacular ”— suitably named “Congratulations” — will officially be released and available to download legally. That’s not to say that it’s not available now — a well-publicized leak of the album in mid -March prompted the band to release the album in a stream -only format on March 20. 
Although members of the group have described the album as a “no-singles album, ” one song, “Flash Delirium, ” has been released, although it has been described as more a taster for the album than an actual single. Basically, if you like “Flash Delirium, ” you ’ll like “Congratulations,” and vice versa. Either way, it’s easy to see that “Congratulations ” has little stylistically in common with “Oracular Spectacular.” 
Many track s in 
“Oracular Spectacular” drove its success and its eventual dominance of many college campuses/stoner circles: “Kids, ” “Weekend Warriors, ” “Time to Pretend,” “Electric Feel.” 

“Congratulations” has none of these; it is a straight-up album’s album, meaning that the band meant it to be taken in as a whole rather than as individual tracks. In listening to the album in its entirety, the first word that comes to mind is duality. “Congratulations” tracks have two different, distinct flavors: First, about half the songs have a bouncy, upbeat, almost surfer/beach vibe to them — albeit, one distorted with digital production work and what sounds like a harpsi­chord — and the rest sound inspired by dreams of floating through psyche­delic clouds in a world without time or purpose. While the two different sounds at times cause jarring moments in the changes between tracks, for the most part the format works, and MGMT somehow manages to take two songs that sound very lit­tle alike and tie them together in a way that makes some sense in the context of the album. Viewed in the “no-singles album” light, MGMT suc­ceeds and has come out with a good — but not great — sophomore effort. 
The only problem with this is that 
MGMT ‘Congratulations’ Record Label: Sony/Columbia Recommended Tracks: 
”Someone’s Missing,” “Flash Delirium,” and “Siberian Breaks” 

the vast majority of MGMT fans became fans by listening to their pop-infused songs from “Oracular Spectacular,” and these fans will be disappointed with this album. Again, to stress the point, there are no sin­gles on this album. “Flash Delirium” is not a real single, nor does it sounds like it. It has more in common with the progressive rock of the 70s or the OC soundtrack — beach music —than MGMT ’s previous work. This is a problem, because while there are people out there who will be fans of the eclectic mix of musical genres and feels, there are many more who will not be, and it is largely fans from the latter group that fueled 


MGMT’s success. 
“Congratulations” is a good album to just put on and zonk out to for about 45 minutes. While it does have some flaws, it still is a good album and worth a listen; however, if the listener goes into the album expecting a spiri­tual successor to “Oracular Spectacular,” he will be sorely disap­pointed. MGMT went out on a limb for their sophomore effort, and while many fans of their more pop tunes will probably not enjoy this, those who can listen to it with an open mind will find a worthwhile experience. 
Contact Declan Sullivan at dsulliv9@nd.edu 
By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 
Before he revolutionized the classic American 
Hilfiger brought to time-honored classics as well as his entrepre­neurial spirit that caught the eye of Mohan Murjani, the man who would come to launch Hilfiger’s first line of men’s 
look, cloth ­before he i n g . accom-And it pli shed h a s 
the seem-since ingly been impossi -t h a t ble task fresh 
of com -eye and peting undying with devo-Calvin tion to Klein and always R a l p h keeping Lauren thi ngs and new before he a n d dreamed break ­up his ing first jean through jacket or w i t h sewed the n e w first but-styl es ton onto a n d one of his looks staple that has 

shi rts, To mm y Hilfiger dreamed of being a football player. 
The football dream died when he never hit a growth spurt, but Hilfiger has since succeeded at being a business­man — one who has founded a global lifestyle brand, been named the best Men’s Designer by GQ and the Parsons School of Design among 
others 
and whose name has become synony­mous with authentic American fashion. 

Hilfiger grew up the second of nine chil­dren in Elmira, N.Y., and realized early on that he wanted to be a businessman. Only, he didn’t know what a businessman was. What he did know was that he had a particular passion, and a vision that he brought to his first endeavor in the fash­ion industry, his own chain 

of 
stores called People’s Place. Using his knowledge of New York and London fash­ion and capitalizing off of the fact that his customers sought but didn’t have access to new trends, he designed his own line of cloth­


ing best described as “preppy American classic, with a twist.” 
His success upstate brought him to the big show in New York, where he further learned the trade and strove endlessly to launch a line. It was the fresh eye 
enabled 
Hilfiger to bring classic American sports­wear to consumers around the 
world. 
What Hilfiger went on to create was a distinct brand with worldly appeal, that was competitively priced and, per­haps most importantly, made up of products that people wanted. Hilfiger was never one to design for himself, but instead a designer dedicated to the consumer, always keeping in mind what was both wearable and desir­
able. 
Admittedly, he let things slip in the late 90s as the company saw its sales cut in half due to oversupply. At that point he, with his team, went back to the drawing board and exercised the kind of business savvy that Murjani had first admired in him, 
revamping the U.S. branch of the company and model­ing it on the company’s successful European business model. 
The company experienced steady growth after that reclamation project and it was that growth that propelled fashion pow­erhouse Phillips-Van Heusen to recent­
ly 
acquire the Hilfiger brand. Despite the 
acquisition, Hilfiger remains the life-blood of the company, as his vision and industry know-how remain the keys to the company’s success. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene

Thursday, April 8, 2010 page 11 
“Precious,” DPAC @ 6:30 and 9:30 p.m. 
This Thursday, Friday and Saturday “Precious,” the Academy award nominated film, will be show­ing at DPAC. It centers on Claireece “Precious” Jones (played by new­comer Gabourey Sidibe), a 16-year old black girl growing up in Harlem. Abused by her mother and raped by her father, Precious’s life is an end­less string of hardship. Her only escape is through elaborate fan­tasies she creates for herself in times of difficulty. Yet her imagina­tion cannot save her from the reality of her life. Precious must learn to cope with her difficulties and break out of a cycle of abuse and poverty. A compelling heart-breaking story, “Precious” is a must-see. 
“It’s Complicated,” DeBartolo 101 @ 8 and 10:30 p.m. 
Starring an all-star cast including Meryl Streep, Alec Baldwin, Steve Martin and John Krasinski, “It’s Complicated” is a quirky romantic comedy no doubt aimed at an older crowd, yet enjoyable to a younger audience as well. The plot follows Jane, a self-sufficient divorcee with three grown children and a successful bakery. At her son’s graduation, Jane rekindles her romance with her ex-husband, Jake. Upon returning home, Jane begins seeing her architect, Adam, while continuing an affair with her ex-husband. Torn between the two men, Jane must sort out her life and redefine what it means to be the “other woman.” John Krasinski is delightful as Jane’s daughter’s fiancé. 
The Roots with Mike Posner, Stepan Center @ 7:30 p.m. 
The Roots are a hip-hop group 
out 
of Philadelphia known for their eclectic mix of live instru­ments and jazz influences. Formed in 1991 by rapper Black Thought, the group has been touring and making music ever since. Hailed as the best live show in their genre, The Roots are sure to put on a great performance. They are joined by Mike Posner, college stu­dent turned singer/songwriter who has become famous for his mix-tapes, combining innovative covers 

of 
popular songs with his own compositions. Posner has become known for energetic, sold out shows. Tickets for this event are $10. 


Hamlet – “Thomas,” DPAC @ 1 p.m. 
“Hamlet” is considered one of Shakespeare’s greatest works. It offers an unparalleled look into the human psyche, delving into madness and obsession in a way none have before or since. Because of its great­ness, “Hamlet” has inspired countless adaptations, including Ambroise Thomas’s operatic version. Starring Simon Keenlyside and Natalie Dessay, this adaptation elaborates on the madness of Ophelia, creating one of the greatest scenes of madness in all of opera. Filmed live at the Metropolitan Opera and showing in HD in the Browning Cinema, this per­formance of Thomas’s “Hamlet” is the best operatic experience one can get, short of being at the Metropolitan Opera in person. 
Contact Genna McCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu 
By TATIANA SPRAGINS 
Scene Writer 
The Italian Theatre Workshop will premiere April 15 and run through April 17. An annual pro­duction, the workshop is the pro­duction of a class that performs a play acted and organized entirely by students — all in Italian. This semester, the class, Italian Theatre Workshop: Amore, onore, tradi­mento (love, honor, betrayal) put together a production that exam­ines the theme of marriage and infidelity in two different stories: Goldoni’s “L’Osteria della posta” and Pirandello’s “Bellavita.” 
Italian is Notre Dame’s second most studied language, Rome is one of its most competitive study abroad programs and Bologna is one of the few locations that offer a year-long study abroad experience. This workshop, a unique class offered only by the Italian depart­ment, aims to get students involved in not only the opportunity to fur­ther enhance their Italian but also to use their acting skills, engaging the students with the literature and the language both by speaking it aloud and performing in accor­dance to the text. This theatre workshop offers the challenge of having to study a complex play and then also perform it – all in a for­eign tongue. However, it is also one of the few unique opportunities for the students to become completely exposed to Italian while still study­ing the language at Notre Dame. There is no option but to become completely involved with the work, as performing the text involves studying, reading, speaking and acting. 

short comedies. The first, “L’Osteria della Posta,” is about a woman who is about to meet the man she has been arranged to wed, yet when her husband-to-be sees her, he pretends to be someone else to find out what she’s actually like. What he finds out isn’t too pleasing, since she does not like the descrip­tion of the person he actually is (her future husband) and in fact, 
already has a lover. Confusions and laughter galore, it is a much lighter play than the second one, “Bellavita.” This play deals with the relationship between the lover and the husband 
recently died and their dispute over her son — whose father no one is sure of. 
Professor Lawrence Hooper, the class’s teacher and director explained that since the plays are in Italian, students have to focus on the text and study it more than normal. Consequently, this dedica­tion helps make the acting come naturally due to the intense involvement of the student with the text, which is an interesting approach to take on acting. Although previous acting experi­ence is not required, and in fact 
before, students must have taken at least one year of Italian. Most students in this year’s play have studied abroad in Italy, either for a semester in Rome or the entire year in Bologna. As part of their course requirements, the student actors keep journals and make analyses of the text, although class­es consist mostly of rehearsals. In fact, the workshop can also count for FTT credit. 
Although aimed at a narrower audience due to the language bar­rier, if anyone has even a slight interest in Italian or in theatre, it 
plot, packed with love triangles, disputes and scandal. 
Tickets are $3 for students and $5 for non-students, and can be purchased at the Center for the Study of Languages and Cultures in DeBartolo Hall. 
Contact Tatiana Spragins at tspragin@nd.edu 

ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, April 8, 2010 
MLB 

Giants sweep opening series against Astros 
Longoria’s three RBIs help Rays top Orioles; Rockies struggle offensively in final innings and fall to Brewers 
scooted home after Gervacio Garza allowed two runs over 
Associated Press 
overthrew third base on a eight innings and the Tampa 

HOUSTON — Edgar sacrifice by Eli Whiteside. Bay Rays beat the Baltimore Renteria tied a career high Rowand had an RBI single Orioles on Wednesday night. with five hits and the San later in the eighth. Longoria hit a two-out, two-Francisco Giants broke away Uribe hit an RBI double to run double in the fifth to give from the Houston Astros 10-4 highlight the ninth. the Rays a 3-2 lead and Wednesday to complete a sea-The Astros scored three added a solo homer in the son -opening three -game runs in the seventh that made eighth. sweep. it 4-all. Pinch -hitter Cory Garza (1-0) struck out nine, 
The Giants are 3-0 for the Sullivan hit a two-out, two-walked two and allowing four first time since 2003, when run triple that Rowand bob-hits. He improved to 19 -9 they began with a sweep at bled before dropping near the against AL East teams. San Diego and won seven hill in center field. That fin-Baltimore’s Jeremy Guthrie straight. Houston last started ished Cain, and the speedy (0-1) gave up three runs and 0-3 in 2007. Michael Bourn tied it when he eight hits in 6 1-3 innings. 
It was 4-all when Juan barely beat the throw on a The right -hander had six Uribe doubled in the eighth single off Affeldt. strikeouts and two walks. inning and scored the go -Rowand tripled in the sev-One day after a season ­ahead run when Sammy enth inning when both Bourn opening sellout of 36,973, the Gervacio (0-1) threw away a and Hunter Pence had trouble announced crowd Wednesday bunt. The Giants added scooping up the ball. Renteria night was 15,220. another run in the inning, drove him in with a single The Rays opened the season then scored four times in the that made it 4-1 and chased with two wins for the first after a rough start by Davis. With Milwaukee trailing 4-3 ninth. Myers. time since 2002, the only The Brewers used a total of going into the sixth, Edmonds 
Aaron Rowand had four of Bowker’s two -run homer other time they did it. seven pitchers Wednesday, singled, went to third on a the Giants’ 19 hits. John that landed in the bullpen in Rafael Soriano got his first including LaTroy Hawkins’ single by Casey McGehee, Bowker had a two-run homer right-center field in the sec-save with the Rays despite perfect eighth inning and then scored on a sacrifice fly and Travis Ishikawa added ond. It was his first career hit allowing a run-scoring double Trevor Hoffman’s 593rd by George Kottaras to tie it. his first career pinch -hit against Myers after striking by Garrett Atkins in the ninth. career save. That was the end of the day home run. out in his previous three at-Miguel Tejada had an RBI “The Rockies are an for Rockies starter Aaron 
Jeremy Affeldt (1-0) got the bats against him. single during a two-run first. extremely good team, ” Cook (0-1), who was relieved win in relief of Matt Cain, The Giants pushed the lead Tampa Bay made it 2-1 in Brewers manager Ken Macha by Randy Flores. who allowed six hits and to 3-0 in the third when the fourth on a run-scoring said. “They just beat the “They made me pay for three earned runs in 6 2-3 Renteria scored as Mark single by B.J. Upton. The death out of us last year.” some mistakes I made and innings. DeRosa grounded into a dou-Rays later in the inning Colorado scored three runs unfortunately I wasn’t able to 
Astros starter Brett Myers ble play. loaded the bases with two as Davis was remarkably wild keep the team in the game,” gave up a career-high 12 hits Pedro Feliz doubled twice outs, but the threat ended in the first inning, but Cook said. “They gave me and four runs in six -plus for the Astros, including an when Kelly Shoppach struck Rockies manager Jim Tracy some runs early and I could-innings in his Astros debut. RBI hit in the fourth. out. said they should have scored n’t make it stand up.” 
Rowand, the Giants’ leadoff Orioles second baseman more. Gerut doubled, scoring man, and Renteria, the No. 2 Rays 4. Orioles 3 Brian Roberts went 0 for 5 “We were in a wonderful McGehee to give Milwaukee a hitter, each drove in two runs. Evan Longoria homered and and is hitless in 10 at-bats. position to take this game and 5-4 lead. Gerut remained 
Uribe made it 5-4 when he drove in three runs, Matt He was limited to six games force the Brewers, in my poised after dodging a ball during spring training opinion, to have to pitch nine high and inside earlier in the because of a slightly herniat-innings of bullpen today,” at-bat. ed disc in his back. Tracy said. “But we kind of “You just wait for something 
let them off the hook.” to hit — and make sure it’s Brewers 5, Rockies 4 Backup catcher Miguel not coming at your head — 
Ryan Braun and Prince Olivo homered for Colorado. and try to put a good swing Fielder weren’t carrying the Carlos Gonzales had two hits, on it,” Gerut said. offense like they usually do. keeping up his fast start to It was a shaky return to the And the Milwaukee Brewers the season. Brewers for Davis, who didn’t get anything approach-Tracy dipped deep into his rejoined his old team as a ing the kind of start they’re bench only three games into free agent in the offseason expecting from Doug Davis the season, giving first base-after three seasons in Arizona this season. man Todd Helton, outfielder — a stint that included treat-
So Jim Edmonds started a Brad Hawpe, catcher Chris ments for thyroid cancer in sixth-inning rally from the Iannetta and second baseman 2008. Davis first pitched for bottom half of the lineup and Clint Barnes the day off. Milwaukee from 2003-06. the Brewers’ bullpen stood Helton and Hawpe appeared He was wild from the start firm, holding the Colorado as pinch-hitters in the ninth Wednesday, giving up three Rockies scoreless over the as Hoffman earned his second runs, walking three and final five innings in a victory save of the season, moving throwing a pair of wild pitch-Wednesday. him closer to becoming the es in the first inning alone. It 
Milwaukee took two of three first pitcher with 600 career could have been even worse. from Colorado after losing the saves. “It wasn ’t a complete season opener. “They did the small things blowout,” Macha said. “It 
“That’s not a pushover team to win today,” Troy Tulowitzki could have gotten ugly in the by any means — that’s a good said. “We didn’t. That’s basi-first inning.” team,” said Milwaukee’s Jody cally what it comes down to.” Macha said Davis was “a lit-Gerut, whose pinch-hit RBI Edmonds, a 39-year-old for-tle too amped up” Wednesday, double gave the Brewers the mer All-Star who spent last and Davis didn’t disagree. lead in the sixth. “And so it season out of baseball, made “I was really trying to do took almost all of us to win, his second start in right field too much out there — just but we got it today.” for Milwaukee. He went 2 for exactly pretty much what I 
Reliever Todd Coffey (1-0) 4 with a double and scored told myself not to do,” Davis pitched two scoreless innings twice. said. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For Dwight: Second Life is not a game. more information, visit ND's web It is a multi-user, virtual environ-

WANTED FOR RENT FOR RENT PERSONAL site: ment. It doesn't have points or 
http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu scores. It doesn't have winners or SUMMER SALES INTERNSHIP gradrentals.viewwork.com Graduation Weekend hotel rooms: If you or someone you care about ——————————————— losers. with an energetic start up company. ——————————————— We have two rooms at the Hilton has been sexually assaulted, we I think it's great that the company's Jim: Oh, it has losers. Must have strong communications, ATTN: Grad Student-faculty. Garden Inn for ND-SMC graduation can help. For more information, visit making a commercial. Because not ——————————————— computer, and time management weekend. Rooms are available Notre Dame's website: very many people have heard of us. Dwight: I signed up for Second Life skills. Benefits include flexible loca-Spacious 2-bdrm, 2.5 bath home, Thursday, Friday and Saturday. http.csap.nd.edu I mean, when I tell people that I about a year ago. Back then, my life tion and work schedule for 20 self-LR, DR, FR, Florida Room. The Hilton Garden Inn is ideally ———————————————-work at Dunder Mifflin, they think was so great I literally wanted a motivated ND students who enjoy located on SMC campus and right UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do that we sell mufflers. second one. team competition. Design experi-Fenced yard, 2-car garage. across from ND. not go it alone. Notre Dame has Or muffins. Absolutely everything was the ence is not necessary but a plus. Security. Rooms offered at their face value. If many resources in place to assist Or mittens. And frankly, all of those same... except I could fly. Send resume to Near ND. interested, email you. If you or someone you love sound better than paper, so I let it ——————————————— mmurtaghm@aol.com 262-332-0015. fontanaricci@mac.com needs confidential support or assis-slide. G and C Forever!! ——————————————— ——————————————— ———————————————-tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 

Thursday, April 8, 2010 page 13 
USTFCCCA Division I Men’s Outdoor Track and Field Poll 
team previous 
1  Florida  1  
2  Texas A&M  2  
3  Oregon  3  
4  Texas Tech  5  
5  Florida St.  4  
6  Southern Cal.  6  
7  Auburn  7  
8  LSU  8  
9  South Carolina  11  
10  Arizona St.  9  
11  Mississippi St.  12  
12  Nebraska  10  
13  Oklahoma  13  
14  Baylor  19  
15  Louisville  14  
16  Virginia Tech  17  
17  Mississippi  23  
18  Arkansas  15  
19  California  18  
20  BYU  24  
21  Minnesota  20  
22  Kansas St.  NR  
23  Washington St.  22  
24  Tennessee  21  
25  Wisconsin  25  

USTFCCCA Division I Women’s Outdoor Track and Field Poll 
team  previous  
1  Texas A&M  1  
2  Oregon  2  
3  LSU  3  
4  Florida St.  5  
5  Florida  4  
6  Penn St.  14  
7  Baylor  6  
8  Southern Cal.  7  
9  Oklahoma  8  
10  Virginia Tech  9  
11  UTEP  11  
12  BYU  10  
13  Washington  12  
14  Auburn  13  
15  Nebraska  16  
16  Texas  17  
17  Arizona  NR  
18  Miami (Fla.)  15  
19  South Carolina  22  
20  UCLA  18  
21  Stanford  19  
22  Louisville  20  
23  Arkansas  NR  
24  Tennessee (W)  23  
25  North Carolina  24  

PGA 


Payne unhappy with Woods’ conduct 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. — On the day Tiger Woods arrived at the Masters, he changed out of his spikes after playing nine holes, walked across the parking lot and went upstairs to the office of Augusta National chairman Billy Payne. 
Payne would not discuss details of their Sunday after­noon meeting. 
Based on his blunt criti­cism of Woods during his annual press conference Wednesday, they probably weren’t talking about how Woods was hitting the ball or his chances of winning a fifth green jacket. 
“It is simply not the degree of his conduct that is so egre­gious here,” Payne said. “It is the fact that he disappointed all of us, and more impor­tantly, our kids and our grandkids. Our hero did not live up to the expectations of the role model we saw for our children.” 
They were the strongest words from a Masters chair­man since Hootie Johnson’s famous “point of a bayonet” reply to Martha Burk in the summer of 2002 when he defended the club’s right to an all-male membership. 
Payne was one of the Augusta National members who stood among the Georgia pines to the right of the first fairway on Monday, the first time Woods played before a gallery since being caught cheating on his wife five months ago. 
No other golf official has been so outspoken about Woods’ behavior. 
No other major is like the Masters. 
Even though Woods is a four-time champion and the No. 1 player in the world, he is at Augusta National by invitation, just like the other 95 players who will tee it up on Thursday. 
Woods had already played his final practice round — nine holes with Mark O’Meara — and left the course when Payne held his news conference. The chair­man saved his thoughts on Woods for the end of his opening statement. 
“Is there a way forward? I hope yes. I think yes,” Payne said. “But certainly, his future will never again be measured only by his per­formance against par; but measured by the sincerity of his efforts to change. 
“I hope he now realizes that every kid he passes on the course wants his swing, but would settle for his smile.” 
It was the final press con­ference before the Masters begins with more scrutiny — more curiosity — than ever of Woods. No one knows what to expect from his game because Woods has not competed since winning the Australian Masters on Nov. 15. 
“He should do pretty good 
— he's coming off a win,” Robert Allenby cracked. 



around the dial 
NCAA Men’s Frozen Four Wisconsin vs. RIT 5 p.m., ESPN 2 
Boston College vs. Miami (Ohio) 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 2 
IN BRIEF 
Phillies claim Figueroa off of waivers to boost bullpen 
WASHINGTON — Nelson Figueroa has been claimed off waivers by the Philadelphia Phillies, who hope the right-hander can bolster an injury-depleted bullpen. 
The 35-year-old was designated for assignment by the New York Mets on Monday. He was 3-8 with a 4.09 ERA in 16 games, including 10 starts, for the Mets last year. 
With relievers Brad Lidge and J.C. Romero starting the season on the dis­abled list, the Phillies are hoping that Figueroa can add stability to the bullpen while pitching in long relief. 
“He’s got good command and he knows how to pitch,” Phillies manager Charlie Manuel said. “We wanted a guy who could build our pitching up.” 
Manuel expects Figueroa to report for Thursday's game at Washington. Philadelphia will make a roster move at that time for the pitcher, who comes rel­atively cheaply with a $418,000 salary. 
NHL announces Hurricanes will soon host All-Star game 
RALEIGH, N.C. — The Carolina Hurricanes will soon host an NHL All-Star game. 
Commissioner Gary Bettman is sched­uled to attend a news conference in Raleigh on Thursday afternoon for what the team called a “major” announce­ment. Hurricanes general manager Jim Rutherford said the team will host an All-Star game at the RBC Center in one of the next three seasons, though he did-n’t confirm which year. 
The franchise hosted the 2004 NHL draft, and the area has since added more high-end hotel rooms and opened a new convention center that the league had said were needed to attract the all-star game. 
“This is a big announcement for us,” Rutherford said Wednesday. “We had a very successful draft in Raleigh. We’ve had some good runs in the playoffs. People that come to our market are excited about being here.” 
Forbes names Yankees most valuable team 
NEW YORK — The New York Yankees are worth nearly twice as much as any other team in baseball, according to the annual estimates by Forbes magazine. 
The Yankees were valued at $1.6 bil­lion, Forbes said Wednesday, up 7 per­cent from a $1.5 billion value last year. Boston was next, going up 4 percent to $870 million and was followed by the New York Mets, who dropped 6 percent to $858 million. The Los Angeles Dodgers, caught in divorce proceedings of its owners, were fourth with a 1 per­cent increase to $727 million. 
Minnesota had a 14 percent rise to $405 million following its move to Target Field. 
Pittsburgh was last at $289 million, just below Oakland, which dropped 8 per­cent to $295 million.500,000-square­foot convention center opened in September 2008, while the area has also added nearly 800 four-and five-star hotel rooms in the past three years. 

page 14 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 8, 2010 Thursday, April 8, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NBA 

Nelson breaks record for most wins as coach 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — Don Nelson, one of the NBA’s true mavericks, is now the league’s winningest coach. 
Nelson set the career record for victories in the Golden State Warriors’ 116-107 win over the Minnesota Timberwolves on Wednesday night, notching win No. 1,333 to surpass Lenny Wilkens. 
Stephen Curry had 27 points, 14 assists, eight rebounds and a career-high seven steals and Anthony Tolliver scored a career-high 34 points to get Nelson over the hump. 
He is 1,333-1,061 in 31 sea­sons on the bench. 
Kevin Love had 17 points and 18 rebounds for the Timberwolves, who cut a 27­point deficit 108-104 with 43.6 seconds left. 
But the Warriors closed the game out at the free throw line and Ronny Turiaf(notes) poured a cup of Gatorade onto Nelson’s gray head of hair as the team engulfed their 69-year-old coach to celebrate. 
It was extra special for Nelson to do it in Minnesota. He has a daughter who lives in the Minneapolis suburb of Minnetonka and had 20 family and friends at the game, includ­ing his wife. 
He wasn’t in the reflecting mood before the game, but said he has been in contact with Wilkens as he has approached the record. 
“Lenny’s been an idol of mine for a long time,” he said. 
This has been a long season for the Warriors (24-54), who have been ravaged by injuries and are a lock to finish with their fewest wins since 2001-02, when they won only 21 games. But in some ways, this was the perfect team to take Nelson to the top of the record books. 
The Warriors played their sixth straight game without Monta Ellis (flu) and also were again without Anthony Randolph (ankle) and Kelenna Azubuike (knee). Center Andris Biedrins (sports hernia) and forward Brandan Wright (shoulder) have missed big chunks of time this season too. 
The Warriors have called up five players from the Development League this season, which is tied with the 2007-08 Spurs for the most in one season. Tolliver and Chris Hunter — who both played big roles in the record-setting win — are former D-Leaguers and C.J. Watson and Azubuike also have played there in past seasons. 
Nelson has built a reputation as a “mad scientist,” experiment­ing with lineups and offensive sets to cater to teams that were not always the biggest, strongest or most talented. In his first stint with Golden State in the late 1980s, he employed the famous “Run T-M-C” lineup of guards Tim Hardaway, Mitch Richmond and Chris Mullin to make the Warriors one of the more enter­taining teams in the league. 
Nelson got his first head coach­ing job with Milwaukee in 1976 when he replaced Larry Costello 19 games into the season. He has also coached the Dallas Mavericks and New York Knicks and returned to the Warriors in 2006-07, when he led the eighth-seeded team to an upset of top-seeded Dallas in the first round of the Western Conference play­offs. 
Through it all, Nelson has always done it his way. He’s clashed with players, manage­ment and ownership at various stops along the way and is the only coach with at least 1,000 career victories who has yet to be inducted into the Hall of Fame. But his Nelson has sur­vived through it all in an industry where service time is measured in months, not years. 
“The success he’s had, the longevity he’s had, it’s tough to be a coach in this league and to stick around as long as he has,” Timberwolves coach Kurt Rambis said before the game. “To have the success that he’s had, the numerous situations he’s been in. He’s done a great job.” 




page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 8, 2010 
half began. try too hard,” Karches joked. upon both teams as the court game against the tourna ­From there, the Zach “A few of our players are was filled with puddles and ment’s second seed. 
Attack 


Attack! players realized they looking to get drafted by the the rain continued to drive “You play to win the game,” continued from page 20 had to pick up the pace. And Nets.” down throughout the game. It Eric Bens said. “The first half they did. was not until late in the game we were relaxed, but in the of the game, as Zach Attack! “We were never really Broslikethisteam.com 21, that Broslikethisteam.com second half we didn’t really beat the all-female team of scared we were going to We Are Foul 8 begin to pull away as the rain play well. It was nice to just Let’s Be Strong. lose,” senior Zach Karches It was all about the Bro’s as continued to pound the play-come out and enjoy playing in The game was riddled with said. Broslikethisteam.com defeat-ers. a game that wasn’t really all 
turnovers and fast breaks, but While the men certainly ed We Are Foul despite a “They played great, tena-that competitive.” 
the main difference came picked up their game, Let’s Be downpour throughout the cious defense,” 
right in front of the basket, Strong did as well, answering game. Broslikethisteam.com junior The Berg is the Word 21, 
where the men consistently almost every point scored by Broslikethisteam.com struck Kevin Laughlin said. Hey Tiger, Dead in the Hole 
made their lay-ups. their opponents and even early and came out with an Despite the loss, We Are 7 Following half time, both holding them at 19 for a long early lead. When the Bros Foul played well against a The Berg is the Word rode 
sides experienced a long series of possessions. eased up on defense, We Are good opponent. The team said strong perimeter defense and drought. However Let’s Be Strong could Foul would strike with a bas-that overall, they played their good passing to a win over “We’ve only scored one shot not recover from the 11 -4 ket. We Are Foul proved that best and battled through the Hey Tiger, Dead in the Hole. since half?” senior Alex lead the men had taken at to be a tough team and didn’t rough playing conditions. The five Dillon freshmen Wheeler shouted after asking half. need to foul to stay in the “I felt that we played a that make up The Berg is the the commissioner for the “We’re hoping to get as far game. great game,” We Are Foul Word — Matt Losego, Matt 
score long after the second as we can without having to The weather wreaked havoc senior Joy Feeney said. Enzweiler, Taylor Guinn, With the win, Thomas Corr and Bobby Broslik ethi steam.com Manfreda — said they found advanced to the second inspiration for their team’s round. name in one of their other friends. Bus Drivers 21, Five “We’re playing in honor of a Glorious Mysteries 5 friend, Daniel Stromberg,” The Bus Drivers used their Enzweiler said. athleticism to overwhelm Five Corr’s defense at point Glorious Mysteries en route to guard led to a number of a blowout victory Tuesday. steals, and Berg is the Word Five Glorious Mysteries, was able to convert those consisting of two freshmen, a steals into a number of fast sophomore and two juniors break opportunities. After from Old College, struggled in getting off to an early lead, the first half to find their they never looked back as Hey rhythm as their shots would Tiger essentially abandoned not fall. They picked it up in conventional basketball in the second half, but the speed favor of attempting trick and strength of the Bus plays. The freshmen of Hey Drivers was too much as they Tiger did not seem upset were able to get a number of about the loss. easy layups on breakaways. “Losing in this manner just “We were outmatched, but makes me appreciate moz­overall it ended with everyone zarella cheese that much happy,” Holy Cross junior more,” Casey Lilek said. Brendan MacAlear said. “It Berg, meanwhile, was was a good effort and I wish pleased with his team’s effort we could have gone a bit fur-as it looks to continue through ther.” the Bookstore bracket. After the game, Mysteries “We appreciated their effort sophomore Chris Brennan led and their team,” Enzweiler both teams in a prayer as said. “But ultimately if you’re they knelt and held hands not first you’re last.” after a hard -fought game. Both teams left the prayer in Contact Megan Finneran at good spirits as the five fresh-mfnnera@nd.edu, Tim Singler men on the Bus Drivers at tsingler@nd.edu and Chris looked forward to their next Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
tory at No. 6 singles. The other victory for the 
Belles 
Belles came from the No. 2 dou­continued from page 20 bles duo. Juniors Jillian Hurley 
and Mary Therese Lee won an Two of the Belles’ three points 8-4 decision over Jill VanVeen came in singles play, as senior and Rachel Strikwerda. Camille Gebert won her match The rest over Easter break at No. 2 singles 6-4, 6-4, and allowed some Saint Mary’s play-Grabarek earned a 6-0, 6-4 vic-ers to heal their injuries and 


return to full health as they head toward the stretch run. The last match the team com­peted in was a 9-0 victory over Trine College on March 30. 
The Belles (8-4, 2-1 MIAA) will travel to the University of Chicago Monday in their final non-conference match of the season. The Maroons are cur­rently ranked third in the nation and will provide another chal­lenge for the Belles as the regu­lar season begins to wind down. 
“We’re getting to the end and we’re looking to pull out some wins,” Grabarek said. “The University of Chicago is extremely tough and will be a good test for us. We also have a couple matches (at Albion and at Kalamazoo) later in the week.” 
The MIAA conference champi­onships will be held three weeks from Friday, and Grabarek said the Belles expect to make some noise in the tournament and create trouble for teams like Calvin (11-2, 4-0). 
“We had several close match­es,” Grabarek said. “If we see them again and play well, things could go differently.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at 
aowens@nd.edu 

Thursday, April 8, 2010 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 8, 2010 
Mass 
continued from page 20 
private Mass Tuesday night in honor of James. 
“I think it was good closure for some of our players,” he said. “I think everybody asked the question why, and the Mass was really to kind of try to answer some of those questions.” 
The football program and Notre Dame are doing as much as they can for the James family. 
“We’re going to fly out as a staff Friday to the memorial. I think it’s important to be able to see the family face-to­face,” Kelly said. “Obviously Matt did not play here, but he’ll always be part of the Notre Dame family and we want to make sure that mes­sage is clear.” 
Junior tight end Kyle Rudolph will also attend the funeral, according to Kelly. 
The news of the tragedy spread quickly to South Bend Friday. 
“Immediately … somebody close to [James] notified me,” Kelly said. “My first instinct was how we could help the family. We were able to arrange transportation for the family that night.” 
Kelly also said the University and the football program are in discussions about a campus-wide tribute in honor of James, but noth­ing has been finalized yet. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

Kelly 
continued from page 20 
side, but that obviously was part of the plan as well, we wanted to make sure we could keep their focus,” Kelly said. 
Junior linebacker Anthony McDonald said he was not sur­prised about practicing outside in the rain. 
“We’re going to be playing on nights like this during the season, so you’ve got to prepare some­how,” McDonald said. “We went inside for a little bit, but honestly I kind of like being outside in the elements. It makes you tougher. I’m a linebacker — you’ve got to be tough.” 
After its last practice, on March 31, Kelly said he was not happy with the team’s performance. He said he saw improvements Wednesday. 
“Today was small steps, but I was pleased that they got the message about how we’re sup­posed to practice on a day-to-day basis,” Kelly said. 
Junior tight end Kyle Rudolph credited the break for the team’s improved performance. 
“We got to go home over break, and it kind of gave everybody an entire week to sit down with their playbook and just learn,” Rudolph said. “I felt like today we came out and you could tell guys weren’t thinking, they were just playing. And when you don’t have to think about it, it just clicks like second nature.” 
Despite the weather, the prac­tice began with field goal kicks from sophomore Nick Tausch and senior Brandon Walker, who was sidelined for much of 2009 with a back injury. Tausch made the farthest field goal, a 50-yard kick. Walker converted all of his attempts but did not have time to try from 50 yards. 
Kelly said the energy was high for the first hour and a half of practice, but that he is still look­ing for the team to put together a good two hours. 
“We had the body language starting to show itself, a couple of our players were looking like they were defeated, like they were a little tired,” he said. “We made good progress. We started better and we gave it all we could for the first 15 [out of 24] peri­ods.” 
The Irish will hold their sixth practice Friday as they continue to prepare for the Blue-Gold Game on April 24. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 



1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  
13  14  
15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  23  24  25  
26  27  28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  
35  36  37  
38  39  40  41  42  
43  44  
45  46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  53  54  55  
56  57  58  59  60  
61  62  
63  64  


Thursday, April 8, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
Across 34 *Better, in hip­1 Proceed without hop slang? notes, say 35 Spanish waves 6 How kids grow 36 Church perch up, it's often said 

37 “___ in London” 13 Soviet space 
(jazz album) dog 38 *Kitchen or living14 *One who room?

dislikes unrulyhair? 

41 Like XX vis-à-vis 
15 Spy satellite's X, sizewise acquisition 43 “American 16 Bygone Beauty” setting 

emporium 44 Canadian station 17 ___ position sign 18 Housewares 45 *Via Veneto? 
brand 
47 Villainous 19 Felipe 
member of the Calderón's land: Serpent Society, 

Abbr. in Marvel 
20 Night class subj.21 *Alternative way Comics to get 50 39-Down vote directions? 
53 FedEx rival 26 Heroic verse 54 Half of a 1980s
28 Artist's portfolio sitcom duo 

32 “Molly ___,”popular Irish 56 Football's Adam song Vinatieri, e.g. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


60 Sewers have them 
61 *Be funnier than 
comedian Bill? 
62 Pick 
63 2003 hip-hop hitby Fabolous 
64 Pharmacy units 
Down 
1 Subtitle of manybiographies 2 The majority ofJutlanders 3 Mary's charge 
4 Retail giant founded by a 17­year-old 
5 Swell 6 Song sung by an orphan 7 Expose,poetically 8 Sounds of surprise 
9 Stout 
10 ___ smasher 
11 Very dry 
12 “The Lost World” 
menace 
14 Answer to each of the six starred 
clues, literally 
16 Play-___ 
22 Literary 
monogram 
23 Chip, maybe 
24 Amaze 
25 Piccolo players, e.g. 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by David J. Kahn  
27 Affected one  36 Devotional  51 Nebraska  
29 Masked men with blades 30 Big blow? 31 Alpha, beta or gamma 32 Eponymousscale developer 33 Diamond family name  bench 39 Voting 50-Across 40 1972 treaty subj. 41 Judge's cry 42 Red-faced 46 Pilot's abbr. 48 “___ when?” 49 Gadflies, e.g. 50 Hairy Himalayan  senator succeeded byHagel52 Datebook entry:Abbr. 55 “Fiesque”composer57 I love, to Livy58 Scotland's Firth of ___ 59 Greek character  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 



JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Thursday, April 8, 2010 page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Kelly, Irish remember Matt James 
Team practices outside despite heavy storms 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
A little rain wouldn’t stop the Irish from holding their fifth spring practice outside — but a little lightning did. 
“This is wonderful weather. I appreciate finally getting back to reality here,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “We tried to … get our players to understand what it takes to develop their skill and that is to be mentally locked in for 24 [five minute] periods [each practice].” 
Notre Dame resumed practice Wednesday after taking a week off for the Easter holiday. Though it was raining hard, the Irish spent the first 45 minutes outside before thunder and lighting drove the team inside. However, once the storm cleared, the team moved out again. 
“We had to move around a lit­tle bit today, we went inside, out-
see KELLY/page 18 

EILEEN VEIHMEYER/The Observer Irish receivers and tight ends, including, from right, junior Michael Floyd, senior Duval Kamara and junior Kyle Rudolph, run drills in the rain Wednesday in the fifth of 15 spring practices. 
Team helped by Tues. Mass in James’ honor 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
In many ways, the rain throughout Wednesday ’s practice summed up the mood around the football complex. After the practice, Irish coach Brian Kelly said practice and classes were helping the Irish cope with the tragic death of incoming offensive lineman Matt James Friday. 
“There’s grieving still going on, but it doesn’t have to take hold of the team for the whole day,” Kelly said. “You have to focus on your class­room. You’re going to come out here for two hours and you’re going to be intensely committed to being the best player, and then you’re going to carry that with you in your downtime.” 
Kelly said the team held a 
see MASS/page 18 


BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Pangstas rout Flock of Ostri to advance to second round 
By MEGAN FINNERAN, TIM 
SINGLER AND CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writers 
Even with two men on their team, the Flock of Ostri could not compete with the Pangstas. 
The four Pangborn women and one Walsh resident beat the Flock 21-10, dominating the majority of the game. 
“It felt liberating for a team of all girls to beat one with some guys,” senior Annie Kotz said. 
The athletic ability, skill and cooperation of the Pangstas became evident immediately, as they scored on their first possession after a string of organized and well-executed passes. The men of the Flock had the strength advantage and held the edge in rebounds throughout the game, but the communication of the Pangstas cancelled out any physical advantages. 
“They threw some chal ­lenges at us, but I think we did all right,” sophomore Liz Pawlak said. 
During the second half, it became clear the Pangstas would come out on top. They had a succession of five unan­swered points, only interrupt­ed when one of the Pangstas fell while trying to defend a fast break by the Flock. 
The biggest factor between the two was their movement back and forth across the court. The Flock put up wild shots, moving the ball wher­ever they could. On the other hand, the Pangstas looked as if they had practiced together as they quickly moved down the court with sharp passes, resulting in easy lay-ups. 
“We didn’t practice before this, but we’ve all played Pangborn interhall football and basketball together,” Kotz said. 
After a career of sports together in Pangborn, there is 
BASEBALL & SOFTBALL 

Nasty weather postpones fve games 
Observer Staff Report 
Wednesday’s heavy rains and occasional thunder and lightning forced postpone­ments for Notre Dame’s baseball game with Western Michigan, Notre Dame’s softball doubleheader against Bowling Green and Saint Mary’s softball double­header at Albion. 
No makeup date has been scheduled for the match-up with Western Michigan. The Irish baseball team (10-17, 1-5 Big East) will next host Rutgers in a three -game conference series this week­end, with first pitches at 
5:05 p.m. Friday, 1:05 p.m. Saturday and 12:05 p.m. Sunday. 
The two games opposite Bowling Green have been rescheduled for April 28, beginning at 4 p.m. The doubleheader will now con­tribute to a span of nine games in nine days for the Irish from April 21-29. 

Before then the No. 23 Irish (26-6, 5-0) will host South Florida in a three-game Big East series this weekend, with a double ­header Saturday. The first pitch Saturday will be at noon, and the game will be televised on CBS College Sports. The second half of the doubleheader will start at 2 p.m. Sunday’s first pitch will also be at noon. 
No date has been deter­mined to make up the Belles games with Albion. Saint Mary ’s (13 -9, 2-0 MIAA) next plays Saturday as the Belles host Alma at 2 p.m. 

no other way these women would rather end the year than with a few more wins in the tournament. 
Zach Attack! 21, Let’s Be Strong 13 
A turnover forced by Zach Attack! in the first possession of the game led them to score an easy lay -up by senior Jonathan Becker. That first shot set the tone for the rest 
see ATTACK/page 16 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles drop match 6-3 to Calvin 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
The Belles showed no signs of rust following a layoff over Easter break but were unable to overcome a superior team in their 6-3 loss to No. 13 Calvin College Wednesday. 
“We played a really tough team,” said junior Kate Grabarek, an Observer sports­writer. “It shows us where we are. We lost to them 8-1 last year, so this shows we have improved. They are a very solid team.” 
see BELLES/page 16 






