the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


‘ND 88’ subpoenas former V.P. 
Judge allows deposition of Bill Kirk in case of protests surrounding Obama’s 2009 visit 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
A St. Joseph County judge is allowing the deposition of for­mer associate vice president for Residence Life Bill Kirk in the case of 88 protesters, known as the “ND 88,” who were arrested for trespassing on campus dur­ing President Barack Obama’s visit in May 2009. 
Judge Michael Scopelitis over­ruled a motion by the prosecu­tion to prevent the subpoena of Kirk’s testimony, but did not allow the defense access to doc­uments regarding Kirk’s employment status at the University, according to St. Joseph County Superior Court documents filed Sept. 20. 
“The deposition of Bill Kirk was contested because much of the information the defendant sought related to Mr. Kirk’s departure from the Office of Student Affairs, which is irrele­vant to the trespass cases,” University spokesman Dennis Brown said. 
Kirk’s position as associate vice president was eliminated this summer. Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Thomas Doyle told The Observer earlier this month that Kirk’s position was removed as a result of restructuring in the Office of Student Affairs. 

During the demonstrations protesting Obama’s visit, Kirk oversaw the Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) and was in charge of approving campus demonstrations. 


Dining halls cater to students’ special diets 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
For sophomore Katie Pryor, the worst thing about having celiac disease on campus is being locked into eating at the dining halls. 
“If I miss a meal at the din­ing hall,” she said, “I miss a meal.” 
Pryor was diagnosed with the autoimmune disease freshman year. She cannot have any gluten — a protein found in wheat, barley, rye, oats and hydrolyzed oils. 
“For the first three weeks, I had fruit and vegetables for every meal because I didn’t know what to eat,” Pryor said. 

Jocie Antonelli, manager of nutrition and safety for Food Services, said her department uses many mediums, includ­ing a website, signs and e­mails to reach out to students with dietary needs. 
“We want to keep students safe,” she said. 
Measures to keep students safe range from specially prepared meals and shopping for specialty foods to rear­ranging cereals and salad bars for nut and egg aller­
see MEALS/page 5 




ND makes silk worm discovery 

By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
A collaborative research effort successfully produced transgenic silkworms capable of spinning artificial spider silks — a breakthrough that will lead to medical and non-medical applications, the University announced at a press conference Wednesday morning. 
“The generation of silk fibers having the properties of spider silks has been one of the important goals in materials science,” Malcolm Fraser, pro­fessor of biological sciences, said. “It’s definitely a very exciting day at Notre Dame.” 
Notre Dame worked with the University of Wyoming and biotechnology company Kraig Biocraft Laboratories, Inc. on the research. 
Spider silk is known for its strength, flexibility and tough-
see WORM/page 4 


The court order stipulates that the defense can ask Kirk why he no longer holds his administrative position at the University, but Kirk is not required to bring documents that deal with his employment status at Notre Dame. 
The court document states that the Court reviewed Kirk’s and the University’s confidential separation agreement and found that it says nothing relat­ed to the criminal proceedings. Scopelitis ruled that Kirk is not obligated to disclose the docu­ment. 
The Thomas More Society, a pro-life law center, is oversee­ing the trials of the 88 protest­ers, who are being charged with criminal trespass. 
A Thomas More Society press release states that the defense 
see ND88/page 5 




Student-only rally returns 

By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
It’s the pep rally equivalent of a philosophy paper — cut the flowery prose and get to the point. 
That means less waiting around, no media, no skits, no videos, no alumni and no administrators at tonight’s pep rally. 
A students-only pep rally for the Boston College game will take place at 8 p.m. tonight in the Stepan Center. 
Irish coach Brian Kelly, the team’s gameday captains and leprechaun David Zimmer will be the featured speakers. The doors will open at 6:30 p.m. and the rally is expected to end around 8:30 p.m., said Barrick Bollman, chairman of the organizing committee for the pep rally. 
Students will need to present a valid Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s or Holy Cross ID to gain entrance and only the first 2,300 students will be admitted. 
Last year, a similar pep rally took place before the Michigan game, Bollman said. 
“I think that last year’s stu­dent-only pep rally was univer­
see RALLY/page 5 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students in London experience pope’s visit page 3  Jill Godmilow page 8  Crist ready to run more page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Thursday, September 30, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE A FEW OF YOUR FAVOR TE TH NGS?

THE OBSERVER 








P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Sarah Mervosh Kelsey Manning John Cameron Chris Allen Sara Felsenstein Molly Sammon 
Graphics Scene 
Melissa Kaduck Alex Kilpatrick 
Photo Viewpoint 
Tom La Megan Kozak 
OFFBEAT 

Three jailed for tourist scams in central London 
LONDON – Three people have been jailed for carry­ing out a scam to steal from more than 100 Japanese tourists in central London, police said on Tuesday. 
The gang targeted tourists at attractions such as the British Museum and the Oxford Street shopping area. 
One, a woman, would pose as a tourist and ask a genuine visitor for direc­tions or to take a photo for her. Other gang members would then approach and pretend to be police offi­cers and demand details of the tourists’ identity and credit cards. 
Chris Bell  Chris Jennis  Erin Mueller  Laura Philipp  Neil O’Dougherty  Rachel Tran  
junior  sophomore  junior  junior  sophomore  junior  
Knott  Alumni  Howard  Pasquerilla West  Keenan  Farley  

“Being 21 and  “Good football  “The Cubs,  “Reading  “Mechanical  “Getting tickets  
the ‘We Are ND’  teams and  Christmas  Smalltalk (the  pencils and  to the Army/ND  
music video by  uninvolved  music and  world’s hottest  raindrops on  game in New  
Freekbass.”  cops.”  Duck, North  new blog),  roses.”  York.”  
Carolina.”  Scrabble games  
and slaying  

dragons.” 




Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

The woman would com­ply and encourage the gen­uine tourists to do so as well. The group would then take the cards and with­draw cash or make expen­sive purchases. 
Detectives said the group was responsible for more than 70 offences while the Japanese Embassy said it had received more than 100 reports of such thefts or attempted thefts carried out against Japanese nationals. 
TV host announces wrong winner for Top Model 
SYDNEY – Producers of Australia’s Next Top Model have been left red faced after supermodel host Sarah Murdoch announced the wrong winner in what news­papers said was the country’s most awkward TV moment. 
Murdoch, the daughter-in­law of media baron Rupert Murdoch, was close to tears after realizing she had mis­takenly announced Sydney 19-year old Kelsey Martinovich as the winner of the Foxtel TV series during the live finale. 
Martinovich had completed her acceptance speech before Murdoch backtracked on stage to reveal the real win­ner from a public vote was 18-year-old Gold Coast rival Amanda Ware. 
“I don’t know what to say right now. I’m feeling a bit sick about this,” Murdoch told a 2,000­strong live audience. 
IN BRIEF 
FTT Talks presents Natalija Nogulich , Actress and Director, today at 6 p.m. Ms. Nogulich has taught acting and directing for over thirty years, and currently teaches at the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, California. The lecture will take place in room 160 in Mendoza School of Business. 
The Department of Film, Television, and Theater pres­ents “The Bible: The Complete Word of God (abridged). The play will be performed today at 7:30 p.m. in the Philbin Studio Theatre. This production puts the fun back in fundamental­ism with a madcap trip through old time religion. Tickets are $10 for all stu­dents and can be purched online or by calling the Ticket Office. 
For the first time on Monday, Notre Dame will cel­ebrate the Feast of St. Francis of Assissi, patron saint of the environment. Mass will be celebrated by Father Bill Lies at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 5:15 p.m. At 8 p.m., Dan DiLeo of the Catholic Coalition on Climate Change will pres­ent A Catholic Approach to Climate Change in the Geddes Coffeehouse, followed by discussion and a reception. 
Alexamder Revzin, associ­ate professor of biomedical engineering at the University of California at Davis, will present a seminar in micropatterned surfaces Tuesday in room 138 of DeBartolo Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight FRIDAY SATURDAY sUNDAy MONdaY 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



67 54 HIGH 6556 5556
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


45 45 LOW 4338 3940 






Thursday, September 30, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Students studying in London see the pope 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Several students studying abroad in London this semester will have an especially exciting story to tell others upon their return — they saw the pope. 
“The experience was great,” junior Rachel Chalich said. “Being in such a large group of people from such diverse back­grounds really showed how uni­versal the Catholic Church can be.” 
Chalich said they were offered the chance to see Pope Benedict XVI during their orientation at the beginning of their semester abroad. 
“It was still very preliminary and our chaplain, Fr. John, wasn’t sure if he would even be able to get tickets,” she said. “We had to enter our names into a lottery and hope that, first, Fr. John would be able to get tickets and, second, that we would be selected to go.” 
Junior Juliet Palko said they were eventually able to purchase tickets from the London Program to attend the prayer vigil in Hyde Park. The service was open to the public for a fee and around 80,000 people attended, she said. 
“Rather than actually ‘seeing’ the pope in person, I think the most rewarding experience was being able to see all of the people who came out to honor him,” Palko said. 
Both Chalich and Palko were surprised by how much the British people revered the pope. 
“Here where this sense of being ‘English’ is somewhat associated with the Anglican Church, it was great to see the sense of pride British Catholics had,” Chalich said. 
The cost of the visit to the British government was some­where around 22 million pounds, which some local newspapers criticized, Palko said. 
“I was surprised at all the criti­cism of the pope that I found in the local newspapers, but at the same time I understood where they were coming from on some points,” she said. 
During the prayer vigil, Palko said the pope was not very acces­sible to the public. He was only present for about 1.5 out of the six hours she was there and when he spoke, he read from a script, she said. 
“I also thought it was funny to see the ‘pope mobile,’ which encases the pope in glass as he parades down the streets at about five mph to wave to all of his onlookers,” she said. 
But Palko said the experience was still worthwhile. 
“I thought it was a once in a lifetime experience,” she said. “It was great to be in Hyde Park with 79,999 other spiritual, respectful people just looking to worship on a Saturday afternoon.” 

Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 



page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 30, 2010 
SGA 

Board sets budget for academic year 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) approved its revised budget Wednesday with a majority vote. 
The new budget presented to the Board had the same numbers as the previous budget, but stu­dent body president Rachael Chesley said the finance commit­tee added a rationale, which helped clarify the decisions they made. 
“The finance committee was happy it was brought back to review so they could come up with a rationale and really be able to solidify why decisions were made in the first place,” Chesley said. 
Two concerns voiced in last week’s meeting were about the amount of money allotted to class boards and where the Capital Fund, money allotted for general campus improvements, would go. 
Class boards had asked for additional funds to pay for events such as parents’ weekends, but Griffin said that would be out of the realm of possibility. 
“We felt like we weren’t sure where we were taking money from to give class boards,” Griffin said. “The only way we could possibly make a difference would have to give you tens of thou­sands of more dollars.” 
Griffin also explained the need for the Capital Fund to help make improvements around campus, including renovating the student government offices and putting funds into Dalloway’s, the campus clubhouse. 
“Money from the Capital Fund would come into play,” Chesley said. “It is the leverage we need 
Worm 
continued from page 1 
ness. It can be used for fine suture materials, improved wound healing bandages and natural scaffolds for tendon and ligament repair or replacement, Fraser said. 
“Silk fibers have a whole host of applications in the bio­medical realm,” he said. 
Spider silk fibers can also have other, non-biomedical uses, to fix things on campus.” 
Money that could be used for an updated version of the Notre Dame co-exchange program was added to the budget. The pro­gram, which was cut at the beginning of the academic year, allowed 75 Saint Mary’s students per day to have a meal at Notre Dame’s dining halls at no addi­tional cost. 
Students have expressed con­cern over the cancellation of the program, which is now only available to students who need the tickets because they have classes or commitments at Notre Dame during meal times. 
Chesley said the addition of a budget for a new “social” co-exchange program doesn’t guar­antee a new program will be formed, but will allow the Board funds to move forward on the issue. 
“I think we could do it and this is going to give us the financial leverage we need to even consid­er the different options for co­exs,” Chesley said. 
Chesley said she and student body vice president Laura Smith have continued to work on the issue, and are working on exhausting their options. 
“The goal that we’re looking toward is getting some form of social co-ex tickets back to stu­dents, free of charge to stu­dents,” Chesley said. 
After discussions closed, the budget was put to a vote and was passed by majority vote, meaning the Board can now start giving funds to campus boards, clubs and organizations. 
“We now have a budget. We can move forward with the year,” Chesley said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
covered that the piggyBac transposon could be useful for genetic engineering of the silk­worm,” he said. “The possibil­ities for using this commercial protein production platform began to become apparent.” 
The genetically engineered silk protein produced by the transgenic silkworms is com­parable to the strength of nat­ural spider silk, Fraser said. 
“We’ve also made strides in improving the process of genetic engineering of these animals so that the develop­ment of addition­al transgenics is 

and could possi­ “With this  facilitated,”  he  
bly be used in b u l l e t p r o o f vests, strong  breakthrough, it is now possible to  said. “This will allow us to more rapidly assess the  
and lightweight structural fab­rics, improved a u t o m o b i l e  make spider silk in large quantities and make it  effectiveness of our gene manip­ulations in con­tinued develop- 
airbags and ath­letic clothing, a  commercially usable.”  ment of special­ized silk fibers.”  
University press release said.  Malcolm Fraser  Kraig Biocraft CEO Kim  
“With  this  professor of  Thompson, also  
breakthrough, it  biological sciences  at the press con- 

is now possible to make spider silk in large quantities and make it commercially usable,” Fraser said. 
Fraser used the powerful genetic engineering tool, piggyBac, to incorporate the DNA of spiders into genetically engineered silkworms. 
“Several years ago, we dis­ference, said his 
company was honored to be involved. 
“I believe this breakthrough establishes Notre Dame, Kraig Biocraft and University of Wyoming as world leaders,” Thompson said. 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 
STUDENT SENATE 
Senators discuss service initiatives 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Student Senate received an update on the accomplishments of last year’s Water Initiative and discussed this year’s stu­dent government service initia­tive. 
“Student government can work on issues of consequence and not just issues of conven­ience,” social concerns chair Pat McCormick said. 
Student government and the Center for Social Concerns teamed up last year to promote awareness and raise money for the Water Initiative, said Rachel Roseberry, former social con­cerns chair. 
“The idea was to provide clean water to people who do not have it,” she said. 
Roseberry and Justin Pham, a member of the social concerns committee last year, headed the committee inside student gov­ernment and worked with both groups throughout the project. 
Student government collected over $4,000 for the Yams Farm Primary School located in the rural western district of Sierra Leone, Africa, Pham said. 
The old pump on the site did not provide safe water for the community, so the funds went to installing a new hand pump that currently serves 550 people in the area, Pham said. 
The project also sponsored training for the students and teachers at the school on hygiene and health. This train­ing was a critical part of the ini­tiative because it taught mem­bers of the community about sanitation, Roseberry said. 
The initiative also helped the community in Sierra Leone remove dirt from the well interi-or and organize the community to better monitor the pump, Pham said. 

“We had so much help from so many organizations,” Roseberry said. “Howard Hall was especially great when they hosted ‘Totter for Water’ last year.” 
Other residence halls, the Office of Sustainability and stu­dent government worked together to make the initiative a success, Roseberry said. 
Student musicians also com­piled a benefit CD that was sold to help the project. 
“At some level we hope that a project like this would continue in student government,” Roseberry said. “Everyone in student government can find a way to look outside our little boardroom.” 
Student body president Catherine Soler and vice presi­dent Andrew Bell will head an initiative to fight hunger during their term. 
“Having one focused service initiative was unique last year and a great step for student government as a whole,” Bell said. “We are trying to continue that with the hunger initiative.” 
Student Senate also passed a resolution to thank the Office of Student Affairs for consulting student government during process of revising du Lac, the student handbook. 
“We want to recognize that the Office of Student Affairs included student government and thank them,” Soler said. “We also want to ask them to do that again in the future.” 
The conversation on the revi­sions is ongoing and will contin­ue to include student govern­ment, Bell said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


Thursday, September 30, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Page 5 
ND 88 
continued from page 1 
is seeking testimony from Kirk in order to ask questions about different treatment given to pro­testers involved in various protests on campus. 
The defense has argued that the ND 88 were subject to “viewpoint discrimination,” which the defense is claiming is a violation of the First Amendment, according to the release. ND 88 attorneys con­tend that the University did not file charges against protestors in past demonstrations. 
In a statement released in April, University President Fr. John Jenkins said NDSP gave the protesters several warnings to disperse, as the University has clear rules for campus 
Meals 
continued from page 1 
gies. 
“Eating is a part of the col­lege experience,” she said. “We want all the students to be able to participate.” 
Antonelli works one-on-one with students to teach them what is available in the dining halls for different food sensi­tivities and allergies. 
“We want students to have as close of an experience as other students have,” she said. 
Antonelli introduced Pryor to Chrissy Andrews, a 2010 grad­uate who founded Gluten-Free ND (GFND). 
“She took me out to lunch three days in a row and went through the whole dining hall menu and what I could eat at the Huddle and other places,” Pryor, now secretary of GFND, said. 
GFND meets weekly in Walsh Hall to discuss problems and solutions to eating on campus. The group sends e-mails to Antonelli about any concerns or ideas the group has and also sends e-mails to the Huddle with lists of gluten-free products to stock. 
“We are trying to get more fresh food on campus,” Pryor said. 
She said on-campus eateries are getting better at adapting to gluten-free foods, little by little. 
Other special food needs on demonstrations. 
“Some have incorrectly sug­gested that having the protes­tors arrested means we are hos­tile to the pro-life position. But, the University cannot have one set of rules for causes we oppose, and another more lenient set of rules for causes we support. We have one consistent set of rules for demonstrations on campus — no matter what the cause,” Jenkins said in the statement. 
The student handbook, du Lac, states that campus demon­strations must be peaceful, non-disruptive and registered in writing with the associate vice president of Residence Life — who was Kirk at the time. 
The Court will hear from Kirk on a date to be determined. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
campus include lactose intol­erance and religious require­ments. 
Amanda Bremer, a senior and resident assistant (RA) in McGlinn Hall, has learned to live with lactose intolerance, a sensitivity to milk and milk products. 
“At first I just couldn’t have ice cream. Then it was sour cream, then yogurt, then cheese,” she said. “This was slow, through the first half of the semester freshman year.” 
But Bremer said she didn’t turn to help from Food Services. 
“I made a list of what I couldn’t have through trial and error,” she said. 
Some times of the year are harder than others, Bremer said. 
“During Lent [is the hardest time],” she said. “To substitute protein, the dining hall puts cheese on everything. By the end you don’t have many choices.” 
Bremer said problems also arise with club events, includ­ing pizza or ice cream, or when the Huddle discontinued selling soy ice cream. Nevertheless, she has found creative ways to enjoy places on campus. 
“I don’t want to make a big deal out of it because there are worse allergies and intoler­ances,” she said. “[On-campus eateries] do have enough vari­ety that I can enjoy myself.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at 
agray3@nd.edu 
SMC holds leadership conference 
By BRITTANI HRADSKY 
News Writer 
The Center for Women’s Intercultural Leadership (CWIL) Conference will take place this weekend at Saint Mary’s College. 
“This year’s conference focus­es on the themes of leadership, women, intercultural studies and the intersection between them,” said Mana Derakhshani, a College faculty member help­ing to organize the conference. 
These ideas will be explored at the conference through vari­ous speakers, roundtable dis­cussions, panels and work­shops. 
The conference is hosted by 
Rally 
continued from page 1 
sally considered the best pep rally of the year, and even the last few years,” he said. 
The goal of the student-only pep rally is to increase student participation and show the football team just how strongly the student body supports them, student body president Catherine Soler said. 
“It’s a fun chance to get back to the basics, go crazy in the privacy of other students and celebrate the unique spirit of the ND student body,” Soler said. 
Bollman said the feedback from students was that pep rallies have become increas­ingly commercialized and alumni-oriented. Bollman hopes tonight’s student-only rally will show what it is like to remove the Center for Women’s Intercultural Studies and will start today and continue through Saturday. 
Beverly Tatum, president of Spellman College, a historically black college for women, will be the keynote speaker. She will give a presentation entitled “Educating Tomorrow’s Global Women Leaders” tonight at 7:30 
p.m. in the O’Laughlin Auditorium. 
Tatum has made a career out of women’s education, written several books and is an expert on race and identity, Derakhshani said. 
“She epitomizes in many ways the various themes of the con­ference”,” she said. 
Derakhshani emphasized how the CWIL Conference’s themes related to everyday life. 
“Some of the presenters and most of the participants are not professors or academia. They bring together theory and prac­tice,” she said. “The conference is a place to share ideas, to learn about innovative projects and theories or how people are dealing with these issues in research and practice.” 
She encouraged students to attend the conference. For more information, visit the CWIL web­site at http://www.centerfor­womeninleadership.org/researc h-and-scholarship/cwil-confer­ence-2010/schedule-a-glance. 
Contact Brittani Hradsky at bhrads01@saintmarys.edu 
those aspects and bring the focus back to the team and the students. 
“It’s students-only, so we are free to get as absolutely crazy 
as we want and  more fundamen­ 
it’s a little more  tal purpose of the  
uncensored. It will be like those crazy pep  “It’s a fun chance to get back to the  pep rally is quite simple — to cre­ate excitement  
rallies that peo­ basics ... and  about Saturday’s  
ple’s parents always talk about,” Bollman  celebrate the unique spirit of the ND  football game against Boston College and sup- 
said. Senior Colin  student body.”  port the football team.  
Fisher expects the move away from commer- Catherine Soler Student body president  “Student sup-port is the most important aspect  
cialism to be a  of Notre Dame  
positive one.  football and this  
“I think it  is our chance to  

“Why would you limit atten­dance? I say the more people the better,” he said. 
Though tonight’s pep rally will be student-focused, the 
might help to get more people excited if students feel like they are a bigger part of the rally,” he said. 
But freshman Andrew Streit wished more people were allowed to attend the rally. 
show it,” Bollman said. “The players will be entering right through the student body, giv­ing us a chance to really inter-
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 



The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Thursday, September 30, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
What should I choose? 

Every day, I’m torn in two differ­ent directions by two sides of cam­pus. I constantly switch between the suits, ties and professionalism of Mendoza and DeBartolo to the quirky, mysteri­ous personalities Matthew Robison of Haggar Hall. 
 ports
As a sophomore 

Production 
double-majoring 
Editor 

in psychology and business, I have two schools trying to prove to me that I will be happier and more successful pursuing their respective career tract. Each is also trying to convince me of its own nobility. 
I see the advantages to both. Following psychology, I could end up as an academic exploring the mysteries of the mind and human behavior in research, teach stu­dents about a subject that is inher­ently interesting, at least to me. Pursuing a career relating to my major in business, I have been promised internship opportunities, a high starting salary and the prospects of a long, lucrative career in the corporate world. 
This dichotomy of possible futures for me became evident when I started my application for studying abroad. One of the essays was to briefly describe my career plans. I then continued to list two plans that I have laid out for myself, two completely and totally different plans that will probably do nothing but confuse the application review­ers. 
Eventually, I will have to make a decision. Hopefully I will be able to find a career that allows me to uti­lize the skills I hone in both areas. But, I’ve come to the realization that this opportunity to defer some of the realities of life, for now, is what make these four years of our life so wonderful. The ability to decide to not decide is the beauty of college. I’m going to enjoy this time where I can explore two fields at different places on the academic spectrum. 
Coming to Notre Dame, I felt as if I had to make the decision between the two subjects which I found most interesting in high school, so I did. But, it became evident that I could delay my decision and actually decide to study both. 
At other schools I may not have been able to do so, and that simply adds to the beauty of this school. We are allowed to pursue whatever academic track we want. The abun­dance of majors, minors, certifi­cates and electives allows each stu­dent to control his or her own des­tiny. 
With all these opportunities comes a responsibility to fully engage oneself in whatever we feel passionate about. Whatever grasps your attention, pursue it deeply and fully. It is this school’s goal to make us diverse, well-rounded individu­als. So, don’t let Our Lady down. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
A safer world without guns 
On Tuesday morning, a 19-year-old sophomore math major opened fire on the campus of the University of Texas at Austin, sending the school into a paralyzing lockdown before ultimately taking his own life. 
While fortunately Ryan Williams no one else was injured in the ram-freethoughts page, the shooting is merely the latest episode in a dis­turbing escalation of gun violence on college campuses nationwide. 
What is far more disturbing, howev­er, is that the weapon of choice for Tuesday’s shooter was an AK-47 assault rifle. Now this is a weapon that has entered the popular lexicon due to its prominence in the arsenals of such benign groups as the Taliban, al-Qaeda, Hamas, various Columbian and Mexican drug cartels, and the Soviet Red Army. Its ruggedness, reli­ability and substantial firepower have made it a popular choice among ter­rorists and rebel organizations for much of the past 60 years. So how on earth did one of these incredibly deadly weapons fall into the hands of a college student at the University of Texas? 
The answer to that is actually quite simple, for the AK-47 assault rifle is legal and readily available in the state of Texas. In fact, anyone over the age of 18 can purchase one, so long as they have no felony record or history of domestic violence. Nor are these statutes unique to the Lone Star State, as numerous other states across the 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
country have similarly lax laws regarding the AK-47 and other auto­matic and semi-automatic weapons. 
The gunmen at Virginia Tech in 2007 and at Northern Illinois in 2008 both utilized these types of weapons in carrying out their brutal mas­sacres. And though it is clear that these guns contribute far more to pain and suffering than to the greater good, they still remain legal in this country. But why is this the case? Why can any ordinary 18-year-old walk into a pawnshop and purchase the exact same weapon that is being used by the Taliban to kill American sol­diers in Afghanistan? Why do Americans feel the need to purchase a gun whose only outstanding quality is that it can kill more people in a short­er period of time than a conventional non-automatic firearm? 
Gun rights advocates like to cite the Second Amendment in the United States Constitution as evidence in sup­port of their crusade against gun con­trol. The Amendment contains the line, “A well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed,” which has somehow been interpreted by these Americans as a ringing endorsement of their right to possess an assault weapon or a semi-automat­ic handgun. Leaving aside the fact that the words “well-regulated” are in the first line, it seems rather doubtful that the Founding Fathers had AK­47’s in mind when they sat down to pen the Constitution. 
Another argument put forth by gun rights supporters is that firearms are necessary to protect one’s home and family. While this argument has its merits, does anyone really think they need more than an ordinary, non-automatic rifle or handgun to defend their home? Seriously, unless the IRA or Hezbollah make frequent visits to your neighborhood, it seems highly unlikely that you would ever need to break out your trusty assault rifle. 
So please, let’s restore a little com­mon sense and sanity to government and get rid of these dangerous and deadly automatic and semi-automatic weapons. Let’s keep them out of our gun stores, off our streets and as far away as possible from our high schools and universities. America has seen more than its fair share of school shootings. It’s time to start taking some concrete steps to ensure that these horrifying tragedies never again take place, and denying would-be gunmen the weapons that only facili­tate their rampages is as good a place to start as any. Only then can we begin to realize President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s dream of an America that guaranteed “freedom from fear” to all its citizens. 
Ryan Williams is a sophomore. He can be reached at twilli15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“To find fulfillment ... don’t exist with life — embrace it.” 
Jim Beggs NASA Administrator 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Regret for the things we did canbe tempered by time; it is regret for the things we did not dothat is inconsolable.” 
Sidney J. HarrisAmerican Journalist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, September 30, 2010 page 7 
Sidewalk of Faith 
President and nature conservationist Theodore Roosevelt said, “A grove of giant redwoods or sequoias should be kept just as we keep a great or beauti­ful cathedral.” Through his efforts of preserving land and protecting wildlife, Meg Mirshak Roosevelt created for 
Faithpoint 
the American public and all its visitors a living sanctuary contained in our national forests. 
During a visit to the San Francisco area, my sister and I visited one of nature’s cathedrals. We took a late-morning walk through the giant red­wood trees of California’s Muir Woods National Park. This towering grove of trees has for more than a century reminded people of the long, vertical architectural lines of cathedrals that point upward towards God in heaven. 
I walked through the cool, damp and hushed nature preserve, like many people before me, with a sense of rev­erence. The great redwoods surround­ed me like fortressed walls and their branches formed a vaulted ceiling over my head. It was here that I offered a prayer of gratitude to God our creator, maker of our places and our days. 
Although the oak, sycamore and pine trees on God Quad and across campus do not stand nearly as tall, they can beckon us to a similar expe­rience of prayer. Just as we keep the beautiful Basilica a place of sacred silence and pristine, golden beauty, so should we keep the ground we walk on daily. 
How do you imagine the sidewalks, green quads and lake paths of our campus? Are they simply a place that you rush across to get to class? Perhaps, you cut corners on your bike to save an extra minute, or the mile-long lake paths fit nicely into your exercise routine. 
Until recently, and especially after my visit to the cathedral grove of Muir Woods, the sidewalks on campus meant no more than a way to get to class, meetings, the dining hall and the stadium. Now, I am reminded that they can take us on a pilgrimage. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Challenge to the Notre Dame Alumni 
Dear Notre Dame Alumni,  percentage over the last four years,  
On behalf of my fellow students, I  I’m looking at 65,000 Notre Dame  
would like to begin by saying we  alumni and fans sitting down on 3rd­ 
appreciate your concern. Notre Dame  and-three. Tucked away in our corner,  
is unique because of the continuing  we can only do so much. And the  
care and involvement of its graduates,  University hasn’t exactly been promot­ 
and you are certainly involved this  ing a rowdy and raucous stadium,  
football season by expressing your  either. Between the gross overproduc­ 
dismay at our perceived lack of spirit  tion of pep rallies, egotripping ushers  
during home games. But, seriously,  who love to throw out Notre Dame  
and I say this with all due respect:  students but refuse to act on a group  
chill.  of Purdue students in the student sec- 
As a senior, I know my days of stu­ tion (true story), and the extreme  
dent section games are numbered  prejudice of excise police intent on  
(and I was also hoping I’d never write  spoiling the good time of anyone with  
to The Observer again. Oh, well). As a  a beer, I’d say it’s less the student sec- 
loyal fan who doesn’t appreciate foot­ tion and more the system under which  
ball as much while intoxicated, I can  we try to cheer on our team. The pro- 
understand your dismay at our appar­ motion of a “family experience” sub­ 
ent lack of cohesion and fighting spir­ verts any and all attempts to shake  
it. But as a senior and loyal fan, I  down thunderlike objects. I’m glad  
know that soon, my time will be over,  parents bring their four-year-old kids,  
and someone else will be allowed a  and octogenarians manage to last four  
seat in that stadium. It will be some- quarters on seats not fit for a  
one else’s turn, and I will willingly go  Michigan fan. But does that create an  
on and allow others to experience  intimidating atmosphere? Not exactly.  
such a great tradition as Notre Dame  Is that our fault? Not exactly.  
football.  So go ahead and wish and reminisce  
Now, about that tradition. My class  about the days of Zorich and Bettis  
will almost assuredly graduate as the  and Montana. I was born eight months  
‘losingest’ class in Notre Dame history  after Notre Dame’s last national  
(which, to be honest, I kind of hope we  championship. I have done everything  
do; it would really stink to lose at los­ in my power to support my team the  
ing). Like a fellow senior said recently,  last four years. Most of the time, my  
we’ve seen no wins against USC, one  Saturday evenings have been spent  
against Michigan, and none at home  making up stories about “If only we’d  
against Navy. We’ve scheduled such  passed more on second down,” or  
“storied programs” as San Diego  “Well, aside from those three touch- 
State, Syracuse, Washington State,  downs, our defense played pretty  
Western Michigan and Tulsa. The best  well.” Let’s be real: Notre Dame isn’t  
record we’ve seen so far is 7-6, and  special because of football games.  
we were grateful for it. I’m from Ohio,  Football games are special because of  
and a loyal Bengals, Reds and  Notre Dame. So please stop giving us  
Cavaliers fan, so I know how to handle  finger-wagging lectures about how  
such disappointment; but after four  back in your day, the entire opposing  
long years, it’s a pretty heavy load to  team knew how you felt about their  
bear.  mothers. You had your time; now it’s  
I agree with you, I do. I wish our  ours. Soon, it won’t be mine anymore,  
stadium could be so loud the opposing  either. And I will go gracefully into  
quarterback can’t hear himself think.  that goodnight, hoping that I don’t  
I wish our student section could cre­ lose that $1,000 bet I made that Notre  
ate an atmosphere so imposing that  Dame will win a national champi­ 
teams shake when they run out the  onship by 2050. BK, I’m looking at  
tunnel. But there are 80,795 seats in  you.  
that stadium, and last I checked, stu- Kyle Tennant  
dent tickets comprise 10,795 of them.  senior  
While you’re looking at a despondent  Stanford Hall  
student section with a .425 winning  Sept. 29  

We journey to a place of great signif­icance everyday on this campus, and we do not travel alone. Our stories gain more meaning from the people we bump into along the busy side­walks. Like intersections in the path­ways, our lives cross and we meet the Christ in one another. 
You may not be visiting the Basilica or making a pilgrimage to Europe’s majestic cathedrals, but you are nev­ertheless walking an extra step in your journey. Remember the conversa­tion you had on South Quad or the cof­fee you shared on a bench underneath the Dome. These encounters help us know the presence of a loving God. 
If we stretch our minds, we can treat each day as a mini-pilgrimage. The sidewalks can carry you to holy sites and spiritual centers on campus. Visit the Holy Family statue on Bond Quad and reflect on relationships with your parents or your dorm community. When you pass by O’Shaughnessy Hall, recount Jesus’ meeting with the Woman at the Well and the desires he has for you. 
We do not have to fly to California’s redwood forests to find nature’s sanc­tuary. As students, professors, rectors and staff members, we are blessed to go somewhere each day on our cam­pus. With each step towards your des­tination, Christ draws near to us in people and places. 
As the leaves change into their bril­liant fall hues, find a bench on God Quad or walk down Notre Dame Avenue where you can look up high through the trees. Imagine the color­ful leaves as stained glass windows in a grand cathedral and recall the peo­ple you met on today’s journey. Where did you go today and where is God taking you? With reverence and thanksgiving, preserve for yourself a space of sacred silence. 
This week’s Faithpoint is written by Meg Mirshak, intern in the Office of Campus Ministry. She can be reached at mmirshak@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
‘Cast Out the Beam Out of Thine Own Eye’ 

To Mr. VanDerhoef ‘87 (“Homefield Advantage, R.I.P.”, Sept. 29) and Mr. Kelley ‘64 (“Challenge to the Notre Dame student body”, Sept. 29), 
You doubt our passion, our energy and our commitment to our team, whether it be in the student section during the games, or at the various pep rallies. You have no right. You have no idea what we have gone through these past years, especially the senior class. I have heard that as of this past lost to Stanford, the senior class has now seen the losingest four years of Notre Dame Football. Ever. I find it ironic that you say we have lost our edge, but to me it seems quite easy to support teams such as Mr. VanDerhoef had in 1987, just a year removed from the ‘88 title, or Mr. Kelley in the begin­ning of the Era of Ara. What we have now is an offense that is inconsistent, careless with the football, and a defense that is tentative, slow and gets excited after stopping a run for only five yards. But they are showing progress. We’re going to stand behind our team, but they have to stand up for us. And right now they’re trying, and so are we. 
I can name many reasons why Notre Dame Stadium is not a place to be feared, but the student body won’t be found any­where on that list. We cheer on every down, but it seems to take a miracle to even get the rest of the alumni and fans on their feet. With a fan base that refuses to get excited about their team when it counts most, it is no surprise that our sta­dium is not respected. So, if you want us to step up our game, you need to step up yours first. And if you noticed last week, at least the student section didn’t leave the game during the fourth quarter. I wish I could say the same for all of the other fans. 
Finally, you mention that “every stu­dent attending Notre Dame has an obli­gation to uphold some of the legacies of the past students.” The identity of Notre Dame is not as stagnant. It is defined and redefined every year based upon the identity of the student body. The University is not the same as it was when you went here, and will soon be different for me after I graduate. Sure, there are things that are distinctly “Notre Dame” that all can relate to, but the student body is not one of these things. We have our own identity; don’t try to force yours upon us. 
Josh Foster 
junior Fisher Hall Sept. 29 
The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Thursday, September 30, 2010 

By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 

For those able to make it to the Papa Roach/Trapt concert at Club Fever this Wednesday who liked what they heard, and for those of you who could not make it but are fans of Papa Roach or Trapt, both have new albums recently released 
“Time for Annihilation ... On the Record and on the Road” Papa Roach 
Label: Eleven Seven Music Best Tracks: “Burn,” “No Matter What” 

or soon to be released. 

Papa Roach’s new album “Time for Annihilation… On the Record and on the Road,” was released August 31 under the Eleven Seven Music label, produced by David Bendeth. The band consists of Jacoby Shaddix (lead vocals), Jerry Horton (lead guitar, backing vocals), Tobin Esperance (bass guitar, backing vocals) and Tony Palermo (drums, percussion, backing vocals). Including five new tracks as well nine live tracks from 2009 tour, this album mixes Papa Roach’s slightly varied genres of hard rock, alternative rock, alternative metal and nu metal. 
Those who aren’t particular fans of screaming metal rock or only knowing Papa Roach’s more mainstream rock sin­gles “Scars” and “Last Resort” might be hesitant about the new album — especial­ly because only five of the songs were new studio tracks. Even listeners who aren’t particularly fans of live renditions because the songs are too varied from the beloved originals, or worse, not musically up to par with studio versions, might honestly not expect to like Papa Roach’s new album. 
Prepare to be extremely surprised. The first five tracks had intriguing and original electro-rock sounds throughout the songs and, though the melodies might at first seem predictable and repetitive, they often prove that theory wrong at some point in the track. Fans of Papa Roach’s harder rock will most likely enjoy the new tracks: “Burn,” “One Track Mind,” “Kick in the Teeth” and “Enemy” all sound as expected. “No Matter What” is the excep­tion as a mellower, slower song with a focus on lyrics and vocals. They don’t abandon the rock genre entirely, though, proving Papa Roach’s versatility in song writing lyrically, musically and performing within a genre. 
Even more impressive than the studio album tracks were the live tracks from their tours. Their live performance is as good as, if not better, than their studio recordings. Both the music and the vocals were dead-on and could easily fool the lis­tener into thinking they were listening to a studio recording. The band as a whole performs flawlessly live, and Shaddix’s vocal performance proves he does in fact have an incredible, enduring voice behind some of the band’s gruffer, louder music. 
In addition to being excellent recordings from a listening perspective, Papa Roach took the live aspect a step further by bringing personality, reality and wit to their live performances. Shaddix’s com­munication with the crowd is clever, humorous and what could be expected out of a hard rocker lead. He pumps up the crowd, using the off-color language somewhat frequently and occasional smart-aleck commentary. At the same time, Shaddix co-wrote all of the songs on the album with fellow band members, producers and others, so he brings the very personal aspect of song-writing and performing creative work before millions (as well as a special message to the listen­er in the last 39 seconds of “Last Resort”). 
Overall, “Time for Annihilation” is a wise purchase for fans of Papa Roach and of hard rock alike. The new music — as well as the live versions of favorites like “Scars,” “Last Resort” and “Getting Away with Murder” — prove the band is a truly talented ensemble of song writers and musicians with charismatic personality and individuality. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Thursday, September 30, 2010 page 9 
Bowling Night Strikes and Spares 5419 Grape Road 8-11 p.m. Free bowling, food and drinks 
No plans Thursday night? Spend your evening knock ­ing down some pins at the Strikes and Spares Entertainment Center in Mishawaka . From 8 to 11 
p.m., bowling and refresh ­ments will be free. Need a ride? Transportation will be leaving Main Circle at 7:45 
p.m. This fun -filled event is sponsored by Notre Dame ’s Marketing Club. 
Dueling Pianos Legends10 p.m.Free with ND/SMC/HCC ID 
Two talented dueling pianists will be visiting Legends this Friday night at 10 p.m. to play all the hits, everything from “American Pie ” to “Paparazzi .” The pianists will take requests too, so be sure to enjoy a fun and interactive night of music. The event is free with an ND, SMC or HCC ID . The seats will fill up quickly, so get there early! 
Grassroot Soccer Lose the Shoes ND Tournament South Quad 1 p.m.Teams of 3-5 people with a $10 entry donation per person 
Kick off your Saturday by playing or watching the sec­
ond 
annual Lose the Shoes ND tournament on South Quad. Grassroot Soccer is an organization committed to using the power of soccer to fight HIV and AIDS. All par­ticipants play barefoot in respect of the game’s African 

origins 
and remembrance of the organization’s mission. 


Radio Drama: “The Cask of Amontillado” 140 DeBartolo Hall 6 p.m.Free 
88.9 WSND -FM presents a performance of Edgar Allan Poe ’s “The Cask of Amontillado” in the style of an old -time radio drama . The performance is free, and a recording of the per ­formance will be broadcast-ed by 88 .9 WSND -FM on October 10 and 24 at 5:30 
p.m. Anyone with an inter ­est in radio dramas, Edgar Allan Poe or scary stories is encouraged to attend! 


LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 30, 2010 
NFL 

Texans search for solutions to protect Schaub 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON — David Carr was sacked an NFL record 76 times in 2002, the Houston Texans inaugural season. Three years later, he went down behind the line 68 times, third-most in league history. 
The Texans would love to put that issue to rest — and they have made significant upgrades in virtually every area since Carr was cut in 2007 — but protecting the quarterback is unfortunately back in the conversation. 
Matt Schaub has been sacked 11 times in three games, tied with Philadelphia’s Michael Vick for the most this season. Only the Eagles have allowed more sacks than Houston (14), and Vick became the starter after Kevin Kolb left the first game with a con­cussion. 
“We’ve got 11 sacks, way too damn many,” Texans coach Gary Kubiak said. “I don’t care whose fault it is — mine, Matt’s, the O-line. We’ve got to fix it. We’ve got way too many.” 
The Texans (2-1) play at Oakland (1-2) this week. The Raiders rank second in total defense (260.7 yards per game) and have seven sacks in their first three games. 
Kubiak doesn’t have a Vick as his No. 2 quarterback. He’s got Dan Orlovsky as the back­up, but he may need to go to him if Schaub keeps getting hit like this. 
He was sacked five times in the Texans 30-27 win over Washington two weeks ago, and took another hard shot after throwing a fourth-quar­ter touchdown pass to Andre Johnson. Schaub was sacked four more times in Sunday’s 27-13 loss to Dallas, three times by DeMarcus Ware. Keith Brooking had the other one, charging in unblocked to hammer Schaub on a third-down play from the Cowboys’ 3-yard line. 
“It’s frustrating as an offen­sive line,” center Chris Myers said. “You take pride in not having that many sacks, and when you’re close to last in the league in giving up sacks, it’s really embarrassing. We’ve got to take it upon ourselves, take pride in that and get better.” 
The offensive front faced Dallas without starting left tackle Duane Brown, who was suspended four games for vio­lating the league’s policy on banned substances. Five-year veteran Rashad Butler made his first career start in Brown’s place, and let Ware get by him on one of the sacks. 
Right tackle Eric Winston isn’t making excuses. No mat­ter who is starting, Winston said the line needs to hold up. 
“It doesn’t matter if he holds it for 15 seconds back there if he wants,” Winston said. “We have to stay on them and somehow get them blocked and that’s just what we’re going to keep doing.” 
Kubiak said the entire offense, not just the line, shares blame for the protec­tion breakdowns. Schaub said he’s at fault for some of them, holding onto the ball longer than the blocking could last. 
“There’s a few times where I could’ve thrown the ball away or gotten rid of it, just trying to extend plays,” Schaub said. “We’re getting it right, we’re going to be fine. It’s not a big deal. We’re going to get it right.” 
Schaub was only sacked twice in Houston’s opening win against Indianapolis. But he only attempted 17 passes because the Texans ran so effectively, rushing 42 times for 257 yards. 
Schaub has thrown 84 pass­es in two games since, and Johnson said Houston’s receivers must take pressure off Schaub by running sharper routes. 
“We just have to try to work ourselves open a little but more quickly than we’ve been doing,” Johnson said. “You definitely don’t like to see him get hit. It pretty much takes a toll on the body.” 
Schaub can attest to that. He missed five games in 2007 with a shoulder injury and concussion, and four more in 2008 with a knee injury. Schaub started all 16 games last season, and the Texans finished with the NFL’s top passing offense (291 yards per game). 

NFL 

Smith downplays comments to Clausen after blowout loss 
Associated Press  “It was said that I was just about to ‘go off’ and I wasn’t,”  what he thought of Clausen’s performance in his first NFL  i t ’s h a r d t o ha ve p os i t iv e s because you didn’t do a good  six-game winning streak in New Orleans snapped last sea- 
C HA R L OT T E,  N . C.  — Smith said after Wednesday’s  start, Smith said he did “as  enough job to have positives.  son, Smith believes there’s  a  
Panthers wide receiver Steve  practice. “I thought it  was  well as he could with the cur- But I think he did very good  lesson to be learned from that  
S m ith  tr i e d  to  di f fu s e  a n y  interesting because here, I  rent situation.”  a nd  h e  lea rn e d  a  l ot  o f  game.  
potential controversy between  was  obviously agitated and  It’s  no  secret the Panthers  things.”  The Panthers jumped out to  
he and rookie quarterback  f r us t r a t e d ,  b u t  so me t i m es  are  struggling  on  offense  —  Clausen reiterated he wants  a  14-0 lead, then seemed to  
Jimmy Clausen on Wednesday.  people think they know  me  not just in the passing game,  to get the ball to Smith, but it  take their foot off the gas and  
Smith, a four-time Pro Bowl  better than I know myself. I  but running the ball as well  —  would be  a  mistake to force  wound up losing to the high- 
player, said his sideline  com- think that’s a joke and I think  e v e r  si n c e  th e  pr es e as o n  the ball into his star receiver,  powered Saints 30-20.  
ments to Clausen in Carolina’s  the people that reported it are  began.  especially if he’s constantly  “You get  some  points early,  
20-7 loss  to  the Cincinnati  jokes.”  A fter  fa i lin g  t o  s c or e  a n  double covered as he’s been.  you can’t shut it down  — bot- 
Bengals on Sunday have been  Clausen, who will make his  offensive touchdown in four  “ I  c an ’t  fo r c e  a n y t h i ng ,”  tom line,” Smith said. “If you  
overblown by the media.  second NFL start Sunday at  e x hi bi t i on  g a me s,  t h e  Clausen said. “I tried to force  get up 14 of 17 points and  
Television  cameras  caught  Ne w  Or l e an s ,  do wn p l ay e d  Panthers haven’t gotten much  that one into him (on Sunday)  then you don’t do anything  
S m ith  w alk i ng  o v er  t o  there being tension between  better in the regular  season  and it got intercepted. And  after that  — especially against  
Clausen, who was talking with  he and Smith.  with only three touchdowns so  th at i s w h a t y o u get  m o re  an  explosive offense like that  
a n  a ss i s t a nt  co ach  on  t h e  “There really wasn’t any- far in three losses.  times than making  a  comple­ — t hey ’ r e  n o t  g o i ng  t o  s i t  
bench, and screaming at the  thing between me and Steve,”  They rank 31st on offense in  tion. I have to be smart.  a r ou nd  an d  twi d dl e  th e i r  
rookie.  Clausen said. “Like I told you  total yar ds and  ar e  last in  “Steve is a great player and  thumbs. The y  are  g o ing  t o  
S mith  wa l ked  a w ay,  b ut  after the game it’s just his  scoring.  I want to get the ball to him as  draw up plays in the dirt and  
returned and said something  competitiveness  as  a  football  “I think Jimmy, like every- m a n y  t i mes  a s  I  c an  bu t  I  do whatever they can to come  
else bef o r e be ing escort ed  player. He wants the ball. I  body else, would like to take  can’t force it because it causes  back. So when you get up 14  
away by tight end Jeff King.  think it’s a good thing for your  s om e  t hr o w s  ba ck ,  (a n d  turnovers and interceptions.”  or 17 or even three points and  
At tha t point,  a  f r u s t r at ed  receivers to want the ball  as  change)  some  decision mak- At 0-3, the Panthers face  a  try to sit  on  it and hope for  
Smith threw down his cup of  much as they can get it.”  ing,” Smith said. “Myself, I  tough road back.  t he  best ,  i t ’s  n ot  g o i ng  to  
Gatorade.  W hen  a s k ed  We d nes d ay  feel the  same  way. In  a  loss  While the Panthers had their  work.”  

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
NOW RENTING 2011-12 4BD/2BA  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  Tobias- Even if it means me taking  Tobias- I prematurely shot my wad  
FOR RENT  HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBOR­HOODS 574-876-6333  Don't go it alone.  WANTED  a chubby, I will suck it up. ———————————————  on what was supposed to be a dry run, so now I’m afraid I have some- 
Notre Dame has many resources in  Michael- Heard you’re selling the  thing of a mess on my hands.  
Spacious Upper-Level Apartment Near Airport, on Busline 1 Bdr.  PERSONAL  place to assist you.  Earn $1000-$3200 a month to drive our brand new cars with ads placed  yacht.  Michael- There’s just so many poor­ 
$550,  If you or someone you love needs  on them.  Gob- Yeah I had a couple there this  ly chosen words in that sentence.  
All Util Included  If you or someone you care about  confidential support or assistance,  morning. They got the “Asian” right.  ———————————————  
Call Mike 574-250-0191  has been sexually assaulted, we  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  “Hotties” might be a stretch.  Gob- Anyway, it involves us making  
———————————————  can help.  or Ann Firth at 1-2685.  www.AdCarDriver.com  ———————————————  some money with our Mexican  
AVAILABLE NOW 4BD/2BA HOME  ———————————————  Gob- Look I don’t want you thinking  friends in Columbia.  
FOR RENT.  For more information, visit Notre  For more information, visit ND's  Michael- And you’re getting rid of  your uncle is somoe sleazy charac- Michael- I think they’re called  
1.5 miles from ND  Dame's website:  website at:  the Seaward.  ter from the docks.  Columbians.  
Lucille- I’ll leave when I’m good and  She’s an Olympian...hopeful.  Gob- Oh I forgot, we’re being politi­ 
574-876-6333  http://csap.nd.edu.  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu.  ready.  Swimming...some coaching.  cally correct now.  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Thursday, September 30, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
NBA 

Van Gundy seeks to gel with new Magic team 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. — Stan Van Gundy took a few extra trips this summer. 
They weren’t vacations to exotic destinations with five-star accommodations. The Orlando Magic coach just wanted to improve communi­cation with players, so he traveled to some of their hometowns — and in typical Van Gundy fashion. 
On one occasion this sum­mer, Van Gundy flew to Atlanta to have lunch with Dwight Howard. No car serv­ice after landing for Van Gundy; he took the MARTA, Atlanta’s metrorail. 
“I don’t think I’ve rode the train since I was in middle school,” Howard said. “For him to get on the train is like crazy. He said people were bothering him and asking questions about the Magic. It’s crazy. But he really wants to be a part of us.” 
It ’s all tied into Van Gundy’s biggest goal this sea­son: Improving communica­tion with players. 
Maybe it’s hard to believe considering he’s an eccen­tric, never-afraid-to-say-any­thing coach, the kind who traded verbal jabs this sum­mer with Miami Heat presi­dent and former boss Pat Riley. 
But Van Gundy recognized sometimes his in-your-face style bothers players. 
The best way he knew to connect was to show players that the messenger cared not just about their games, but the players and their fami­lies. 
So Van Gundy also flew to Paris to spend time with small forward Mickael Pietrus, and not to see the Eiffel Tower or cruise down the River Seine. No, Van Gundy took an overnight flight to France, spent about half the day on the ground with Pietrus and then flew back home across the Atlantic the next morning. 
“That’s dedication,” Pietrus said. 
Oh, the coach wasn’t done. 
During some offseason con­dition workouts, Van Gundy decided to lace em’ up and run sprints with other play­ers who were in Orlando. The exercise drew mostly laughs — “more like sprits,” Howard jokes — but it was appreciated by players. 
“You should have seen me run, ” Van Gundy said. “I don ’t think you call those sprints. I don’t know what it was, but that was far from sprints. That was a 51-year­old, overweight sprint.” 
Van Gundy will also be sporting some new looks this season — one by choice, another by mandate. 
Both of his creation. 
Slightly slimmer and more physically fit, Van Gundy is exercising on the elliptical machine and lifting weights. He’s also trying to eat better, he said, and is scheduled to have another checkup in two weeks to find out exactly how much weight he’s lost. 
“It would be almost physi­cally impossible for it to go up,” he said, chuckling. 
And those trademark turtleneck shirts complete with the same few sport coats on the sideline are gone. New NBA rules require coaches to wear collared shirts during games. 
In an appreciative gesture, Magic CEO Bob Vander Weide 
— after extending Van Gundy ’s contract through 2013 — even had tailors fit the coach and some front-office members with suits. So, yes, a fully suited Van Gundy is coming to NBA side­lines. 
Maybe even sometimes with a tie. 
“I want them to at least name the rule after me,” Van Gundy said. “Somebody has their Bird rights. Larry Bird got that rule named after him. I want it to be the Van Gundy Rule.” 
Consider it the next step in Van Gundy ’s coaching makeover. 
It was early last season, after all, when some players asked him to tone down the negative comments. Van Gundy complied — at least for a little — and has since stressed the importance of communication. 
No matter how he’s done it, Van Gundy’s way wins. 
In three years in Orlando, he has led the Magic to the Southeast Division title each season. They made the NBA finals in 2009 and were bounced by Boston in the Eastern Conference finals last season. 
Only now, players say, Van Gundy has become more receptive to change and com­munication has never been better. 
“He’s reaching out to us a lot more on text messages, just phone calls and asking about our personal life and getting to know us better. I guess he’s starting to open up a little bit,” Magic point guard Jameer Nelson said. 
“People just have this mis-conception of him because don’t take that as a knock. he’s really animated on the But sometimes people who sideline. Me, personally, I don’t understand him might.” 



page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 30, 2010 
NBA 

Questions, hope surround James 
Associated Press 
HURLBURT FIELD, Fla. — There’s going to be a spot­light on the Miami Heat all season. 
And a shadow. A long shad­ow. 
Such is life when three players who are used to hav­ing just about every move­ment tracked decide they all want to be part of the same team. LeBron James has had all eyes on him since he was a high schooler. Dwyane Wade has been the story in Miami for years. Chris Bosh 
w a s  o n c e  t h e  f a c e  o f  
Toronto’s franchise.  
T h e  H e a t  s p o t l i g h t ,  i t ’s  
theirs to share.  

The 17 other players the Heat have in training camp, well, they’re getting front-row seats to a three-star cir­cus. 
“I’d love to be one of those ‘other’ guys, as you would the stage that night, and even the names atop the Miami masthead — owner Micky Arison, president Pat Riley, and Spoelstra — merely took seats in the crowd. 
“Everybody always men ­tions me and C.B. and D-Wade,” James said. “So, the rest of the guys can fly under the radar and just be great for this team, which we know they can be.” 
The spotlight issue has mul­tiple prongs, one being how the rest of the team will han­dle it, another being how Wade, James and Bosh will share it. 
On the first front, time will tell. 
On the second, the trio — the Heatles, some dubbed them after the new contracts were done — insist it’ll be easy. 
“No question, it will,” Wade said. “I think that we’re all 
going to enjoy 
that. As much as 

s a y, ”  H e a t  “We can focus on  people think  we  
c o a c h E r i k Spoelstra said during a break  basketball, on getting better, on making the  can’t deal with it, this guy get-t i n g a t t e n t i o n ,  
b e t w e e n  t w o  team.”  this guy getting  
W e d n e s d a y  a t t e n t i o n ,  I ’ m  
p r a c t i c e s . “They can just do their busi- Kenny Hasbrouck Heat guard  n o t i n t o t h a t . I’m into a differ­ent phase of my  


ness and not have to deal with all these microphones. That’d be great, wouldn’t it?” 
Few, if anyone, on the Heat bus would argue. 
“A lot of times, other guys, they just get to show up and go to work and not have to deal with as many distrac­tions because of lot of atten­tion is going to be on these guys,” Heat center Zydrunas Ilgauskas said. “You’re going to be left by yourself a lot of times, which is perfect. You can just do your job. I’m OK with that. More than OK with that.” 
Ilgauskas might know bet­ter than anyone what the Heat will have to endure over the coming months. He was James’ teammate in Cleveland for the past seven years, seeing the long-touted phenom arrive fresh out of a nearby high school and develop into what he is now, a two -time reigning NBA MVP. 
Then there ’s guys like Kenny Hasbrouck, a guard who joined the Heat late last season as a developmental player and is merely fighting for a job. 
He’s never seen this before. Nothing even close. 
“It’s definitely easier for us,” Hasbrouck said, 50 feet away from where Wade was holding court with swarms of reporters standing three ­deep around him. “We can focus on basketball, on get­ting better, on making the team.” 
At the very moment Wade, James and Bosh came out for that first celebration party at the arena the Heat call home on July 9, the obvious was underscored. 
They are going to be the newsmakers, the leaders, the go-to guys. 
No other Heat player took life. I’m not 21, 22 no more. I’m 
28. I’m going into my 30s. So I understand that, you know what, take some pressure off me. Go ahead. I don’t really mind.” 
This isn’t a deal where it’s three good players and a bunch of never-heard-ofs in Miami, either. 
Yes, Wade, James and Bosh crafted the biggest story in the NBA this summer, and — due respect to five -time champion Kobe Bryant — James might be the league’s biggest icon these days. 
But there’s also no shortage of accomplished NBA players on this roster, players like Eddie House, Mike Miller, Juwan Howard, Udonis Haslem and Ilgauskas. 
“The draw to come back here was having the opportu­nity to do something special,” said House, who was with the Heat from 2000 through 2003 before returning this sum­mer. “I think that ’s what everybody strives for, what everybody wants to do, be a part of something special, do something special, and we definitely have a chance to do that. It was kind of a no ­brainer.” 
There’s no ‘what-about-us’ illusions going on amid the Heat players not named James, Wade or Bosh. 
In fact, it sort of goes the other way. 
More of a ‘leave -them ­alone’ sense, House said. 
“Having to deal with what they have to deal with, I think it probably would bother me a little bit,” House said. “But at the same time, they’re pro­fessionals and they deserve all the attention that they’re getting. Nobody’s worried if our job is easier because all the attention is over there. Our job is just as hard. We’re between the lines, banging.” 


Thursday, September 30, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
CLUB SPORTS 

Frisbeeteamtohost regional tourney 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame Ultimate Frisbee Team will host the 15th annual Whitesmoke Tournament this weekend in South Bend. Whitesmoke, which traditionally has been held in the spring season, will be the opening event for the team this year. 
The men’s team will split into two competing squads for the event: Notre X and Notre Dame Grinnell College, Valparaiso, Illinois State and Purdue 
Y.  Co-captain  Michael  
DellaPenna  said  the  split  
squads  are  not  
divided by talent,  

In total, 24 men’s teams from across the region will travel to South Bend for the tourna­ment. 
On Sunday, a championship bracket will be formed from the results of the Saturday group play. Reaching the cham­pionship is not necessarily the team’s goal, according to DellaPenna. 
“The competitive portion of the Ultimate season is mainly in the spring, so we will be using this event to gauge some new players; introduce them to the sport and to competitive 

but rather evenly p l a y , ” 
“Our main goal for
divided with a Dell aPenna hope of getting the tournament is to said. “If both as much playing get some experience squads go .500 time for the play-for the week-
for the team.” 
ers. end, that would “Our main goal be a success.” for the tourna-Michael DellaPanna Notre Dame ment is get some Team co-captain will also have a 
experience for the team,” DellaPenna said. “Throughout the weekend we will be able to get some of the new guys out there and see what they are made of.” 
Saturday will consist of group play, where each squad will compete against the other teams in their particular pool. 
Notre Dame X will play a group consisting of Michigan State, Eastern Illinois, Hope College, Case Western and Northwestern while Notre Dame Y will take on Illinois, women’s team 
represented at 
Whitesmoke. They will play Case Western, Illinois, Truman State and Michigan State. A total of 16 women’s teams will compete in the event. 
The men’s tournament will be held at Boehme Park in South Bend, located close to campus on Edison Road. The women’s event will be played on the Saint Mary’s College campus. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 
Belles fall to Olivet in tournament 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
The Belles finished second to host Olivet for the second time this season in the third MIAA Jamboree at The Medalist Golf Club Wednesday. 
The No. 5 Belles shot a com­bined score of 343 in the round. 
Belles coach Mark Hamilton credits the close loss to mis­takes that shorted them the two strokes to first place. 
“We made some poor deci­sions on the golf course today,” 
Honderd 
continued from page 16 
Honderd 36 seconds later. 
Calvin continued their domi­nance in the second half when Honderd scored again in the 45th minute on a pass from Schnabel. The duo teamed up for each of the Knights’ three goals. 
The Knights have given up only one goal so far this sea­son, and Joyce knew the team 
Belles 
continued from page 16 
Despite Saint Mary’s lack of offensive game, Freshman Hailee Leitz’s performance against the thunder was a positive the Belles took away Hamilton said. 
Despite those mistakes, the Belles managed to finish in sec­ond place. Senior Mary Kate Boyce led the Belles with a final score of an 80 for a second place overall finish. Saint Mary’s freshman Marin Beagley finished second for the Belles, shooting an 82 on the after­noon for fourth place overall. 
Freshman Doyle O’Brien fin­ished third for the Belles with 88, followed by senior Rosie O’Connor with 93. 
Freshman Hayley Miller, sophomore Jessica Kinnick and junior Meagan Ryan each 
was in for a tough game against the ranked Knights. 
Sophomore goalkeeper Caitlin Walsh finished with eight saves for the Belles (2-9, 0-1-0 MIAA), and junior Kristen Nelson added three more. The Belles, though, struggled offensively with two shots, both from freshman Ellie Jacques, and only one on goal. 
“Our top player of the day was probably [junior defender] Keely Noonan, she was solid defensively for us,” Joyce said. 
The Knights finished with 27 
from the match. She led her team with a .656 assist per­centage and 21 assists for the game. 
“Our hitters found a lot more confidence in freshman setter Hailee Leitz tonight and will be looking to build on that tomorrow at practice,” Kuschel said. “She does a great job distributing the ball tonight. It was the best I have seen her play so far this year.” 
Other contributors included Sophomore Stephanie Bodien who led the team with eight kills and Senior Meghann Rose with a match-high 12 digs. 
“We will be looking for our vocal leadership to continue to improve as well as our hitting 
Contact Katharine Mack at kmack@nd.edu 
played as individual entrants. 
Olivet’s Amber Conrad cap­tured the top medalist honors as she shot the only score below 80 with a 79. 
The Belles hope to step up their game to get back to first place. 
“Hopefully today will be our low point,” Hamilton said. “We expect to bounce back strong.” 
Saint Mary’s will compete next Saturday in the fourth MIAA Jamboree hosted by Adrian. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 
shots, and 14 on net. 
“We played pretty much how we wanted to against them. We didn’t give up any easy chances and took advantage of opportunities,” Joyce said. “Everything would have had to go right to pull off the win, which didn’t happen, but we’re happy with how we compet­ed.” 
The Belles return to action Saturday against MIAA rivals Alma. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
Kubinski 
continued from page 16 
why we were leading after the first round.” 
While Kubinski promised the foursome of freshman Niall Platt and juniors Tom Usher, Max Scodro and Chris Walker will be a major factor in Notre Dame’s competitive lineup for the remainder of the season, he also said the seniors will play an impor­tant role. 
“I think it’s important to note that all three of them will play this season for us,” Kubinski said. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 




page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 30, 2010 

Crist 
continued from page 16 
more yards on the ground. 
“You know, there has to be an element in the spread that the quarterback can keep the football at some time, and we're moving in that direc­tion,” Kelly said. “He's got to have an element of that with­in our offensive structure.” 
Crist has run the ball 23 times for a total of 16 yards on the season, though his -17 yards against Stanford Saturday hurt his totals. Junior quarterback Nate Montana has also run the ball this season, keeping it four times for 23 yards against Michigan on Sept. 11. 
“I think because every ­thing’s so new, we don’t readi­ly go to all the options and all the alternatives that are available in our offense,” offensive coordinator Charley Molnar said. “We’ve taught most of them, but it doesn’t just naturally come to the quarterback. It’s apparent to us that not having the quar­terback run at times puts us at a disadvantage.” 
Crist said his comfort run­ning the ball is not an issue. 
“I’m 100 percent comfort­able doing whatever I’m asked to do in the run game or in the pass game for that matter,” he said. “So if it presents a situation where I need to pull the ball down and run on a box play, I have no problem doing that, either. 
“Just, the situation really hasn’t presented itself a whole bunch in the last cou­ple games.” 
Fear of injury could be a factor in the coaches’ play-call decisions, Crist said. After a 10-yard rush in the first quarter against Michigan, Crist’s head hit the ground and he was unable to play for the rest of the first half. 
“It was never like a conver­sation that we had. But, I did notice that some of the play calls in which I'd be asked to run went down substantially in the past couple games,” Crist said. “I understand if that's the reasoning for it. But we’ve never had that conver­sation.” 
An improved ability to make reads and more work in prac­tice could also increase Crist’s rushing yardage, he said. 
“It's just I needed to do a better job of identifying when it presents itself and things like that,” he said. “But I think that will come with experience and through game plan and everything like that.” 
And according to Molnar, those opportunities should start presenting themselves more often. 
“Who’s to say that we won’t cut Dayne loose at any point in order to win a football game?” Molnar said. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Perry 
continued from page 16 
first half, but Wildcats senior forward Matt Eliason scored two minutes after halftime, placing a blocked-shot rebound into the back of the Irish net. 
“In the second half, we were a little slow to start,” Clark said. “But I felt that that period, it really almost fired us up when they scored their goal.” 
Notre Dame’s offense came through in the 79th minute of the game when senior forward Steven Perry, assisted by junior midfielder Michael Rose, sent a short shot past Wildcats keeper junior Drew Kotler. Kotler’s 11 saves against the Irish set a Northwestern record for most saves in a game. 
“When the goal came in with 12 minutes left, I was confident that we would finish the game with a win, but it never quite happened,” Clark said. “We had been pressing during the final minutes.” 
The Irish (3-2-3) notched 30 total shots, with 12 on goal. 
Notre Dame managed nearly twice as many shots in the sec­ond half of the contest as it did in the first. 
“We seemed to have run into quite a good goalkeeper,” Clark said. 
Though no winner was decid­ed at the end of the game, the game was certainly a success for the Irish offense. 
“When you get 30 shots in a game, when you force their goalie to 11 saves, that’s as good as it gets,” Clark said. 
Despite a performance that fell in line with his expectations, Clark took away one area of the game he would like to focus on this week in practice. 
“There were so many positives from this game, but we still need to figure out how to turn domi­nation into goals,” Clark said. “I don’t know the answer yet.” 
Wednesday’s game marked the season debut of senior goal­keeper and captain Phil Tuttle. Tuttle sat out the first portion of the season due to an achilles injury. 
“One big part of tonight’s game was having our captain, Phil Tuttle back,” Clark said. “It was great to have his leadership back on the field. He had some very good saves tonight, too.” 
The Irish will next welcome Providence to Notre Dame’s Alumni Stadium Sunday for their second Big East game of the season. 
“We didn’t get the win out, but it was an exciting game,” Clark said. “I feel very confident if we keep getting the shots we’re get­ting, we’ll be close to becoming a great team.” 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


Thursday, September 30, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Thursday, September 30, 2010 page 16 
FOOTBALL 

Up and running 
Kelly to be more aggressive with QB 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Despite operating in an offensive scheme that could benefit from a mobile quar­terback, coaches have yet to call many runs for junior Dayne Crist through the first four games. But Irish coach Brian Kelly said that could change, and soon. 
“We're going to put a pack­age in that's similar to the package that [Michigan quar­terback] Denard Robinson runs,” Kelly joked at his Tuesday press conference. “We just have to do some things with [Crist’s] speed right now.” 

While Kelly may not be thinking of running Crist as much as Robinson, who aver­ages 172 rushing yards per game, he was serious about getting his quarterback some GRACE KENESEY/The Observer 
Irish quarterback Dayne Crist carries the ball against Michigan State on Sept. 18. Irish coach see CRIST/page 14 Brian Kelly said Tuesday he will increase Crist’s workload in the ground game. 

SMC SOCCER 
Belles drop conference opener 3-0 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Sports Writer 
The Belles opened conference play with a 3-0 loss Wednesday against No. 12 Calvin at Zuidema Field in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
“Any time you play a ranked team, you get to test yourself against the best in the country,” Belles coach Michael Joyce said. “I was pretty happy with our performance toady. Our effort was top quality and we fought hard, but they are a very good team and ranked No. 12 for good reason.” 
The Knights (8-1-1, 1-0-0 MIAA) started strong when sophomore Jillian Honderd scored off an assist from senior Elaine Schnabel in the 26th minute. Schnabel quickly fol­lowed this with a second goal for the Knights off a pass from 
see HONDERD/page 13 


MEN’S GOLF 

Trio of seniors make contributions on, off the course 
said. “They’ve been huge in continue to emerge. Kubinski stroke average for the Irish, the senior. Alan-Lee did not
By CHRIS ALLEN 

practice, in the locker room, said the true impact of the competed for the Irish at the score in the five-count-four
Sports Writer 

especially with the freshman. seniors couldn’t be discerned season -opening College of format of the Classic, but I think that says a lot about from a box score. Charleston Invitational, and Kubinski said he was thrilled 
Through two early-season their maturity. This group “They’ve all contributed as posted a three-round total of with the senior’s three-round second-place tournament fin-has matured more than any underclassmen, some of them 25-over for the tournament, 15-over performance. ishes by the Irish, the youth group I’ve been around from since their freshmen year,” good enough for a 65th place “He hadn’t played in the movement appears to be their freshman to their senior Kubinski said. “It’s not a case finish individually in the size-lineup for us since last fall,” underway on Irish coach Jim year.” of them declining so much as able field. Kubinski said. “Then, for him Kubinski’s squad. But if The trio of Irish seniors, it is a case of our younger Alan-Lee got the nod in this to come out in front of there’s any group Kubinski is comprised of Dustin Zhang, guys rising up. Our recruiting week’s Fighting Irish Gridiron friends and shoot a 72 in the focusing on, it’s his group of Connor Alan -Lee and Jeff has had a lot to do with Golf Classic, as Kubinski first round was huge. It was seniors. Chen, have assumed more of that.” noted his experience and as much a reason as anything 
“[The seniors] have a major a mentorship role for the Chen, who entered the sea-familiarity with the course as role off the course,” Kubinski Irish as the younger players son in the top 10 in all-time two critical factors in starting see KUBINSKI/page 13 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish draw against Wildcats 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Despite outshining Northwestern in both shots and shots on goal, Notre Dame couldn’t pull away from the Wildcats in a 1-1, double-over­time draw Wednesday. 
The two Midwestern powers met at Toyota Park, home of the Chicago Fire, in Bridgeview, Ill. 
“It’s a great stadium, and a great place to play a game of soccer,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said of his program’s first appearance on a Major League Soccer (MLS) field. 
“We played awfully well. The stats will tell you where the game was. We controlled the game.” 
The teams played a scoreless 
see PERRY/page 14 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles fall to Thunder in MIAA road match 
By KATHARINE MACK 
Sports Writer 
Though the Belles started off strong, their momentum fade in the second and third sets helped MIAA Conference rival Trine overthrow Saint Mary’s Wednesday at Trine, 3-0 (27­25, 25-17, 25-16). 
“We worked hard tonight, we just were not able to fin­ish,” Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. 
Saint Mary (3-12) battled the Thunder during the first set with 10 ties and four lead changes. It looked like the first set was in the bag for Trine, but when the score came to 21-15, the Belles fought to tie the score, 22-22. Senior Ellen Huelsmann was at the helm during this five point run with effective serving. 
In the end, Trine (6-12) pulled away from the Belles winning the first set, which proved to set the tone for the rest of the match. 
The remaining two sets of the match were the Thunders to grab as the Belles were out­played in their attack game. Saint Mary’s attack percent­age for the second set was .121 to Trine’s .235. The final set yielded to even greater dis­parity as the Belles dropped to 
a .088 attack percentage to the Thunder’s .294. 
see BELLES/page 13 






