the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


ASU students to visit 
Oil spill still controversial 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
On a typical summer day, sophomore Emily Degan enjoys boating and fishing in the bay near her vacation home in Mississippi. However, the cata­strophic Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico drasti­cally altered her family’s plans this summer. 
“One time, we were fishing in an inlet in the bay before it was boomed off,” Degan said. “But a boat approached us and said the area we were in had been closed off to boaters.” 
Degan also saw oil sheen and boon from both Mississippi and her home in New Orleans, two effects of the spill that have con­tributed to the closure of numer­ous bodies of water throughout the Gulf region. 
Although the United States government declared the disas­



during football game 


By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 

Arizona State University (ASU) students and staff will experi­ence the energy that electrifies the Notre Dame community on a home football weekend when they visit campus for the upcom­ing Pittsburgh game. 
Director of Student Activities Facilities Ryan Willerton said 15 students and six administrators from ASU will arrive on campus Thursday to participate in a weekend designed to teach them about tradition at Notre Dame. 
AP 

ASU Associate Athletic 
Workers remove a drill pipe that pumped the cement to seal the Director Steve Hank graduated 
well that caused the oil spill off the Louisiana Coast. from Notre Dame in 1994 and contacted the University’s 
ter-causing oil well dead on effects of the spill on life in the 

Athletic Department to coordi-Sept. 19, Degan and people Gulf region. Teams of scientists, 
nate the trip, Willerton said. across the country are question­
“Their intent is to see what ing the immediate and long-term see SPILL/page 4 
makes Notre Dame special and take ideas back to ASU,” Willerton said. “They want to use this opportunity to make their student life more vibrant.” 
The ASU students were select­ed from undergraduate and graduate student government, residence hall associations and major student organizations, Willerton said. 
The relationship between the athletic program and the stu­dent body at Notre Dame is one of the main reasons ASU will visit the campus. 
“When we say student athletes are truly a part of the student body, it is true. We are not cheering for a separate entity when we root on our team. We are cheering for our peers,” Hall Council President Alexa Doyle said. 
Student leaders on campus 
see STUDENTS/page 5 



Past SMC president dies at 89 
Observer Staff Report 
Former president of Saint Mary’s College Dr. Edward L. Henry died Sept. 30. He was 89. 
Henry was the first male lay president to lead at Saint Mary’s, serving from 1972-74. He took the positi on after an attempted merger between Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame fell Henry through, and the future of the Saint Mary’s looked uncertain, according to a 1972 South Bend Tribune article. 

When Henry took over at Saint Mary’s, the College was set to lose over $600,000 because of the failed merger, the article said. 
“Dr. Edward L. Henry, Saint Mary’s new president, is counting on unprecedented student recruitment, fund drives, plus a nudge from Women’s Lib to pump life back into the faltering campus,” the article said. 
During that time, Notre Dame also began admitting women, which hurt Saint Mary’s enroll­ment. 
An edition of Michiana — a weekly magazine that was dis­tributed in South Bend at the 
see PAST/page 4 



Traveling Bishops discuss peace in Sudan 
By LAURA MYERS 
News Writer 
Bishop Paride Taban and Bishop Daniel Adwok Kur are part of a Sudanese religious coalition traveling to Europe and the United States looking to stave off a civil war in their country. With high-level meetings arranged in Washington, D.C., and with the United Nations in New York City, the two traveled to America a week early in order to begin their appeal at Notre Dame. 

Along with John Ashworth, act­ing director of the Denis Hurley Peace Institute in South Africa, Taban and Adwok spoke of possi­ble impending trouble in Sudan Tuesday in a talk titled “Sudan: Peace in the Balance.” 
“Notre Dame is an important University with interacting with peace-building people,” Ashworth told The Observer fol­lowing the presentation. “Obviously in Washington and New York we’re reaching out to government and the U.N. and others, but this is us reaching out to the Catholic community.” 
The northern and southern parts of Sudan have been in con­flict on-and-off for more than 50 years; in 2005; the two parties signed the Comprehensive Peace Agreement, which scheduled a referendum for Jan. 9, 2011, in which citizens of Southern Sudan could vote whether or not to secede from the country. 
With less than 100 days until the referendum, however, things have not progressed as planned and peacemakers fear that the centralized government of Sudan, which is located in the country’s capital, Khartoum, will somehow rig the vote. 
Regardless of the official results, Ashworth said, the south will want to secede. 
“For them, the vote is just a for­mality,” he said. “On Jan. 9 will be the formality, the process of voting. The process of informing the world, ‘we have decided to secede.’ They know that the deci­sion has been made to secede 
see SUDAN/page 4 



Married professors work together 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Many members of the Notre Dame community believe there is a “ring by spring” sentiment that pervades campus and the students. But what many people might not realize is that there is something in the air for many members of the Notre Dame fac­ulty as well. 
Notre Dame’s faculty features several individuals who are not only professional colleagues, but also husband and wife. 
Some of these Domer duos came to teach at Notre Dame together, while others spent time at separate institutions or careers before becoming the second member from their fami­ly to receive a faculty position at the University. 
Professors Joshua Diehl and Kristin Valentino both teach in the Department of Psychology at the University. The couple, who have been married “5 years, 1 month and 27 days” both received positions at Notre Dame last year. 

“During our postdoctoral fel­lowship at Yale, we both went job hunting as a ‘package Diehl,’” Diehl said. “Notre Dame was the best opportunity for both of us because of its fantas­tic psychology department, top notch students, and the mission of the University fits well with both of our programs of research.” 
Other professor-couples strug­gled with trying to find an aca­demic position at the same uni­versity, or even in the same time zone. 
Professor Annie Coleman of the Department of American Studies, who is married to 

Photo courtesy of Joshua Diehl 

Professors Joshua Diehl and Kristin Valentino bond in the locker room during their faculty tour in 2009. 
Professor Jon Coleman of the band’s was difficult. Department of History, said “Jon got a position here at before she found a position at Notre Dame in 2004 when I was Notre Dame last year, balancing her own career with her hus-see DEALS/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students compete in ‘Challenge’ page 3  Now and then page 9  Football: Team looks to build from momentum page 16  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesday, October 6, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT DO YOU DO W EN T E WEAT ER GETS COLD?

THE OBSERVER 








P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Meaghan Veselik Alicia Smith Allan Joseph Melissa Flanagan Joe Wirth 
Graphics Scene 
Sofia Iturbe Jordan Gambale 
Photo Viewpoint 
Coleman Collins Patricia Fernandez 
OFFBEAT 
Fed-up girlfriend calls cops on pot-smoking beau 
LEBANON — A 35-year­old man was charged in Missouri with possessing marijuana after his girl­friend called 911 and said she was tired of him smok­ing pot all day instead of working. Dispatchers in the southwestern Missouri town of Lebanon got a 911 hang-up call Saturday night from a motel room. Police said officers went to the motel and were told by the woman that her boyfriend did nothing dur­ing the day but smoke mar­ijuana. 
The Lebanon Daily Record reported that the man told police his girl­friend was angry because 

Theresa Lai  Christie Ahn  Anh-Ton Tran  Nikita Taniparti  Tyler Richards  Ana Dionne-Lanier  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  freshman  freshman  freshman  
Lewis  Lewis  Keenan  Badin  Keenan  Pasquerilla West  

“I put on “I don’t get “I wish I was “I play in the
“I wear layers!” “I like to come Muffrique and cold, I’m just back in India!” snow, when it’s 
to LaFun to getTabitha hot.” down.” 
some hot (mittens).” 
chocolate.” 




Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

he didn’t have a job yet. He then admitted having mari­juana in his car, and hand­ed over a pipe containing the illegal drug. 
He was issued a sum­mons for possession and released. 
Police: Napping man had meth lab in back of truck 
GOOD HOPE, — Authorities said sleeping behind the wheel wasn't the only problem for a western Illinois man they caught napping at a gas station. Police said 26-year old Adam Barcroft also had a meth lab in the bed of his truck. The McDonough County Sheriff’s Department said Barcroft was asleep at a Good Hope gas station Monday when deputies discovered him. 
He was arrested, and his truck was pushed away from the gas pumps. 
The Illinois State Police Meth amph etamine Response Team then arrived and secured the truck. 
Officials said they recov­ered several items used to make meth, 2 grams of fin­ished meth and $238 in cash. 
Barcroft, of Monmouth, faces five drug-related charges. 
It wasn’t immediately clear whether he has an attorney. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Free flu shots will be given out today at Stepan Center from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. The shots are available for all stu­dents, faculty, staff, retirees and spouses of retirees. Tomorrow, the shots will be available from 1 to 9 p.m. 
An International Summer Service Learning Program Information Session will take place today in the McNeill Library in Geddes Hall at 6 
p.m. Past participants will be there to describe the process, the requirements, and the dif­ferent sites. There will be time for questions. 
The Department of Film, Television and Theatre pres­ents “The Bible: The Complete Word of God” (abridged) today at 7:30 p.m. at the Philbin Studio Theater. Tickets are $10 for students and can be purchased online at performingarts.nd.edu or by calling the Ticket Office at (574) 631-2800. 
The Annual McBride Lecture: “Beyond the Glass Ceiling: It’s Time to Redesign the Building” will be given today at 7:30 p.m. in the Andrews Auditorium in Geddes Hall. The lecture will be given by Ellen Bravo, the executive director of Family Values @ Work Consortium. The event is free. 
This Friday, the Even Fridays activity will be a Pumpkin Patch Visit. It will begin at 5:30 p.m. and is open to all students, faculty and staff. Register before the event through RecRegister on the RecSports website. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday GAME DAY Sunday 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



70 58 HIGH 7072 6870
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


50 50 LOW 4647 4550 







Wednesday, October 6, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Gigot hosts ‘Idea Challenge’ at ND 

SMC hosts fall 
By PATRICK CRUITT 
News Writer 
Ideas ranged from the high tech to the socially and environmen­tally conscious to the bizarre at the third annual Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial St udies’ Idea an “elevator pitch” — the opportunity to present poten­tial investors or partners with an original idea. 
“The goal of the Gigot Center is to really look at the idea of venture development as a spectrum from idea to enterprise,” Laura Hollis, 
“The best projects are 
Challenge, held yesterday in the usually Mendoza College interdisciplinary.” 
of Business. Ideas included 
Laura Hollis
everything from laser pointers to director automated uri-Gigot Center 
nal carnival games. 
Each student is given one minute to present their idea in front of an audience, which then votes on the best. 
The objective is to simulate 


$15,000 
grand prize, 
according to 
Gigot’s web­
site. 
Stu dents 
can be 
intimidated 
by the 
prospect of 
presenting 
their ideas, 
so this event 
is supposed 
to help ease 
that anxiety, 
Hollis said. 
Both the 
director of the Gigot Center, said. 
The event is meant to kick off the rounds of competi ­tions that come later, such as the main 
McClosky Competition, which gives students the opportuni­ty to present their business plans in the hopes of the 
“The goal of the Gigot Center is to really look at the idea of venture devel­opment as a spectrum from idea to enterprise” 
Laura Hollis director Gigot Center 
Idea Challenge and McClosky Competition are open to all Notre Dame students, no matter the major. 
“The best projects are usu­ally interdisciplinary,” Hollis said. 
After all of the students have presented, the audi­ence votes. There are two overall winners in two cate­gories, Best Social Venture 



show for cancer 
By KELLY MURPHY 
News Writer 
Fall is here, and with the cold starting to creep up, students are changing from summer’s shorts and tanks to fall’s jeans and scarves. Saint Mary’s will be hold­ing a Runway Fall Fashion Show on Oct. 7 at 6 p.m. in the Dining Hall to give students ideas for fall fashions, jun­ior Brianne 
According to Flourish Boutique’s website, the Saint Mary’s models will be showing all different ranges of styles from different brands, including Cupcake, Shennel, CC Couture, Berek and Signette. 
There is no admission fee or ticket required to attend this event, Suckow said. 
Flourish Boutique and Gallery will have their clothes, shoes, jew­
elry, artwork 
and other 
Casey Cockerham and Joe 

Suckow said. “One in eight women will accessories 
Miller won the general com-

Suckow, the develop breast cancer available for 
Women’s purchase in 
petition, both garnering new 

during her lifetime, so
iPads for their ideas. 

Health and the Student 
Cockerham’s idea was to put 

Wellness com-raising awareness about Center 
missioner for Atrium on 
bar codes on posters in order 

the disease is important,
Saint Mary’s Oct. 7 from 
to instantly obtain digital 

especially at an
Student 11 a.m. to 1
information about the event award went to a plan to set up medical kiosks around the world so that doctors in developing nations could learn about medical proce­dures while providing data for the study of disease, Hollis said. 
and  Best  H ea lth  c are  
Venture.  
The Best  Social Ve nt ure  

A plan to apply mobile technology to fighting dia­betes in developing nations won the Best Health care Venture category. 

Government all-women’s college.” p.m. Flourish 
in ques ­

Association carries sizes 
tion. 

(SGA), said the XS to XL or 4
“It was 

Brianne Suckow 
event will give to 16. 
one of 

junior
15 percent of Students will 
those back 
the proceeds 
of the 
to support 
envelope 
Vera Bradley Breast Cancer 
sketches,” 
Awareness and Research. 
he said. 
“One in eight women will devel-
Now that 
op breast cancer during her life-
it appears 
time, so raising awareness about 
to have 
the disease is important, especial-
earned a 
ly at an all-women’s college,” 
certain 
Suckow said. 
amount of 
This fashion show will be fea­
attention, 
turing fall trends from Flourish
he plans 
Boutique and Gallery, run by a
on devel­receive a 15 
percent dis­count, Suckow said. 
Along with Flourish Boutique’s sale, pink hairstreaks will be offered for purchase from Cilantro Hair Spa in the Student Center. 
The first 20 people who come to purchase a pink hairstreak will receive a $20 gift card to Cilantro Hair Spa. 
On Oct. 7, the Saint Mary’s Noble Family Dining Hall will be providing pink-colored food. This ranges from pink-frosted desserts to pink applesauce. 
“We have received a great response and a lot of enthusiasm from the student body about this event,” Suckow said. 
Contact Kelly Murphy at kmurph04@saintmarys.edu 
oping it further, Cockerham 
said. 
Miller’s idea consisted of 
putting a Bluetooth connec­
tion in digital cameras, to 
allow for instant sharing of 
pictures. 


Contact Patrick Cruitt at pcruitt@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s alumna, Vanessa Cooreman Smith, located in Granger, Ind. 
Models for the event, which are current Saint Mary’s students who submitted applications, were cho­sen based on different hair color, ethnicities and sizes, Suckow said. 
Each model will be showing two different outfits. 





Dante expert to join ND faculty 
Special to The Observer 
One of the world’s leading Dante scholars, Zygmunt G. Baranski, is slated to join Notre Dame faculty next fall as the University’s first Notre Dame professor of Dante and Italian Studies. 
He also serves as a distinguished visiting professor this semester. 
Baranski comes to Notre Dame from the University of Cambridge, where, since 2002, he has been the Serena Professor of Italian and, between 2002 and 2006, head of the Department of Italian in the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages. From 1987 to 2002, Baranski first held a Personal and then an Established Chair in the Department of Italian Studies at the University of Reading, where, for many years, he was also head of the department. 
“I feel that Notre Dame is exactly the right place for me to be going at this point in my career,” Baranski said. “I have a lot of respect for the colleagues I’ve met, and have already collaborated with a lot of them. One of the other things I find extremely attractive is the fact that the University has a strong commitment to modern lan­guages.” 
Notre Dame also has a strong commitment to Catholicism and to a classic liberal arts education, which makes Dante an ideal sub­ject to research, teach and study here, said Baranski, who joins other top Dante experts in the College of Arts and Letters, includ­ing Albert J. and Helen M. Ravarino Family Director of Dante and Italian Studies Ted Cachey, associate professor of Italian Christian Moevs and assistant pro­fessor of Religion and Literature Vittorio Montemaggi. 
“I will be the fourth Dantist in the department,” Baranski said. “Nowhere else in the world is there such a grouping of Dante schol­ars.” 
Baranski has been a visiting dis­tinguished professor at Notre Dame on several previous occa­sions and has given numerous guest lectures on campus over the past two decades, said Cachey, who also is chair of the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, and co-director of Italian Studies at Notre Dame. 
“Last spring, he gave an excel­lent lecture on the Divine Comedy in the Medieval Institute that illus­trated well the profoundly Catholic character of his scholarship on the greatest poet of the Middle Ages,” said Cachey. “The visit consolidated the reputation that Zyg Baranski has established here at Notre Dame as a wonderful teacher and an inspiring intellectual presence.” 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 6, 2010 
Ramzi Bualuan, a professor of 

tion as president in January of Henry was born in 1921 in St. Computer Science and 
1974. Cloud, Minn. He graduated from 
Deals 
Past
Engineering, has been at the 

“My timetable for those areas Saint John’s University and went continued from page 1 University since 1990. His wife, 
over which I could exercise to graduate school at Harvard 
continued from page 1 
professor Ghada Bualuan, whom 

influence is running ahead of University and the University of coming up for tenure at IUPUI he married in 2001, received a 
time — said when Henry itself. My commitments to the Chicago. [Indiana University Purdue job in the Department of Classics 
stepped down in 1974, Saint College, I feel, have been more Henry also served as a naval University at Indianapolis],” she in 2006. 
Mary’s enrollment was up by than fulfilled,” Henry said in a officer during World War II. said. “I drove down to “We surprisingly don’t see each 
150 percent since he entered 1974 press release from the Saint Mary’s current president, Indianapolis for four or five years other that much,” Ramzi said. 
office. College. Carol Ann Mooney, expressed and was gone two nights a week “Our schedules don’t coincide 
“The scholastic average at Before coming to Saint Mary’s, her regret over Henry’s passing to keep on the tenure track.” but that’s intentional so that we 
Saint Mary’s is above the level Henry served as mayor of St. in a press release. Jon and Annie said it was can better manage our children’s 
prevailing before the merger Cloud, Minn. from 1964 to 1971, “Ed Henry became president especially difficult because their schedules.” 
attempt even though the school professor and vice president at of Saint Mary’s at a pivotal time children were 1 and 4 years old Ghada said working at the 
has lost some of the very top girl St. John’s University and presi-in our history,” Mooney said. when the family moved to South same University, albeit in differ-
students to Notre Dame,” the dent of St. Michael’s College, “We are grateful for his strong Bend. ent fields, does have its advan-
Michiana article said. Marian College and Wisconsin leadership and send our condo­“It strengthened our relation-tages. 
Henry resigned from his posi-and Belmont Abbey. lences to his family.” ship in a lot of ways,” Coleman “It does make it easier working said. “But I couldn’t have kept in the same place,” she said. “We doing it forever, but it worked share almost similar back-
that power, they have the wealth, Peace Studies. out really well in the end grounds, talents and aspira­
they forget even about their reli-“It seems that for Notre Dame, because I love working in the tions.” 

Sudan 

gion. Unfortunately, that is what this is an issue that would matter Department of American Studies While the Bualuans may not 
continued from page 1 is happening in Sudan.” to us all,” said junior Patrick here.” run into any professional dis-
In fact, one of the south’s McCormick, Student Senate Other professor couples have agreements because of their dif­
and they will try to secede. biggest concerns is being able to social concerns chair, who found different ways to pursue ferent subjects, Diehl and 
“That could lead to war. So have an identity separate from attended the dinner. McCormick their professional academic life Valentino have found ways to 
we’re warning that there is a the northern religion, Adwok intends to introduce a resolution while remaining on campus with make their shared professional 
very, very real danger that this said. to the Senate in Wednesday’s their spouse. interests into an intellectual com-
war is going to start again. And “The question of identity was meeting that will outline an edu-Professor Kevin Vaughan of the petition involving their students. 
it’s not often that we can give you raised right from the beginning,” cation and advocacy campaign Department of Biology was “We have a lab rivalry,” 
a start date of a war.” he said. “The people of the south, about the issue. He said the recruited to teach at the Valentino said. “At the end of 
Adwok, auxiliary bishop of they say, ‘Among us there are Senate has been working closely University in 1998, but his wife, each semester our labs engage in 
Khartoum, works with southern Muslims, among us there are on the issue with Catholic Relief fellow biologist Patricia Vaughan, a competition for a trophy. 
refugees living in the north part Christians. Therefore, not one Services (CRS) and a copy of the took a different route within the Currently, Professor Diehl’s FUN 
of the country. He said the cen-system can be imposed on us.’” resolution was given to each pan-University. Lab has the hardware.” 
tralized government of The government’s oppression elist. “I chose not to pursue a tenure Diehl and Valentino have also 
Khartoum, which controls nearly of the south makes the idea of “They’re going to put it on the track because of our children,” found a unique way for inform-
all of the country’s resources, has unity nearly impossible, Adwok CRS website as an example of she said. “I’m research faculty so ing unaware students that the 
oppressed the Southerners for said. This is why the groups are what students can do,” he said. I work in my husband’s research two professors are married. 
many years. trying to raise international “From what CRS is telling us, the lab, but I’ve also taught since “We both tend to use clips of 
While Muslims run the govern-awareness, in hopes of reducing more we can do to draw atten­2005.” our son to highlight examples 
ment, Taban, bishop emeritus of a violent northern reaction to tion to what’s going in the Sudan, The two remain in close prox-in class,” Diehl said. “It’s 
Tobit, said Islam and Christianity southern secession. the better off the people on the imity and see each other always kind of funny when stu­
are not in conflict. “The reason that we are com-ground think that they’ll be.” throughout the day. dents realize that we must be 
“When we founded the new ing here is to allow the people of Taban said it is especially “Our offices are right next door married based on the fact that 
Sudan council of churches in the the south to hear their voice, important for students to be to each other and we usually we have the same adorable 
south, even the Muslim churches their cry for justice, their cry for informed. have lunch together,” she said. child.” 
wanted to join,” he said. “We dignity,” Adwok said. “And even “This is a university. These are Other faculty couples do not 
said, let us be friends. We know if the referendum is manipulated, the future leaders,” he said. see each other often due to dif-Contact Molly Madden at 
you don’t get much aid. We shall is rigged, I don’t think the dignity “Tomorrow they will be the lead­ferent fields of study. mmadden3 @nd.edu 
share what we have. And we live of the human person can be ers of the country. They should 
so friendly in the south with the rigged by anybody. And here in know about other parts of the 
Muslims who are there.” an international community, we world. … We are billing them as 
The ASU students and staff will 

Taban said the role of religion have to say, ‘Let these people future leaders. Not just by words, 
hear presentations from Game 

in Sudan is no longer being con-go.’” but by action.” Day Operations, women’s basket-

Students 

fined to the spiritual. After the talk, the delegation continued from page 1 ball and the Athletics Department. 
“Religion is being exploited by had dinner with students of the Contact Laura Myers at The students will also attend an 
those in power. Once people have Kroc Institute for International lmyers2@nd.edu 
will host the visitors in their open house with informational dorms and introduce them to tables from student government, Notre Dame traditions. Student Union Board, The Shirt 
“Notre Dame hosts are welcom-Project and several other student ing them into their hall communi-groups. ties for the weekend,” Willerton Sophomore Ricky Bevington will said. host a member of ASU’s 
Doyle said she wanted to host a Interfraternity Council (IFC). visiting student because conversa-The unique residential life on tions between schools can provide campus is the base of game day an interesting viewpoint on the spirit at Notre Dame, Bevington way other universities function. said. 
“Over 80 percent of our stu-“I feel that it will be a great dents live in residence halls,” opportunity for the ASU IFC lead-Doyle said. “I hope they get a feel ers to see how our residence halls for how we maintain that bond.” play an integral role in game 
The line between the athletic weekend,” he said. “What makes program and the student body game day so great is the sense of really blur with the sense of com-community formed when thou­munity at this school, Doyle said. sands of students come together 
Student body president with thousands of fans to support Catherine Soler said she hopes a University that means so much the students will see the family to us.” aspect of the Notre Dame commu-Sophomore Class Council vice nity. president Kevin Doherty said the 
“We have a lot of external visitors’ schedule will take them events going on during a football through all the events that con-weekend,” Soler said. “But our tribute to the vibe of a Notre student body is really motivated Dame football weekend. internally with a love and a loyalty “I think it is hard to put into for Notre Dame.” words but it all comes down to the 
The Arizona State group will tradition of the football program participate in events that define a here,” Doherty said. traditional football weekend, The Notre Dame representa­including the Friday trumpet tives hope the ASU students will under the dome, the drummer’s see the spirit that builds through circle, the player walk from the Friday march out, the pep rally, Basilica to the Notre Dame the drummer’s circle, Saturday Stadium Saturday and the band concession stands and game day concert on the steps of Bond Hall events, and hopefully they can before the game. take some strategies back to their 
They are also encouraged to campus to build a community of attend events for men’s and fans there, he said. women’s swimming and diving as “We all just truly love our well as women’s soccer. University,” Bevington said. 
“This is also meant to be an “That’s what makes the alma educational experience where the mater at the end of the game so visitors can witness and partici-awesome.” pate in Notre Dame traditions but also see how the entire weekend Contact Megan Doyle  at operates,” Willerton said. mdoyle11@nd.edu 


Wednesday, October 6, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 

Spill 
continued from page 1 
including Notre Dame profes­sors, are attempting to answer the most pressing questions about the aftermath of the spill. 
Joannes Westerink, professor of civil engineering and geologi­cal sciences, said the primary question to be answered is sim­ple: Where did all the oil go? 
“The oil obviously dispersed throughout the region, but the exact locations and concentra­tions of this oil are relatively unknown at the moment,” Westerink said. “In such a huge volume of water, the oil has mixed into different layers of water, but no one knows how much oil has actually deteriorat­ed thus far.” 
Westerink said it is too early to determine the effects of the mix­ing of oil with Gulf waters, espe­cially on wetland ecosystems and human health. However, he noted that the initial visual inspection of wetland areas throughout the Gulf region has been somewhat promising in that the oil has not seemed to penetrate deep into those areas. 
Unfortunately, this does not mean the oil has fully disap­peared, he said. 
“Even though we can’t see a lot of this oil anymore, its impacts will be discovered over the next few years if people dili­gently look for it,” Westerink said. 
However, the Gulf region’s high propensity for hurricane activity has prompted Westerink and his colleagues with another important question. 
“We are trying to predict what would happen to the oil in these inland waters if a major hurri­cane were to occur,” Westerink said. 
In response to this question, Westerink and his colleagues are applying their Advanced Circulation Model (ADCIRC), a sophisticated computer model used by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and FEMA that meas­ures inland storm surge pene­tration, to the Deepwater Horizon spill as a means of pre­dicting the long-term effects of a hurricane’s storm surge on inland waters such as bays, estuaries, and wetlands in the Gulf coastal flood plane. 
Westerink said his team is using ADCIRC in conjunction with satellite imagery from the University of Texas to form a forecasting system that can track the movement of a simu­lated spill of millions of oil parti­cles with tide, wind and atmos­pheric pressure data. The data gathered by this system would be compared to an image taken several days later to project a clear picture of where the simu­lated spill has moved. 
“From this data, we should be able to determine how far inland the oil would penetrate, what kind of wetlands it would impact and the possible impact on marine and human life if a hur­ricane were to occur,” Westerink said. “This is important because even small concentrations of oil can be very harmful to marine life and human health.” 


A point of concern for resi­dents of the Gulf region lies in the impact of the spill on marine life, namely shell fisheries in wetland regions and the blue fin tuna spawning ground located near the site of the disaster. 
“This summer, I saw a brown pelican covered in oil while I was fishing in Mississippi,” Degan said. “It made me sad and angry about the spill in general.” 
The economic effects of the spill have already taken a toll on the fishing industry and local eateries in that many shell fish­eries have been closed due to the presence of oil, which has been reflected in the skyrocket­ing prices of seafood, especially oysters. 
“Oysters are one of the main exports from southern Louisiana, so their high prices have hurt everyone who makes their living off the sea,” senior Margaret Jumonville said. “The spill really economically affected a state that was having a hard enough time coming back from Hurricane Katrina.” 
In response to the effects of the spill on people in the fishing industry, the Catholic Charities in the Archdiocese of New Orleans began needs assess­ments in coastal areas where many workers in the industry live, Catholic Charities Parish Social Ministry Coordinator Nick Albares, a 2008 Notre Dame graduate, said. 
“Since those initial assess­ments, we have established social service centers in five Catholic parishes in various areas of New Orleans,” Albares said. “At these sites, Catholic Charities social workers and counselors work with clients on case plans, including budgeting and accessing government assis­tance and other services.” 
Catholic Charities workers also assisted clients in obtaining food, direct financial assistance, clini­cal counseling and pastoral care, Albares said. He said all people affected by the oil spill were also impacted by Hurricane Katrina and, to a lesser extent, Hurricane Ike. 
“They are resilient but suffer­ing,” Albares said. “The claims process has been highly ineffec­tual for many, and the national media has turned its attention away from the Gulf Coast.” 
Just five years after Katrina took its toll on the Gulf region, the Deepwater Horizon spill has created another economic crisis for Louisiana and its neighbor­ing states that will take years to be fixed. 
“It’s going to be years before our economy and lifestyle go back to normal,” Degan said. 
Despite the huge potential for economic and ecological damage due to the spill, Westerink said he hopes the improvement in technology that occurred after Katrina will happen again in the aftermath of the oil spill. 
“After Katrina happened, peo­ple invested in understanding the processes behind it and put effort into improving technology such as computational models,” Westerink said. “The same is true for the oil spill. It triggered a push for improved technology and measurements, and the number one thing we’ve learned is how little we know about its effects in the future. We need to improve our ability to under­stand and predict the effects of these disasters.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 
page 6 Wednesday, October 6, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Hobbies 
Last week was a rough one for me. Like most of my fellow Domers, I had my first randomly placed three — test week of the semester with the added bonus of a nasty virus that left me bed ridden for most of the week. 
One morning, Mike Gotimer after I had finally summoned the 
Sports W riter 
strength to walk the seven feet to my bathroom and shower, I flipped on the light switch and almost screamed, for the vanity lights clear­ly showed nice treasure trove of grey hairs. Added with the fact that every doctor I saw last week was kind enough to let me know that I have abnormally high blood pressure for a 21 year old, I was struck with a sober realization that I’m becoming my father much faster than I had anticipated. 
Realizing that I need to slow down this process and preserve my youthful beauty, I started thinking about what the possible source of my grey hairs could be, and natu­rally I was drawn right to my rooting inter­ests. As of that point, Notre Dame was 1-3, my beloved Giants were 1-2 and cat-fight­ing in the locker room on a daily basis, the Yankees were limping into the playoffs (and eventually blew their first ever September division lead), and LeBron was dunking with Dwyane Wade in South Beach instead of Amar’e on Broadway. With a bleak sports outlook, on the horizon, I decided that I temporarily need a new hobby. Here’s what I’ve come up with: 
1. 
Sports Video Games: I thought this might be a logical choice, seeing as I can still watch sports, but in this realm, I have a hand in the outcome. However, my NCAA Road to Glory athlete was just as heart­breaking as real life. In his sophomore sea­son, with a national championship bid on the line and the Irish trailing by four at hated USC with under a minute to go, my quarterback threw a 25-yard completion to TE #9, who then fumbled and allowed USC to return it for a touchdown, ending my national championship dreams. The follow­ing season I lost to Ohio State in the title game in triple overtime. It turns out virtual reality isn’t so virtual after all. 

2. 
Television: Everybody loves some good old TV to make himself feel better, and I’m no exception. With Eastbound and Down and How I Met Your Mother Back in com­mission and good potential in shows like Hawaii 5-0 and Boardwalk Empire, I could be glued to the tube for a month. However, I’d always end up back at channel 34 at some point or another, and the stress cycle would continue. 

3. 
Gardening: This is the real dark horse in the group. When I was in high school, I always used to laugh at my dad and uncle’s obsession with planting their impatiens every spring. I mean, come on, they’re flow­ers, that’s pansy stuff. Now that I’m a home­owner myself, however, I always wonder what would make my house look better everyday when I come home. While walk­ing on Library Quad the other day, I noticed some lovely pachysandra growing around that fence that blocks the quad from Gate E, and I thought that could make my house look nice and keep the neighborhood kids away from the porch. 

4. 
Politics: Everyone tells me there’s a big election coming up this year, so I could track that, but it would inevitably turn into me picking red or blue and watching as the other side lies, cheats, steals and cripples my dreams. I’m taking a different political approach however, as I’m officially kick-starting my campaign to be the first ND graduate in the White House. The key is finding an all-star running mate, but I think I’ve got that covered. So until my teams start winning again, I’ll be devoting all of my free time to Gotimer — the Situation 2036. 


The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and 
n o t  n e c e s s a r i l y  t h o s e  o f  Th e  
Observer.  
C o n t a c t  M ik e  G o t i m e r  a t  
mgotimer@nd.edu  


You never really pray alone 
There is no such thing as “private” prayer. There is — and certainly should be — deeply personal prayer, but really no such thing as “private” prayer. All Christian prayer, if it is true to its name, is initiated by the promptings of the Michael Heintz Holy Spirit received in G uest Baptism, who Colum nist prays in and through the hearts of the baptized who together are consti­tuted as the Body of Christ, the Church. Two things are worth noting here: First, all prayer begins with God’s initiative (it’s graced — in the Tradition, the Holy Spirit is often referred to as “uncreated Grace”), and, second, the Church is constituted by God’s action, not by mere human choice or conscious decision. Decision is obvious­ly important, as the Gospels relate, in responding to Jesus, but it’s also impor­tant to remember that the invitation comes first. All prayer then, personal or public, is done in communion with the Body of Christ, the Church, as the Spirit draws us in Christ to an ever-deeper com­munion with the Father. 
Public, liturgical prayer should shape, inform and nurture our personal prayer. That is, rather than accommodating our experience of liturgical prayer to our experience of personal prayer — and thus asking, for example, whether the liturgy of the Church “meets my needs” or “touches me personally” — we should allow the public prayer of the Church continually to affect our experience of personal prayer, drawing us out of our­selves and uniting us more deeply to the self-offering of Christ to the Father. Our needs, like our tastes, should themselves be open to and subject to ongoing conver­sion. 
The prayer of the Church par excel­lence is the Mass. The Eucharistic Liturgy, the Church tells us, is in fact the most effective thing the Church does. As Pope Benedict made clear in his first encyclical, 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Deus Caritas Est, the entire social mission of the Church, its apostolates of active charity and social justice, for example, derive their purpose and meaning — and their eschatological effectiveness — from the Sacrifice of the Altar, where the full­ness of Love is revealed not as a human ideal but as a Divine Person. That’s one of the reasons Mass is offered daily, and why Catholics are encouraged to participate regularly — even daily, when possible — at Mass. Ask anyone who, over the course of time, has had the opportunity to become a “daily communicant,” and each will no doubt tell you that the opportunity to celebrate Mass daily has made a pro­found difference in his or her life. 
At every celebration of the Eucharist, Christ reveals himself and is present in four distinct ways: in his Word pro­claimed (it’s God, not merely the lector, who speaks to us when the Scriptures are proclaimed), in the person of the priest or bishop (who acts in persona Christi), in the assembled people of God, and most especially (maxime is the word used in the documents of the Church, literally, “most of all”) in the consecrated ele­ments, the bread and wine upon which the Holy Spirit is invoked and which are substantially changed into the Body and Blood of Jesus Christ. 
It is this last, substantial and efficacious presence of Christ which in fact consti­tutes the Church and which makes Christ present among his people. So it’s not that, because we have gathered as the Church that somehow the Eucharist reveals Christ’s presence; rather, it’s because Christ reveals himself in the breaking of the bread (as he did to Cleopas and his otherwise unknown sidekick on the road to Emmaus), that we recognize him as present in the assembled people of God. It is the Holy Spirit who constitutes the Church by configuring us to Christ through our sharing in the Eucharist. Saint Augustine in one of his homilies (Sermon 272) suggests to his congrega­tion that it is “their Mystery” which is placed on the altar and that they are to “become what they receive” — their iden­tity (and ours) is derived from the mystery of the Lord’s dying and rising, which St. Paul teaches we somehow carry within us as we trundle about from day to day. Our participation in the Eucharist is what incorporates us, quite literally, into the Body of Christ, the Church. There are of course many other modes of prayer and devotional life which distinguish the lives of Catholics: the Liturgy of the Hours, the Rosary, Lectio divina, Novenas, Chaplets, and Litanies, and a host of other ways of praying which adorn the Church. But this panoply of styles and approaches must all be seen as somehow participating in the one prayer of the Church, and always as taking their orientation from and ulti­mately leading back to, the celebration of the Eucharist. 
Even when alone, one is never praying alone. There are times when a priest may celebrate Mass without a congregation. Even in such cases, we believe that the entire Church, including the angels and saints, is somehow present in that cele­bration. A homebound person who devoutly prays each day, even if living alone, is an integral part of Christ’s Body, the Church, at prayer, offering itself to the Father in union with Christ and by the power of the Holy Spirit. A lone sopho­more, stopping by the Grotto to pray at the end of a long day, prays in commun­ion with the entire Church, whether she realizes it or not. All these individuals are not mere individuals when they pray: they pray as part of Christ’s Body, in com­munion with the whole Church on earth and, yes, even in heaven. 
You never really pray alone. 
Michael Heintz is an assistant professor at the Theology Department and director of Master of Divinity Program. He can be reached at mheintz1 @nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Everyone thinks of changing theworld, but no one thinks of changinghimself.” 
Leo Tolstoy Russian author 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Life can only be understoodbackwards, but it must be lived forwards.” 
Soren KierkegaardDanish philosopher 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, October 6, 2010 page 7 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
It is about winning 
Recently an observant (read: pigheaded) freshman decided to let her thoughts regarding the senior class be known. With infallible logic such as, “Notre Dame Football” is not about the football!” I realized how blind I have been the last four years. I haven’t been paying $245 each year to watch football, I’ve been donating that minor fee to socialize for four hours once a week. 
End sarcasm. Notre Dame football will always be about foot­ball, not showing up to the game plastered and taking a zillion pictures with every person I stumble into (which is what I assume she means when she says “being crazy, stubborn and unrelenting”). The bigger issue here is this: Notre Dame foot­ball is about winning. This applies to the whole school; winning drives this campus. People come to Notre Dame because they were student body president, valedictorians, or more concisely, winners. 
While this seems arrogant, this is what makes our school great. We have the confidence to expect to conquer whatever challenges we face. But not every person can be a winner, and sports are the perfect example. Unfortunately, in the last four years we have been too often on the losing side, with many of these losses being ugly. While BK has the team on the right track, we’re cautious to give ourselves to a freshman’s bound­less optimism because we know the sting of a thorough drub­bing (see Notre Dame football 2007). It’s like a cheating girl­friend. Every time you find out she cheats, it hurts you, but then for some reason you take her back. Then she cheats again, and it hurts even worse, because you should have seen it com­ing, but you didn’t. At some point you reach an ultimatum: show me real change or don’t come back. While I’m not disown­ing the football team, my optimism only asks that you give it a good reason to show itself again. 
Mckenna Nakamura 
senior 
Keough Hall 
Oct. 5 
Gun control 
In Monday’s Observer (“My cold dead hands”, Oct.4), Mr. Kyle Retzloff writes that Nazi Germany’s alleged confiscation of pri­vate weapons is proof that an armed citizenry can act as a check on tyranny. This is a claim one often hears from pro-gun com­mentators. The history of armed citizens in modern politics is indeed instructive, but not as Mr. Retzloff suggests. 
Armed resistance by isolated individuals is pointless, because a modern state easily crushes such opposition. It happens in our own country with awful regularity: a gunman holes himself up; the police lay siege; the gunman dies. All that, without the gov­ernment having to deploy a single one of its tanks, fighter bombers, or attack helicopters. 
Of course, individuals can band together. Guerrilla forces sometimes wear out the patience of foreign invaders, but not a determined government. Nazi Germany occupied most of Europe during World War II. Most countries produced heroic resistance fighters, but to the Germans they were little more than a nui­sance; defeating Hitler’s army took the full force of the Allied armies, not bands of armed citizens. After World War II, Ukrainian guerrillas fought on against the Soviets; they too were crushed, because a band of citizens is no match for an army. 
There is one exception: armed citizen “resistance” can indeed go far if the police and the army don’t defend the government. The German army watched from the sidelines as Hitler’s brown-shirted storm troopers (the SA) caused mayhem in the streets and destroyed German democracy. Mussolini made himself dic­tator by using his black-shirted *squadre* to bully the govern­ment and murder the opposition while the army looked on. The Bolsheviks came to power in Russia when the army was to much in disarray to stop a coup by the Red Guards. The drug gangs presently terrorizing Mexico illustrate the same point about the power of armed “citizens” to fight their government and bring fear and misery to their people. 
And the guns that Hitler is supposed to have taken away from the German people? As best I can tell, this story refers to the confiscation in 1933 of weapons from former Communist and Socialist militiamen. The Nazis’ own militia, the SA, of course kept their guns. Then, in 1934, Hitler had the entire SA leader­ship butchered. Even a heavily armed militia, it turned out, was helpless against the dictator. 
There are valid arguments for and against gun control. However, to imagine private gun owners standing up to totalitar­ianism is pure fantasy. 
Alexander M. Martin 
faculty 
Associate Professor of Modern European History 
Oct. 4 

Action in accordance with our principles 
In response to Sarah Furman’s viewpoint in the Sept. 24 issue of The Observer about ethical investments (“A call for ethical investment”), I read some interesting and troublingly dismissive responses on The Observer’s website. Some people have argued that the NLRB settlement closes the issue and that students who are raising con­cerns about HEI are drawing the matter out unnecessarily, or that the Notre Dame maga­zine article concerning Scott Malpass and his investment strategy is enough of an explana­tion of the University’s “ethical investments.” The article from the 2007-2008 winter issue states that the University investments are held to the standard of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB) and their investment principles. Drawing on this, the USCCB website states investors must seek “investment opportunities that meet both our financial needs and our social crite­ria…[specifically] 1) refusal to invest in com­panies whose products and/or policies are counter to the values of Catholic moral teaching or statements adopted by the Conference of bishops; 2) divesting from such companies.” Also, the USCCB calls on the necessity of active corporate participa­tion of investors in any case, but especially when the questions of ethical investments are being voiced “to influence the corporate culture and to shape corporate policies and decisions.” In dialogue with the University, these specifications by the USCCB have not been carried out, or at least the University has not mentioned their efforts, if there have been any, which is suspect because it seems logical for the University to underscore these activities if the students are demanding evi­dence of ethical investment. 
Due to the lack of progress from the University about the ethical considerations of its investments, I decided to visit a few HEI owned properties this summer to personally inquire about the condition of their workers. I spent a week in the Los Angeles area talk­ing with workers about their jobs and the stories I heard were far more troubling than I imagined. I spoke to a worker about the missed breaks that had occurred for the last three years and she explained further that they were a result of more extensive prob­lems of staff cuts and increased work loads, all intended to increase profit. Not only was this mother of three working longer and harder under HEI management without the respite of breaks mandated by California state law, but her wages are too low to cover the cost of healthcare provided by the com­pany. She had to take on a second job work­ing nights after working long days at the hotel, hardly seeing her children and still just barely scraping by. Other workers I spoke with shared similar stories. 
These conditions are making people suffer and our University is standing by. Notre Dame prides itself on encouraging students to be involved with social justice, so we should act in accordance with our principles and set an example for others. 
Alyssa Sappenfield 
junior Oct. 5 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Wednesday, October 6, 2010 

The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, October 6, 2010 page 9 
Fit or fad? ‘Fitness shoes’ not for everyone By JORDAN GAMBLE of any walking shoe is the Scene Editor heel counter, Dieter said. This “cup” in the shoe Reebok Easy Tones promise a nice poste­that surrounds a person’s rior, Skechers Shape-Ups claim to give Joe heel has to be stiff in order to Montana better posture and myriad knock-keep the arch of the foot offs at stores like Target and Wal-Mart offer from wobbling. all the benefits at half the price. Most fitness shoes do But can so-called “fitness shoes” actually have this heel support, tone muscles on the walk to class? Dr. Reebok EasyTone Dieter said. However, in reebok.com/easytone Damian Dieter, a podiatrist at the Portage most of the designs, instabili-Foot Clinic in South Bend, has treated some $99 — $125 ty in the rest of the body of the patients who have worn the shoes and has shoe is the whole point. tried out a pair himself. For example, the Reebok Easy-Tone be the goal of any exercise routine, he said, “It’s not a cookie-cutter answer, that it’s shoes have two air chambers (what the especially just for one pair of shoes. good or really bad,” he said. commercials call “balance ball technolo­“You shouldn’t have to tell your body From working muscles to increasing cir­gy”). Dieter said the air cushion is forced what to do when you walk,” he said. culation, the benefits described in the com-from heel-to-toe, heel-to-toe, in the reverse “Walking should be like breathing. You mercials and other promotional materials direction of the force of the step, so the shouldn’t have to say to yourself, time to are mostly true, he said, but there are some wearer is constantly working against nor-breathe in now. It’s an automatic caveats. mal walking motion. response.” Dieter said people with foot problems — Dieter said he tried out the Skechers Additionally, Dieter said “rocker bottom” such as plantar fasciitis, heel spurs, Shape-Ups in a store for about 15 minutes, shoes like the Skechers Shape-Ups, with a bunions or arthritis — should be careful but did not feel stable in them. curved sole, actually shorten the wearer’s when trying out the shoes, since it might “I constantly had to hold onto something,” gait. The shoes force people to shorter, aggravate their discomfort. he said. “Now, if I wore them for a week faster steps. “If you’ve got a really whacked-out foot straight, I probably would get used to it.” “It increases blood flow just because and you think going around in these shoes, Forcing wearers to overcome that you’re walking fast,” he said. all your prayers and questions are unsteadiness is an intentional part of the But he added, “You can just do jumping answered, that’s not the case,” he said. shoes’ design, he said. jacks to get your blood flowing, too.” The most “Well, if you’re unsteady, you clench up “People that are going to go work out important part muscles,” he said. “It’s like sea legs. When with any shoe, yeah, they’re going to have you’re on a boat, the boat is constantly better circulation,” he said. moving, so even without thinking, you’re While Dieter said the instability and gait-clenching your leg muscles to stay on bal­changing aspects of these shoes will help ance, that’s why you get stronger legs.” some people with posture or circulation, The Skechers’ website rec-just wearing a different kind of footwear ommends going through won’t replace eating healthy or breaking a some warm-up and sweat. adjustment exercises “The marketing thing is that everybody when first putting on the wants to sell you something that, if you do shoes, in order to this, you don’t have to go to the gym, you adjust to the new don’t have to watch what you eat,” he said. Skechers Shape-Ups form of walking. “Everybody’s got a gimmick.” skechers.com/shapeups Re-learning how $75 — $130 to walk shouldn’t Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu  
Does Kanye West have the potential to make a bad album? “808s and Heartbreaks” was a scare, but proved its worth over the long haul. With four dynamite Mac Hendrickson albums behind him, three of Scene Writer which place on almost every American “Best of the Decade” list, Kanye West has set a high standard for himself. Nine years from now, when the idents of racial apathy, Kanye may be releases are some of the most innovative loathing and spite. umpires of musical taste come together finishing up his magnum opus to shut hip-hop tracks of the last couple of Excitement for the new album began to analyze the defining them up once and for all. If West can years. “Power,” the first single from the back in 2009 before anyone had heard a moments of the decade, outdo himself again and releases his fifth album released in June, is five minutes minute of it. Confirmed collaborations if Nov. 22 doesn’t land great album, he can storm overrated of classic bragging, soul searching and with fellow innovative producers Q-Tip, on the table early in award show acceptance speeches and spot-on self-identification. DJ Premier and Pete Rock began antici­the discussion, then interrupt public service announcements In July, West started the “GOOD Friday pation. DJ Premier expressed excite-something will have until he loses his voice. series,” releasing a new track every ment for the novelty of the material in truly gone wrong. Album release delays can be irritating Friday for eight straight weeks, ultimate-an interview, and fellow rapper Drake If the tracks released for music aficionados, and Kanye West ly collaborating with over 15 artists. speculated that the album could be one off his new album fans have had their fair share of aggra-Among the eight tracks, four crossed the of “the best hip-hop albums of the last are any 
indication vation. The numerous pushbacks of six-minute mark, six were brand new 10 years.” its quality, fans West’s fifth album have thus come as lit-concepts and three were some of West’s Early evaluation for the album is high-have nothing to tle surprise. Originally slated for a sum-best in years. “GOOD Friday,” “Monster” ly speculative, considering most tracks worry about. mer release, the album was pushed to and “Christian Dior Denim” were the have yet to see the light of day, but the In fact, while Sept. 14, and then moved again when highlights and will hopefully make their album certainly has the potential for tabloid and West announced that it would be hitting way onto the album. greatness. If Kanye West can pull off this media hounds stores “sometime in November.” Until The most promise lies in the second album, he may secure himself a slot in continue to yesterday, the date and album title were single, “Runaway,” which West pre­not only rap history, but in the pantheon portray him as unconfirmed. miered at the MTV Video Music Awards of popular music icons. the anti-Christ In a Twitter update, West revealed the in September. Last week, the final mix for interrupt-new title and official release date of Nov. was officially released for digital down-The views expressed in this column ing VMA 22. load. The song is West’s most accurate are those of the author and not a c c e p t a n c e Never mind that the new title, “My and peculiar artistic statement yet. necessarily those of The Observer. speeches and Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy,” sounds Raising a glass to “scumbags” like him-Contact Mac Hendrickson at accusing pres-like a bad manga series. The early track self, the song is the perfect mix of self­mhendri1@nd.edu 
 

SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

Wednesday, October 6, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 10 
CLUB SPORTS 

Bowling team competes in tournament in Wisconsin 
Equestrian participates in show at University of Wisconsin; Field hockey victorious in season opener; Rugby travels to IU 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame bowling team traveled to Wauwatosa, Wisc., this weekend to com­pete in the Midwest Collegiate Tournament. 
Senior co-president Drew Crail led the team in pins with 1,536 pins in nine games, followed by junior co-president Richard Skelton 1,506 pins. Both were in the top third of individual scorers for the entire tournament. 
Next up for the club is the Kegel/ISBPA Collegiate Classic Oct. 23-24 in Addison, Ill. 
Equestrian 
Competing for the first time in a new region, the Notre Dame – Saint Mary’s equestri­an club opened its season at the University of Wisconsin show. 
Amy Giordano garnered High Point Rider honors and Katie Pietrucha claimed Reserve High Point Rider. Giordano’s performance also qualified for regionals in intermediate flat. 
Notre Dame -Saint Mary’s finished as Reserve High Point team, behind the host Wisconsin club. 
Saturday’s list of outstand­ing results included Katie Walsh and Mia Genereux tak­ing first and sixth in open fences, Giordano and Pietrucha both taking first in intermediate fences and Tori Scheid and Sarah Dolton earning third and fifth, respectively, in novice fences. Genereux and Walsh also fin­ished first and third in open flat, while Giordano, Pietrucha and Mana Espahbodi stood first, second, and fourth in intermediate flat. 
Nicole Oberschmied took third in novice flat, while teammates Whitney Preisser and Natalie Stoerger tied for fourth. 
Walk -trot -canter was a clean sweep for the Irish as Katrina Stewart, first, Caitlin Harris, second and Laura Tiche, third and Patricia Walsh, third, claimed top scores. 
Highlights from Sunday’s competition included Walsh and Generux taking second and fifth in open fences, Pietrucha and Giordano fin­ishing third and fifth in inter­mediate fences, and Espahbodi, third, Sarah Lusher, fourth, and Oberschmied, fourth in novice fences. 
Points were earned in open flat, Walsh, third, Genereux, fifth, intermediate flat, Scheid, first, Petrucha, fourth, and Espahbodi, fifth; novice flat, Lusher, fourth, Oberschmied, sixth and walk­trot-canter, Catie Hradrick, first, Stewart, second, Walsh and Emma Rhoades, fifth. 
Field Hockey 
Notre Dame won its season opener against Vanderbilt 2­0, with goals scored by Maria Kosse assisted by Chrissy Affleck and Kim Weisenberger. 
The Irish dropped the sec­
ond game, 1-0, to host Kentucky. 
The team tied for second overall in the UK Invitational at Lexington. 
Sailing 
Notre Dame again split its club into three squads this weekend, entering three regattas. 
In the Pere Marquette Regatta at Marquette University, gusts up to 30 knots made conditions too windy to race Saturday. 
Three races per division were completed Sunday to meet the minimum require­ment for a regatta. Full results were not available when the Notre Dame team had to leave. 
The Irish had two berths, totaling four boats. Notre Dame skippers were Kevin Condit, Greg Torrisi, William Everage, and John Hrabick. 
Marquette, Minnesota, Northern Michigan, Iowa, Indiana, Wisconsin, UW-Milwaukee and Robert Morris also participated. At Michigan’s Cary Price Regatta, held in Ann Arbor, conditions were chilly and occasionally wet. 
Michigan, Northwestern, Western Michigan, Wisconsin, Purdue, Minnesota, Notre Dame, Ohio State and Queens took part in the regatta. 
Elizabeth Werley and Jessica Hedrich sailed in the A Division, while Emily Golden and Tom Temmerman sailed in the B Division. 
Notre Dame placed seventh of nine. The teams finished with Michigan first, followed by Minnesota, Northwestern, Purdue, Ohio State, Purdue 2, Notre Dame, Wisconsin and Queen’s. In New York City at the Jesuit Open at Fordham the breeze never exceeded 5-6 knots while there were multiple postponements as the wind shifted from the north to the west and back again within two minutes of a start. 
The Race Committee was able to complete only six races before throwing in the towel. 
Sunday was just the oppo­site as a steady northeast wind of 13 -17 knots with gusts reaching 22 greeted the sailors and continued through 14 more races until the regat­ta was called at 2:30 p.m. after one full round-robin of 20 races had been completed. 
Waves, three to four feet high, came rolling down Western Long Island Sound throughout most of the morn­ing, causing challenging con­ditions for the stalwart sailors and several capsizes. The teams finished with first Fordham, then Georgetown, Navy, NY Maritime, Notre Dame, Fordham 2, McGill, Army and Loyola. Competing for the Irish were: Notre Dame A’s: Skipper Nathaniel Walden and Crew Ali Donahue. Notre Dame B’s: Skipper Jeff Miller and Crew Natalie Fang. 
Ultimate Frisbee 
This weekend Notre Dame Ultimate hosted the 15th anniversary of its annual tournament White Smoke this weekend. 
The White Smoke tourna­ment has been held in the spring in past years, but was moved to the fall this year. This year the tournament was the biggest it had ever been with 24 male teams and 18 female teams. 
The Notre Dame men’s team split into two different squads of fairly even skill under the leadership of captains Justin Browne and Michael Della Penna to ensure equal play­ing time and to help teach some of the more inexperi­enced players. 
Both Notre Dame teams are still getting used to playing with each other and worked hard to teach the new players various aspects of the game as Notre Dame X and Notre Dame Y, went 2-5 and 4-4 respectively. 
Both teams showed deter­mination throughout the weekend with a couple of losses by only one point. In the end, both teams were sat­isfied with how the weekend wrapped up and are looking forward to continuing to develop new players, and the team as a whole, throughout the fall season. 
The Notre Dame women’s squad hosted their section of the tournament this weekend on the Saint Mary’s campus. Notre Dame again fielded two teams, which allowed return­ers and rookies alike to get lots of playing time and a great first tournament experi­ence. 
Notre Dame X, captained by senior Molly Thompson, opened the weekend with a game against eventual tour­nament champion Northwestern. Northwestern won handily, but the Notre Dame women embraced the challenge and used the game as a great introduction to competitive Ultimate. Its next game came against St. Louis University, where they also lost by a score of 8-5. The team really started improving their chemistry in the second half of the day in close losses to DePaul and Purdue. 
At one point in the Purdue game, Notre Dame X scored an upwind break and held their first lead of the year, but unfortunately they could-n’t hold onto it for the victory. On Sunday morning, the team played a hard-fought game against Wooster that ended in a 5-3 loss, but it did set them up to play their final game against Notre Dame Y. This low-key game was a great way to end the weekend and do some team bonding, and Notre Dame X used their strong deep game to pull away with a 6-4 victory. 
Thompson did a fabulous job of leading the first-time team throughout the weekend both on the off the field. Sophomores Kelsey Taylor, Andrea Scheder, and Allie Hawkins stepped up into leadership roles and new positions and also had some great defensive plays, with Hawkins along with senior Rachel Newkirk notching their first layout D’s. All of the rookies worked hard through windy playing condi­tions and the challenges of a first tournament and improved a lot. Freshman Kelsey Fink played excellent zone offense, junior Megan Dillon had some clutch catch­es, and freshman Devlin Lynch had great in cuts. 
Notre Dame Y had a similar weekend of tough losses but encouraging improvement. They lost in pool play on Saturday to Case Western Reserve, Michigan State, Truman State, and Illinois. The Truman State game was very exciting as Notre Dame Y lost by only one point. The team struggled in its early morning game on Sunday, falling to Grinnell by a score of 7-1. However, they rallied in the game against Notre Dame X,and, although they eventually lost that game also, the team regained a lot of their confidence and chem­istry. Senior captain Megan Franke led the team for the tournament and played intense defense all weekend to help get the team fired up. 
Juniors Vicke Hadlock and Ashley Satterlee stepped into new roles as handlers and had some great offensive plays, and sophomore Courtney Iversen had her first layout D. Sophomore Erinn Riley and freshman Jennifer Perugini played solid offense and defense all weekend and showed a lot of promise. Senior Kim Ford directed the tournament and did a fabu­lous job of coordinating and organizing play all weekend. Both teams were very excited about the overall success of the tournament and the great improvement they saw over the course of the weekend. 
Rugby 
The Irish left South Bend at 
6:30 a.m. Saturday to take on Indiana University in Bloomington. 
After the four-hour bus ride, the Irish stepped out onto a wet and muddy field to prepare for the match. From the opening kick, the Irish played with intensity as they sought to avenge last week’s loss. Senior center Andy Mullen was unrelenting in defense and attack until he was forced off with an injury. 
In his absence, seniors Sean Mitchell and Packy Griffin stepped up their game and ensured Indiana stayed off the board. 
Indiana won with a final score was 7-6. In the subse­quent B-side match, freshman scrum-half Byron “Kelleher” Henry led the Irish to a redemptive 14-5 victory. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't go it alone. Notre Dame hasFOR RENT NOW RENTING 2011-12 4BD/2BA many resources in place to assist Dan: “I could not answer you that Harry: “Yeah I called her up, she 
HOUSES. you.If you or someone you love question.” gave me a bunch of crap about me Dick Pepperfield: "How did you AVAILABLE NOW 4BD/2BA HOME needs confidential support or assis-——————————————— not listening to her, or something, I learn to play basketball?" FOR RENT. 1.5 miles from ND 574-STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at don’t know, I wasn’t really paying Jackie Moon: "I saw it on TV a cou­876-6333 574-876-6333 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. attention.” ple times, I thought I could do that." —————————————— ——————————————— For more information, visit ND's Ace Ventura: “Well, I'm not really ——————————————— ——————————————— IRISH CORNER APARTMENTS website at: http://pregnancysup-ready for a relationship, Lois, but The Blues Brothers: “It's 106 miles New upscale apts. Less than 1 mi port@nd.edu. thank you for asking. Hey, maybe to Chicago, we've got a full tank of from ND, next to Taco Bell on ——————————————— I'll give you a call sometime. Your gas, half a pack of cigarettes, it's SR933. number's still 911? All righty then.” Woody Allen: “I was thrown out of dark, and we're wearing sunglass-Fully furnished apts w/granite coun-Michael: “It was on company prop-——————————————— college for cheating on the meta-es.” tertops, GE appliances w/dishwash-erty with company property. So Airplane: “There's no reason to physics exam: I looked into the soul ——————————————— er. Each has 2bd/2bath. Mstr. bdrm If you or someone you care about double jeopardy, we’re fine.” become alarmed, and we hope of another boy.” w/walkin closet. has been sexually assaulted, we Ryan: “I don’t think you understand you'll enjoy the rest of your flight. ——————————————— No water/sewer bill. $1000/mo can help.For more information, visit how double jeopardy works.” By the way, is there anyone on Spaceballs: "Name's Barf. I'm a starting. Call JSK Development Notre Dame's website: Michael: “Oh, I’m sorry. What is board who knows how to fly a Mog, half man half dog. I'm my own 574-387-4466. http://csap.nd.edu ‘we’re fine?’” plane?” best friend." Tex: “Either way, whatever.” ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
PERSONAL 

Wednesday, October 6, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

No. 6 Oklahoma looks to improve in title hunt 

Associated Press 
NORMAN, Okla. — No. 6 Oklahoma has a perfect record after clearing what’s usually the toughest hurdle on its way to the Big 12 championship game and beyond. 
Still, coach Bob Stoops sees no room for his Sooners (5-0, 1-0 Big 12) to relax, even with an off week before they host Iowa State on Oct. 16. He said this week started with the team addressing “at great length” the areas where improvement is needed. 
“College guys are so young that there’s a lot of maturity and experience gained in technique work that should improve as you go through the year, and we’ve got to make it,” Stoops said Tuesday. 
“We’re a long way from a fin­ished product. Our job is to keep working it and pushing it to make that improvement, and I think we will.” 
Stoops has led Oklahoma to a 5-0 start on six other occasions, and it’s almost always been a good omen. Five of those seasons have concluded with the Sooners playing for the Big 12 title, and four times they’ve played for the national championship, too. 
Of course, making it to the halfway point of the season with­out a blemish means the Sooners have prevailed over archrival Texas, just as they did Saturday with a 28-20 win in the annual Red River Rivalry game. That’s usually an indicator that Oklahoma is on track to repre­sent the Big 12 South in the con­ference title game, although team captain Travis Lewis does­n’t want to hear that as he sees other strong teams around the league. 
“It’s not just a two-horse race anymore,” said Lewis, a line­backer. “It used to be if we beat Texas or Texas beats us, that team’s going to be in the Big 12 championship. It’s not going to be like that anymore.” 
Stoops said he sees no differ­ence in player attitudes now than in the spring and summer, when they were eager to make amends for finishing last year 8-5. 
“They’ve had an attitude that way of being hungry to improve and work, so we’ve got a lot of work ahead of us,” Stoops said. “I said that last week. The Texas game is one game. We’ve got seven conference games ahead of us, and if you don’t win those, that game doesn’t much matter.” 
Chief among the concerns for Oklahoma is a disturbing trend of poor play in the fourth quar­ter. 
Opponents are outscoring the Sooners 51-17 in the final period, with Texas becoming the latest team to mount a comeback from a double-digit deficit that came up just short. 
The Longhorns scored 10 straight points in the fourth quarter Saturday and had an opportunity to tie it when Sooners quarterback Landry Jones fumbled inside the 10-yard line. He was able to knock the ball away from Texas linebacker Jared Norton before he could scoop it up and score. 
“We’re still playing great defense 80 percent of the time and the other 20 percent we’re giving up big plays,” Lewis said. “And we’re giving up too many points in the fourth quarter. 
“It’s good to be 5-0 and have all the problems that we do.” 
The Sooners have won four of their five games by eight points or less— after leading by at least 15 points in each game. 
“I know we’re in good enough shape where it’s not fatigue. Players are just getting their eyes in the wrong places and trying to do someone else’s job, and then they hit the big play on us,” Lewis said. “It’s a discipline type of thing. We need to be more dis­ciplined in the fourth quarter.” 
Offensive coordinator Kevin Wilson said his unit also needs to do a better job of protecting— and extending—late leads. After going up 28-10 on Texas, Oklahoma totaled just one first down on its next two drives while trying to put the game away. 
“The bottom line is we’re not a tough-enough, pounding-it run­ning team where we can totally just ram it against a really out­standing defense, which they had” Wilson said. “We ran the ball well, but we ran it when we had good balance.” 
The Sooners were also at their best when using their hurry-up offense, not exactly their best weapon when trying to drain the clock. Yet Wilson said he still plans to operate at a slower pace late in games. 


AP 

Oklahoma coach Bob Stoops, speaking at the Sooners’ media day on Aug. 6, said he sees multiple things his team must improve. 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 6, 2010 
NFL 
NFLPA director Smith warns of 2011 lockout 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. — NFL Players Association executive director DeMaurice Smith sees new signs that owners are preparing for a football-free 2011. 
With support from Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers, he asked fans to take the play­ers’ side. 
Speaking at a tailgate-style fan luncheon a few blocks from Lambeau Field on Tuesday, Smith referred to a recent Sports Business Journal report that said the NFL is requiring banks that lend money to its teams to extend grace periods for loan defaults through the end of the 2011 season in the event of a lockout. 
“That to me is a step where the owners are protecting themselves in the event that there is no season,” Smith said. 
Smith said that move, along with provisions in television deals that provide for some payments even if there is a lockout, are evidence that owners are planning for the possibility that there won’t be a season in 2011. 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello noted that the players are going through the process of approving the potential decer­tification of their union, a move that could be seen as preparing for protracted nego­tiations. 
“There are many prepara­tions taking place, including the union preparing to decerti­fy and go out of business,” Aiello said. “Our focus is on negotiating a new agreement with the union. The longer it goes, the tougher it will be and we are not sure if this union plans on continuing to be a union.” 
Rodgers, the Packers’ newly elected player representative to the union, asked the crowd of about 300 fans for their sup­port. 
“We’re going to keep you guys daily on our minds and we realize how much this means, and affects not only us but this community,” Rodgers said. “We thank you for your support, and stand with us. It’s going to be a tough fight, but we’re trusting that in the end everything’s going to turn out to way it’s supposed to.” 
In a meeting Monday, Packers players voted to become the latest NFL team to give the union approval to decertify in the event of a lock­out. Decertification would give players the right to sue the NFL under antitrust laws if there is a lockout, a threat that could strengthen the players’ position in CBA negotiations. 
Smith said lawsuits have played an important role in past gains by the players, ref­erencing late Packers icon Reggie White’s role in the implementation of today’s free agency system. 
“Look, the fact is most of our fans who love this game right now believe mistakenly that free agency was a gift to the players,” Smith said. “That’s not true. Reggie White and Freeman McNeil put their careers on the line and had to sue for free agency.” 
But Smith wouldn’t say whether the union or individ­ual players currently are con­sidering a new lawsuit, or are simply relying on the threat of legal action to force owners to make concessions in negotia­tions. 
“The only thing that we will do is continue to protect our interest,” Smith said. 
Smith said players have always been willing to keep playing under an extension of the existing CBA, and reiterat­ed complaints that owners refuse to open their financial records. As the NFL’s only pub­licly owned franchise, the Packers are the only team that makes it financial information public. 
The Packers posted an oper­ating profit of approximately $9.8 million in the fiscal year that ended March 31, down from $20.1 million the previ­ous year. Taking into account investment losses that were less severe, the team reported net income of approximately $5.2 million, up from $4 mil­lion. 
“Show us the financial data that says that the National Football League is in some sort of economic (hardship),” Smith said. “And so far all we’ve heard back is from their lead negotiator, who said that’s none of our business.” 
Smith took a positive tone when he spoke about his good working relationship with NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell, but wasn’t willing to estimate how likely it was that a new deal could come together in the near future. 
“It seems to me that the greatest gift we could possibly give is a Christmas gift where we sign a new deal and tell people that football for our fans is not only going to contin­ue, but the businesses that rely on football and the jobs that this game generates are going to be secure,” Smith said. 


MLB 

Yankees set playoff rotation 
Associated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS — The New York Yankees bumped strug­gling starter A.J. Burnett to the bullpen for the AL play­offs against Minnesota. 
Game 1 starter CC Sabathia would pitch on three days’ rest if a Game 4 is nec­essary. Andy Pettitte will fol­low Sabathia and start Game 2, with Phil Hughes going in Game 3 back in the Bronx. 
The series opens at Minnesota with games on Wednesday and Thursday. 
Yankees manager Joe Girardi said he wants to throw as many lefties as he can against a Twins lineup loaded with dangerous left-handed hitters. 
“We felt with all the left-handed hitters we would try to throw four lefties at them in five games,” Girardi said. 
The Twins do have slightly better numbers this year against righties. They hit .276 with a .432 slugging percent­age and .343 on-base per­centage and went 62-44 (.585). Against lefties, they hit .268 with a .400 slugging per­centage and .336 on-base percentage while going 32-24 (.571). 
Burnett took the news in stride. He was 10-15 with a 
5.26 ERA in 33 starts this season. He hasn’t pitched in the bullpen since April 16, 2008, when he appeared for Toronto in the 14th inning against Texas. 
“It’d be different if I had a great second half,” Burnett said. “But I took baby steps, not a huge leap. Those three guys (Sabathia, Pettitte and Hughes) have been our main starters.” 
Burnett joined the Yankees as a free agent before last season, signing an $82.5 mil­lion, five-year contract. He pitched well against Minnesota in the first round of the playoffs, allowing one run and three hits in six innings during a Game 2 start. 
Girardi also decided to go with Sergio Mitre and Dustin Moseley in the bullpen over Javier Vazquez and Chad Gaudin. The manager kept outfielder Greg Golson as the final position player. 
“We really like the way (Mitre’s) sinker has been working lately and the way he has been throwing the ball,” Girardi said. 

Girardi left open the possi­bility that Burnett could start in the series if Sabathia told the Yankees that he didn’t feel good enough physically to pitch on three days’ rest. But if all goes according to plan, Burnett will remain in the bullpen. 
“I’m not going to cause drama or be the bad apple,” Burnett said. 
Girardi said all his roster decisions were difficult and he appreciated how Burnett handled the news. 
“I didn’t know how he would take it,” Girardi said. “But we talked about it and he seemed like he’s on board. He’s going to do whatever he can to help us.” 


Wednesday, October 6, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 

Brown 
continued from page 16 
would come in and that has a good command of all aspects of the game. That’s definitely the void that we had to be filled.” 
Not only has McHugh been able to take on the role Notre Dame had ready for her but she also comes with extensive experience that has prepared her well to compete at the col­legiate level. 
A Yoba Linda, Calif. native, McHugh was a member of the 2009 U.S. Youth National Team and she also played in the 2009 FIVB World Youth Championships in Thailand. On the high school stage, McHugh set a number of school records, including career leader in kills (1,019) and digs (793), and led her El Dorado High School team to league championships in 2008 and 2009. Her school’s team was ranked 40th in the nation by PrepVolleyball.com while she was named 76th on their list of Senior Aces as well as one of their 2009 All-Americans. 
“She’s a strong competitor, and she’s easy to get along with,” Brown said. “I think her teammates enjoy playing with her and she enjoys playing with them.” 
The 11-5 Irish team is a cen­tral component in McHugh’s early success, especially on the conference level where they undefeated at 4­

“She’s a strong 
0 and from The second which she has competitor, and she’s came Sept. 27 earned three easy to get after she had Freshman of the 4.17 kills/set 
along with.” 
Week honors. and 3.33 
“Every time digs/set in she’s won it, Debbie Brown Notre Dame’s obviously her conference 
Irish coach 
The first came on Aug. 30 when McHugh was given the honor after her Irish Invitational debut perform­ance. It was the first time a Notre Dame player had earned the award after the season’s 
opening week­end since Ch ristina Kaelin did in 2006. 
stats have been very good and the team has won,” Brown said. “Whenever we have the individual recognitions, it’s always because the team has done well, first and foremost. Usually with her, she’s hitting for a high percentage, she’s hitting for kills per game, she may have either aces or digs to go along with that to get the award. She is very deserving of it, but it’s something that wouldn’t happen without the team having success as well.” 
opening week­
end, and the 
third this 
week from her 13 kills and five aces against USF Oct. 1 and 19 kills on a .562 hitting percentage at Georgetown Oct. 3. 
McHugh and the Irish are back on the road this weekend, taking on Louisville Oct. 9 and Cincinnati Oct. 10, where they will hope to carry on their four-match win streak. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
Uriguen 
continued from page 16 
native, is currently ranked fourth. 
“There aren’t any bad play­ers in this tournament,” Irish coach Ryan Sachire said. “We knew going in that they were going to face top competition.” 
Despite the losses, Sachire said he feels good about the talented players moving for­ward. 
“The fall is all about devel­opment,” he said. “While we are trying to win in the fall, it is the spring when it counts the most. The goal is to get better and learn and we’re trying to apply that to our matches.” 
Irish junior Casey Watt, who also traveled to Tulsa to com­pete, will not play until the main draw begins Thursday. The top 54 players face off in the main draw, and Watt is currently 39th. 
“We expect Casey to go out and compete and see what he can do,” Sachire said. “He has really put in a lot of work and has improved a lot since the NCAA Tournament last May.” 
Sachire said he expects Watt to use his development to his advantage. 
“He’s really improved with his forehand and volley,” he said. “It’s a matter of cement­ing things in competition. He feels good and he’s going to go out and see what he can do on Thursday.” 
Following the ITA All ­American Championships, the Irish will have a break in competition until Oct. 21-25 
w hen  t he y  wil l  hos t  t he  
M id wes t  R e g i on al  
Championships.  

Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 




page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 6, 2010 
Kelly 
continued from page 16 
ing about it on Monday more so celebrating the victory.” 
The Irish didn’t play a per­fect game, Kelly said, but he saw signs that his team is improving. 
“You just need to win to cure a lot of things. But they’re very positive things,” Kelly said. “I pointed out to the offense the third quarter drive. Those are important steps forward, when you can put together 14 plays. 
“And on the defensive side 
of the ball, when you can limit a team to very minimal rushing [yards], those are good signs. So I pointed out the signs that I see that are positive towards getting this to be habit -forming. But we’re far from that yet.” 
Turnover trouble 
Despite some of the positive strides the offense made Saturday, the Irish are still turning the ball over at an alarming rate. 
In the win, sophomore quarterback Dayne Crist threw a pick, and running backs Armando Allen and Cierre Wood each lost a fum­ble. 
“How do I coach it? Well, I think first and foremost, you make sure that you’re doing the fundamentals right, so during practice, during indi­vidual, we’re making sure that we’re talking about tak­ing care of the football and doing those kinds of things,” Kelly said. “You just demand it. If it’s something that is lack of attention, if it’s lack 
of putting the ball away, we’re going to address it. 
“So we ’re pointing out things that we see that can put the ball on the ground. We’re trying to coach it dur­ing practice, and then we’re demanding it from our play­ers.” 
Fresh face 
The Irish special teams got a lift with the insertion of freshman wide receiver Bennett Jackson into the role 
of kick returner. Jackson returned four kickoffs for 111 yards Saturday, includ­ing a long of 43 yards. 
“I think certainly you have to have the right mental approach to it, that you’re going to catch it and go,” Kelly said of what it takes to be a good return man. “You can’t think a lot back there … You’ve got to hit it, and he’s got that ability where he’s a bit fearless from that stand­point. So it takes a different kind of guy to do that.” 
Jackson had made a splash in the opening win against Purdue with four tackles on kickoff coverage. Kelly has mentioned Jackson’s name in the context of potential play­ing time at receiver, and the move to return man involved the head coach feeling com­fortable with placing a starter back there, Kelly said. 
“We had to obviously move one of our starters out of a position there, so that didn’t happen until [last] Wednesday,” Kelly said of putting Jackson in the lineup. “I had not cleared that hur­dle in my own mind that I was ready to go in that direc­tion. Once we did, [Jackson] practiced at it hard on Wednesday and Thursday and was prepared for his chance on Saturday.” 
No cover jinx 
Sophomore linebacker Carlo Calabrese graced the cover of The Observer’s Irish Insider last Friday, and he backed that appearance up by leading the Irish with 10 tackles on Saturday, includ­ing one sack and 3 ½ for loss. 
He trails only fellow sopho­more inside linebacker Manti Te ’o for the team -lead in 


— is better than their record lets on. 
Bragging 
“They’re very similar to us continued from page 16 in a number of ways,” Clark 
said. “They’ve played a tough rights are on the line. This schedule just as we have. game has a derby feel, as Their record isn’t indicative Notre Dame and Indiana are of their ability. They’ve taken certainly two of the biggest some close losses, but they’re 
n a m e s  i n  t h e  a  good team.  
state.”  I  t h i n k  
T h e H o o s i e r s  I n d i a n a  c a n  
( 5 -3 -1 )  c o m e  win  a  cham- 
i n t o t h e g a m e against the Irish ( 4 -2 -3 ) w i t h a  “It’s a jolly game because both teams  pionship just a s I t h i n k N o t r e D a m e  
dominant 24-5-1  are flled with such  can.”  
lead in the all-t i m e s e r i e s ,  talented players.”  T h Hoosiers  e are  
including  a  3-0  led by junior  
v i c t o r y  o v e r  Bobby Clark  forward Will  
N o t r e D a m e  a t  Irish coach  Bruin whose  
Alumni Stadium  s e v e n  g o a l s  
last season.  and 15 points  
Clark said h e  lead  a  talent- 
b e l i e v e s  t h i s  ed roster that  

year’s Hoosier performance includes standout sophomore 
— in their first season under goalie Luis Soffrier. new head coach Todd Yeagley “There’s more to this game 
than just a rivalry,” Clark said. “It’s a jolly game because both teams are filled with such talented players.” 
Clark’s squad will head into the contest fresh off a 2-1 weekend victory over Providence. After the game, Clark expressed displeasure with his team’s defensive focus, something that he said the team would work on for future games. 
“You don’t have a ton of time between games to address these things,” Clark tackles on the season. Te’o has 64 tackles (32 solo) on the season, while Calabrese has 38 (21 solo). 
“Carlo is developing into a very solid linebacker and a consistent player for us, ” Kelly said. “He’s tackling well in space. He’s much better in 
said. “We just need to make sure that we communicate the key concepts to the play­ers.” 
The game-winning goal in the Providence game came from senior forward Steven Perry, who leads the Irish with five goals on the season. Perry also leads the Big East in game-winning goals, with three on the season. 
Clark said that although the Irish are embracing a com­plete team approach to scor­ing, Perry will need to contin­his coverage fits. That was some of our concerns. 
“I think, really, he’s just tackling better and he’s play­ing more consistent on a play-to-play basis.” 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
ue to score if the Irish are to take down top teams like the Hoosiers. 
“That’s what you look for from Perry up top,” Clark said. “It comes with the posi­tion. We’re getting better at getting the whole group involved though.” 
Perry and the rest of the Irish attack will be on display at 7 p.m. Wednesday against the Hoosiers in Bloomington. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 



Wednesday, October 6, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Wednesday, October 6, 2010 page 16 
FOOTBALL 
Back on track 
Irish look to build on momentum from win 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Writer 
After Notre Dame opened its season with a 23-12 victo­ry over Purdue on Sept. 5, Irish coach Brian Kelly noted that while his team didn’t play a perfect game, he wanted to remind his players to celebrate a victory they worked hard to earn. 
That wasn’t the case after Saturday’s 31-13 road win at Boston Colle ge snapped a three-game losing streak and improved Notre Dame to 2-3. 
“We didn ’t have to tell them to celebrate, ” Kelly said at his Tuesday press conference. “They knew it was a road victory. Any road victory is one to celebrate. But we just have so many other moving pieces that we spent most of our time talk-
COLEMAN COLLINS/The Observer 

Irish coach Brian Kelly motions from the sideline during Saturday’s road victory over Boston see KELLY/page 14 College. Kelly said that he saw much improvement from his squad on Saturday. 

MEN’S TENNIS 
Two Irish bounced in qualifier 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
Irish senior Daniel Stahl and sophomore Blas Moros fell Monday in the singles division qualifying round of the ITA All -American Championships at the Case Tennis Center in Tulsa, Okla., taking them out of the tourna­ment’s next round. 
University of Florida sopho­more Nassim Slilam eliminat­ed Stahl in straight sets (6-0, 6-0). The senior qualified for the tournament after being ranked No. 69 in the presea­son. 
After a tightly contested three-set match with Virginia standout Julen Uriguen, Moros fell 3-0 (3-6, 6-3, 6-3). He earned a berth in the tour­nament by being ranked 112th during the preseason while Uriguen, a Guatemala 
see URIGUEN/page 13 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles can’t break losing streak, fall to No. 13 Flying Dutch 
come against MIAA opponents. before the Flying Dutch went assists. end.
By ANDREW OWENS 

The No. 13 Flying Dutch on a hot streak, winning 12 of Flying Dutch star Jessica Saint Mary’s will take part in 
Sports Writer 

defeated the Belles in straight the last 19 points to complete Maier led both teams with 18 a triangular event this week-sets (25-10, 25-16, 25-15) to the set. The Flying Dutch were digs and 15 assists in the win. end against conference oppo-It was another difficult improve to 11-4 (7-1 MIAA) on again in control the entire The teams will meet again at nent Albion and Beloit College evening on the court for the the season. third set, finally finishing the Hope towards the end of the in Albion, Mich., with matches Belles as they dropped their Hope jumped out to an 8-3 Belles by a score of 25-15. season. The match will be the scheduled for 11 a.m. and 1 seventh consecutive match lead in the first set and never Junior Lindsey Stuss paced regular season finale for both p.m. The Belles last win was Tuesday against ranked con-looked back, posting a .615 hit-the Belles offense with eight the Belles and the Flying against Albion Sept. 10, a ference foe Hope College. ting percentage then and fin-kills in the match while sopho-Dutch. In order to earn a bet-trend they hope to repeat 
Saint Mary’s (3-13, 1-7 ishing with a .449 for the more Stephanie Bodien added ter seed in the MIAA tourna-Saturday. MIAA) continues to struggle match. seven kills and eight digs in the ment, the Belles will need to within its conference. Of its The Belles narrowed the losing effort. Freshman Hailee end their losing streak, which Contact Andrew Owens at last seven losses, five have deficit to 13-9 in the second set Leitz picked up a team-high 19 hopefully will come this week-aowens2@nd.edu 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Hoosier showdown looms 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
The recent creation of the Rakes of Mallow student sec­tion at Notre Dame home soccer games is a testament to the intensity of the sport 
— something that will be on display Wednesday night as the Irish travel to Bloomington to take on No. 25 Indiana with Hoosier State bragging rights on the line. 
“In Britain you call these types of games derby games,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “It’s like when Rangers takes on Celtic in Scotland or when Manchester City faces Manchester United in England. City bragging 
see BRAGGING/page 14 

ND VOLLEYBALL 

All-around freshman makes quick impact 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 

From the junior national team courts to the Purcell Pavilion to earning three Big East honors, freshman out­side hitter Andrea McHugh has made her skills known early on in her Irish career. 
“What her biggest strength is, is her ability to play the whole game,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “She’s a really good all-around player. She’s a good passer. She’s a good defender, good hitter, good server. Front and back row she does a really good job. That’s so valuable to have somebody like that on the court.” 
An outstanding player from anywhere on the court, McHugh has brought her extensive experience to Notre Dame and has proved an unstoppable force thus far. She put up a career-high 19 kills at Georgetown Oct. 3 to place her at a total 189 in 16 matches. Add in her .909 serving percentage, 18 blocks and 128 digs, and you have the versatile player Brown felt the Irish needed this season. 
“We really needed some­body who we would call a sixth rotation outside hitter,” Brown said. “Somebody that 
see BROWN/page 13 




