the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


NDholds first ShakespeareSonnetFest 
Students, faculty and staff read the Bard’s 154 poems in O’Shaughnessy 
dents over poetry,” Zomorodian

By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
said. 
News Writer 
Eighty-five total students, fac­
ulty and staff signed up to read 

Students, faculty and staff a sonnet. About half of the read aloud each of readers were students and the Shakespeare’s 154 sonnets remainder were faculty and Wednesday at the first Notre staff. The sonnets were read Dame Sonnet Fest in the Great continuously from 11 a.m. until Hall of O’Shaughnessy. around 3 p.m. 
Students passed through the “Listening to a bulk of Great Hall, stopping to grab a Shakespeare’s sonnets, poems cookie, a cup of hot apple cider or plays allows the listener time and listen to a sonnet or two. to become comfortable with the 
Maryam Zomorodian, a Ph.D. language and intention of each candidate in English, came up piece,” Scott Jackson, director with the idea for the Sonnet of Shakespeare at Notre Dame Fest last fall. and a coordinator of the Sonnet 
“I thought it would be a good Fest, said. “The goal for those opportunity [for us to] bring together faculty, staff and stu-see SONNET/page 6 




Spring Visitation weekends approach 
Event brings prospective minority students to campus in hope of drawing them to the University 
its first group of high school By MOLLY MADDEN seniors Feb. 25-28, with two News Writer more weekends in March. 
Spring Visitation is an all-

As spring slowly approach-expenses-paid visit for 225 
es, high school seniors anx-minority students to come to 
iously await their acceptance campus and experience life 
letters to the university of at Notre Dame for a weekend 
their choice. However, while in the hope they will select 
many potential Notre Dame the University as their home 
students begin to decide for the next four years. 
whether or not to make their “Spring Visitation is an 
home under the Dome, the opportunity for the 
University is reaching out to University to reach out to 
minority students in an effort highly talented minorities,” 
to bring more diversity to Spring Visitation recruitment 
campus. coordinator and senior 
Spring Visitation 2010 — Erdina Francillon said. “Our 
an event held annually for work is to specifically target 
high-talented prospective 

minority students — will host see SPRING/page 6 



Observer chooses next top editors 
Observer Staff Report 
Madeline Buckley, Laura Myers and Sam Werner have been chosen to help oversee The Observer’s editorial opera­tions in 2010-11, incoming Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber announced Wednesday. 
Buckley will assume the posi­tion of managing editor, the No. 2 spot at the paper, and Myers and Werner will serve as assis­tant managing editors. 
A junior majoring in American Studies and Spanish with a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy, Buckley will assist Gamber in managing all depart­ments of The Observer’s print and online editions. 
A native of Northbrook, Ill., Buckley lives in Breen-Phillips Hall and currently serves as News Editor. She has covered a variety of topics for The Observer, including student gov­ernment, the controversy sur­rounding President Barack Obama’s 2009 Commencement address and University President Fr. John Jenkins’ recent participation in the 2010 March for Life in Washington, D.C. 
“I have had the opportunity to 
see EDITORS/page 4 

GotDance? workshop showcases talent 
By SARAH GUNN 
News Writer 
Got Dance? — a dance work­shop featuring 15 students from Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame — will be running Thursday, Friday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in O’Laughlin Auditorium on Saint Mary’s campus. 
Indi Dieckgrafe, professor of Dance at the College, hails the show as the long anticipated reward of “demanding dance.” 
“I don’t know if people under­stand how involved this process is,” Dieckgrafe said of the prepa­ration and development of the show. 
“Got Dance?” is the culmina­tion of months of work on the part of the Saint Mary’s Dance Ensemble, faculty and many other crew members. The group has been developing the show since the second week of classes of the fall semester. Dieckgrafe said the 15 members are the “the cream of the crop.” 
The dancers in the Ensemble have collaborated with profes­sors to create the pieces for the show. 
“We work from the ground up, we have to craft it,” Dieckgrafe said. 
Some pieces are solely student choreographed. “Got Dance” will display an “eclectic, broad spec­trum” of dance styles, including 
see DANCE/page 4 



Prayercast offers homilies, liturgy 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 

Notre Dame Campus Ministry’s weekly Prayercast is approaching its three-year milestone, director of Folk Choir and Liturgy Resources Steve Warner said. 
“We got this idea about four years ago,” Warner said. “The idea was we started to hear about other places doing pod­casts. We thought this would be a great way for us to get a short broadcast every week out to both Notre Dame alums, people that are interested in the University and students that are away from the University for a period of time.” 
The first broadcast was three 
see PRAYER/page 6 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER ImproveND survey results page 3  All about ‘Parade’ page 12  Women’s basketball holds ‘Pink Zone’ game page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Thursday, February 11, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Thanks, parents 

When was the last time you called your parents or grandparents or best friend just to say, “Thank you for every­thing.” Today in my Spanish class our teacher asked what we said the last time we talked to our parents. She called on a junior boy who answered, “Gracias por mi educación.” She jok­ingly asked him why he was just thanking them for the first time in the second semester of his jun-Megan Finneran ior year, and we all laughed. Sports 

That little answer Production really got me think-Editor ing. I don’t think I ever specifically thanked my parents for putting aside hundreds of thousands of dollars for my college education and all the other things they paid for as I was growing up, as I’m sure many college students never have. I remember constantly complaining about painful nuisances like braces and dentist appointments, never thanking them for paying so I could have practically perfect teeth years later. 
When is the time to thank your par­ents for dealing with you when you were a crying baby and did nothing but scream through the night? Or when she drove you “all over God’s kingdom,” as my mom always said, so you could make it to every extracurricular your heart desired? Apologies and thankful­ness often don’t come out until it’s too late. 
How many family parties have you had to endure, or how many holidays have you had to dress up for just because your grandparents were com­ing over? I know at least for me, I would rather eat Thanksgiving in my sweatpants so I could eat as much pumpkin bread as my heart desired and not have to feel buttons digging into me. However, every year we dress up to share a meal with the grandparents we rarely see. For those of you who still have those grandparents to worry about you, pinch your cheeks, annoy you with their inability to hear during telephone conversations and the inability to even find the power button on a digital cam­era, try not to think about those times when they drive you nuts. 
Instead, think to the times when they call just to see how you are feeling, send you little care packages and how their faces light up when they see you. Give your grandma a call, and trust me, it will make her week. 
I guess the moral of the story is, call your parents and thank them. Thank them for the opportunity to be away at school, to have a dorm room to call home (whether it is cramped Morrissey or beautiful Ryan!) and to have people that love you. 
A few weeks ago a girl in my dorm found the following quote: “Today is the youngest you will ever be; live like it.” Let’s face it … none of us are getting younger, and neither are our loved ones. Appreciate every day, have fun, and never take anything, or more importantly anyone, for granted. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD HAVE ANY CONCERT COME TO ND, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 







Chase Riddle  Devin Mahon  Sara Taylor  John Wachowicz  Mike Rodio  
sohpmore  sophomore  sohpomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Keenan  Keenan  Ryan  Stanford  Keenan  
“Carrie  “Toss-up  “Lady Gaga.”  “Billy Joel.”  “The Kooks.”  
Underwood,  between Yo-Yo  
because I like  Ma and Taylor  
her body of  Swift. Toughie.”  

work.” 


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

MAGGIE O’BRIEN/The Observer Students play in the snow on South Quad Tuesday. After the winter storm Tuesday, the Michiana area had a total accumulation of 47.7 inches of snowfall throughout the winter season. 


OFFBEAT 

Mugger stole coat off back of NY woman’s terrier 
NEW YORK – A Brooklyn woman said a mugger stole a doggie coat right off the back of her mild-mannered terrier. Donna McPherson said she tied up Lexie, her 10-year-old Westie, outside a Park Slope supermarket “for two minutes” while she bought milk. She heard a “funny bark.” When McPherson went outside, she found the little white dog shivering. His green wool coat, with leather trim and belt, were nowhere in sight. 
McPherson said the dog coat was worth $25. She said that, fortunately, Lexie wasn’t wearing his pricier Burberry. 
Cafeteria worker, teen face charges for food fight 
WATERBURY, Conn. – A Connecticut school cafeteria worker and a 13-year-old girl face criminal charges after police said a food fight turned into a real fight. Waterbury police said the fifth-grader at Gilmartin Elementary School threw vegetables at 55-year-old lunch aide Rosa Robles last Thursday, and Robles responded by throwing veg­etables in the girl’s face. Police said a fight broke out when the girl punched Robles in the face. Authorities said both suf­fered cut lips, and the girl also had scratches on her face. School officials said Robles is on paid leave and the girl has been suspend­ed. 
Robles posted $500 bail after being charged with assault and other crimes. Police didn’t release the girl’s name or the charges she faces because of her age. A telephone listing for Robles could not immedi­ately be found. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Friday Saturday 



IN BRIEF 
A lecture titled “The State of the Humanities: A Discussion” will be held at 12:30 p.m. today in 339 O’Shaughnessy Hall. 
“Nuclear Alarmism From Hiroshima to Al-Qaeda” will be held at 2 p.m. The lecture will take place in 118 Nieuwland Hall today. 
A seminar titled “Public Intellectuals and National Security Policy in the Internet Era?” will be held in 119 O’Shaughnessy Hall. The semi­nar will begin at 4 p.m. today. 
“The Neoliberalization of Participatory Democracy: Grassroots Community Leaders’ Perceptions of Change and Continuity in Porto Alegre Brazil” will begin at 4:15 p.m. today. The lecture will be held in C103 Hesburgh Center. 
“Tolstoy and Shakespeare” will be held at 5 p.m. in the McKenna Hall Auditorium today. 
“Broken Embraces” will be shown in the Browning Cinema in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center today at 6:30 p.m. 
The “Bridging Majors Seminar” will be held in 135 Spes Unica today at 6:30 p.m. at Saint Mary’s College. 
“Project Pink,” Pangborn Hall’s fashion show, will be held at 7 
p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom today. 


“New Moon” will be shown at 10 p.m. in 101 DeBartolo Hall today. Admission is $3. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Sunday Monday 


Atlanta 50 / 25 Boston 35 / 26 Chicago 26 / 13 Denver 43 / 18 Houston 45 / 37 Los Angeles 61 / 49 Minneapolis 23 / 5 New York 36 / 25 Philadelphia 33 / 23 Phoenix 66 / 46 Seattle 50 /42 St. Louis 35 /17 Tampa 59 /35 Washington 34 / 24 
Thursday, February 11, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



TAP to visit, provide 


ImproveND survey a success 
free local tax assistance 

Carroll Hall wins contest for highest participation rate at 94 percent 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS 
News Writer 
In its introductory year, the ImproveND survey ended with successful participation rates, as both undergraduate and graduate students took advantage of the opportunity to provide feedback regard­ing various aspects of University life, Heather Tonk, director of Strategic Planning, said. 
“For a brand new survey of this type our goal was an overall participation rate of 50 percent,” Tonk said. “We are very excited to achieve that mark.” 
Fifty-one percent of under­graduates, 41 percent of graduate students and 58 percent of Law students par­ticipated in the survey, which will be given every two years in order to track progress over time. 
As an added incentive for completing the survey, the Office of Strategic Planning and Institutional Research 


sponsored a contest for the residence hall that achieved the highest par­ticipation, as well as individ­ual prizes from random draw­ings throughout the administra­tion period. 
“Carroll Hall won the contest for the highest 

“For a brand new 
private tour survey of this type of Notre Dame
our goal was an 
Stadium,

overall participation 
Tonk said. 

rate of 50 percent.” While the data from the survey is still 
Heather Tonk 
being ana­

director 
lyzed, the 

Strategic Planning Office of Strategi c Planning and be the first dorm to host a dance in the Purcell Pavilion.” 
Additional prizes included gift cards to the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore and local eateries, free personal training and RecSports class­es, an iPod shuffle and a 
participation rate for a dorm Institutional Research hopes at 94 percent,” Tonk said. to have the complete results ‘They won the opportunity to by late March, which they will communicate to the stu­dent body via student govern­ment. 
“Based on the results, vari­ous units will spend the sum­mer months considering action plans to address opportunities for improve­ment,” Tonk said. 
Students can expect to see concrete changes by next fall, as ideas gathered from the survey will be put into action throughout the summer. 
“Results will begin to be implemented in the fall,” Julia Sama, the administrator who coordinated the survey project, said. “Some changes may take longer than others, [but] it’s hard to predict since we have not yet analyzed all of the survey results.” 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
As April 15 looms in the not-so­distant future, students from the Tax Assistance Program (TAP) are heading into South Bend to provide free aid and tax services for low-income and disabled taxpayers in the local community. 
“Essentially, we are about pro­viding free income tax assistance to people who cannot afford to pay a professional at the same time that we provide practical and hands-on practice for students,” TAP faculty coordinator Ken Milani said. 
Nearly 100 volunteers from Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s visit nine different locations in South Bend and Mishawaka from February through April. These stu­dents file more than 3,000 tax income returns, according to Milani. 
“We clearly do something very different from a lot of other college programs when we go to the tax­payers,” Milani said. 
Bringing the service to libraries and other community centers lessens the intimidation factor and makes participating in TAP more convenient for those that need the help the most, he said. 
Milani said volunteering at TAP is “an eye-opening experience” for students. 
“The major benefits for students really focus on the practical experi­ence of working with clients in a real world situation and gaining a real understanding of what it means to be among the working poor in South Bend,” Milani said. 
Senior Caitlin Flynn is stationed at River Park Library for her sec­ond year with TAP. 
“The most awesome part of TAP is that we provide the service for free,” Flynn said. “The fee to go to a professional for this is a big deal for a lot of these people, and it is really hard when someone’s return is too complicated for what we can do.” 
To be involved with TAP, students must take a class on federal income taxes, spend the first four weeks of the spring semester in detailed training and pass an IRS exam. The students focus on learn­ing the nuances of the refunds spe­cific to the program’s low-income demographic. 
“This is a really cool volunteer opportunity,” graduate student Dana Gates said. “It is a specialized service that not many people know how to do.” 
Senior Ronnie Thompson said he is particularly excited to work on a “SWAT” team — groups of volun­teers that makes special visits to homes and hospital rooms. 
“With TAP, I am using my accounting background and class work knowledge to help others who need it,” Thompson said. 
“The most difficult part is trying to do the tax return right,” Gates said. “We get examples in class, but each person is different. We care about what we do, so we want to get it right.” 
While the program has expanded substantially since its conception in 1972, Milani would like to see an electronic sector for TAP in the future. 
TAP has successfully adapted to people’s needs over the past 30 years, Flynn said. 
“I know at this point that the amount of Spanish speakers is not a whole lot,” Thompson said. “I am only one of two at my site, so I think that the program could reach out to more students who could help with this area.” 


Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 



SGA approves three club sponsorships Wed. 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) approved three sponsorships at their meeting Wednesday night. 
Le Mans Hall Council president Maddy Peterek presented a spon­sorship request for the council’s next three events. There will be a Valentine’s Day Breakfast Thursday morning in Le Mans. 
They are also planning a Spa Day, with nail painting and other spa treatments for Le Mans resi­dents the day of the all-school for­mal, Peterek said. 
Also, on March 21 the Council will be having an all-hall Mass, and there will be refreshments to follow. SGA approved their spon­sorship for all three events. The funds will supplement what the Le Mans Hall Council has already made through fundraising. 
The Circle K Club will be send­ing members to a convention and leadership conference with all other Indiana Circle K chapters, Circle K president Megan Alexander said. 

All the members attending the conference will be returning to the club next year to bring what they learn back to the school, Alexander said. 
Their sponsorship was approved by SGA to fund the attendance of nine members to their all-inclusive conference, she said. 
The final sponsorship of the night was proposed by three clubs jointly: The Chinese Culture Club, Pacific Islander Club and the Around the World Club. They will be hosting China Night, to cele­brate the Chinese New Year, Chinese Culture Club representa­tive Joan Chen said 
The two-hour program will fea­ture dance, musical and martial arts presentations, and refresh­ments will be served. It will be held in Moreau Little Theater Sunday, Chen said. 
“It’s a good opportunity to cele­brate Chinese culture,” she said. 
SGA granted the sponsorship money. 
Procedures and rules for the next SGA elections were voted and passed at the meeting as well after a few minor changes. Campaigning for next year’s major boards will begin on Feb. 22. 

Contact Nikki Taylor at ntaylo01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 11, 2010 


Students use Rome as classroom 
STUDENT SENATE 



Senate approves printer resolution 
LaFortune Computer 
By SCOTT ENGLERT 

Complex.” 
News Writer 

The second proposal — “A Resolution Proposing a In an effort to improve the Student Medical Amnesty general well-being of stu-Policy” — aims to protect a dents, senators examined two student who is seeking help important issues during its for an injured friend. The res-Wednesday night meeting, olution is proposed by Nick passing a resolution for the Ruof, Chairman of the installation of a Committee on color printer at Residence Life. 
LaFortune and “We want to students Ruof was clear proposing a in stating the 
to feel safe and
student medical purpose of the amnesty policy. confident in calling resolution. 
Currently, emergency response “We want to there are only students to feel 
and not worry about
two color print-safe and confi­
the repercussions.” 
ers on campus dent in calling intended for emergency student use. Nick Ruof response and These are not worry 
chairman 
located in about the 
Committee on
DeBartolo Hall repercussions,” and the Ruof said. “It’s 
Residence Life 
Hesburgh not a policy Library. where kids can Realizing the need for an wander around the dorm additional printer, 22 senators drunk and seek out medical voted unanimously to pass the amnesty.” resolution — “A Resolution Debate on the resolution Proposing the Installation of a was postponed due to quo-Color Printer in the LaFortune rum. Debate will resume at a Computer Complex.” later time. 
The resolution “requests that the OIT install color Contact Scott Englert at printing solution in the senglert@nd.edu 

Dance 
continued from page 1 
tap dance, modern dance, tra­ditional Chinese dance and classical ballet, Dieckgrafe said. 
Dieckgrafe said she believes even though the collaborative effort put forth by the students and faculty is stressful, “the educational process has been great.” 
“We have to collect and look at what student pieces to bring in, and it shows the time and dedication that the students have put in,” she said. “They have been able to handle demanding schedules, tested their time management skills and tested their health by always being prepared to meet the demands of dance.” 
Jingjiu Guan, a junior at Saint Mary’s, agreed that developing the show can be a challenge. 
“The real challenge is actual­ly how to balance dance with other academic classes and other extracurricular activities because dance takes a lot of time,” Guan said. 
Guan said she spends hours a week working on dance. 
“Since I am in five pieces, I am in rehearsals for about six to seven hours a week,” Guan said. “Other than that, I also take both intermediate and advanced ballet, pointe, jazz and some ballet classes off campus. I enjoy dancing, so I really enjoy the rehearsals and classes.” 
In the show, Guan will per­form a traditional Chinese piece called “Swan Dance.” 
“I have been learning Chinese dance since I was in kindergarten because I am from China,” Guan said. 
According to Guan, studying abroad in France made her fall in love with ballet, and her time at the College has allowed her to embrace other forms of dance. 

Saint Mary’s junior Katie Brown has also put a lot of time into dancing at Saint Mary’s. Brown recognizes the work non-dancers have contributed to the performance. 
“The show takes a lot of plan­ning between getting a cast and crew together as well as figur­ing out all the technical fea­tures of the show,” Brown said. “This year for the concert, we have a number of props and set details that had to be discussed before creating.” 
Personally, Brown said she spends anywhere from six to 18 hours per week in the stu­dio. “This is a learning process,” Brown said. “The dances vary in style and tech­nique each year. It’s always nice not just for the dancers but for the audience to be exposed to these differences to learn more about the art of dance.” 
Brown agreed with Dieckgrafe — believing the experience of collaboration can be difficult, but the synergy has very positive effects. 
“Working with the students is a wonderful experience,” Brown said. “Just like in class­es, we can easily learn from one another during rehearsals. With all the hard work and the demands that come with the dance show, it is rewarding.” 
Brown said it is nice to see the rehearsal time translated onto the stage. 
“To dance on stage and to make something that was once an idea into a living truth is amazing,” Brown said. “We are not just moving on stage, we — between the dancers, lighting designers, costume crew and the rest of the dance show crew 
— are creating art.” 
Contact Sarah Gunn at sgunn01@saintmarys.edu 
Special to The Observer 
Hers is not a typical diary entry. 
“The merits of firsthand expo­sure to the art and architecture of ancient Rome are hard to articu­late, but there is something affec­tive about the experience that rais­es questions and inspires critical thought beyond a textbook read­ing,” wrote Tracy Jennings, a sen­ior classics major at the University of Notre Dame, in a journal she kept while traveling through Rome last fall. 
But it is precisely the reaction Keith Bradley, Eli J. and Helen Shaheen Professor of Classics, was hoping to evoke in his students when he took them on a weeklong trip to the ancient city as part of “Literature and Empire: The Roman Experience”—a course he taught for the first time this fall to a group of upper-level undergradu­ate and graduate students. 
Students in the seminar explored major works of literature from the Roman imperial era including such texts as Virgil’s “Aeneid,” Lucan’s “Civil War,” and Tacitus’ “Annals.” They examined the political and ideological contexts in which the works were written and how the authors expressed reactions to the harsh and repressive form of auto­cratic government that the Roman emperorship embodied. 
An ancient historian who special­izes in the social and cultural histo­ry of Rome, Bradley says he took the students to Rome so that they could see for themselves some of the ancient monuments for which Rome’s military monarchs were responsible and tour the major 



Editors 
continued from page 1 
work with so many great people at The Observer, and I look for­ward to continuing to work with everyone to put out the best paper possible,” Buckley said. 
Myers, a resident of Cavanaugh Hall, is a junior majoring in economics and the­ology with a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. She is a native of Wadsworth, Ohio, and currently serves as an Assistant Sports Editor. 
She has coordinated The Observer’s coverage of Baraka Bouts and Bengal Bouts, and her previous assignments include covering Irish men’s basketball and tennis and women’s basketball, volleyball and softball. 
“I’m excited to step into an increased role with the paper and cannot wait to get started,” Myers said. 
Werner served as an Associate Sports Editor during the fall semester and is now studying abroad in London. A native of Norwalk, Conn., Werner is a junior pursuing majors in American Studies and Arts and Letters Preprofessional and a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. 
He previously served as inter-hall editor and has covered Irish football, hockey, men’s lacrosse, volleyball and softball. 
“I am excited to take on this new position at The Observer. There are a lot of talented peo­ple on the staff who I very much look forward to working with over the coming months,” Werner said. 
Gamber will begin his duties as Editor-in-Chief on March 1, and the rest of the Editorial Board will assume their roles March 15. 
museums of Rome where repre­sentations of imperial power and magnificence are on display. Highlights included face-to-face confrontation with the Prima Porta statue of Augustus in the Vatican Museums, the great equestrian statue of the philosopher-king Marcus Aurelius in the Capitoline Museums, and the Altar of Augustan Peace in the Campus Martius, with its catalog of Augustan accomplishments that was reinscribed much later in his­tory by the new Romanizing ruler, Mussolini. 
“The idea was for the students to understand something of the topography of Rome and of what the city was like in antiquity, where all of the literary works we were studying were written or where their authors at some point lived,” Bradley explains. “And we wanted also to see as much as we could of Roman sculpture and artistic pro­ductions—mosaics and frescoes and other forms of material remains—that would help us enrich our investigation of the course’s theme.” 
Bradley also wanted the students to use what they saw during their visit as part of their individual research projects. 
Jennings, for example, was able to do research for her senior thesis on the nature of emperorship. 
“I’m investigating how the Emperor Hadrian deified an unusual number of individuals, including his lover Antinous, and how those acts reflected on his policies and the nature of the emperorship,” Jennings says. “Seeing material evidence of deifi­cation reinforced how widely accepted this practice was in the Roman Empire, which contrasts with our modern standards of monotheism and the relationship between religion and state. My experience in Rome helped me to connect the archaeological evi­dence with the literary record.” 
The trip also was valuable for Mary Clare Murphy, a Classics major whose senior thesis explores Ovid’s “Fasti.” Murphy had the opportunity to see the “Fasti Praenestini,” an ancient ceremoni­al calendar from Praeneste, just outside of Rome. 
“This is the best-preserved Roman calendar, and its text reflects Augustus’ influence not only on the calendar but on all Roman life,” Murphy says. “For example, it celebrates the anniver­sary of the dedication of Augustus’ ‘Ara Pacis,’ or Altar of Peace. I had seen the calendar before, but now, since I was familiar with Ovid’s ‘Fasti,’ I could see how similar the two were in their constant refer­ences to the Emperor Augustus.” 




World & Nation 
Thursday, February 11, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Brazil heat wave kills 32 elderly people 
BRASILIA — Thirty-two elderly people died in a southeastern Brazilian city this week because of a heat wave that has pushed temperatures to unseasonably high levels, a health official said Wednesday. 
All of the fatalities in the coastal city of Santos near Sao Paulo involved people between 60 and 90 years old with pre-existing conditions such as diabetes or hypertension, according to the health ministry in Santos. 
The first deaths were registered Monday, when the temperature in Santos reached 39 degrees Celsius (102 Fahrenheit). Temperatures were well above 30 degrees (86 F) in the following days. 

Kenya relocates thousands of animals 
SOYSAMBU — Kenyan authorities have begun a plan to restore the predator-prey balance in one of the country’s premier game parks after a recent drought — by moving thousands of zebras and wildebeests closer to the lions. 
As the sun rose over the 44,000-acre (17,800­hectare) Soysambu Conservancy on Wednesday, a herd of dozens of terrified zebras stampeded as a helicopter buzzed overhead, herding them into a funnel-like trap and into waiting trucks. After three trips, the helicopter had helped capture 88 zebras. Earlier in the week, 49 were herded. 
At the end of a three-week operation, the Kenya Wildlife Service aims to relocate 4,000 zebras from different parts of the country to Amboseli National Park. In March, after the wildebeests have finished giving birth, the service plans to move 3,000 of them to the same park. 


NATIONAL NEWS 

Snow breaks mid-Atlantic records 
WASHINGTON — Worst winter ever? The second blizzard in less than a week buried the most populous stretch of the East Coast under nearly a foot of snow Wednesday, breaking records for the snowiest winter and demoral­izing millions of people still trying to dig out from the previous storm. 
Conditions in the nation’s capital were so bad that even plows were advised to get off the roads, and forecasters were eyeing a third storm that could be brewing for next week. 
For many families, the first storm was a fun weekend diversion. People even went skiing past Washington’s monuments. But Wednesday’s blizzard quickly became a seri­ous safety concern. The Pennsylvania gover­nor shut down some highways and warned that people who drove were risking their lives. 

Air Force decertifies warheads unit 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. — The Air Force has decertified a unit responsible for maintaining an estimated 2,000 nuclear warheads at Kirtland Air Force Base in New Mexico, but top military officials won’t discuss specifics of the decision. 
Decertification means members of the 898th Munitions Squadron cannot perform their usual duties with nuclear weapons. 
Air Force officials declined to specify what that means. 
Air Force officials also declined to disclose what concerns prompted the action, but Ron Fry, a spokesman for the Air Force Materiel Command at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio, said Wednesday the move wasn’t prompted by any risk to the public. 


LOCAL NEWS 

Ind.launchesplantotrackstudentgrowth 
INDIANAPOLIS — The Indiana Department of Education will track each student’s academic growth instead of focusing on standardized tests to measure their progress and that of their schools, Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Bennett said Wednesday. 
The Indiana Growth Model will help school districts to identify which teachers and teaching methods are most effective at improving all students’ performanc­es. 
Bennett said many schools now concentrate on get­ting “bubble” students who are close to passing annu­al state tests over that hurdle, instead of spending more time and resources on those who score very low. 


IRAQ 


Iraq orders Blackwater guards out 
Mandate applies to about 250 security contractors with ties to company 
Associated Press  
BAGHDAD — Iraq has  
ordered hundreds of pri­ 
vate security guards linked  
to Blackwater Worldwide  
to leave the country within  
seven days or face possible  
arrest on visa violations,  
the interior minister said  
Wednesday.  
The order comes in the  
wake of a U.S. judge’s dis­ 
missal of criminal charges  
against five Blackwater  
guards who were accused  
in the September 2007  
shooting deaths of 17  
Iraqis in Baghdad.  
It applies to about 250  
security contractors who  
worked for Blackwater in  
Iraq at the time of the inci­ 
dent, Interior Minister  
Jawad al-Bolani told The  
Associated Press.  
Some of the guards now  
work for other security  
firms in Iraq, while others  
work for a Blackwater sub­ 
sidiary, al-Bolani said. He  
said all “concerned par­ 
ties” were notified of the  
order three days ago and  
now have four days left  
before they must leave. He  
did not name the compa­ 
nies.  
Blackwater security con-AP  
tractors were protecting In this Feb. 7, 2007 file photo, a helicopter operated by Blackwater flies over Baghdad. Iraq has  
U.S. diplomats when the ordered about 250 former and current employees of the company to leave the country.  
guards opened fire in  
Nisoor Square, a busy  required within the next  single person in Iraq,” said  Department for mishan- 
Baghdad intersection, on  10 days to register their  Xe spokeswoman Stacy  dling the evidence.  
Sept. 16, 2007. Seventeen  weapons with the Ministry  DeLuke.  The legal ruling infuriat­ 
people were killed, includ­ of Interior, al-Bolani said.  The U.S. Embassy in  ed Iraqis and Prime  
ing women and children,  Failure to do so could  Baghdad declined com- Minister Nouri al-Maliki  
in a shooting that inflamed  result in arrest, he added.  ment. The State  vowed to seek punishment  
anti-American sentiment  Based in Moyock, North  Department in Washington  for the guards.  
in Iraq.  Carolina, Blackwater is  did not immediately  Last month, U.S. Vice  
“We want to turn the  now known as Xe Services,  respond to requests seek- President Joe Biden flew to  
page,” al-Bolani said. “It  a name change that hap­ ing comment.  Baghdad to assure Iraqis  
was a painful experience,  pened after six of the secu- The Blackwater guards  the Obama administration  
and we would like to go  rity firm’s guards were  involved in the incident  to appeal the case and  
forward.”  charged in the Nisoor  said they were ambushed,  bring the guards back to  
Backlash from the  Square shooting. At the  but U.S. prosecutors and  trial.  
Blackwater shooting has  time, Blackwater was the  many Iraqis said they let  The shooting further  
been felt hardest by pri­ largest of the State  loose an unprovoked  strained relations between  
vate security contractors,  Department’s three securi­ attack on civilians using  the United States and Iraq,  
who typically provide pro­ ty contractors working in  machine guns and  leading the parliament in  
tection for diplomats, jour- Iraq.  grenades.  Baghdad to seek new laws  
nalists and aid workers.  Xe Services said the  One of the accused  that would clear the way  
Iraqi security forces have  company had no employ- guards pleaded guilty in  for foreign contractors to  
routinely stopped security  ees currently in Iraq,  the case, but a federal  be prosecuted in Iraqi  
details at checkpoints to  including with its sub- judge in Washington threw  courts. The U.S. govern- 
conduct searches and  sidiary, Presidential  out charges against the  ment rejected those  
question guards.  Airways.  other five in December,  demands in the Blackwater  
Security guards will be  “Xe does not have one,  ruling that the Justice  case.  


Ariz. girl kept in bathroom for two months 
Andrea Bass, 31, who was released The girl then rode to a coffee shop in 
Associated Press 

from custody Tuesday after posting a Scottsdale, where she asked an employ-
PHOENIX — A malnourished Phoenix $36,000 bond, did not immediately ee to call police. girl was locked in a bathroom without return a message left at her home Samudio said when police arrived at running water for two months, beaten Wednesday morning. The Maricopa the girl’s home to interview Scott Bass, with metal rods, and forced to exercise County Sheriff’s Office did not immedi-he thought the girl was still in the bath-until exhaustion because her father said ately respond to a request Wednesday to room and was “visibly surprised” when she had stolen food and cheated on a interview Scott Bass, 33, who remained he unlocked the door and she was gone. home-school test, police said Wednesday. jailed on a $45,000 bond. Inside the bathroom, police found a 5­
Scott and Andrea Bass, the 14-year-The girl escaped from the bathroom gallon bucket containing human waste old girl’s father and stepmother, were through the attic on Feb. 4 and rode her and a blanket on the floor that served as arrested Feb. 4 for investigation of child bike to a nearby movie theater, where a the girl’s bed, according to a probable-abuse, kidnapping and unlawful impris-concerned couple gave her $50. She cause statement released Wednesday. onment. then rode about 13 miles to a Phoenix Scott Bass told investigators that he 
“No one on this earth needs to be strip mall and bought water, food, a locked his daughter in the bathroom treated the way this child was treated,” backpack and clothes because she had-because she stole food from the kitchen Phoenix police Officer Luis Samudio n’t been allowed to change for weeks, and cheated on a home-school test, said. Samudio said. according to the document. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 11, 2010 

Sonnet 
continued from page 1 
attending is to shed any stereo­types they may have about the modern relevance of Shakespeare’s words, and allow themselves to experience his works as they were originally intended — by lifting them off the page and into the air.” 
Notable readers at the Sonnet Fest included University President Fr. John Jenkins, Provost Thomas Burish, Dean of the College of Arts and Letters John McGreevy, Notre Dame Chair of English, John Sitter and guest lecturer, Princeton University professor Caryl Emerson. 
McGreevy said he was one of the first to recite a sonnet. 
“I read a sonnet in the morn­ing,” he said. “[Many] different people were there from Arts and Letters. It was a lot of fun.” 
Some participants were able to choose their favorite sonnet to read, but most were assigned certain sonnets depending on 


Spring 
continued from page 1 
minority groups since there is a diversity problem on cam­pus.” 
Francillon is a member of a five-person team that spends the year recruiting minority students to Notre Dame. She and senior Kristine Yuen, jun­ior Steven Corrales and soph­omores Amanda Meza and Raymond Umipig spend much of the fall semester calling potential applicants and then the spring semester organiz­ing and participating in Spring Visitation weekends. 
“When the students come up here for Spring Visitation, we show them what Notre Dame is about,” Yuen said. “We take their schedules. 
“Scheduling was tight,” Jackson said. “Some readers requested specific sonnets, and while I tried to facilitate those requests, in the end the sched­ule was dictated by the avail­ability of each participant.” 
Jackson said Sonnet Fest was the first mass reading that Shakespeare at Notre Dame has ever attempted. He said he hopes the event will spark interest in more public readings in the community. 
“It is my hope that such a far-reaching event like this will cre­ate the possibility of future pub­lic readings of Shakespeare’s canon,” Jackson said. “The strong interest that we have received from the Notre Dame community demonstrates that we certainly have the interest to make something like that work. It might not be the son­nets [in particular,] but we will endeavor to make any selection relevant to the community that supports us.” 

Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
to go here when they are also considering schools like Harvard and Yale.” 
Meza said it’s the communi­ty spirit of Notre Dame that they hope to show to the stu­dents. 
“The way campus impacts people when they get here is crucial,” she said. “It really is the community. You can’t describe it and you have to experience it to know what it’s truly like, but it’s something that I want to give the same opportunity to others.” 
Umipig agreed, and said, “Spring Visitation is really the best opportunity we have to expose these students to what Notre Dame has to offer them.” 
All five recruitment officers believe Spring Visitation is 
necessary 
because of the 

them to the dif­ “The numbers are  lack of diversity  
f er ent de p art-m en ts , th ey meet the facul­ there but you don’t have to look at them  within the stu­d e n t body. In t he C la s s of  
ty, go to classes,  to know that diversity  2 0 13,  minori- 
Mass and multi-c u l t u r a l events.”  is a problem; all you have to do is look  ties account for 2 5 p ercent of the students.  
S  p  r  i  n  g  around and you can  “I don’t think  
Visitation suc-cess rates have been good over  see that it’s a problem.”  the diversity on c am p u s has really changed  
the  p ast  few  si nc e  I  wa s  a  
years; 51 pe r- Kristine Yuen  f r e s h m a n , ”  
cent of the stu­ senior  Francillon said.  

dents who attended last year’s visit entered Notre Dame as members of the Class of 2013. 
Corrales, who attended Spring Visitation as a high school senior, said his week­end on campus gave him a very positive outlook on a school he had previously known little about. 
“Spring Visitation changed my life,” he said. “I hadn’t been considering Notre Dame at all but once I got here that completely changed; after a few hours of being on campus I really saw myself here.” 
Francillon said it’s very common for minority students like Corrales to come to visit the University and to know very little about the school and the community. 
“In our experience, we have found that Notre Dame does not hold the same weight in the minority communities like it does in the white communi­ties,” she said. “Minorities have heard of the school but we have to give them a reason “The numbers 
are there but you don’t have to look at them to know that diversity is a problem; all you have to do is look around and you can see that it’s a problem.” 
Yuen said greater awareness needs to be raised so non-minority students have a bet­ter understanding of the issues facing Notre Dame’s lack of diversity. 
“When people use the word ‘diversity’ there is a stigma attached,” she said. “Non­minorities hear the word and don’t think that it applies to them so there is a constant challenge.” 
Francillon said the diversity situation at Notre Dame is not unique. 
“The diversity issues at Notre Dame are issues that are being faced in any area of affluence,” she said. “There needs to be recognition that this is something that requires a collective effort.” 


Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 


Prayer 
continued from page 1 

years ago on this coming Ash Wednesday, Warner said. Since then, over 200 broadcasts were produced. 
“We were committed to mak­ing sure we did it every week of the year,” Warner said. “Then we started adding extra broad­casts. For instance, we’ll have a special one coming up for Saint Patrick’s Day.” 
The Prayercasts consist of a sung responsorial psalm, Gospel of the week with an accompany­ing homily, meditation and spe­cific prayers or intentions, Warner said. 
“We have a team of about 10 homilists, Holy Cross guys — including a few guests every once in a while — that are work­ing on this,” Warner said. “We’re usually working about six weeks out to plan all of these things. Right now we’re already halfway through the Lenten season.” 
With little to no advertising, around 250,000 visitors tuned in to the 20-to 25-minute long Prayercasts in the past three 
years, with around 7,000 hits a week com­ing from 52 countries, Warner said. 
Cath erine Crecelius, a 2009 graduate and current Campus Ministry intern, listened to the program while she was abroad in Senegal. 
“It’s a way to participate in and appreciate a 

Holy Cross and Notre Dame prayer experience, even when you’re not on campus,” Crecelius said. “For me, that happened when I was in Senegal. I was liv­ing in a place where I didn’t have very much Internet access and no connection to any other Notre Dame people besides my friend Colleen who was there with me.” 
ate assistant with the Folk Choir, is the Prayercast’s producer. 
“My main job under the umbrella of working with the Folk Choir is producing the 
Crecelius said it was a nice way to relate to the Notre Dame campus while she was away. 
“I could close my eyes, lay down in my bed and kind of be brought back to an environment that made me feel safe and like I was at home,” she said. 
Crecelius said the Prayercasts 
are a way to stay connected with the campus. 
“It was really nice to have that ability to bring myself back to Notre Dame when I had been away from it and was homesick for the community,” Crecelius said. 
Besides an audio portion, the Prayercast is partnered with MassCast — a streaming video of Mass held at the Basilica assem­

“It’s a way to participate in and appreciate a Holy Cross and Notre Dame prayer experience, even when you’re not on campus,” 
Catherine Crecelius campus ministry intern 
“I like hearing what happens when everyone comes at the gospel in different ways. Every week something new comes together as a result of that.” 
Steve Warner director Notre Dame Folk Choir 
Prayercast every week,” Lewis said. “Once a month, on a Friday, we come into CoMo and we set up a portable record­ing studio, which is really high quality stuff we have now, as far as computers, software, micro­phones and things.” 
After record­ing, Lewis takes 
bled by students in Film, Television and Theatre, Warner said. 
“A 20 minute piece will proba­bly take about two to three hours to create, including the engineering of the music — that is the mixing and the master­ing of it — and that doesn’t count the hours the raw material and creates the finished product. 
“Some days it’s more work than others,” Lewis said. “Sometimes there are one-hit wonders and sometimes it takes some creative work on the com­puter and the software.” 
The Prayercast team is intro­ducing something new during Lent, Warner said. 
“We’re also going to push the envelope a little,” he said. “We’re actually going to do an audio broadcast every week of Christian mantra.” 
The mantras are to assist med­itation and deeper spiritual learning, Warner said. 
The finished Prayercasts are Warner’s favorite part of the process. 
“I really like listening to them afterwards,” he said. “I like hearing what happens when everyone comes at the gospel in different ways. Every week something new comes together as a result of that.” 
For more information, visit www.ndprayercast.org or Notre Dame’s iTunesU page. 

Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
of preparation that it takes for a homilist to actually write his own meditation,” Warner said. 
Jenny Lewis, a graduate stu­dent in sacred music and gradu­


The Observer 





Business
Thursday, February 11, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 



IN BRIEF 

American to charge $50 for standby 
DALLAS — Next time you think about flying standby on American Airlines, be prepared to give the gate agent your name and $50. 
The days of hanging around the agent’s desk, hoping for a free switch to an earlier flight are over at American for many passen­gers. 
The nation’s second-largest airline said Wednesday that starting with tickets bought on Feb. 22, only elite frequent fliers, travelers in first or business class, military personnel and people who bought pricey coach tickets will be allowed to fly standby for free. 
Everyone else switching flights on their day of travel will have to pay $50 to get a con­firmed seat. 
In announcing the change, American played down the price and said it was improving the boarding process by eliminating the gaggle of standby fliers who flock to the desk before flights. 
“On some flights we have over 100 people going standby,” and their names must be man­ually entered into the computer system, said American Airlines spokesman Tim Smith. “Because of the sheer numbers, it can be cum­bersome to get the boarding process started on time.” 

Toyota repairing 50k vehicles per day 
CHICAGO — A Toyota executive said Wednesday that dealers have so far rein­forced the sticking accelerator on more than 220,000 recalled vehicles, with repairs con­tinuing at a rate of about 50,000 vehicles a day. 
“Nothing is more important to Toyota than the safety and reliability of our vehicles, and right now we are completely focused on fix­ing the vehicles that have been affected under this recall,” Bob Carter, Toyota group vice president and general manager, said at the Chicago Auto Show. 
Some dealers have been open around the clock while others are carrying out the repairs at offsite facilities, he said. 
Carter added that the voluntary recall of the 2010 Prius and Lexus HS 250h models to update braking software, in response to complaints about braking problems, also is proceeding. 


GREECE 


Greek unions stage walkout 
Workers strike over deficit slashing measures; Greece’s fiscal problems have shaken euro 
Associated Press 

ATHENS — Greek work­ers shut down schools, grounded flights and walked out of hospitals Wednesday to protest austerity measures brought on by the nation’s staggering debt, as European leaders wran­gled over whether and how to come to the coun­try’s financial rescue. 
Greece’s prime minister headed to a European Union summit where leaders will take up the debt crisis Thursday. Greece’s fiscal problems have shaken the euro and underscored the intercon­nectedness of the global economy. 
European stocks rose on hopes for a rescue plan that might take pressure off other struggling euro-zone countries such as Portugal and Spain, but it is unclear what wealthier EU nations will do to help Greece. 
The EU’s largest economies, Germany and France, are ready to offer their support to Greece at the summit but will wait to see if other countries join the effort, a French diplomatic official said in a briefing ahead of the summit. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue, did not provide specifics. 
“Here’s the message: we are behind Greece,” the official said. “I don’t think (financial) aid needs to be extended to Greece tomorrow; I think a mes­sage needs to be given to markets that we will know how to resolve the Greek question.” 
Officials in Germany said there is no urgent need for a bailout at the moment and that “no decision on such help” is imminent. They also said EU rules prohibited them from guaranteeing anoth­er country’s debts. 
“Of course, we are run­ning through worst-case scenarios,” a German government official said on condition of anonymi­ty. “Greece has to present a credible volume of cuts. Agreement on that would be an important signal from tomorrow’s sum­mit.” 

The head of France’s national assembly, Bernard Accoyer, said that European countries must show solidarity with Greece. 
“The reality is obvious to everyone. The issue is not to let Greece go bank­rupt,” he said. 
Greece came under intense EU pressure to slash spending after it revealed a massive and previously undeclared budget shortfall last year that continues to rattle financial markets and the euro, the currency shared by 16 EU members. Its deficit spiraled to more than 12 percent of eco­nomic output — more than four times the euro-zone limit — in 2009. 
Prime Minister George Papandreou’s new gov­ernment has announced sweeping spending cuts that will freeze salaries and new hiring, cut bonuses and stipends and increase the average retirement age by two years to 63. The govern­ment also announced new taxes, which it insists will increase the burden on the rich but safeguard the poor. 
European governments, initially reluctant to help Greece out of a crisis it created itself, now appear ready to help after mar­ket concerns intensified in recent days, dragging the euro down to an eight-month low against the 
U.S. dollar and hitting stocks worldwide. 
European stocks closed up Wednesday, and the spread, or interest rate difference, between Greek and benchmark German bonds narrowed, indicat­ing that fears of Greek default in the bond mar­ket are waning. 
Stephen Lewis, an ana­lyst at Monument Securities, said financial markets “are taking it for granted that support will be forthcoming and would probably react negatively if the summit’s outcome fell short of expectations.” 



Report: Silicon Valley economy sputtering 
Associated Press 

SAN JOSE, Calif. — Silicon Valley’s economy took a big hit during the global meltdown and could have trou­ble climbing out, according to a report released Wednesday. 
The 2010 Index of Silicon Valley said the region is entering a “new phase of uncertainty” where job losses, a shrinking foreign talent pool, a drop in investments and state legislative grid­lock could put its standing as the cen­ter of technology at risk. 
The report, released annually by local nonprofit groups the Silicon Valley Community Foundation and Joint Venture, examines trends in employment, housing, education and other issues to provide a snapshot of the region’s well-being. 
“It’s a report with a lot of bad news in it. Most years, Silicon Valley has all this good news. But this year, it’s not entirely clear when the recession ends if we’re going to be able to very easily get back. That’s not a given,” said Russell Hancock, president and chief executive of Joint Venture, an alliance of business and community institu­tions. 
The report noted that the region lost 90,000 jobs from November 2008 to November 2009, and unemployment is higher than national levels. It’s also the worst in the region since 2005. 
And there are other signs of weak­ness. 
The number of patents dipped slightly in 2008, and venture capital financing, which provides money to start-ups, plunged. Office vacancy rates also were up 33 percent from 2008 to 2009, and incomes dropped 5 percent between 2007 and 2009, to $62,003. 
The authors also worried that as other areas seek to compete with Silicon Valley, including India and China, the region will have a hard time attracting top talent, particularly for science and engineering positions. The report noted high high-school dropout rates, fewer students meeting basic state college entrance requirements and persistent racial disparities in education. 

page 8 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, February 11, 2010 


Powerplantexplodesduringconstruction,safety, ‘sub-standard’ 
Associated Press 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. — The brother of one of five workers killed in an explosion at a power plant under construc­tion says his brother called the project “screwed up,” and a worker on the job the day before the explosion says safety on the job was “sub­standard.” 
The concerns about pres­sure to get the job done and safety standards at the Kleen Energy Systems plant in Middletown were raised in interviews with The Associated Press on Wednesday, and add to a growing number of questions about work conditions at the site. 
Carl Crabb told the AP that his brother, Ron, and other workers evac­uated the welding cords were strewn all over the site. 
“It was a very messy place,” Alferi said. “They didn’t hire enough laborers. The safety on the job was substandard.” 
Alferi said there was pres­sure in recent weeks to get the job done, but he described it as normal for that kind of job. He said his immediate concern was for those who lost friends and loved ones. 
The son of another worker killed said Tuesday his father was working more than 80 hours per week and felt pres­sure to finish. Robert Reardon, an attorney for a worker injured in the blast, also said workers were spending seven days a week on the project. 
“There’s no doubt my client felt he was being rushed in 
his job,” Reardon 
said Wednesday. 

building after “The word was 
“They had a lot of 
they smelled coming down 
problems. I know he
gas. He said from above, so to they made it said the job was speak, that they 
outside the had to work 
really screwed up.” 
building, but longer hours and Ron was they had to work killed. Carl Crabb on Sundays 
“Ron wasn’t victim’s brother because they too happy the were behind. He way this job made it clear to was going,” Carl Crabb said. me the pressure was on to get “They had a lot of problems. I the job done and it was daily.” know he said the job was Paul Gaskins, who was really screwed up.” working on a steam turbine at 
Crabb, who did not cite the time of the explosion, said specifics, said his brother and Tuesday that he and his col-others felt pressure to get the leagues worked 12 to 13 job done and wished he had-hours every day, but said they n’t taken the assignment. were not rushed. 
“They felt they were slip-The powerful explosion ping further behind — lot of blew apart large swaths of tension on the job,” he said. the nearly completed 620­
Tom Alferi, 58, a steamfitter megawatt Kleen Energy who worked on the plant as Systems plant as workers for recently as the day before the O&G purged a gas line explosion, said electrical and Sunday morning. The cause is 


John Edwards sex tape turned over to judge 

Associated Press 
HILLSBOROUGH, N.C. — A former aide to John Edwards turned over the now infamous sex tape to a judge Wednesday, then faced tough questions from attorneys for the ex-presi­dential candidate’s mistress who were frustrated with his changing story about where the tapes had been kept. 
On top of that, Andrew Young said Elizabeth Edwards has threatened to sue him for con­tributing to the downfall of their marriage. 
Young’s attorneys turned over several items to be placed under seal, including an origi­nal videotape marked “special” that purportedly shows John Edwards in a sexual encounter with mistress Rielle Hunter. Young also turned over a copy of the tape. 
The former Edwards confi­dant struggled to answer why he said last week that the only copies of the sex tape he had access to were in an Atlanta lockbox. 
being investigated, and authorities launched a crimi­nal investigation Monday, say­ing they couldn’t rule out neg­ligence. 
O&G Industries said in a statement Wednesday that while it is the general con­tractor on the project and a minority shareholder in the plant’s ownership, the compa­ny did not perform the major­ity of specialized work, including mechanical, electric and piping. 
Subcontractors were “required to have and adhere to their own safety plan, as well as having a safety officer 
on site,” according to the statement. 
O&G said safety personnel regularly inspected the site. An O&G spokesman said he could not comment on the complaints from some work­ers and their families. 
John Chavez, a public affairs officer for OSHA, said Wednesday he is not aware of any federal laws or regula tions that would limit the number of hours an employer can require their employee to work. 
Daniel Horowitz, a spokesman for the U.S. Chemical Safety Board, which investigates chemical disas­ters, said it was too early to tell whether fatigue is an issue because investigators have only done a handful of interviews due to a dispute with local authorities over whether they can have access to the site and investigation. But he said fatigue and per­formance issues are some­thing the agency would typi­cally look at. 
OSHA records show O&G Industries had one violation on the site after a July 2009 inspection, but it was minor and the company settled it by paying a $1,000 fine. 
Telephone messages were left Wednesday for union offi­cials were not returned. 
Middletown Deputy Fire Marshal Al Santostefano told AP that officials are close to identifying the point of origin for Sunday’s explosion at Kleen Energy Systems, and that will help them determine the cause. 
Santostefano says investiga­tors wrapped up work site around 11:30 p.m. Tuesday because of the winter storm, plan to return Thursday and might know the cause by Friday. 
Also Wednesday, Don Holmstrom, the lead investi­gator for the U.S. Chemical Safety Board, said he was concerned that employees of O&G have had unfettered access to the site and could compromise probes into the deadly blast. 
He said evidence, including a camera and a combustible gas detector, has been removed. 



Thursday, February 11, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 



Former Rep.Charlie Wilson of ‘War’fame dies at 76 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — Charlie Wilson, the fun-loving Texas congress­man whose backroom deal-making funneled millions of dollars in weapons to Afghanistan, allowing the country’s underdog muja­hedeen rebels to beat back the mighty Soviet Red Army, died Wednesday. He was 76. 
Wilson died at Memorial Medical Center-Lufkin after having difficulty breathing after attending a meeting in the eastern Texas town where he lived, said hospital spokes­woman Yana Ogletree. Wilson was pronounced dead on arrival, and the preliminary cause of death was cardiopul­monary arrest, she said. 
Wilson represented Texas’ 2nd Congressional District in the U.S. House from 1973 to 1996 and was known in Washington as “Good Time Charlie” for his reputation as a hard-drinking womanizer. He once called former congress­woman Pat Schroeder “Babycakes,” and tried to take a beauty queen with him on a 
government  trip  to  
Afghanistan.  
Wilson,  a  Democrat,  was  

considered both a progressive and a defense hawk. While his efforts to arm the mujahedeen in the 1980s were a success — spurring a victory that helped speed the downfall of the Soviet Union — he was unable to keep the money flowing after the Soviets left. 
Afghanistan plunged into chaos, creating an opening eventually filled by the Taliban, which harbored al-Qaida terrorists. 
After the Sept. 11 attacks — carried out by al-Qaida terror­ists trained in Afghanistan — the U.S. ended up invading the country it had once helped lib­erate. 
“People like me didn’t fulfill our responsibilities once the war was over,” Wilson said in a September 2001 interview with The Associated Press. “We allowed this vacuum to occur in Afghanistan and Pakistan, which enraged a lot of people. That was as much my fault as it was a lot of others.” 
His efforts to help the Afghan rebels — as well as his party­ing ways — were portrayed in the movie and book “Charlie Wilson’s War.” In an interview with The Associated Press after the book was published in 2003, he said he wasn’t worried about details of his wild side being portrayed. 
“I would remind you that I was not married at the time. I’m in a different place than I was in at the time and I don’t apologize about that,” Wilson said. 
Charles Wilson was born June 1, 1933, in Trinity. He attended Sam Houston State University in Huntsville before earning his bachelor’s degree from the U.S. Naval Academy in 1956. 
Wilson served as a Naval lieutenant between 1956-60, then entered politics by volun­teering for John F. Kennedy’s presidential campaign. He served in the Texas House and then in the Texas Senate before being elected to the U.S. House in 1972. 
“Charlie was perfect as a congressman, perfect as a state representative, perfect as a state senator. He was a per­fect reflection of the people he represented. If there was any­thing wrong with Charlie, I never did know what it was,” said Charles Schnabel Jr., who served for seven years as Wilson’s chief of staff in Washington and worked with Wilson when he served in the Texas Senate. 
As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, Wilson helped secure money for weapons that were deliv­ered to the mujahedeen by then-CIA agent Mike Vickers. The Soviets spent a decade battling the rebels before pulling the Red Army from Afghanistan in 1989. Two years later, its economy in ruins, the Soviet Union fell apart. 
Vickers, now assistant secre­tary of defense for special operations, said Wednesday that Wilson was a “great American patriot who played a pivotal role in a world-chang­ing event — the defeat of the Red Army in Afghanistan, which led to the collapse of communism and the Soviet empire.” 
Longtime friend Buddy Temple, who was with Wilson when he collapsed Wednesday, said that despite Wilson’s repu­tation as a playboy, he was serious about representing east Texas, including helping to create the Big Thicket National Preserve — almost 100,000 acres of swamps, bogs and forests. 
“Charlie was a giant. We have lost a giant. There won’t be another like him,” Temple said at a hospital news confer­ence announcing Wilson’s death. 
Wilson left politics in 1996, after he no longer found it any fun. He lobbied for a number of years before returning to Texas. In 2007, he had a heart transplant after being diag­nosed with cardiomyopathy, a disease that causes an enlarged and weakened heart. 

Schnabel said he had just been with Wilson a few weeks ago for the dedication of the Charlie Wilson chair for Pakistan studies at the University of Texas, Austin, a $1 million endowment. He said Wilson had been doing “very good” and said his former boss described himself as “a poster boy” for heart transplants. 
Ogletree said Wilson is sur­vived by his wife, Barbara, whom he married in 1999, and a sister. 


The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, February 11, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Meaghen Veselik Alicia Smith Megan Finneran Sam Stryker Kevin Baldwin Graphics Scene Andrea Arda Caitlin Ferraro Viewpoint Lauren Brauweiler 


Abroad blog! 
Hey guys! I just flew into Budapest, and boy are my arms tired! Anyway, a lot of stuff has happened over here, some interesting, some not. It’s a for­eign country though, so the prosaic details of every­day life automati-
Brooks Smith
cally take on a special signifi­cance! Buda Boy 
Anyway, here’s a quick recap of the events of the last few weeks. 
The first day I came here I went to the beautiful Holnap Szives Museum of Artistic Expressionism, named after a famous Hungarian painter. Inside were many beautiful paintings by the artist, including one very artis­tic piece of a little girl, finger to lip and clad in blue, staring over her shoulder as a Nazi tank rolled over her doll. The van Gogh influence was obvious, but not overstated. Truly Szives deserves to be better known. It was so much cooler than anything back in the United States! 
Then I went to a beautiful Hungarian restaurant, or “ristorante” (that’s the local word for such things). The Hungarians have developed an exquisite and little-known cuisine which has at its core the art of deep-frying things in the lipids of various animals. I personally enjoyed the “almas dios,” which — just like it sounds — is an apple deep-fried in the same tank as a duck liver, both presented on a white china plate with a garnish of parsley and a generous sprinkling of Black Sea salt. As the Hungarians say, “Buen provecho!” Definitely much better tasting than anything I’ve had in America. 
I closed out that whirlwind first day 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
(though I was super duper jet lagged!) with a night out at a local dance club 
— “el nicht club,” as it’s known in the local vernacular. Please believe me when I say that the partying was wilder and more fun than anything I’ve experienced in the continental 
U.S.A. And the girls are hot! Apparently my flight out of America’s Breadbasket landed right in Europe’s Meatmarket! (No pun intended.) 
Basically every day since then has been exactly the same, except it just kept getting more fun every day. The fun didn’t stop! I feel bad for those stuck in the ol’ 48 plus two, they can’t ever understand what I mean. 
Here are some more highlights of my life so far: 
Jan. 22 — I visit a national monu­ment to Hungarians who died tragi­cally in wars throughout the years. Truly a majestic setting and one which makes you reflect solemnly upon the shortness of one’s own life. Life is too short to not wring every last bit of fun out of it like water from a towel. You’re only on this earth for a short time, bra, make the most of it. Ya dig? 
Jan. 25 — Meet a beautiful Hungarian girl with blue eyes. We fall madly and passionately in love, take it back to my place, and no strings attached. Truly a majestic experience and one which makes you reflect solemnly upon the importance of uni­versal love. Life’s too short not to love other people. We’re only on this earth for a short time together, bras and bra-ettes, make the most of it. Ya dig? 
Jan. 27 — I meet my roommates. We go to local bars, buy hella drinks for everyone, and in general cement a life-long friendship which will last. As I was stone-colding brews while my bros chanted behind me, I had a majestic epiphany which made me reflect solemnly on the importance of friendship. Friendship between two people is one of the most important things there can be in this world on the long and winding road to the grave. We’re only on this chunk of space rock for a little time together, dawg, so we gots to live it up. Word to ya mama. 
Jan. 33 — First day of school! I spent an edifying day in class learn­ing all about the Hungarian language and culture. As I was learning, I had an epiphany: Hungarian culture actu­ally kinda sucks compared to American culture. In fact, most other cultures kinda suck compared to American culture, because our cul­ture is the best culture. Try telling that to some wack-ass Hungarian teacher though! I got in a fight and was escorted out of the building. How come other countries try to keep America down? I will never under­stand. 
Well, I guess my abroad blog got a little disjointed and rambling there, but I know other people like to hear about every single detail of my life, so whatever. I even got a little philo­sophical in the middle there, but sometimes that’s the way the cookie crumbles in terms of where my head’s at. Look for my next blog update 40 minutes from now! 
Brooks Smith is a junior math and English major at Notre Dame. He can be contacted at bsmith26@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



OBSERVER POLL 
Which of these is the best student government platform idea? 
Treehouse “Perspectives” series Follett textbook rental Other 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Let no man imagine that he has noinfluence. Whoever he may be, and wherever he may be placed, theman who thinks becomes a lightand a power.” 
Henry George
U.S. economist 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 
Thursday, February 11, 2009 page 11 
Praying to the god of wind and snow 
In the middle of this weekend’s bliz­zard that buried the East Coast, my 3­year old nephew (who lives in Philadelphia) left me a pointed voice­mail in my dual role as uncle and priest, the bene­fits of which he is 
Fr. Lou DelFra 
assiduously trying to figure out. Clearly, he was Faith Point eyeing up the 2 feet of snow that had already fallen in his backyard. Remember what 2 feet of snow looked like when you were 1-foot-8? Paradise! But, alas, the wind chill was negative 15 — paradise lost, or at least delayed. “Uncle Lou,” the voicemail pleaded with piqued urgency, “can you tell God or Jesus to stop the wind but not the snow. Soon. Thanks. Bye.” 
As a priest, I have an obligation to pray for intentions that people bring to me. As a priest at Notre Dame, this obligation necessarily includes 2 a.m. requests from stressed-out Dillon-ites to pass tests they haven’t studied for, and affirmatives to dates that — let’s face it 
— they have little chance at landing (but keep hoping, my fellow Big Red, miracles do happen!). It also includes annual autumn requests from plaid-panted alumni for football wins, espe­cially against ranked opponents, and grandchildren acceptances to the incoming freshmen class. And you know what? I pray for them all. (Well, almost all — one BC alum asked me to pray for a win over Notre Dame this Fall, for ecumenism’s sake, but I somehow let that one slip my list ... ) 
Who am I to judge? Especially since I throw in my own share of self-interest­ed-wishes-disguised-as-pious­approaches-to-the-Almighty — flights taking off on time, specified annoying people losing my number and e-mail, unprepared homilies making an impact, etc, etc. So, trusting fully in God’s abili­ty to sort through all our self-centered wishes and stay focused on the big pic­ture of universal salvation, I dutifully offer all these petitions up to God. But the whole process does raise the trou­bling question … 
How often do we allow our prayer to grow beyond our own grown-up version of “Can you please stop the wind but not the snow?” If I made a clear-eyed examination of my prayer, I suspect I would be a bit embarrassed to realize how much of it fits pretty snugly into the formula: “Can you please eliminate the struggles of my life, and if possible, without removing any of the upside?” 
Now, I do not wish to suggest that prayers of petition for improvement of situations in our life are invalid, or are always disguised expressions of self-centered wishes. On the other hand, I have learned this much from nearly 40 years of trying to dialogue with God: almost inevitably some of our prayers are self-centered wishes. And when they are, prayer (and, indeed, our rela­tionship with God) can become, not an intense encounter with the Other who leads us precisely beyond ourselves into love of God and neighbor. But rather, an intense encounter with Me. And Me is fairly often concerned with one thing: leading Me into ever-greater Me-ness (defined broadly as the universe, its 6.8 billion inhabitants, and all their activi­ties working together to solve my prob­lems, or at least not getting in my way of solving them). 
It’s not that the prayer “God, help me land this particular job” is not an authentic expression of an entirely valid longing. Rather, it seems that Christian prayer invites us to offer the petition within a consciousness that transcends our own personal gain. 
There is, it seems to me, an important difference between “God, help me land this job” and “God, help me to see and understand your plan and vocation for my life.” The former is often a slightly older and more complex form of “Please stop the wind but not the snow.” While the latter prayer tugs us (often not without tentativeness and fear on our part, but that’s natural) beyond our own wants and needs, and places our lives squarely in the hands of God and at the service of others. “Lord, show me what you would have of my life. Give me a life where I might find you. Lead me where my life might serve others.” The way to intensify the first type of prayer is often to repeat it more and more frequently. The way to intensify the second type of prayer is to 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Concern for human dignity lacking in porn panel 
As club leaders of the Identity Project of Notre Dame (idND), we would like to address the GRC’s recent pornography panel and viewing of “The Price of Pleasure,” which our club spon­sored along with the Theology Department. In our interactions with the GRC prior to the event, we had good reason to believe that this event would foster lively discussion about this widespread violation of human dignity, present­ing theological, Natural Law and feminist argu­ments in opposition to prevalent cultural acceptance of pornography. Unfortunately, in retrospect, this event failed to present these perspectives and address the issue of pornogra­phy appropriately (particularly due to the extremely graphic nature of the film). 
Rather than dwell on this serious misunder­standing, we would like to take this opportunity to invite you to the fifth annual Edith Stein Project (“No Man is an Island: Creature, Culture, and Community”), held this coming weekend (Feb. 12-13) in McKenna Hall. This student-organized conference offers a variety of perspectives informed by the Catholic tradition on issues of gender, sexuality and authentic personhood (the full schedule is available at http://www.nd.edu/~idnd/edithstein/sched­ule10.html). All are welcome. 
Katie Heinzen 
junior Welsh Fam 
Claire Gillen 
sophomore Welsh Fam Feb. 9 
In response to Matt Mooney’s praise of the Lenten dining hall food to come (“Say cheese,” Feb. 9), I am once again reminded of a horrible atrocity our dear dining hall commits on a weekly basis. Every day that I pass by the soup stand in North Dining Hall and spot the plac­ard listing “Texas Chili” as one of the options I cringe with dis­taste. How can it be that our dining hall, ranked one of the top in the nation, catering to students around the world, can make the appalling mistake of putting beans in Texas chili? To quote a Texas chili purist, “If you know beans about chili, you know chili ain’t got no beans.” As the official state food of Texas, it hits home when I see 
LSU 

The University’s Life Course and Aging Center has partnered with Alzheimer’s Services of the Capital Area to offer dementia care training in compliance with a new state law. 
The Louisiana 
Joanna
Legislature passed 

Zimmerman 
Senate Bill 810 in 2008, requiring all The Daily employees of adult Reveille residential care and nursing facili­ties in Louisiana to pass a training course in dementia care. 
The partnership was certified Jan. 21 and is currently the only group cer­tified in Louisiana. 
Alzheimer’s disease often has a mor-

Care training for dementia to enhance life quality of aging 
bid stigma attached to it, said Dana Territo, director of services at ASCA. 
“They deserve a quality of life like anyone else,” Territo said. 
The first training course will be held Feb. 10 in the Rosemary Conference Room at ASCA. After the first pro­gram, courses will be held quarterly. 
Workers in full-time care must have eight hours of approved training with­in 90 days. Those in maintenance positions must have four hours of training. 
The curriculum was created by Territo, psychology professor Katie Cherry and communication sciences and disorders professor Neila Donovan. 
The curriculum consists of five top­ics to be taught in eight hours — an overview of Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias, communication with persons with dementia, behavior management, promoting independence in activities of daily living and under­standing and dealing with family. 
Five million Americans suffer from Alzheimer’s disease, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. About 5 percent of people 65 to 74 and almost 50 percent of those 85 and older may suffer from the disease, according to the CDC. 
One of the goals of the program is helping the community prepare for an aging population. 
stop talking, and wait and rest in God. This alone points to the efficacy of the second! 
Such prayer, of course, requires us to relinquish a huge amount of control to God, which is precisely why it is a more difficult prayer to make. Yet, if we think about it, we cannot help but realize how much more room this type of prayer provides — both for God to act in our lives and for us to recognize God’s activity. Perhaps, if we think of prayer less as telling God a bunch of things God already knows and asking God to fix them, and more as clearing space within us for God to lead us and others to true peace, we can see the advantage of the latter prayer. The first type of prayer — “Help land me this job, date, grade, etc” — fills our heart and mind with more of us — our wants and needs. The second type of prayer — “Lead me where you will” — invites our selves to quiet down and encounter the God of Providence, who holds our entire lives in the mysterious, but gentle and loving, palms of His hands. 
Not sure how to break this to my nephew. 
This week’s Faith Point was written by Fr. Lou DelFra. Fr. Lou is the director of bible studies and chaplain to the ACE program. He can be contacted at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


A chili catastrophe 
something so iconic misrepre­sented. I’m not saying that some chilies can’t have beans, though personally why would you want miniature dirt-like globs in your chili is beyond me. I just hate that the dining hall in their attempt to add unneces­sary adjectives before their food has wronged a Texas tradition. So dear dining hall, feel free to leave the beans in, just please please please change your plac­ard. Name it New York chili, Pennsylvania chili, [insert Yankee state] chili, just not my dear ol’ Texas chili. 

McKena Kovar 
junior 
Cavanaugh Hall 
Feb. 9 
The research faculty continues to be dedicated to its goals despite budget cuts, Lilly Allen, associate director of the LCAC and associate professor in the school of social work, said. 
“What we find is that faculty is always committed to promoting educa­tion and keeping with flagship agen­das,” Allen said. “All the faculty, across the board, is working harder.” 
This column first ran in the Feb. 8 edition of The Daily Reveille, the daily newspaper serving Louisiana State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 






Scene
page 12 Thursday, February 11, 2010 

By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Assistant Scene Editor 

This weekend, Friday through Sunday, the Pasquerilla East Musical Company will be performing Jason Robert Brown’s “Parade.” The musical tells the true story of a Jewish factory superin­tendent living in Atlanta, Ga., in 1913 who was wrongly accused of raping and murdering a 13-year-old employee. “Parade” premiered on Broadway in December 1998 and was nominated for nine Tony awards, winning two of them, one for best book and the other for best score. 
The story opens up in a town called Marietta, Ga., during the Civil War, with a Confederate soldier singing to his love and the town he will be leaving behind. Suddenly, though, it is 1913, and this same soldier is now a veteran, missing a leg from his time in the war. It is the day of the Confederate Memorial Day parade. Leo Frank, a Jewish man from Brooklyn who manages a pencil factory, feels out of place, both in his town and in his marriage. He does not understand the southern way of life he is surround­ed by, but stays only for his good job and for his wife. His wife Lucille is mad that he has chosen to go into work on the holiday, hoping to have a picnic with him instead. She laments their crum­bling marriage while the parade carries on outside. 
Meanwhile, young Mary Phagan rides a trolley car to the factory so she can pick up her pay from Leo. Her friend Frankie Epps wants to take her to the picture show, but she needs to get paid and take the money home. That night, Leo is awoken by police officers that drag him to his factory to find the body of Mary Phagan, raped and murdered. Leo is arrested and slowly becomes the main suspect in the case. A trial com­mences and Leo is the scapegoat for being different. What follows is the har­rowing tale of one man’s struggle for freedom. “Parade” deals with serious issues such as race, prejudice, truth, law, love and everything else in between. It is not for the faint of heart, but holds important messages at its core. 
Everyone involved in the PEMCo. pro­duction has risen to the challenge of taking on this tough material and put together a great ensemble. All the ele­ments of the production, from the cast and the music to the set and lights, come together to create a great rendi­tion of an acclaimed show. They do not shy away from the issues of the musical, but embrace them as a part of the story. “Parade” has a grace in handling its own material, paying careful attention to the truth of this real historical event. This story that shook America almost 100 years ago is rarely talked about anymore, but deserves to never be for­gotten. “Parade” is a small reminder of our country’s past, and speaks to the way we should handle our present. 
Tickets for the show are $6 for stu­dents and $8 for the general public. Following the Sunday performance, held at 3 p.m., composer Jason Robert Brown and National Touring Cast Member Keith Byron Kirk will be hold­ing a talk with the audience. That evening at 8 p.m., Brown will also be giving a concert in the Snite Annenberg Auditorium. Tickets to this concert are $2 with a “Parade” ticket stub, or $5 for general admission. 
Performances of “Parade” are at 7 
p.m. Friday and Saturday and 3 p.m. Sunday. It will be performed in Washington Hall. Tickets are now avail­able at the LaFortune Box Office. 

Contact Maija Gustina at mgustin@nd.edu 




By STEPHANIE DEPREZ 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Scene sat down with the cast and pro­ducers of Pasquerilla East Musical Company’s (PEMCo.) annual mainstage, “Parade.” Amid a hectic dress rehearsal, last-minute tweaks and the knowl­
and Elizabeth Kuhn 
stepped away from their ensem­ble roles to sit in the audience and see their show in a new light. 
Rice and Kuhn sat in the back of the audience answering questions while making mental notes (often out loud) about what still needs to be done (“His pants are still on stage,”) and just how far it’s come (“The tree 
looks amaz­ing!”). 
“Parade” is the story of Leo Frank, a Jewish factory superin­tendent who is accused of raping and murdering one of his 13 year-old female employees. The media sensational­izes the situation, and Frank is eventually convicted. The story itself paints a very raw picture of the post-Confederate South, and the Anti-Semitism that arose during 

the trial. 

Why did you decide to do “Parade?” 
Producers: The director, Kevin Stein, came to us with the show. We knew we wanted to do something more serious than what PEMCo. has traditionally done. “The Producers” was hugely successful as a comedy, and we wanted to move the com­pany in a different direction. The story is appealing in that it’s true. It also has beau­tiful music and allows for large ensemble involvement. 
What was the biggest challenge to produc­ing this show? 
Space was an issue — finding adequate space for a cast of 45 people to rehearse. We’re no longer a permanent resident of Pasquerilla East. It was also a challenge to make sure we could find people to act and sing parts well. There aren’t many minori­ty performers that participate, even within FTT and the Opera. We needed to find someone for this student show, which we had to consider when we picked the show. It’s also been a bit of a challenge organiz­ing a visit from the composer, Jason Robert Brown. 
That’s right! The composer and lyricist Jason Robert Brown is coming to campus this weekend. How did you get him to come? 
We went to his Web site and e-mailed his publicist. What better time to try and meet these people who you won’t have access to at a later time? We’ve been plan­ning this since October. We started a dia­logue and had lots of options. When he comes, he either has to give a master class or have a concert. We figured a concert would allow the greater campus to partici­pate, like people who do music outside of PEMCo., and not just our cast. So Sunday at 8 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium in the Snite Museum, Jason Robert Brown will be performing. Tickets are $2 with your “Parade” ticket stub, or $5 without. There’s also a forum/talk back with him and Keith Byron Kirk, who was in the national touring cast and is now a gradu­ate candidate at Northwestern. 
How did you prepare before working on the show? 
We did a lot of research beforehand. 
There is a PBS documentary called “The People Versus Leo Frank,” which recently came out. We watched that as a cast. The script is very historically accurate, and there are a lot of lines that are direct quotes from the trial. All of the leads except the reporter were real people, and the reporter exists to act as a narrator, to tell the story. 
Scene also got a chance to talk to the director and cast of “Parade.” Why did your company go with “Parade”? Kevin Stein, director: “‘Parade’ is hard because of it’s music and story, and it’s really affecting. We want to stretch the muscles of this company.” 
Is there a moment in the show when you get chills and just think, “Wow!” Lucy Lavely, “Mrs. Phagan:”“In the finale, when we co-a capella. The whole ensem­ble is on stage. You can feel the presence of every character on and off stage stand­ing there as we sing the same anthem that begins the show. It’s really eerie and invig­orating, and at the same time so wonder­ful.” 
Joe Edmonds, “Leo Frank:” “The show’s anchor and what in my mind redeems it from what some may see as complete morbidity is the resilient and blooming relationship between Leo and his wife, Lucille. I am lucky enough to act opposite Carolyn Sullivan, an actor who under­stands the importance of real connection onstage, and the scene of which I am most proud is in some ways no more than that 
— two people finally and fully connecting with each other, even in the direst situa­tion imaginable.” 
What is the biggest challenge you have faced as a cast? Edmonds: “Much of what happens in this show is emotionally draining to experi­ence, both for the audience and especially for the performers who have to repeat it daily in rehearsals and in three straight performances. I left our first read-through of the entire script extremely shaken, even despite what I saw then as an inability to realize or relate to Leo’s lengthy ordeal. Our cast has done a tremendous job of fleshing out the history on which our show is based, and as such there are cer­tain ensemble scenes that just wreck me every time, that I couldn’t emotionally bracket if I wanted to.” Matt Callanan, “Britt Craig:” “The hardest part was shaving my beard.” 
Stein: “The rehearsal schedule has been long and grueling, and it hasn’t gone according to plan all the time. Our process has been to focus on the music first and learn that, and then focus on staging, then work on character. I was pushing for doing a lot of runs, and figur­ing out the flow of the show. It’s so convo­luted and it goes so fast that it was really important for the actors to understand the flow of the show. 
Edmonds: “Also, playing Leo presents a number of unique difficulties. For one, he’s a historical figure, which means that there’s a wealth of information I can use for character development but also adds for me a certain pressure to ensure that my performance is in keeping with what this real human being may have been like. At the same time, this is a fictionalized account. The Frank case was an unbeliev­ably complicated and drawn-out process that had to be trimmed down and stream­lined to fit into a 2 1/2 hour show, and as such I’ve found it more helpful as an actor to focus on the individual circumstances of each scene than the minute details provid­ed by history. And with a show as loaded as this one, even this limited focus pro­vides more than enough to latch onto.” 
What will the average Notre Dame student get out of this show? Kelly Rice, producer: “We’re getting the opportunity to tell the real story of a histo­ry tragic miscarriage of justice. We didn’t know about it ‘til we read the script. It’s cool to present it in a new way.” 
Herman: “It’s very entertaining. We won’t beat you over the head. You will enjoy yourself. People at Notre Dame don’t go to plays all the time. It’s a good thing to do on 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
Observer Graphic I ANDREA ARCHER 
The Observer 




Scene
Thursday, February 11, 2010 page 13 




By JORDAN GAMBLE 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Last summer when Pasquerilla East Music Company (PEMCo.) picked out its February show, they had some idea that the con­tent of “Parade” would spark some controversy. It takes place in 1913 Atlanta, and shows a lynch mob go after an innocent outsider from New York. 
“The play has lots of dichotomy — North versus South, Jew versus Christian, agrarian versus industry, and white versus black,” said senior Elizabeth Kuhn, one of the show’s producers. 
But when it came time to cast the show in the fall, those themes were not a problem so much as the cast list — PEMCo. had dif­ficulty finding enough stu­dents to audition for the African-American roles. 
Kuhn, senior co-producer Kelly Rice and the show’s director, Kevin Stein, went to Multicultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS) to reach out to the minority student groups on campus. With help from Toby Blake, the assistant director of MSPS, the parts were filled quickly. 
But some student leaders with MSPS objected to the secondary roles reserved for African-American actors in “Parade.” 
“Some in the African-American community, who aren’t necessarily involved in musical theatre, see that the blacks in the show are on the chain gang or even being implicated as a mur­derer. There’s this feeling that too many times African-Americans are sec­ondary characters,” Blake said. 
“So the appropriate response, it was decided from the group from PEMCo. and the group of some of the students who had some of the worries, was to get together and come up with something that was going to the last a little bit longer than just ‘Parade,’” Blake said. 
The students helped develop a workshop that would deal with the presen­tation of race in performing arts. Participants will see the same scene performed several times by actors from different racial back­grounds, and then discuss how the against-type cast­ing changed their reaction to the scene. Beyond an academic goal, Blake and the student leaders hope this will help a larger, more diverse talent pool get exposed to the opportuni­ties in performing arts at Notre Dame. 
“This is so play selections will never again be met with criticisms,” Blake said in an e-mail to The Observer. 
Junior Rachael Banks, president of the Notre Dame chapter of the NAACP, was one of the student leaders involved in the formation of the workshop. 
“It’s really important that Notre Dame works to promote the spirit of inclusion that everybody talks about but that they don’t really see in action,” Banks said. 
“PEMCo. didn’t come with purpose of breaking down barriers but that’s what it has done. We came up with a really, really constructive way to address the problem to get everybody 
— minorities, students, faculty, every­body — on board to tackle the prob­lem,” Banks said. 
Blake and Banks both said “Parade” was not an extreme example, but another part of a pattern. 
The last time there was serious dis­cussion about race and performing arts was with PEMCo’s performance of “Ragtime” in 2007. By the numbers, “Ragtime” had a diverse cast, but it raised ire because of its controversial subject matter: a racially charged story, with violent black characters and repeated use of the “n” word in the script. 
Class of 2009 graduate Kyle Carter played Coalhouse — one of the show’s leads and a black character — in “Ragtime.” 
“’Ragtime’ was actual turmoil. Ragtime was people legitimately trying to get the show shut down,” Carter said. 
To address the controversy, PEMCo. hosted a panel discussion about the show. It brought heightened debate, Carter said, but not much progress. 
“I think [the workshop] will work bet­ter because it’s the second time around. That first panel was just rough and raw because it was the first time anyone had ever done anything like that … That, I think, is where the growth has to come,” Carter said. 
“I think that this isn’t a bad thing, I think this is great, because it’s even more of a serious issue. People who were around for ‘Ragtime’ are saying, ‘Okay, we remember what happened, we’re seeing what’s happening now, let’s make this forum [the workshop] the best that it can possibly be and get literally the best dialogue possible with regard to diversity in theatre programs on campus.” 
Senior D.C. Smith, who plays several of the African-American roles in “Parade” joined PEMCo. this year and-said a play like this, because of its basis in a real historical event, needs to be true to the script. 
“If the white person being the lead is necessary — I feel like you have to do what’s best to the play,” Smith said. 
Senior Erdina Francillon is the presi­dent of Shades of Ebony, and was one of the student leaders that worked with PEMCo. She said she understood the hesitation to “break the mold” in any play with roles not written for diverse actors, but she feels that “Parade” was a poor choice of musical to perform during Black History Month. 
“People are missing the point that minorities don’t always want to play these stereotypical roles,” Francillon said. 
Francillon said she hopes that the workshop will give PEMCo. an audi­ence of more diverse students while also shaking up preconceptions about racial typecasting. 

“These communi­ties exist on campus — they’re per­forming communities … It’s the recruit­ing message [from PEMCo.] that isn’t effective,” Francillon said. 
“You can’t sit around and say ‘our club is not di verse because they don’t come to us.’ You have to ask yourself why aren’t they interested? You can’t do the same thing every year and expect things to change.” 
She pointed to her racially diverse Miami high school where she performed in a group similar to PEMCo. 
“We did ‘Fiddler on the Roof’ — a show where every character is white — with people from all backgrounds. If you say it can’t be done, you’re not try­
ing 

hard enough,” Francillon said. 
But Carter said he believes the group has tried, and succeeded, in casting minority students in significant roles. He has been in nine PEMCo. produc­tions (and played two leads), but in only two of those shows — “Ragtime” 


and “Parade” — was casting con­strained to race, he said. “It’s disconcerting to me that this is 
the only time that people wanted to talk about it. Where was this in ‘Kiss Me Kate,’ when I was the lead in a show that had nothing to with me being black?” Carter asked. 
Kelly Rice, the show’s co-producer and Carter’s 
former co­
star in “Kiss Me Kate,” said PEMCo’s tight resources are also a hindrance. 
“Groups that are student the­atre groups don’t have the reach, or the advertising capa­bilities or the time to specifical­ly go up to every single minori­ty group and say ‘Hey, we think this is great for you,’” 
Rice said. 
“We have to do the broad advertising and hope we get enough people, and in the past we have. We’ve had great talent, we always find it, and if there is a specific role that we need to fill, then we take the 
time to find it.” For students like D.C. 
Smith, who are involved in both PEMCo. and perform­ance groups in the black community, the controversy surround­ing “Parade” has been 
difficult. 
“It’s kind of sad to see these two great groups that I’m a part of, because of the play selection, be at odds,” Smith said. 
He said he hopes Monday’s workshop can help bridge the gap. “If there would be a point where these two groups could come together, 
it would broaden the options for PEMCo .,” Smith said. 
“I’m all for diversi­fying it, because I think all it 
can do is make it bet­ter.” 
The work­shop entitled, “Casting: 
Breaking the Mold” with special guest 
Keith Byron Kirk, Broad way 
actor and for­mer star of “Parade” is Monday, February 15th from 6:00 pm – 7:30 pm in DeBartolo 101. 


Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 11. 2010 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Buford and Madsen lead Buckeyes to victory 
Johnson and Joseph bring back lead for Syracuse; Dews’ buzzer shot brings Miami ahead; Fuller and Cole stop Wildcats 
combined to make six straight Joseph sealed it with two more 
Associated Press 

free throws in the final 33 sec-free throws after he was inten-
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. — Ohio onds, and No. 2 Syracuse held tionally fouled by Majok on a State didn’t need a big game off Connecticut on Wednesday breakaway with 5.8 seconds left. from Evan Turner on Wednesday night after squandering a 16­night. point lead in the second half. Miami 64, Georgia Tech 62 
The fill-ins did just fine against Jerome Dyson’s 3-pointer for After missing a chance to seal Indiana. the Huskies tied it at 65 with the win, James Dews made a 15­
William Buford scored 21 2:33 left, but Johnson put the footer at the buzzer Wednesday points and Kyle Madsen had a Orange back in front by hitting night to give Miami a victory career-high 11, leading the 13th-two foul shots with 30.4 seconds over No. 20 Georgia Tech. ranked Buckeyes to a 69-52 vic-to go. Dews missed the front end of a tory. It was so lopsided that Syracuse opened the season one-and-one with 19 seconds Hoosiers fans started leaving with 13 wins before losing to left, and Iman Shumpert sank a with approximately 11 minutes Pittsburgh. It’s the first time in layup for Tech to tie the game left — with about 5 minutes to school history the Orange have with 10 seconds to go. That go, many of the seats were had two 10-game winning capped a comeback by the empty. streaks in one season. Yellow Jackets, who trailed by 
The Buckeyes (19-6, 9-3 Big Connecticut (14-10, 4-7) 14 early in the second half. Ten) have won eight straight Big dropped to 0-6 on the road this Following a timeout, the Ten games and four in a row season and 1-5 against ranked Hurricanes moved the length of over the Hoosiers. It is Ohio teams. That lone victory was the court and Durand Scott fed State’s longest winning streak in over Texas when the Longhorns Dews, who faked out a defender the rivalry since 1968-70. were No. 1, and the Huskies are before swishing his shot. Dews 
Dallas Lauderdale matched his still looking for another signa-then leaped into a mob of jubi­career high with 14 points for ture win. lant teammates. the Buckeyes, and seniors Mark George Blaney fell to 3-4 in The Hurricanes (17-7, 3-7 Titus and Danny Peters earned place of coach Jim Calhoun, who Atlantic Coast Conference) won their 100th career wins. took a medical leave of absence for only the second time in the 
Fortunately for the Hoosiers, last month. past eight games. Georgia Tech they didn’t get a full dose of Dyson paced Connecticut with (17-7, 5-5) fell to 1-4 on the road Turner, who has already tied a 19 points and Stanley Robinson in the league, while Miami Big Ten record by winning five had 16, but only two in the sec-improved to 11-1 at home this player of the week awards this ond half. Kemba Walker added season. season. Turner spent the final 14 and Gavin Edwards 12. The Hurricanes fell behind 8­
17:25 of the first half on the The Orange seemed in com-0, then outscored Georgia Tech lead to 60-52, and Collins’ dunk cent only once during its losing bench after drawing his second mand after Jackson’s shot over 41-19 the remainder of the first made it 62-58. But Shumpert streak, but the Hawkeyes were foul and wound up with 10 Edwards gave Syracuse a 50-34 half. They won despite shooting sank two free throws with 20 sharp from the start in this one points. lead with 13:50 left. 32 percent in the second half. seconds left for Tech, then hit and never trailed. Gatens hit a 3­
Otherwise, the rout might have But the struggling Huskies Dwayne Collins had 13 points the layup for the tie. pointer less than 30 seconds into been even worse. roared back with a 14-2 run. and 11 rebounds for Miami. the game and the shots kept 
The Hoosiers (9-14, 3-8) were Dyson scored six points, drawing Adrian Thomas scored 12, all on Iowa 78. Northwestern 65 falling after that. led by freshmen Christian a key charge on Scoop Jardine to 3-pointers, and Malcolm Grant Matt Gatens scored 16 points, The Hawkeyes built a 35-22 Watford with 15 points and set up a dunk by Edwards, then had 11, all in the first half. Devan Bawinkel broke out of a halftime lead and were up by as Jordan Hulls, who had a season-converted a follow on the third Reserve Reggie Johnson added scoring slump with a season-many as 19 late in the game. high 13. Indiana has lost five try to move Connecticut within 10 points and seven rebounds in high 15 and Iowa snapped a Northwestern, sixth nationally in straight. 52-48 with 8:36 to go. 16 minutes. four-game losing streak with a 3-point field goals at 9.3 per 
The Buckeyes outscored Syracuse held the lead, but Brian Oliver scored 19 points victory over Northwestern on game, made just 3-of-12 from Indiana 40-28 in the paint and never by more than six, and off the bench for Georgia Tech, Wednesday night. long range in the first half and 18-3 off turnovers. Dyson’s 3 from the top of the key and junior Gani Lawal had 17 Aaron Fuller added 13 points finished 8-for-26. 
Ohio State opened the game by had the Huskies within 61-60 points and a career-high 18 and 11 rebounds and Jarryd Bawinkel entered the game six scoring the first nine points. with 4:06 remaining. rebounds. Teammate Zachery Cole also scored 13 for Iowa (9-minutes in and hit his first 3 at When Turner sat down, the Johnson’s soaring dunk along Peacock, a Miami native, shot 2 16, 3-9 Big Ten), which delayed the 11:51 mark to give the Hoosiers took advantage by cut-the baseline over Ater Majok put for 9 and totaled only four Northwestern’s bid for a school Hawkeyes a 17-9 lead. ting the deficit to 13-9 and even-the Orange back up 65-62, but points. record-tying 17th regular-season He then knocked down three tually 18-17 with 7:48 to go in Dyson followed with another 3 The crowd numbered less than victory. more 3s over the next 6½ min-the first half. from the left wing to tie it at 65 500, pep band included, when Michael Thompson’s 20 points utes, the last one putting Iowa 
But the Buckeyes exposed with 2:33 left. the Hurricanes took the court a led Northwestern (16-8, 5-7), up 28-18. Brennan Cougill’s 3­Indiana’s soft middle, closing the Walker then missed a 3, Dyson few minutes before tip-off. while John Shurna scored 16. No pointer from the top of the key half on a 16-3 run and shutting snared the long rebound from Despite their tradition of poor one else had more than seven capped a 7-2 run that increased out the Hoosiers for the final Joseph and missed a runner as attendance, the Hurricanes are points for the Wildcats, who fell the lead to 35-20 before 
6:07 to make it 34-20. Fourteen the shot clock was about to playing their best at home, behind by 15 in the first half and Northwestern’s Mike Capocci of Ohio State’s points in the spurt expire. where they’re 11-1. never rallied. scored on a put-back just ahead came from within 2 feet of the After a timeout, Rautins They missed their first seven Bawinkel, who had scored only of the halftime buzzer. basket. The other two were free missed a 3 off the inbounds pass, shots before Garrius Adams hit a 12 points in the previous six Northwestern got the lead throws. Jackson rebounded and Orange 3-pointer more than five minutes games, hit four of his first five 3-under double figures only once 
Indiana got as close as 44-34 coach Jim Boeheim called a into the game. A pair of 3-point-point shots and finished 5-for-8 in the second half, pulling to 40­early in the second half. Then timeout with 36.6 seconds left ers by Grant put the Hurricanes from long range. It was his first 31 on Shurna’s long 3. But Cully Ohio State went back to its origi-and 32 on the shot clock. ahead, and with a 14-3 run they game in double figures since he Payne, Gatens and Cougill nal plan. Johnson was fouled by increased the lead to 29-18. scored 11 against Prairie View answered with 3-pointers to 
It scored eight straight points Robinson as soon as play Tech went to a press in the A&M on Dec. 5. return the momentum to the in a 12-3 run from within 2 feet resumed and sank both free second half and that threw the With Bawinkel setting the Hawkeyes and the Wildcats or free throws, and when it throws to give Syracuse a 67-65 Hurricanes out of their offensive pace, Iowa made 12 of 24 3-never made another serious run. ended, Ohio State led 58-37 with lead with 30.4 seconds left. rhythm. Oliver sank a pair of 3-point shots against a team that Reserve Eric May hit a pair of just under 11 minutes to play. Joseph followed with two more pointers during a 13-2 run by entered the game leading the 3s to put the Hawkeyes up 55­
free throws with 11.5 seconds to the Yellow Jackets that cut the Big Ten in 3-point percentage 40. Cole’s three-point play ended Syracuse 72, Connecticut 67 go. Walker hit a layup to cut the deficit to 52-50. defense (.290). a 9-2 burst that made it 64-45 Wes Johnson and Kris Joseph lead back to a basket, but The Hurricanes rebuilt the Iowa shot better than 40 per-with 5:15 to play. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

$375.00 per month per person Notre Dame's website: To find what you seek in the road of When one door of happiness clos­includes utilities downstairs apart-http.csap.nd.edu life, the best proverb of all is that es, another opens, but often we
FOR SALE FOR RENT ment 2 bedroom kitchen bath livin-——————————————— which says: "Leave no stone look so long at the closed door that groom diningroom and laundry UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do unturned." we do not see the one that has room. References and lease not go it alone. Notre Dame has -Edward Bulwer Lytton been opened for us. gradrentals.viewwork.com required Please call 574-274-2110 many resources in place to assist ——————————————— Helen Keller ——————————————— ——————————————— you. If you or someone you love All men dream but not equally. ——————————————— 2 apartments available near down-needs confidential support or assis-Those who dream by night in the It is not work that kills men, it is town SB 129 N. St. Louis Blvd tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at dusty recesses of their minds wake worry. Work is healthy; you can (between Jefferson St. &amp; PERSONAL 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For in the day to find that it was vanity; hardly put more on a man than he Colfax St.) Both apartments 1000 more information, visit ND's web but the dreamers of the day are can bear. But worry is rust upon the 
Four condos for sale under SF no deposit required $350.00 per site: dangerous men, for they may act blade. It is not movement that 
$150,000. Steps to Notre Dame. person per month includes utilities If you or someone you care about http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu their dream with open eyes to make destroys the machinery, but friction. 
http://realst8.com/4-condos or call upstairs apartment 2/3 bedroom has been sexually assaulted, we it possible. Henry Ward Beecher 
574-217-4770 kitchen bath and livingroom can help. For more information, visit T.E. Lawrence 
——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNation 

NCAA Division I Men’s Indoor Track and Field Rankings 
team previous 
1  Texas A&M  1  
2  Florida State  2  
3  Florida  5  
4  Oregon  3  
5  LSU  4  
6  Nebraska  6  
7  Arizona State  8  
8  Arkansas  7  
9  Oklahoma  9  
10  Texas Tech  8  
11  Stanford  15  
12  Virginia Tech  10  
13  Indiana  17  
14  Baylor  11  
15  Penn State  15  
16  California  14  
17  Minnesota  16  
18  Auburn  13  
19  South Carolina  20  
20  New Mexico  18  
21  Kentucky  19  
22  Georgia  21  
23  Oklahoma State  22  
24  Washington State  24  
25  Arizona State  23  


NCAA Division I Women’s Indoor Track and Field Rankings 
team previous 
1 Texas A&M 1 2 BYU 3 3 LSU 4 4 Oregon 2 5 Florida 9 6 Tennessee 5 7 Clemson 7 8 Villanova 12 9 Penn State 8 10 Florida State 6 11 Arkansas 11 12 Louisville 14 13 South Carolina 10 14 Southern Illinois 22 15 Nebraska 13 16 UTEP 24 17 Auburn 17 18 Arizona 16 19 Oklahoma 15 20 West Virginia NR 21 Virginia Tech 20 22 Baylor 19 23 Washington 18 24 Indiana State 21 25 Indiana NR 


around the dial 
NBA Basketball 
Magic at Cavaliers 8 p.m., TNT 

Men’s NCAA Basketball 
St. Mary’s at Gonzaga 11 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 


Carmelo returns to help Nuggets beat Mavs 
Associated Press 

DENVER — Carmelo Anthony scored 19 points in his return from an ankle injury and the Denver Nuggets had their biggest win of the season, routing the Dallas Mavericks 127-91 on Tuesday night. 
Anthony, the NBA’s sec­ond-leading scorer, returned after missing eight consecutive games with a left ankle sprain. However, the Nuggets were without Kenyon Martin, who missed the game because of tendinitis in his left knee. 
The 36-point victory margin against a Dallas team Denver eliminated in last season’s semifinal round of the playoffs sur­passed the Nuggets’ previ­ous high of 28 points, which they achieved twice in wins against Toronto and New Jersey in November. 
Nene led Denver with 21 points, Chauncey Billups added 16 and Chris Andersen had 14 points to go with 10 rebounds. The Nuggets won at home for the 23rd time in 27 games. 
Dallas, losing to Denver for the sixth time in the last seven meetings, was led by Dirk Nowitzki, who had 17 points on 5 of 17 shooting from the floor. Jason Terry had 16 points and Josh Howard 14 for 
Dallas. 
Up by 26 at the half, the Nuggets pulled ahead 78­46, connecting on three 3s in a row, two by Arron Afflalo and the third by Anthony. 
The Mavericks tried to get back in the game with a 14-5 run but Denver answered with a 7-0 burst touched off by a pair of baskets by Anthony, pulling in front 90-60 with 
3:13 remaining in the third quarter and taking a 103-70 lead into the final period. 
At halftime, the Nuggets led 65-39. 
Dallas managed to pull to 49-35 on a three-point play by Nowitzki with 4:13 left in the second quarter but the Nuggets scored 16 of the next 20 points lead­ing up to the break. Nene had five points in the flur­ry, including a three-point play in which he muscled in a layup underhanded as Kidd grabbed his arm. Billups’ culminated the spree by hitting consecu­tive 3-pointers in the final seconds of the period. 
Notes: Hall of Fame quarterback John Elway watched the game from a courtside seat. ... The Nuggets are 21-2 when holding opponents below 100 points. ... Dallas has made a 3-pointer in 908 consecutive games. ... Dallas split its back-to­back set that began Monday with a 127-117 win at Golden State. 


IN BRIEF 

Six NHL teams to start 
2010-11 season in Europe 
NEW YORK — The NHL is sending more teams across the pond. 
The league and its players’ associa­tion announced Tuesday that six clubs will open the 2010-11 season in Europe, the fourth straight year the NHL will begin play overseas. 
The Boston Bruins, Carolina Hurricanes, Columbus Blue Jackets, Minnesota Wild, Phoenix Coyotes and San Jose Sharks will combine to play a total of six games in Europe at the start of next season. 
The Hurricanes and Wild will meet in a pair of games in Helsinki on Oct. 7-8; Columbus plays San Jose in Stockholm on Oct. 8-9; and the Bruins and Coyotes face off in Prague on Oct. 9­10. 
“We are extremely pleased that six teams — more than ever — will open their season in Europe,” NHL commis­sioner Gary Bettman said in a state­ment. 
Former Knicks star Carl Braun dies at 82 
NEW YORK — Carl Braun, who was chosen for five consecutive All-Star games as a member of the New York Knicks, died Wednesday of natural causes. He was 82. 
Braun died in Florida, the team said. He is the second former Knicks star to die in a week. Hall of Famer Dick McGuire, Braun’s teammate, passed away last Wednesday. 
“Carl Braun was the first superstar of the New York Knicks and a cornerstone of our franchise’s early success,” team presi­dent Donnie Walsh said in a statement. “Watching him play at the old Garden was a privilege for us New Yorkers in the 1940s and 50s. He is a true legend in our sport and he will be missed.” 
Braun was an All-Star from 1953-57 — he missed the 1956 game because of injury — and retired as the team’s career scoring leader with 10,449 points. He’s still in fifth place on the career list behind Patrick Ewing, Walt Frazier, Willis Reed and Allan Houston. 
Court upholds dismissal of 
suit against two Pacers 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. — The Michigan Court of Appeals has upheld a decision dismissing a law­suit by a Palace of Auburn Hills employee against two Indiana Pacers players over her injuries in a 2004 brawl. 
The court released a decision Wednesday sustaining an Oakland County judge’s decision to throw out the case against then-Pacers players Jermaine O’Neal and David Harrison and the team itself. The Nov. 19, 2004, brawl involved players and fans at a game between the Pacers and the Detroit Pistons. 
Palace worker Julie Socia was hurt when a spectator threw a chair as she was clearing a tunnel so players could leave. She said the defendants had a duty not to endanger her, while the defendants say a third party was responsible. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, February 11. 2010 
NBA 

Cavaliers look to continue streak against Magic 
Associated Press 
INDEPENDENCE, Ohio — LeBron James hopes Thursday ’s matchup with the Orlando Magic is as suc­cessful as his Super Bowl commercial with Dwight Howard. 
Cleveland, on a 12-game winning streak which is also the NBA’s longest this season, can tie the fran ­chise record with a victory in a rematch of last sea ­son ’s Eastern Conference finals. 
It won ’t be easy. The Magic entered Wednesday’s game at Chicago having won nine of their past 11. 
“They’re coming into our building, and right now we’re the best team in the NBA, ” James said. “It ’s going to be a fun one.” 
Orlando eliminated Cleveland in six games last spring, but the Cavaliers won the first meeting this season 102-93 in November. 
Thursday ’s game is the Magic ’s first trip to Cleveland this season. 
James and Howard are cordial, but not close, away from the court. The pair won Olympic gold medals two years ago and their commitment to Team USA has kept them together for quite a few summers recently. But James walked 
off the court following Orlando’s series -clinching win last season without congratulating Howard or any of his teammates. 
James said it wasn’t hard getting along with Howard during the filming of the fast-food commercial, even though the two are rivals on the best two teams in the East. 
“Business is a big part of what I do,” he said. “I don’t bring my on -court battles off the court.” 
In the spot that aired just prior to Sunday 's kickoff between Indianapolis and New Orleans, James and Howard recreated the clas­sic commercial between Michael Jordan and Larry Bird. In the original, Jordan and Bird traded crazy trick shots from inside — and outside — the gym. In the remake, James and Howard traded dunks, with Howard ultimately ripping down the backboard as glass shat ­tered around them. 
“That was so much fun to make, ” Howard wrote on his blog. “I would love to do something like that during a game.” 
He nearly did during last season’s Eastern Conference finals, when Game 1 in Cleveland was delayed for nearly 10 minutes after Howard knocked down the 24-second shot clock with a ferocious dunk. 
“I’ve broken a few rims when I was in high school,” Howard wrote, “but nothing like blowing up the back ­board.” 
The Cavaliers (42 -11) have been handling oppo ­nents throughout the first half. Cleveland will carry the NBA’s best record into the All-Star break. 
“We've been playing well,” Shaquille O’Neal said. “LeBron and I have pretty 
MLB 

Atlanta Braves hope for outfelder Damon 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA —The Atlanta Braves appear interested in adding Johnny Damon to the top of their lineup. 
The Braves have made an offer to the free-agent outfield­er, according to a person famil­iar with the negotiations. The person spoke Wednesday on condition of anonymity because no agreement had been reached. 
Atlanta’s offer is believed to be for one year and include deferred money. Damon’s agent, Scott Boras, has said he is seek­ing at least a two-year deal. 
The 36-year-old Damon hit .286 with 24 homers for the New York Yankees last season and likely would bat leadoff for the Braves. 
Atlanta added another former Yankees outfielder in December when it acquired Melky Cabrera in a five-player deal that sent right-hander Javier Vazquez to the World Series champions. 
Nate McLouth is set as Atlanta’s starter in center field, and is the probable leadoff hit­ter if the team does not add Damon or another outfielder. Matt Diaz is expected to get most of the playing time at one corner outfield spot. 
Braves manager Bobby Cox said last week he envisions Cabrera playing all three out­field spots and possibly sharing a position with Diaz. 
Cox said the team is prepared to give 20-year-old outfield prospect Jason Heyward a chance to win a starting job in right field. Heyward made only a brief appearance at Triple-A last season and has fewer than 200 at-bats above Class A. 
“Well, there’s no reason not to give him a crack at making it,” Cox said. “If he is too young, that’s fine, too. He can spend some time in Triple-A. But if we think he’s ready and he can help us, then let's go.” 
Heyward (6-foot-4, 225 pounds) has the power potential the Braves need in their out­field. He was voted baseball’s top prospect by Baseball America after hitting .323 with 17 homers and 63 RBIs at three minor league stops in 2009. 
“If he makes the team, he’s playing — lefties, righties, everybody,” Cox said. 
The Braves' willingness to give Heyward an opportunity could keep them from engaging in a bidding war for Damon. According to reports, Detroit and Tampa Bay also have inter­est. 
much the same formula: Stay dominant at home, beat teams you’re supposed to beat and play above .500 
on the road. Most of the time if you do that, things will go your way.” 
O’Neal, who has thrown a few verbal jabs at Howard in the past, could only remember winning at least 12 straight games two other times in his career. Both of those seasons ended with championships. 
“Hopefully this is deja vu of what’s to come,” he said. 
The Cavaliers acquired O’Neal over the summer for precisely these types of matchups. Howard aver ­aged 25.8 points and 13 rebounds in the East finals against Cleveland, which didn’t have a center physi­cally strong enough to con­tain him. 
So Cleveland went out and got one. 
O’Neal, who has tweaked Howard for using Shaq ’s “Superman” nickname, lim­ited Howard to 11 points and seven rebounds in the first meeting this season. The veteran O’Neal is done taking shots at Howard, even calling him one of the league’s few great centers. 
“It ’s going to be a good matchup, ” O’Neal said. “Hopefully they play me one 
on one and hopefully they let us play” 
“But it ain’t about me vs. him. I’ve played against some of the greatest guys ever and I’ve stood up (to them). If I can stand against them, I can stand against anyone.” 




Thursday, February 11, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NHL 

Wilson and Tootoo bring Nashville a win on the road 
Gagne’s overtime goal sets Flyers ahead; Blue Jackets shut out Sharks; Kunitz’s two goals bring victory for Penguins 
Rangers have scored three shot that struck Ellis and New Jersey ahead with some-The Blue Jackets, who came 
Associated Press 

goals or fewer in all but one of bounced in. what flukey goals in the open-in just 8-6-3 when leading 
NEW YORK — Rookie Colin those games. Nashville, showing no signs ing 8:01 only to see Asham and after a period, grabbed a 1-0 Wilson scored the go-ahead Wilson turned good fortune of fatigue after a 4-3 shootout Carter tie the game with goals lead on Nash's goal. While goal on a second-period power into the winning goal. loss at the New York Islanders in the first and second periods. Kristian Huselius carried the play, Dan Ellis made 37 saves Rangers defenseman Michal on Tuesday night, took a 1-0 Leighton gave Zajac a gift puck to the right dot, Nash bat-and Nashville Predators Rozsival’s clearing attempt was lead with 2:15 remaining in the 18th goal of the season 45 sec-tled for position in a physical snapped a five-game road los-knocked down by teammate first when Kevin Klein's shot onds after the opening faceoff struggle with defenseman ing streak with a 2-1 victory Ryan Callahan, and the puck from the point hit Tootoo and when he let a routine shot from Douglas Murray at the left over the New York Rangers on came to Wilson, who snapped sailed past Lundqvist. the top of the left circle dribble doorstep. Nash won out, just in Wednesday night. in a shot from the bottom of through his pads and rolls time to drop his stick on the ice 
The game was played in front the right circle at 16:10 for his Philadelphia 3, New Jersey 2 ever-so-slowly into the net. as Huselius pinpointed a pass of a surprisingly large crowd of second goal in his 12th NHL Simon Gagne scored at 3:27 Niedermayer threw a pass in that Nash simply had to redi­13,128 at Madison Square game — all this season. of overtime and the front from along the goal line rect in. Garden despite a daylong bliz-The goal came as a direct Philadelphia Flyers rallied at the 8-minute mark and the Mason was at his best in the zard. The Rangers had sold out result of 19-year-old rookie once again to beat the New puck hit off Leighton, deflected third period as the Sharks — 187 consecutive home games defenseman Michael Del Zotto, Jersey on Wednesday night. into the skates of Flyers with the Western Conference's since Oct. 31, 2005. who compounded a hooking Gagne had chances on a defenseman Kimmo Timonen best record — amped up the 
Wilson scored in the closing call against him by complain-wraparound and a shot in close and into the net. pressure. He stopped Ryane seconds of an extended power ing to the referee. The lack of before beating Martin Brodeur Asham, a former Devil, got Clowe’s shot during a wild play and helped Ellis win for discipline earned him an extra with a shot from between the the Flyers on the board less scrum in which 11 players the first time since Jan. 15 at two minutes for unsportsman-circles to give the Flyers a than a minute later when his were piled in front of the net Calgary. He was 0-3 since and like conduct, and Nashville sweep of the home-and-home shot from the right faceoff cir-early in the period. had played only once in took advantage after the series. cle deflected off New Jersey Mason received a standing Nashville’s previous eight Rangers had done a solid job in Jeff Carter and Aaron Asham defenseman Andy Greene and ovation from a crowd of 15,234 games. Jordin Tootoo also killing all but 24 seconds of the also scored for the Flyers, who zipped past Brodeur. after making a sterling glove scored for the Predators, who four-minute power play. once again rallied from a 2-0 Scott Hartnell nearly tied it save of Huskins’ jam shot with were 0-4-1 in their five previ-When Del Zotto returned to deficit to beat New Jersey for with 5 minutes left in the first 8 minutes left. ous road games. They are 3-6-the bench, he got an earful the fourth time in five meetings period, but Brodeur made a Mason added kick saves on 2 in their past 11 overall. from angry coach John this season. Michael Leighton diving glove save on the goa-shots by Clowe and Dan Boyle 
The only goal he allowed was Tortorella and spent the rest of made 21 saves. line to prevent his tap-in from and also smothered a blast by a power-play tally by Vinny the period at the far end. Zel Travis Zajac and Rob going into the net. The play Nicklas Wallin in the final min-Prospal in the second period. Zotto then slinked back to the Niedermayer scores for the was reviewed and videotape utes to preserve the shutout. The Rangers’ already strug-dressing room when the period Devils, while Brodeur made 13 didn't help Hartnell. gling offense was dealt another was over. saves. Carter, whose hit on Anssi Pittsburgh 3, New York blow when leading scorer Del Zotto was back on the ice With both teams already in Salmela on Monday gave the Islanders 1 Marian Gaborik was forced to in the opening minute of the Newark, a winter storm that Devils’ defenseman a concus-Evgeni Malkin took advan­sit out because of a cut on his third. dumped a least a foot of snow sion, tied the game with about tage of a couple of favorable right leg sustained Tuesday in Lundqvist made 34 saves. could not prevent the game 6 minutes left in the second bounces to score a goal and set practice when he made contact New York had gotten even at from going on, attracting an period. Danny Briere sent a up one of Chris Kunitz’s two with goalie Henrik Lundqvist’s 9:48 when Prospal scored dur-announced crowd of 5,580 that cross-ice pass entering the goals and the Pittsburgh skate. ing the Rangers’ two-man looked smaller. Devils zone and Carter got his Penguins bounced back from a 
Gaborik is day to day, and the advantage. Olli Jokinen, shortly For the second time in three 24th of the season with a shot pair of road losses to beat the Rangers hope the Slovak after he made a deft play at the nights in the home-and-home from the left circle. New York Islanders on Olympian will play Friday at blue line to keep the puck in series, the Devils took a 2-0 Devils and U.S. Olympic for-Wednesday night. Pittsburgh. New York is 2-8 in the zone, fired wide of the net. lead only to see the Flyers ward Zach Parise missed his With Kunitz scoring his first its past 10 and has dropped The puck caromed hard off the come back to tie the game first game of the season with two goals since Dec. 29, the below the playoff cutoff in the end boards and came to entering the third period. an undisclosed upper-body Penguins shook off a 5-4 loss Eastern Conference. The Prospal at the right post for a Zajac and Niedermayer put injury. Sunday to Washington in which 
they couldn’t hold a 4-1 lead to Columbus 3, San Jose 0 win their seventh in a row at 
Steve Mason made 40 saves home against the Islanders. for his second shutout in three New York lost its eighth in nine games since a coaching change games as Marc-Andre Fleury and the Columbus Blue Jackets turned aside 37 of 38 shots. beat San Jose on Wednesday Malkin, one of five Penguins night, ending the Sharks’ road players headed to the Olympics winning streak at nine games. next week, repeatedly showed 
With the victory, interim Blue off some fancy stickwork — Jackets coach Claude Noel and, for a brief moment, it improved to 3-0 since taking looked as if he might fight over for the fired Ken defenseman Freddy Meyer on a Hitchcock on Feb. 3. play in which both were sent 
Rick Nash scored his 26th off for roughing. goal, Jake Voracek ended a Late in the first period, long scoring drought, and Malkin bounced the puck off Antoine Vermette added an the end of his stick yo-yo like empty-netter for the Blue as he tried to keep his balance Jackets. while skating toward the net 
The shutout was Mason’s and managed to get off a shot, fourth of the season and raised although it didn't go in. Malkin his franchise record to 14. He had better luck in the second led the league in shutouts as a period. rookie a year ago with 10, but Malkin, who scored three has been near the bottom in goals during the Penguins' 6-4 goaltending stats for most of win over the Islanders on Jan. this season. He has stopped 90 19, skated hard down the left of 91 shots he’s faced in the wing boards near the midpoint Blue Jackets’ three-game win-of the period and threw the ning streak. puck toward Kunitz. 
In the only game with Noel Defenseman Mark Streit got his behind the bench that Mason stuck on the puck, but it didn’t have a shutout, he didn’t deflected directly to Kunitz for allow a goal until there were his seventh goal. Kunitz played just 46 seconds left in a 2-1 his second game after missing victory over Dallas. 15 games with an abdominal 
Voracek broke a 26-game injury. goal drought when he made it Later in the period, Malkin 2-0 at 8:40 of the second peri-won a faceoff in the Islanders' od. A 2-on-1 rush began when zone. Sergei Gonchar’s shot — a San Jose pass went off Raffi though it may have been a pass Torres’ skate and ricocheted to in disguise — was redirected mid-ice. Derick Brassard feath-by Malkin off the heel of his ered a pass that got through stick past Dwayne Roloson for defenseman Kent Huskins and Malkin’s 21st goal. right to Voracek, who faked Seconds before that faceoff, and then slid the puck between Roloson seemed willing to drop goaltender Thomas Griess’ leg the gloves on a night when pads. Voracek's last goal had there were two fights and come on Dec. 14. nearly a couple of more. 


page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, February 11. 2010 
NFL 

Gary Kubiak extends contract with Texans through 2012 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON — Houston Texans owner Bob McNair watched with admiration as the New Orleans Saints cele­brated their first Super Bowl victory. 
McNair is confident that Gary Kubiak will lead the Texans to one very soon. 
The Texans announced Wednesday that Kubiak has signed a contract extension that runs through the 2012 season, a vote of confidence after the team finished 9-7 — the first winning record in the franchise’s eight-year history. 
“We have a foundation in place,” McNair said. “We don’t have to go out and establish the foundation, which is what we’ve been doing the last eight years. We’ve got some outstanding players, and we just have to keep building on that. 
“In evaluating where we were and looking at our coaching situation,” McNair added, “I believe Gary can take us to the Super Bowl.” 
Houston is 31 -33 in Kubiak’s four seasons, though the team is still seeking its first playoff berth. The 48­year-old Kubiak took over the Texans in January 2006 after the team finished 2-14. His original contract was due to expire after the 2010 season. 
“Bob has taken a hard look at where we were four years ago and where we are today and with that, made the deci­sion that we’re heading in the right direction,” Kubiak said. “I want to finish what I start­ed. We still have a long way to go, but I’m enjoying the work, I’m enjoying the chal­lenge.” 
McNair admitted he was disappointed that the team missed the playoffs again last season. But he said the team has showed “a lot of progress” under Kubiak and he wanted to maintain conti­nuity by keeping him in charge. 
“The most disruptive thing you can do is go in every two or three years and change your coaching staff,” McNair said. “When you do that, the new coach might have differ­ent schemes that he wants to employ and all of a sudden, the players you have don’t fit that scheme. It just sets you back several years.” 
The Texans ranked fourth in total offense last season (383 yards per game), but assistant head coach Alex Gibbs left for Seattle and offensive coordinator Kyle Shanahan went to join his father, Mike, in Washington. 
Kubiak hired former Denver offensive coordinator Rick Dennison to replace Shanahan and former Atlanta offensive coordinator Greg Knapp to become Houston’s quarterbacks coach. Dennison worked on the Broncos’ staff during Kubiak’s 11 years as Denver’s 
offensive coordinator, and Knapp coached Houston quarterback Matt Schaub for three seasons with the Falcons. 
Both Dennison and Knapp are also signed through the 2012 season. 
“We have strengthened our coaching staff,” McNair said. “I’m pleased we were able to finalize our contractual nego­tiations with Gary and with our coaches, so everybody will be on the same timeline. That makes everyone feel very good about the situa­tion.” 
McNair said the Texans need to bolster their offensive and defensive lines and their depth at running back before next season. 
Houston ranked 30th in rushing last season (92 yards per game), ahead of only Indianapolis and San Diego. Both those teams won their divisions, but Kubiak said the Texans need a stronger run­ning game to complement their high-powered passing attack. 
“We can go out there and throw it with anybody in the business. I don’t think that’s what’s best for our team in the long run," Kubiak said. “We’ve got to be more domi­nant late in games. Some games we lost, it was because we couldn’t hang onto the football late in those games. It’s very important in the development of our team, taking the next step. It wasn’t good enough last year.” 
The Texans have 15 unre­stricted free agents, including cornerback Dunta Robinson, 
offensive lineman Chester Pitts and receiver Kevin Walter. McNair said there’s no rush to re-sign any of the players, since free agency doesn’t begin until March 5. 
“A lot of what we do will be dependent on who we might sign from free agency, and who we get in the draft and what our needs are,” McNair said. “We won’t look at that until later.” 
McNair said he would pre­fer to continue replenishing his roster with draft picks. He said free agents are riskier investments. 
“We believe you have to build through the draft and we will continue to do that,” McNair said. 



Thursday, February 11, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
NBA 

Trail Blazers hold off Suns’ late-game rally 
Bulls’ Rose suffers injury from Howard in loss to Magic; Nets have trouble getting on the board in 48th loss of season 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX — Steve Blake had 20 points and 12 assists, both season highs, and the deplet­ed Portland Trail Blazers held off a late rally by Phoenix to snap the Suns’ five-game win­ning streak 108 -101 on Wednesday night. 
The Blazers, who led by as many as 22 in the third quar­ter and 17 in the fourth, shot 58 percent, the highest the Suns have allowed this sea­son. Portland made 71 per­cent of their first-half shots while ending a 10-game losing streak in Phoenix. 
The Blazers, without All-Star Brandon Roy and three other injured important play­ers, bolted to a 14-point lead in the opening minutes and were up by as many as 17 in the second quarter. 
LaMarcus Aldridge led five Portland players in double fig­ures with 22 points. Amare Stoudemire scored 24 for Phoenix. 
The Trail Blazers last won in Phoenix on Feb. 4, 2004, but they have beaten the Suns four straight times — three in Portland — for the first time since Dec. 5, 1999. 
The closest the Suns got after the early minutes was 103-99 after Steve Nash’s long 3-pointer with 18.8 seconds to go, then Blake and Miller made seven of eight free throws to finish it off. 
The Blazers, who managed just 77 points in Tuesday night’s 89-77 home loss to Oklahoma City, shot 71 per­cent in the first half (27 of 38) and led 60-44 at the break. 
The Suns, who hadn’t played since Friday, scored the last six points of the third quarter and first nine of the fourth. The 15-0 run that started and ended on 3-pointers by Jared Dudley cut the lead to 83-76 with 10½ minutes to play. But Nicolas Batum and Blake made 3-pointers, and Dante Cunningham had a breakaway layup to ignite a 12-2 spurt by Portland. 
The Blazers led 95-78 after Aldridge’s thundering dunk with 7:07 remaining. 
Phoenix managed a last gasp. Channing Frye made a 7-footer from the baseline, followed by a fastbreak dunk, then Nash made a 3-pointer in an 18-6 run that cut it to 101­96 after Stoudemire’s two free throws. 
Blake missed a long 3 at the shot clock buzzer, but Aldridge grabbed the offensive rebound. That led to two free throws by Blake that boosted the lead to 103-96 24.2 sec­onds from the end. 
The Blazers, without Roy for the 12th straight game, made 12 of their first 15 shots to go up 24-10. After Aldridge’s 20­footer made it 26-12, Phoenix coach Alvin Gentry called a time out and gave his team a profanity-laced tongue lash­ing. 
Magic 107, Bulls 87 
Dwight Howard insisted his intentions were pure, that he was simply trying to block a layup and in no way meant to injure Derrick Rose. 
It’s just that the lane can be a dangerous place. Particularly when “Superman” is lurking. 
“He hit the ‘Man of Steel,’” Howard said. 
Howard had 18 points and 14 rebounds, and the Orlando Magic pulled away early for a victory over the Chicago Bulls on Wednesday night for their 10th win in 12 games. 
Orlando led 41-17 through the first quarter and didn’t have to contend with Rose, Chicago’s All-Star point guard, after he left with a bruised right hip following the hard foul by Howard in the opening minutes. That was a chilling sight on a night when little went right for the Bulls, and the Magic could do no wrong. 
They certainly look ready 
fo r  LeBr o n  J ame s  an d  th e  
C lev e l an d  C av alie rs  o n  
Th ur s d a y,  a  sh ow d own  
b e t ween  t he  E a s t e rn  

Conference’s top teams before the All-Star break. 
Howard had his league-lead­ing 41st double-double, while Vince Carter scored 15 points after pouring in a season-high 48 in a win over New Orleans 
on Monday. Matt Barnes added 14 for the Magic, who had seven players in double figures. 
“We had so many guys rolling tonight,” Carter said. 
Luol Deng led Chicago with 23 points, his fourth straight game with 20 or more, but the Bulls never had a chance — particularly after Rose went down, throwing his status for the weekend’s All-Star game into question. 
“Quite honestly, without Derrick, they’re a little easier to defend,” Magic coach Stan Van Gundy said before cor­recting himself. “Not a little easier.” 


Selected to the U.S. national team pool Wednesday, Rose’s day took a drastic turn for the worse almost as soon as the game began. He drove the lane hard for a layup about 2½ minutes into it and got knocked to the floor by Howard, clutching his lower back before slowly rising to his feet. Rose then hit a free throw to complete the three-point play but left right after that. 
“Hopefully, he’s OK,” Howard said. “It’s never my intention to hurt him or any­body, but it’s my job to protect the basket.” 
Bulls coach Vinny Del Negro said: “I don’t think there was anything intended there at all, just to try to block a shot.” 
Rose went for an MRI at a nearby hospital after X-rays taken at the arena showed no structural damage and was unavailable for comment. His availability for the All-Star game depends on the test results and how his body alley-oop dunk from Jameer Nelson. 
“(Rose) does so much for us. But from the beginning, we were kind of out to lunch,” Bulls guard Kirk Hinrich said. 
Bucks 97, Nets 77 
It was a sad sight in a sorry season. 
In front of about 1,000 fans, the New Jersey Nets lost for the 48th time before the All-Star break, trounced by the 
Mi l w au kee  Bu c k s  on  
Wednesday night.  
A n d r e w  Bo g ut  sco re d  2 2  

points and Ersan Ilyasova added 18 for Milwaukee. 
A storm that dumped more than a foot of snow on the New York region kept the crowd at the IZOD Center to a turnstile count of 1,016, most of whom moved to the court-side seats and the first few rows of the lower bowl. 
“Fans couldn’t get out, but it was tough to generate energy you need in a situation like this. Unfortunately we didn’t,” Nets forward Jarvis Hayes said. 
Up close, the few fans in attendance saw the Bucks 
shoot 50 per­
cent against the 
responds. That worst team in 
“Fans couldn't get out, 
injury also left the league. 
Chicago with-but it was tough to New Jersey, out two of its generate energy you led by Devin best players, Harris with 27 
need in a situation like
with center points, extend-
this. Unfortunately we
Joakim Noah ed its latest los­sidelined by didn't.” ing streak to plantar fasci-eight games. itis in his left The Nets head 
Jarvis Hayes 
foot. into the All-Star 
Nets forward 
“Let’s see break at 4-48, what the MRI the same says,” Del record the Negro said. “Let’s see how Philadelphia 76ers had when much discomfort, how stiff he they recorded an NBA-worst is tomorrow. Usually, those 9-73 mark for the 1972-73 things tend to loosen up rap-season. idly, and luckily, we do have “I’m not sure exactly what the All-Star break. I just hope happened, but this is the first he’s all right to participate time in I think eight or nine because he deserves it and I games where we didn’t com-want him to enjoy himself.” pete in the second half,” Nets 
There was nothing enjoyable interim coach Kiki about this one for the Bulls. Vandeweghe said. “I’m not 
The Magic followed up a 68-sure exactly what happened ... point second half in Monday’s people looked very tired to win over New Orleans with me.” their second -most prolific The Bucks used an 18-1 run quarter this season. that bridged the third and 
They hit 15 of 22 shots in fourth quarters to pull away. the opening period, including Leading 68-60 to start the 11 of their first 13 while fourth quarter, Milwaukee jumping out to a 30-11 lead. scored 10 straight points — With a 9-6 lead after Rose’s including five from Luke three-point play, they scored Ridnour (17 points) — to open 11 straight to break it open — up a 78-60 lead with 8:57 left. a layup by Barnes, a 3-pointer “We had an up-tick in our by Rashard Lewis and another energy level,” Bucks coach layup by Barnes capping that Scott Skiles said. “We played run. well defensively and it paid off 
Carter, meanwhile, hit a 3-for us.” pointer and a 16-footer to Courtney Lee (11 points) make it 30-11 with about five temporarily stopped the del­minutes left in the quarter. uge for the Nets with a 3­After two free throws by pointer, but Carlos Delfino Deng, Howard spun toward answered right back with his the rim for a thunderous own 3. 


page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, February 11, 2010 
NHL 

Ducks defeat Oilers in record-setting home win 
Avalanche come back in overtime to defeat Thrashers; Coyotes skate closer to frst playoffs since 2002 with win over Wild 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. — Todd Marchant scored the go-ahead goal with 11:39 left in the third period and the Anaheim Ducks beat Edmonton 3-2 on Wednesday night, setting a franchise record with their 11th straight home victory and extending the Oilers’ club-record road losing streak to 11 games. 
Bobby Ryan scored twice, and Jonas Hiller made 17 of his 37 saves during the first period in the opener of the four-game season series. 
The Ducks are 13-5-0 in their last 18 and just two points behind Calgary for the eighth and final Western Conference playoff spot. They played with­out Ryan Getzlaf, who sprained his left ankle Monday night in a 4-2 win over Los Angeles. 
Ryan Potulny and Ethan Moreau scored short-handed goals in the second period for the Oilers, whose penalty-killing unit had produced only one over the first 58 games. Jeff Deslauriers made 27 saves. 
Edmonton, mired in a 3-22-2 freefall, is at the bottom of the NHL standings with 42 points 
— seven behind Toronto. The Oilers have never finished a season with the NHL’s worst record. They had the best record three times during the Wayne Gretzky era. 
The Oilers haven’t won a road game since Dec. 11, when they concluded a 5-1 trip with a 5-2 victory at St. Louis. That also was the last time they scored more than four goals in a game. The defeat tied their longest road winless streak — set in 1990-91 when they went 0-7 with four ties. 
Marchant, who spent nine-plus seasons with Edmonton, redirected James Wisniewski’s slap shot from the right point past Deslauriers’ glove for his first game-winner of the season less than a minute after the Oilers had killed off an interfer­ence penalty against Steve Staios. 
Ryan opened the scoring at 
13:58 of the first period, con­verting a pass from behind the net by Corey Perry after Perry worked the puck free from defenseman Ladislav Smid. 
The Oilers came up empty during a 5-on-3 power play they had for a minute and 32 seconds early in the second period, but were able to tie the score while killing off a trip­ping penalty against Staios. 
Moreau’s persistent forechecking behind the net caused Steve Eminger to cough up the puck and it bounced out in front, where Potulny scored his first career short-handed goal on a one-timer from the slot. 
Moreau put Edmonton ahead 2-1 at 14:33 of the second with his 15th short-handed goal, beating Hiller to the glove side on a breakaway just 9 seconds after Smid was sent off for holding Jason Blake. But the Ducks tied it with 42 seconds still left on Smid’s penalty, as Ryan carried the puck into the right circle and beat Deslauriers to the glove side for his team-high 27th goal. 
The teams meet again Saturday at Edmonton before heading into the 
Avalanche 4, Thrashers 3 
Kyle Cumiskey scored 9 sec­onds into overtime and the Colorado Avalanche overcame a two-goal deficit to beat the Atlanta Thrashers on Wednesday night. 
Chris Stewart had a goal and an assist, Chris Durno also scored, Paul Stastny had three assists, and Craig Anderson made 33 saves for Colorado. 
In overtime, the Avalanche won the faceoff and Cumiskey skated into the Thrashers’ zone. He split two defenders and beat Johan Hedberg for his seventh goal of the season. 
Nik Antropov, Niclas Bergfors and Bryan Little each had a goal and an assist for the Thrashers, and Hedberg made 31 saves. Atlanta has lost three straight on the road. 
The Thrashers took a 3-1 lead on Antropov’s goal with 
15:41 left, but Colorado battled back to force overtime. Stewart knocked in his own rebound with 11:26 left, and Durno beat Hedberg with 5:29 remaining in regulation. 
Little gave Atlanta a 2-1 lead when his shot from the left cir­cle got past Anderson with 
14:28 left in the second period. 
The Thrashers thought they had a 3-1 lead when a ruling on the ice gave them a goal with 2:08 left in the second, but a video review showed the puck didn’t completely cross the goal line and it was over­turned. 
Moments after killing a Colorado power play, the Thrashers opened the scoring inthe first. Antropov won a faceoff in his own zone and got the puck to Bergfors, who skat­ed into the Avalanche zone and used a screen by Little to beat Anderson. 
Colorado struck back 46 sec­onds later when Clark beat Hedberg. 
Coyotes 3, Wild 2 
With their first trip to the playoffs since 2002 inching closer and closer to a certainty, the Phoenix Coyotes may want to find a way to face Minnesota in round one. 
Martin Hanzal had a goal and an assist and the Coyotes com­pleted a season sweep of the Wild with a victory on Wednesday night. 
Hanzal scored in the first period and assisted on Radim Vrbata’s team-leading 20th goal in the third period. The Coyotes won twice in Minnesota and twice in Arizona for their first season sweep of the Wild in franchise history. 
“We’re just trying to get in the playoffs first,” said Coyotes coach Dave Tippett, uncon­cerned with which opponent they may face there. “We’ll worry about ourselves. We’re not going to worry about Minnesota.” 
Minnesota got an early power play goal by Guillaume Latendresse — his fourth in three games against Phoenix this season. Martin Havlat also scored for the Wild, who failed to get at least a point at home for the first time in the past nine games. 
Wild coach Todd Richards said his team needs to adopt a shoot-first mentality as they fight to catch Calgary for the final playoff spot in the West. 
“We’re looking to make that extra-pretty pass, looking for the empty net,” Richards said. “We have to be a team that shoots the puck and goes to the net.” 


Thursday, February 11, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
Pitchers 
continued from page 24 
Shannon Kelly and two freshmen, Jackie Bowe and Brittany O’Donnell, who will be throwing innings for us.” 
The remaining Irish defense will remain similar to last season with only one Champion team and presea­son top -ranked team, the Washington Huskies. 
“We always play a tough but balanced preseason schedule,” Gumpf said. “It prepares us for the Big East competition.” 
Playing the big name teams from highly competi­
tive softball 
infield posi ­

“Each team is our 
tion to be held 

biggest game on the
by a new play­er. day we play them.” “Our goal defensively is 
Deanna Gumpf
to be solid, 

Irish coach
make consis ­tent plays, ” Gumpf said. “We will be working on 
conferences, 
s u c h a s  t h e  
B i g  1 2 ,  S E C  
a n d  P a c  1 0 ,  

help prepare the Irish for their in -con ­ference por ­tion of the schedule, which kicks 
off March 27 against Seton Hall. 
“When it comes to Big East, every 
getting better every day we are out there and becoming a consistent team.” 
Last year, the Irish team featured many strong hit ­team is gunning for us, ” Gumpf said. “Each team is our biggest game on the day we play them.” 
Notre Dame will also play 
ters. Returning top hitters include senior Christine Lux and sopho ­more Dani Miller. 
“Our hitters this year potenti ally could be even better than last year ’s squad, ” Irish assistant 

“If we stay focused throughout each part of our season, we should put ourselves in a good spot for the postseason.” 
Deanna Gumpf Irish coach 
other competi­tive programs before starting the Big East portion of its schedule, including No. 16 Ohio State, Auburn, Purdue, San Diego State and Oregon. 
“The possi ­bility should be great for us to win another 
coach Kris Ganeff said. “With what we have returned and our added freshmen bats I would look for the Irish to come out swinging.” 
The Irish start their season this weekend playing in the Kajikawa Classic, hosted by Arizona State. The Irish will play last year ’s NCAA ring,” Ganeff said. “We have a lot of talent and great leadership. If we stay focused throughout each part of our season, we should put ourselves in a good spot for the postsea­son.” 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles look to prove themselves 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 

The Belles face Wheaton College tonight in a non ­conference match -up in which they will be looking to exact a measure of revenge for an early-season loss. 
Saint Mary’s (12 -9, 7-6 MIAA) took on the Thunder (12 -9, 6-5 CCIW) in what was both teams’ second reg­ular-season game on Nov. 20 at the Bluffton University Tip -Off Tournament. The game was tied at 73 before Wheaton broke through for a 78-73 win. The first meet­ing was characterized by an intense battle between the two teams. They switched the lead 13 times and were tied at 12 different points in the game, including at the half. 
Neither team was able to gain more than an eight ­point advantage at any time. 
The Thunder were led in that game by a breakout performance from freshman guard Breanna Bohlen, who scored 24 points as well as chalking up seven rebounds and three assists off the bench while sophomore for­ward Elisabeth Potts added 11 points. 
“We let [that game] slip away,” Belles coach Jennifer Henley said. 
Wheaton sophomore guard Lindsey Brenneman leads the Thunder overall, aver­aging 13.6 points per game. Bohlen is second among active players, averaging nine points per game. In the frontcourt, junior forward and captain Annie Bowen will look to establish herself in the paint. 
Saint Mary’s will depend on sophomore guard Patsy Mahoney and junior guard Liz Wade to defend the pow­erful Wheaton backcourt, and to junior forward Jessica Centa and senior forward Anna Kammrath for a presence at the post. The Belles are expecting a tough offensive threat from the Thunder. 
“Wheaton is a very good team,” Henley said. “They are very well coached and have some great shooters.” 
Despite the scheduling of this non-conference game in the middle of the MIAA homestretch and only two days before a trip to league-leading Hope, Henley does not see the game as a dis­traction. Instead, she sees it as a positive for her team. 
“This is our bye week dur­ing the conference, ” she said. “It’s nice to have a game to stay on schedule rather than be off an entire week.” 
Saint Mary ’s looks to avenge its early loss to Wheaton at 7 p.m. tonight in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
NHL 

Canadiens take out Capitals 6-5 
Associated Press 

MONTREAL — After coming back with three third-period goals to send the game to overtime, the Washington Capitals finally saw their team-record winning streak come to an end within 8 sec­onds of making it to a shootout. 
Tomas Plekanec scored his second goal of the game at 
4:52 of overtime and the Montreal Canadiens ended Washington’s 14-game streak with a 6-5 victory Wednesday night. Washington, which hadn’t lost in nearly a month, fell three wins short of tying the 1992-93 Pittsburgh Penguins’ NHL-record streak of 17 games. 
Brooks Laich drew the Capitals even at 5, scoring his third goal of the game with 
18.4 seconds left and goalie Jose Theodore off for an extra attacker. 
“We always battle hard,” coach Bruce Boudreau said. “Normally we’d say that was a good point but we were try­ing to do something special so it’s a deflating loss. I think it was 7 seconds left to get to the shootout where we would have felt pretty confident tonight that we would have been successful, but those things happen.” 
Trailing 5-2 after Plekanec scored Montreal’s fourth goal of the second with 1:04 left in the period, Washington bat­tled back with three goals in the third — including two by Laich — to send the game to overtime. 
“Well eventually you’re playing with fire getting down by two or three goals,” Laich said. “During the streak we have been able to come back. We can’t continually do it, it’s not a recipe for success, and eventually when you play a good hockey team they’re going to find a way to beat you.” 
Laich, who scored 6:23 into the first to tie it at 1, scored his second of the game mid­way through the third to draw the Capitals to 5-4 after Mike Green scored a power-play goal 16 seconds into the third. 
“It’s obviously disappoint­ing,” Green said. “We really wanted to push and keep this thing going. I think it builds character for a team and it’s disappointing, but I thought we played well there in the third period and we battled back to give ourselves a chance and you know that also builds character.” 
Glen Metropolit and Maxim Lapierre scored 12 seconds apart in the second for Montreal. Tom Pyatt also scored in the middle period for the Canadiens, and Scott Gomez scored in the first. Sergei Kostitsyn had three assists. 
“To beat this hockey club is great for us, Plekanec said. “We needed two points in the standings and we got them.” 
Carey Price made 33 saves in his first start in six games for Montreal, which played its first game since general man­ager Bob Gainey’s surprise resignation Monday. 
“Carey showed some char­acter and determination,” Canadiens coach Jacques Martin said. “He made big saves when we needed them.” 
Nicklas Backstrom also scored for Washington, which hasdn’t lost since dropping a 7-4 decision at Tampa Bay on Jan. 12. 
Alexander Ovechkin extend­ed his points streak to eight games with an assist on Backstrom’s 26th goal, which tied it at 2 early in the sec­ond. Ovechkin added his sec­ond assist on Laich’s hat trick goal. 
Washington’s Michal Neuvirth stopped 12 of 14 shots before he was replaced by Jose Theodore 6:11 into the second with the score tied at 2. Theodore, who allowed three of Montreal’s four sec­ond-period goals, made 21 saves the rest of the way. 
Metropolit got his 12th goal of the season on a power play 
12:45 into the second to give the Canadiens their third one-goal lead at 3-2. 
Lapierre beat Theodore with a shot from the slot shortly after the ensuing face-off to put Montreal up 4-2 at 12:57. 


page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 11, 2010 
the event across Notre Basketball Coaches ’ Dame ’s campus and the Association, and is extended 
Pink 

South Bend area, as well as to every NCAA women’s bas-continued from page 24 to the entire ketball 
country. t e a m Valvano. Adding significance “Last year we across the to the event, Yow recently got a bunch of country. passed away on Jan. 24, people on cam-“We ended up last Menio ’s 2009, after her 22-year bat-pus together year winning the chal-goal for the tle with the disease, which and said, ‘Let’s game and 
lenge with more than
has provided a new galva-see if we can fundraisers 
$48,000 raised.” 
nization in the basketball challenge the are to raise community to support the top 20 teams in at least fund. the country in Stephanie Menio $55 ,000 , 
The Irish first became attendance to but she is 
Irish Coordinator of 
involved with The Kay see who can hopeful
Basketball Relations 
Yow/WBCA Cancer Fund in raise the most the 2007-08 season when money for they played in their own breast cancer “Think Pink ” game. The awareness and game collected only a mod-research,’” Menio said. “So est sum of money for breast we called the Tennessees cancer research, but it pro-and the Connecticuts of the 
v i d e d  a n  w o r l d  a n d  
inspirational  s a i d ,  ‘ h e y,  
s p a r k t h a t would lead to  “So we called the  bring it.’” A n d  t h e  
t h e  m o v e - Tennessee’s and the  N o t r e  D a m e  
ment gaining s t e a m a t N o t r e D a m e  Connecticut’s of the world and said, ‘hey,  a n d S o u t h Bend commu-nity did bring  
in the ye ars  bring it.’”  i t ,  e a r n i n g  
to come.  m o r e  m o n e y  
“We started w i t h ‘ T h i n k  Stephanie Menio  for breast can-c e r r e s e a r c h  
P i n k ’  t h r e e  Irish Coordinator of  a n d  a w a r e - 
y e a r s  a g o , ”  Basketball Relations  ness  than any  
M e n i o  s a i d .  of the other 19  
“ We  s t a r t e d  p r o g r a m s  
very small in  involved.  

the 2007-08 season. I think “We ended up last year the girls wore pink winning the challenge with shoelaces, that kind of more than $48,000 raised,” thing, and we raised maybe Menio said. “So this year we $2,000.” talked to the WBCA and said 
Menio, along with the we wanted to open it up to entire staff of the women’s everyone across the country basketball team, decided and see who could raise the that there was a great most money.” opportunity to expand from The game is now coordi­this initial game and spread nated by the Women ’s 
Recruits 
continued from page 24 
Islanders, center Anders Lee is also starring in the USHL, for the Green Bay Gamblers. Lee leads the Gamblers with 21 goals and 21 assists, and in 2008 was named Minnesota’s Gatorade Player of the Year for his accom­plishments as a quarterback at Edina High School. 
“[Ander’s] got good hands and with his size, his puck skills and his instincts has shown that he is more of a power-type forward who has become an effective goal scorer while also being a good playmaker,” Jackson told UND.com in November. 
Joining Costello and Lee from the USHL will be Gerths, Lind, right wing Garrett Peterson and center 
T.J. Tynam. 
Three members of the USA Hockey National Team Development Program com­plete the recruiting class and are each included in NHL’s Central Scouting’s mid-term ratings, along with Lind. Defenseman Stephen Johns is rated the 28th best North American skater, followed by Lind at 32nd, defenseman Jarred Tinordi at 42nd and center Bryan Rust at 76th. His time on the U.S. Under­18 team has brought Johns a reputation as a very physical player, and in their two years with USA Hockey, Slaggert said Tinordi and Rust have gained ideal expe­rience. 
“Any diverse experience is good, not always playing with the same guys, always in the same role, always asked to do the same thing,” he said. “A more varied that they 
will be able 
to surpass 

that num ­ber. North Carolina State, the former coaching home of Yow, has already raised money in the $90,000 range in their “Pink Zone” game. 
The game’s proceeds will benefit two different foun­dations. The first 25 percent will go to the Kay Yow/WBCA Cancer Fund, with the other 75 percent going to three organizations supported by the St. Joseph’s Regional Medical Center in the local commu­nity: the Women’s Task Force, the Secret Sisters Society and the Young Survivors Group. 
According to Menio, the Irish are receiving dona ­tions and items for the silent auction, making her hopeful for a great showing Sunday. The Irish will take on DePaul at 3 p.m. in the Purcell Pavilion in another Big East battle. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
hockey experiences makes coach Jackson and I went to 
for a more complete play­
“A more varied 
er.” 
While the let-hockey ters of intent experiences makes seemingly 
for a more
ended the process of complete player.” recruiting these nine 
Jeff Jackson 
players, 
Irish coach
Slaggert said he and Jackson see the [USHL] All-Star Game in Indianapolis last weekend, and [associate head] coach [Paul] Pooley went to see the National Team as well,” Slaggert said. “We have to evaluate them to try and figure out where 

continue to scout them even they’re going to fit in, what now. they bring to the table.” 
“We’re not going to sign them and not pay any atten-Contact Douglad Farmer at tion to them, so actually dfarmer@nd.edu 
Tough 
continued from page 24 
It worked: Jones, averaging 29 points per game in his past nine before facing the Irish, shot 3-for-17 from the field. 
Hansbrough will have plenty of time to catch up on his read­ing before the Irish (17-7, 6-5 Big East) face Seton Hall (12-9, 3-7) in Newark, N.J., tonight, because the team left a day early, Tuesday afternoon, to avoid inclement weather in both South Bend and the east coast. The players spoke near the Purcell Pavilion loading dock, where the team bus, cov­leads the conference in rebounding with 10.9 rebounds per game (Harangody is right behind him at 10.1). 
Jackson said the Irish would approach Hazell in a similar fashion that they approached Jones, but that they can’t key on him. 
“We can’t focus too much on him,” Jackson said. “He’s going to get shots up so don’t get yourself down, keep your head high and continue to be aware of where he is.” 
Brey said keeping athletes off the glass and out of the lane is the key to facing not just Seton Hall but every Big East team. 
“If we can keep the athletic ability out of our league and off 
ered with snow and dripping water every­where from the already -thick snowfall, waited to take them to the airport. 
Irish coach Mike Brey said he thought the team would be fine with the early departure and that it might lessen distrac­
“As soon as he catches it, your belly button’s touching his belly button.” 
Ben Hansbrough Irish guard 
the backboard enough, we can compete with anybody in the league,” he said. “When we don’t, anybody in the league can beat us.” 
Seton Hall has lost three straight, but they were three tough oppo­nents: South Florida in over­
tions and help increase its focus. 
“We’ve done this before and we had success when we did it,” Brey said, referring to Notre Dame’s win on the road at South Florida, where the Irish also had an extended stay. 
“Someti mes when you get away you have a little more focus. You get them all in a hotel, there’s no distractions of class and things around here.” 
Hansbrough said he wasn’t a big fan of sitting around snowed in at a hotel, but that he would persevere. 
“I hate being still,” he said. “I can’t do it, but 
I’ll be alright, I’m sure I’ll find a pool somewhere.” 
The Pirates’ leading scorer, junior guard Jeremy Hazell, is second to Irish forward Luke Harangody in the Big East in scoring with 22 points per game. Sophomore Herb Pope, at 6-foot-8 and 236 pounds, time, Villanova and Pittsburgh, all on the road. After losing four of five, Notre Dame has won two straight at home and hopes to continue the success, Brey said. 
“We’d like to take a little bit of the same personality we’ve 
“Sometimes when you get away you have a little more focus. You get them all in a hotel, there’s no distractions of class and things around here.” 
Mke Brey Irish coach 
had in here the last two games on the road,” he said. 
Hansbrough said the team realized that it could be tougher than it was, and that it needed to channel that focus tonight. 
“We have to go in there like it’s a do or die game,” he said. “We could be .500 
in the Big East or we could be 7-5. We have to go in there and play as tough as we can and focus on defense.” 
The Irish will tip-off at 7 p.m. on ESPNU. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


Thursday, February 11, 2010 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 



Sports 
Thursday, February 11, 2010 page 24 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Raising the stakes in ‘Pink’ 
Irish host annual ‘Pink Zone’ game Sunday to raise funds for breast cancer research 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
Born from humble origins here on campus a year ago, Notre Dame’s annual “Pink Zone” game, which serves to raise money for breast can­cer research and awareness, will tip-off Sunday against DePaul. The event has rapid­ly grown in the past year to take on a national signifi­cance. 
“It was really exciting how it started,” Coordinator of Basketball Operations Stephanie Menio said. “It was a bunch of people just coming together on campus. It was myself, [Chief of Staff and Special Assistant to the President] Frances Shavers, and it was somebody from Rolfs, and someone from the Physics department; it was just a lot of people. The great thing about this event is that it is so grass-roots here on campus. People can give just a dollar here and a dollar there.” 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw and her players are excited for the opportunity to make a difference in the community with such an important issue. 
“It feels great,” McGraw said. “It is a great game for the community. Last year was a really emotional day with seeing all the survivors on the court. It is such an important cause.” 
The origins of the event stem from the formation of The Kay Yow/WBCA Cancer Fund on Dec. 3, 2007, in sup­port of former North Carolina State coach Kay Yow’s battle with breast can­cer. The fund is also a branch of the V-Foundation, a cancer research foundation formed by ESPN and the late North Carolina State men’s basketball coach, Jim 
see PINK/page 22 


HOCKEY 

Irish boast impressive lineup of recruits despite record 
and should be for some time. based on NHL capability or right wing David Gerths and against, which is a good 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 

The class of nine boasts two potential,” Slaggert said. “It is defenseman Kevin Lind won thing.” 
Sports Writer 

players already drafted by really more if we think they gold -medals with the U.S. Costello was drafted 146th teams in the NHL, four play-could help us here … We look Junior Select Team that won overall in the 2009 NHL Entry 
Judging by its record, and ers within the top-100 of the for kids that are really com-the World Jr. A Challenge in Draft by the Ottawa Senators, last weekend’s debacle at NHL’s Central Scouting’s mid-petitive, that know the game early November. and currently leads the Cedar Western Michigan, Notre term rankings and five USHL well — are smart hockey pay-“As a class, [competing] is a Rapids Rough Riders of the Dame isn’t one of the nation’s All-Stars. Yet it is not these ers — and kids that skate strength of theirs,” Slaggert USHL with 21 goals and 13 elite teams this year. But if accolades that draw the atten-well.” said. “Talking to some guys assists. Irish coach Jeff Jackson’s lat-tion of Jackson and associate This class certainly has had who play against him, Jeff Drafted six spots after est recruiting haul is any indi-coach Andy Slaggert, Notre its chances to compete, and Costello tends to stand out as Costello by the New York cation, Notre Dame is still a Dame’s lead recruiter. win in doing so. Three mem-a player that other kids don’t big player in college hockey — “We don’t really evaluate bers, left wing Jeff Costello, necessarily enjoy paling see RECRUITS/page 22 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish ready to guard tough 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
For the second straight game, Notre Dame faces one of the Big East’s leading scorers. Luckily, Ben Hansbrough has a method for keeping them in check, a reverse golden rule if you will: Guard them like he doesn’t want to be guarded. 
A strategy taken from North Carolina coach Roy Williams’ book, “Hard Work,” the senior guard said he and fellow senior Tory Jackson used that strategy against South Florida guard Dominique Jones Sunday. 
“Just get all up in him, make everything tough,” Hansbrough said. “As soon as he catches it, your belly button’s touching his belly button.” 
see TOUGH/page 21 


ND WOMEN’S SOFTBALL 
Team opens season with winning hopes 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
After breaking numerous records at the plate, on the mound and in the field, and winning the title of Big East champions last sea­son, the Irish softball team is ready to begin the 2010 season with even loftier goals. 
“Our expectations are higher this season,” Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. “We have a veteran team who knows how to win.” 
Though Notre Dame was not granted a pre-season ranking, some of those who voted did see potential in the Irish, which hopefully promises that they will be ranked within the first few weeks of play, if all goes well. 
“In the voters’ minds we lost some key players from last season,” Gumpf said. “It also gives us an oppor­tunity to rise in the rank­ings early.” 
The Irish graduated five seniors at the end of the 2009 season, including cel­ebrated pitcher Brittany Bargar. But the coaching staff boasts that they do not predict the Irish will struggle at the mound with four pitchers and varying the rotation. 
“I expect Jody Valdivia to lead the way with her experience and success from last year, ” Gumpf said. “We also have junior 
see PITCHERS/page 21 





