the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students, University respond to arrests 
University, student government representatives meet with police officials 

By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
In response to the large number of students recently arrested and incarcerated for underage drinking, represen­tatives from the University and student government met with the South Bend Police Department (SBPD) this week. 
These meetings opened communication channels and resulted in small changes in SBPD procedure, Fr. Tom Doyle, vice president for Student Affairs said. 
South Bend police officers will wear and activate body microphones, Doyle said. 
“As long as they’re in prox­imity to the car, there will be an audio account,” he said. “This is for the officer’s secu­rity and this is for every ­
see ARRESTS/page 7 




Students share accounts of roundups and party busts near campus 
By LAURA MCCRYSTAL 
News Editor 

Senior Krissy Kemnetz was alone with her 20-year-old boyfriend in his apartment Saturday when police came to knock on the door. 
The male student opened the door of his apartment, told police he was with only his girlfriend and offered to turn down his music, Kemnetz, 21, said. The police asked to see both his and Kemnetz’s identification, gave him a breathalyzer test, put him in handcuffs and searched the apartment. 
Kemnetz said Police officers denied the student the opportuni­ty to put on a pair of shoes before taking him to jail, where she said he stayed for 12 hours before she was able to post his bail for release. 
“[The police] were just being 
see ACCOUNTS/page 8 



Students anticipate season 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Saturday’s game against Purdue marks the beginning of a new year and new era for Notre Dame football, as Brian Kelly will participate in his first game as head coach of the Irish. 
After several seasons fail­ing to meet expectations, anticipation is running high amongst the student body for this football season. 
Sophomore Alyssa Dammann said numerous new faces, including that of Kelly, are what excite her most about Saturday’s game. 
“I’m excited to see how Brian Kelly brings it together. He seems like he knows how to use what he has with this team,” she said. 
Dammann said the influx of new players makes this sea­son feel different than the previous season. 
“I’m more excited than I was last year,” she said. “This new year seems like a new era, with a lot of new faces playing against Purdue on Saturday.” 
Freshman Christen McDonough also believes Kelly is capable of achieving great results with the football team. 
“I thought Kelly was really exciting when he spoke at Freshman Orientation, and as an athlete I can definitely say that he would be a really cool coach to play for,” she said. “He seems really uplift-


see SEASON/page 8 


BeND program aims to improve relations 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
As part of an ongoing effort to improve relations with the com­munity outside the Notre Dame campus, student government administration has launched the “BeND campaign.” 
“BeND is our cohesive effort to improve relations, promote off-campus initiatives and encourage students to be an active and respectful member of the surrounding community,” student body president Catherine Soler said. 
Soler said community rela­tions are more important than ever as the city grows to include more off-campus attractions for students, increasing interactions between students, residents and busi­ness owners. 
“Now that transportation is becoming easier, people have more options off-campus,” Soler said. “South Bend is becoming more of a college town than it ever was before.” 
While the program began before the recent arrests off-campus occurred, Soler said she hopes the educational aspect of BeND will help ease tensions between students and police by fully informing stu­dents of their rights and how to deal with law enforcement appropriately and respectfully while off campus. She said the general improvement in com­munity relations will carry over to dealings with the police. 
“While this is not a reaction to any one incident, we feel this is building a foundation for long term positive relations in the community, which hopefully will help diffuse some of what is happening and prevent more of that in the future,” Soler said. 
“It didn’t start with recent incidences and it won’t end with recent incidences,” stu­dent body vice president Andrew Bell said. “The aim of it is for us, as students, to take ownership for how we act rather than be reactive to situa­tions that occur.” 
BeND primarily asks students 
see BEND/page 7 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER UniversityincorporatesiPadsinto classes page7 Women’s soccer preview page 24 What yourarrivaltimesaysabout you page13 Viewpoint page10 
THE OBSERVER 

THE HOT SEAT: ONE PERSON, FIVE QUESTIONS, INFINITE POSSIBILITIES 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 djacobs1@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Chris Masoud Molly Madden Molly Sammon Caitlin Housley Scene 
Graphics Ankur Chawla Brandon Keelean Viewpoint Photo Michelle Maitz Dan Jacobs 


THE HOT SEAT is a new addi­tion to Page 2. On Mondays a prominent student will be fea­tured, and Fridays will feature a campus personality. Don’t worry, the Photo Poll will still run in our midweek editions. 


How many rushing TDs will Dayne Crist have? 
I’ll give him three rushing touchdowns. 

How many rushing TDs for you? 
If Dayne has three, I have to have at least three [laughing]. Just kidding. Probably one. 

Do you think you’ll actually run the Wildcat offense this weekend? 
That’d be awesome. We’re excited to just have it in our gameplan. 

What would be your first thought if that were to happen? 
If it’s in the red zone on the goal line, it’s going to be score. 

Would you rather throw a TD pass to Dayne Crist or run one in yourself? 
I’ll throw it to him. A passing touchdown and a receiving touchdown for him would be nice. 


Know someone who should be in the hot seat? E-mail djacobs1@nd.edu 

OFFBEAT 

Man leads hour -long chase in dump truck 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Police said a 37-year-old man driving a dump truck led them on an hour-long chase over roads, rails and yards in the Syracuse area that ended with the suspect being shot. The Onondaga County Sheriff said Stanley Lostumbo jumped into a dump truck Tuesday night after being accused of stealing from vending machines at a mall. 
Police pursued the truck 
on a highway, through backyards and school grounds and down rail­road tracks at speeds up to 65 mph before stopping it at a barricade in East Syracuse. 
Police said Lostumbo reversed the truck and hit a sheriff ’s vehicle and officers fired, apparently striking Lostumbo in the shoulder. He was briefly hospitalized for minor injuries. 
Dead plants declared the start of house fire 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. — A fire that did $20,000 in dam­ages to a northeast Arkansas home wasn’t caused by an electrical problem or burning food or arson, an insurance investigator concluded. Instead, the dead plants did it, according to a report sum­mary provided to the home­owner, Brian Duncan. “The fire was caused by self-heat­ing through decomposition of organic materials contained within a plastic flowerpot,” the Aug. 25 letter from State Farm Insurance Co. said. 
Or, in layman’s terms, spontaneous combustion. 
Duncan, whose home is a few miles south of Paragould, said the flowerpot had con­tained dead, decomposing flowers and potting soil that his wife had planted in the summer of 2009. Paragould is about 150 miles northeast of Little Rock. 
“She had intended on repotting (the flowers),” Duncan said. But they sat on the porch, unwatered, and eventually died. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 

The “Parallel Currents: Highlights of the Ricardo Pau-Llosa Collection of Latin American Art” will be exhibit­ed today in the Snite Art muse­um from 10 a.m. until 5p.m. The exhibit is open to students, faculty, staff and the public. 
Susan Blum, a professor in the Department of Anthropology, will speak Saturday at noon in the Snite Museum’s Annenburg Auditorium. The lecture, “Plagarism and College Culture” is part of the Saturday Scholars Series. The event is free and open to the public. 
“From Earth to the Edges,” a Saturday Science Exploration Series event will take place Saturday at 1 p.m. Keith Davis will lead a tour of the capabili­ties of the Jordan Hall of Science Digital Visualization Theater. The event will take place in room 100 of the Jordan Hall of Science. 
Architectural exhibit, "Documenting History, Charting Progress and Exploring the World,” show­casing the Janos Scholz Collection of 19th century European photography will open Sunday at 10 a.m. The exhibit will be located in the Snite Art Museum. The exhibit is open to the public. 
Recent Gifts from the Dr. William McGraw ’65 Photography Collection will be showcased in the Snite Art Museum from 1-5 p.m. on Sunday. Students, faculty, staff and the public are welcome to attend. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 
Today Tonight GAME DAY sunday monday tuesday 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



69 58 HIGH 6871 8184
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


60 53 LOW 5258 6366 







By AMANDA GRAY 
Assistant News Editor 
A global company with an earth-friendly agenda has come to campus. 
Zipcars, the world’s largest car-sharing program, now has four cars on Notre Dame’s campus, Erin Hafner said. Hafner is the programs manager for the Office of Sustainability. 
“We had several requests from students and student groups to offer a car-sharing programs,” she said. 
The program opened Thursday, with an event at South Dining Hall from 10 
a.m. to 3 p.m. where stu -

Zipcars give a greener alternative 
Tomlin to teach, 
cars are taken off the road. company’s website. Once “We’re hoping it fulfills the approaching the cars, which 
lecture at College15 to 20 vehicles,” Hafner are located in the old 
said. “Think bringing vehi­cles to cam ­pus – they sit there. They’re 
only used a few times dur­ing campus. These are opportunities to use Zipcars.” 
Hafner said she hopes parents also 

of students Juniper Road parking lot near Stepan Center, the By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
“Zipcar has been microchip in 
around the longest the Zipcard unlocks the 
Saint Mary’s College staff 
— they have the 
door. Cars rent 

announced last Friday they 
most robust pro-for $8 an hour 
are excited to welcome gram.” Monday 
actress and comedian Lily through Friday, 
Tomlin to the Moreau Center with a maxi ­
for the Arts on September 
Erin Hafner 
mum of $66 per 27th. 

programs manager 
day charged. 

Tomlin replaced actress 
see Zipcar as an alternative to sending their children to school with cars. The cars on campus are all low -emission 
d e nt s co u l d r e g i s te r o n -s i t e a n d w i n g i v e a w a y s .  “We had several requests from students and student  vehicles. Two Toyota Priuses, na m e d Pa dd y and Perpetua,  
The event was o r i g i n a l l y lo c a te d a t  groups to offer a car-sharing  and two Scion Xb s, na m e d B r e e a n d  
F i e l d h o u s e  program.”  B l a r n ey,  n o w  
M a l l b u t  wa s  c a l l  N o t re  
moved due to r a i n . T h e r e will also be an identical event  Erin Hafner programs manager Offce of Sustainability  Dame home. Z i p c a r no r -mally requires a $25 registra­ 

today. 
The program is available for anyone on campus older than 18 with a driver’s license, Hafner said. The company covers insur­ance, gas, 180 miles each day, reserved parking spots, roadside assistance, cleaning and maintenance. There’s even a gas card in the visor to fill up when around town. 
“We’re hoping as it’s more popular student will come to campus not bringing cars,” Hafner said. 
The program states for every Zipcar used, 15 to 20 tion fee and a 
$50 annual fee. Anyone affiliated with Notre Dame registers through www.zipcar.com/notredame, where the annual registra­tion fee is $35, with $35 driving credit added toward the first month of driving, according to a press release. 
After students, faculty or staff register, they receive a “Zipcard” in the mail, which looks like a credit card and has a built-in microchip. 
After registration, users reserve cars through the 


Special to The Observer 
Shakespeare at Notre Dame and Actors From The London Stage (AFTLS) will present William Shakespeare’s “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” Wednesday to Friday at 7:30 
p.m. in Washington Hall. 
Admission is $20 for the gen­eral public, $18 for senior citi­zens, and $12 for students. Tickets are available in advance at DeBartolo Performing Arts Center ticket office by calling 574-631-2800 or visiting http://performin­garts.nd.edu. 
One of Shakespeare’s most beloved and enduring come­dies, “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” will be performed by five professional actors from London’s most prestigious stages as they bring to life every role in this family-friend­ly tale of love and mischief. 
Based in London and pro­duced on campuses throughout the nation by Shakespeare at Notre Dame, AFTLS sends a help us develop a more believable person on stage,” she said. 
Theater major Eva Cavadini is also looking forward to the master class. 
“I’m eager to learn whatev­er she has to offer me. As a young actress, I’m always learning new things,” Cavadini said. “This is a good opportunity for anyone who has a passion for acting.” 
While some girls may be nervous to work with the actress, Cavadini said, “I’m more eager rather than nerv­ous to work with her, after all, she is a person just like anyone else.” 
In addition, Tomlin will dine with theater majors that evening. Schmitt is excited for this opportunity, as it will provide one -on -one time between the actress and the students. 
“I am really excited and feel fortunate that Saint Mary’s gives us the opportunity to work and converse with such a talented and well-known artist,” Schmitt said. 
That evening at 7:30 p.m., Tomlin will hold a public lec­ture in O’Laughlin Auditorium of the Moreau Center for the Arts, which all students are encouraged to attend. 
Bridget Gartenmayer, a political science major, said, “Although I am not a theater major, I am still really excited to attend Tomlin’s lecture. It’s an opportunity to hear a dom­inant figure in the media world speak, and I’m going to take it.” 
The event is free to all Saint Mary’s, Notre Dame and Holy Cross students and faculty. However, tickets are still required to attend the event. Tickets are available at the Moreau Box Office. 
The event is also open to the general public with tickets costing $14 online or $13 at the window. 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
On weekends 

the cost rises to $9 an hour, with a maximum charge of $72. 
Hafner said users with iPhones can download an application to rent cars and open vehicles directly from their phone. 
“It’s important to know you have to be on time with returning the vehicle,” Hafner said. “They give you plenty of options to extend your time, but there is a fee associated with it.” 
Hafner said when partici­pants in the program reach the age of 21, they can share any Zipcar globally. 
“You can fly to Paris and use a Zipcar,” she said. 
The decision to work with Zipcar instead of other car-sharing programs was sim­ple, Hafner said. 
“Zipcar has been around the longest — they have the most robust program,” she said. “Their main business is car-sharing, not car rentals with some dealing in car-sharing. They have the largest program and the biggest fleet.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
Sigourney Weaver as this year’s Margaret Hill Endowed visiting artist. 
“Ms. Weaver was asked to be in a movie at the last minute,” Gwen O’Brien, direc­tor of media relations at Saint Mary’s College, said. 
However, she said she is excited that Tomlin agreed to fill Weaver’s space. 
Tomlin has starred in a number of films including “Nine to Five,” “Flirting with Disaster” and “I Heart Huckabees.” Her television career includes work on such shows as “Desperate Housewives,” and “The West Wing,” and she was the infa­mous voice of Miss Frizzle on the children’s show “The Magic School Bus.” 
Tomlin also works alongside last year’s visiting artist, Glenn Close, on the television series “Damages.” 
Tomlin’s career successes include a number of Tony, Peabody, and Emmy awards, as well as a Grammy award. 
Emily Schmitt, a theater major said she is excited to work with Tomlin. Tomlin will teach a master class to the theater majors at Saint Mary’s, according to Schmitt. 
“She’s going to help us work on our character sketches and 
London actors to puton Shakespeare 
new self-directed ensemble of five professional actors to the United States twice a year to universities across the nation. AFTLS, whose members hail from such prestigious theater companies as the Royal Shakespeare Company, the National Theatre of Great Britain and Shakespeare’s Globe Theatre, has called Notre Dame its American home since 2000. 
In addition to AFTLS, Shakespeare at Notre Dame also consists of the McMeel Family Chair in Shakespeare Studies, the Ryan Producing Artistic Director, the Notre Dame Shakespeare Festival, ancillary lectures and events, and library collections. Its mis­sion is to become the pre-emi­nent venue for the study and performance of the works of Shakespeare, providing Notre Dame and the wider communi­ty an on-campus culture steeped in the works of Shakespeare both on the page and on the stage. 

Center’s line up provides variety 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
Members of the Cultural Affairs Committee (CAC) at Saint Mary’s College have been working for months to deter­mine this year’s Moreau Center 
calendar and have recently announced the entertainment for the school year. 
This year’s line-up includes actress/comedi­an Lily Tomlin at the request of the Theater Department and Thomas Cahill at the request of the Humanistic Studies Department. The lineup also 
includes dance with the help of the Milwaukee Ballet II. 
Christopher Sallak, patron services and marketing manag­er for the College, noted, “[The Committee] is charged with bringing in a variety of pro­gramming in which to expose our students to over their four years at Saint Mary’s.” 
The Cultural Affairs Committee meets a year in advance of a new season to dis­cuss the potential line-up of shows. About a dozen mem­bers comprised of faculty, staff of the Performing Arts Series and selected the artists accord­ing to the charge from the Governance manual. We also select artists with respect to what the budget and the calen­dar permit.” 

The budget comes from Saint Mary’s itself with the help of an endowed fund from the Shaheen family. Operating budgets cover technical sup­plies, food, accommodation for the performer, hospitality and more. 
While they may consider past years in the selection process, this year’s line-up varies from previous in that a charity event (the jazz concert) is part of the Performing Arts Series. 
“Service and Saint Mary’s College go hand in hand. They seem right together,” Baxter said. The Moreau center has hosted charity events before; however, they were never part of the Performing Arts series. 
In addition, the Communicative Disorders department recommended physically challenged musician Brittany Maier. 
“We will be working with her department and other local agencies to make this event accessible to others who are physically challenged,” Sallak said. 
While changes to the line-up may have occurred, all changes are made in the interest of bringing variety to the students. 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousley@saintmarys.edu 
Oil rig explosion rocks Gulf again 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — An oil plat­form exploded and burned off the Louisiana coast Thursday, the second such disaster in the Gulf of Mexico in less than five months. This time, the Coast Guard said there was no leak, and no one was killed. 
The Coast Guard initially reported that an oil sheen a mile long and 100 feet wide had begun to spread from the site of the blast, about 200 miles west of the source of BP’s massive spill. But hours later, Coast Guard Cmdr. Cheri Ben-Iesau said crews were unable to find any spill. 
The company that owns the platform, Houston-based Mariner Energy, did not know what caused the fire. Mariner Energy’s Patrick Cassidy said he considered the incident a fire, not an explosion. 
“The platform is still intact and it was just a small portion of the platform that appears to be burned,” he said. 
Mariner officials said there were seven active production wells on the platform, and they were shut down shortly before the fire broke out. 
Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal said the company told him the fire began in 100 barrels of light oil condensate. 
The Coast Guard said Mariner Energy reported the oil sheen. 
In a public statement, the com­pany said an initial flyover did not show any oil. 
Photos from the scene showed at least five ships floating near the platform. Three of them were shooting great plumes of water onto the machinery. Light smoke could be seen drifting across the deep blue waters of the gulf. 
By late afternoon, the fire on the platform was out. 
The platform is in about 340 feet of water and about 100 miles south of Louisiana’s Vermilion Bay. Its location is considered shallow water, much less than the approximately 5,000 feet where BP’s well spewed oil and gas for three months after the April rig explo­sion that killed 11 workers. 
Responding to any oil spill in shallow water would be much easier than in deep water, where crews depend on remote-operated vehicles to access equipment on the sea floor. 
A Homeland Security update obtained by The Associated Press said the platform was pro­ducing 58,800 gallons of oil and 900,000 cubic feet of gas per day. The platform can store 4,200 gallons of oil. 
White House press secretary Robert Gibbs said the adminis­tration has “response assets ready for deployment should we receive reports of pollution in the water.” 
and students of Saint Mary’s meet to discuss recommenda­tions for the Performing Arts Series. 
Variety is key. Director of Special Events Richard Baxter noted that performances aren’t truly chosen based on the expected number of student 
“[The Committee] is charged with bringing in a variety of programming in which to expose our students to over their four years at Saint Mary’s.” 
Christopher Sallak patron services and marketing manager Saint Mary’s College 
turnout. Instead, he said they are chosen on bal­ance and diver­sity. 
In order to achieve this bal­ance, Baxter meets with all departments involved in the Performing Arts series. 
“Every fall, I meet with the Music, Dance, Theater, Art and Communication departments and talk about the calendar for 
the upcoming year,” Baxter said. 
The departments then dis­cussed whom they have visit­ing, and they pick the particu­lar dates they want the event to occur based on the newly formed calendar. Baxter then takes the calendar back to the Cultural Affairs Committee and they discuss the Performing Arts Series line-up. 
The committee does look to years past to help select the new year’s line-up. Baxter said, “We analyzed the past 10 years 


Cultural Passport gets students off campus 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
Assistant News Editor 
While many Notre Dame stu­dents may decide to study abroad and travel to far-off places, a new program on campus is encourag­ing students to seek out the mar­vels in the local community. 
First created last spring, the Cultural Passport program was developed through a partnership with the College of Science and Mayor Stephen Luecke of South Bend. The program gives every student a cultural passport fea­turing 14 destinations in the South Bend area where students are encouraged to visit. 
“I believe that all of our stu­dents need to graduate with not only a great education but actual­ly knowing something about the community that they’ve lived in for four years,” Dean Gregory Crawford of the College of Science said. 
When the program was con­ceived last year, it was initially only offered to a select group of students from the College of Science and was more of a “pro­totype” according to Crawford. However, the program has been expanded to include every under­graduate and graduate student at Notre Dame. 
Each passport features a description of the location, hours of operation and some destina­tions even offer special discounts for Notre Dame students. The goal of the passport format, according to Crawford, is to get students to visit as many of the destinations as possible. At every location a student shows the passport, they will receive a stamp on the passport for that organization. 
Crawford said he came up with the idea when he realized how few Notre Dame students ever venture into the South Bend com­munity. 
“Before starting this program, I visited most of the places that are in the passports and I was fasci­nated by all these various organi­zations,” he said. “I started work­ing with the Mayor’s office and together we compiled this list of fourteen locations that we encourage students to visit dur­ing their time here at Notre Dame.” 
Crawford and Mayor Luecke worked with each of the fourteen destinations to be included in the program. The Mayor’s Office agreed to print up a special cer­tificate for any student who receives a stamp from every loca­tion in the passport. But Crawford hopes that students participate in the program for different reasons. 
“This is a nice and easy way to engage the community, and a very important one,” he said. “I would hate to think that they would participate in this simply to receive a certificate.” 
Each College has the passports and students are encouraged to go to their dean’s office and pick one up. 
The Class of 2014 received their passports during Freshmen Orientation. Many of the fresh­men said the passports have made them see there is a lot more to South Bend than just Notre Dame. 
“I would have never thought to explore South Bend until I got my passport,” freshman Gina Rogari said. “I didn’t know we had some of those things around here.” 
Freshman Molly Shank said while she found the passport “helpful,” initially she wasn’t sure of its purpose. 
“There wasn’t a whole lot of explanation about the program,” she said. “They need to explain it better because I would definitely use it now.” 
Crawford said the program will be reviewed at the end of the year and feedback will be solicit­ed from the students who partici­pated in the program to see if any changes should be made. Crawford said he has little doubt that the program will help bring new outlook to the students who take advantage of the program and the city of South Bend. 
“Our students should be able to leave this community that they’ve lived in for four years and tell people all about it,” he said. “Besides, I think that when they visit some of these places, they will be blown away by what they see.” 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 

Illinois prison chief resigns 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO — Illinois’ prison chief, who became a political liability to Gov. Pat Quinn during an election year because of a secret prisoner release program he oversaw, is stepping down, the gover­nor said Thursday. 
Corrections Director Michael Randle is resigning as of Sept. 17 to pursue a new opportunity and his replacement will be named soon, Quinn said. 
Randle’s departure comes after a review last month of the early release program that found the corrections department didn’t consider possible dangers to the pub­lic when it tried to save money by letting prisoners out early, including some who were violent. 
Quinn canceled MGT Push 
— named for the “meritori­ous good time” that was granted to prisoners — after The Associated Press revealed the program’s exis­tence last fall. By then, some 1,700 inmates had been granted early release, includ­ing hundreds of prisoners with records of violence. 
Quinn, a Democrat who’s is running for his first full term as governor, heaped most of the blame on Randle, and Randle said Quinn had ordered that violent offend­ers not be part of the pro­gram. 
“I appreciate Director Randle’s dedicated service to the state of Illinois during these challenging times,” Quinn said in a statement. Randle was appointed cor­rections chief in May 2009. 
Randle’s office declined an interview request. The Chicago Tribune was the first to report his pending depar­ture. 
Randle is leaving amid calls for his ouster by Quinn’s Republican opponent in the governor’s race, state Sen. Bill Brady, of Bloomington. Quinn has repeatedly said he would not fire Randle, although he acknowledged he considered it. 
“Michael Randle should have been fired long ago. Allowing the top official responsible for one of Illinois’ worst public safety failures to simply depart state govern­ment without reprimand shows the Quinn Administration to be a noth­ing but a revolving door of reckless ineptitude,” Brady spokeswoman Patty Schuh said in a statement. 
The controversy over the early release program was a major issue in the February Democratic primary for gov­ernor that Quinn only nar­rowly won over state Comptroller Dan Hynes. 
Under the early release program, inmates were given time off as soon as they walked through the prison doors. The Corrections Department dropped its poli­cy of requiring prisoners to serve at least 61 days before getting any time off for good behavior. 

ND utilizes the iPad 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
As the academic year kicks into high gear, many students have heard of the buzz sur­rounding the “iPad class.” Inside of Corey Angst’s proj­ect management class, the use of Apple’s popular gadget allows students to take advantage of the iPad’s capa­bilities in a unique way. 
The seven-week course is the first of several pilot class­es that will use 50 University-owned iPads as means to determine the role e-publish­ing technology should play in the classroom, Angst, assis­tant professor of manage­ment, said. 
These classes are the result of Notre Dame’s e-publishing working group, which formed in March as a partnership between the Office of Information Technologies’ Academic Technologies, Hesburgh Libraries, the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, the Office of Institutional Equity, the Office of Sustainability, the Mendoza College of Business (MCOB), the Law School and the Center for the Study of Languages and Cultures (CSLC). 
Academic technologies con­sultant Jon Crutchfield said the group’s main goal is to determine what an “e-pub­lishing ecosystem” would look like at Notre Dame. 
“All these groups had seen the transition from printed text to digital texts for years,” Crutchfield said. “We knew the iPad was coming out last April which would help increase acceptance of e-readers and e-books, and the iPad is multifunctional enough to justify its cost.” 
The $499 iPads were fund­ed by OIT, Hesburgh Libraries, MCOB, the Law School and the CSLC, allow­ing students to use them at no personal cost. 
Angst and Crutchfield said the iPad’s color display, mul­timedia capabilities and Internet accessibility give it an advantage over other black-and-white e-readers that have been unsuccessfully piloted at other universities. 
In contrast with those failed pilots, Angst has received vir­tually no complaints about the iPads and their role in the class. 
“Students work on real-world projects in this team-based course,” Angst said. “Besides using the iPad as an e-reader, they are probably using shared calendars to coordinate their schedules and about half the students type notes on their iPads dur­ing class.” 
Angst’s students also responded positively to the transition to a paperless, iPad-based course. 
“I’m actually surprised how much I like reading our text­book from the iPad,” senior Jordan Rockwell said. “Another awesome feature is an app called ‘Dropbox’ that syncs your files added from any computer to the iPad so you can instantly access your own files or Professor Angst’s.” 
Angst is heading a research project that will assess the effectiveness of e-readers as classroom resources and incorporate data from his class and future pilot cours­
t o b e e n g a g e d in South Bend,” S o l e r s aid . “ It w ill gi ve them  “This is not a marketing plan. It’s not simply an  m u n i t y m e e t i n g s i t t a k e s p a r t in.  
m o r e o f oppo rt u n ity  a n to  awareness plan.”  “ T h e r e i s n o o f f i c i a l  
experience the p o s i t i v e s o f  Catherine Soler  c o n n e c t i o n but there are  
S o u t h B e n d . . . S t u d e n t s c a n take the char- Student body president  many shared g o a l s , ” B e l l said.  

acteristics of Notre Dame As for the community ’s students that everyone role in the process, Nick admires and bring them into Ruof, chief of staff, just the community.” hopes community members 
“We all hear about how are receptive to the efforts the Notre Dame experience and initiatives undertaken stays with you long after by students. graduation, but part of that “We hope the community es. 

“This is still a project man­agement course,” Angst said. “But it’s the first part of a project that we’ll continue to study as iPads are distributed to different students.” 
Crutchfield said that after Angst’s class concludes, another pilot class from either First Year of Studies, the Law School or the CSLC will begin using iPads in their instruction. 
“The other courses will try to replicate Professor Angst’s research methodology in order to provide him with a rich data set from a diverse group of students of different majors and age groups,” Crutchfield said. 
The iPads may be tested in the future in different set­tings at Notre Dame, such as making iPads available in the library for class-related videos, Crutchfield said. 
“We are interested in find­ing out how e-publishing technology will impact how people create, distribute, read and share content in terms of courses, library loans and the bookstore,” Crutchfield said. 
Crutchfield said the sus­tainability of e-reader tech­nology would be assessed in terms of savings from e-books, energy efficiency and the recyclability of iPads. 
“You can make educated guesses about how the tech­nology will work out, but until you get it in the hands of real people, in real courses you don’t know the full capa­bilities and limitations of it,” Crutchfield said. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
opens 
up to us, at least gives us a chance to show who we really are,” he said. 

Some of the measures already enacted under BeND include the distribu­tion of “good neighbor guides” to off-campus stu­dents through the Senior Class Council, promotion of the Transpo program, a vol­untary listserv for RAs to pass along information to 

on 
-campus students and cooperative efforts with the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education to help distribute more educational materials and tips to students. 

“This is not a marketing plan. It ’s not simply an awareness campaign. It’s really multifaceted,” Soler said. “We want BeND to be branded on everything we do. This is really going to be the platform for all of our efforts to be good neigh ­bors, to reach out to the community and to really just enhance the experience 

of 
a Notre Dame student both on and off campus.” 


Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
Arrests 
continued from page 1 
body’s security.” 
Student body president Catherine Soler met with the SBPD Thursday night, and said the aim of this meeting was to decrease tensions between the student body and law enforcement officers. 
“They are going to continue to do their job, but with a bit more of an understanding of the student’s perspective,” student body president Catherine Soler said after Thursday night’s meeting. “There is definitely going to be more discretion in the situ­ations involving arrests and ticketing.” 
Doyle said the University met with police because stu­dents repeatedly shared sto­ries in which they felt their rights or dignity had been violated when interacting with law enforcement go home, Trent said. 
For example, if a group of people are stopped on Washington Street, two miles from campus, they would have a lengthy walk back to campus after being issued a citation and could potentially get into trouble. 
Police have also noticed younger students appear “profoundly drunk,” even when they have low blood alcohol contents, because of their lack of experience with alcohol. 
“We’re not in a situation any longer where we can just shrug and allow 50 or 100 students in a residential neighborhood to just dis ­perse,” Trent said. 
Trent expects complaints will subside once the weather cools down because parties will move indoors and resi­dents will sleep with their windows shut. 
Going into the first home football weekend, there will be 25 South Bend police offi­cers patrolling the 
officers. “We need to make sure city Friday “It’s the and Saturday 
that our students’ rights

pattern to me night, Soler that is of most and their dignity is said. 
concern,” he protected and that’s why Indiana said. “We State Excise 
we went down to meet

need to make Police
with them face to face.” 

sure that our Commander students’ Lt. Tim rights and Cl eveland
Fr. Tom Doyle 

their dignity is said excise 
vice president

protected and police will 
Student Affairs 

that’s why we went down to meet with them face to face.” 
But Doyle also said there are two sides to every story and used the University’s meeting with police Tuesday as an opportunity to hear from the other side. 
“They have a very hard job to do and we understand that,” he said. 
Doyle said SBPD was “receptive” and Soler agreed. She said student government plans to meet with police again within two weeks. 
Both the University and police recognized the atten­tion to, and punishment for, alcohol related violations this year is different than it has been in the past. 
SBPD spokesman Capt. Phil Trent attributes this change to circumstances, rather than a “conspiracy.” 
Trent said Notre Dame stu­dent off-campus housing used to be concentrated around Eddy Street and Notre Dame Avenue, as were the bars and night spots for students. Now, students live in more residential neighborhoods and parties draw more com­plaints. 
Trent said officers are responding to noise com ­plaints and are “not trying to hinder or put a stop to the college experience.” 
“From our perspective, we’re getting calls from peo­ple and they’re saying ‘I’m trying to sleep and there’s a mob behind my house,’” he said. 
The recent trend to incar­cerate students — rather than issue citations — stems from the fact that police hold a cer­tain amount of liability for students who are allowed to also be in St. 
Joseph County this weekend, but does not have plans to step up enforcement. 
He added that it is not excise officers’ protocol to incarcerate people for under­age drinking, but certain con­ditions may provoke it. 
“If they’re not cooperative or they’re too intoxicated, then I’ll leave that to my offi­cers discretion as whether to incarcerate,” he said. 
Cleveland also encouraged students to work with law enforcement officers and said “a little cooperation goes a long way.” 
“I expect my officers to be respectful of those that they’re citing or arresting, and likewise we expect those who are being issued sum­mons or arrested to be respectful as well,” he said. 
Doyle asked students, espe­cially those who are under­age, to be “model citizens” in the community this weekend. 
“Our hope is that we can get through this weekend without significant incident or con­flict, that we can start to build the kinds of communi­cation channels between administration and students and law enforcement where we’re not so much in conflict with one another,” he said. 
Soler said the student body can expect an e-mail from student government detailing the meeting with SBPD some­time today. 
“There were lots of conver­sations we can work on with­in student government that can lead to greater changes,” she said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
BeND 
continued from page 1 
to be conscious of how they are presenting themselves and the University, to act respectfully toward the community, and to make more of an effort to become part of that community is we represent Notre Dame on campus and off campus, even when we’re home over the summer, ” Bell said. “The same way it stays with us long after we leave then, it stays with us long after we leave campus.” 
themselves.  
“T h e progra m a s ks  stu - 
d e n t s  t o  b e  m i n d f u l  a n d  
r e s p e c t f u l  . . .  
and be willing  

While there are no com­munity or Notre Dame administration leaders directly involved in the efforts, student government plans to present BeND to the Community/Campus Advisory Coalition as well as the other various com-


Accounts 
continued from page 1 
difficult, you know, and rough and rude,” she said. “And they were kind of taunting … They read his ID and they said ‘Oh, he’s a month away, too bad.’” 
Kemnetz said she tried to talk to the police officers and requested that they give her boyfriend a citation rather than take him into custody. 
“I was trying to be as coopera­tive as possible,” she said. “But the fact that they made him spend the night in jail just seems over the top.” 
Her boyfriend declined to comment. 
This case is one of around 70 arrests related to off-campus alcohol consumption since the weekend of Aug. 21. 
“It’s the one thing that every­one’s talking about,” senior Jack Winnike said. “You walk into classes and you overhear people talking about the police and everyone is like, ‘Oh what are you going to do this weekend? I don’t know.’” 
Winnike, 21, was present when police arrested eight stu­dents for minor consuming and two students for furnishing alco­hol to minors at a Washington Street home early Tuesday morning. 
Some of Winnike’s friends were arrested at the Washington Street party, which consisted of about 30 students. According to the police report, officers arrived at the home in reference to a large party. One officer told the students he could hear their music from the street, but Winnike said no music was play­ing when the police arrived. 
“One of the things that always pops into my mind is people say the law is the law and the police have to enforce it regardless,” he said. “That whole concept is really just absurd because if you got a ticket for jay walking, you would be irate. You expect to be able to drive a 37 in a 35 with­out being pulled over … To say that they just have to uphold the law and that’s it and they can’t use their judgment in terms of what’s best for public safety, that’s just not accurate.” 
Senior Liam Rhatigan was also present at the Washington Street party Monday night, and said seven or eight police cars arrived at the scene. He said when they asked students for across an underage student, their identification, he said, they Stavole said one of them said: told 21 year olds, like Rhatigan, “Oh, we got a winner,” although to leave. that student had not been drink­

“And then they just told us to ing. walk home, which doesn’t make While police were there, they sense because one of the rea-also received a call asking for sons they said for bringing the backup in a pursuit chase, kids who weren’t 21 to jail was Stavole said, to which they that they weren’t allowed to responded that they were busy walk around unsafe neighbor-busting a party. hoods,” he said. There were two underage stu-
Rhatigan said he felt that dents at the party who had been every student at the party was drinking, Stavole said. They respectful to the police officers, were handcuffed, taken to the but the incident has made him, police car, but released with 
as an of-age,  citations.  
o f f -c a m p u s  For  Stavole,  
student, par- recent arrests  
ticularly cau­tious. “As a house member and a  “The fact that they made him spend the night in jail just seems  mark a change from his previ­ous three years at Notre Dame.  
potential keg buyer, I think I  over the top.”  He said he was present at par- 
would be very wary of having under 21 year  Krissy Kemnetz senior  ties during his freshman year when police  

olds at my house and drinking from my drinks, especially during football season, when in the past police have been most active,” he said. 
Senior Michael Browder, who witnessed an arrest of one stu­dent outside an off-campus party the weekend before class­es started, and said she was arrested despite seeming coop­erative. 
“There was no scruffle,” he said. “There was nothing. She just kind of took it.” 
When he tried to approach police to offer to turn down the music or send people inside the house, he said he was interrupt­ed and sent away. 
Browder said in light of recent events like these, he would advise underclassmen to stay on campus. 
“It’s way too risky to go off campus during the current cir­cumstances,” he said. 
Luke Stavole, also a senior, said South Bend Police broke up a party at his off-campus house the weekend before classes began. When police arrived based on a noise complaint, he said most of the estimated 40 people at the house were 21. 
When officers asked which students were underage and no one responded, Stavole said the officer said: “We’ll see about that,” Stavole said. The officer proceeded to check identifica­tions. 
When the police did come simply asked 
students to dis­

perse from the party. This year, he has not heard of that type of party bust. 
“It’s to a point where I don’t want my friends who are under­age to come over my house,” he said. “The situation’s just very tense between police and stu­dents.” 

Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
Season 
continued from page 1 
ing.” 
Freshman Jay Dolan echoed McDonough’s sentiments, say­ing Kelly’s personality seems to be a strength he brings to the football program. 
“I think with a new coach we’ll have a winning attitude, so we should do well this sea­son,” he said. 
“I am excited to see what Coach Kelly will do with the team,” sophomore Mark Sonnik said. “However, I think that it will take some time to implement his football schemes.” 
Sonnik said Saturday’s game would probably be a very com­petitive one because of the close final score of last year’s game against Purdue. 
“I am hoping this will be a 
good year since 
it is my last one 
as a student,” 
As freshmen, senior Jake 
“I am excited to see

McDonough Pardo said. “I 
what Coach Kelly will

and Dolan are think that we excited for the do with the team.” will do better new experience than we have of attending an the last few 
Mark Sonnik 

Irish football years.” 
sophomore

game as a Pardo said in 
member of the Notre Dame community. 
“I attended one game in the past, but now I’m really excit­ed to actually be part of the student section,” she said. 
Dolan said being part of the student body means the game will be special for him. 
“I have been to games before, but as a student it has to be a completely awesome and different experience,” he said. 
Some, however, view the season with a more cautious optimism. 
addition to a 
new coach, a lot 
of new faces on the field are what excite him about the team. 
“We lost some key star play­ers at the end of last year, but the players that have replaced them this year seem pretty good,” he said. 
Pardo was a little more opti­mistic for his last home open­er. 
“It’s Purdue. We’re going to win easily.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 




The Observer 

V ew po  n t
page 10 Friday, September 3, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
That kid in class 
So syllabus week is over and now it’s time to actually pay attention and get down to business in class. Unfortunately, this also means interacting with our fel­low students. Don’t get me wrong, there are a lot of people that I meet in my classes with whom I end up forming substantial friend­ships. 
On the other hand, there is always at least one person in every class that I live to despise. And I think that many of you out there know what I’m talking about. 
In every class there is always that one person that every single other student in the class secretly wants to kill. This per­son is either uber-annoying, thinks they’re the most intelligent person out­side of Harvard, or they really think they they’re doing Notre Dame a favor by gracing the campus with their sheer awesomeness. 
Barf. 
I know that everyone reading this can think of at least one person in class who annoys the bejesus out of them and everyone else. These are individuals who refuse to use any words that have less than three syllables and are constantly going on about how busy they are. Not only that, but they expect everyone else to care that they are so busy because, in case you didn’t know, their lives are so unbelievably important that it affects the balance of the entire universe. 
If you can’t think of anyone who fits this description, newsflash! You are that person. Hate to break it to you, but everyone in all your classes has joined a Facebook group about why they hate you and have discussed finding a rule in duLac that allows students to eject a classmate based on the fact that said stu­dent is a humongous windbag who makes his peers legitimately reconsider the Geneva convention. 
And I can admit, that I may have possi­bly been this person at one point in my life. Well, maybe two points. I’m of the I-ask-way-too-many-questions-and-feel­that-I-have-the-most-to-say variety. However, it only took me about two weeks to realize that my classmates weren’t returning my smiles when I saw them on the quad. 
Bright side of being that person, every­one in class most definitely knew my name. Bad news, I’m pretty sure it was always associated with an expletive of some sort. I’ve since reformed my ways. 
What’s really depressing is these type of annoying imbeciles aren’t going away anytime soon. Just today, as I was having a nice and completely shallow conversa­tion with my girlfriend before class start­ed, some kid thought it would be a good idea to engage in a conversation about modern representations of race in the new media that reflects common stereo­types. For a few seconds I contemplated how much damage could be inflicted with my ballpoint pen. 
Basically, we’re stuck with these people for the rest of our lives. Because annoy­ing students turn into annoying cowork­ers, who turn into annoying neighbors at the retirement home. So keep quiet, stay strong and really work on perfecting your death stare. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 


What has changed? 
One topic has dominated campus conversation for the past week, and it has nothing to do with the start of fall classes, the Dillon Hall pep rally or Brian Kelly’s new spread offense. 
Two weeks into the school year, more than 70 students have already been arrested on charges related to off-campus alcohol consumption — a number so alarmingly high that University officials and local law enforcement have begun conversations aimed at mediating the grow­ing tension. 
The first question has to be, why? What has changed 
since we left school in May that has caused the number of off-campus arrests — not citations — to rise so rapidly? 
There’s been nothing to suggest off-cam­pus student behavior has drastically changed. The laws haven’t changed, either; underage drinking is still illegal, and indi­vidual police officers can still use their dis­

cretion when deciding whether to arrest or cite those in violation of the law. 
Lt. Tim Cleveland of the Indiana State Excise Police told The Observer that if students are not cooperative, were previously arrested for underage drinking or are “too intoxicated to walk,” the police generally choose to incar­cerate. 
He also said those who cooperate with police are more likely to be cited, not arrested. But it seems highly unlikely that all of the 70-plus stu­dents fell into one of those three categories. So, we return to the question: Why? What has changed? It seems that the only change lies in how police officers have exercised their discretion. 
Fr. Tom Doyle, vice president for Student Affairs, may have summed it up best when he told The Observer Wednesday, “Things just seem different than they have in previous years.” 
Things do seem different, and students have been left in the dark as to why. If local law enforcement has changed its policies or attitudes, they have not communi­cated these changes to students — at least not through words. 
Even more concerning than the recent trend for officers to arrest, not cite, violators is the palpable sense of fear and uncertainty that these incidents have instilled in the student body. 
Campus is buzzing about this issue. It is by far the most talked-about topic in class and in the dining halls. But while students have plenty to say about it, most are baf­fled as to what they should do. 
Several students who have had interactions with law 
enforcement brought their stories to Doyle and 
others within the University and student gov­
ernment, yet only four have been willing to go 
on the record with The Observer. 

The fact that these students are hesitant to 
have their names in print demonstrates the 
atmosphere of fear that pervades campus. 
This should not be the student body’s foremost feeling heading into the first home football weekend. 
Doyle said he has noticed a pattern in student stories where “their rights or their dignity is being violated,” which prompted the University to engage in discussions with law enforcement and city officials. But where will those discussions lead — and, almost as important, when will students know the results? 
There appears to be no overnight solution for a prob­lem that seemed to arise overnight. 
While we hope the recent “us vs. them” mentality will eventually subside as the University becomes more involved with local officials, students are still left in a precarious position — especially heading into the first home football weekend. 
Doyle’s advice: “I think we all have to reflect on what’s happened the past two weekends and say the prudent course of action for students would be to be model citi­zens in the community, especially those who are not of age.” 
Those may not be the words some students want to hear. But with so much uncertainty, what else are we to do? 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“They can conquer who believe they can.” 
Virgil Roman epic poet 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Take responsibility 
Share the Alma Mater 
So far there have been multiple articles in The Observer and other news sources about tension between 
I am from the class of 1975. I love the Notre Dame band. Notre Dame students and the police. The students quot-We sit and wait on the north side of the stadium for an hour ed in The Observer articles have only seemed to express just to hear and watch the Band march in to the stadium. their frustration that the South Bend Police Department When I was there, the student body really did not sing the is wasting their time on such trivial things like underage 
Alma Mater. On the last home game of the season, seniors drinking. If that were the case that would be frustrating, but in every article I’ve read the parties in question
would sing it for the first time. seemed to already have illegal activity happening. A pre-
I think it is great that all now sing it. For all the years vious article in the Aug. 27 edition of The Observer dis-until Weis, the end of the game was the highlight: The band cussed a fight breaking out at a party and moving intoplayed the Alma Mater for all of the Notre Dame community. 
the street. In addition, the front page story of the Aug.
What a moving moment. 
30 edition cited a party where students were trespassingThen during the Weis years, it was played just in front of into a nearby pool.
the student body (and for a TV moment). A move by him to I agree that the SBPD should not be wasting their timetry to ingratiate himself to the students? Yet, what a travesty on such things as underage drinking at parties and pettyto all of us alumni! The rest of the stadium can barely hear crimes like trespassing, however instead of being out-the Alma Mater. In a way, it was insulting to us. We are part raged that they are, maybe the student body should takeof the community, we contribute lots of money, we love Notre some responsibility. Neither of these parties would have Dame. Many times, I see young alumni at their first game been an issue if students were not committing crimes.
since graduation, they wait for the Alma Mater, and then The police cannot just simply ignore a crime in thethey can’t even hear it! Why should a TV Moment ruin it for assumption that a larger crime is happening elsewhere.
the rest? Let’s show the country that Notre Dame is more They are obligated to respond to the crimes they knowthan the wonderful student body. They should understand are happening.
that once they graduate and then go to a game, this beauti-Fellow students, instead of being angry about theful part of Notre Dame is lost. I hope the students under-
police doing their job, stop forcing them to waste theirstand and want all of us to hear and sing this homage (and 
time. Grow up a little and take responsibility for your even a prayer) to Our Lady. actions. If we quit committing these crimes then thePlease bring back the real tradition of playing the Alma Police might have time to stop those “worse crimes” thatMater for all the Notre Dame community? we are so concerned about. 
Frank Keres Eli Reichenbach 
alumnus junior Class of 1975 off campus Sept. 1 Sept. 1 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Knowledge speaks, but wisdom listens.” 
Jimi Hendrix 
U.S. rock musician 
The Observer 

V ew po  n t
Friday, September 3, 2010 page 11 
The system is broke; Let’s fix it 
Can someone please start a charity fund that donates money to help the unemployed get job training for every time a politician says he or she is not a part of Washington culture? My first thoughts every time a guy in a suit, Chris excuse me pleated Rhodenbaughkhakis and a work­ing man’s collared 
The system 
shirt, says he wants 
is broke;
to be sent to 
Let’s fx it 
Washington to change the culture of D.C. is how stupid must the U.S. public be to buy this as genuine? Despite your political beliefs you are likely equally baffled as to why politi­cians can say with a straight face that they will “shake up Washington.” Yet, they will get away with it and win their elections (Only seven incumbents in all of Congress have lost in a pri­mary so far this year), not because people are dumb, but because there are no real options. Pessimism is attacking the soul of the United States. We need to start finding ways to stop it. 
The journey towards saving our democracy from the obsession of short-term political benefit versus long-term health for our country is a rigorous one, but it must start with challenging the two-party system. I’ve spent the last three years of my life campaigning for candidates, and then fighting issue-by-issue trying to win legislative battles to move this country forward. After two years of the Obama Administration I am far from empty-handed, but enormous issues like the environment and immigration policy are untouched and each major bill passed is defined by being sub-opti­mal. Thanks to the two-party monop­oly on the system and a lot of money changing hands in D.C., we have bloat­ed bills addressing national crises like health care and Wall Street reform that no one understands except the lobbyists that wrote them. 

I have concluded that instead of advocating incessantly for certain issues, the roots of legislative failure must be addressed. There needs to be real political competition injected into our system. While a number of solu­tions need to be put forth, like public financing for elections, making it more difficult for members of Congress and their staffs to become lobbyists, and filibuster reform, I am most intrigued by the concept of ranked-choice vot­ing. 
Ranked-choice voting is when a voter has a first choice, second choice, and sometimes a third choice vote. The system is used in various countries around the world and by a selection of cities and counties in the U.S., most notably the city of San Francisco. Ranked-choice voting tallies all of the first choice votes and if a candidate 
LETTERS TO THE EDIT R 
‘Playing judge’ 
Dear Ryan Kreager, 

Your whole letter (“Anger at SB Police is hypocritical”, Sept. 1) was wrong, but I’m going to focus on one part, which was so wrong that I’m writing this letter when I could be out encouraging under­age drinking, or other fun leisure activities. 
You attempted to make the point that it would be a bad thing for police officers to decide whether to arrest people or not. That’s their job. It is their responsibility as officers of the law to make educated decisions about situations. When someone gets a warning for driv­ing over the speed limit, the police officer made a conscious decision not to issue a ticket. This would fall, I guess, under crimes that are “simply ignored.” 
If a police office mentioned that he or she didn’t drag a dozen 20 year olds to jail for underage drinking because they were dealing with an armed robbery, I would say they were doing their job. 
The last thing we want is not the police “playing judge,” which happens every day. The last thing we want is the police officers playing judge and making the wrong choice — which they did this weekend and again on Monday night. 
The last thing we want is a self-righteous, illogical diatribe in the paper. You sound stressed. Chill out. Have a beer. 
Franci Rooney 
junior McGlinn Hall Sept. 2 

has more than 50 percent of those votes he or she is victorious. In the likely event that no one gets a majority the lowest vote getter is eliminated and the second choice votes get allo­cated according to the voters’ selec­tions. This process is repeated until a candidate gets more than 50 percent of the total votes. 
Ranked-choice voting would bring a desperately needed breath of fresh air to the predictable and depressing back and forth that dominates U.S. politics today. Party lines would begin to blur as candidates emerged that gave vot­ers real choices on the most important issues of our time. Third party candi­dates would at a very minimum inject new ideas and approaches into debates. With ranked-choice voting candidates will less frequently give in to attacking their opponents because they will not want to alienate potential second choice votes. Also, the dissolv­ing integrity of U.S. media could be slowed as people started to regain interest in debates. Third party candi­dates and ideas would throw a wrench into today’s news cycle of partisan pundits spewing the daily talking points. 
Having massive “big tent” parties does not serve the interests of the peo­ple effectively. During the 2008 elec­tion people demanded change, trans­parency, and accountability from their government. The problem was that such a large and politically diverse majority of Democrats were elected to Congress that the debates over every major piece of legislation took place almost entirely within the walls of Congress or the West Wing. The media simply chased behind reporting erroneously and selectively on polls that fit into their particular narrative. 
I am not writing this article because I despise the Democratic and Republican parties. I am a Democrat and identify with the left in U.S. poli­tics, but I believe in a real market­place of ideas. More diversity in ideol­ogy on Election Day would improve both parties by making them more accountable to their voters. So instead of blaming President Obama or Minority Leaders Mitch McConnell and John Boehner for the state of politics in the U.S. start focusing on the real culprit, a flawed system of political parties and rules of governance. We need to start thinking critically about how we can reform our political sys­tem to protect the future of our democracy. 
Chris Rhodenbaugh is a senior political science major and editor of www.LeftysLastCry.com, Notre Dame’s Progressive Headquarters. He can be contacted at crhodenb@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

A different interaction 
Starting with the incident on July 17, and certainly picking up following the first full weekend back at school, Notre Dame students’ “interactions” with South Bend police has been the talk of campus. Some of the debate has come to focus more on the issue of whether underage drinking is a crime worth pursuing by the police when other crime is rampant in the city. To those who think that certain Notre Dame students say the South Bend police is oppressive just because they want a free pass to drink underage, I offer a story that isn’t about to make the front page of The Observer. 
A friend of mine who lives off campus was riding his bike home after dark Monday night when he passed a South Bend police car, which then pulled him over. The first thing the officers asked him was “Are you a Notre Dame student?” Such a question seems prejudicial and probably is not rele­vant to any crime or violation that might have occurred. After taking their time to tell him why he was pulled over, during which he was also patted down, he was informed that he was stopped because his bike did not have a light. Instead of perhaps being given a warning, he was then given a $119 fine “for his own safety.” 
I would love to hear from anyone who feels safer knowing those two officers collected more money for the city because of a missing light on a bike. 
Stephen Siena 
senior Keough Hall Sept. 2 
No hypocrisy in expecting safety 
“If there was no underage drinking, there would be no underage drinking busts, and the cops would have that much more time to serve and protect against more serious crimes” ... Why in the world should the police prioritize this way? Allow me to rephrase with a little hyperbole (since I have already participated in "hypocrisy of the highest order.” “If there were no jaywalking, there would be no jaywalking busts, and the cops would have that much more time to serve and protect against murderers” ... Shouldn’t our police protect us against major crimes before protecting against minor crimes? Is it unreasonable to expect to be protected from others before being protected from our­selves? Breaking into a vehicle is a perfect example of a crime that is harmful to the rest of society. Unless drunks are spilling out of a house or there is an unacceptable amount of noise coming from a party, there is no real harm that is being brought to society by throwing a party. Once the police force decides to protect us from external harm, I will stop complying about them misappropriating their resources. 
I am not saying it is a good idea to break the law. I am not saying you should ever fight a police officer, especially one with a warrant. I also understand that the excise police are not responsible for general law enforcement, so I am not concerned with their actions in this case. What I am saying is that we should not feel terrified by both local crime and the local police force. I don’t think it is hypocritical to expect safety in my community while partaking in socially harmless behavior in the comfort of my pri­vate residence. 
Michael Carter 
senior off campus Sept. 2 
The Observer 

Scen e
page 12 Friday, September 3, 2010 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scen e
Friday, September 3, 2010 page 13 
Observer File Photo 



BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

MLB 

Yankees shut out Athletics for four-game sweep 
Konerko hits a three-run home run for second win over Indians; Five runs in second inning lead Boston to split series 
temperature. The sunny weather including A’s manager Bob Geren 
Associated Press 

figures to change in a hurry for and a trainer. Jerry Blevins 
NEW YORK — CC Sabathia Friday’s home game against relieved and recorded an out pitched one-hit ball for eight Toronto, with Hurricane Earl before throwing a pitch, trapping innings to earn his major league-expected to bring rain. Derek Jeter off first base. leading 19th win, fill-in Curtis Winning in the Bronx has Granderson followed with a Granderson homered twice and become almost automatic for home run, then hit a two-run shot the New York Yankees beat the Sabathia — he’s now 16-0 in 21 for his 17th homer in the seventh. Oakland Athletics 5-0 Thursday starts at Yankee Stadium since the This was his sixth multihomer for a four-game sweep. 2009 All-Star break. Beating the game. 
Sabathia (19-5) breezed on a A’s had been more of a problem — A’s reliever Justin James made steamy afternoon, nicked only by he began the day 6-8 with a 5.36 his big league debut in the eighth Mark Ellis’ clean single leading off ERA in 20 career starts against and gave up Austin Kearns’ RBI the second. Jonathan Albaladejo them. single. completed the combined one-hit-Dallas Braden (9-10) left in the ter in the ninth. sixth inning with heat-related White Sox 6, Indians 4 
Granderson hit a solo homer cramps. He allowed two hits and For the second straight game, and a two-run shot as a replace-slowly walked off trailing 1-0. He Manny Ramirez watched from a ment for Nick Swisher, who left was coming off a four-hit shutout few feet away as one of his new after one inning because of a stiff at Texas. teammates hit a game-winning left knee. Jorge Posada also home-Braden started against the homer. red a day after an animated ejec-Yankees for the first time since his Claimed off waivers by Chicago tion, propelling the Yankees to dustup with Alex Rodriguez on for his renowned power, Ramirez their sixth straight victory. April 22 in Oakland. A-Rod provided only a bloop a single in 
New York increased its AL East angered Braden by crossing the his debut but he was on deck lead over idle Tampa to 1½ mound while returning to first when Paul Konerko hit a three-games. Oakland’s loss gave AL base after a foul ball, and the two run homer in the eighth inning to West-leading Texas a 10-game later sniped at each other and the give the White Sox a win and bulge. A’s sold T-shirts printed with “Get three-game sweep of the 
Sabathia matched his career Off My Mound.” Cleveland Indians on Wednesday. high for victories and won his Braden and Rodriguez have Ramirez’s debut with the White sixth start in a row overall. He since patched up their differences. Sox was anything but a hit for was in trouble just once, after a hit They didn’t face each other this seven innings. Chicago trailed 4-1 batter and a walk to start the time, with Rodriguez still on the going into the eighth, but the eighth, but retired the next three disabled list. White Sox rallied after the Indians hitters in order. Posada launched his 17th home pulled Carlos Carrasco, who was 
The big lefty struck out five, run in the second. He trotted past making his first start of 2010. walked three and exchanged a fist third-base umpire Dana DeMuth With the intimidating Ramirez bump with Eduardo Nunez after without incident — a night earlier, waiting in the on-deck circle, Chicago did get a home run runs in each of his last four out-the rookie made a nice play to Posada was ejected by DeMuth Konerko connected with two outs from its other Ramirez, shortstop ings. start the sixth. Ellis’ hit was an after arguing a called third strike, off Justin Germano (0-1) as the Alexei, whose solo homer started Jonathan Papelbon worked the opposite-field stroke through the then drew a line in the dirt with White Sox improved to 3-0 on a the comeback in the eighth. He ninth for his 35th save, and sec-right side. his bat to show where the pitch 10-game trip that will next take added a sacrifice fly in the ninth. ond in two nights. Baltimore got 
Sabathia began his day by fan-was wide. them to Boston, where Ramirez Alex Rios also homered for the runners on second and third ning Coco Crisp, who took an awk-Braden bent over after a pitch in may not be welcomed back with White Sox. with one out before Papelbon ward swing at 92 mph heat, which the sixth, and suddenly there were open arms by Red Sox fans. Before the rally, Chicago hardly struck out Cesar Izturis and exactly matched the gametime a lot of people on his mound, On Tuesday night, Ramirez was looked like a team in playoff con-rookie Josh Bell. 
on deck in the ninth and ready to tention. The White Sox made Papelbon is the only pitcher in pinch hit when A.J. Pierzynski hit three errors and struggled against major league history to record at a tiebreaking, three-run homer in Carrasco, recalled from Triple-A least 35 saves in each of his first Chicago’s 4-3 win. Columbus to start the series finale. five seasons. In 38 career 
Chicago reliever Tony Pena (4-2) He allowed six hits and three runs appearances against the Orioles, pitched three innings after replac-in 7 1-3 innings. he has 30 saves and an 0.75 ing Freddy Garcia, who left after ERA. four with a stiff back. Rookie Chris Red Sox 6, Orioles 4 Baltimore starter Brad Sale, the team’s first-round draft Adrian Beltre homered to Bergesen (6-10) gave up five pick, pitched the ninth for his first spark a five-run second inning, runs, two earned, eight hits and career save. The left-hander and the Boston Red Sox beat the a career-high five walks in 5 1-3 struck out Shin Soo-Choo with the Baltimore Orioles on Thursday innings. He was 3-0 in six starts tying runs on base to end it. night to salvage a .500 road trip. since July 26. 
Wearing his familiar No. 99 and David Ortiz drove in two runs Down 5-0 and limited to two dreadlocks yet to be trimmed to and J.D. Drew had three hits for hits over the first five innings, the team appearance standards, the Red Sox, who moved within Orioles chased Matsuzaka with a Ramirez went 1-for-3 in his return 6½ games of idle Tampa Bay in four-run sixth. Nick Markakis hit to the AL after 2 1/2 seasons with the AL wild-card race. an RBI single and Ty Wigginton the Dodgers. He grounded out in Boston dropped two of three followed with a run-scoring the second, struck out in the on the road against the Rays, groundout before Matt Wieters fourth, blooped a single to right in then lost in Baltimore on hit a two-run double. the seventh and was hit in the Tuesday before winning two The Red Sox made it 6-4 in the upper back by a 70 mph breaking straight. The Red Sox open a six-seventh. With runners on the ball from Germano in the ninth, game homestand Friday against corners and one out, Mike Lowell two pitches after Konerko hit his former teammate Manny hit a grounder to third. Bell’s 33rd homer. Ramirez and the Chicago White throw to second was behind the 
The White Sox were counting on Sox. bag, and although Brian Roberts Ramirez’s presence in their lineup After missing his last start with made the catch, his off-balance to make a difference, and it a sore back, Daisuke Matsuzaka relay bounced through the legs already has — without him even (9-4) gave up four runs in 5 2-3 of first baseman Wigginton. hitting the ball hard. innings. He has allowed four A poor fielding play was also a 


CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
ment and location.  something that I live by. And I  age of 5. [sings] Learn your rules,  
WANTED  1 block off Ivy Rd.  REWARD  PERSONAL  always have and I always will. Don't ever, for any reason, do anything to  you better learn your rules. If you don't you'll be eaten in your sleep!  
$400 per month.  anyone...for any reason ever no  Hah!  
(574)340-3895  $300 reward for lost JVC  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t  matter what. No matter where or  ———————————————  
Apartments for rent near airport  ———————————————  Camcorder.  go it alone. Notre Dame has many  who or who you were with or where  One day we're going to move to  
on Busline.  Suite in private home for football  resources in place to assist you. If  you are going or...where you've  Disney's Celebration village in  
weekends.  Last seen in front sear of U-Haul in  you or someone you love needs  been. Ever.  Florida and leave all of this behind.  
1 Bdr. $600 and 2 Bdr. $725. All util.  parking lot south of staging area of  confidential support or assistance,  ———————————————  ———————————————  
included.  1 block to ND main entrance on ND  North Quad- visitor lot 2.  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  HAPPY TWENTY-FIRST-ie, Eric!  It does not matter to me at all  
Ave.  or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more  ———————————————  whether this baby is biologically  
Call Mike (574)250-0191  Includes separate entrance, kitchen  If found, please call Bryson  information, visit ND’s website at  Rule 17: Don't turn your back on  mine. I am going to love it. It's like  
———————————————  and bath.  at (913)323-4500  http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu.  bears, men you have wronged or  when the dog nurses the tiger cub.  
Loft apartment for rent for 1 person.  for $300 reward- no questions  ———————————————  the dominant Turkey during mating  Have you seen that video? It is...it's  
Walking distance to ND.  Call (574)243-7777  asked.  Michael: David, here it is. My philis­ season. There are 40 rules all  so unnatural, but it...it...happens.  
Have to see to appreciate apart­ ———————————————  ———————————————  ophy is basically this. And this is  Shrute boys must learn before the  ———————————————  

PGA 

Woods hopes for qualifying bid at TPC Boston 
Associated Press 
NORTON, Mass. — A chart of FedEx Cup standings at the Deutsche Bank Championship showed Tiger Woods at the top, not unusual considering he has won the cup and its $10 million prize every year he has played. 
This chart was different. 
It listed the 10 players who are on the bubble at the TPC Boston, starting with Woods at No. 65 through Josh Teater at No. 75. Only the top 70 after this week will advance to the third round of the playoffs at the BMW Championship, where Woods is defending champion. 
Woods has failed to defend a title when the tournament has changed dates or when he was injured. Never has he not gone back to a tournament as the defending champion because he was not eligible. 
“It’s been a different year,” Woods said. 
It might be showing signs of turning around. One tourna­ment is not enough to declare Woods’ game is back, although his tie for 12th at The Barclays was his best finish since June. Plus, it got him into the second round of the FedEx Cup playoffs. 
And for the first time since the Masters, when he returned to golf after a five-month layoff, Woods went through an entire press conference without a mention of his broken marriage or how it got to that point. 
Even so, it remains odd to see Woods so far down any list. 
Matt Kuchar is No. 1 in the FedEx Cup standings on the strength of his victory last week to open the four-tournament playoffs. Steve Stricker is No. 2 and the defending champion at the TPC Boston. They are assured of reaching the final round. 
Woods is only assured of mak­ing the weekend because the Deutsche Bank Championship doesn’t start until Friday, the lone tournament on the PGA Tour schedule that ends on a Monday. 
“I’m starting to see some progress, which is nice,” Woods said. “Mentally, I’m hitting the ball much better, hence I have more confidence. I’m driving the ball much straighter, hitting the ball a little bit farther, especially with my irons. And those are all positive signs. It’s just a matter of making it a little bit more nat­ural. And that’s just reps.” 
Whether the tournament lasts any longer than Labor Day depends on the path of Hurricane Earl — the same name as Woods’ late father. The forecast was for good weather through noon on Friday before it starts getting nasty, with the worst of it late Friday afternoon and into the night. 
The tour moved tee times up as much as it could with a 99­man field — 40 minutes — with hopes of getting the round in. Officials will decide Friday morning whether to play lift, clean and place to protect against the late starters having to return Saturday morning to complete the first round in what could be a swamp. 
“It will be awesome to get this finished tomorrow,” said Mark Russell, a vice president of rules and competition for the tour. 
So much is at stake this week 
— 
not one cup, but two. 

For the 99 players — Kenny Perry pulled out on Wednesday 

— 
the goal is to finish in the top 70 in the standings to advance to Chicago and the BMW Championship. It’s far more tense for the 14 players that 


U.S. captain Corey Pavin has on a white sheet of paper he keeps in his pocket, all of them candi­dates to be among his four Ryder Cup picks. 
Woods figures to be a lock. Zach Johnson is getting plenty of support as another pick. For the rest of them, the Deutsche Bank Championship is one last chance to make an impression on the captain, and even that might not be enough. 
“There are no promises out there to anyone,” Pavin said. “I think everyone is mature enough to understand that.” 
The players on his list were all invited to his barbecue during the PGA Championship, mean­ing they will get a phone call next week to say whether they made the team. The only addi­tion was David Toms, a runner-up at Greensboro two weeks ago. 
Pavin invited the eight players who qualified for his team — Phil Mickelson had not yet arrived — to dinner Wednesday night. He is soliciting their opin­ions, and said all the players are coming up with the same list of seven or eight guys who would be good picks. 

“I think he’s got a pretty good idea who his picks are going to be,” Stricker said. “I mean, I think he still has some ques­tions. I think it depends a lot on what happens here this week, and he wants to have some players step up and show him something. I don’t think anybody is set in stone yet, but I think he’s really looking forward to see what’s going to happen here.” 


Stricker doesn’t have to worry about that, nor does Matt Kuchar, who made his first Ryder Cup team. They can think exclusively about the FedEx Cup for now, both in prime position to chase the $10 million prize. 
Woods, meanwhile, is trying to stay in the top 70 of the stand­ings after this week, although his primary goal hasn’t changed whether he’s No. 65 or No. 1 in the FedEx Cup. 
“I go out there and tee it up to win the tournament,” he said. 

NFL 
Roethlisberger seeks to reduce suspension 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — Ben Roethlisberger’s first big gain of the season may occur weeks before he returns to the field. 
His six-game suspension for violating the league’s personal conduct policy likely will be short­ened to four games by NFL com­missioner Roger Goodell after the two meet in New York on Friday. The meeting will take place about 12 hours after the quarterback played two series in the Steelers’ final preseason game, completing 4 of 6 passes for 39 yards against the Carolina Panthers in Pittsburgh. 
The league plans to review Roethlisberger’s behavior since he was accused of sexually assaulting a Georgia college stu­dent following a night of drinking in a Milledgeville, Ga., bar on March 5. Once it was determined six weeks later that Roethlisberger would not be charged by Georgia authorities, Goodell suspended Roethlisberger for the start of the season and ordered him to undergo an extensive evaluation. 
If Roethlisberger followed the league’s guidelines and stayed out of trouble, Goodell said he would consider cutting the sus­pension to four games. While Roethlisberger is likely to contend that his conduct has been exem­plary and the penalty should be cut even further, perhaps to three games, NFL officials have empha­sized that Goodell’s initial ruling specified a punishment of at least four games. 
Steelers president Art Rooney II is expected to accompany Roethlisberger to the meeting. Goodell’s ruling was made in con­sultation with Rooney and the Steelers, who were angered by the two-time Super Bowl quarter­back’s behavior and would have punished him if the league had-n’t. 
Goodell’s office has kept in fre­quent contact with the Steelers’ ownership and is expected to announce shortly after the meet­ing whether the suspension will be shortened. 
Roethlisberger was encouraged last month when Goodell said he was going “above and beyond” what the league asked him. The quarterback spent considerable time during training camp inter­acting with fans, working at char­itable and youth functions and appearing at children’s hospitals. 
“I’m very encouraged by what he’s doing,” Goodell said at Steelers training camp Aug. 5. “He hasn’t just done what he’s been told to do, I think he’s worked hard to really try to improve and focus on himself and understand what he’s been through and what he’s going to do differently going forward. I think that’s a very positive thing.” 



ATP 

Federer beats Beck to move on in U.S. Open 
Flushing Meadows, and the guy 6-4, 6-3 with the help of 15 one,” Federer said, perhaps 
Associated Press 

showed up for work wearing a aces, to ease into the third mindful that he was pushed to NEW YORK — Roger Federer warmup jacket. Then he put in round of the U.S. Open. five sets in the opening round at is one cool customer. his 1 hour, 41 minutes on court, “It’s about just saving your Wimbledon in June before even-The temperature climbed into dismissing 104th-ranked energy for the really big match tually losing in the quarterfinals the 90s yet again Thursday at Andreas Beck of Germany 6-3, coming up, maybe the next at a second consecutive major 

tournament. 

He dropped all of seven games in the first round of the U.S. Open, and the owner of a record 16 Grand Slam titles is feeling pretty good about things at the moment. 
“It’s the perfect start, sure. I played Monday; had two days off. I had another easy one physically today, and here I am in the third round feeling like I’m completely in the tourna­ment,” said Federer, a five-time 
U.S. Open champion and the only man left in the field who has won it. 
“I got a sense for how the court speed is again. I got the sense of the crowd and the wind now, as well. I played one night, one day,” he continued. “I have all the answers after two match­es.” 
In other words: Let everyone else sweat it out. 
Like Kei Nishikori, the 147th­ranked qualifier from Japan, who fought cramps in his rack­et-holding right hand and else­where while taking a minute shy of five hours to wrap up a 5-7, 7-6 (6), 3-6, 7-6 (3), 6-1 victory over 11th-seeded Marin Cilic. 
“It was very humid. It wasn’t easy to get the oxygen,” said Cilic, a U.S. Open quarterfinalist last year, and an Australian Open semifinalist in January. 
The 20-year-old Nishikori began feeling his muscles tight­en in the second set but didn’t really begin worrying until after trailing 2-1 in sets. 

NFL 

Despite Hardesty’s injury, Browns defeat Bears 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — Montario Hardesty can’t seem to out­run his knee problems. 
Cleveland’s highly touted rookie running back, whose career at Tennessee was slowed by knee injuries, hurt his left one in the second quarter of Thursday night’s 13-10 win over the Chicago Bears, a potentially major blow to the Browns’ running game. 
Fellow rookie Colt McCoy got his first pro start and went a perfect 13 of 13 for 131 yards in two-plus quar­ters. The former Texas star fumbled his first snap, but finally showed some potential in easily his best perform­ance of an otherwise rough preseason. 
Quarterback Todd Collins, recently signed by Chicago to back up Jay Cutler, complet­ed 10 of 15 for 139 yards and a 15-yard TD pass to tight end Greg Olsen for the Bears (0-4). 
Phil Dawson kicked a 36­yard field goal — set up when Browns defensive back DeAngelo Smith blocked a punt __ as time expired for the Browns (2-2). 
Hardesty made his pro debut after missing training camp with a bone bruise, an injury he sustained in his surgically repaired right knee in a 1-on-1 tackling drill dur­ing the week before Cleveland’s veterans report­ed. He recently returned to practice and the Browns were excited about him final­ly getting on the field. 
Hardesty showed his inside power before getting hurt, scoring on a 1-yard run in the first quarter. He finished with 25 yards on seven car­ries. 
On a routine running play 
off 
the left side, Hardesty picked up 2 yards but stayed 

on 
the ground after being tackled. He grimaced as trainers worked on his leg before he walked slowly to the sideline, where Cleveland ’s medical staff examined him. 


He was escorted to the locker room for further tests. Hardesty didn’t limp and was able to put full weight on his left leg as he left the field. 
The team provided no details on Hardesty’s injury. 
The Browns traded into the second round to draft Hardesty, who gained 1,345 yards last season in the rugged SEC. Cleveland’s front office is high on Hardesty, believing he can step in as a starter or serve as a change­of-pace for Jerome Harrison, who at just 5-foot-9 and 205 pounds has durability ques­tions. 
Not wanting to risk injuries with their season openers looming, both teams rested most of their starters. Cutler didn’t play and the Browns sat starting QB Jake Delhomme and backup Seneca Wallace. 
“Let’s hope nobody gets hurt,” Browns president Mike Holmgren, his right leg still in a cast from foot surgery, said before the game. He was driven around in his golf cart. 
Unfortunately, the Browns may have lost their top run­ning back. 
Hardesty’s injury could keep James Davis on the ros­ter. He gained 66 yards on 15 carries and caught five pass­es for 53 yards before leaving with a leg injury in the fourth period. 
McCoy ’s preseason has been shaky and it continued 
on his first play, a bad exchange on Cleveland’s first snap that the Bears recov­ered at Cleveland’s 19. Three plays later, Collins waited patiently for Olsen to get open behind Cleveland’s sec­ondary. 
McCoy regrouped, though, and efficiently moved Cleveland ’s second -and third -team offenses with short, precise throws. He twice completed 16-yarders but was sacked three times. 
Collins set up Cleveland’s TD with his own miscue. Backed up after a holding penalty, Collins was in the shotgun when he turned his head just as second-string center Josh Beekman hiked the ball. It bounced off Collins and Cleveland recov­ered at the 13. 

“It was pretty comfortable on most things,” Collins said. 
“The formations and play-calling, some of them I wasn’t as sharp as I needed to be, but overall I thought it was a pretty decent effort other than the mishap we had on the shotgun snap.” 


NCAA FOOTBALL 

No. 13 Miami cruises past Florida A&M 
QB Harris completes 12 of 15 passes for 210 yards and three touchdowns; ‘Canes outgain Rattlers 405-110 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — Jacory Harris and the Miami Hurricanes have been trying to not think too much about their long-awaited trip to Ohio State. 
It’s all they’ll think about for the next week — and Harris might be ready for the chal­lenge. 
Harris completed 12 of 15 passes for 210 yards and three touchdowns before sitting out the second half, and the 13th­ranked Hurricanes got their first shutout since 2006 by beating overmatched Florida A&M 45-0 to open the season Thursday night. 
“I went out there and took care of my business,” Harris said. “As a team, we came out there and did everything we had to do in the first half, and coach sat us out for the rest of the game. I guess it was well-deserved.” 
Leonard Hankerson caught the first two of Harris’ TD pass­es and finished with 115 receiv­ing yards, as the Hurricanes (1­
0) ran out to a 35-0 lead in the first 25 minutes and wound up outgaining Florida A&M 405­110. 
Looming for Miami: A trip next Saturday to visit the sec­ond-ranked Buckeyes, the first meeting between the schools since the 2003 Fiesta Bowl, where Ohio State denied the Hurricanes what would have been their second straight national championship in a game best remembered for a late pass interference call in overtime. 

Miami coach Randy Shannon said he wouldn’t start thinking about the Buckeyes until Friday. 

“One thing you never do, never take a victory and not enjoy it,” Shannon said. “I told the players and the coaches, ‘Enjoy tonight.’” 
Harris needed just 1:40 to get Miami on the scoreboard, find­ing a wide-open Hankerson for a 19-yard score, and the Rattlers (0-1) quickly found themselves in trouble. 
With Miami greats Michael Irvin, Edgerrin James and Ottis Anderson looking on, the Hurricanes spent much of the first half in a no-huddle offense. Of Harris’ 12 completions, 10 went for either first downs or touchdowns. 
“That’s a tremendous football team. That’s the bottom line,” Florida A&M coach Joe Taylor said. “To come down in this atmosphere and play against a team like that, that’s the way to get better. They are legitimately in the top 15, that’s for sure.” 
Damien Berry made it 21-0 with a 32-yard catch-and-run early in the second quarter. Ray-Ray Armstrong had a 22­yard interception return for another score, and Mike James’ 1-yard plunge pushed Miami’s lead to 35-0 with 5:22 left until halftime. 
Lamar Miller added a 5-yard touchdown run midway through the third quarter for the Hurricanes. 
Philip Sylvester rushed for a team-best 45 yards for the Rattlers, who have lost all eight of their matchups against Miami since 1980, now by a combined 400-49. 
“We don’t take any opponent lightly,” Hankerson said. 
Florida A&M had some chances, even early against Miami’s first-string defense. The Rattlers drove to the Miami 19 on their second possession, only to come up empty after Marcus Robinson and Olivier Vernon combined to sack Martin Ukpai for a 14-yard loss. Trevor Scott’s 50-yard field goal attempt was plenty long, but bounced off the right upright. 
FAMU went 50 yards on 11 plays in that drive — and 20 yards on its other 19 plays of the half. 
It was Miami’s first shutout since beating Florida International 35-0 on Oct. 14, 2006, the season before Shannon became the Hurricanes’ head coach. The 46-game span between shutouts was Miami’s longest since a 79-game stretch span­ning from 1968 to 1976. 
The Hurricanes never punted, either. 
“At least Ohio State doesn’t know what we do in the punt game,” Shannon said. 
A good night got even better for Miami late in the third quarter, when running back Graig Cooper — Miami’s No. 5 career rusher — got into the game. 
Cooper badly hurt his right knee in the Hurricanes’ loss to Wisconsin at the Champs Sports Bowl in late December, prompt­ing fears that he would miss the entire 2010 season. He finished with 11 yards on two carries, plus 13 yards on two recep­tions. 
“He’s a guy who worked hard during rehab, was there every day and fought through every­thing,” Harris said. “Just to see him get the ball and do what he do, it was amazing.” 
NFL 
Peerman, Cincinnati defeat resting Colts 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Cedric Peerman made the kind of play a fourth-string running back needs to get his coach’s atten­tion in the final preseason game. 
His 93-yard touchdown run in the third quarter helped the Cincinnati Bengals beat the Indianapolis Colts 30-28 on Thursday night. 
Peerman burst up the middle, then got loose down the right sideline on a second-and-10 just as the relatively quiet Indianapolis crowd started get­ting into the game. The score gave the Bengals a 13-6 lead. 
Peerman finished with 100 yards rushing and had a 50­yard kickoff return. His touch­down run made the kind of mark he was hoping to leave. 
“That shows the speed we know he’s got,” Bengals coach Marvin Lewis said. “That was the thing Cedric had coming out of Virginia a year ago. It kind of got him elevated in the draft. We know he can do it. He’s been an impressive guy for us.” 
Jordan Palmer completed 10 of 14 passes for 115 yards and two touchdowns for the Bengals (3-2). Starting quarterback Carson Palmer played for one possession, which netted a field goal. 
Lewis said his mission was accomplished. 
“To sum it up, we had an opportunity to look at the guys that we wanted to look at,” he said. “It was a close game throughout, and everytime the Colts were able to score, we went back and answered, which was a good thing. I think the only negative that I’d like to clean up was on special teams.” 
Colts quarterback Peyton Manning didn’t play, and most of Indy’s starters took the night off. Curtis Painter got the start and completed nine of 20 pass­es for 114 yards. Backup Tom Brandstater completed 10 of 18 passes for 177 yards and three touchdowns, all to rookie Brandon James. 
It’s the sixth winless presea­son in Colts history. They last failed to win a preseason game in 2005, then finished with the league’s best record in the reg­ular season. 
It was a marked change in fortunes for Indy’s offense. The Colts had scored on only three of 26 possessions led by backup quarterbacks heading into Thursday’s game. Colts coach Jim Caldwell has been commit­ted to Painter as Manning’s backup, but Brandstater has outperformed him statistically. 
“The big thing is being able to put it in the end zone, and I thought Brandstater did a good job of that,” Caldwell said. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Lee propels Georgia State to inaugural win 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — When Parris Lee and his Georgia State team­mates trotted onto the field and saw all those blue-clad fans — nearly 5,000 more than turned out for a major league baseball game a couple of miles away — they knew that all those dreary practices, all those lonely workouts over past two years had been worth it. 
“I was so surprised at how it looked. It was beautiful,” said Lee, a redshirt freshman run­ning back. “The football team has definitely brought a new spirit to Georgia State athlet­ics.” 
Lee felt even better when he scored the first touchdown in school history Thursday night, sparking the Panthers to a 41­7 rout of Shorter in an inaugu­ral game that also marked Bill Curry’s return to coaching after a 14-year absence. 
Everyone was amazed by the crowd of 30,237 at the Georgia Dome, nearly all of them decked out in Panther blue. The student turnout was so large they opened up sections of the club level in the mam­moth stadium, best known as home of the NFL’s Atlanta Falcons. 
This from a school that aver­aged barely over 1,000 a game for its men’s basketball team last season. 
“I hope they all come back,” Curry said, “and bring their friends.” 
Lee scored another touch­down in the third quarter, and Drew Little tossed a pair of TD passes to lead the Panthers, who are playing this season as an NCAA Football Championship Subdivision independent. They had no trouble against Shorter (0-2), a tiny NAIA school from north­west Georgia that lost its open­ing game to West Alabama 37­7. 
Still, Curry was pleased with the way his fledgling program, comprised mostly of true fresh­men and redshirt freshmen, performed in its debut. 
“I knew we had some pretty good talent,” he said. “Still, you don’t know how they’re going to perform when the lights come on.” 
The Panthers did just fine, at least against an overmatched opponent. 
Lee scored on a 4-yard run with 9:07 left in the first quar­ter for the historic first TD in school history. He wasn’t even sure he scored, thinking he might have been stopped about a foot short. But an official came running in with his arms in the air, ruling that Lee stuck the nose of the ball over the line. 
“Drew ran up to me and said, ‘You scored!’ I was like, ‘I scored?” Lee said, breaking into a big smile. “Then it hit me. All the linemen jumped on me. That was a great experi­ence that will live with me for the rest of my life.” 


NFL 
Vikings top Broncos in battle of backups 

Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — Denver rookie Tim Tebow outplayed Minnesota’s Tarvaris Jackson in the backup quarterback comparison, but the Vikings forced four first-half turnovers and beat the Broncos 31-24 on Thursday night in the presea­son finale for both teams. 
Tebow fumbled his first snap, Erin Henderson found the ball and scooted into the end zone from 35 yards out for the Vikings. The 2007 Heisman Trophy winner and first-round draft pick from Florida then threw a wobbler over the mid­dle that Tyrell Johnson easily intercepted and returned for 41 yards to set up a field goal. 
Marquez Branson and Bruce Hall lost fumbles on Denver’s next two drives, and Minnesota led 17-7 at halftime despite a meager 54 yards of offense and a weak, out-of-order perform­ance by Jackson and the sec­ond-stringers. 
Tebow, though, found a rhythm in the second quarter and — despite the turnovers and some carelessness with the ball as he scrambled around in the backfield — finished 12 for 16 for 167 yards and one touchdown. His favorite target was Matthew Willis, who caught five passes for 122 yards and a score. 
Minnesota native Eric Decker also had 10 catches for 114 yards for Denver. 
Tebow also had 21 yards rushing on four attempts, giv­ing the Broncos plenty to con­sider in their decision about whether to use him or Brady Quinn as the primary backup to Kyle Orton. Orton played two series and led Denver to a touchdown run by LenDale White, who later left the game because of an ankle injury. 
The drive included soft cover­age by Lito Sheppard on a first-down catch by Brandon Lloyd and a pass interference penalty on Asher Allen. Sheppard and Allen are competing for a start­ing cornerback spot, with incumbent Cedric Griffin and rookie Chris Cook recovering from injuries for the Vikings. 
All-Pro left tackle Ryan Clady saw his first action for the Broncos, a major step in his recovery from a knee injury he sustained in April, but he looked slow and was beaten badly a few times by Brian Robison on the pass rush. Starting right tackle Ryan Harris, who grew up in St. Paul, hurt his ankle and didn’t return. 
Correll Buckhalter also made his preseason debut for Denver in the backfield, catching a pair of passes for 26 yards to give the Broncos another sign of progressive health following a training camp that seemed to revolve around the training room. 
The Vikings, who have just one week to get ready for their Sept. 9 season opener at defending champion New Orleans, held 20 of their 22 starters out. Brett Favre watched in one of his favorite outfits — a hat, T-shirt, shorts and sneakers — and saw Jackson struggle again. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Ohio State handles Marshall 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — It was as if the Rose Bowl never ended for Terrelle Pryor. 
The Ohio State star tossed three touchdown passes, Brandon Saine ran for 103 yards and two scores and the second-ranked Buckeyes rolled over error-prone Marshall 45-7 on Thursday night in a tuneup for a big date with Miami. 
Pryor completed 17 of 25 passes for 247 yards and TDs covering 6 and 11 yards to DeVier Posey and 65 yards to Dane Sanzenbacher before 105,040 at Ohio Stadium. The last time Ohio State fans saw Pryor playing, he was having the game of his career and lead­ing the Buckeyes to a 26-17 win against Oregon at Pasadena, Calif., in January. 
Sure the competition wasn’t as good Thursday night, but the Heisman Trophy contender was Rose Bowl sharp against the Thundering Herd. 
The Buckeyes, who haven’t lost a home opener since 1978, next play on Sept. 11 against No. 13 Miami, which coasted past Florida A&M 45-0. 
It was a bleak debut for new Marshall coach Doc Holliday, who spent the last two seasons as an assistant at West Virginia. The Thundering Herd fumbled the opening kickoff and were down 14-0 before running their first play in Ohio State territory. 
Ohio State’s defense limited Marshall to 44 yards on the ground and 199 total. Brian Rolle picked off Brian Anderson’s pass and returned it 30 yards for a touchdown late in the second quarter. 
Anderson, who completed 17 of 28 passes for 135 yards, was harassed most of the night. He had an interception and the Herd also lost two fumbles. 


Meanwhile, the Buckeyes’ offense amassed 529 yards. 
The first play was a telling sign for the Thundering Herd. 
Andre Booker returned the opening kickoff and was hit hard by Dorian Bell and Dominic Clarke. The ball came loose and Nate Oliver recovered at the Marshall 22 for Ohio State. 
Four plays later, Posey was open by a mile in the left corner and Pryor hit him for a 4-yard score. 
After a punt, the Buckeyes were right back in business. 
Pryor hit Posey for a 5-yard gain before Saine raced 40 yards off left tackle, breaking two tackles on the way to the 4. He then took a pitch untouched around right end for another score. 
The Buckeyes had run seven plays, taking 2:13, and were up 14-0. 
The offense continued to click. 
Pryor hooked up with Sanzenbacher on a 65-yard bomb and Saine added a 45­yard scoring run on a quick burst up the middle. 
Late in the half, the Buckeyes took a 35-7 lead when Rolle — who scored his only other career touchdown in last year’s opening-game victory over Navy 
— grabbed Anderson’s throw and followed a line of blockers into the end zone. 


Waldrum 
continued from page 24 
got a couple of really key kids that we think can cause us some problems, and so we’re going to have to play very well to get the win.” 
Notre Dame is not nearly as familiar with Texas Tech, but Waldrum is familiar with the Red Raiders coach. Tom Stone was Waldrum’s star in the first coaching job the Irish coach ever held. In his fourth season at Texas Tech, Stone has begun to build a program that is beginning to win consistently. 
Waldrum said he and his staff have not had much of an opportunity to scout the Red Raiders, and will use the tournament-opening contest 
Kuschel 
continued from page 24 
she expects a better per ­formance on the offensive end as the younger players adjust to the faster style of play. 
“We ’re just looking to improve, ” Kuschel said. 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
As will likely become cus­tom this year, the Belles look to sophomore Julia Kenney, junior Joanne Almond and seniors Catie Salyer and Clare McVey, who took the top four spots in Wednesday’s meet. 
The nature of this week­end’s meet allows for a more relaxed atmosphere with multiple teams present, tak­ing off some of the pressure that comes with dual-team between Ole Miss and Texas Tech to familiarize them ­selves with Stone’s strategy and tactics. 
“I do know he’s got a cou­ple of kids that we tried to recruit, ” Waldrum said. “[But beyond that], we don’t have a lot of information on them.” 
Despite the uncertainty of the weekend’s second con­test, the Irish know what their focus will be. 
“It ’s ball possession, ” Waldrum said. “That’s been the impetus all week and that’s been the focus.” 
The Irish take on the Broncos at 7:30 p.m. Friday, and then face the Red Raiders at 1:30 p.m. Sunday in Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
“We ’re really focused on doing our personal best, and just coming up with the plays we know we can make, and putting the ball away when we can. We’re running a complex offense, and our players are really buying into that.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
races. It also gives the Belles an opportunity to get in a strong practice run with fewer nerves than a standard meet. 
“The girls love going down to Wabash for the Hokem Karem because it's fun, and while it's competitive, it's so different from a regular race that they are able to be a lit­tle less anxious about it,” Bauters said. 
The Belles travel to Wabash for the Hokum Karem meet Saturday at 11:15 a.m. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
UCLA 
continued from page 24 

just sharpening up our own performance and building up the little momentum we’ve gotten through the presea­son,” Clark said. 
Three of the five starting Irish defenders are new to the pitch, and Clark has been stressing the importance of communication and unity on the field as they establish a new dynamic on the field. 
“These players have evolved and have started playing together quite nicely,” he said. “The off-season trip was a good opportunity for getting them familiar with each other, and I think we’re getting there. This could be a very exciting group to work with over the years.“ 
Offensively, freshman Harry Shipp is quickly building a good reputation on the field. Shipp has already raked in two assists and a goal in the preseason. 
“Shipp fits in well, he’s very technical,” Clark said. “He handles the ball very well, he’s got tremendous control in tight spaces and he makes good decisions.” 
The Irish are also making adjustments to deal with the setback of team captain Phil Tuttle injury while he recuper­ates. 
“[Tuttle] will still be our cap­tain on the sidelines, but I’m comfortable with the group of seniors we have leading on the field,” Clark said. 
The UCLA game marks the first of 17 regular season games. Notre Dame will con­tinue its transition into the regular season Sunday when it faces California Sunday at Alumni Stadium for the first home game of the year. 
“Every game in our schedule is really important, and we’re hoping we can get off to a good start,” Clark said. “When it comes to tournament time, you really want some good wins against good teams, and this will give us that opportu­nity.” 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

Joyce, squad eager to recover 
By ROBERT GRAHAM 
Sports Writer 

Belles coach Michael Joyce knows there is still much to be desired from his squad 
after  a  4 -0 loss  to  Aurora  
We d n e s d  a y i n t  h e  s e a s o n  
opener.  

“We looked nervous, we had a lot of bad touches and were playing a little rushed,” Joyce said. “I know we’re capable of doing better.” 
Joyce is confident that his team will be prepared for this weekend’s tournament at the University of Wisconsin, Oshkosh. The Belles (0-1) kick off against Carthage (0-0-1) Saturday before playing the host Titans (3-1) Sunday. 
Joyce blamed new forma­tions and unsettled nerves for Wednesday’s outcome. However, he remains opti­mistic that that the team will start to perform better as the season progresses and the freshmen become more accustomed to the collegiate level. 
“It’s part of early non-con­ference games,” Joyce said. “It’s also part of starting five players who are new to the team.” 
Hopeful that many of those freshmen will be able to con­tribute this weekend, Joyce cited strong play from mid­fielder Ellie Jacques and defender Anna Stollhans. 
“Anna did a tremendous job of winning the ball, and Ellie was all over the field — she’s extremely athletic and is a tireless worker”. 
As much as Joyce is look­ing for the team to improve, he knows the players are looking to do so even more. 
“We have a number of players who weren’t satis­fied with their performances and will be hungry to make an impact this weekend,” he said. 
Contact Robert Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Friday, September 3, 2010 page 24 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Measuring stick 
Irish look to make early statement against west coast powerhouse Santa Clara 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
An old soccer adage holds that the team that has the possession advantage will win the game, a strategy Spain used to great effect this summer in its World Cup triumph. Irish coach Randy Waldrum hopes to emulate the newly minted world champions this weekend in both style and results as Notre Dame hosts the Inn at Saint Mary’s Classic. 
The No. 3/4 Irish (2-0) will face No. 8/9 Santa Clara (2­0-1) on Friday night before taking on Texas Tech (5-0) 
on Sunday afternoon in a pair of clashes that Waldrum feels has significance beyond the early days of September. 
“You always want to win every game if you can,” he said. “More importantly, we feel that when you play top teams early, it sets up for being able to host playoff wins late in the year — if you can get enough of these big wins. We kind of like having teams coming in here in November and having to play us at our place.” 
The three central midfield­ers in Waldrum’s 4-3-3 sys­tem will be especially impor­tant in ball possession, which has been the focus of practice all week. 
“We’ve not been very good the first couple games of keeping the ball enough,” Waldrum said. “It’s going to be our focus to keep the ball so that we can make the opponents chase the game a little bit and chase us.” 
Friday night’s game against Santa Clara will provide one 
of the season ’s toughest challenges all year, as this year’s edition of the Broncos is again one of the top squads in the country. The Santa Clara matchup has become a yearly fixture on the Irish schedule that has consistently proven to be an early test for Notre Dame, and Waldrum sees no differ­ence in this year’s matchup. 
“They’ve always been good, and they’ve got a good team again,” he said. “[They’ve] 
see WALDRUM/page 22 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Team seeks first win at Elmhurst tournament 
SMC to face Chicago, Wheaton, Western New England, tournament host Elmhurst 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Following a three -game sweep at the hands of Bethel 
on Wednesday, the Belles look to get into the win col­umn for the first time this season as they compete in the Elmhurst Invitational. Saint Mary’s will face the University of Chicago and Wheaton on Friday, before taking on Western New England and Elmhurst Saturday in the final tune­up before the conference season. 
“We ’ve got some tough competition, more of the same, ” Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. “We’re going to have some strong block­ers up at the net. The University of Chicago had a great record last year, and they have a lot of returners. Wheaton College is another strong powerhouse.” 
Wheaton, Western New England and Elmhurst will taste their first action of the season at the Invitational, while Chicago is already off to a 2-0 start after disman­tling Lake Forest 3-1 and Dominican 3-0 in its first tournament of the year. 
Kuschel is confident Saint Mary’s (0-1) will rise to the challenge as it faces stiff competition early in the sea­son. She credits the senior class for bringing drive and professionalism to the court every day, qualities that have rubbed off on the underclassmen. 
“They [seniors] have just been doing an amazing job from day one. Coming in with five freshmen this year, they’ve just done a great job creating that family -type atmosphere here at Saint Mary’s. They’ve really taken the underclassmen under their wing, and our junior leaders are doing the same thing. They’re all just get­ting along so well.” 
Despite the loss, several players emerged as contrib­utors on the Belles’ squad. Sophomore transfer Allison Zandarski racked up six kills to lead the team, while junior setter Danie Brink chipped in with 14 assists and three digs. 
While pleased with the Belles’ performance on the defensive side, Kuschel said 
see KUSCHEL/page 22 


PAT COVENEY/The Observer Junior forward Melissa Henderson controls the ball during Notre Dame’s 1-0 victory over Oregon State on Nov. 20, 2009. 
MEN’S SOCCER 

ND to tackle UCLA, Cal 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer 
Junior defender Aaron Maund pushes the ball forward during Notre Dame’s 3-0 loss to 
Indiana on Oct. 14, 2009. 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 

No. 18 Notre Dame will start its regular season Friday facing one of the toughest teams on their 2010 schedule and a California powerhouse — No. 5 UCLA. 
“They’re a very competitive soccer program,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “They‘re always one of the top teams on the west coast, always have the top players, and have a young team.” 
The Irish will travel to Bloomington, Ind., for the 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles take on field at Wabash 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 

The Belles got their first home meet out of the way with great success, taking the top eight places against Goshen Wednesday evening. This weekend, they approach the next step — their first away match and open meet of the season. 
The biggest goal this week­end at the Hokum Karem meet is to tighten up the pack, especially among the top eight runners, as consis­tency was lacking in the last meet. 
“I think it was a great first showing for the team, even if the times aren 't exactly where they want them quite yet,” Belles coach Jackie Bauters said. 
see BELLES/page 22 
Adidas/IU Credit Union Classic at Indiana University’s Armstrong Stadium where they will meet up with the Bruins for the fifth time in program history. The Irish beat the Bruins once before, a 2-1 overtime victory in their most recent match in 2007. 
Though Clark does not have much experience coach­ing against the Bruins, he is certainly quite familiar with their style of play, as his for­mer coaching job at Pac-10 rival Stanford led to many 
meet ­ings between Clark and UCLA. 
“I know it’ll be a good time,” Clark said. “During my five years at Stanford, we played them on a yearly basis, and they always pro­duce very good teams.” 
Notre Dame’s 3-0 record in the exhibition season gives them a good boost of confi­dence heading into a demanding regular season. 
“We haven’t spent much time dwelling on UCLA, but 
see UCLA/page 22 

Photo Illustration by Pat Coveney and Blair Chemidlin 
COMMENTARY 
A season-opener is only one game 
Almost all coaches will say that, over the course of an entire season, it’s important to keep an even keel. They’ll say that that a team can’t let one win or one loss get them too high or too low. 
Purdue coach Danny Hope is not one of those coaches. 
“There’s a million things to gain from a win,” Hope said in a press con ­ference ear­lier this week. “We can ’t lose Saturday, we can’t.” 
If Notre Dame fans are smart this Saturday, they’ll look at Hope’s view and take the exact opposite. That’s not to say I’m predict­ing a loss — if you skip ahead a few pages you’ll see that I’m not — just simply that the Brian Kelly era at Notre Dame will not be defined by this one game. 
Of course some will make grand sweeping remarks, talking about yet another “Return to Glory” if the Irish win big or a fifth straight failed coaching hire if they lose. Yes, George O’ Leary counts. 
Neither would be correct, though, and Irish fans only need to look back five years for evidence, when then ­coach Charlie Weis was coaching circles around Pittsburgh’s Dave Wannstedt in both of their debuts. Now, Wannstedt has his team ranked in the top 15 while Weis is out of the college coaching game. 
It’s important to remember that, especially when a coach is bringing in changes as large as Kelly’s, it ’ll take some time to adjust. Dayne Crist can run option reads in practice all he wants, but there’s nothing like running your offense against a defense that’s not made up of teammates. 
On the other end of the spectrum, a big Irish win won’t mean it’s time to start printing the National Championship t-shirts. While Purdue is certainly a solid football team, they’re hardly elite. A win against Purdue won’t necessarily mean that Notre Dame is ready to com­pete against the elite BCS teams of the college football world. 

Even though it may only end up being a blip on Brian Kelly’s career radar, there are certainly things to look for on Saturday that could portend how the rest of the 2010 season will play out. 
The biggest improvement to look for Saturday won’t be in X’s and O’s, but in the team’s attitude from the minute it runs out of the tunnel until the final whistle blows. 
On media day a few weeks ago, Kelly said that his biggest goal of the season was to make sure the team was better in November than it was in September. Against Purdue, look for the Irish to be better than — or at least as good as — they are in the fourth quarter as they are in the first. 
“At the end of the day, if you do that, if you play hard and give everything you have for four quarters, my experi­ence has shown me that that ’s going to be pretty good,” Kelly said in a press conference Tuesday. 
Many articles and projec­tions have pointed to Lou Holtz’s first year with the Irish as an example of how a team can show improvements in areas without necessarily winning more games. The Irish went 5-6 in 1986, the same record that had gotten Gerry Faust fired the previ­ous year, but only lost one 
g a m e  b y  m o r e  t h a n  f i v e  
points.  
O b v i o u s l y,  a  s u b  - . 5 0 0  

record this season would be classified as an unmitigated failure, but Irish fans would certainly have to be pleased if Kelly’s career trajectory mirrored that of Holtz’s dur­ing his time in South Bend. 
Kelly has been the head coach at Notre Dame for just under eight months now, but what happens during four hours on Saturday afternoon will have more impact than anything he’s done since he took the job. Saturday will matter more than any press conference or any practice clip ever could. 
Even still, there will be plenty more games to come for Kelly and the Irish. As important as Saturday will be, it’ll take a lot longer than a few hours to write the story of Brian Kelly at Notre Dame. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Two commits visit ND for opener 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 

Since landing four recruits in the last weekend of July, Notre Dame’s recruiting efforts haven’t exactly stalled, but they certainly are not the top item on Irish coach Brian Kelly’s pri­ority list. 
With only two committed recruits visiting campus this weekend, that is unlikely to change, Irish recruiting expert Mike Frank said. Frank expects that trend to continue through­out the season. 
“I think the staff wants to try and get more of the official vis­its not during the season,” said Frank, who runs the online ESPN affiliate Irish Sports Daily. “They would like to get them up for the games of course, so they can see that game experience. But part of the issue is you just don’t get a lot of time to spend with the players when you have a football game. You don’t get the time to try to get to know the families or really develop a relationship.” 
Defensive lineman Tony Springmann and kicker Kyle Brindza will watch the season-opener from inside Notre Dame Stadium this weekend. Springmann, measuring in at 6­foot-6 and 265 pounds, will bring a blue-collar attitude to the Irish. 
“Springmann is one of your lunch-pail guys,” Frank said. “You build championship teams around lunch-pail guys. You need your great athletes who can do a lot of things, but lunch-pail guys do the dirty work and make it difficult for an offense.” 
The Fort Wayne, Ind., native has committed to the Irish and will join a 2011 class only including two other defensive lineman currently. 
“He is a guy who will be very stout against the run,” Frank said. “He plays a very physical and aggressive brand of foot­ball.” 
Brindza will bring a cannon leg to Notre Dame, possibly set­tling the annual battle for the starting kicker position early. 
“He’s one of the best kickers around,” Frank said. “He has a monster leg and can consistent­ly kick 50-yard field goals, and he’s accurate.” 
Brindza will need to over­come one challenge that faces all high school kickers. 
“There is obviously a change when you move from kicking off a tee to not kicking off a tee, and some guys don’t quite adjust to that,” Frank said. “I’d be very surprised if he doesn’t end up as one of the best kick­ers in the country.” 
The slow week on the recruit­ing trail does not foreshadow slow recruiting overall for Notre Dame, which has already secured four commitments from the ESPN 150. 
For more on Irish recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irish­sportsdaily.com. E-mail Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at 
dfarmer1@nd.edu 



Tattoo’d Te’o 
Sophomore linebacker Manti Te’o displays his Samoan culture and values, on and off the field 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Editor  group of people,” said Te’o, a today’s society. That is some-nominee for the 2010 Rotary thing that I’m proud of, that I Lombardi Trophy. “For some-c om e fr o m a cultur e t ha t  
body to get this, and not be stresses loyalty, strength and  
When Manti Te’o returned  Samoan, makes me wonder, honor.”  
f r om C hri stm as B r e ak i n  ‘Why are you getting it?’”  
January, he had two surprises  Samoan values at Notre Dame  
in store for his Irish team- Values shine without a mission Te’o has found those values  
mates.  The first of those two sur­among his Irish teammates  
One — he had decided not to  prises — not taking a two-year and coaches as well.  
take a two-year service mis- service mission — could carry From his defensive coordi­ 
sion during his college career,  e ff ects for y ears to co me , nator, Bob Diaco, Te’o hears  
as is customary in the Church  especially the next three years criticism and advice that he  
of Latter Day Saints, of which  for Irish fans. When he first always responds positively to.  
Te’o is a member.  arrived at Notre Dame, Te’o “He is interested in being  
Two — he was sporting a  was considering taking his the very best that he can be,”  
Samoan tattoo, courtesy of his  mission after his freshman Diaco said. “He has a nice,  
native Hawaii, covered his left  season, but his time at Notre thick skin. He isn’t overly-sen­ 
bicep.  Dame, and time talking with sitive to constructive criticism,  
Irish fans and players alike  his f am i ly, l ed to t h e so he comes out diligently to  
were overjoyed by the first  Christmas Break decision. t r y t o w o rk o n t he t h i n gs  
decision, but it is the tattoo —  “Wh e n I wen t hom e ov e r you’re coaching from the day  
a tradition in Samoan culture  Christmas I sat down with my before. That is how a player  
— that displays the true char- family. I prayed a lot about it,” moves forward.”  
acter of Te’o.  Te’o said. “I just felt that it Te’o handles that criticism  
was the right thing to do to so well because he has always  
The cultural value of a tattoo  come back and focus on foot-heard it, especially back at  
“It is very special to me,  ball, try my best to help my home, he said.  
because it represents every- team win.” “When it comes to the thick  
thing that I stand for: my cul- Ev en tho ugh he ha s skin, it is from knowing who I  
ture, my home and my family,”  rem ai ne d in no r t hw es t am, knowing the kind of guy  
the junior linebacker said.  Indiana, Te’o that my parents  
“Everything that is important  is constantly r aise d m e to  
to me I have here on my arm.” Te’o speaks of his culture and family as often as he does football. Not only does the tat- reminded of be.” “Sure, it’s a very nice his fa mil y, Am on g h is tattoo, but it representscult ur e a nd t e a m m a t e s , faith, simply more than just body art. Te’o has found  
too represent the Samoan cul­ture, but he also sought per­m i s s i o n f r om hi s p ar en t s before putting the ink to skin.  by not seeing s ui t abl e addi -It represents a wholethem around tions to his five culture, a whole grouphim. s ibli ngs a t “It’s n ot of people.” home.  
“Whenever you put some- that hard to “ I ha ve  
thing on yourself that is per­manent, you want to ask your parents, especially if your par- r e m e m b e r f ri e n d s h er e Manti Te’o who you are who I am very sophomore linebacker and what you c los e wi t h .  
ents are Samoan,” he said.  sta nd f o r [ J un ior li ne -SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer  
“My dad is the Samoan patri­ w he n y o u backer] Darius Sophomore linebacker Manti Te’o tackles freshman receiver TJ  
arch of our family, and he has  l o ok a rou n d and there is Fleming is one of my very best Jones during the Blue-Gold Game in April.  
one … They were very sup- no bo d y li ke y ou,” he s ai d . friends. He is one of those  
portive of it.”  “There was no other Samoan.” guys that I can go to, no mat- together, but Te’o knows the “that spot.”  
Once his teammates saw the  Now, with freshmen Justin ter what,” Te’o said, adding  meetings and meals will feel “I’m just going to be me. I’m  
“tatau” — Samoan for tattoo  Utupo and Kona S chwen ke s opho more ru n ni ng ba c k  as i f every o ne ha s a lw a y s go in g t o ma ke su r e a l l m y  
— they quickly deemed it the  joining him on the football Cierre Wood to that list as  known each other. te am m ate s a re r ea d y, are  
“tightest” tattoo on the team,  field, Te’o sees two Samoans well. “I know no matter what  “My parents know that my aligned where they need to  
a nd s om e e ve n c o nside re d  that remind him of the values happens, they’ll always have  f ri e n d s ar e be,” Te’o said.  
getting a similar one. But to  he stands by. my back, and I’ll always have  mirror images “That’s all it’s  
Te’o, while he does consider  “Samoans are very prideful their backs.”  of me, so when about. It’s on  
some of his teammates to be as close as brothers, the tattoo is not for just anyone. “Sure, it’s a very nice tattoo,  people. We pride ourselves in Wi t h Te’o’s pa r e n t s a nd our culture and our strength fou r-y e ar-ol d b rother of values that we live by, and Manasseh coming into town how we respect others,” he for both the Pur d u e a nd  they see them, “I am just excited more me to ma ke th ey ar en ’t s ure that than anything, to getshocked. They offense doesn’t are very happy out there and start a s c ore. A t t he  
but it represents more than  said. “Discipline. Honor. All Michigan games, his Notre  arou nd my new season. Just win.” end of the day,  
just some body art. It repre­ t hos e k ind of v al ues t ha t Da m e f r i en d s a n d Sa m o an  friends,” Te’o if we play our  
sents a whole culture, a whole  a r e n ’t re all y stress ed in parents will spend much time  s ai d . “I com -hearts out and Manti Te’o pletely under-ex ecu t e o n stand that my sophomore linebacker ev e r y pla y,  
friends have a we’ ll b e a b le  
direct im pa c t to look at the  
on me, and I’ll s c o r e b o a r d  
never choose a friend, call and be happy.”  
him my brother, if he is some­ 
body that could be detrimental ‘Just win’  
to me in any way.” W hen Te’ o expl ains t h e  
m eaning of hi s t att oo, t h e  
Family on the field meaning of his family and the  
H av ing t h ose f r iends , o r role of his friends around him,  
“brothers,” on the field should it is easy to envision him play- 
h elp Te’ o pl ay e v e n be t t er ing his heart out.  
than he did in his freshman Bu t in all of r ea lity, t h at  
season, when he finished with won’t be enough for him. Only  
63 tackles. one result this year will satisfy  
“When you are around peo­Te’o: “I am just excited more  
ple you don’t really know and than anything, to get out there  
y o u don’t r ea ll y trust, y ou and start a new season. Just  
tend to not come out of your win.”  
shell,” Te’o said. “But when Once this season plays out,  
you trust somebody, you can win or lose, Te’o has another  
be you. You can do things, you mission to continue, on his left  
can act the way you want to bi c e p . T h i s tim e his t e am  
act and you know they won’t won’t be as surprised.  
be offended.” “The tattoo’s going to extend  
That might not seem real up here [onto the lower por­ 
applicable to play on the field, ti o n o f hi s n e c k] a nd th en  
but when he takes his position down here [onto his upper  
S a t u rd a y, he wi ll kno w chest],” Te’o said. “I’ll wait  
Fleming is less than 10 yards until after the season because  
to his side, along with nine I have to go home to get it, but  
other of his closest friends it’ll be as soon as possible.”  
DAN JACOBS/The Observer  nearby. Of those 11 players on  
Senior running back Armando A llen, in blue, and sophomore linebacker Manti Te’o congratulate  the field, Te’o will be leading Contact Douglas Farmer at  
each other after a collision betw een the two No. 5s during fall practice.  them, in what Diaco called dfarmer1@nd.edu  

Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 

HEAD T
Record: 0-0 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
1st season at 

Irish Offense vs. Boilermakers Defense 
Notre Dame 



career record: 
171-57-2 
record at ND: 
0-0 
against Purdue: 
0-0 





Douglas 
Farmer 
Sports Editor 
Irish fans have been waiting for this game for eight months now. Nonetheless, nobody really knows what to expect this weekend, with a new coach, new quarterback and new defensive scheme leading the way for Notre Dame. 
Fortunately, Purdue has more questions to answer than the Irish do, and a susceptible Boilermakers defense will need to get used to watching Michael Floyd running away from them, a la last year’s sea­son opener against Nevada. Look for two Crist-to-Floyd connections in a 
fan-friendly showcase. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, Purdue 17 


Matt Gamber 
Editor-in-Chief 
I may be in the minority, but person­ally, I’m just as excited to see the new Irish 3-4 defense as I am to watch Dayne Crist run Brian Kelly’s spread offense. With the talent Notre Dame boasts in its front-seven, I have high hopes that Robert Marve will be hassled all afternoon. He’s talented and will make a few plays, but I think a few of his throws will find the hands of Irish defensive backs, too. 
For Notre Dame’s offense, I’d most like to see a confident, disciplined unit 
— that means no early timeouts, and no 
penalties. There are enough playmakers there to put up the points necessary to beat the Boilers. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, Purdue 13 

Eric Prister 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish are running a brand new system with a brand new quarterback. It seems likely that the offense won’t be entirely prepared to run all that a Brian Kelly offense has to offer. For the first time in years, though, Notre Dame’s defense should be its strength, at least until Crist and Co. start to click. Ten out of the 11 defen­sive starters saw significant playing time last season, and nothing can replace experience on defense. Purdue will stuggle to move the ball, and I have a hard team seeing a Brian Kelly 
offense scoring less than three times. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24, Purdue 10 


Purdue 
Boilermakers

O HEAD 
Record: 0-0 AP: NR Coaches: NR 

2nd season at Purdue 

Boilermakers Offense vs. Irish Defense 

career record: 
40-29 
record at Purdue: 
5-7 
Danny Hope against ND: head coach 0-1 







EO
V
I
N
F
O
U
D
R
P
G
N
I
H
C
AS



A
H
G
It’s almost a shame that the Irish 

Notre Dame defensive coordinator are facing Purdue to open the sea-
Bob Diaco said his defense is excited son. A finely-tuned Brian Kelly 
to face what he sees as a challenging offense could probably put up well 
Boilermakers offense. But Notre over 40 points against a Boilermaker 
Dame’s offense, with juniors Dayne defense that ranked 89th in the 
Crist, Michael Floyd and Kyle country in scoring defense last year. 
Rudolph leading the way, will pres-On the other hand, it’s probably a 
ent an even bigger challenge to good thing that Purdue is the first 
Purdue. 

game on the slate, because the Irish Coupled with the atmosphere of the 
offense that takes the field Saturday new coaching era’s first game, Notre 
will definitely not be fine-tuned. Even Dame will prove hard to beat, 
so, Notre Dame holds a undoubted although Purdue, led by junior quar­
talent advantage, and the players will terback Robert Marve, will give the 
be eager to show off the change that Irish a run for their money for three 
Kelly has brought to Notre Dame. quarters. 

FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, Purdue 20 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 35, Purdue 24 






Sam Werner 
Sports Writer 




What are you most excited for off the field this year? 
I really want to do well in school this semester. I’ve got a tough schedule so I want to do well there. 
What is your toughest class this semester? 
My Foresight class. It’s a lot of reading, close to 100 pages. 
Are you already behind on the reading? 
Actually, I’m 100 pages ahead in that class ... Just kidding [laughing]. 
What is your most enjoyable class this semester? 
Probably my Introduction to Psychology class. It’s not in my major so it’s pretty relaxing. 
What’s your favorite place to eat on campus? 
South, just because of the variety of food that they have. 
Transfer Marve leads youthful Boilermakers 
By MATT GAMBER  contain rushers and people giving chase, and he has the  
Sports Writer  presence to have the ball in  
his hand and is prepared to  
Saturday’s opener may be  throw it down the field while  
Robe r t M arv e’s deb ut in a  on the run.”  
P u r d ue  un if o r m,  but  t h at  Purdue will usher in  new  
won’t stop him from being the  starters at several other posi­ 
k ey  to  the  tions, namely on  
Boilermakers’  t he  of fe nsi ve  
su c cess,  at  line and in the  
le ast  o n  the  “[Purdue quarterback  s e c o n d a r y .  
offensive side of the ball. “It’s impor- Robert Marve] is elusive in the pocket  Though Marve’s mobi li t y c o u ld all o w h im t o  
ta n t t hat we  and can get to the  make plays on  
have a pack-a g e put  perimeter.”  hi s ow n a n d provide s o me  
toget he r  f o r  re lie f  for  an  
Robe r t  th at  Bob Diaco  untested offen­ 
he’s comfort- Irish defensive coordinator  sive line, the big  
a b le  wi t h ,”  men  up  fr o nt  
Boilermakers  w il l  be  cal le d  
coach Danny  upon  to  gi ve  
Hope said. “We’ll go  as  our  their quarterback  some  time  
quarterback goes  -that hap- in the pocket.  
pens a lot. The opponent is in  “I think we’ve made a lot of  
the same boat.”  progress,” he said. “It’s a posi- 
Marve, who sat out last sea­ tion where continuity reaps  
son due to NCAA regulations  benefits, and we’re just now  
after transferring from Miami,  starting to develop some conti­ 
w as  a  h igh ly  tou ted  hi g h  nuity  on  the offensive line.  
school recruit and is regarded  We’re about 6-foot-5 and some  
as a dangerous dual-threat  change, about 320 [pounds],  AP  
quarterback. Though he has- and we have some redeeming Boil ermakers q uarte rba ck Robert Marve — shown in 2008 at Miami, before transferring to Purdue  
n’t played since going 6-5 as  qualities.” — w ill pose a d ual-t hre at to Notre Dame’s defense Saturday.  
the Hur r ica n e s ’ sta r ter i n  Much has been made of the  
2008, the Irish staff knows  Boilermakers’ inexperience in  g et  s nappe d  of f  a  c o up le  sense of urgency for our foot- ond-year coach confidence in  
what Marve  can  bring to the  the defensive backfield -espe­ times, someone’s going to get  ball team to prepare all sum- this year’s team.  
table. Irish coach Brian Kelly  cially heading into a matchup  o p en  -tha t ’s t h e wa y i t is  mer long because of the quali­ “We have the potential to do  
said he tried to recruit him to  with what should be  a potent  when someone throws the ball  ty of the opponent, the magni­ very well,” Hope said. “It’s  a  
Cin c inn ati ,  an d  de fensi ve  Irish passing attack -but Hope  a lot.”  tude of this game,” Hope said.  big game  on  a  big stage. We  
coordinator Bob Diaco called  said his young group has been  While any team, Notre Dame  “In the long run, I think it’s a  have a  lot of young guys that  
Marve “a fast player, a rugged  a pleasant surprise in camp.  and  P urdue  i ncl u d ed,  h as  real blessing in disguise for  haven’t played in games like  
quarterback.”  “They’re much further along  unanswered questions head- this football team.”  this  or  haven’t played at all.  
“When you watch him  run  than I could  ever  have imag­ ing into an opener, Hope said  Though Purdue finished last  So I’m excited to see how our  
with the football, he runs with  ined,” Hope said. “They’re  preparing for the challenge of  season with a  5-7 record, the  team performs, really excit­ 
the football with authority,”  ve ry  com peti tive.  T he y’ r e  a  showdown in Notre Dame  Boilermakers did win four of  ed.”  
Diaco said. “He is elusive in  aggres sive. They  run  well.  Stadium has brought out the  their last six and nearly pulled  
the pocket and can get to the  They have a knack for sticking  best in his team.  off a few upsets in Hope’s first  Contact Matt Gamber at  
perimeter. He has the speed to  close to the receiver. They’ll  “I think there’s been a great  season, which gives the sec­ mgamber@nd.edu  

Multiple position battles come down to last day 
the starting jobs. 
By LAURA MYERS 
“We notice simple acts that 
Sports Writer 
they do well,” offensive coordi­nator Charley Molnar said. 
The depth chart released Of course, bad performances Monday shows which players were also noted. will be on the field for “I’m not going to let anything Saturday’s first snap, but many slide in practice and hope that it positions are still up for grabs, doesn’t happen in the game,” and could remain battles for the Kelly said. rest of the season. Cave, too, pointed to the 
Starters and backups on both importance of practice. sides of the ball were set in “There’s always someone place on the two-deep chart, there pushing you,” he said. but nothing was written in “When it comes to game time, stone. the rotation is how it is, whatev­
“If you’re afraid of competi-er the coaches want, but the tion, maybe you shouldn’t come preparation in practice is the to Notre Dame,” Irish coach key point.” Brian Kelly said in a press con-Kelly preaches a philosophy of ference Tuesday. “next man in,” to ensure that 
Junior Braxston Cave, who any players on the field are at 
will  start  full strength.  
Saturday at cen- This  lessens  
ter, said players  the  pressure  
are still compet­ing on a daily basis. “It doesn’t light­ “Every day you’ve got a guy on your back, pushing you. And the  to be a No. 1 or No. 2, coaches said, because many  
en up at Cave “Around  all,” said. here  moment you let up is when he slides in.”  players play. “You  will can  
there’s no relax- call  us  
ing. And I think  Braxston Cave  starters,  but  
that’s why this team has come so  junior center  we the  don’t use term  
far.  Every  day  starters,” jun­ 
you’ve got a guy  ior  safety  

on your back, pushing you. And Jamoris Slaughter said. “Just the moment you let up is when next man in if anybody ever he slides in. So we’ve got to goes down. But if you want to come out here and bust it every call us starters, you can.” single day.” Slaughter and senior Harrison 
Cave was neck-and-neck with Smith will be the starting senior Dan Wenger for the safeties Saturday, with junior starting center job leading up to Dan McCarthy and sophomore the release of the chart. Zeke Motta as backups. All four 
Coaches said performance in were vying for what anyone but practice, from big plays to fun-Slaughter would call the start­damentals, was key to who got ing spots, but the more experi­enced backs ended up in front. 
“I wouldn’t necessarily say it was a battle, it was just coming out every week,” Slaughter said. “There were no set posi­tions when we first got here, but they knew who knew most and who was most experienced, which was me and Harrison, and they just went off that and went off our production of Spring all the way through now.” 
Another defensive battle is in place at the outside linebacker position, where senior Kerry Neal overtook classmate Brian Smith, who has started there for the last two years. But the “next man in” strategy is in place there, as well, Kelly said. 
“We’ve got two seniors in Neal and Smith,” Kelly said. “They’re both going to play.” 
On offense the biggest ques­tion was where the many receivers would land — but receivers coach Tony Alford said the decisions were not hard. 
“I don’t think they’re difficult decisions,” Alford said. “You put the guys on the field who can make plays. So I don’t look at it as a difficult situation. What you see in practice is hopefully what you’re going to get in the game. If you’re not doing it in practice you’re not going to do it in the game.” 
Junior Michael Floyd and freshman TJ Jones will start on the outsides, and sophomore Theo Riddick will be in the slot position. Jones was selected above senior Duval Kamara, but said his spot is anything but secure. 
“Any day it could change,” Jones said. “So I’ve got to give my all every day. It’s a competi­tion day in and day out.” 

Jones, who enrolled in the Spring semester, rose to prac­tice with the first team in Spring practice, but was in a real com­petition with Kamara in the fall. 
“[Starting] was definitely a goal I was working towards,” Jones said. “That was the first goal and now that I’ve got that it’s to keep that job this year.” 
Part of the reason that Jones won the spot, Kelly said, is that Kamara is still adjusting to the new position after being shuf­fled between all three receiver spots. 

“To be quite honest with you [Kamara] hasn’t had a chance to settle into that position yet,” Kelly said after Wednesday’s practice. 
The competitions are ulti­mately good for the team, Jones said. 
“It pushes everyone to get better,” he said. “You never know, you could be third one day and start the next day. You never know.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 











