
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Alumna raises funds to film on campus 
By AMANDA GRAY The accident, which occurred “I’m now working on key piec-News Writer Jan. 24, 1992, took the lives of es of information that investors 
two of DeMaria’s teammates and and studios would need if they 
Nearly 20 years after the left her severely injured. decide to partner with us,” she Notre Dame women’s swim team Despite having been told she said. “The timeline is up in the bus accident, University of Notre would never walk again, De-air … That is the nature of the Dame officials approved film-Maria regained some sensations movie industry. It could happen ing on campus for a movie com-in her legs one week after the within the year, or it could be memorating event and was able to walk with three years.” the event. the help of a cane one month DeMaria said the original plan 
The film, 
later. was to fund the movie indepen­“Two Miles 
She returned to Notre Dame in dently. From Home,” 
the spring of 1992, began swim-“Now, I’ve learned that it’s not is a way for 
ming again with some difficulty that easy to raise the money,” survivor 
and eventually won a 50-meter she said. Haley Scott 
heat Oct. 29, 1993, a University This past summer, DeMaria DeMaria to 
press release stated. took a more active role in put-reflect on the 
In February, the University ting together a funding plan for event. gave permission to the produc-the film. 
“The one ers to film the motion picture. “This is such a personal story,” thing that DeMaria said the project, she said. “If I can’t do it right and jumps out at me is how young based on her 2008 book, “What with integrity, I wouldn’t do it.” we were, and how long the rest Though The Odds: Haley Scott’s DeMaria worked with screen-of our lives are,” she said. “I now Journey of Faith and Triumph,” writer Dan Waterhouse to get have lived with this [accident] will still happen, but she is un­longer than I didn’t.” sure when. see MOVIE/page 6 



Sigourney Weaver to teach, speak at Saint Mary’s 

By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
Academy Award nominated actress Sigourney Weaver’s film, “Abduction,” comes out Friday, and she was recently in California working on a new movie role. Come Monday, how­ever, she’ll stop at Saint Mary’s College to teach a class and speak with students. 
At the start of her visit, Weav­er will teach a master class to a select group of theatre majors. 
“We’re going to work on the process of what the audition is, [and] what’s important at an audition,” Weaver told The Ob­server. “We’re [also] going to work on some very rudimentary things — breathing, confidence, how to come into a room — ba­sic stuff, but I think very use­ful.” 
Weaver said she has collected acting advice throughout her career. 
“I went to drama school and didn’t learn very much,” she said. “In the 30 years since, I’ve now put together little bags of what I think is important.” 
Weaver’s husband, off-Broad­way director Jim Simpson, will also help teach the class. 
Although she and her hus­band are not teachers, Weaver said getting feedback from peo­ple immersed in the field can be helpful. 
“We’re not teachers, but we’re in the game,” she said. “So, I think it will be useful for the students to talk to us about this stuff.” 
One key to success in any field, Weaver said, is having confidence even when you truly 

see WEAVER/page 5 
Mendoza MBA named military-friendly school 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
G.I. Jobs magazine named the Mendoza College of Business MBA program a military friend­ly school for the third year in a row. 
Director of Admissions for the MBA program Brian Lohr said Mendoza has a history of sup­porting the armed forces and vice versa. 
 “If you go look at headstones in Holy Cross cemetery, you’ll see chaplains from the Civil War,” he said. 
Schools are ranked by the programs available, the finan­cial commitment to veterans and enlisted students, the success in recruiting military students and the school’s aca­demic accreditations, G.I. Jobs magazine’s website stated. 
The last three classes for the MBA program have aver­aged about 10 percent former military members, with all branches of the military rep­resented, Lohr said. 
“These students are tremen­dous leaders, coming from tremendous leadership expe­riences … They’re leaders in class, and they are working hard to prepare themselves for their next phase in life,” 

see FRIENDLY/page 3 



Professor researches tango 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
It may take two to tango, but it only takes one passionate professor to study the dance. 
A Fulbright grant recipient, Notre Dame professor Ma­ria Rosa Olivera-Williams is currently conducting field re­search on the cultural aspects of tango in Argentina and Uruguay. 
Olivera-Williams said her research will help finish the manuscript of her book, “The Rhythms of Modernization: Tango, Ruin, and Historical Memory in the Río de la Plata Countries,” by 2012. 
“I question how did tango … become the embodiment 

Photo courtesy of College of Arts & Letters 
Notre Dame professor Maria Rosa Olivera-Williams researches the cultural aspects of tango in Argentina and Uruguay. 
of modernization and a strong Her field research is the im­national symbol of Argentina portant final step in her years and Uruguay,” Olivera-Williams said. see TANGO/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Seniors develop theses projects page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Indie hip-hop artists page 11 u Men’s soccer plays No.3 Louisville page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW DO YOU SPEND FOOTBALL AWAY WEEKENDS? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Caitlin Housley Allan Joseph Adam Llorens Jack Hefferon Bridget Feeney Vicky Jacobson Graphics Scene Marina Kozak Troy Matthew Photo Viewpoint Sarah O’Connor Megan Kozak  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 64 LOW 46 



Natalia Cuevas  Caitlin Alli  Kelsey Burke  Alberto Ortiz  Ilse Zenteno  Chris Matthew  
sophomore  senior  senior  sophomore  sophomore  senior  
Lyons  off campus  off campus  Zahm  Pascrilla West  Stanford  
“I try to get  “Order Chinese  “I watch the  “Sleeping,  “Studying like  “Watching  
work done while  with my  game with  hydrating and  everyone else  Adventure  
watching the  roommates.”  friends.”  watching the  should be.”  Time!”  
game.”  game.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Politicians advocate for speed limits, tunnels for koalas 
AUSTRALIA — Special koala tunnels and tougher road speed limits would help avoid one of the leading causes of death of Austra­lia’s iconic marsupial, law­makers said Thursday. 
No-one knows how many koalas are left in the wild, but the numbers are slowly falling and road deaths are the second biggest cause. 
An inquiry by the upper house Senate urged nation­al and state government to take action to nurture the furry marsupial. 
“The committee is pleased that the koala may not yet be eligible for listing as threatened. The committee believes that to have such a significant Australian icon included on the threatened species list would be nation­al shame,” its acting chair­man Doug Cameron said. 

Some areas of dense koala populations have special ko­ala-proof fences around ma­jor roads, and tunnels which allow the animals to cross safely underneath. 
The Senate inquiry recom­mended local governments introduce lower speed limits around known koala areas, install koala-proof fencing on major roads, and build more tunnels and bridges to allow koalas to cross roads safely. 
Kangaroo attacks man 

GREEN CAMP, Ohio — An 80-year-old man is in fair condition after a kangaroo attacked him for 15 minutes at an exotic-animal farm in Ohio. 
The Columbus Dispatch reports that the Marion County sheriff’s office re­ceived a 911 call from a woman saying her father-in-law was hurt. The injury happened at Kokas Exotics in Green Camp. 
The farm owner’s son said the man was attacked by a 6-foot-tall, 200-pound male kangaroo. According to news reports, the attack came at breeding time when males can be aggressive.   
The son says the kangaroo will be euthanized. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
There will be a philosophy colloquium entitled “Toward a Theory of Being” today in Malloy Hall Room 202 from 3 to 5 p.m. The speaker will be professor Lorenz Puntel of the University of Munich. 
The Notre Dame Workshop on Ancient Philosophy will co-sponsor a Classics Collo­quium entitled “Socratic Re­ligion” today from 4 to 5:30 
p.m in O’Shaughnessy Hall Room 303. The speaker will be professor Mark McPher­ran of Simon Fraser Univer­sity. 
The film “East is East/ West is West” will be shown tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for stu­dents. 
The Latino Freshman Re­treat sponsored by Campus Ministry starts today and concludes Sunday. The re­treat focuses on issues of spe­cific interest to first-year La­tino students while building community and new friend­ship in a faith-filled context. The retreat is at Sacred Heart Parish Center. 
The 2011 Domer Run is tomorrow from 8 a.m. to 12 
p.m. Registration is at 8 a.m. at Legends and the race be­gins at 9 a.m. The race is a fun run to benefit local can­cer education and aware­ness programs. All partici­pants receive a T-shirt and a complimentary breakfast. Registration can be done online via RecRegister or at the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com. 



LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 











HIGH 63 LOW 46 
HIGH 68 LOW 54 




Seniors approach theses with passion 

By AUBREY BUTTS 
News Writer 
Senior Michael Rodio began his career at Notre Dame as a biology major. 
Now, Rodio is preparing for his senior thesis as a piano per­formance major. 
“I would rather spend four hours a day at the piano bench than a lab bench,” Rodio said. 
Having a passion for his sub­ject has driven his preparation for his thesis performance, Ro­dio said. 
“Do a thesis because you per­sonally need to do it, not be­cause you feel like you have to,” Rodio said. “It sounds trite, but if you love something, your work will be great, no matter how dif­ficult it is.” 
Rodio will perform a full-length recital as his thesis. He said the show will last about an hour. 
“My performance will include pieces ranging from a Hayden sonata to Gershwin’s ‘Rhapsody in Blue,’“ Rodio said. “Most stu­dents [in the major] perform re­citals at different points in their undergraduate career. While it’s technically part of the ma­jor, it is always something I have wanted to do.” 
Like Rodio, senior Eileen Gillespie used her passions to develop her American Studies thesis, inspired by a student government project she partici­pated in. 
“Last year, I found out about eND Hunger, a group on cam­pus that works with the West Side Food Security Council to in­crease food security on the West Side of South Bend,” Gillespie said. “I joined this group and re­ally started to learn about food deserts and the disparities that exist in food availability and quality among different neigh­borhoods.” 
Her experience with eND Hunger prompted Gillespie to research the relationship be­tween food security and social class for her senior thesis. 
“The most challenging thing so far has just been navigat­ing the research process as a whole,” Gillespie said. “I’ve done plenty of research papers for classes, but this is the first time that I am doing something of this caliber. 
Gillespie described her re­search experience as more “hands-on” than previous col­lege projects. 
“We each chose our own top­ic, and we actually have to go out and collect our data,” she said. “It’s not just something where you sit in the library and research information.” 
Gillespie’s post-graduation plans also influenced her thesis topic. 
“I think I want to eventually work in the food industry, either with nutrition or with food pol­icy, and my thesis topic relates quite well to that,” she said. “I hope to be better prepared for this field by the time I am done writing.” 
Senior Kevin DeLaMontaigne, another American Studies ma­jor, also said he hopes to draw examples from the local com­munity for his thesis. 
DeLaMontaigne will exam­ine the way homophobic lan­guage affects the social power structures in schools today. He became interested in the topic after reading several books on the subject for his classes. 
Now, he is waiting for paper­work to process before he can take the next steps. 
“Ideally, I would like to spend time in a school and observe children who have been affect­ed by this issue,” said DeLaMon­taigne, “However, until my UROP [Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program] applica­tion goes through, I have been limited to reading, internet re­search and examining the roles of gay-straight alliances.” 
Constructing a senior thesis paper is daunting, he said, but ultimately rewarding. 
“At the end of the year, I just think it will be really cool to be able to say I wrote a 50-page pa­per,” DeLaMontaigne said. 
Contact Aubrey Butts at          abutts@nd.edu 

Friendly 
continued from page 1 
Lohr said. “They are exactly the kind of students you want to have.” 
While all branches of the military are represented in the class, Lohr said the most rep­resented branch is the Army. 
One way the Mendoza Col­lege of Business attracts so many military students is with the Yellow Ribbon Program, which is used in conjunction with the G.I. Bill to help pay for veterans to go to graduate school, he said. 
The Yellow Ribbon program allows veterans to take the highest in-state tuition of any college in Indiana and apply it to the university of their choice, he said. 
“When the Yellow Ribbon Program is used in conjunc­tion with the G.I. Bill and our fellowship support, it makes for an attractive financial package,” Lohr said. 
However, Lohr said the Yel­low Ribbon Program did not change military student en­rollment that much since its introduction in 2009. 
“We didn’t really see that big of a jump, but we were com­mitted to [helping our veter­ans in various ways] before Yellow Ribbon,” Lohr said. 
One of the ways Notre Dame is committed to all the stu­dents in the two-year MBA program is through a career coach, Lohr said.  Students are assigned a career coach for their time at the University. 
“This helps them take their past work experience and shape that in a way that will be able to work in the private industry or whatever they want to go into,” Lohr said. 
Lohr said the program has been successful. 
“Last year we had quite a few military students end up on Wall Street,” he said. “That is a pretty significant transi­tion and speaks to the work the career coaches do with them.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at   aboari01@saintmarys.edu 



SMC Quidditch Club sorts teams for season 
By CECILIA GLOVER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s students may have been assigned a dorm when they first arrived at the College, but some received a new home last weekend when mem-
Richman said the club tries to keep the magic of the books alive at every meeting. 
“We try to incorporate as much of the magic found in the books into playing the game,” she said. “We used a sort­ing hat to pick the teams — an 
bers of the Saint Mary’s Quiddit ch Club were sorted into their respec­tive houses. 
“The 55 girls in the club were split into four groups, represent ­ing the four houses at Hog warts,” 
“Many people think Quidditch and ‘Harry Potter’ [are] dorky, but for us it’s just something we love.” 
Abby Altman secretary Saint Mary’s Quidditch Club 
element that is really in­volved in the sorting pro­cess at Hog­warts.” 
The club is a way for students who love “Harry Potter” to incorporate their passion for magic and wiz­ardry into a 
club president Leah Richman said, referring to the school in the “Harry Potter” book series. 
real life experience, Richman said. 
Vice President Abida Coric said Saint Mary’s alumna Al­lie Hensley stumbled across the International Quidditch Association (IQA) on the In­ternet her junior year, and put the idea into practice last year. 
Hensley discovered hun­dreds of teams worldwide were involved in the IQA. 
Although the Quidditch club does not usually com­pete against other schools, Richman said they will par­ticipate in a tournament hosted by Ball State and Pur­due University Oct. 8 to 9. 
Richman said she hopes to make the sport a commu­nity experience this year. The club will play matches at the Health Win Retirement Center and local elementary schools. 
Secretary Abby Altman said this club is the result of “Harry Potter” love. 
“We have a lot of big dreams for the club,” Altman said. “Many people think Quidditch and ‘Harry Potter’ [are] dorky, but for us it’s just something we love.” 

Richman said she hopes the Quidditch Club will be a way for girls to embrace their in­dividuality, especially fresh­men. 
“There are many freshmen on the team, and we know it is hard adjusting to that first year, so we want this club to be an outlet for them — a place where they can be who they are.” 
The Quidditch Club will have its first match Sunday at 3 p.m. on Library Green, and will host a “Halloween Hullabaloo” on Oct. 30 with themed food, drinks and a wizard rock band. 
Contact Cecilia Glover at cglove01@saintmarys.edu 


Georgia execution sparks outrage 
Associated Press Davis was executed late 
Wednesday for the 1989 mur-
ATLANTA — Minutes before der of off-duty Savannah police he was put to death, Troy Davis officer Mark MacPhail. Defense asked his supporters to “con-attorneys said several key wit­tinue to fight this fight” — but nesses disputed their testimo­will they, and how? ny and other people claimed 
The Georgia inmate’s case that another man confessed to outraged hundreds of thou-the crime, but state and federal sands of people around the courts repeatedly upheld the world who found the evidence conviction. against him weak, and op-Davis maintained his inno­ponents of the death penalty cence even as he was strapped hope their anger provokes a to a gurney in the death cham­backl ash ber, where against capi-he told the tal punish-MacPh ail 
ment. Some “I don’t know if he’s family to activists guilty or not, but he’s “look deeper say a fitting into this case 
not proven guilty.” 
legacy of the so that you case would really can fi-
Melvin Middleton 
be laws that nally see the bar death prostestor truth.” 
sentences for those, like Davis, whose convictions are based on eye­witness testimony. 
With Davis gone, however, the loose coalition of groups who pushed for his freedom may simply crumble. Much may depend not on the death penalty’s most strident oppo­nents, but on less politically active people who were drawn into the debate by Davis’ two-decade struggle. 
That includes Melvin Middle­ton, who believes capital pun­ishment can be appropriate. After learning more details about Davis’ case, he decided to show up at a downtown At­lanta rally opposing the execu­tion. 
“If you’re going to take some­one’s life, you better be damn sure you are making the right decision,” he said. “I don’t know if he’s guilty or not, but he’s not proven guilty.” 
Pros­
ecutors and 
MacPhail ’s relatives say they have no doubt that justice was done, but among Davis’ supporters, frustration runs deep. 
“We did not want to lose Troy Davis as a casualty of this war, but I do think that his execution in a real sense will only add momentum to the movement of those of us who understand that the state really cannot be trusted with the ultimate pun­ishment,” said the Rev. Raphael Warnock, who spoke on Da­vis’ behalf at a pardons board hearing this week. 
Already, there are calls for lasting changes to the capital punishment system from Da­vis’ advocates. Former Presi­dent Jimmy Carter said he hopes “this tragedy will spur us as a nation toward the to­tal rejection of capital pun­ishment.” Filmmaker Michael Moore posted a statement on his website calling for a boy­cott of Georgia. 
The Rev. Al Sharpton, who visited Davis on death row, said he will push for a national ban on capital punishment in cases that rely on eyewitness testimony. Maryland passed such a law in 2009. 
“We must not only mourn what happened to Troy Davis but take strong measures so that it does not happen again,” Sharpton said. 
The Davis execution comes at a time when death penalty decisions are under increased scrutiny. The number of ex­ecutions has dropped by half over the last decade, from 98 in 1999 to 46 in 2010. Illinois abolished capital punishment in March and several other states, including California and Connecticut, are expected to consider similar proposals next year. 
More than 3,200 U.S. in­mates were on death row at the beginning of 2011, according to the Death Penalty Informa­tion Center. 
Public support for capital punishment remains strong, according to several polls. This month, a CBS/NY Times poll found that 60 percent of those surveyed supported the death penalty for people convicted of murder, with 27 percent op­posed and 13 percent unsure. past two decades have shown slightly higher support, though Gallup found Americans to be closely divided when asked to choose between the death penalty and life imprisonment with no chance of parole. 
Laura Moye of Amnesty In­ternational said she expects the Davis execution to be used to rally repeal movements across the country. 
Tango 
continued from page 1 
of research about modern­ization in Latin America and the cultural phenomenon of tango, she said. 
“I have been studying and writing on modernization in Latin America for many years,” she said. “I became passionate about tango in 
“Since its origins, tango brought to the present of its displaced creators — Italian immigrants and rural mi­grants — images and sounds from the past, a past to which they could not return and did not want to return,” she said. “The present time of modernization in the lyr­ics, music and dance of tango is seen in its vulnerability, paradoxically at a time when debates on Latin American modernity and nation build­
2002, when I saw peo­ple in Bue­nos Aires, [A rgen­
tina] and “I am re-entering the Montevi -Uruguayan culture and this deo, [Uru-experience will make a huge guay] who difference in my writing.” 
were de­manding 
Maria Rosa Olivera-Williams 
justice for 
professor 
the dis­appeared and for all the crimes of the 1970s and ing played out.” 
Olivera-Williams is current­ly living in Montevi ­deo and her re­search is based at the Uni­versidad de Mon­tev ideo . She will also give lectures about her 
1980s dictatorships tightly embraced in tango figures in the streets and parks.” 
Olivera-Williams said the research she is doing in Mon­tevideo and the research she plans to do in Buenos Aires is significant because it al­lows her to experience the culture of different commu­nities firsthand. 
“I am re-entering the Uru­guayan culture and this ex­perience will make a huge difference in my writing,” she said. “I am in the best place of [Montevideo], very close to [where] I was born and raised.” 
Olivera-Williams’ unique contribution to the existing scholarly work on the subject of tango is studying tango as a cultural ruin. 

Weaver 
continued from page 1 
don’t. 
“People aren’t concerned with whether you are confident or not, but they want you to look [it],” she said. “Not arrogant, but just [comfortable] in your skin.” 
The key to achieving this confi­dence is imagining yourself in the situation before it happens, she said. 
“Pretend to be confident ... Visual­ize what [an] interview [would] be like if [you] were really confident, and ... imagine it going a certain way,” Weaver said. “You’re at ease, you’re smiling, you’re generous, you’re just yourself. Picture it going that way, and there’s probably a bigger likelihood of it going that way because you’ve actually — with the neurons in your brain — tried to map out how you would love it to go. Everyone needs a rehearsal.” 
Weaver said she is not the only well-known actor to use this method of preparation. 
“I worked with Gene Hackman,” she said. “[In “Heartbreakers”], he was to play ... this guy who is falling all over himself chain-smoking. 
“He fake-smoked so well. I said, ‘Man, you must have been a smoker for half your life,’ and he said, ‘Never smoked.’ I said, ‘But you’re just so good at it,’ and he said, ‘You know, the first day, I just come in and I pretend to be confident.’” 
Another key to success in any field, Weaver said, is to love the job you have. 
“You only want to get a job at a place where you’re going to have a good time and feel like yourself,” she said. 
research at the Universidad de Montevideo and The Arti­gas Institute, which prepares future high school teachers. She was also invited to de­liver a lecture at the Univer­sidad de Chile in Santiago, Chile. 
Olivera-Williams said to receive a Fulbright grant, a professor must have a strong proposal and demonstrate how the grant will make an important difference in his or her research and final product. 
“This award lets me know that the scholars who read and evaluated my project felt the importance of it and shared my passion,” she said. 
Contact Christian Myers at        cmyers8@nd.edu 
Weaver said it’s difficult for her to choose her favorite film she has acted in because she often chooses projects based on how much fun they will be. However, she narrowed down her fa­vorites to “Ghostbusters” and “Galaxy Quest.” 
Weaver said there are very few roles she regrets turning down, but the roles she has taken — especially her roles in “Prayers for Bobby,” “Go­rillas in the Mist” and “The Year of Living Dangerously” — were very re­warding. 
“I’ve been lucky because I’ve been blessed with such a wonderful career, so it’s hard to pick just one [project that’s the most rewarding],” she said. 
But rewards often bring challenges. 
“The business is always changing, and the biggest challenge for all of us in the business  — whether we are ac­tors or not –— is to continue to work to provide very good stories for the audience, whether they’re at Pixar or in 3-D, on television or in the theater,” Weaver said. “It’s just getting a little harder to make sure the story is as strong as it needs to be to captivate the audience.” 
Yet Weaver continues to work on captivating the audience. 
“I’m about to play a professor of queer theory in a movie out in Cali­fornia.  She’s a lesbian professor, runs the department ... quite fierce and also very funny.” 
In the midst of a busy schedule, Weaver said she is excited for her visit to Saint Mary’s. 
“I’m looking forward to working with the students, meeting them and just having a few hours to play around with them,” she said. “I think it will be fun.” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 

Wall Street finishes poorly 

Associated Press 
Investors began giving in to fears Thursday that a global recession is already under way, and stock markets shud­dered around the world. Sell­ing started in Asia, picked up speed in Europe and sent Wall Street near its worst finish of the year. 
The Dow Jones industrial average lost 391 points and at one point was down more than 500, a return to the volatility that gripped the market this summer. 
One financial indicator af­ter another showed that in­vestors are losing hope that the global economy can keep growing. The price of oil and metals such as copper, which depend on economic demand, fell sharply. Traders bought Treasury bonds and the dollar for safety. 
FedEx, a company that ships so many goods it is considered a barometer of the U.S. econo­my, had to lower its earnings forecast for the year because customers are putting off pur­chases of electronics and other gadgets from China. 
The Dow fell 391.01 points, or 3.5 percent, and closed at 10,733.83. The selling was not just steep but broad: Nineteen stocks on the New York Stock Exchange fell for every one that rose. At one point, the Dow was down more than 500 points. 
“Markets rely on confidence and certainty. Right now there is neither,” said John Canally, an economic strategist at LPL Financial, an investment firm in Boston. 
It was the second consecu­tive rout in the stock market since Wednesday afternoon, when the Federal Reserve an­nounced a change in strategy for fighting the economic slow­down — a bid to lower long­term interest rates and get people and companies to spend more money. 
Economic news was bad around the world. A closely watched survey in Europe in­dicated a recession could be on the way there, and a manu­facturing survey suggested a slowdown in China, which has been one of the hottest econo­mies. 
“The probability of going back into recession is higher now than at any point in the recovery,” said Tim Quinlan, an economist at Wells Fargo. He put his odds of a recession at 35 percent. 
Christine Lagarde, the head of the International Monetary Fund, said the world economy was “entering a dangerous phase.” She told an annual meeting of the IMF and World Bank that nations need cred­ible plans to get their debt un­der control. 
In the United States, inves­tors poured money into Ameri­can government debt, which they see as less risky than stocks even as the nation wres­tles with how to tame its long­term budget problems. 
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note hit 1.71 per­cent — the lowest since the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis started keeping daily records half a century ago. It was 3.66 percent as re­

cently as Feb-“Markets rely on back to work. 
ruary, when confidence and Pass this the economic certainty. Right now jobs bill right forecast was there is neither.” away.” brighter. Top Re-
Yields fall publicans in 
John Canally 
as investors Congress ac-
economic strategist 
buy bonds cused Obama 
LPL Financial 
and send their of trying to 10 and 512 points on Aug. 4. 
It would have to fall 485 more points to reach the traditional definition of a bear market — a 20 percent decline. The Dow was at 12,810 on April 29. 
The Standard & Poor’s 500 index, a broader measure of the stock market, and the Nas­daq composite, which is more heavily weighted with technol­ogy stocks, both fell more than 3 percent for the day. 
To get the economy going, President Barack Obama has proposed a $447 billion pack­age of tax cuts, public works projects and benefits for the unemployed, but it faces major opposition in the Republican-controlled House. 
While the market was falling Thursday, the president stood in front of an aging bridge that connects Ohio and Kentucky. He exhorted Republicans: “Help us put this country 
prices higher. Small yields are a sign that investors are just look­ing for a safe place to park their cash. 
“They want to get their money back,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed income strate gist at Janney Capital Markets. “How much they earn is secondary.” 
Besides U.S. bonds, investors bought American dollars. The dollar rose to an eight-month high against the euro because of fears that Europe, staggered by debt, will bear the worst of a global downturn. 
The Dow almost matched its lowest close of the year, 10,719 on Aug. 10. The stock market was seized by volatil­ity last month, and at one point the Dow strung together four consecutive days of 400-point moves up or down. 
In a sign of what a rocky year it has been for the stock mar­ket, Thursday’s decline isn’t even close to the biggest in 2011. The Dow fell 634 points on Aug. 8, 519 points on Aug. 
score political 
points. If Con­
gress fails to 
pass the jobs 
bill, it would 
leave the Fed action this week as the only major new initiative designed to help the economy. 
The Fed announced Wednes­day that it would shuffle $400 billion of its own holdings in hopes of reducing interest rates on long-term loans. The plan is known as Operation Twist, a nod to a similar ap­proach taken by the Fed dur­ing the time of Chubby Checker in the early 1960s. 
The central bank hopes that if people and business­es are able to borrow money more cheaply, they will spend throughout the economy and give it a lift. 
Still, the Fed announcement troubled investors because it came with a bleak assessment of the future. The Fed said it sees “significant downside risks to the economic outlook,” including volatility in overseas markets. 
Movie 
continued from page 1 
the project translated from book to screen. 
“He’s a great fit because he understands the University,” DeMaria said. 
Waterhouse, who is also the film’s director, said he hopes this story will teach viewers how to live life. 
“The big word for me is ‘perseverance,’” he said. “[De-Maria] had everything going against her. She lost her friends, her swimming. It teaches you to not look at things the way they immediately appear, but to look ahead to what they can be.” 
The film should mean the most to Notre Dame students and alumni, DeMaria said. 
“I hope they appreciate the enthusiasm of the community,” she said. “Moments of trial are what make Notre Dame what it is. I saw the memorial masses [for Sept. 11 and football team videographer Declan Sulli­van]. I wasn’t able to go to the masses for my teammates. I was able to glimpse something from my own life [while watch­ing these]. 
“Those are things I didn’t ful­ly appreciate as a student. This should teach you to go back to the fundamentals. Notre Dame is such a wonderful place of faith, healing and community, and it’s like this for every stu­dent — whether they know it or not, whether they like it or not.” 
The transition from De­Maria’s book to screenplay took almost an entire year, Water­house said. 
“I knew this was a huge per­sonal story and that the Univer­sity would be shown in a dif­ferent light than it’s normally seen,” he said. 
The most difficult part was writing dialogue that fit the characters, especially because DeMaria’s book doesn’t have much dialogue. 
“I had to create it by knowing how people react to a tragedy,” he said. 
Waterhouse used interviews with many members of the Notre Dame family, as well as interviews with the coaches and DeMaria’s family. 
“It’s interesting to read dia­logue and hear, or not hear, the person’s voice. Dan was good about going back and letting me read scenes,” DeMaria said. 
Satisfied with the screenplay, DeMaria said she looks for­ward to filming, even though the timeline has not yet been established. 
“The University will always be involved,” she said. “[Uni­versity support] will never go away, no matter what else changes.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

Divided Congress clashes over disaster aid distribution 
Associated Press 
With the economy sputtering, Congress’ unusual difficulty in delivering disaster aid or even keeping the government from shutting down is a discouraging sign for action as a bitterly di­vided Washington looks ahead to critical debate on President Barack Obama’s jobs plan and efforts by a “supercommittee” to slash deficits. 
Republicans controlling the House scrambled Thursday to resurrect a $3.7 billion disas­ter aid package after an em­barrassing loss the previous day. Instead of reaching out to Democrats, House GOP leaders looked to persuade wayward tea party Republicans to change their votes and help approve the assistance. 
The battling came as the stock market absorbed fresh losses and pessimism about the economy deepened. The ar­guing was reminiscent of the poisonous atmosphere of this summer rather than lawmak­ers’ more recent promises to work together to find common ground where possible. 
Obama hardly sounded con­ciliatory as he pressed for action on his jobs bill at an Ohio River bridge that links Republican House Speaker John Boehner’s home state of Ohio with Senate Republican leader Mitch McCo­nnell’s Kentucky. Echoing Ron­ald Reagan at the Berlin Wall, Obama intoned, “Mr. Boehner, Mr. McConnell, help us rebuild this bridge.” 
In Washington, Wednesday’s embarrassing 230-195 defeat of the disaster aid bill in the GOP-majority House exposed divisions within the Republi­can Party that demonstrated the tenuous grip that Boehner has on the chamber. Forty-eight Republicans opposed the mea­sure, chiefly because it would permit spending at the rate ap­proved in last month’s debt pact between Boehner and Obama, a level that is unpopular with tea party lawmakers. 
GOP leaders said they hoped to win a vote on a largely iden­tical measure by convincing wayward Republicans that the alternative was to give Demo­crats a better deal by adding more disaster aid or decoupling it from $1.5 billion in spending cuts. 
“What we voted on yesterday was the best deal Republicans could get and it can only go downhill from here,” said Rep. Peter King, R-N.Y. “So we should try to revote again on the same bill we had yesterday, vote on it again, pass it this time, or if not we’ll have to make concessions that would help the Democrats.” 
Democrats appeared poised to again oppose the legislation if, as expected, the $1.5 bil­lion in accompanying spending cuts would come from an En­ergy Department loan program that helps automobile and parts manufacturers retool their plants to build fuel efficient ve­hicles. 
House leaders say they are considering taking $100 million from a loan guarantee program 



An Energy Department offi­cial said the reserve fund has at least $100 million in it. The program expires on Sept. 30. 
Time is running short. Home­land Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said Thursday that the government’s main disas­ter aid account is “running on fumes” and could be tapped out as early as early next week. She called on Congress to quickly resolve the problem or risk de­lays in getting disaster projects approved. 
“I’m hopeful that Congress will work this out in the next couple of days,” Napolitano told The Associated Press as she flew to Joplin, Mo., to view tornado damage. “We have stretched this as far as it can go. We are scraping the bottom of the barrel.” 
As of Thursday morning, there was just $212 million in the Federal Emergency Man­agement Agency’s disaster relief fund. The failed House measure contains $3.7 billion. A rival Senate measure mus­cled through that chamber last week by Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., with the help of 10 Republicans, would provide $6.9 billion. 
Republicans hope that if the House passes the measure Sen­ate Democrats will have little choice but to accept it. 
The drama and battling over disaster aid and stopgap spend­ing is unusual. Such measures usually pass routinely since the alternative is shutting down much of the government and de­nying help to victims of floods, hurricanes and other disasters. 
The current imbroglio illus­trates the difficulty lawmakers are sure to have when trying to address tougher problems. The toughest task confronts the so-called supercommittee, which is supposed to come up with at least $1.2 trillion in deficit sav­ings over the coming decade to implement the August budget and debt pact. 
The panel had its third public meeting Thursday, again expos­ing differences between Repub­licans and Democrats on taxes. The panel has until Thanksgiv­ing to produce legislation — and there’s no sign yet of much progress toward agreement. 
The chaos in the House con­trasted with an unusually pro­ductive week in the Senate, which was on track Thursday to approve legislation to help American workers who fall vic­tim to foreign competition. The move to renew expired portions of the Trade Adjustment Assis­tance program, which provides retraining and financial sup­port for workers adversely af­fected by trade, sets the stage for Obama to submit trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama. 
for renewable energy projects approved under the 2009 stim­ulus law. Congress set aside $2.4 billion in case some of the loans went bad, such as a $528 million loan to now-bankrupt Solyndra Inc., a California-based solar panel maker effu­sively praised by Obama. 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, September 23, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Capitalpunishment 
Troy Davis’ execution on Wednesday, Sept. 21, brought the debate on capital punishment back to the forefront of legal issues, as people around the world pro­tested against the execution of a man they believed to be innocent. Daniel Azic 
In 1989, Davis was convicted of Graphic Designer murdering Mark MacPhail, an undercover police officer, when MacPhail was breaking up a fight that arose in a Burger King parking lot. During Davis’ 1991 trial, several witnesses testified that he was the shooter. Davis was convicted of murder and was sentenced to death. 
However, after the trial, seven of the nine witnesses recanted or contradicted their original testimony. A number of the witnesses also stated in sworn affidavits that police had coerced them into testifying against Davis. 
One of the other two witnesses was Sylvester Coles. Coles was the primary al­ternate suspect in the case. This brings into question the sincerity of Coles’ testimony. Counting Coles, reasonable doubt remains amongst eight out of the nine witnesses. In addition to this, nine individuals have signed affidavits implicating Coles as the murderer. In 2010, the final court hearing for the case was upheld and an appeal to the Supreme Court was rejected. 
Nearly one million people signed peti­tions urging the Georgia Board of Pardons and Paroles to moderate the severity of Davis’ punishment. Despite this wave of support, the petition was denied. 
Davis’ case is a perfect example of the faults in our system of capital punishment. Although Davis was not able to prove his innocence in his appeals, he was able to cast doubt and uncertainty onto his convic­tion. This uncertainty put Georgia’s justice system in risk of making an irreversible mistake, as more evidence could arise in the future. Between 1973 and 2005, 123 people in 25 states were released from death row due to the emergence of new evidence proving their innocence. Although this is only a small percentage of the number of people who have been on death row, it still highlights the fact that our lengthy system of appeals is not foolproof. If evidence proving Davis’ innocence does emerge in the coming years, the justice system would have made a monumental mistake and public confidence in them would weaken. 
And here lies the main problem I, and so many others, have with the death penalty. Why risk the chance of killing an innocent man when you could keep him locked up in prison for the rest of his life? 
Many argue that it is not cost effective, however, that argument has proven to be on loose grounds given the high costs of appeal cases. For example, Urban Institute reports that in Maryland, death penalty cases cost three times more than non-death penalty cases at around $3 million for a single case. 
Others argue that the death penalty deters murdering. Yet, over 65 percent of the world’s countries have abolished the death penalty. It seems odd that proven deterrent is being abolished more and more across the globe. Such a developed nation as the United States should not continue to practice such an archaic law. 
Although Davis’ case is one of grief and sorrow, it is significant in increasing aware­ness of and opposition toward our capital punishment system. Hopefully the mil­lions of people who have been disturbed by Davis’ execution will act on their grief and push legislation to make a change. 
Contact Daniel Azic at dazic@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Do good 
When you’re finished reading this editorial, take a walk. 
Walk past the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, through Irish Green and down Eddy Street. Cross South Bend Avenue, and just as Club 23 comes into view on your right, turn left. 
You’re standing in front of Perley Elementary School. 

Perley is a microcosm of education in modern America. The performance statistics are startling. In the 2003-04 school year, only 24 percent of Perley’s students met Indiana stan­dardized testing requirements. Since then, 
the numbers have improved steadily, but not dramatically. In 2008-09, the most recent time frame for which performance data is public, 
44.6 percent passed. 
While this improvement is a step in the right direction, four out of 10 is not good. Perley students perform nearly 20 percent below the 

state average on these tests, and the Indiana average is middle-of-the-road compared to other states. But 60 percent is not good enough. Not in Indiana, not in Alabama, not anywhere. Suffice it to say, America has an education problem. 
The American educational system has long been envied around the world. Recently, however, our priorities have shift­ed to domestic security, economic prosperity and international turmoil. Discussion of education reform often emits more heat than light, and the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 has been widely criticized. 
Education experts say the government must provide ways for schools to improve instead of simply punishing schools that perform poorly on standardized tests or throwing money at the problem. Accountability needs to be the main priority. While federal funding for education increased nearly 30 percent since the Act, test scores from 2000 to 2003 are nearly identi­cal to those three years after the implementation. 
Something needs to be done. 

This week, Notre Dame announced that its annual Forum will be titled “Reimagining School: To Nurture the Soul of a Nation.” The University will host events throughout the year to discuss the problems — and the solutions — in American schools. In an email to the student body last week, University President Fr. John Jenkins quoted Notre Dame’s founder, Fr. 
Edward Sorin. In an 1842 letter to the Congregation of Holy Cross in France, Sorin proclaimed that Notre Dame would be­come “one of the most powerful means for good in this coun­try.” 
This statement emboldens us to act when met with chal­lenges. 
When you walk back to Notre Dame, you will rejoin a vast majority of students who matriculated from top-performing public and private high schools across the 


country. In this environment, it is easy to sit in our comfortable ivory tower. Yet because of the Notre Dame mission to “do good,” many of us feel an insatiable urge to help. We volunteer at schools like Perley here in South Bend, we sign up for summer service projects aimed at help­ing schoolchildren and we give up two years of 
our lives after graduation to work with Teach for America or the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE). 
But something more needs to be done. Why should we do it? 
Two reasons, really. 
First, because as the statistics from Perley illustrate, some­thing more needs to be done. Second, because we can. 
The Forum begins Monday with a keynote speech by former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, younger brother of the president that signed the No Child Left Behind Act. Bush is now CEO of the Foundation for Education Excellence, a think tank working to prepare American schoolchildren for success in a competitive global economy. After his address Monday, four of the leading American voices on education will convene Wednesday to dis­cuss ways to meet education’s extraordinary challenges. 
Assuming you’re back from your walk by Monday, go to the Forum. 
Ask questions. Make your voice heard. Listen. Learn. 
Start talking about these issues with friends around cam­pus. Talk to professors, and find out what you can do to help. Go over to Perley, and tutor local children. Sign up for ACE. 
Education is the foundation of our country’s future. and our system is crumbling before our eyes. It is too big of a risk to do nothing. 
Do what Father Sorin asked of you — do good. 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
WEEKLY POLL RESULTS 
“Follow your passion. Stay true to yourself. Never follow someone else’s path unless you’re in the woods and you’re lost and you see a path. By all means, you should follow that.” 
Ellen DeGeneres 
U.S. comedian and actress 



Friday, September 23, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Flat over fair 
I hate taking issue with my fellow con­servatives. With so much damage being caused by our liberal counterparts, it is dumb to spend time bickering amongst ourselves about details. However, it is important we put up a united front when it comes to solving our nation’s problems. 
The Fair Tax is a popular conservative proposal to solve our unfair and broken tax code. There are many ways to cheat the current system, if you can find the loop­holes in the code. 
The Fair Tax involves the elimina­tion of federal income taxes in favor of a high national sales tax. The idea is to more equally distribute the tax burden among all Americans because all of us have to consume goods and services, regardless of our financial status. The theory is sound, however, I think it really overlooks major realities on the ground that not only would create the same problems we are having now, but could even be worse. 
Basic reform of our current system is not enough to truly equate the tax bur­den faced by all citizens of all financial classes. The current progressive system makes only the top half of all Americans essentially pay all of the taxes. That would mean that I pay for myself and some random person I don’t even know. 
But it gets worse. Most of the tax bur­den (over four-fifths) is paid by the very wealthy. Now that doesn’t seem too bad if you are not personally wealthy. The common saying is “they can afford to pay more.” 

The problem is the “super-rich” people are usually in charge of large and small businesses that create jobs for everyone else. If we don’t reward and incentiv­ize people to invest, then jobs don’t get created and we lose our edge to others overseas who will step up. 
People also predicate that taxes are the only way we can achieve some type of social welfare in our self-centered and greed-filled capitalist society. This is fundamentally untrue because the wealthy are also patrons of many social causes that improve the lives of the downtrodden. It is one thing to be able to volunteer to build a house for Habitat for Humanity. It is a whole other thing to buy the materials to build the house. 
The wealthy also donate to religious organizations that seek to fulfill social welfare services in the community. These organizations operate at much higher efficiencies than the government could ever hope to achieve. We need a fairer tax system so the rich can afford to be more generous through non-gov­ernmental means. This doesn’t just mean donating to good causes, but investing in new companies and creating new jobs and opportunities in for-profit ventures. 
A Fair Tax rightfully assumes that current tax code heavily burdens those in the top half and especially the top 1 percent of Americans. Imagine either how much more the government could provide if we had every person pay (socialist approach) or how much less everybody would have to pay if everyone contributed (conservative approach). Either way it is better than what we have and certainly more fair. 
Taxing consumption ensures that everyone pays in a “fair” share of the 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Reasons why you should return my bike 
On Wednesday, Sept. 21, my bike was stolen. While true that I didn’t lock it prop­erly, that still gives nobody a right to steal it. I’m hoping it was more “borrowed without permission” by a student late for class, and I can sympathize as anyone who knows me can assure you. And I will be totally nice about it if you return it, because I understand needing to get across our gorgeous campus quickly. 
Here are the reasons you should return my bike: 
1.
 Sustainability. I got that bike so I could ride to and from my house off-campus. If you return it, I won’t have to drive, thereby reducing my carbon footprint and do­ing my part to lessen our dependence on foreign oil. 

2.
 State of Grace. You don’t want to arrive at Mass on a stolen bicycle, do you? Returning the bike is the right thing to do. 

3.
 I will take care of it. Many bikes around here fall victim to Old Man Winter, but I have a house with a basement and a garage. I will ride it regularly, maintain the tires, oil the chain, etc. If you won’t take care of it this winter, at least return it by the first snowfall. 


4. Thou shalt not steal. 
If you accidentally borrowed my bike yesterday, please return it to me, no ques­tions asked! The bike is a brand-new, silver, 54 cm, 18 speed with shimano shifter aluminum men’s road bike. It has dropped handle bars with black bar tape and says “zerograv” in white. Drop it off at the lost and found, or contact me and we can meet up. I understand if you like riding my bike. I like riding it too. I hope who­ever took my bike could find it in his or her heart to help a poor graduate student out and give it back! 
Thank you, Notre Dame! 
Jill Voreis graduate student off campus Sept. 22 


national tax revenue based on how much they can afford to consume. The super wealthy will still buy their expensive cars, planes and boats and as a result will have to pay more in taxes for those items. The poor who only have to pay for food, medical care and housing will pay in much less. 
While in theory it seems like a fair system, I have my doubts that it would be the same story in practice. This is quite a radical reform that must first be asked several questions. 
The first is how would we imple­ment a national sales tax and eliminate the income tax? In Europe, countries already have national sales taxes (VAT or Value Added Tax) on top of the taxes they already have. How would we ensure greedy politicians would not just impose the national sales tax and leave it at that? 
Another question is how they will ad­dress the significant artificial price infla­tion on all goods that will result? In my experience, any government meddling in the market usually carries negative consequences or inefficiencies. 
Finally there are no guarantees that the tax code will not be manipulated to lessen the tax burden on poorer Ameri­cans. We would trade one corrupted tax code for another with all types of loop holes and breaks for special interests. 
I believe the Flat Tax is the only practi­cal solution to honest and productive tax reform and easiest to convince the American people that it’s a simple and good idea. The Flat Tax is as basic as it gets. As a taxpayer, I calculate how much income I made over a period (12 months, six months, three months) and I take a set percentage of that and send it into the Internal Revenue Service. No cheating, no breaks, no complicated paperwork. 
The system is also highly adjustable. It can incorporate a progressive scale such as the bottom rate pays 15 percent and the top rate pays 20 percent. The IRS can also collect on a schedule that is efficient, instead of once per year. 
Estimates show that even at lower rates for everyone, a Flat Tax would bring in significantly more money to the 
U.S. Treasury because more people are paying in and the tax burden is being shared among all citizens. 
It is also objectively fair. Someone that is unemployed will pay in their 15 percent just like everyone else but since they made no money over the period, they pay no taxes. A person working as a day clerk at a gas station with a modest salary will only pay a modest amount in taxes. For a billionaire who made significant income over the period, their percentage of taxes owed is going to be a very large sum of money. 
Whoever makes more pays in more, and who ever doesn’t make as much, doesn’t pay in as much. That is the defi­nition of fair, but in this case, everyone pays into the system and has equal access to public services as opposed to just some paying into the system, but ev­eryone having equal access to services. With everyone having a little “skin in the game,” Flat Tax proponents claim people will take their role in our country’s poli­tics more seriously, which probably is a good thing. 
Mark Easley is a senior computer science major. He can be contacted at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 



ing the rest of our Senior Bayo Omoyeni and Junior square with a rac­group — not that Giselle Teixeira model leather ing collar. Of course, I’m speaking from jackets go with what fits 
personal experi­ence, or anything. 
In the ensuing identity crisis we may ask ourselves 
— “Who am I? What am I doing here? Will I ever attain that breezy nonchalant at­titude I channel through my ac­cessories? Fash­ion, my love, why are you deserting me?” Again, not that I’m quoting from personal ex­perience or previ­ous fashion melt­downs. 
But then we re­member — the clothes don’t wear us, we wear the clothes. We are the masters of our own fashion desti­nies and the identities we project through them. Searching for that perfect outfit doesn’t make us fash­ion addicts, it makes us the authors of our own fashion sensibility. And, like any great literary genius, we need a tried-and-true story point to begin our individual fashion journeys. What item of style could you best and what makes you feel the most confident. While black may work for some, a less edgy dark brown may feel more apt for others. 
This look works for both women and men. Women— throw it over jeans and a T-shirt or even over your favor­ite cocktail dress. Casual or dressy, it makes any out­fit a combination of strength and femi­nine savvy. Men can work leather with jeans and a T-shirt 
or with dress pants and an Oxford 
shirt, reminding us that there’s 
self-assured steel underneath that 
easy handsome exterior. Start your leather jacket jour­
ney with selections at zara.com. 
Contact Felicia Caponigri at fcaponig@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this 
column are those of the author and 
not necessarily of The Observer. 
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 
By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 
“Drive” is the kind of movie that makes you feel at least 45 percent cooler as you’re leaving the theater. 
Ryan Gosling plays a wunderkind, unnamed Hollywood stunt driver by day, and a heist getaway man by night. When he falls for the pretty and troubled young mother next door (Carey Mulligan), chaos is introduced into his regimented life-style. 
Director Nicolas Winding Refn masterminded this ‘80s-infused noir drama, set in the streets of L.A., which are shown off in the film’s opening sequence. 
The soundtrack is a huge asset to the film, and sets the tone without taking over the movie. Featuring Cliff Martinez, former drummer of the Red Hot Chili Peppers, the music is subtle but powerful. Such music is a difficult feat for any movie, let alone one in the action/suspense genre — which usually tosses subtlety out the window of a cop car while doing a triple flip in the air. 
But this reflects Gosling’s mysteri­ous, subtle and powerful character. 
Gosling’s character is a minimal­ist, who lives in an empty apartment, save for a table and chair. Gosling’s character speaks maddeningly little. 
“I’m a driver,” he says, and he re­ally doesn’t need another word. His character speaks through distinct James Dean-esque actions — like making a fist with his leather driv­ing gloves or chewing on an ornately carved toothpick. It adds suspense to the movie, because every gesture and shot is aimed for maximum im­pact. 
Bryan Cranston, who earned his post-“Malcolm in the Middle” street cred on AMC’s hit show “Breaking Bad,” plays the scrappily lovable Shannon. Unlucky in his past deal­ings in the underbelly of society, Shannon has somehow scored the trust and loyalty of Gosling, and ar­ranges ways for him to use his talent. 
Albert Brooks (think the voice of Marlin in “Finding Nemo”) is an in­spired piece of casting, He stars as the calculated local mob boss who takes an interest in Gosling. Chris­tina Hendricks, of “Mad Men,” has a small role as a washed up mobster. Hendricks is surprisingly poignant, and brings attention to a character that would usually be a throwaway. 
Gosling’s interest in Mulligan’s character and her son leads him to break his normal heist rules, and he ends up getting tangled in a deadly situation. The one hang up is the film’s descent into a blood-orgy of epic proportions, which, depending on if you’re a Tarantino fan or not, could make or break “Drive” for you. 

Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 

By FELICIA CAPONIGRI 
Scene Writer 

There are certain times in a fash­ionista’s life when she fears she has got it all wrong. 
These moments are, without a doubt, harrowing enough to reduce even the stron­gest among us to bite and ruin our perfectly-mani­cured nails, bap­tized in the latest shade of trendy OPI nail polish. Even our male counterparts are prone to this nig­gling sense of fashion doubt, just witness Mr. Fitzgerald’s Let­ter to the Editor, “Is a Scarf too Metro?” 
We may de­scend the stairs in a Audrey Hep­burn/Sabrina­inspired sheath and heels, excited to dine at a hip Fondue restau­rant by the Pan­theon in Paris, only to find we are distinctly out of touch with the cool skinny jeans, white T-shirts, comfortable flats and Superga sneakers adorn-






live up to plot-points the likes 
of Ernest Hemingway’s “Moveable 
Feast,” F. Scott Fitzgerald’s “Great 
Gatsby” or JD Salinger’s “Catch 
er in the Rye?”  Ladies and Gentlemen, 
only the leather jacket will do. The leather jacket is the essence of cool. It screams attitude and fierce independence. Its cool factor stems from its origin as the uniform of early 20th century avia­tors and its expo­sure in Hollywood movies of the ‘40s and ‘50s. Soon, ev­eryone wanted a piece of the leather jacket’s action. Even Europeans have appropriated this look to project American rebel­lion and continental cool. When buying a leather jacket you can go for faux, but be advised the real deal is worth the in­vestment. Try the jacket on a few times and stretch the sleeves a little to make sure the material is sup­ple enough to mold, yet define, your up­per body.  We’re not going for the T-Birds and Pink La­dies look, so the best cut is the modern motorcycle jacket — 


Friday, September 23, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 
By ADRIANA PRATT 
Scene Writer 
Guess who’s having the … Worst. Week. Ever. 
You stayed up past 2 a.m. finishing a lousy paper. You got shamelessly dumped over a South Dining Hall din­ner. You flunked a test — which by Notre Dame standards (at least if you’re a Poli Sci major) means you got a B. 
Whatever it is, your week kind of stunk. 
Have no fear, though. There’s someone out there whose week was way worse, and on display for the whole world to see. Think Tiger Woods, Arnold Schwarzenegger, etc. — people who 

By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 
While some of us hit the beach, took classes abroad or had an internship, junior Alex Andre was on his way to be­ing discovered by the world. 
Andre just released his first mixtape entitled “Good Day.” Andre, a big hip-hop fan, got his start when his friends experimented with their computer’s audio. 
“A few of my friends used to record funny rap songs with their computer mic doing stupid stuff,” Andre said. “I went and I wrote a couple of verses and recorded over a beat and they were like ‘Alex is tight, I’m feeling that.’” 
Andre began writing his own songs last winter break, and continued over the summer when he had more time. He recorded with DJ Spydey, a disc jockey from his hometown. His first show was at Acousticafe. 
“It was kind of weird since everyone was doing guitar,” he said. “People’s reactions were interesting.” 
Andre’s rapping ability comes as no surprise, given he plays bass for Voices of Faith and Jazz Band and has had his writing published in “The Juggler.” Eleven years of playing bass and six years of writing poetry have heavily in-make you think, “Wow, at least that wasn’t me.” 
So to celebrate the fact that our lives aren’t as bad as we think they are, or at least not as open to mock­ery, Scene is launching the “Worst. Week. Ever.” column. Subjects will vary from celebrities to politicians to really anyone who has made fools out of themselves. If you want to nominate your roommate, send me an email. 
This week, we begin with the per­son who inspired this column idea long, long ago. A man who told scared viewers he was high off a drug that shared his very own name. A man who famously claimed he shared blood with a tiger. A man who has three ex-wives and a couple of god­desses cursing his existence. A man called Charlie Sheen. 
Just when Sheen’s uncontrollably-blazing star was finally puttering out, the season premiere of “Two and Half Men” aired Monday. Sheen was bolted back into the spotlight, a place that had become a second home to 
fluenced his rapping, giving it a rhyth­mic intensity. 
Andre said he writes lyrics, and matches them to music and beats, as inspiration strikes him. 
“I write so many lyrics in class,” he said with a laugh. “Some of my best stuff I wrote entirely in class. I write lyrics, have ideas and write rhymes, browse instrumentals, shop for beats. I feel like that, boom, put it in. Sync has to line up, it has a feel.” 
Andre said he was surprised how many people texted, called and Face­book messaged him once he became better known. 
“They asked me if I was signed,” he said. 
But Andre said he likes that hip hop is not a job for him right now. 
“I’m not going to stop studying, I’m doing what I love right now,” he said. “If I’m not inspired I can not write for a couple of weeks. But I’m usually pretty inspired.” 
One of the most popular hits on his new mixtape is “Dorm Party Anthem,” an addictive, tongue-in-cheek song about the Notre Dame party experience. 
“One day, Cee Lo Green’s ‘Forget You’ came on the radio, and I started feeling a rap flow over the verses. The title “Dorm Party Anthem” popped into my him during his public meltdown last spring. Instead of reveling in his re-found fame, though, Sheen was forced to watch Ashton Kutcher steal his show — literally. 

Kutcher replaced Sheen on the famous CBS sitcom “Two and a Half Men” after Sheen was fired from the series. This week’s premiere, which began with the death of Sheen’s char­acter and introduced Kutcher as the new billionaire in town, premiered to 27.8 million viewers — the show’s largest audience ever. Sheen not only watched himself die, but also saw a younger, handsomer man replace him with obvious success. 
To add insult to injury, Sheen par­ticipated in Comedy Central’s celebrity roast, which aired the same day as the “Two and a Half Men” premiere. Talk about masochistic. As the gorgeous Kutcher took his stride on CBS, Wil­liam Shatner knocked Sheen’s looks for all they were worth. 
“First off Charlie, I’m 80-years-old. You’re what, 47?” Shatner asked. 
head. At that point the songs write themselves.” 
In discussing Notre Dame, party­ing and hip hop, the classic on-campus entertainment that is Legends’ Hip Hop Night inevitably came up. 
“Hip hop night gets me … I’m active in the black community on campus, so people come to be seen, but that music is just whack. You just can’t dance to it,” he insisted. “When I want to dance, I put on some Kanye or Curtis Mayfield.” 
His all-time favorite music consists of big jazz and funk artists like Miles Davis, Coltrane and Keith Jarrett, as well a broad range of hip hop, covering Outkast, Tupac, Most Def, Public Enemy, A Tribe Called Quest, Common, Nas, Fashawn and Wale. 
One of the challenges Andre has faced is fighting against people’s impression of rap, which he clarifies as different from hip-hop. 
“Most people are exposed to club stuff, and it’s not hip hop. [Hip hop] is not money, sex, weed and fancy cars, it’s real life,” he said. “Humble yourself and talk about real things.  These cats are saying nothing, they’re just trying to make money.” 
Andre also discussed how racial ex­pectations play into his musical endeav­ors. 
“46,” Sheen replied. 
“Then how come we look like we went to high school together?” Shatner asked, digging the nail into Sheen’s ego’s coffin. 
Seth MacFarlane commented on Sheen’s deteriorated career, noting his past success and bleak future. 
“I really think you and Emilio should do a follow up to ‘Men and Work’ and you can call it ‘Men Who Don’t Work Anymore,’” MacFar­lane said. “Honestly Charlie, I never thought I would live to see this night that you would live to see this night.” 
To watch yourself get verbally slaughtered and successfully replaced all in the same day would crush anyone’s spirits. Charlie Sheen, you officially get the “Worst. Week. Ever.” Award. #Winning. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@ nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily of The Observer. 
“I don’t feel a huge need to prove my legitimacy as a white artist in a black genre, but you have to walk a certain line. I have a great amount of respect for hip hop and its history as part of black culture. I’m not trying to appro­priate it as white music. I’m just doing me.” 
Andre hopes to confront important issues in his lyrics and inspire his audi­ence the way hip hop has inspired him. 
“Hip hop has had a profound influ­ence on me. It’s brought me out of dark places, it’s helped me though things, it encompasses all emotions,” he said. “Whenever I do music, I have a respect for what hip hop has done for me and I try to emulate that. Hip hop is honest.” 
Andre is a Stanford junior with an infectious sense of humor and an un­canny sense of rhythm. He prefers hugs over handshakes and strives for better music at Hip Hop Night. He represents Notre Dame’s next ferocious talent, hid­den behind the smile of a tall white boy from Illinois. 
Andre’s work can be found on his YouTube Channel, aandrehiphop, his Facebook page and for download at hotnewhiphop.com 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Thank you, Pac-12 
For once, money saved col­lege football. 
It wasn’t the money given to a player by a booster to convince him to come to the booster’s school. 
It wasn’t the money made by teams and bowl games that keeps a playoff from happening. 
It was the money that comes from a television contract. 
When the Pac-12 would not agree to give the University of Texas a greater share in revenue earned by the newly formed Longhorn Network, it saved college football. 
The Pac-12 decided that in­stead of allowing Texas, Texas Tech, Oklahoma and Okla­homa State to abandon the Big 12, which would have been the largest of the dominoes to fall in conference realignment, the league decided to stay at 12 teams. In doing so, it saved college football. 
If those four teams had joined the Pac­12, forming the 

Eric Prister 
Sports Writer 

AP  
Injured Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo teammates practice Thursday in Irving, Texas.  watches  his  

“But most 
first 16-team college football “super confer-importantly, would fall to the ence,” the ACC, by not allowing wayside as the Big 10 and SEC the move, the newly formed would have Pac-12 saved 64-team league been forced the integrity became just like to follow suit. another profes­
of college 
The remaining sional sport. 
football, and of 
teams in the Players could 
college sports 
Big-12 and the transfer without 
as a whole.” 
Big East would have been forced to leave their conferenc­es to join a “su­per conference,” and college football would have been changed forever. 
That it would have been exciting, there is no doubt — at least at first. The entire landscape of college football would have changed, with new rivalries forming, more exciting games taking place each week and perhaps even a new post-season system. But the consequences of the move would have been far more devastating. 
By not allowing the move, the Pac-12 saved teams from playing almost half of their conference foes only once every seven years. This is likely what the system would have looked like with 16-team conferences. 
By not allowing the move, the Pac-12 saved schools like Villanova, Georgetown and Marquette from losing their prestige in other sports because they have no football program. With the collapse of the Big East, these schools would have had nowhere to turn. 
But most importantly, by not allowing the move, the Pac-12 saved the integrity of college football, and of col­lege sports as a whole. 
Some experts have pre­dicted the consequences of forming four 16-team “super conferences” would be far more devastating than ex­pected. The four conferences and the 64 teams in the conferences would no longer have any use for the other teams in college football or for the NCAA itself. They could secede from the NCAA with few to no repercussions. Would the TV networks stop broadcasting their games, and would anyone honestly stop watching? 
The 64 schools would no longer be under NCAA regulations and could resort to any kind of recruiting practices, including the pay­ment of players. This could 
even become the norm. All that was great and pure about 
punishment to 
a school that 
could offer more 
money. Would 
eligibility rules 
continue to apply, or could anyone who was enrolled in a school play football, even those who have already played for four years? 
So, thank you Pac-12. Thank you for not allowing Texas to take the lion’s share of the profits. And thank you Texas, for being greedy enough to not want to agree to equal revenue sharing among the schools of the Pac-12. 
With one move, you saved college football. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
NFL 

Romo expects to play Monday 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas — With his arms crossed, ball cap on 
— forward — and an elec­tronic stimulation device working to heal his broken rib, Tony Romo could only watch as the other Dal­las Cowboys quarterbacks threw warm-up passes at the start of practice Thurs­day. 
Still, just being on the field was an indication Romo could start Monday night against the Redskins. 
Romo wore a jersey and shorts and moved gingerly. When everyone stretched, he was slow to join them, then didn’t do anything that required bending or mov­ing his arms. At the start of team drills, he stood with the backups, watching with his arms clasped behind his back. Jon Kitna worked with the first team and would start if Romo can’t. 
“I fully expect him to play,” Kitna said. 
Coach Jason Garrett re­peatedly referred to Romo’s status as day-to-day, with constant monitoring of his progress. He called it a good sign that Romo was on the field Thursday and said the quarterback doesn’t necessarily have to practice to be cleared for the game, but would like to see him get in some work. 
“We’re going to get a feel for how he is feeling go­ing into the game and then we’ll make some decisions,” Garrett said. “It’s still very early in the week. It’s a little too early in the week to get into all those hypo­thetical situa­tions.” 
Coaches and and doing what needs to do to get back out there.” 
This was Dallas’ first prac­tice since Romo overcame the broken rib and a tear in his lung to pull out a come­back victory in overtime against San Francisco on Sunday. He’s been praised for his toughness and lead­ership just a week after be­ing scorned for bad plays and poor decisions that led to a loss in the opener, and he also earned the NFC of­fensive player of the week award. 
“The legend has began,” linebacker Bradie James said. “Punctured spleen, kid­ney, whatever it is, he’s go­ing to be out 

te a m m a te s said Romo was moving around better than they’d e x p ec t ed .  “The legend has began. Punctured spleen, kidney, whatever it is, he’s going to be out there.”  there.” The Cow­boys came out of the 49ers game with so many injuries  
Many of them pointed to the  Bradie James  to ers  key that  play-Gar- 
fact  he  was  Cowboys linebacker  rett  gave  the  
able to return  entire  squad  
to  Sunday’s  an  extra  day  
game with the  off Wednesday.  
rib  injury  —  They could af­ 

and with a torn lung that ford it because they have an had yet to be diagnosed. extra day before the next 
As scary as that sounds, game, which also is at home. it was a small enough tear The status of many other that he should be fully re-key players remains in flux. covered long before kickoff. Six others didn’t practice, in­
“He has been upbeat, he cluding running back Felix has been positive, he has Jones (shoulder) and receiv­been going through it like ers Dez Bryant (thigh) and a regular work week,” tight Miles Austin (hamstring). end Jason Witten said. “He Austin aggravated an inju­is very active in meetings ry that had him limping much of last week. He managed to score a career-best three touchdowns despite his pain, but now is likely to miss the next two games, plus have the bye to get healthy. 
Bryant was a game-time decision. The fact he’s still not on the field seems like something else could be wrong, but Garrett said that’s not the case.” 
“The degree of the injury is really the issue,” Garrett said. “It really swelled up on him soon after (the opener). He didn’t have very much flexibility at all, all through­out last week. We were all hopeful and optimistic but it’s just been a progression. I think it’s gotten better as the days have gone by.” 
The offensive line remains a carousel, too. Starters Phil Costa and Derrick Dockery were out with knee inju­ries. Dockery moved into the lineup last week because Bill Nagy (knee) was hurt, but Nagy was back Thursday. 
A patched-together line isn’t exactly the best way to protect Romo, should he come back, but the Cowboys will have no choice. 
There was some good news: cornerback Terence Newman (groin) practiced for the first time since early August. 
“It’s great to have a Pro Bowl corner, a mainstay like Terence, an experienced guy who knows how to get pre­pared and can go out and challenge a team’s top re­ceiver,” safety Abe Elam said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
ATTN: ND Groups and Organizations. Fundraising opportunity. Easy money starting now. Email carrier539@gmail.com 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more 
information, visit ND’s website at: 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
A long, long time ago... 
I can still remember How that music used to make me smile. And I knew if I had my chance That I could make those people dance 
And, maybe, they’d be happy for 
a while. 
But February made me shiver With every paper I’d deliver. Bad news on the doorstep; I couldn’t take one more step. I can’t remember if I cried When I read about his widowed 

bride, 

But something touched me deep inside The day the music died. 
So bye-bye, Miss Aerican pie. Drove my chevy to the levee, 
But the levee was dry. And them good old boys were drinkin’ whiskey and rye Singin’ “This’ll be the day that I die. “This’ll be the day that I die.” 
Did you write the book of love, 
And do you have faith in God above If the Bible tells you so? 
Do you believe in rock ’n roll, Can music save your mortal soul, 
And can you teach me how to dance real slow? 
Well, I know that you’re in love 
with him `cause I saw you dancin’ in the gym. You both kicked off your shoes. 
Man, I dig those rhythm and blues. 
I was a lonely teenage broncin’ buck With a pink carnation and a pickup 
truck, 
But I knew I was out of luck 
The day the music died. 

the focus of the matchup. The Phoxes (1-0) are hoping 
Ducks 
their opening-week success, a 
continued from page 14 
Howard came at quarterback as freshman Lauren Gable and junior Katharine Mack rotated and threw for two touchdowns apiece. Gassner also said she was impressed with new defen­sive adjustments, which helped the defensive unit create four turnovers in the last game. 
Badin (0-1) looks to bounce back from a 28-0 loss to Cavanaugh 40-0 victory over Breen-Phil­lips, carries over into their game with the Purple Weasels (0-1). 
In the preseason, sopho­more Sam Nordlund had been penciled in to be the starting quarterback. Nordlund wasn’t expecting to make it to the Breen-Phillips game, however, so the team prepared to move ahead with sophomore Mer­edith Angell under center. Nor­dlund eventu­ally made it to the game, but 
in its season opener. Despite the loss, Badin  “We moved the ball well in our first game, but had trouble in the red zone.”  Angell took most of the snaps. Head­ing into their  
senior  quar­ matchup with  
terback and captain Sylvia Banda was confident in  Sylvia Banda Badin senior captain  the Purple Weasels, the Phoxes’ start­ing role is still  
the  team’s  up for grabs.  
ability  to  put  “We’ll  be  
points on the  switching  be- 
board.  tween  two  

“We moved the ball well in quarterbacks,” senior captain our first game, but had trouble Liz Pawlak said. “[It] should be in the red zone” Banda said. interesting to watch to see who 
The Bullfrogs plan to attack gets the majority of the plays.” Howard’s defense with a strong Pasquerilla West lost to Ca-run game and a unique two-vanaugh on Tuesday night, quarterback system that fea-plagued by a few big penalties. tures Banda and fellow senior The Purple Weasels chalked up Carli Fernandez. the infractions to first-game 
“Carli and I really enjoy the jitters, and feel they are still a system because it allows us to good team. display our different strengths,” “We still have a really strong Banda said.  “We think that it chance to get to the champi­provides a surprise element to onship,” senior captain Alison the game.” Lindeen said. “We just need to 
This match up between South see more game experience.” Quad neighbors will take place The team is looking for lead-at 7p.m. Sunday at LaBar Fields. ership at quarterback, where 
freshman Lauren Vidal made Contact Brian Hartnett at her debut under center against bhartnet@nd.edu the Chaos. 
“[Vidal] has a really good arm, is really good at running, Pasquerilla West vs. Pangborn and once she gets a little more 
experience she’ll be a huge fac-By MIKE MONACO tor in our offense,” Lindeen Sports Writer said. 
With a game under her belt, 
With one game in the books Vidal will be directing a slightly for each squad, Pasquerilla different offense. West and Pangborn square off “We’re going to try and look Sunday with quarterbacks at to play a little more option on offense and create some new McGlinn vs. Walsh experience on the field we are running strategies,” Lindeen confident that we will be able to said. By NICK BOYLE dominate once again.” 


The Phoxes and Purple Wea-Sports Writer Even with a young squad, sels will battle at 6 p.m. at La-Howard is showing great Bar Fields on Sunday. Coming off tough losses, Mc-strength in its two new quar-Glinn and Walsh will each look terbacks freshman Lauren Ga-Contact Mike Monaco at to right the ship when they ble and junior Katharine Mack. jmonaco@nd.edu square off Monday night. “Both Gable and Mack have In their last games, McGlinn been playing strong and have (1-1) lost to Welsh Family, while brought our offense to a new Pasquerilla East vs. Lyons Walsh (0-1) level,” Gas-lost a close sner said. By JAMES SOUTHARD contest to “Com bi ned Sports Writer Ryan by only a with our de­touchdown. fense’s abil-Lyons and Pasquerilla East “A loss in “Both Gable and Mack ity to pressure meet this Monday, each hoping our first game have been playing the quarter-to avoid a 0-2 start. Lyons (0-1) wasn’t what strong and have brought back we are is looking to bounce back from we were look-our offense to a new becoming a a 34-8 loss to Ryan in which the ing for or more solid 
level. Combined with 

defense surrendered two rush-expecting,” team.” 
our defense’s ability to 

ing touchdowns and three pass-Walsh junior Pasquerilla 
pressure the quarterback, 

ing touchdowns. captain Lindy West (0-1) has 
we are becoming a 

Lyons led early in the game, Navarre said. also been fo­
more solid team.” 

but was overwhelmed by Ryan’s “But on the cusing on its playmakers late. The primary other hand it offense after problem for the team was tack-was good to Jenny Gassner losing 12-0 to ling, sophomore captain Chris-get out there Howard Cavanaugh on tina Bramanti said. and get our Tuesday. Kept 
senior captain 

“Our defense was where it  new  players  out of the red  
needed to be,” Bramanti said.  some valuable  zone  for  the  
“The real issue was getting our  experience.”  entirety  of  
opponent’s flags.”  The  Wild  the game and  
Bramanti  also  intends  to  Women  will  ridden  with  
build on her team’s offensive  try  and  use  penalties, the  
accomplishments.  this  newly gained experience  Purple  Weasels  are  looking  
“We had some really good  to improve on both sides of the  to clean up their game before  
long plays,” she said. “We just  ball Monday night.  Tuesday’s showdown.  
need to familiarize ourselves  “I think the disappointment  “We just had some first-game  
with more plays, and we should  after our loss has given the  kinks and jitters that we need- 
be good.”  team a new, heightened focus,”  ed to work out,” senior captain  
Meanwhile, Pasquerilla East  Navarre  said.  “Everyone  on  Alison Lindeen said.  
(0-1)  will  the team knows  Howard and Pasquerilla West  
a t t em p t  where they need  meet at 7 p.m. on Tuesday at  
to  emerge  to get better, and  Riehle Fields.  
v ic t or iou s  we’ve  already  
after  be- seen  improve- Contact Stephanie Banta at  
ing shut out by Welsh Family on S u n d a y . Pasquerilla  “We definitely want to control the ball and move up the field with short passes.”  ment during practice. I think we will come out with a lot of con­fidence against  sbanta01@saintmarys.edu Pangborn vs. Badin  
East’s  de- McGlinn.”  By BRENDAN BELL  
fense start- Kristen Mannion  On  the  other  Sports Writer  
ed the game strongly, al­lowing no  Pasquerilla East senior captain  side of the ball, McGlinn will look to bounce  Two talented teams will col­lide Tuesday night, as Badin  
points  un­ back  from  an  and Pangborn square off look­ 
til the end  u p -a n d -d o w n  ing for an important win.  
of the first  week where they  The Phoxes (1-0) look to con- 
half,  but  defeated  Lewis  tinue  their  dominance  from  
Welsh Fam­ by a two-touch­ their first game, which they  
ily’s passing attack proved too  down score, but were also on  won 40-0. Senior captain Liz  
strong to overcome.  the wrong side of a lopsided  Pawlak talked about the team’s  
“Our  defense  worked  hard,  Welsh Family victory.  success and its preparation for  
and our offense really stepped  “We had a really strong first  the upcoming matchup against  
it up at the end of the game,”  game [where] the team played  Badin.  
Pyros senior captain Kristen  well as a whole,” junior quar­ “We had a great game Sun- 
Mannion  said.  “We  definitely  terback  Lauren  Miller  said.  day,” Pawlak said. “We gained  
have good momentum moving  “Unfortunately  the  game  200 yards of offense. We just  
into this next week.”  against Welsh Fam was a bit of  want to continue what we were  
Mannion said the focus for  a reality check for us. We came  doing.”  
Pasquerilla East this week in  out slow and they made us pay  Pawlak  mentioned  a  few  
practice is to improve the of- for our mistakes.”  key players, such as freshman  
fensive tempo. She said the Shamrocks hope  Anna  McNamara,  who  had  
 “We definitely want to con- they can pick up the pace on  a  huge  game  defensively  last  
trol the ball and move up the  Monday.  week with a couple intercep­ 
field with short passes,” she  “We need to execute better  tions, and junior quarterback  
said.   from the start of the game, and  Meredith Angell, who looks to  
Lyons and Pasquerilla East  make sure we capitalize on all  improve on last week’s perfor­ 
meet at 9 p.m. on Monday at  our opportunities.” Miller said.  mance.  
Riehle Fields to fight for that  McGlinn and Walsh face off  Badin (0-1) is hoping to im­ 
elusive first victory.  under the lights 9 p.m. Monday  prove on its performance from  
night at Riehle Fields.  last week when they lost by  
Contact James Southard at  a few touchdowns. The Bull­ 
jsouthar@nd.edu  Contact Nick Boyle at  frogs are optimistic despite last  
nboyle1@nd.edu  week’s performance.  
“Last week we had success  
moving the ball down the field,  
Howard vs. Pasquerilla West  but struggled in the red zone,”  
senior quarterback and captain  
By STEPHANIE BANTA  Sylvia Banda said.  “We’ve been  
Sports Writer  working this week  on  putting  
everything together and I think  
Howard is back on track and  we’ll do better. We have a lot of  
ready to bring the heat when it  potential as a team.”  
takes on Pasquerilla West next  Along with their improved  
Tuesday.  team chemistry, the Bullfrogs  
The Ducks (1-1) snagged their  have a strong core of receivers  
first victory of the season in an  to whom they will look to im­ 
offensive-driven game against  prove their offense against the  
Breen-Phillips last Tuesday and  Pangborn defense.  
are looking to do it again.  The sparks will fly Tuesday  
“We’ve been focusing on the  nightwhen Pangborn and Ba- 
teams unity out on the field and  din collide at 7 p.m. at Riehle  
filling in any holes that we had  Fields.  
in our first few games,” senior  
captain Jenny Gassner said.  Contact Brendan Bell at  
“Now that we have gained more  bbell2@nd.edu  



WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Breen-Phillips hopes to bounce back against Farley 
Pyros and Wild Women to try for their first win; Welsh Family attempts to stay undefeated against Lyons 
By PETER STEINER Sports Writer game, but will improve with an-Lewis vs. Welsh Family Moreno has racked up an im-Sports Writer other week of practice. pressive 428 passing yards thus Pasquerilla East and Walsh “Our defense was there where By STEPHANIE BANTA far and shows no signs of stop­
Breen-Phillips and Farley both look for a fresh start this we needed to be a lot of the Sports Writer ping. will face off in a game with weekend after rough opening time, but they just couldn’t pull “Moreno has been outstand­bragging rights on the line for contests. The Pyros (0-1), who the flag and we couldn’t get her After falling to McGlinn last ing on the field,” Seasly said. the rest of the season. experienced offensive struggles down,” Bramanti said. “We’ll Sunday, Lewis is ready for re-“She has definitely become the 
Breen-Phillips (0-2) hopes to Sunday night, are ready to take definitely be working on some demption. backbone of our offense.” salvage its season after losses on the Wild Women (0-1). flag-pulling drills this week in “Last week was rough,” se-Walsh Family squares off to Pangborn and Howard last “This week we have been practice.” nior captain Libby Redline against Lewis on Sunday at 5 week, while Farley (1-0) hopes working a lot on offense and Bramanti said the offense, un-said. “ But, now that we have p.m. at the LaBar Fields. to remain undefeated. controlling the ball on the field,” der the guidance of senior quar-one game under our belt I feel 
The Babes lost to Howard senior captain Kristin Mannion terback Kat Rodriguez, will also that we are much more confi-Contact Stephanie Banta at 28-7 on Tuesday, but had a said. “We want to make sure benefit from more practice time. dent going into this weekend.” sbanta01@saintmarys.edu small breakthrough when they that we can set the tempo in the “There was a lot of confusion With the loss the Chicks (0­scored their first touchdown in game by getting up the field and as to where people needed to be 1) are looking to improve their two years. Breen-Phillips hopes converting that movement into on plays,” Bramanti said. “We defense and take advantage of Howard vs. Badin this touchdown will spark its touchdowns.” just need to familiarize our-the chemistry between junior offensive output, but the Babes Walsh had a strong showing selves more with the plays and quarterback Connaught Blood By BRIAN HARTNETT also want to hold teams to few-against Ryan and is looking to then we’ll be a lot better.” and sophomore receiver Col-Sports Writer er points. move forward. Junior captain After a strong 24-14 win over leen Haller. 
“We worked out some kinks Kat Leach said the Wild Women Lewis to start the season, McG-“Connaught is a great team After a convincing 28-7 vic­against Howard, but we are took the loss as a learning ex-linn (1-1) suffered a disappoint-player and leader [off] the tory over Breen-Phillips on still looking to get better on perience. ing 27-8 defeat to Welsh Family field,” Redline said. “When she Tuesday, Howard looks to have defense,” senior captain Maria “We figured out what we Monday night. Senior captain and Haller connect on the field rediscovered the strong offense Lynch said. were doing wrong, what we and quarterback Lauren Miller they are unstoppable.” and stifling defense that have 
Lynch also said the Babes want to do and how to do it,” thinks the Shamrocks can learn With Blood and Haller lead-made it traditionally success-will need to get comfortable Leach said. “We’re looking to from both games. ing the offense, Lewis is look-ful. However, the Ducks (1-1) with their new quarterback, as be a more diverse and unpre-“We didn’t play very well Mon-ing to dominate Sunday’s game will face tough competition in their starting quarterback was dictable team. We are work-day night,” Miller said. ”With all against Welsh Family. a Badin team very eager for its injured in Tuesday’s game. ing to make all of our options the good things from Sunday, “We are optimistic,” Redline first win. 
Farley, meanwhile, looks to threats rather than focusing on there are also a lot of lessons to said. “The season has only just After being shut out in their keep its momentum going after only one or two people.” learn from Monday night’s expe-begun.” season opener, the Ducks of-a satisfying win against How-The Pyros will look to soph-rience.” Coming off a strong win over fense looked re-energized Tues­ard. Farley’s defense led the omore running back Kiah Miller and freshman running McGlinn (1-1) on Monday, the day night, scoring four touch-way last Sunday in a shutout Schaefbauer and junior safety back Emma Collis will lead the Whirlwind (2-0) are looking to downs. of the defending champions. Anna Perino to lead them to McGlinn offense hoping for a continue their winning streak “We had a really good prac-Senior captain Analise Althoff victory Sunday evening. performance more like Sun-come Sunday. tice on Monday and made some said the Finest intend to keep Pasquerilla East and Walsh day’s. “We are feeling confident in key variations in our lineup,” pressure up on defense but also square off Sunday at 5 p.m. at Lyons and McGlinn will both both our offense and defense,” senior receiver and captain want to be more consistent on LaBar Fields. be looking to bounce back Sun-senior captain Charlotte Seasly Jenny Gassner said. “As a re-offense. day evening as they go head-said. “So far we have had only sult, we were able to play our 
“We had some big plays and Contact Ally Darragh at to-head at 6 p.m. at the LaBar one touchdown against us and style of football.” then we had some times when adarra01@saintmarys.edu Fields. we want to keep it that way.” Some of the key changes for we slowed up a little bit,”Althoff Having a powerhouse defense said. “We’ll just try to keep Contact Scott Frano at is not Welsh Family’s only as-pushing it down the field.” McGlinn vs. Lyons sfrano@nd.edu set. Junior quarterback Vicky see DUCKS/page 13 
Farley is hoping increased of­fensive production along with By SCOTT FRANO stout defense will translate into Sports Writer victory. 
The showdown between McGlinn and Lyons will meet Breen-Phillips and Farley will Sunday in a matchup of teams take place at 7 p.m. at LaBar coming off tough losses. Fields on Sunday. Lyons (0-1) lost 34-8 to Ryan 
in its first game. The Lions’ Contact Peter Steiner at defense gave up 105 yards psteiner@nd.edu and two touchdowns to senior running back Brianna Curtis. Sophomore captain Christina Pasquerilla East vs. Walsh Bramanti, a slot receiver, said her inexperienced defense had By ALLY DARRAGH trouble pulling flags in the first 
Sophomore quarterback Kev-
Sunday 
in Fink leads the Big Red offen­sive attack. continued from page 15 Although the Big Red are feeling pretty big, the Knights Dillon vs. Keenan (1-0) are also ready to line up 
and battle it out. By MEGHAN RODER Keenan took control Sunday Sports Writer with a striking 16-6 win over 
Keough and is ready to do the 
With both teams coming off same this week. an opening win, Dillon and “We have tightened up and Keenan are both feeling ready are starting to play well togeth­to battle it out in their upcom-er,” senior captain Erik Black­ing game Sunday. Heading into wood said. “We have been pre­the game, confidence is not an paring for a few weeks and we issue for either team. know what we can do. We take 
The Big Red (1-0) took charge it one week at a time, and every on the field last Sunday by win-time looking forward to getting ning 24-0 over O’Neill. Even back out on the field.” though a score like that could Coming off a big game against send spirits high, junior cap-Keough, the Knights will look tain Will Salvi is focused on to junior quarterback Andrew keeping the same mentality McDonough to lead the offense. and reeling in another win this It will be a contest between week. Big Red’s rock-hard defense 
“If we improve on our pass-and the Knights’ operative of­ing, make smarter plays and fense when Dillon and Keenan keep pushing it at the defensive square off at 3 p.m. Sunday at line, then we’re solid,” Salvi Riehle Fields. said. “We take each game at a time and we are ready to rum-Contact Meghan Roder at ble.” mroder01@saintmarys.edu 


MEN’S INTERHALL 

Defending champion Sorin to take on Zahmbies 
Weekend is full of rivalries as Knott takes on Seigfried; Carroll and Fisher battle for the Old Crooked Stick 
By BRIAN HARTNETT make some plays down the go against,” Kwak said. “We gles, Alumni and Duncan both Carroll hopes to ride the Sports Writer field,” Costello said. proved that we have improved look to continue their defen-early momentum from their To achieve offensive success, since last year.” sive dominance and increase win against St. Edward’s last 
With a demonstrative victory the Zahmbies will look to ju-The Juggerknotts’ know they their offensive production week. Carroll capitalized on in its first game, Sorin looked nior quarterback Alex Bowman have talent and potential, and when they face each other strong offensive execution poised to emulate the success of and senior running back Colin looks to expand and build upon this week. and a solid defense. last year’s championship team. Casey. its foundation this season. Kwak Alumni (1-0) hopes to build “We came in with a game The Otters (1-0) will be up for On defense, Zahm features believes that the their style of upon last Sunday’s 7-0 shut-plan on offense and stuck with a tough game Sunday, though, junior linebacker and defensive play will reflect major changes. out against Morrissey. it and it worked out,” junior as they face a well-rested Zahm coordinator Greg Allare, who “This year we are looking to “Our defense played ex-captain Keith Marrero said. team looking to start its season looks to make the plays and develop a lock down defense tremely well,” senior running “Then we just had a well-ex­with a win. calls necessary to stop the Ot-that can compete with any style back and captain Dan Dans-ecuted defense.” 
Sorin opened its season last ters. of offense and a more dynamic dill said. “They really didn’t The team does hope to im-Sunday with a strong 24-8 win Zahm kicks off its season offense that can keep opponents have a chance to score. The prove on fixing a few mental over Fisher. The Otters dis-against defending champion on their toes,” Kwak said. defense was lights out.” mistakes and penalties. The played a combination of high-Sorin at 1 p.m. Sunday at Riehle Siegfried (0-0) had a bye last The Dawgs hope to comple-Vermin want to add new plays powered offense and aggressive Fields. week. The Ramblers are coming ment this with a reinvigorated into both their offensive and defense, holding Fisher to four off a successful 2010 campaign offense. Their starting quar-defensive playbooks. first downs the entire game. Contact Brian Hartnett at that ended in disappointment terback, sophomore Will Cro-“We want to not have too 
Despite the positive result, bhartnet@nd.edu when they fell in the semifinals. nin, did not play last week due many mental mistakes,” Mar-Sorin junior quarterback and Last season’s loss has given to a rolled ankle. This week rero said. “We want to throw captain Ted Spinelli believes the team more reason to have a he is questionable based on in new wrinkles and sharpen there is room for improvement. Seigfried vs. Knott stronger season. his performance at practice. up our offense.” 
“I think that the first game “We are hungry to get back “If Will plays this week, look Fisher and Carroll play at was an inaccurate representa-By ANDREW CARDOZA to the stadium, like we did two for him to have a big impact Riehle Fields at 2 p.m. Sunday. tion of the talent on this team,” Sports Writer years prior to that loss,” Sieg-on the game,” Dansdill said. Spinelli said. “If we play a com-fried senior captain John Aver-With a healthy offense, the Contact Ernst Cleofe at plete game this week, we can One of the best interhall ri-sa said. Dawgs hope to put everything ecleofe@nd.edu score even more points.” valries will take place again For the Ramblers and the together and boost their of-
Spinelli will be important to when Siegfried and Knott go Juggerknotts, rivalry runs hot. fense against Duncan. the success of the offense, as he head-to-head Sunday, as each “We will have to play hard to “We need to get the little Stanford vs. Keough ran for a touchdown last week team looks to form some sepa-beat a team as big, strong and things right,” Dansdill said. and threw a long touchdown ration in the league standings. fast as Knott,” Aversa said. “We’re looking forward to it.” By JONATHAN WARREN pass to junior receiver Ryan Knott (1-0) opened its season Siegfried and Knott square Duncan (0-1), on the other Sports Writer Robinson. with a low-scoring win against off at 1 p.m. at Riehle Fields hand, is coming off a tough 
Zahm (0-0) comes off a 2010 Duncan. The lone score of the with bragging rights on the loss at the hands of Knott, but Stanford will open its sea-season in which it failed to game was a touchdown pass line. their defense also played well. son this Sunday against a score in its first three games, from junior quarterback Jake “The defense looks great,” reeling Keough team that is but broke through with an up-Coleman to sophomore receiver Contact Andrew Cardoza at junior right tackle and cap-looking for redemption. set against St. Edward’s in its Joe McGillicuddy. acardoza@nd.edu tain Neil Eveld said. “We just The Kangaroos (0-1) pro-final game. Knott took away many posi-gave up one big pass play that duced a solid defensive per-
Senior center and captain tives from the game, but junior ended up being a touchdown.” formance in a loss to Keenan Ryan Costello is confident in the captain Brian Kwak knows his Alumni vs. Duncan The Highlanders are tight-17-6 last week. team’s game plan as it heads offense will need to step it up ening up their pass coverage “Our defense is going to into the first game. for this week’s contest. By ISAAC LORTON after scouting a pass-favoring continue to be hard hitting 
“We plan to utilize the run “Last week, our defense Sports Writer Dawgs offense. and tough,” junior Keough heavily early on in the game showed real potential to match “We have seen that Alumni captain and linebacker Rob and have our quarterback up well against anyone we Coming off offensive strug-passes a lot, so our defense Toole said. 
has been working hard on The Kangaroos, however, that,” Eveld said. struggled to gain consistency 
Offensively, the Highlanders on offense, committing three come off a disappointing week turnovers and five penalties. when a last-minute touch-Keough hopes the momentum down was called back due they gained at the end of last to holding. Duncan expects game with a 56-yard touch-sophomore quarterback Josh down drive will carry over to Whelan to have a big game Sunday. and get the offense going. “We have had some pretty 
“The offense is doing their tough games in the past, and thing, as we hope to improve we are expecting for this one on last week,” Eveld said. to be even more vicious,” Toole 
Alumni and Duncan pit said. “[But] we are definitely their strong defenses against expecting a victory Sunday.” each other at Riehle Fields at Stanford comes into the 2 p.m. Sunday. game hoping to improve upon 
its 3-1 finish last year. Contact Isaac Lorton at “I think we’ll be better this ilorton@nd.edu year and be strong heading 
into the playoffs,” junior cap­tain Paul Babiak said. “We’ve Carroll vs. Fisher always been at the top of our 
division, and I think we’ll be By ERNST CLEOFE back there by the end of the Sports Writer season.” 
Babiak said his team has 
Fisher and Carroll will rallied around new offensive meet Sunday when the Green coordinator junior Matthew Wave look to rebound from an Tansey and will be ready to opening loss while the Vermin take on the Kangaroos. hope to continue their win-“Keough has always played ning ways. us close, but we’re pretty pre-
Fisher (0-1) heads into the pared for them,” Babiak said. game coming off a loss to So-“We’re really excited and rin. Fisher started the game can’t wait to hit the field Sun-in a slump, giving up two day.” quick touchdowns and com-The Griffins will look for mitting early miscues on the their defensive line to be a way to a 24-8 defeat. strength Sunday. Junior Jim 
Fisher looks to improve Waclawik and senior Kyle their offensive execution Obendorf, proven performers against Carroll (1-0). for Stanford, will be impor­
“We want to make sure to tant pieces on the line. execute and move the ball Stanford and Keough will better on offense, while avoid-face off Sunday at 3 p.m at ing turnovers,” junior captain Riehle Fields. Matt Hart said. 
The Green Wave also want Contact Jonathan Warren at to solidify their defense after jwarren3@nd.edu giving up three touchdowns last week. see SUNDAY/page 14 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Hope provides stiff challenge for Belles 


By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
The Belles will face their big­gest challenge of the season thus far when they travel to take on No. 13 Hope this Friday. 
The Flying Dutch (10-2, 4-0 MIAA) enter the match with an unblemished conference record. Saint Mary’s (3-6, 2-3 MIAA) is looking to carry its momentum and continue a high level of play from earlier this week, when the team defeated Trine on the road. 
Belles coach Toni Kuschel knows what sort of threat the Flying Dutch pose. 
“They are a very tough, fast-paced team,” she said. “We will need to play consistent volley­ball. We will need to come up with big plays when they are needed.” 
The Belles, set on stringing to­gether their first set of wins this season, are determined to con­tinue the high quality of their recent play. 
“We have been playing really well defensively,” Kuschel said. 
The Belles have looked to a number of players for consistent performance this year, includ­ing some of a large freshman class. Freshman outside hitter 
Bayliss 
continued from page 20 
a little bit and add to their game.” 
The rest of the Irish squad will stay on campus and com­pete in the Tom Fallon Invi­tational at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
“The younger guys are staying back and playing in the Tom Fallon Invitational which is going to be a format where if you win and you ad­vance, you continue to play players who are doing exact­ly what you’re doing,” Bayliss said. “So everyone will sort of get a read on where they are. 
“We know the teams and the players so it will be a good gauge for us to be able to evaluate the guys we have.” 
Both the Napa Valley USTA/ ITA Invitational and the Tom Fallon Invitational begin Fri­day and conclude Sunday. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
Kati Schneider and junior out­side hitter Stephanie Bodien have been playing particularly well. 
“Schneider has been play­ing very well for us this year, averaging three kills per set,” Kuschel said. “Bodien has been passing very well and has come up with some big plays at crucial points in the set. She has also been a great vocal leader out on the court for us as well.” 
It is going to take more than consistent play for Saint Mary’s to be able to defeat their ranked opponent, though. Kuschel said her team must mentally prepare for the challenge as well. 
“It always feels good coming off a win, but this match will be a test of how mentally tough we can be as a team,” she said. 
The Flying Dutch roster is loaded with youth, with only two seniors on the squad. However, lack of age does not indicate a lack of talent, as freshman out­side hitter Jenna Grasmeyer was named the MIAA’s first player of the week 
Saint Mary’s takes the court in search of its second consecutive win at 7 p.m. Friday at Hope. 
 Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Dan Beebe leaves Big 12 
Associated Press 

There was talk of solidarity, plans for stability, expressions of encouragement. 
And then there was a step to­ward forced confinement from the Big 12 as it sought to prevent any more departures follow­ing a topsy-turvy year in which it lost Nebraska and Colora­do and learned it will lose Texas A&M soon enough. 
The Big 12 dumped embattled Commissioner Dan Beebe on Thursday and announced a plan to bind nine member schools to­gether by holding a huge finan­cial hammer— their TV rights for the next six years—over their heads. The plan is far from a done deal, since it must be approved by some if not all the schools’ governing bodies. 
But if it sticks, any school that considers leaving the Big 12 would have to leave their TV rights—and millions of dol­lars—behind in a blow much more punishing than a typical exit fee.
 “These are very strong hand­cuffs,” Oklahoma President David Boren said after Big 12 university leaders met for more than an hour by telephone. “The grant of rights really does bind the conference together and it shows that we fully intend to stay together. 
Handcuffs. That’s what it has come to in a fractured league that seemed ready to split apart on Monday. 
And there are still signs the Big 12 has a lot of healing to do. 
Oklahoma, which was trying to leave the Big 12 for the Pac­12 just a few days ago, and Mis­souri, which wanted to leave for the Big Ten in 2010, even staged competing news conferences to start spreading the new mes­sage of goodwill and stability in the Big 12. 
Texas officials, often por­trayed as the Big 12 bullies, chose not to say anything at all. Still not addressed was whether the Big 12 wants to do something about Texas’ lucrative Longhorn Network agreement with ESPN that casts an ominous shadow over the rest of the league. 
Beebe is gone after five up-and-down years that included securing a 13-year, $1.2 bil­lion contract with Fox Sports but sharp criticism for failing to keep Nebraska (Big Ten) and Colorado (Pac-12) from leaving over the summer. Texas A&M plans to leave by July for the Southeastern Conference. 
Former Big Eight Commis­sioner Chuck Neinas will serve as interim commissioner. Boren said Neinas will not be a can­didate to take the job perma­nently. 
Revenue sharing and a change of leadership were con­sidered by some schools, notably Oklahoma, as the top issues to address to save the league in the latest round of conference re­alignment. 
The Big 12 splits revenue from its Fox Sports contract evenly, but only half of the money from its top-tier deal with ABC goes into equal shares. The rest is weighted toward the programs that play on the network more frequently. 
Boren said all nine remain­ing schools—all those except for Texas A&M— “agreed” to give a six-year grant of their first- and second-tier television rights to the Big 12. 
The six-year term runs past the next negotiating period for the top-tier contract, currently with ABC/ESPN, in a bid to keep the nine schools together for the next contract. 
“If you wanted to talk about one important action that really does demonstrate that this con­ference is going to be stable, that we’re not going to have year-to­year dramas like we have had, I think that grant of rights is a very essential item,” Boren said. 


Friday, September 23, 2011  The Observer u SPORTS  ndsmcobserver.com | page 17  
SMC CROSS COUNTRY  SMC SOCCER  
SMC heads to MIAA Jamboree  Alma hands SMC  

By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
After getting their feet wet at the highly competitive Calvin Invitational last weekend, the Belles dive headfirst into con­ference action Saturday as they travel to Angola, Ind., for the MIAA Jamboree. 
The Invitational boasted a 16-team field, with four MIAA schools. At the Jamboree, hosted by Trine, all nine con­ference members will be pres­ent. Though Calvin has taken the conference title the last six years, Belles coach Jackie Bauters said the Jamboree will also feature good competition from other schools. 
“Hope and Calvin are back­and-forth in the rankings both nationally and regionally,” she said. “It’s a competitive situa­tion there. Also, Albion’s wom­en’s team is pretty solid this year, and Alma and Adrian have some good lead runners that help them score well. It should be a really interesting day.” 
Saint Mary’s possesses a solid lead runner in senior captain Joanne Almond. Almond posted a personal best by more than 40 seconds at the Calvin Invitation­al, and clocked the Belles’ first sub-19 minute five-kilometer time since 2007. 
“She’s a well-rounded leader,” Bauters said. “Her teammates can watch her actions and see her hard work, but she’s also a real rah-rah leader, and she’s the first person to acknowledge another person’s accomplish­ment.” 
Due to a few non-standard races to open the season, the Belles have not yet raced a six-kilometer race, the distance of Saturday’s course. Bauters said her team is excited to compete this weekend and hopes to learn more about its strengths and weaknesses. 
“We are definitely ready to perform well this weekend,” she said. “It will be good for us to see where we are and where 
tough shutout loss 
we need to go in another 
month. We had our first real 5k last weekend so we’re still figuring ourselves out.” 
On their way toward under­standing their abilities Sat­urday, the Belles will have to navigate an unfamiliar course. According to Bauters, a home course can aid the host school as they know the location of certain difficult stretches. 
“It makes a big difference,” Bauters said. “None of this team has seen the course we’re running this weekend. It’s a little hilly, so knowing it well enough to know where to push is helpful. We won’t have that advantage this weekend, but we’ll overcome it.” 
The women’s race at the MIAA Jamboree begins at 
10:30 a.m. Saturday. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
A lone goal in the 54th minute proved to make the difference in Alma College’s 1-0 win at Saint Mary’s on Thursday evening. 
Alma (7-1, 3-1), the de­fending MIAA conference champions, faced few scor­ing threats and limited Saint Mary’s (5-2, 1-2) to just one shot on goal for the entire match. 
The Belles had their best scoring opportunity of the contest in the 51st minute, while the game was still in a scoreless draw. Sophomore midfielder Kerry Puckett struck the Belles’ lone shot on goal, but it was turned away. 
Just over a minute later, sophomore midfielder Mollie Valencia lofted a shot over the goalkeeper, but it was denied by the crossbar. 


Saint Mary’s also had a chance to tie the game in the final minutes, but senior de­fender Keely Noonan’s corner kick sailed wide of the net. 
The Scots’ winning and only goal came when freshman for­ward Mackenzie Smith took advantage of a failed Belles’ attempt to clear the ball out of the defensive zone. After Saint Mary’s kicked the ball around, it bounced Smith’s way and she struck the open shot through the back of the net. 
Despite being outshot 19-6, including 8-1 in shots on goal, the Belles managed to keep the game competitive. Freshman goalkeeper Chanler Rosen­baum made six saves during the game, including four in the scoreless first half. 
The Belles, however, were unable to counter the Scots’ attempts with any shots on goal or corner kicks, leading to a quiet first half. 
Despite the loss, Belles’ coach Michael Joyce was im­pressed by his team’s effort against the defending MIAA champs. 
“While [Alma] had more of the play and had more shots, we’d played well enough to give ourselves a shot at a win,” Joyce said. “We’ll move for­ward knowing we can play with anyone in the confer­ence.” 
The Belles will look to quick­ly rebound from their loss in a road match against MIAA op­ponent Albion. 
Albion may pose less of a challenge than Alma, as it will enter the game at 0-7, includ­ing 0-4 in conference play. In addition, Albion has been out­scored on the season by a mar­gin of 21-6. 
The Belles will head to Michigan face Albion at noon Saturday. 
Contact Matt Unger                munger@nd.edu 
Dealy 
continued from page 20 
momentum. It also makes it more fun to play.” 
The Irish take the Joyce Cen­ter court at 2 p.m. Saturday and 1 p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Cory Bernard at           cbernard@nd.edu 


Clark 
continued from page 20 
to do their job. And it always starts with our forwards [if they can give] pressure in their half.” 
That strong team defense must continue if the Irish wish to have success against the Car­dinals (6-1-0). Louisville has not been shut out this season and has scored at least two goals in five games. 
Senior forward Colin Rolfe and senior midfielder Nick De-Leon lead a potent Cardinals at­tack. Rolfe was one of three fi­nalists for the Hermann Trophy awarded to the National Player of the Year last season and De-Leon was a first team all-Big East selection in 2010. 
The Irish are focused on stop­ping the numerous threats Lou­isville offers. 
“Louisville’s a very talented team,” Klazura said. “They’ve got a lot of dangerous players. 
We know they’re good with the ball in one-on-one matchups; they’re good moving the ball from side to side. So I think it’s going to be important as a team to keep the ball.” 
Clark also recognizes the Car­dinals’ skill in transition. 
“They’re very dangerous in the break,” Clark said. “They pressure you very hard when you have the ball and they’re also strong in set pieces. They’re good in every department.” 
The matchup is the Big East opener for each squad. Clark, however, is trying to approach it as a typical game. 
“Obviously you’d like to win the league and you’d like to win the conference tournament and they’re certainly goals for the team I’m sure,” he said. “But I also think making it to the NCAA Tournament is the biggest of all aims and it doesn’t really matter whether it’s conference games or non-conference games.” 
Given the recent history be­tween the Irish and Cardinals, treating it as just another game might be easier said than done. Louisville defeated Notre Dame twice last season, winning in the regular season 2-0 and nar­rowly defeating the Irish 1-0 in the Big East semifinals. 
The past results, along with the high ranking of both squads, give some extra meaning to this contest. 
“I think we’d be kidding our­selves if we said it wasn’t a game with a little extra impor­tance,” Klazura said. “There’s a lot there that’s on the table: our record, this is a huge game for the Big East, huge game for ranking, huge game for RPI and then when you lose to a team two times in a row, you kind of want to get them the third time.” 
If all those factors aren’t enough to up the ante, the game will also be shown live nation­ally on Fox Soccer Channel. 
Clark is hopeful the Notre Dame students will make a good showing to support the Irish on national television. 
“Notre Dame is a great athlet­ic school,” Clark said. “We’re on Fox Soccer Channel. We want to be shown as a university that we support our athletics. If you’re a soccer fan you must get out for this game. If you’re not a soccer fan, we need you. Notre 

Bohaboy 
continued from page 20 
lead at halftime. 
Waldrum said Bohaboy has been one of the few bright spots in the first half of the season. 
“Bohaboy’s play was a posi­tive; her getting another goal gives her two in the last two games. Hopefully we’ve got her on the right track,” he said. “Outside of that, I think we are just not consistent. [When] it’s early in the year, you think it’s going to come, it’s going to come — but we’re 10 games into it. We’ve got a lot of work to do, and we’ll start Saturday when we get home.” 
The Bulls (4-3-3, 0-1-2 Big East) tied the game 1-1 with 
3:36 remaining in the sec­ond half, sending the game into double overtime. The tie marks Notre Dame’s second overtime finish, the other ending in a 2-1 loss to No. 5 North Carolina. 
The Irish will continue Big East competition on the road, as they take on No. 14 Marquette over the weekend. The matchup will mark Notre Dame’s fifth game on the road against a ranked opponent. The Irish are 1-2-2 on the road so far this season. 
“[Marquette is a] very good team — as good as anybody we’ve played this year. They are very athletic and intense, and they’re off to a great year,” Waldrum said. “We’ll be in a lot of trouble Sunday if we play the way we did to­day. It’s a very difficult place to play.” 
Marquette (9-2, 2-1 Big East) is coming off a 2-1 victory over DePaul, giving the Golden Ea­gles an impressive 3-0 record Dame needs you for support to cheer the team on.” 
The Irish and Cardinals are set to kickoff at 7 p.m. Saturday in Alumni Stadium in a critical early conference matchup. 
Contact Sam Gans at             sgans@nd.edu 
in games forced into overtime this season. Marquette’s two losses came at the hands of No. 10 Florida State and No. 25 West Virginia. 
When asked if the Irish look at Marquette as an opportu­nity to bounce back and move forward in the right direc­tion, Waldrum said that is the team’s only option. 
“It has to be because if we don’t [look at it as an oppor­tunity], we’re not going to be playing in the postseason at all,” he said. “Right now, we’re fighting for our lives just to stay in the Big East. We have to have a big win. We can’t afford to go in there and not play well. We’ve got our backs against the wall right now.” 
The Irish will return to ac­tion Sunday at Marquette at 2 p.m. 

Contact Megan Golden at        mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 

SMC GOLF 
Belles face strong competition 
By JOE WIRTH “We have to bounce back and and senior Natalie Matuszak. Sports Writer this tournament will be a tre-Hamilton knows he has a 
mendous challenge,” Hamilton talented team and thinks they 
The Belles will be in action said. “The field is very strong are close to playing their best. this weekend at the DePauw with four of the top 10 national-He said they have to put full Small College Classic, a two-day ly, including who I think are the rounds together and get rid of tournament with a strong field two best teams in the country in the big numbers. that has four of the top 10 teams Washington “We have in the country. University and good holes 
Saint Mary’s hopes to re-DePauw.” and we have bound from a disappointing loss S e n i o r a lot of good to Olivet and Hope in a three-Christine “We make too nines, but we team jamboree Wednesday. Brown has many mistakes” have a hard The Belles finished five strokes consistently time backing behind Hope and 22 strokes be-led the Belles it up,” Ham-
Mark Hamilton 
hind Olivet. this season ilton said. 
Belles coach 
Because of the competitive and hopes to “We make field, Belles coach Mark Hamil-continue her too many ton knows this tournament will good play this m i s t a k e s . be a big test for his team, but it weekend. We have to will also provide an opportunity A no t he r clean up our for them to spark their season standout for Saint Mary’s has rounds.” and test themselves against been freshman Janice Heffer-The competition will begin some of the best in the country. nan. Her score of 86 Wednesday Saturday morning at 11 a.m. at 
The Belles have yet to win a was the second best score of the the Deer Creek Golf Course in MIAA match and their best fin-day for the Belles. Clayton, Ind. ish in a tournament was a tie for Saint Mary’s is also looking for eighth at the O’Brien National top performances from juniors Contact Joe Wirth at            Invitational. Cara Kielty and Jessica Kinnick jwirth@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 




THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE JOE MILLER AND KELLy LyNCH JUMBLE HENRy ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Friday, September 23, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
MEN’S TENNIS 
Irish travel to separate invitationals 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
After opening their season at the Illini Invitational, the Irish squad will split up this week­end, with four players heading out to St. Helena, Calif., for the Napa Valley USTA/ITA Invita­tional and the rest of the squad competing in the Tom Fallon Invitational on campus. 
Seniors Casey Watt, Niall Fitzgerald and Samuel Keeton and sophomore Greg Andrews will be making the trip to Napa Valley with coach Bobby Bayliss. 
One week after facing sev­eral of the country’s top teams in Chicago, the Irish will again face a daunting challenge this weekend at an invitational that includes Tennessee, Tul­sa, UCLA, Cal-Berkeley and Vanderbilt. All five made the NCAA Tournament last sea­son, with the Golden Bears, Golden Hurricane and Bruins advancing to the round of 16 and the Bruins earning a spot in the quarterfinals. 
Bayliss hopes the experience gained last week will carry over this weekend. 
“There were four top-20 teams [at the Illini Invitation­al], Alabama, who will prob­ably be a top-20 team this year and ourselves,” Bayliss said. “We were obviously in all the matches and the disappointing thing was the number of times we served for a match or had set points or match points and didn’t get them. And hopefully we’ll build on that this week. The field is equally strong.” 
The Napa Valley Invitational also consists of the top eight 18-and-under players in the country, some of whom have already turned profession­al. This fact, along with the strength of the college teams present, the tournament’s unique format and the reward for winning makes the invita­tional prestigious. 
“It’s kind of a round robin format,” Bayliss said. “And the winner of the entire event gets a wildcard into a high-level pro event next summer, which is very difficult to do. So it’s exciting. It’s something we’ve been looking forward to and we’re hopefully going to do well.” 
Bayliss has a number of dif­ferent expectations for the weekend. 
“We’re never going out there [just] to try to look good,” he said. “We’re going to try to win each flight that we’re in and do as well as we can possibly do. 
“More importantly to me, though, is to see if there’s any progress from week to week. Each guy has areas of concern that he needs to work on dur­ing the year and so what I’m excited about seeing is if any of them have been able to grow 
see BAYLISS/page 16 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Prime time 
Notre Dame set to play No. 3 Louisville on national broadcast 

By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
No. 12 Notre Dame faces its biggest test of the season so far — in the Big East opener, no less — when it hosts the defending national runner-up and No. 3-ranked Louisville on Saturday. 
The Irish (4-1-2) are on their first winning streak of the sea­son, having won three straight matches. A large part of that success is improved team de­fensive play, with Notre Dame al­lowing just two total goals in the past three games after surren­dering four in the previous three. 
Senior defender Greg Klazura said there are a few different reasons for the recent improve­ment. 
“Obviously a big [goal] of the back four is getting a shutout and maybe a little bit more — playing well on the field,” Klazura said. “I think everybody is playing well. [Senior goalkeeper] Will [Walsh] looks really sharp and is keeping us really organized.” 

But the defense stepping up is not just attributed to the back four, Irish coach Bobby Clark said. 
“I always say with the de­fense, it’s not just your defend­ers but the whole team defends and the whole team attacks,” Clark said. “If our midfielders aren’t getting good pressure on their midfield then it makes it very difficult for the defenders 
see CLARK/page 18 
WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Irish hit the road for weekend trip 

a habit, and we’re not good enough at the end of the day. We’ve talked about hav­ing these 10-minute pockets of time that we seem to fall asleep, and we did it again. It’s very disappointing and frus­trating.” 
Irish freshman forward Lauren Bohaboy put Notre Dame on the board at the 
see BOHABOY/page 18 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish prep for ‘Nova and G’town 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
After three straight wins 
— a streak during which they lost only one set — the Irish return home this week­end for a pair of Big East matchups. 
Notre Dame will open conference play Saturday against Georgetown, and will face Villanova Sunday. ESPNU will nationally tele­vise the Villanova match. 
Irish senior outside hitter Kristen Dealy said that, un­like some common Big East opponents, the Hoyas and the Wildcats have remained sim­ilar foes from year to year. 
“With some schools, you face a totally different group every year,” Dealy said. “With Georgetown and Villa-nova, though, they have been pretty consistent the last couple of years.” 
During last year’s regu­lar season, the Irish played both programs on the road. They swept the Hoyas, but fell to the Wildcats 3-1. The Irish later avenged the loss to Villanova with a win over the Wildcats in the Big East championship. Dealy said the Irish must remain focused if they want to beat both schools this season. 
“Georgetown is normally a little weaker, which means we just need to focus on play­ing really clean and taking care of business,” she said. “Villanova is a crazy defen­sive team. They always give us a hard time. To beat them it’s a matter of being really mentally tough because they can just out-dig you.” 
As a senior, Dealy has ex­perienced her share of ups and downs throughout the Big East season. She said she wants to make sure Notre Dame’s younger players stay focused when playing teams like Georgetown and Villa-nova. 
“One thing about the Big East is you can look back at the end of the season and think, ‘I really wish we had taken those teams more seri­ously,’” Dealy said. “With the younger girls having never experienced that regret, I feel the responsibility to re­mind them to keep focused.” 
The Irish hope the pres­ence of ESPNU cameras and the prospect of a free t-shirt will attract a large crowd. Loud support from fans can only aid Notre Dame’s effort, Dealy said. 
“Volleyball is really based on chemistry, energy and momentum,” she said. “It’s good when you have a lot of people talking on the court, and when people in the stands are talking, they con­tribute to that energy and 
see DEALY/page 17 By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
After a one-hour weather delay, No. 20 Notre Dame struggled to find a rhythm in a 1-1 tie against unranked South Florida. Even Mother Nature could only do so much to delay the next disappoint­ing finish for an Irish team that has struggled to close out tight games. 
On a day in which Notre Dame (4-4-2, 1-1-1 Big East) domi­nated the stat sheet, the Bulls played for 90 minutes and ral­lied late. The Irish outshot the Bulls 26-13 (9-7 on goal) and recorded eight corner kicks to South Florida’s seven. 
“I thought it was a great first half, and we let it slip away in the second [half],” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “Unfor­tunately, it’s continued to be 





