the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Seniors react to Commencement speaker choice 
Opinions on Secretary of Defense Robert Gates vary; Gates previously told media he planned to step down in 2011 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
When senior Rochelle Rieger heard that U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates would speak at her Commencement, she felt a personal connection to Gates’ perspective. 
Rieger will graduate from Notre Dame’s Navy Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) in May and will begin serving as a surface warfare officer in the U.S. Navy. 
“For what I’m doing after school, I think what he has to say will be very pertinent,” Rieger said. 
Gates will address the Class of 2011 and receive an hon­
orary degree from the University at the May 22 Commencement ceremony. 
Gates has been secretary of defense since 2006, when he was nominated by President George W. Bush. Under President Barack Obama, he became the only defense sec­retary asked to remain in his role by a newly-elected presi­dent and the first secretary of defense to serve under both Democratic and Republican presidents. 
He is also a former director 
of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and former president of Texas A&M University. 
In a July 2010 interview with Foreign Policy Magazine, Gates said he planned to leave office in 2011. 
“It would be a mistake to wait until January 2012,” Gates said. “This is not the kind of job you want to fill in the spring of an election year.” 
In the interview, Gates said by January 2011 he would have been in his position longer than all but four of the country’s 21 previous secre­
see SPEAKER/page 5 




ND community reflects on State of the Union address 
ACE teacher attends 


Professors say Obama President’s address 
mustovercomedivisions as honored guest 

within government 

By EMILY SCHRANK 
By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer News Writer 
While most of the nation was 

After President Barack watching President Barack 
Obama’s State of the Union Obama deliver Tuesday’s State 
address Tuesday night, Notre of the Union address from the 
Dame professors said the comfort of their own homes, 
President now faces the chal­one of Notre Dame’s Alliance 
lenge of pushing his proposed for Catholic Education (ACE) 
agenda through a divided teachers had a once-in-a life-
Congress. time opportunity. 
“Democrats and Republicans Speaker of the House John 
differ on the basic philosophical Boehner invited first-year ACE 
question of what government teacher Jack Kelly to attend 
should be doing,” said David the address as his guest. With 
Campbell, associate professor of this invitation, Kelly had a 
Political Science and director of front row seat overlooking 
Notre Dame’s Rooney Center for members of Congress, which AP the Study of American 
President Barack Obama delivers his State of the Union address Tuesday night. Notre Dame political sci-see ACE/page 4 ence professors said Obama now faces the challenge of working with both parties in Congress. see OBAMA/page 6 



Coalition discusses snow removal ordinance 
meeting. “We understand that moving end?” “We can brainstorm. We 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 

The ordinance was recently off campus, we have to be part Coalition members were know this is something that is a 
News Writer 

passed to reinforce an old ordi-of the community,” Soler said. open to looking for ways to work in progress and we’re nance. South Bend residents But she suggested imple-accommodate students on trying to come up with an 
Student body president can face a $15 -$25 fine if menting a system where stu-school breaks, and some sug-answer,” Common Council Catherine Soler asked city offi-they do not clear sidewalks in dents could register their gested starting a volunteer Attorney Kathleen Cekanski­cials to help find solutions to the allotted time. house to alert the city that it program where willing city Farrand said. students’ issues with a snow Soler said students living off will be vacant over a break. residents would shovel walks But South Bend Mayor ordinance that mandates resi-campus realize that they must “With the ordinance, when for those who can’t do it them-Stephen Luecke said a volun­dents shovel sidewalks within comply with city laws, but she students are on break, is there selves in the 24 hours. This teer program for shoveling 24 hours of snowfall at said some students are con-a way their houses won’t be would benefit walks for vacant walks could hold some liability Wednesday’s Community/Campus cerned with snowfall that hap-fined?” Soler asked. “What if houses, and people that can’t Advisory Coalition (CCAC) pens during school breaks. they’re away for the week-physically shovel. see SNOW/page 4 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students explore majors page 3  Full House: Where are they now? page 10  Hockey commentary page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Thursday, January 27, 2011 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS YOUR  AVORITE MOVIE IN 2010?
THE OBSERVER 








P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin ADVERTISING MANAGER: 
Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Laura McCrystal Allan Joseph Alicia Smith Andrew Owens Christian Myers Joe Wirth Graphics Scene Sofia Iturbe Ankur Chawla Photo Viewpoint Tom La Ren Brauweiler 



OFFBEAT 

Five-foot Monitor lizard wan­ders California neighborhood 
RIVERSIDE — Animal services officers often get calls reporting “huge,” mon­strous reptiles, only to arrive and find an itty-bitty garden snake. 
The 5-foot Monitor lizard wandering around a condo complex in the city of Riverside was way bigger than animal control officer Jenny Selter could have imagined. 
“She said she saw it and almost jumped back in her truck,” said John Welsh, spokesman for Riverside County Animal Services. “The residents were freak­ing out because here’s the Godzilla-like creature walk­ing down the sidewalk.” 
Paulina Rullan  Tyler Kaplan  James Liu  Ruoqing Huang  Tyler Sonsalla  Kevin Park  
freshman  senior  sophomore  sophomore  freshman  junior  
Lyons  off campus  Zahm  Lewis  Duncan  off campus  

“Inception.” “Toy Story 3.” “How to Train “The Cracks.” “Inception.” “Inception.” Your Dragon.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

Black-throated Monitor lizards are carnivorous, legal to own in California and native to the African grasslands and parts of Asia. 
Welsh thinks the scaly pet might have escaped its cage or gotten loose while its owner was away, and he hoped its owner comes to claim it soon. 
‘Crop circle’ appears in Indonesian rice paddy 
JAKARTA — Thousands of curious onlookers are flock­ing to central Indonesia to look at a “crop circle” in a rice field following rumors it was formed by a UFO. 
Though clearly sculptured by humans — it looks like an intricately designed flower — the 70-yard-wide (70­meter-wide) circle has drawn so much attention that police have blocked off the area with yellow tape. Villagers have started charging entrance fees. 
Guntur Purwanto, chief of Jogotirto village in Sleman district, said the circle appeared in the middle of the green rice paddies over the weekend. 
Among those turning out Tuesday and offering opin­ions were officials from Indonesia’s space agency, well-respected astronomers and nuclear agency officials. All agree it was not left by an UFO. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
The Department of Music is celebrating the birth of Mozart with continuous readings and musical performances of Mozart. Free Viennese Coffee and cookies will be provided. The event will take place today from 12 to 4:30 p.m. in the Great Hall in O’Shaughnessy. 
Lecture in the Martin Luther King Jr. series for the study of race given by Assistant Professor of American Studies, Jason Ruiz. The series introduces the subject of race as critical to the under­standing and preservation of social life in America and, ulti­mately, at Notre Dame. The lec­ture will take place today in room 136 of DeBartolo Hall from 6 to 7 p.m. 
Nanovic Institute will be show­ing the film Katyn tonight from 7 to 9 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Polish director Andrzej Wajda (Ashes and Diamonds, Man of Iron) recounts the tragic story of the 1940 Katyn Massacre in which thousand of Polish citizens were executed by the Soviet secret police. The price range is $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 senior citizens, and $3 all students. 
Tomorrow from 10:40 a.m. to 
12:10 p.m. Barbara J. Krumsiek will be giving a lecture entitled 
“The Evolution of Sustainable Investing: From Individual Conscience to Institutional Accountability”. The lecture will take place in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. Krumsiek is Chair, CEO and President of Calvert Group, Ltd. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight FriDAY saturDAY sundAY monDAY 



CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


26 24 HIGH 2930 2520
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


24 22 LOW 2715 16 11 







Thursday, January 27, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 





Majors night moves location 
Student government aims to attract more students in South Dining Hall 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Undergraduate students can explore academic opportuni­ties at Notre Dame at the sixth annual Majors Night on Thursday in the East Wing of South Dining Hall. 
Majors Night is a joint initia­tive between student govern­ment and The First Year of Studies, said AJ McGauley, stu­dent government’s Academic Affairs Committee chair. 
The event is open to all undergraduates and will take place between 6:30 and 8:30 p.m. 
“The purpose is to give the undergraduate students the opportunity to have all the departments and majors and minors present in the same room,” McGauley said. 
McGauley said although most students who attend are freshmen, the event is geared toward all under­graduate students 

the School of Architecture and dance in past years, with 20 to give them my current list of all 30 students walking around at 
the departments to  any  given  
make sure the list is  point in time,  
exhaustive,” he said. “The idea is that it should be an  “The most exciting thing about Majors  M c G a u l e y said, but i n c r e a s i n g  
exhaustive list of all the possible courses of study at Notre Dame.”  Night is it gives freshmen opportunities to  attendance is one of student government’s goals for this  
The  Center  for  walk around and  year’s Majors  
Social Concerns will distribute informa­ talk to professors.”  Night. “It’s been at  
tion about its semi­nars and the  AJ McGauley  the C e  n  Joyce t e r  
Catholic  Social  Academic Affairs  C o n c o u r s e ,  
Teaching minor. The  Committee Chair  but we decid­ 

“I’m trying to
who want to talk H u m a n to a departmental make sure Development program repre-Studies and 
upperclassment
sentative. Solidarity, the 
know that it’s 
“I’m trying to Center for make sure upper-worth their while Undergraduate classmen know to come.” Scholarly that it’s worth Engagement and their while to the Institute for 
AJ McGauley 
come,” he said. Scholarship in Representatives Academic Affairs the Liberal Arts. from every major Committee Chair When students at Notre Dame enter the East should be present Wing of South to speak to students, McGauley Dining Hall, they will receive a said. map of the booth locations, 
“I meet in the fall with all McGauley said. five deans of the colleges and There has been good atten-Office of International Studies and the Career Center will also be present, McGauley said. 
Several institutes that give grants and scholarships will be at Majors Night as well, McGauley said. These include the Nanovic Institute for European Studies, the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the Ford Program in 
ed to move it 

[to South Dining Hall] because we thought this location would be easier for students,” McGauley said. “We had to deal with a few logistical challenges, but because we’re dealing with freshmen, we don’t want them to have to trek all the way to the Joyce Center. We’ll have a banner up, and they’ll see it and right after dinner can pop in for five or 10 minutes.” 
McGauley hopes students will discover new opportuni­ties they weren’t aware of and get the chance to talk to department members. 
“The most exciting thing about Majors Night is it gives freshmen opportunities to walk around and talk to pro­fessors,” McGauley said. “Some kids just talk to student representatives and figure out what exactly is available at Notre Dame.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 



Students tour Sisters’ of Holy Cross property 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
In honor of Heritage Week at Saint Mary’s College, students had the opportunity to tour Augusta Hall and the Heritage Room in Bertrand Hall, buildings owned by the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
Sr. Miriam Cooney and Sr. M. Jeanne Finske gave tours to small groups of students at 12 and 2 p.m. 
location of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
“They went to Bertrand [Mich.] first because the Bishop of Fort Wayne said, ‘We’ve already got an order of Sisters in Saint Mary’s of the Woods, so we don’t need another order of Sisters,’” Finske said. 
Finske said Fr. Edward Sorin asked if the Sisters could be locat­ed in Bertrand, 11 miles away from the loca­tion of the 

Wednesday. “This has the history College today. 
Students met for “In 1855, they 
of the whole
the tour at moved to this Augusta Hall and Congregation of the campus, and 
were able to see Sisters of the Holy that’s the begin-the building’s ning date of 
Cross.” 
chapel as well as a Saint Mary’s portion of the College,” she apartments set up Sr. M. Jeanne Finske said. 
for the Sisters of Sister of the Holy Cross Students were 
the Holy Cross. 
In Bertrand Hall, the tour guides led students to the Heritage Room. 
“This has the history of the whole Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross,” Finske said. 
Finske talked about leaders who were instrumental in the his­tory of the congregation. She said the Sisters of the Holy Cross origi­nally split into three parts. 
“The Congregation separated into three: the Marianites remain­ing in France, the Sisters of the Holy Cross who were in the United States … and then eventu­ally the sisters in Canada,” she said. 
Students had an opportunity to see photographs of the early Sisters of the Holy Cross and pic­tures of the early days of the College, including a photo of Bertrand Hall. The hall was named in honor of the original also able to look 
at different dis­plays about the heritage of the Congregation, including the tradi­tional habits worn by the Sisters and artwork and music the Sisters had created. 
In addition to the tours, the Moreau Dinner was held in the Nobel Family Dining Hall Wednesday from 4:30 to 7:30 p.m. 
Heritage Week continues through Saturday with the Heritage Dinner held in Stapleton Lounge in Le Mans Hall Thursday from 6:30 to 9:30 p.m. S’mores and a meet and greet with the nuns will be held in the Lillie O’Grady room at 2 p.m. on Friday. 
Heritage Week will conclude with the All School Formal on Saturday. 

Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 27, 2011 



IEIpartnersfornewwritingprogram 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
The Institute for Educational Initiatives (IEI) at Notre Dame partnered with the Notre Dame Writing Center and local schools to create the Power of Writing Project (POW), a pro­gram aimed at improving the writing skills of students grades 
South Bend schools haven’t made Annual Yearly Progress, AYP scores,” Johnstone said. “A lot of schools just struggle with this. It isn’t that they’re bad, it’s just one of the things they’ve been working on, and some­times they need external help.” 
To enable the POW Project to provide that help, the Indiana Commission for Higher Education awarded nearly $200,000 in funding. 
“After hearing what was going on with the schools in the South Bend Community School Corporation, we had the oppor­tunity to bring this Power of Writing idea to the South Bend schools, and we submitted it to the commission to be funded,” she said. 
Power of Writing will provide training for local teachers and send Writing Center tutors into the community. 
“We’re doing the training in two different time frames, the first of which we just had, training for professional devel­opment called the ‘Simple Six,’” she said. “The second will be the extended summer writing curriculum workshop.” 
While several local Catholic 
schools will 
five through eight. “Unfortunately a Joyce Johnstone, 
number of the
director of pro-
South Bend schools
gram development at IEI, said below-haven’t made average writing 
Annual Yearly 
scores on state 
Progress, AYP 
performance tests highlighted the scores.” need for interven­tion in local 
Joyce Johnstone 
schools. 
IEI director of
“Unfortunately a number of the program development 
have teachers undergoing the training, only public schools receive Writing Center tutors. 
“The initial work was tar­geted with the public schools, but because we do have the space we want­ed to make sure they [Catholic schools] could have the oppor­tunity to partic­
ipate,” she said. “The Catholic 
schools will not have the tutoring, we couldn’t afford it.” 
Johnstone said each aspect of the program will require funding, and compensating teachers for the summer work will consume the majority of the award. 
“The bulk of the funds are going 

“The Catholic schools will not have the tutoring, we couldn’t afford it.” 
Joyce Johnstone IEI director of program development 
toward teacher stipends for the summer, that’s a big hunk of it,” she said. “The other parts will go to paying for tutoring time and scoring writing prompts.” 
The writing prompts adminis­tered to students will be one of the primary ways Power of Writing’s effectiveness will be measured. 

“We will have students do writing prompts based on the state guideline prompts and they will be scored by the Writing Center tutors, so the teachers will be able to gauge the effectiveness of it,” she said. “Next Summer they’ll have five different writing samples from each student as authentic examples of the effectiveness.” 
Johnstone said IEI hopes an increase in AYS scores coupled with a shift in teacher attitudes will also testify to the POW Project’s success. 
“We have been assessing teacher attitudes toward writ­ing. Our hypothesis is teacher attitudes will change for the positive once they’ve had the training and seen the improve­ments,” Johnstone said. 
Johnstone said she sees POW as an expansion of the efforts already taken by local schools 
and hopes that the additional resources will make the dif­ference. 
“They [local schools] know they have a lot of work to do. They’ve been doing some activities at the school level, so this just pushes it forward in a more compre­

hensive way, so there’s more structure,” she said. “With funding and expertise, we are expanding those opportunities.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2nd.edu 


STUDENT SENATE 


Groupdiscussesstudent discounts, new website 

By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
In its first meeting of the semester, Student Senate dis­cussed the Students for South Bend Discount Program and brainstormed ways to attract more students to the new stu­dent government website. 
The discount program aims to motivate students to become more involved in the South Bend community by offering discounts for local businesses. It is available for use by all Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross College students. 
“We’ve established a meet­ing with downtown South Bend so we can present the program and list the mer­chants we’ll work with, ” Chair of Off-Campus Concerns Committee Emily LeStrange said. 
LeStrange, along with rep­resentatives from Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross, plans to visit additional businesses she would like to enlist in the program. 
“We’ve gathered a list of people we’ve worked well with in the past,” LeStrange said. 
Student government also ordered decals to advertise the program, which will be given to those who partici­pate. 
Student body vice president Andrew Bell presented the new student government web­site, emphasizing his desire to attract more visitors to the site. 
The new site will provide links to each committee with­in student government, which will lead to overviews of the committee’s current projects along with the contact infor­mation for the chair of the committee. 
“Hopefully with this addi­tion, if people go on they will be interested and be able to see what we do,” Bell said. 
New Senate resolutions and documents will be posted on the site. It will also hold information for students look­ing to join student govern­ment. 
“It explains ways to get involved at various levels, whether it’s through Class Council or Senate or even just Hall Council,” Bell said. 
Members of Senate dis ­cussed different possible ways to draw more students to the new website, including a link at the top of the insideND homepage. 
Bell said the site is not online yet but student govern­ment plans to launch it soon. 

Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3 @nd.edu 




Snow 
continued from page 1 
for the city if, for example, a volunteer was injured on the job. 
Tim Sexton, Notre Dame’s assistant vice president for Public Affairs, said students should work with their land­lords so the landlords are responsible for shoveling the walks during breaks. 
“It’s important for that to be in the lease,” he said. 
Sexton also said students who leave for break, but leave a car parked on the street of an off-campus house, have faced problems with city snow laws because the street around the car cannot be plowed. 
He suggested that students use the parking garage at Eddy Street Commons. For a fee, students can leave their car in the garage for the month of winter break. Sexton said about 100 students took advantage of that over break. 
Soler said students should be mindful of the ordinance, but she hopes to work with land­lords and the city to find a solution to student fines incur­ring over breaks. 
The Coalition also addressed security of student homes over the winter break. Uniform Division Chief Jeffrey Walters said the South Bend Police Department staffed extra patrols around student houses over winter break. He said the department didn’t note an increase in break-ins over break, although he said the Clover Village apartment com­plex, formerly Turtle Creek, saw several recent burglaries. 
“We want to have a police presence out there while stu­dents are away,” Walters said. 
The Coalition will meet again in March. 

Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

Thursday, January 27, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 




Groupreviewselectionpolicy 
Association upholds 3.0 GPA minimum to run for student office 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
In preparation for upcoming elections, Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) reviewed election policies at Wednesday’s meeting. 
“We [SGA] have to approve the election policies before we can publicize them to the stu­dent body,” student body president Rachael Chesley said. 
All of the election policies and a list of violations will be available on the student gov­ernment website. 
Women’s Health and Wellness Commissioner Brianne Suckow 
said the grade  “We [SGA] have to  standard  to  
point average (GPA) policy states that stu­dents running  approve the election policies before we can publicize them to the  which those running for student gov-e r n m e n t  
for office must have a GPA of  student body.”  should adhere. “Classes are  
3.0 or higher at the time of elec­tion as stated in  Rachael Chesley student body president  hard. Saint Mary’s is d e m a n d i n g ,  
the official elec­ but  I  think  
tion policies.  that  as  far  as  
“I think that it  r e p r e s e n t i n g  

is important to demonstrate the best of the best, as stu­the importance of education, dent government should do, but some people during last having a minimum 3.0 GPA is year’s election mentioned how a good line to draw for a min-this made it difficult to find a running mate,” Suckow said. “I think it’s something to dis­cuss.” 
Student Diversity Board President Morgan Gay agreed, suggesting that the GPA mini­mum had the potential to exclude candidates, who, aside from their academic history, may have great lead­ership skills. 
“I feel like there are a ton of great leaders out there, but this [GPA requirement] may be the only thing that is stop­ping them from running,” Gay said. 
Other board members, including Technology Commissioner Laura Ruiz, said the 3.0 GPA stipula­tion was a 

imum,” Ruiz said. “We are supposed to represent the best.” 
Chesley added statistics to the conversation regarding students at Saint Mary’s and GPAs that she had gathered from the registrar: the medi­an GPA of Saint Mary’s stu­dents is 3.295, the mean or average GPA is 3.221, and the total number of students with a 3.0 or above GPA is over 1,000. 
SGA passed a motion to maintain the 3.0 GPA require­ment. 
The group changed election policies to clarify that a stu­dent is not eligible to run for office if she is planning on studying abroad for a semes­ter or academic year during her tenure in office. 
Voting will take place Feb. 24 for SGA, Residence Hall Association (RHA), and Student Diversity Board (SDB). Voting for class boards will be March 3. 
“One thing we were pas­sionate about was making sure that the information for elections was open for all stu­dents, not just those who have had previous experience with student government,” Chesley said. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 
ACE 
continued from page 1 
he said was an incredible opportunity. 
“I studied Political Science and Theology at Marquette University, so meeting the Speaker of the House and [Cardinal Donald Wuerl] at such a historic speech was a dream come true,” Kelly said. “It was a blessing to sit with one of my students in witness to the advantage of Catholic education.” 
Boehner invited one student, one parent and one teacher from each of the four Consortium of Catholic Academies’ inner-city schools to attend President Obama’s speech. 
Kelly, a middle school teacher at the St. Thomas More Catholic School in Washington, D.C., is earning his master’s degree from Notre Dame through the ACE pro­gram. He said he especially enjoyed Obama’s discussion of education. 
“I was encouraged by President Obama’s attention to the American educational sys­tem, especially his conviction that education begins within the home,” he said. “I appreci­ated his support of America’s teachers, but I was most impressed when he challenged children watching the address to serve their country by seek­ing an educational profes­sion.” 
While Obama’s remarks about the educational system were on a general level, Kelly said he believes it is one’s duty as a Catholic to carry this mes­sage to the nation’s parochial schools. 
“It is imperative that we address the crisis in Catholic education for the good of our Church and the success of our children,” he said. “Our Christian faith requires soli­darity in this effort.” 
Kelly said although the gov­ernment can help finance a child’s education, it is up to 





Gates 
continued from page 1 
taries of defense. 
“I think the toughest thing in public life is knowing when to dance off the stage,” he said. 
For seniors who do not share Rieger’s personal con­nection to Gates’ position, reactions to the University’s announcement varied. 
Senior Colin Parker said while he does not know much about Gates, he is interested to hear a speech from a high-ranking government official. 
“I’m not too familiar with his career, but I know he’s running two wars.” Parker said. “It could be really cool. He’s a really prominent guy with an interesting history.” 
Senior Steven Ouyang said he was disappointed when he heard Gates would speak at his graduation. 
“He’s not a glamorous choice for a speaker,” Ouyang said. “And in the end I think he’s going to be a good choice to be a Commencement speaker. He’s been chosen and it is who it is.” 
the student’s educators and parents to ensure his or her success. 
“Politicians can help us fill empty desks in Catholic schools, but well-crafted edu­cational policies will not work without execution by talented, dedicated teachers and sup­portive, invested parents,” he said. 
In addition to attending Obama’s address, Kelly said sitting with Cardinal Wuerl was also an honor. 
“[Wuerl] is deeply committed to spreading the Gospel in our nation’s schools,” he said. 
This week marks National School Choice week, which is dedicated to finding effective educational options for every child. Several politicians in Washington, including Boehner are strong propo­nents of this week. 
Kelly said Boehner has been a longtime supporter of the Washington Opportunity Scholarship program, which enables low-income families to send their children to private or parochial school. 
“The program was the first federally-funded K-12 scholar­ship program in the nation’s history, but was repealed by the Obama Administration,” he said. “Speaker Boehner will personally announce a bill [Wednesday] aimed at reau­thorizing school-choice legisla­tion.” 
ACE affiliated schools are some of the schools that bene­fit from school choice legisla­tion, Kelly said. 
“Fr. Scully [director of Notre Dame’s Institute for Educational Initiatives] has said that ACE schools, several of whom benefit from school-choice programs, are ‘sacred places serving civic purposes,” he said. “We owe it to the American people to provide their kids with an academical­ly fruitful and spiritually charismatic education as we shape strong and faithful citi­zens.” 
Contact Liz O’Donnell at eodonne1@nd.edu 
Senior Karl Kingery said he was happy with the choice of Gates as Commencement speaker. 
“I believe that he is a great man with great insights because he has served our country with pride the last few years,” Kingery said. 
Rachel Roseberry, also a senior, said she looks forward to Gates’ visit to Notre Dame. 
“I guess I hadn ’t had a prior opinion on who was going to be speaking so when I saw it I thought that it was an appropriate choice,” she said. 
Roseberry said she had heard positive things about his time as president at Texas A&M. 
“I know a couple people from Texas A&M who really loved Robert Gates when he was president there, so I have high hopes for his Commencement speech here,” she said. “I like the fact that he has participated in a college setting before so hopefully he’ll be able to speak to college seniors as they’re leaving a university.” 


Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, January 27, 2011 


Obama 
continued from page 1 
Democracy. “The President’s challenge is to somehow try to find areas of common ground.” 
Campbell said disagreements on the government’s spending priorities will cause the biggest clash between House Republicans and Democrats. 
“Both agree that the domestic economy is the No. 1 issue,” he said. “They agree on the ends they are trying to achieve, but will disagree on the means. They’re going to differ on where cuts should occur and what the extent of those cuts should be.” 
Obama, who focused on the domestic economy throughout the majority of the speech, was very optimistic about America’s future, Campbell said. 
“He was trying to strike a Reaganesque tone with the lan­guage that he used,” Campbell said. “This speech, coupled with the address he gave at the memorial in Tucson a few weeks ago, marks the beginning of a new period for the President.” 
Based on the optimistic tone Obama struck, Campbell said, the speech was a “political win” for Obama. 
“When you have Republicans painting a dark picture and talk­ing about how bad things are, optimism is going to beat the pessimism every time,” he said. 
Darren Davis, professor of political science, said Obama appeared willing to cooperate with Republicans, particularly in moving forward with the health care issue. 
“He seemed agreeable, but again this is the State of the Union, which is a very political speech to begin with,” Davis said. “The reality is that many things will break down in the end.” 
Davis said it will also be diffi­cult for Obama to find a balance between cutting spending and creating the new domestic pro­grams that he proposed in edu­cation, science and technology. 
“It’s not exactly clear that all of those things can be done simultaneously,” he said. “The question now becomes how much of what the President pro­posed can actually happen.” 
Contact Emily Shrank at eschrank@nd.edu 


Proposalestimatedtocut jobs, slash production 
Associated Press 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. — The Obama administration’s own experts estimate their proposal for protecting streams from coal mining would eliminate thousands of jobs and slash production across much of the country, according to a govern­ment document obtained by The Associated Press. 
The Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement document says the agency’s preferred rules would impose standards for water quality and restrictions on mining methods that would affect the quality or quantity of streams near coal mines. The rules are supposed to replace Bush-era regulations that set up buffer zones around streams and were aimed chiefly at mountaintop removal mining in Appalachia. 
The proposal — part of a draft environmental impact statement — would affect coal mines from Louisiana to Alaska. 
The office, a branch of the Interior Department, estimated that the protections would trim coal production to the point that an estimated 7,000 of the nation’s 80,600 coal mining jobs would be lost. Production would decrease or stay flat in 22 states, but climb 15 percent in North Dakota, Wyoming and Montana. 
Peter Mail, a spokesman for the surface mining reclamation office, said the proposal’s aim is “to better strike the balance between protecting the public and the environment while pro­viding for viable coal mining.” 
Mali said the document is the first working draft that was shared with state agencies, which are giving their com­ments on it. Comments also were received from environ­mentalists, industry, labor and others at meetings held across the country. 
“Input received from the pub­lic will help shape the final reg­ulatory refinements that will better protect streams and the public while helping meet America’s energy needs,” Mali said. 
The National Mining Association blasted the propos­al, saying the federal agency is vastly underestimating the eco­nomic impact. 
“OSM’s preferred alternative will destroy tens of thousands of coal-related jobs across the country from Appalachia to Alaska and Illinois to Texas with no demonstrated benefit to the environment,” the trade group said in a statement. “OSM’s own analysis provides a very conservative estimate of jobs that will be eliminated, incomes that will be lost and state revenues that will be fore­gone at both surface and underground coal mining oper­ations.” 
The agency has submitted the proposal to several coal produc­ing states for feedback before it releases proposed regulations by the end of February. 
The states aren’t happy with what they’ve seen. 
They blasted the proposal as “nonsensical and difficult to fol­low” in a Nov. 23 letter to Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement director Joe Pizarchik. The letter was signed by officials from Alabama, Indiana, Kentucky, Texas, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia and Wyoming. 
“Neither the environmental impact statement nor the administrative record that OSM has developed over 30-plus year of regulation ... justify the sweeping changes that they’re proposing to make,” West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection offi­cial Thomas Clarke told the Associated Press on Wednesday. “I’ve had OSM technical people who are concerned with stream impacts and outside contractors for OSM who are subcontrac­tors on the EIS give me their opinion that the whole thing’s a bunch of junk.” 
U.S. Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., said that if thousands of mining jobs could be lost, “then I will do everything in my power to block this wrong­headed proposal. 




Abuductedteen’sbodyfound 

Associated Press 

LUBBOCK, Texas — A 15­year-old girl whose body was found along a roadside in West Texas was strangled soon after her abduction from a motel where she had been babysitting the children of a man accused in her disappearance, authori­ties said Wednesday. 
Lubbock County Medical Examiner Sridhar Natarajan declined to elaborate on what was used to strangle Elizabeth Ennen Jan. 4, and would not comment on whether she had been sexually assaulted. 
Elizabeth had been listed as a runaway until her body was discovered Monday evening near Shallowater, about 10 miles northwest of Lubbock. 
Police have jailed a suspect, 45-year-old Humberto Maldonado Salinas, on a charge of aggravated kidnapping. 
Police brought a preliminary case on a murder charge to the prosecutor’s office Tuesday. 
District Attorney Matt Powell said he wants investigators to gather more evidence before he brings charges against Salinas in the slaying. 
“I want them to do some more things,” Powell said. 
Jail records indicate Salinas does not yet have an attorney. 
No one answered the door at the home of Elizabeth’s mother, Virginia Ennen, on Wednesday. A posting Tuesday afternoon on Virginia Ennen’s Facebook page reads that she and Elizabeth’s two brothers “love you and will forever miss you!!!!! LOVE YOU BABY RIP Elizabeth.” 
According to a police report, Elizabeth was babysitting Salinas’ children at the motel. The report says Salinas told police he was playing bingo and that his wife had gone out with her sister. 
Police reports detail motel surveillance video footage that shows Salinas chasing the Lubbock Monterey High School student in a hallway, then grab­bing her by the arm and forcing her toward a parking lot where his vehicle was parked. Footage then shows the vehicle leaving the motel, returning, then driv­ing away again. 
Lubbock police Capt. Greg Stevens said Wednesday that investigators believe Elizabeth was killed soon after she was abducted from the motel. He did not elaborate. 
Salinas was at Elizabeth’s home when her mother report­ed her missing early Jan. 5. He told police that Elizabeth had been babysitting his children at a different motel to the one where he was recorded chasing her. He also said he had dropped her off at her home about 1:00 a.m. Jan. 5 and returned there after finding her purse on the floorboard of his car. 
Elizabeth had watched Salinas’ children previously and her mother trusted Salinas, police said. 


Thursday, January 27, 2011 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 


Attorneys argue against reliability 
Associated Press 
EL PASO, Texas — Defense attorneys for an elderly ex-CIA operative and anti-communist militant on trial for perjury argued Wednesday that a top prosecution witness’ history of schizophrenic episodes and hal­lucinations make him unreli­able. 
Government informant Gilberto Abascal is key to the federal charges against Cuba-born Luis Posada Carriles, a personal nemesis of Fidel Castro. Abascal claimed he was on a boat that helped Posada sneak into the U.S. through Miami in 2005, though Posada told immigration officials he came across the Texas border. 
Posada, 82, also is accused of lying during federal immigra­tion hearings in El Paso about his involvement in a series of 1997 bombings in Cuba. He is charged with 11 counts of per­jury, obstruction and immigra­tion fraud. 
He told The New York Times in an interview that he was responsible for a series of 1997 hotel bombings in Havana that killed an Italian tourist. 
In an effort to discredit Abascal, Posada attorney Arturo Hernandez introduced a medical evaluation from the Social Security Administration that indicated Abascal suffered from “severe schizophrenic symptoms” from 2002 until August 2004. 
The symptoms stemmed from head injuries Abascal suffered after falling about 14 stories while working at a construction site in 2000, and he went to a Miami hospital emergency room in June 2004 with hallucina­tions. 


Snow storm shuts down East Coast 




Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Schools closed, governments sent workers home early and planes were grounded Wednesday in an all-too-famil­iar routine along the East Coast as another snowstorm swept over a region already beaten down by a winter not even half over. 
“I fell three times trying to get off the steps,” commuter Elliott Self said after leaving an elevated train in Philadelphia. “I just want the snow to stop. I want the sun again. I want to feel just a little bit of warmth.” 
Millions of people got that oh-no-not-again feeling as the wet and sloppy storm engulfed the Northeast, where snow­banks in some places were already so high that drivers couldn’t see around corners. 
Classes were called off and commutes were snarled from Tennessee to New England as cars and buses slipped and slid on highways. The New York area’s airports, among the nation’s busiest, saw hundreds of delayed or canceled flights. Pedestrians struggled across icy patches that were on their way to becoming deep drifts. 
In Pennsylvania, residents hunkered down as a one-two punch of a winter storm brought snow, sleet and then more snow, which forecasters said could total a foot in some areas. Philadelphia declared a snow emergency as of Wednesday evening, ordering cars removed from emergency routes. Northwest, in Hatfield Township, Pa., residents were scared by thunder claps and blinding lightning in a rare thundersnow, a thunderstorm with heavy snow instead of rain. 
Eight to 12 inches of snow was forecast for New York City, which had already seen 36 inches of snow this season in comparison with the full-win­ter average of 21 inches. New Jersey also was looking at up to a foot of snow, and high winds were expected before the storm moves out early Thursday. 
Rain drenched the nation’s capital for most of the day and changed to sleet before it start­ed snowing in earnest at midafternoon. Washington was expected to get up to 10 inches of snow. 
The snow and icy roads cre­ated hazardous conditions for President Barack Obama as he returned to the White House on Wednesday after a post-State of the Union trip to Manitowoc, Wis. The wintry weather grounded Marine One, the helicopter that typically transports Obama to and from the military base where Air Force One lands. Instead, Obama was met at the plane by his motorcade, which spent an hour weaving through rush hour traffic already slowed by the storm. It normally takes the president’s motorcade about 20 minutes to travel between the base and the White House. 
In suburban Silver Spring, Md., Tiffany Horairy, a 43­year-old nurse, said as she waited for a bus that she was getting tired of the constant pecking of minor or moderate storms. 
“I’d rather get something like last year, with all the snow at once,” she said. 
Since Dec. 14, snow has fall­en eight times on the New York region — or an average of about once every five days. That includes the blizzard that dropped 20 inches on the city and paralyzed travel after Christmas. 
Some places are running out of room to stash plowed snow. 
Portsmouth, N.H., hauls its snow out to Peirce Island, but it was nearly full, with a huge mountain of the stuff. 
“We probably have a five-story snow dump right now,” said Portsmouth public works director David Allen. “It’s time to get a lift up on it and we could probably do a ski run.” 


Witness attempts to crossborder 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO — The Los Angeles Times reports a Muslim cleric who was deport­ed from Canada to Tunisia has been arrested near San Diego after allegedly sneaking across the border from Mexico and hiding in the trunk of a BMW. 
Said Jaziri is a material wit­ness in a case against two men charged with immigrant smuggling earlier this month. 
The newspaper reported Wednesday that Jaziri is the 43-year-old former imam of a Montreal congregation who unsuccessfully fought his deportation three years ago, fearing he would be tortured in Tunisia. 


The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, January 27, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Scholar athletes 
Just as Ben Hansbrough’s final layup in the waning seconds of Notre Dame’s win over No. 2 Pittsburgh Monday dropped through the net, I felt some­thing I haven’t felt in a while. Anybody who’s ever played a sport at a com­petitive level knows the feeling. The feeling of relief coming directly after a big triumph. The feel­ing of kicking unbelief (as Rocket might call Chris Allen it) out the door and throwing away the key. Assistant Heck, it felt as Sports Editor though I had taken the shot myself — which is funny, since if I recall correctly I had accounting home­work in front of me and a bag of chips in my lap. Not exactly Big East basket­ball material. 

That small moment gave me cause to reflect on the personal definition of greatness. I, like almost all Domers, was a varsity athlete in high school. Baseball, my sport, essentially domi­nated my life and my free time year-round. I used to spend countless hours training, fueled by the mere glimmer of hope that I might experience a moment like Ben experienced in Pittsburgh on Monday. But somewhere along the line, like many of us, I just came up a little short when it came to playing varsity athletics in college. I traded in my glove and bat for a pencil, calculator and a business textbook, and hung up my cleats in favor of an Observer press pass. 
The reason why Hansbrough’s layup made me feel like I was back on the playing field is because I no longer feel like my exclusion from big-time athlet­ics excludes me from being just as great at what I do now. I feel less like an observant fan and more like an active participant in the unexplainable level of mojo that’s flowing through the campus. 
Let’s face it: The 2009-10 season wasn’t one for the record books in Notre Dame athletic history. Whether it be the crippling football losses to Navy and Connecticut, the first-round exit in the NCAA tournament for the men’s basketball team, or the underwhelming hockey campaign, I think we all knew we could do better. This year has been more than evident of that. We even have a National Championship trophy to show for it — way to go, girls. 
Just because most of us will never take the field/court/pitch in another truly meaningful athletic event again doesn’t mean we can’t help lead the charge back to greatness, to wake up the echoes. The arena has just changed. The same way that we count­ed on Brey’s boys to succeed in Pittsburgh on Monday, there are tons of people counting on us to succeed in our majors, internships, jobs, etc. When the stakes were highest, Ben made the layup. When the stakes are highest in my life, I intend to come through just the same. Why? I don’t really think I have a choice — I go to Notre Dame, and whether on the play­ing field or in the classroom, we’re driving toward greatness. Get on board. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 


Rhetoric dangerous on abortion issue 
Over the past several months, our coun­try has seen a notable deterioration in the level of civility and rationality in public discourse. Reasonable voices advocating practical solutions to our nation’s prob­lems have been silenced; drowned 
Ryan Williams 
out by bitter parti­sans on both sides 
freethoughts 

of the political spec­trum who zealously cling to their own view of the world and reject all others without a second thought. These slaves to ideology would have Americans believe that every single issue is another front in a contentious, ongoing war between good and evil. Nowhere is this divide more evident than in the controversy surrounding this past weekend’s 38th anniversary of the U.S. Supreme Court decision in Roe v. Wade that established a woman’s constitutional right to have an abortion. 
The rhetoric surrounding this divisive issue is filled with searing vitriol and righteous indignation. Social and religious conservatives would have you believe that every supporter of a woman’s right to choose is a heartless, baby-killing mon­ster whose hands are stained with enough blood to doom them to an eternity in hell. These fervently dogmatic extrem­ists have as their sole objective an absolute ban on the performing of abor­tions in the United States, without care or regard for the human and societal conse­quences of such action. On the other side of this divide are those ardent partisans who would paint all opponents of abor­tion as racist misogynists seeking to 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 
impose their own morality onto their unwilling fellow citizens. 
Rhetoric of this kind is not only counter­productive, but also leads to human tragedies like the horrific murder of George Tiller, an abortion-providing doc­tor who was ruthlessly gunned down by a pro-life fanatic while serving as an usher at his local church service. The grief and devastation experienced by this man’s family and friends will only become more common as long as the extremists on the left and the right are the only ones doing the talking. Americans need to under­stand that they do not have to choose between these two polarized viewpoints, that even on this incredibly contentious topic, there is a common-sense middle ground on which we can all agree, once we acknowledge that abortion is not the black and white, good versus evil issue that so many make it out to be. 
The decision to have an abortion is one that no woman makes lightly. For many women, it is the most difficult choice they will ever have to make, affecting them for the rest of their lives, and it is a decision that can only be arrived at after weeks of anguished contemplation. Demonizing these women, as many on the right are wont to do, is both cruel and unjust. These women do not choose to go through with an abortion because they are too busy or too lazy to raise a child; they choose it as a last resort because they feel that they have no other options, and because they cannot bear the thought of bringing a child into a life of pain and suffering. Because of this sense of desper­ation, criminalizing abortion will only lead women to pursue unsafe, back-alley treatments, which we know from the past almost always have horrific and grue­some consequences for both mother and child. Instead of overturning Roe v. Wade and outlawing abortion, we as a nation should be doing more to reduce the num­ber of abortions performed in this coun­try, by providing mothers with more options and alternatives so that they do not feel that abortion is their only choice. 
Reducing the number of abortions per­formed in this country is a goal that all Americans can hope for and share, and we all eagerly await that day when abor­tion is no longer seen as a necessary last resort. But that day has not yet arrived, and until it does, abortion must remain a viable option for women. Those zealous fanatics who march around carrying graphic images of unborn fetuses, or who stage elaborate protests designed to mis­inform and defame others, do a disservice to themselves and to their country. Americans of all political stripes yearn for the day when divisive partisan debates over abortion are no longer necessary, when all women feel confident and com­fortable enough to give birth to their chil­dren. And until that day comes, we as a nation would be best served to follow the advice of former President Clinton, and ensure that abortion remains “safe, legal and rare.” 
Ryan Williams is a sophomore. He can be reached at twilli15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


OBSERVER POLL 
Who do you want to win the Super Bowl? -Green Bay Packers -Pittsburgh Steelers Who do you think will win the Super Bowl? -Green Bay Packers -Pittsburgh Steelers 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Fear not those who arguebut those who dodge.” 
Marie von Ebner-Eschenbach Austrian writer 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Thursday, January 27, 2011 page 9 
You matter — yes, you 
Did you know that junk mail eats up 100 million trees a year? That the aver­age North American consumes 35,000 cookies in a lifetime? Some statistics impress us, others make us cringe. The ones we ought to think hardest 
Kate Barrett 
about challenge us to acknowledge that each one of Faithpoint us makes choices that add up to become quite significant. While what we use, or eat, or buy, or do with our free time may seem like a drop in the bucket — or even the tiniest fraction of a drop in the ocean — we matter. Especially if we join our little drops with others, we can and will have an impact. How about this: This year in Chicago, the local chapter of Catholic Charities will provide 
2.2 million free meals to the hungry. That’s just over 6,000 meals every day. 
Since the days when you who are now undergrads were in first grade, we’ve seen major progress in our understand­ing of environmental issues such as energy use, recycling, and the true costs of food and petroleum products. We’ve leapt into technology that keeps getting smaller, faster, more capable and more mobile. We’ve made slow but steady progress toward creating a more diverse society, welcoming of the talents and abilities of women and minorities. All this momentum has happened, not because some mysterious theoretical floodgate opened and the waters of change poured through, but because individuals joined their little drops together until the bucket overflowed, and through the energies of so many tal­ented, committed people we learned to care for our natural resources and honor the diverse gifts of every member of our society. 

Well, why don’t we gather up our energy, our considerable talents and our resources and the foundational truths of our Christian faith to make the same kind of difference in the Church and the world? Look back at that impressive sta­tistic about Catholic Charities in Chicago: Committed people in a city that knows much poverty decided that they couldn’t let their neighbors go hungry, and they did something about it. On our own cam­pus, look at the impact the Alliance for Catholic Education has made in the United States and beyond since the early 1990’s, when it grew with great bursts of energy out of a conversation among a few friends over dinner. 
Recently, the 2011 Week of Prayer for Christian Unity took as its theme a verse from the Acts of the Apostles: “They devoted themselves to the apostles’ teaching and fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers” (Acts 2:42). This annual, world-wide week of prayer, planned jointly by Catholics and other Christian communions throughout the world, challenges all of us, from every Christian Church, to examine the truths we know from the earliest followers of Jesus Christ. We must devote ourselves in love to one another, and we must make a serious effort to live as disciples of Christ. Why can’t we join together the faith we share, each of our small drops of life-giving water, to create a new source of “alternative energy,” to bring hope to people who are thirsty for a fuller, deeper life, to bring community to people who need the help of others for their most basic needs? 
Next week on our own campus we will celebrate Christian Unity Week. Here at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s our students are a tiny fraction of the 67 million Catholics and many other millions of faithful Christians in the United States. Could we feel like merely a drop in the 
UWIRE 

Loughner’s empty investigation 
“We are going to the bottom of this,” said President Obama, just hours after the tragedy in Arizona this January. He then ordered Bob Mueller, the current director of the FBI, to help coordinate the investigation of the shooting and suspect, Jared Loughner. The intentions of the President and the govern­ment of Arizona were in the Marcel Moran right place; this type of inci­dent cleary mandates The Harvard inquiry, but tracing through Crimson the most recent mass shoot­ings and their subsequent investigations reveals that little is learned that is helpful in preventing future lethal episodes. Instead, what comes out of each investigation is a collection of fateful ‘warning signs’ that were not put together by either parents, schools, or close friends leading up to the crimes. Taken together, they form a pattern that serves a disheartening point: our ability to predict violence is extremely low. 
Similar to the aftermath of Loughner’s shooting, when Seung-Hui Cho killed 32 people and took his own life on the campus of Virginia Tech in 2007, the Governor of Virginia ordered a full-scale investigation into the life of Cho and the incident itself. What came out of that reportwas evidence of a checkered personal history, inadequate com­munication between Cho’s therapists and teach­ers, and the ease with which Cho was able to acquire firearms (by state law it was actually ille­gal for him to do so). A few mistakes were revealed, such as how police and security person­nel could have better handled the shooting while it was taking place, but regarding the signs that this man would commit such deeds, the report wrote: “Cho’s writings and videotaped pronounce­ments do not explain why he struck when and where he did.” 
Likewise, the two high school students that killed 12 of their classmates and one teacher at Columbine High School in Colorado in 1999 pro­vide another example of how those close to the killers were unable to notice anything amiss. Investigations of Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, the Columbine High seniors that committed the massacre, uncovered that the two had been plan­ning such events for over or a month, but even their parents had no idea anything of that nature or scale would take place. There are many high school students that are removed, play violent video games, and do not shoot their classmates. Filmmaker Michael Moore titled his documentary “Bowling for Columbine” because the two boys allegedly went bowling the morning of the shoot­ing. Sadly, that fact accentuates the notion that people who do unthinkable things often act incredibly normally leading up to these events. 

And so it is with Loughner. Evidence suggests that this was most likely a premeditated killing; Loughner had written personal notes that men­tioned Representative Giffords’ name, and video footage of the shooting showed that Loughner was wearing ear plugs. But did Loughner exhibit traits that those close to him simply missed? Hardly; there are many people whose stories are quite similar to his: high school dropouts, talented musicians, marijuana smokers, and those who are mentally ill though not necessarily violent. 
Our hindsight may appear 20-20 now, but these sad stories demonstrate that our foresight is close to legally blind. Obama said in his weekly video address following the shooting that “we have to keep our people safe, and see to it that the American dream remains vibrant and alive for our children and our grandchildren.” To this point, ordering investigations has not made our people any safer, but rather informs us how diffi­cult it is to spot such tragedies before they take place. 
Investigations of this sort, whether they are ordered because they are politically benign, or because they appear to be appropriate responses to such actions, do not help us from preventing future actions from taking place. What seems to elude the investigators, or does not grab as much ink as the killers’ mental faculties, is each one’s ability to possess guns. It is that act of each killer’s history that made him lethal. 
This article first appeared in the Jan. 26 edition of The Harvard Crimson, the daily publication serving Harvard University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



bucket? Sure. Or we could remember that no bucket ever got filled except by adding a drop at a time. What if we started talking to each other over lunch? What if we each spent time praying about the gifts God has given us to use on behalf of each other? What if we gathered up a few other people and tried to do something, or a few somethings, that would lead us closer to God’s will for how we are to live in the world? 
We ourselves cannot bring about the Kingdom of God — only God can do that. We cannot save ourselves or the world by our own good works — only God can do that. We can, however, join together with other believers in the kind of com­munion of life and faith into which God calls us. We can participate in the kinds of practices and habits God shows us through the example of Jesus; we can share in God’s saving work in the world, one drop at a time. 
This week’s Faithpoint is written by Kate Barrett, director of the Emmaus Program. She can be reached at Katharine.S.Barrett.28@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Importance of 
presence at 
D.C. march 
In the battle to end the horror of abortion, the march of Notre Dame students and faculty this year felt much like the coming of the elves to Helm’s Deep in Peter Jackson’s rendition of the Two Towers. In a crowd of weary and rugged pro-lifers, many of whom have been showing up for the past 20+ years, it was good for them to see a crop of young, smart and elite students willing to fight on their side of the battle. 
I urge all pro-life students to make the sacri­fice next year, to endure the hardships of sleeping on a gymnasium floor or to brave the freezing cold of the “Penance Bus.” Your exam­ple will go further than you realize in raising up the pro-life movement toward victory. 
Tyson Marx 
law student Class of 2011 Jan. 26 


Imagine 
Imagine not seeing your loving mother’s eyes, Imagine not hearing the treasured lullabies. Imagine the baby boy, who will never be a man, Just because he’s not part of his parents’ 
“plan.” Unwanted pregnancies are said to be flaws Which can be terminated under U.S. laws. Is it a child, or a blob of tissue? Should we let our government decide this 
issue? 

We must step back and never cower And defend life that came from a higher power. So men and women, stand up for what’s right, And remember the innocent for whom we fight. Don’t let the importance of this cause fade, Work and pray to overturn Roe v. Wade. 
Johnny Romano 
freshman Dillon Hall Jan. 25 

The Observer 





Scene
page 10 Thursday, January 27, 2011 
South Bend Roller Girls’ Roller Derby 
USA Skating Center 3909 North Main Street, Mishawaka 7:30-10:30 p.m. $10 tickets available at the door 
Go with a group of friends and enjoy the South Bend Roller Girls’ first public exhibition! They’ve been practicing a lot for this event and are ready to show you their really cool skills. It is a great way to relax and have fun with friends while watching what promises to be a great battle between the “Smooth Criminals” and “The Pretty Young Things.” Don't miss it! 

Notre Dame Men’s Hockey vs. Miami Ohio 
Joyce Center Ice Rink 
7:35 p.m. Single Tickets are on sale for $6-$14 
Come support and cheer for the Fighting Irish hockey team as they take the ice against Redhawkes of Miami Ohio on Friday Night. Join the white out in the student section and get there early for free t-shirts. After the game, come a celebrate in the Joyce Center’s Monogram Room with free Buffalo Wild Wings plus games and prizes. It will be a night of sport, food, and fun! 
Reggeaton Night with DJ Casa at Legends 
Legends Nightclub 
12 a.m. 

Student ID required or register for the guest list 
Enjoy a night of Latin music and dancing in Legends ’ Reggeaton Night with DJ Casa. You can laugh and have fun with the 3033 Improv Troupe, starring Bill Arnett, Alex Fendrich, Rush Howell, Danny Mora and Andy St. Clair who have performed at the Chicago Second City, at 10 p.m and then stay with your friends for a great Latino style party. Get ready to dance the night away! 
“Lebanon” at Screenpeace Film Festival 
Browning Cinema, DPAC 
3 p.m. 
Free entrance, pick up tickets at the door 
If you are interested in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict the Middle East continues to face to this day, don’t miss this incredi­ble movie. This film culminates the Kroc Institute’s ScreenPeace Film Festival. Afterwards, you will even be able to discuss the movie with several Kroc Institute professors and other students. It is a great way to end your week­end! 
Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 


Scene Around the World 


Going abroad? Chronicle your travels in a photo slideshow or video and send your clip to Scene. We’ll post it on The Observer website and a preview will appear in the Scene section of the print edition. 


Social Media 
Follow Scene on Facebook and Twitter to hear about our latest coverage of campus entertainment and pop culture at large. 

Email Scene Editor Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu for more information, or check out ndsmcobserver.com/scene to see other student’s videos. 
SOFIA ITURBE I Observer Graphic 
The Observer 





Scene
Thursday, January 27, 2011 page 11 

Scene Staff Report 
In 1987, ABC introduced America to the Tanner family. The story revolved around a recently widowed father trying to raise his three daughters with the help of his two solidified with a “Beach Boys ” drummer gig, a lead role on “ER” and multiple appearances on “Glee.” None are as impressive, though, as his “Step Brothers” claim to fame. Stamos was the glue that brought with whom she now has three chil­dren. She starred in the made-for-TV movie “No One Would Tell ” (1996) with another former child star, Fred Savage, as well as guest starring on TV shows like “Boy unpredictable) meant that the show’s producers had to get a set of 9-month-old twins to alternate “act­ing” in the show. Even after “Full House ” ended in 1995, the twins still worked as a pair through much 


Valeri Bure, fussy 

named Felicity. 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

Thursday, January 27, 2011 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS page 12 

TENNIS 

Nadal loses bid for Australian Open and Grand Slam 

Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia— Rafael Nadal’s bid to win four straight Grand Slam tourna­ments is over. 
The injured Nadal lost for the second straight year in the Australian Open quarterfinals, going down 6-4, 6-2, 6-3 Wednesday to fellow Spaniard David Ferrer. 
Nadal, who appeared to have tears in his eyes during a changeover while trailing 3-0 in the third set, took a medical timeout for an apparent leg injury after three games. He was clearly out of sorts, failing to chase down balls that he would ordinarily return easily. 
“This is a difficult day for me,” Nadal said. “Today I can’t do more than what I did, he played at a very high level.” 
Nadal, who didn’t bother chas­ing the winner on match point, won last year’s French Open, Wimbledon and U.S. Open. He was trying to add the Australian title and hold all four major tro­phies, which hasn’t been achieved since Rod Laver won four in a row in 1969. 
When pressed about the injury, Nadal said: “I don’t have to tell you what I felt on the court, but best. I had a problem with the match at the very beginning, and after that, the match was almost over.” 
Last year, he retired against Andy Murray because of a right knee ailment that kept him off the tour for two months, again on the Australia Day national holiday. 
Nadal picked up a virus two weeks ago in Doha at the start of the year. He sweated profusely in several of his matches. Nadal didn’t want to elaborate on his injury, saying he didn’t want to use injuries as an excuse. 
“In general, I had a virus. When you have a virus, your body goes down and you have more risk of everything,” he said. “That’s probably what happened. That’s the simple thing.” 
The fireworks that would have lit up the tennis world had Nadal won his fourth in a row came Wednesday night during the match — Australia Day celebra­tions forced a 10-minute inter­ruption for a pyrotechnics show in the sky outside Rod Laver Arena. 
As the fireworks exploded, Nadal changed his shirt and briefly left the stadium. He came back a couple of minutes later and took off his right shoe and 
After losing the second set, the usually fidgety Nadal slumped in his chair at the changeover, com­pletely still with his head bent. 
The crowd cheered almost exclusively for Nadal — “Come on, Rafa” — while often applaud­ing Ferrer’s errors. 
“This is one big victory for me, but it’s not like a victory really,” seventh-seeded Ferrer said on court after the match. “He was playing with injury ... and I had luck. But I played my game.” 
Nadal appeared to be over his problems, saying after his fourth-round win over Marin Cilic that he was “perfect physi­cally.” 
Murray won’t have to get past Nadal this year, but he will have to beat Ferrer and either defend­ing champion Roger Federer or 2008 champion Novak Djokovic to claim his first major title. 
He advanced Wednesday with a 7-5, 6-3, 6-7 (3), 6-3 win over unseeded Alexandr Dolgopolov, after Kim Clijsters and Vera Zvonareva advanced to the women’s semifinals. 
Clijsters advanced to a semifi­nal against No. 2 Zvonareva, whom she beat in the final at the 
U.S. Open last September. It will be the 10th tour meeting for the pair, with Clijsters holding a 6-3 

AP Top-seeded Rafael Nadal sits in his chair during his quarterfnal loss to David Ferrer on Wednesday. 
advantage. 
Clijsters had some nervous moments in her 6-3, 7-6 (4) win over No. 12 Agnieszka Radwanska. Cannons went off earlier when Zvonareva started the Australia Day proceedings with a 6-2, 6-4 win over Petra Kvitova. 
Top-seeded Caroline Wozniacki plays Li Na of China in another semifinal Thursday, before Federer and third-seeded Djokovic meet in a night semifi­nal. 
Dolgopolov had already beaten 2008 runner-up Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and French Open finalist Robin Soderling and has the kind of unorthodox game that can unsettle higher-ranked players. 
Apart from the second set, when 2010 finalist Murray didn’t lose a point on serve until he had triple set point, momentum swung frequently. 
Dolgopolov had 77 unforced errors, mainly because he was trying to push Murray. In the first set, it took Murray more than 10 minutes and four set points to finally win the 12th game. 


PGA TOUR 




Tiger set to begin 2011 season at Torrey Pines 
personal life last year. me. I think it’s exciting for my Mickelson said with a grin. His seventh win as a pro on this 
Associated Press 

Woods said he is looking for-kids, and we’re really looking for-Woods said he’s fresh going public course along the Pacific ward to the Farmers Insurance ward to it.” into a new season for the first Bluffs was perhaps the most SAN DIEGO— Tiger Woods at Open, which can be interpreted Woods and Phil Mickelson are time in about six years, although famous, the 2008 U.S. Open. He Torrey Pines felt like the start of so many ways. the top attractions, as always, his two-month break was not made a 12-foot birdie on the any other season on the PGA It’s a new year, and he would even though it’s odd to promote pain-free. He had a cortisone 72nd hole to force a playoff with Tour, except when he awoke at just as soon forget about the last them as No. 3 and No. 5 in the shot in his right ankle two days Rocco Mediate, and beat him in 
3:30 a.m. Wednesday and real-one. Woods failed to win any-world. Mickelson’s distractions after the Chevron World 19 holes the next day. ized he had plenty of time on his where in the world for the first last year weren’t self-inflicted. He Challenge, which he said kept Not by coincidence, Woods will hands. time in his pro career while going had to cope with arthritis the sec-him out for a week. be playing with Mediate (along 
Gone was the crack-of-dawn through a divorce brought on by ond half of the season, and now Even so, there wasn’t much with Anthony Kim) the first two tee time in the pro-am that had his extramarital affairs. can resume is workouts and else on his mind besides golf. rounds. The PGA Tour this year is belonged to him for so many He also feels that he has other preparations. “It’s nice to have an offseason moving around some of the pair-years, a product of being the No. restored a sense of balance to his “I’ve been antsy to get back where I wasn’t in pain and recov-ings to create story lines. 1 player. He was 68th on the life, and he’s eager to see how and play,” Mickelson said. “I did-ering from something,” Woods Mediate expects to see the money list last year and no that will translate to golf. n’t finish the year the way I want-said. “I’ve had so many darn sur-Woods he did that day at Torrey. longer gets first pick of the best “I think in order to play this ed to, and I wanted to try to geries and everything. Granted, I “My opinion, if he gets it and tee times. game at a high level, it helps to make 2011 the year that I had a cortisone shot, but I was starts driving his ball where he’s 
“I get to sleep in a little bit,” have a clear mind,” Woods said thought 2010 was going to be.” fine in a week. I haven’t had an looking, the game is over,” Woods said. “Got up at 3:30 this before going out for his 11 a.m. He also expects a different look offseason like this. It’s always Mediate said. “It doesn’t matter morning not knowing what to pro-am time on the South Course. from Woods. Mickelson played been trying to somehow, ‘Can I who is there. Call it what you do.” “I’ve played at the high levels with him in the final round in get myself to start up again?’ want. I’ve seen it. I’ve been 
He isn’t the defending champi-before in the past without a clear Chicago last year, and noticed the This was nice to actually practice around it. I’ve studied it. If you on, even though Woods hasn’t mind, but it helps to be consis-speed in his swing starting to and build.” put him in the fairway, as good as lost at Torrey Pines since 2004. tent. It helps having your life in return. Now it’s time to evaluate his he putts, as good as his short Then again, he hasn’t played balance. Certainly, my life is “I expect that he’ll be the Tiger game. And there’s no better to game is, good luck. If he can get since 2008 because of knee sur-much more balanced than it was that we’ve known for over a measure the progress than the ball back on the fairway, gery, followed by an imploding in the past. That’s exciting for decade, unfortunately,” Torrey Pines. Tiger will become Tiger again.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 

FOR RENT 
GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT RENTAL: 
House for rent for graduation/JPW/weddings,football, etc. 
Perfect location-right next to the new Eddy Street Commons-walk to everything-safe family oriented street. 
Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for additional info and photos ——————————————— 
Walk to Campus Student Housing. 1, 2, and 3 bedrooms from $465 per bed. Swimming Pool, Fitness Center, Tanning Beds. Clover Village and Clover Ridge. 
574.272.8124 www.colvervillageapartments.com ——————————————— 


PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu ——————————————— 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in 
place to assist you. 

If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 
or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND's website at: 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. ——————————————— Michael: “It was on company prop­erty with company property. So double jeopardy, we’re fine.” Ryan: “I don’t think you understand how double jeopardy works.” Michael: “Oh, I’m sorry. What is ‘we’re fine?’” ——————————————— 
Dan: “I could not answer you that question.” ——————————————— Ace Ventura: “Well, I'm not really ready for a relationship, Lois, but thank you for asking. Hey, maybe I'll give you a call sometime. Your number's still 911? All righty then.” 
——————————————— Harry: “Yeah I called her up, she gave me a bunch of crap about me not listening to her, or something, I don’t know, I wasn’t really paying attention.” ——————————————— 
Woody Allen: “I was thrown out of college for cheating on the meta­physics exam: I looked into the soul of another boy.” ——————————————— 
Dick Pepperfield: "How did you learn to play basketball?" Jackie Moon: "I saw it on TV a cou­ple times, I thought I could do that." 
——————————————— 

Thursday, January 27, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 

NCAA BASKETBALL 


Friars make No. 8 Villanova latest upset victim 
Texas shuts down Cowboy offense; Minnesota beats Northwestern; Cincinnati rides late run past Rutgers 
half. On Wednesday, Wayns was 2 people with ties to the basketball 
Associated Press 

for 4 on 3-pointers, but Fisher program. 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. — Marshon missed all four of his attempts The Longhorns (17-3, 5-0 Big Brooks scored 20 points and and Stokes went 1 for 9. 12) wore the same orange Providence upset a ranked team Providence charged into a 6-0 “Remember the 10” T-shirts as for the second time in five days lead on 3-pointers by Gerard Oklahoma State during warmups, with an 83-68 win over No. Coleman and Vincent Council, then deployed the same stiff 8 Villanova on Wednesday night. who each scored 16 points. It was defense that has provided them a 
The Friars had gone 51 weeks 8-4 before Villanova tied it 8-all perfect start to conference play. and 17 games without a Big East when Pena converted offensive The Cowboys (14-6, 2-4) shot victory before beating No. 19 rebounds. just 32 percent while being held Louisville 72-67 on Saturday but But when Duke Mondy sank a to their lowest scoring output of now have won two straight con-3-pointer just 5:52 into the game, the season and having a 13-game ference games. On Wednesday, Providence had the lead for good, home winning streak snapped. they never trailed as the Wildcats 11-8. An eight-point run capped Marshall Moses had 14 points couldn’t mount a serious come-by Council’s basket made it 24-14 and 11 rebounds to lead back. with 6:16 left in the half. Oklahoma State, which held a 
Providence (13-8, 2-6 Big East) Providence opened the second reunion for families of the men led 34-25 at halftime and half with five straight points for a killed in the crash and retired the stretched the margin to as much 39-25 lead. Villanova cut that to No. 10 jersey during a halftime as 18 points on a 3-pointer by seven on Pena’s jumper with ceremony. The 10th anniversary Bryce Cotton that made the score 10:07 to play that made it 50-43. of the crash of one of the team 74-56 with 2:50 left. But two free throws by Cotton planes on the way back from a 
Villanova (17-3, 5-2) was led by and a layup by Kadeem Batts road game at Colorado is Maalik Wayns with 18 points and built the lead up to 54-43. Stokes, Thursday. Antonio Pena with 17. who had missed his first 11 shots, Families of eight of the 10 killed 
The Wildcats were coming off finally connected when he made returned to Stillwater for the 7-minute stretch when he scored fast-break dunk that completed an 83-72 upset at No. 3 Syracuse a 3-pointer with 8:54 remaining reunion, and former coach Eddie all 11 of Texas’ points. an eight-point run and put the on Saturday night and had beat-that made it 54-46. But that was Sutton and three former players Bearcats (18-3, 5-3 Big East) in en the Friars in their last eight much too little, much too late as addressed the crowd at halftime. Minnesota 81, Northwestern 70 control with 3:23 to go. Yancy meetings since a loss on Feb. 11, the Wildcats continued to miss But that remembrance ceremo-Blake Hoffarber scored 20 Gates added 11 points and 12 2004. But Villanova’s top two shots and failed to make key ny fell right in the middle of the points while playing point guard rebounds for Cincinnati, which scorers, Corey Fisher and Corey stops. big run that gave Texas control of in place of Al Nolen, Trevor has won its last 13 home games Stokes, only had seven points Until Saturday, the Friars had the game. Mbakwe rammed his way to 18 — its best streak in six seasons. each and the team shot a season-not won a Big East game since Hamilton hit a 3-pointer with 2 points and 14 rebounds, and Jonathan Mitchell scored 20 low 32.5 percent from the field. beating then-No. 19 Connecticut seconds left in the first half and 16th-ranked Minnesota beat points for the Scarlet Knights, Its three losses have come in its on Jan. 27 last year, also their another in the opening seconds Northwestern 81-70 on who failed in their attempt to win worst shooting games. last victory over a team ranked in after halftime as the Longhorns Wednesday night. back-to-back Big East road 
The Friars weren’t much better, The Associated Press Top 25. broke open a close game with 14 Mbakwe got his 12th double-games for the first time in 11 hitting only 37.3 percent of their points in a row. Thompson’s double of the season while years. shots. But they made 8 of 26 Texas 61, Oklahoma State 46 layup after Dogus Balbay saved matching his career high in Rutgers (12-8, 3-5) scored only shots from 3-point range, while Tristan Thompson scored all 14 the ball under the basket put points and moving back in the 26 points in the second half the Wildcats missed their first of his points in the second half, Texas up 41-27. starting lineup for the first time in against the Big East’s toughest seven and finished at 4 of 22. Jordan Hamilton added 12 points Moses had a left-handed dunk four games, helping the Gophers defense. 
Against Syracuse on and 11 rebounds and No. 7 Texas as Oklahoma State immediately (16-4, 5-3 Big Ten) win their Rutgers had won its last two Saturday, Villanova had hit 50 beat Oklahoma State 61-46 cut its deficit in half with a 7-0 fourth straight despite the loss of games, including a 66-60 victory percent of its shots while Wayns Wednesday night as the Cowboys response, but Thompson helped their steady senior leader Nolen, at Seton Hall that put the Scarlet and Fisher made 6 of 7 shots marked the 10-year anniversary the Longhorns restore their lead who broke his right foot last Knights in position to make a from behind the arc in the first of a plane crash that killed 10 with five straight points during a weekend. couple of breakthroughs in 
Colton Iverson added 15 points, Cincinnati. They hadn’t won Ralph Sampson III had 14 points three straight Big East games and the Gophers started a parade since the 2003-04 season, and to the free throw line for a sea-hadn’t won back-to-back road son-high 46 attempts. They drew games in conference play since 32 fouls on the Wildcats (13-6, 3-1999-00. 
6) and wore them out with hustle, They’ve had no success lately muscle and decent passing against the Bearcats, who have despite a struggle to shoot from won the last five in their series. outside the lane and only eight Cincinnati pulled out to an healthy players in the rotation. early five-point lead, but couldn’t 
John Shurna had 16 points for get much out of its full-court Northwestern, his chin bandaged press. The Bearcats have a deep after a bad cut forced him out bench — they substituted four early in the first half. Michael players at one timeout — and are Thompson led the way with 18 at their best when forcing points and Drew Crawford had turnovers. Rutgers was ready for 15, all on 3-pointers, before foul-it. ing out. The Scarlet Knights had only 
The Wildcats had been just as four turnovers in the first half competitive as the Gophers, los-and shot 50 percent from the ing just one non-conference game field against one of the nation’s and only to opponents in the top stingiest defenses. Cincinnati half of the Big Ten, until they leads the Big East and is fourth wilted in a 32-point loss at home nationally, allowing only 56.5 to Wisconsin last weekend. point per game. 
Crawford went scoreless in that Mitchell’s 3-pointer and three-game, and coach Bill Carmody point play put Rutgers ahead 18­was critical of his team’s overall 15. Dane Miller made a 15-foot ability to carry out the scouting fadeaway and a tip-in that gave report against the disciplined Rutgers its biggest lead, 26-20. Badgers. Dion Dixon’s two free throws and 
They were on their way to 3-pointer highlighted a closing being buried again, falling behind run that put the Bearcats up 31­29-16 near the 5½-minute mark 30 at halftime. of the first half after freshman Cincinnati’s pressure started Austin Hollins grabbed a rebound paying off in the second half. under the basket and flicked it as The Bearcats didn’t score for he fell out of bounds to Sampson the first 4 minutes, 33 seconds, for an easy layup. Mbakwe was missing five field goals and a pair too strong for the Wildcats to stop of free throws. Sean Kilpatrick’s underneath, throwing down 3-pointer broke the slump and three rim-rattling dunks. started a seven-point run that 
included a technical foul on Cincinnati 72, Rutgers 56 Rutgers coach Mike Rice for 
Rashad Bishop matched his arguing a call. career high with 20 points and The Scarlet Knights turned it led a late run that swept over seven times in the first 10 Cincinnati to a 72-56 victory over minutes, helping Cincinnati pull Rutgers on Wednesday night. ahead 45-36 on Larry Davis’ put-
Bishop made a 3-pointer and a back following a steal. 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 27, 2011 

OLYMPICS 



White returns to slopestyle as rare underdog 
Associated Press 
ASPEN, Colo. — Ever the inno­vator of tricks, Shaun White has fallen behind the times. 
His routines are a little rusty, his maneuvers in need of a little polishing. 
That’s what a year off from snowboard slopestyle competi­tion will do. 
For once, the two-time Olympic halfpipe gold medalist won’t be favored when he takes part in the slopestyle event at the Winter X Games this week. For once, he has to learn new tricks to catch up with the rest of the field. 
This was going to be fun. He’s always game for a good chal­lenge. 
A pioneer in the halfpipe, White took a hiatus from slopestyle competitions in the wake of the 2010 Vancouver Games, where he easily cap­tured gold. 
Now, he’s returning to slopestyle, an event that tests riders’ ability to handle a variety of terrain as they go over rails, jumps and other obstacles. 
White won that competition in 2009 and plans to be in the thick of things again this time, possibly even in years to come. 
That’s because there’s a strong possibility the International Olympic Committee will add the snow­boarding slopestyle event — along with skiing slopestyle and skiing halfpipe — to the pro­gram for the 2014 Sochi Winter Games. 
If the committee does, count White in. 
“It would really shine some cool light on the sport,” the 24­year-old White said Wednesday, surrounded by a panel of Winter X athletes. “It has many aspects to it.” 
Lately, he’s been brushing up on his slopestyle skills, even landing a double cork 1080 off a jump in practice Wednesday. He was almost as proud of pulling that off as he was when he first nailed the Double McTwist 1260, the most unpredictable and dan­gerous trick in his arsenal, a trick that heavily accelerated the progression in the halfpipe. 
He’s become the undisputed king of the pipe and will go for a fourth straight Winter X title this week. 
Yet he’s still trying to get back up to speed in slopestyle and close the gap on riders such as Norway’s Torstein Horgmo, a spin machine while in the air. 
“I’m really excited to get geared up,” said White, who’s won 15 medals at Winter X, including 10 gold. “I’m pretty confident.” 
By competing in two events this weekend — both finals are Sunday — White is receiving a glimpse of what it could be like down the road, should slopestyle be added to the Olympic mix. 
Only a few snowboarders are competing in both events at Winter X, including Olympic bronze medalist Scotty Lago who’s still planning on partici­pating even though he broke his jaw earlier this month while filming in Jackson Hole, Wyo. 
In order to make it work, White has had to squeeze in superpipe training at night with the women. 
It’s led to some good-natured razzing, especially with his long, flowing red hair. 
“The running joke is, ‘Who is that chick? Who’s the red head?”’ White said with a smile. 
Snowboarder Gretchen Bleiler, the defending superpipe champ at Winter X, couldn’t resist chiming in. 
“Her hair is so flowing,” Bleiler playfully teased. “Her pants are so tight.” 
“Very nice,” White countered. “That’s my gauntlet I run.” 
White, of Carlsbad, Calif., has cut back on contests this season, but hardly on training. He’s still coming up with outlandish maneuvers. 
But nothing quite as adventur­ous as last winter when he worked on the McTwist, a move in which he hurtles himself 15­to-20 feet above the halfpipe, then does two head-over-heels flips and 3 1/2 rotations. 
A risky trick that nearly ended his season — and his Olympic aspirations — at Winter X last January. 
Working on the jump during a practice run, White misjudged his position above the pipe and came down hard, slamming his face against the pipe and falling “I try to pride myself on not I did, where my helmet was lit-flat on the ice. falling too often,” said White, erally torn off my head and flew 



About an hour later, the who announced another part-away, it was a pretty heavy world’s best halfpipe rider won nership Wednesday, this one crash. the event, demonstrating his with BF Goodrich Tires. “When “But I was proud of taking a toughness. you crash in a certain fashion as hit like that and bouncing back.” 
Thursday, January 27, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 

Freshmen 
continued from page 20 
Bayliss, returning all starters from last year and adding a tal­ented group of freshmen. 
“The thing that stands out for us this fall has been our depth,” Bayliss said. “We have 10 to 12 players who have demonstrated with quality wins that each is capable of playing and winning at a No. 5 or No. 6 level on a top-25 team. It is difficult to project now what our lineup could be, but at least two of our freshmen have shown that they can win at an elite level.” 
The Irish got big matches from Havens this weekend at No. 1 

Schneider 
continued from page 20 
dedication creates a unique bond. 
“A huge part of training has been being part of a team,” Schneider said. “It’s very difficult to balance athletics with academ­ics and a social life, but it’s nice to know you’re not alone. Track may seem like an individual sport, but we’re committed to this team and 


Cole 
continued from page 20 
half, the Comet lead ballooned to a game-high eight points. 
Over the next 11:10, it was all Saint Mary’s, ripping off a 26-6 run to turn an eight-point deficit into a 12-point lead. During that stretch, Ronan chipped in 10 of her 31 points and fresh­man forward Domini Paradiso scored seven of her 13 points. 
singles, who came up with a big win over William & Mary in a dominating fashion. 
“Stephen stood out in a great overall team effort,” Bayliss said. “He played up in the court and dictated play, only allowing Anderson to hold serve once.” 
In addition, for the Irish to con­tinue to play well the rest of the season it will be crucial for them to win the doubles points on a consistent basis. 
When they played William & Mary over the weekend the Irish were able to earn the doubles point with sweeping all three doubles matches. 
The Irish will also need leader­ship from the top of their lineup. 
“As the season develops it will be important for our top guys to 
each other.” 
Both Schneider and the team have started off the season strong, and both look poised to repeat as indoor Big East champions in a few weeks. In addition to team and individual league titles, Schneider hopes to finish the sea­son by breaking more records and earning All-American honors in both the indoor and outdoor sea­sons. 
As for his plans after graduation this May, the only thing more ver­
“We took advantage of our strength and drove the ball to the basket,” Henley said. “We did a good job of holding them in spurts with no points and forcing the bad shot.” 
In the second half, the Belles shot 17-for-24 from the free-throw line, compared to Olivet’s 3-for-4 shooting. 
“We tell our kids to attack the basket, to try to get to the foul line, to try and get that three-point play,” Henley said. “From a conference standpoint, we continue to hold their current lev­els or improve them,” Bayliss said. “It can get pretty lonely at the top when you look at the schedule our guys are going to face. Each has moved to an elite level and I want to see them hold it at least where they are. If we can continue to improve our dou­bles it can become a strength for us, something that has not hap­pened since 2007. Our guys have made a pretty big commitment and I am happy with what I have seen so far.” 

The Irish will travel to the National Indoor Qualifier this weekend where they will face Oklahoma on Friday. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 
satile than Schneider’s athleticism might be his future. 
“My mom was born in Seoul, so I have an opportunity to compete for Korea at the 2012 Olympics in London,” he said. “If that doesn’t work out, I have a job offer at New Balance to design performance shoes. I’m just going to keep my options open, and see what oppor­tunities come up.” 

Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
have made more free throws than most teams have attempt­ed.” 
Down the stretch, it was Ronan and junior guard Patsy Mahoney, who finished the game with 15 points, icing the game with clutch free throws. 
The Belles return to action Saturday in a road tilt with Alma (1-17, 0-9). Tip-off is set for 3 p.m. 

Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
NFL 



Louisiana Superdome undergoes renovations 


Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — The 36­year-old Louisiana Superdome is getting its biggest overhaul since Hurricane Katrina tore away a lot of the roof and flooded the arena with millions of gallons of water. 
And it comes at just the right time as America’s oldest domed stadium still called home by an NFL team gets ready to play host to college football’s BCS Championship in 2012, the men’s college basket­ball NCAA Final Four that year and the Super Bowl in 2013. 
Gone will be the groundlevel oval familiar to Super Bowl viewers. In comes a jazzier, new rectangular configuration. Workers are also adding thou­sands of larger leather seats with cupholders, new conces­sion stands and other upgrades as part of an $85 million makeover. 
Doug Thornton, the vice president of the Dome manage­ment company SMG, said fans can expect a very through upgrade. 
“There is definitely going to be a wow factor,” Thornton said. “When you come in the door you are going to see a completely different Dome. The entire configuration on the lower bowl will be changed from an oval to a rectangle.” 
The first phase of the upgrade has already added 16 new private box suites and a new press box. 
On Wednesday, a giant exca­vator demolished metal risers that had long supported the second-tier seating inside the vast stadium, which opened in 1975 and later required major repair work after Katrina flooded much of New Orleans through burst levees in 2005. 
That year the dome was best known for hosting some 30,000 hurricane refugees clamoring for rescue. In the aftermath of the 2005 storm, 9.7 acres of Dome rooftop had to be replaced, 58,000 seats cleaned, some 10,000 additional seats replaced and 3.8 million gal­lons of water extracted from the Dome and its garages. 
On Wednesday, workers with huge saws and crowbars busily reduced the risers into piles of debris to be hauled away. 
The current work will com­plete a renovation project that came as part of the 15-year lease extension between New Orleans Saints owner Tom Benson and the state of Louisiana that was reached in 2009. 
The new configuration will allow the addition of 3,500 new seats on the ground level and construction of a new “club area,” with 4,500 large leather seats with cup-holders 
— including a private club for the use of those ticketholders. 
All told, the plan also calls for the remodeling of 137 suites and four club lounges, widening the plaza concourse from 18 feet to 60 feet and adding concession stands. 
The upgrades are expected to boost the revenue that Benson is able to generate in the Superdome and reduce the state’s obligations to the club. Officials say renovation work is scheduled to be completed by June 20 just before a major event, the Essence Musical Festival, is scheduled to be held at the venue starting July 1. 
“We’ll have it done,” Thornton said. “We unfortu­nately picked up a couple of weeks we didn’t think we’d have.” 
The bonus time came when the last Super Bowl champion Saints were knocked out of the playoffs. Work was not sched­uled to begin until Jan. 24. 
Including the $225 million spent to restore the Superdome after Katrina, offi­cials say Louisiana will have spent $305 million on the building since 2005. 
The latest move is expected to keep the Superdome com­petitive for future sporting events and comes as other aging arenas have eyed or are undertaking improvements. Among them is the venerable Rose Bowl stadium. Last year the Pasadena City Council approved a $152 million reno­vation plan for that 88-year-old stadium to boost luxury seat­ing, add more concession stands, a new scoreboard and other improvements for the site of the annual Rose Bowl game. 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 27, 2011 
NFL 


Vick enjoying return to Hawaii’s Pro Bowl 




Associated Press 
KAPOLEI, Hawaii — While every Pro Bowl player endured a long trip to get to Hawaii, the journey for Michael Vick in many ways was the longest. 
Less than two years after being released from federal prison, the Philadelphia Eagles’ quarter­back is making his fourth Pro Bowl appearance — and first since serving 18 months for his role in a dogfighting operation. 
“This one feels great due to the fact that I’ve been through so much and trained to getting back to this position,” he said after the NFC opened practice Wednesday. “It’s paramount for me and my family and I’m just thankful.” 
After starting the year as a backup to Kevin Kolb, the 30­year-old Vick is coming off the best season of his career, leading the Eagles to an NFC East title. 
“I’m enjoying the guys and I’m enjoying being out here playing football,” he said. “This is what you work for. You work hard to get in this position. I’m ecstatic to be here.” 
Vick was selected to start Sunday after leading the NFC with more than 1.5 million votes, far ahead of Minnesota Vikings running back Adrian Peterson, the NFC’s second-lead­ing vote-getter at 948,410. 
“I’m going to try to put on a great show for the fans,” Vick said. 
In the past, Vick’s running is largely what got him into the Pro Bowl. He takes satisfaction that his passing was better than it has ever been this season. 
“I feel like this one, I had to work hard to get it,” he said. “It came in a different fashion. I dis­played different talents this year and showed really what I could do in the passing game along with doing everything else. Everything just came together and it worked out for me.” 
Vick set career highs in yards passing (3,018), touchdown passes (21), touchdowns rushing (nine), completion percentage 
(62.6) and passer rating (100.2). The Eagles (10-6) and eliminated in the first round of the playoffs by Green Bay. Philadelphia was 8-3 in games he started and fin­ished. 
His last throw, however, still stings. He threw an interception in the end zone with 33 seconds left to seal Philadelphia’s 21-16 loss to the Packers. 
While Hawaii is nice, Vick’s goal is to get to the Super Bowl. The question is, whether he’ll be with the Eagles or another team. 
Vick doesn’t have a contract for next season, and he could become a free agent if the NFL labor situation allows. The Eagles want him back and Vick wants to stay in Philadelphia, which gave him a shot when it seemed no one else would. 
“Hopefully, I’ll be with the Eagles next year. We’ll see what happens,” said Vick, who added that he expects “everything to go according to plan.” 
“We’ll see what happens over the next couple months. I just got to be patient and take it day by day,” he said. 
Vick, who made his three pre­vious Pro Bowls in six years with the Atlanta Falcons. He is being coached this week by the Falcons’ staff, though none of those coaches were in Atlanta when Vick was. 
At practice Wednesday, Vick loosened up throwing passes to Falcons quarterback Matt Ryan, who is making his first Pro Bowl appearance in his third season and succeeded Vick in Atlanta. 
“Matt is great. The coaching staff is great. We’re just having a good time,” he said. “I like what they’re doing in the offense and it’s been easy. We’re going to go out and try to have fun and everybody enjoy each other.” 
Vick looked sharp and fluid as he completed a 20-yard out to Arizona Cardinals receiver Larry Fitzgerald.On the next play, Vick faked a handoff to Peterson and then hit Falcons tight end Tony Gonzalez going across the mid­dle. 
The Pro Bowl is the last stop in a remarkable comeback season for Vick. 
After his 2007 arrest and later conviction, he went from living in a 20,000-square-foot mansion near Atlanta to broke and bank­rupt. His reputation paid a big­ger price as he went from hero to hated. 
Vick served 18 months at Leavenworth, Kan. 


Thursday, January 27, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NHL 


Filppula’s goal powers Wings to 3-1 victory 
Associated Press 
DETROIT — Valtteri Filppula scored 5:32 into the third period, putting the Detroit Red Wings ahead to stay in a 3-1 victory over the New Jersey Devils on Wednesday night. 
Jimmy Howard made 23 saves, and Darren Helm and Johan Franzen added goals for Detroit. The Red Wings snapped New Jersey’s four-game winning streak and dealt the Devils their first loss in regulation in eight games. 
Brian Rolston scored for New Jersey and Martin Brodeur made 26 saves. 
Filppula’s goal snapped a 1­1 tie. New Jersey had a goal disallowed with 2:28 remain­ing when officials ruled Howard was pushed into the net by an attacking player. 
Franzen scored with 43.6 seconds to play after the Devils were unable to pull Brodeur for an extra skater. 
With the game tied after two periods, Detroit began putting more pressure on and eventually broke through. The puck came to Ruslan Salei at the point. He sent it to Jiri Hudler on the right side, who then found Filppula with a nice cross-ice pass. Filppula beat Brodeur with a wrist shot for his 12th goal of the season. 

MLB 


Cueto re-signs with Cincinnati 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI — Johnny Cueto plans to bring a lot more of his large, extended family to spring training in Arizona next month. 
Cueto flew into town, took a physical and finalized a $27 million, four-year contract on Wednesday that allows the Cincinnati Reds to avoid arbi­tration with the right-handed starter and locks up another young player. It gives the 24­year-old pitcher a chance to provide more money for his family in the Dominican Republic. 
“He’s the only one right now that takes care of his entire extended family, so they’re happy and he’s happy to be able to provide for them,” agent Bryce Dixon said after Cueto signed his deal. “The first thing he’ll do is take more of them to America with him, to Cincinnati and to Goodyear, Ariz.” 
Cueto gets $3.4 million this year, $5.4 million in 2012, $7.4 million in 2013 and $10 million in 2014. Cincinnati has a $10 million option for 2015 with an $800,000 buyout. 
Right-handed starter Edinson Volquez is the only Reds player still in arbitration. Volquez asked for $2 million and the Reds offered $1.3 million. General manager Walt Jocketty said the club has offered Volquez both a one-year deal and a multiyear contract. 
Cueto’s deal is the latest in an offseason spending spree by the defending NL Central champi­ons. They’ve committed more than $150 million to four play­ers: Cueto, right-hander Bronson Arroyo, outfielder Jay Bruce and first baseman Joey Votto, the NL’s Most Valuable Player. 


“This is a big day for us, and we’ve had a number of big days this offseason,” Jocketty said. “We felt it was important to continue our efforts to try to sign the young nucleus of our club to long-term deals for number of reasons. 
“For the ballclub, it gives us some financial certainty for our payroll going forward. It’s important we have some of these key guys. We’ve locked up a few position players. This is the first of our young pitchers we’ve signed to a long-term deal.” 
Cueto went 12-7 last season, establishing career highs in wins and innings. He led the staff with 138 strikeouts and made 18 quality starts. The bullpen blew six save chances behind him, the second-highest total for any pitcher in the majors. Cincinnati was shut out in three of his seven losses. 
Cueto was especially good late in the season, when the Reds were closing in on their first playoff appearance in 15 years. He made quality starts in six of his last seven appearances. He started the third and final game of the Reds’ playoff series. 
NBA 


Bosh unable to travel with team 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — Chris Bosh plans to get dressed up in a suit, make some popcorn and turn the vol­ume high on his television when the Miami Heat visit New York on Thursday night. 
He’ll be watching from afar, and there’s still no target for his return to the Heat lineup. 
Bosh remained home when the Heat flew to New York on Wednesday, still unable to play because of a sprained left ankle. There’s no timetable for his return, either, and it seems highly likely that his absence will stretch into next week after the Heat begin a round of four games in five days starting with the matchup in New York. 
“I never get frustrated, man,” Bosh said. “Every day it’s get­ting better. Getting frustrated doesn’t help. I don’t like to be frustrated. I like to have a good time. I like to be happy. That’s way better. So I keep that in mind when I’m doing therapy, when I’m getting treatment. It’s just one step closer to getting back out there.” 
It’s a high ankle sprain, and those typically can linger for six weeks or more. But in Bosh’s case, the Heat believe they caught a huge break in that the swelling typically associated with the higher sprains never was an issue, and Miami’s starting power forward did not need to have his ankle placed in a walking boot or soft cast — another typical treatment for the more severe sprains. 
He was injured Jan. 15 in Chicago, when the Bulls’ Omer Asik dove for a loose ball and crashed into Bosh’s lower leg. Bosh hasn’t seen the replays of the play, but Heat coach Erik Spoelstra has, and he’s often said in recent days that Miami is simply relieved that the result wasn’t something cata­strophic. 
“I’m just thankful it wasn’t anything worse,” Spoelstra said. 
Without Bosh, the Heat plan to go with a smaller lineup against the Knicks, meaning LeBron James will log plenty of minutes at power forward. 
The NBA’s two-time reigning MVP is fine with that plan. 
“We want guys to play with confidence,” James said. “We don’t want anyone to play out­side of what they can do, but we want them to play at a high level and play with confidence. It’s a great opportunity. We want C.B. back as quick as pos­sible, but it’s given guys an opportunity to play with confi­dence.” 
Miami returns home Friday to face Detroit. Saturday’s sched­ule calls for travel to Oklahoma City for a Sunday game there against Kevin Durant and the Thunder, followed by another home date Monday against Cleveland and then an off day 
— no practice — Tuesday. 
The Heat often prefer that an injured player go through a full-scale practice before returning, which means the earliest realistic date for a Bosh return could be Feb. 3 at Orlando. Spoelstra, however, ruled out nothing, and Bosh said he’s given up trying to pick a target for a comeback, since he originally had the Knicks game circled on his calendar. 
“It’s too early to tell,” Spoelstra said after Wednesday’s practice. “He’s doing more than he did” Tuesday. 
Bosh is averaging 18.6 points and 8.2 rebounds in his first season with Miami. He has tried to do some treadmill work in recent days, only to find it too painful. 
“It’s getting better,” Bosh said after going through some light shooting drills Wednesday, but still no hard running. “Each day is different. We’re just trying to see how everything reacts right now. That’s a part of it. I’m really not used to playing the waiting game and stuff, but I have no choice right now.” 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 27, 2011 
hockey, consistency will be extremely important. Even 


Balance 
one lackluster game can 


continued from page 20 
“We obviously haven’t been that consistent this year,” senior forward Calle Ridderwall said. 
The key for Notre Dame will be finding a way to bal­ance their emotions over two games, especially for the young players. The first game of a road series can be intimi­dating, especially in an arena such as North Dakota’s that seats nearly 13,000 fans. On the flip side, winning the first game at home leads to a sense of complacency that can come back on Saturday night. In the regular season, that just leads to one extra mark in the “L” column. But as the chase for the CCHA crown winds down and games start becoming more and more evocative of playoff derail an entire season of hard work. Developing an even keel now will pay big dividends in the future. 
“When we finally realize it’s not that hard to do, it just kind of keeps building,” Ridderwall said. “I think building confidence on previ­ous wins will be huge.” 
The Irish aren’t short on talent. The freshman class has exceeded everyone’s expectations and has put Notre Dame in a position to capture the CCHA crown in Joe Louis Arena. With the season getting shorter and shorter, now would be as good a time as any for the Irish to learn to play with the maturity they’ll need to get to the top. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
NFL 



Body believed to be Reed’s brother 
Associated Press 
LULING, La. — A body pulled from the Mississippi River has been tentatively identified as the brother of Baltimore Ravens safety Ed Reed, authorities said Wednesday at a news conference attended by would know, he chose to go into the river,” Champagne said. 
The family has said inves­tigators found Brian Reed’s shoes and jack­et, but there was no sign of him until earli­er this week. 
The body was first spot-the NFL star. 


“We’re just hopeful the 
St. Charles 
Reed family can have
Parish Sheriff Greg some peace now.” Champagne said tattoos 
Greg Champagne
on the body 
St. Charles Parish Sheriff 
recovered 
late Tuesday appear to match those belonging to 28-year-old Brian Reed, who jumped into the river after an encounter with a sheriff’s deputy. An autopsy was planned for Thursday. 
Ed Reed said his brother was driving another brother’s car on Jan. 7 and was suf­fering “mental issues” that away and started to “jog off,” Champagne said. The deputy followed Reed and saw him run over a levee but didn’t see him enter the water, about 30 miles northwest of New Orleans. 
“For reasons that only Brian 
ted Sunday, but search teams were impeded by river condi­tions. The current is swift as it winds toward the Gulf of Mexico, lodging debris against the levee and then pushing it back toward the channel. Boats searched the river, and sonar and 
day. The fami-“We are not immune divers were ly reported called in. 
from trials and
the car as Champagne being driven tribulations that go on said the body 
without through life.” was mired in a authorization “jungle of to “basically debris” and 
Ed Reed
slow my for a time he brother down Ravens safety was uncertain 
and just bring him in, bring him home,” Reed added. 
“Unfortunately, he thought otherwise,” he said of his brother. “There was nothing illegal going on or anything like that.” 
A deputy later spotted Brian Reed with the car, which had run out of gas. Champagne said the deputy had an “ami­cable” conversation with Reed and offered to help him get gas, but he declined. As the deputy started to leave, a call came over the radio that Reed was suspected of using the car without authorization. 
When the deputy started to pat him down, Reed pulled it could be 
recovered. 
“We’re just 
hopeful the Reed family can have some peace now,” he said. 
Brian Reed is survived by a 2-year-old son. 
“He was a loving kid,” Ed Reed said. “He had a son who he cherished and loved. That was his reason for living.” 
Ed Reed said he was grate­ful for support from his Ravens teammates while the team was still in the NFL play­offs. Baltimore was eliminated by the Pittsburgh Steelers in the playoffs. 
“We are not immune from trials and tribulations that go on through life,” Reed said. 

Thursday, January 27, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK


PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Thursday, January 27, 2011 page 20 
HOCKEY COMMENTARY 

The hunt for consistency 
Heading into final stretch, ninth-ranked Notre Dame looks to build a winning streak 

YUE WU/The Observer 

Irish senior defenseman Joe Lavin attempts a shot against Michigan State on Nov. 20. Notre Dame won the game 4-2 in a weekend 
sweep of the Spartans. The Irish return to action Friday against Miami (Ohio). 
Five weeks from now, the No. 9 Irish will be playing in their first CCHA playoff game. If they don’t fix a problem that has been plaguing them all season, however, it could very well be their only postseason game. 
The Irish (16-9-3, 13-6-1-1 Allan Joseph

CCHA) 
Sports Writer
have struggled with con­sistency all year long. The sea­son begin in St. Louis, where Notre Dame dominated Holy Cross before falling 5-4 to No. 16 Boston University. The Irish then reeled off four consecu­tive wins and a tie before dropping a winnable game at Bowling Green on a weekend that came to be the first of many up-and-down series. Jeff Jackson’s squad rebounded the next night to take the win and carried that momentum into a 3-1 victory in a tough environment at Michigan. Of course, the Irish dropped the second game in the series. 
After those weekends, the young Notre Dame squad has had issues finding its stride for consecutive games. The Irish split series at North Dakota, 
MEN’S TRACK AND FIELD 
Schneider looks to leave lasting legacy 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Watching senior multi-event ath­lete Justin Schneider compete makes winning the heptathlon look deceptively easy, even if victory requires running, jumping, throw­ing and hurdling all in the span of two jam-packed days. 
Last week, Schneider did just that at the Bob Eubanks Open in Allendale, Mich., winning six of the seven heptathlon events and break­ing his own school record with 5,497 points. That performance earned him Big East Athlete of the Week honors, and has him ranked as the best collegiate multi-eventer in the country. And despite how it may appear, the senior knows that this success is the result of practice and patience. 
“Everything that’s happened so far this season is a product of my first three years here,” Schneider said. “It’s all about being consistent through all of your events, and there are lots of mental challenges that come with that. It requires a lot of preparation and confidence, and that’s something that takes time to learn.” 
Even with a No. 1 ranking, Big East championships and school records under his belt already, Schneider feels that he still has areas he has to improve in. 
“I’m really trying to focus on the throws: shot put, discus, and javelin. They’re my most inconsis­tent events,” he said. “The only one we throw indoor is shot put, so that’s what I’ve really been focusing on this season.” 
With a focus on shot put, and with several other events to practice for, it’s not unusual for Schneider and his fellow multi-eventers to put in four practices a day. This kind of 
see SCHNEIDER/page 15 

Miami and Ohio State, as well as at home against Northern Michigan and Alaska. Notre Dame also struggled in the Shillelagh Tournament against an inferior Minnesota State team but tied No. 2 Boston University the next night that began with the home opener, the Irish have managed only one three-game win streak. Tough road series have opened with ugly losses (6-3 at North Dakota and 6-1 at Ohio State), only to see the Irish bounce back in the second games. Just as often, the squad has taken the first game with ease and then allowed the second game of the series to slip away. 
Don’t think the Irish aren’t aware of the issue. 
“We obviously haven’t been that consistent this year,” sen­ior forward Calle Ridderwall said. 
The key for Notre Dame will be finding a way to balance their emotions over two games, especially for the young players. The first game of a road series can be intimi­dating, especially in an arena such as North Dakota’s that seats nearly 13,000 fans. On the flip side, winning the first game at home leads to a sense of complacency that can come back on Saturday night. In the 
see BALANCE/page 18 
SMC BASKETBALL 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Another game, another career night for a Saint Mary’s guard. For the third time in the last four games, a Belle notched a career-high in points. 
On Wednesday night, it was junior Maggie Ronan’s turn, pouring in 31 points — including 13-for-15 shooting from the foul line — and leading the Belles to a 76-66 victory over Olivet at the Angela Athletic Facility. Ronan broke the 23-point mark she set eight days ago in a win over Trine. 
Coming into the game, Belles coach Jenn Henley wanted to keep the Comets (6-12, 5-5 MIAA) strong driving game in check and limit their free-throw attempts. 
“We were getting a lot of help [defense] and forced the kick-out pass for the outside shot,” Henley said. “We knew Olivet wasn’t a good 3-point shooting team and that’s where we wanted them to have the ball.” 
The Comets shot 7-for-27 on 3­point attempts and 5-for-10 from the foul line. The Belles (13-6, 6­
4) also outscored Olivet 46-30 in the paint. 
Despite 13 first-half points from Ronan and 11 early Olivet turnovers, Saint Mary’s entered halftime down 33-31. Comet jun­ior forward Alysia Cole, who fin­ished with 14 points and 18 rebounds, pulled down 13 boards in the first half alone. 
Following an Olivet jumper by senior center Tiffany Thelen with 
16:05 remaining in the second 
see COLE/page 15 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish prepare for tournament 
Notre Dame set to travel to Champaign to challenge elite opponents 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 

The Irish opened their spring season this past weekend against William & Mary and Virginia, splitting the two decisions. 
“I felt like we played very well over the weekend,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “Last year we won 4-3 in the third set of the last match. We lost no more than four games in all but one match and stayed in control the entire time. [Senior] Stephen Havens was dominating at No. 1, playing up on the baseline and dictating play. [Junior] Casey Watt took charge from the start and was never threatened. [Senior] Dan Stahl turned the tables on Sebastian Vidal, avenging a straight set loss from a year ago.” 
The Irish have a very deep team this year according to 
see FRESHMEN/page 15 






