
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Michigan State gameday smoother than last 
Few arrests, ideal weather and Irish win lead to more successful home game weekend than USF 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
Director for Game Day Op­erations Mike Seamon said he “couldn’t be happier” with the way the past home game weekend turned out. 
Seamon, also the associate vice president of Campus Safe­ty, said over 82,000 people at­tended the sold out Michigan State game Saturday. 
Seamon called the second game day of the season a stark improvement from the afternoon of the USF game, 


ND director wins Holy Cross award 
By DAN BROMBACH 
News Writer 
Director of Student Financial Strategies Joseph Russo has dedicated his 33-year career at the University to increasing the accessibility of higher educa­tion to more students. 
Last week, Russo learned he was being presented with the 2011 Spirit of Holy Cross Award. Russo and eight oth­er honorees were chosen for the award for embodying the mission of the Congregation in their work, a press release from the Congregation of the Holy Cross stated. 
“Receiving the award was very surprising and extremely humbling,” Russo said.  “To get recognition for my work like this is very pleasing, but at the same time I feel like I’m just doing my job.” 
The press release also cited Russo’s work outside the Uni­versity, which includes pub­lishing books on financial aid, testifying before Congress and sitting on federal committees. Russo said receiving the award enhanced his appreciation of the variety of experiences his career has afforded him. 
“It reinforces in my mind how truly blessed I am to be here at Notre Dame and to have had the opportunities I’ve had,” he said. 
As financial aid policy evolves and the University’s endow­ment is strengthened, Russo said the ability to attend Notre 

see RUSSO/page 4 
when severe weather resulted in the first stadium evacua­tion in Notre Dame history. 
“Compared to the first week, talk about total oppo­sites,” he said. “It was good to get back to a regular game and not have to be worrying about weather. It went ex­tremely well.” 
Police made seven arrests Saturday, director of Notre Dame Security Police Phil Johnson said. 
He said one man was ar 


see ARRESTS/page 3 



STATE OF THE UNIVERSITY ADDRESS 


COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


Council discusses pep rally 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 

The Council of Represen­tatives discussed the suc­cesses and shortcomings of the Michigan State pep rally at its Tuesday meeting. 
Billy Wardlaw, chair of the Hall Presidents Council (HPC), which has a leader­ship role in pep rally pro­gramming, said the event’s execution was unproblem­atic. 
“It was successful on the HPC-end. The walkover went smoothly,” he said. “I thought the pep rally was great, [former Notre Dame head coach] Ara [Parseghi­an] did a great job, and it was great to have a [former] Notre Dame team, the ’66 team there.” 
Senior Class Council pres­ident Anne Huntington said she thought the pep rally went well, but student at­tendance was lacking. 
“It was really awesome, really fun. [Former Secre­tary of State] Condoleezza [Rice] was great,” she said. “But it looked like there were zero students from where I was standing.” 
Wardlaw said publiciz­ing Rice’s attendance at the rally might have increased student turnout, but prema­turely releasing the infor­mation would have risked disappointing students. 

“They don’t want to say Condoleezza is going to be there and then she’s not ... these people are really busy,” he said. “They are re­ally hesitant to release the speakers.” 
Pasquerilla East senator Katie Rose said some stu­dents skipped the rally be­cause of a history of lack­luster rallies on Irish Green. 
“I know a lot of my friends, and myself included, don’t have much motivation to go to Irish Green pep rallies since they haven’t been so 
see COR/page 4 



New course will meet at prison 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
When Professor Ed Kelly be­gan a week of intensive training for the Inside-Out Prison Ex­change Program — three days of which he spent in an actual penitentiary — he found his preconceived notions of prison inmates shaken. 
“I was tremendously moved by my week long experience in Dearborn, [Mich.,] with three full days spent in prison,” he said. “I was so struck by their humanity, their brilliance, how articulate some of them were, and how engaged they were.” 
The training was in prepara­tion for Kelly’s class next semes­ter, co-instructed by Professor Susan Sharpe, called “Rethink­ing Crime and Justice: Explora­tions from the Inside-Out.” 
The course will add Notre Dame to the list of 125 colleges and universities participating in the Exchange Program. The program was established in 1997 at Temple University with the mission of facilitating dia­logue between inmates and out­side students on topics of social problems and the legal system. 
The class will pair 15 Notre Dame students with 15 “inside” students. The group will travel 45 minutes to Westville Cor­rectional Facility each Monday night to meet with their partner students. 
Sharpe hopes students in the course will receive a transfor­mative experience similar to 


see PRISON/page 3 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students’ play focuses on justice page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Things to do in South Bend page 10 u Football prepares for Pittsburgh page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD HAVE ANY ABILITY, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports John Cameron Kelsey Manning Mel Flanagan Jack Hefferon Jillian Barwick Walker Carey Graphics Scene Lisa Hoeynck Mary Claire Photo O’Donnell Suzanna Pratt Viewpoint Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 74 LOW 60 


Marc Ackerman  Mitch Speer  Bob Park  Neils Seim  Sarah McCroy  Shawn Steurer  
freshman  senior  freshman  junior  senior  junior  
Carroll  Carroll  Duncan  Carroll  off campus  Stanford  
“Flying.”  “To see into the  “To know all the  “The power to  “The ability to  “Super climbing  
future.”  test answers.”  fast-forward.”  rock climb all  power.”  
day.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Hero rabbit saves owners from house fire 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska — A pet rabbit is being credited for saving its owners from a house fire in southeast­ern Alaska before it died of smoke inhalation, fire officials said on Friday. 
The rabbit woke up the homeowner early on Tues­day morning by scratching on her chest, the Ketchikan Fire Department said in a statement. 
The homeowner realized that the house was full of smoke, woke up her daugh­ter and fled the house. 
The fire was brought un­der control fairly quickly, with four engines, a ladder truck and 33 firefighters re­sponding. 
Damage to the house from flames, smoke and water was considered moderate. 
While there were no in­juries to the mother or daughter, the rabbit was not so lucky. The animal suc­cumbed to smoke inhalation and did not survive, the fire department said. 
Guiness ruled U.S. woman world’s shortest 
CHICAGO — A 27-inch tall (69 cm) college student whose hobbies include danc­ing and cheerleading is the 
world’s  shortest  woman,  
Guinness  World  Records  
said on Tuesday.  

Bridgette Jordan, 22, and her younger brother Brad, who measures 38 inches (98 cm) tall, were also named the “shortest living siblings” by the record-keeper. 
The siblings, who attend Kaskasia College in central Illinois, were both born with Majewski osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type II. 
“I believe that everyone should be confident in them­selves,” Bridgette said in a statement. 
Jordan’s record may not stand for long as 2-foot-tall (70 cm) Jyoti Amge in India turns 18 in December when she would qualify as the world’s shortest woman, a Guinness spokesman said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Every Wednesday from 
12:15 to 12:45 p.m. join trainers at Rolfs Sports Rec Center for low impact fitness classes in RSRC Meeting Room 129. Register via Rec-Register. 

This afternoon from 2 to 
3:30p.m. the Fall Town Hall Meeting will be held in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center in Leighton Audito­rium. This is a campus-wide information session shared by Fr. John Jenkins and John Affleck-Graves. There will be updates on the Advancing Our Vision initiative. 
Learn to use citation searching to find high im­pact articles, journals, and track your h-index in Hes-burgh Library today from 4 to 5:30 p.m. Light refresh­ments will be served. 
Tonight from 5 to 8 p.m. there will be a meeting for the Staff Voluntary Early Retiremnet Incentive Pro­gram. This session will re­view the details of the pro­gram, the retiree benefits available and other informa­tion to be considered about retirement. The session will be held in 101 DeBartolo Hall. Call the askHR Cus­tomer Service team at 631­5900 to rsvp. 
Melanie Rae Thon, author of The Voice of the River, Sweet Hearts and several other novels and short story collections, will be read­ing from her work tonight from 7:30 to 8:30 p.m. in the Hammes Notre Dame Book­store. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 










HIGH 63 LOW 45 
HIGH 61 LOW 46 

HIGH 60 LOW 45 
HIGH 60 LOW 48 





Senior writes play on San Luis 
By MADELINE MILES 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s senior Emily Schmitt was intrigued when Professor Susan Baxter first told her the story of what hap­pened in San Luis, Colo. in March of 1989, when a federal raid on alleged poachers led to controversy as residents claimed the poaching was en­couraged by the government. 
Schmitt and Baxter traveled to San Luis to get the local per­spective through the College’s Student Independent Study, Teaching and Research (SIS­TAR) program. 
“It was such an interesting story,” Schmitt said. “We knew there were questionable gov­ernment motives behind it.” 

Schmitt, a theater and phi­losophy double major, hoped to collect information to ulti­mately develop into a play. and economic pressures as 
“I’ve always been interested they live through the fallout of in the convergence of play-the poaching controversy. writing and journalism,” she Baxter said Schmitt wasted said. “It seems news provid-little time in engaging the lo­ers are doing theater, and as a cals the first time they visited response the playwrights are San Luis this summer. returning to journalism.” “Emily just started walking 
Schmitt’s research inspired around San Luis,” Baxter said. “San Luis, 1989,” a fictional “Anyone she bumped into, she play based on stories from started asking questions.” residents the pair met. The on-Schmitt said a chance meet-going project reached a mile-ing with an individual with stone in its development when first-hand experience of the the Actors’ Ensemble of South raid pushed her investigation Bend, a semi-professional the-forward. ater group, presented the play “I just happened to run into through a reading at the Little someone who wanted to talk to Theater Tuesday night. me about the raid,” she said. 
The play depicts the expe-“From there, I just kept dig­rience of Clyde Montoya, a ging.” struggling farmer who takes While the role of the govern-an offer to make “easy money” ment in the alleged manipu­selling illegally poached ant-lation or mistreatment of the lers, meat and feathers. Mon-accused poachers is unclear, toya and his fellow townspeo-Schmitt said she hopes the ple are faced with deception play will encourage viewers to take a closer look at possible violations of social justice. 

“My goal with the play would be to get people thinking about justice issues,” said Schmitt. “I want to make people ques­tion some of their assumptions about not only the Hispanic community, but the history of the United States and raise the question of what is just.” 
As Schmitt applies to gradu­ate schools for both playwrit­ing and philosophy programs, she said she will continue to work on the play. 
“If ‘San Luis, 1989’ gets picked up, the best thing would be that this play ex­poses the issue of government manipulation and corruption to the wider community,” she said. “It’s a story that needs to be told.” 
Contact Madeline Miles at mmiles01@saintmarys.edu 


Arrests 
continued from page 1 
rested for public intoxication inside the stadium. Outside the stadium, four people were arrested for public intoxica­tion, one for disorderly con­duct and false informing and one was ticketed for underage drinking, Johnson said. 
Campus was packed the en­tire weekend, Seamon said, with 15,000 people attending the pep rally on Irish Green Friday and over 3,000 visiting the tunnel. 
Seamon said Michigan State’s close proximity to Notre Dame played a part in 


Prison 
continued from page 1 
Kelly’s, and will gain a differ­ent perspective on the law and prison system. 
“This course will force you to think in new ways about crime and justice,” Sharpe said. 
Kelly said the demands on students will exceed just the commute. He said the course’s emphasis on interaction over external study will require students to fully commit them­selves. 
“This is not a human research kind of course,” he said. “And we’re not serving them either. We’re not going there to offer some charity.” 
While extensive one-on-one interaction is at the core of the class, the safety of the out­side students is still a concern, Sharpe said. 
“The inside students are be­ing screened in two ways. There will be no inside students who have any kind of sexual offenses on their record,” she said. “Be­the high number of visitors. 
“That always adds to it — whenever you play Michigan or Michigan State, or even Purdue, whenever it’s a driv­ing distance game [we tend] to have more people on cam­pus,” he said. 
Seamon said special events like former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice’s appear­ance at the pep rally and honoring the 1966 National Championship team also con­tributed to the influx of excit­ed visitors. 
“It’s safe to say it was a suc­cessful weekend both on and off the field,” he said. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
yond that, we won’t know what they’re in [prison] for.” 
As a further precaution, stu­dents will be on a first-name ba­sis and are restricted from any contact outside of the weekly class time. Students will also be required to sign a limited-ano­nymity contract. 
“This is so when they get out, they can’t go looking for you, and when you get home to the Inter­net, you can’t look for them,” Sharpe said. “This commitment states you are not there to build a long-term relationship.” 
Beyond the screening for criminal history, the inside stu­dents will be required to pass a reading test. Still, Sharpe said a lack of education will not inhibit the inmates from benefitting from the nontraditional class. 
“They don’t have to have a GED, they don’t have to have had college courses work,” she said. “We know from lots of ex­perience that people without those credentials can do well in a course like this.” 


Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


COR 
continued from page 1 
successful in the past,” Rose said. 
Freshmen Leadership Expe­rience chair Ricky Bevington said some students regretted their decision not to attend the pep rally after hearing about it from students who went. 
“A lot of people feel like they missed out at this one,” he said. “I know a lot of people who didn’t go are planning to go to the next one.” 
Junior class president Kev­in Doherty said the rallies should return to their origi­nal focus on students. 
“I know one of the concerns I’ve heard at least from some students is that they think the pep rallies are more geared toward alumni coming in for the game, rather than stu­dents,” Doherty said. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 



Russo 
continued from page 1 
Dame is becoming a reality for more applicants. 
“My goal is to make Notre Dame affordable for all who are accepted”, Russo said. “We’re in a position here where I may soon be able to look any student in need of financial aid in the eye and tell them, ‘We can make this happen. We can make your dream come true.’” 
While Russo’s work is largely guided by rules and consis­tency standards, he said there is still room to incorporate the Holy Cross mission into the fi­nancial aid process. 
“We create good financial aid policy here at Notre Dame through a tension between sci­ence and art.  Much of what I do in deciding how to allocate financial aid is driven by regu­lations,” he said. “However, I also recognize that an art por­tion consisting of compassion, common sense, honesty and the courage to make excep­tions when appropriate must balance this science out.” 
Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 




Accused Tenn. killer released on bond 
Associated Press 

GALLATIN, Tenn. — A young Tennessee woman accused of killing her newborn twins has been released from a jail in Gallatin on a $250,000 bond, walking out in the company of her father. 
Twenty-five-year-old Lind­sey Lowe left jail in Tennes­see’s Sumner County with her father escorting her, his arm draped about her shoulders. Broadcaster WTVF-TV report­ed that the woman’s family had secured a property bond set earlier by a judge and she was released into the custody of her parents (http://bit.ly/ qWaLF9). 
Police have said Lowe hid her pregnancy and then suffo­cated her twin boys last week to keep her parents from hear­ing their cries at her home in Hendersonville. 
Calls by The Associated Press to the woman’s home were not immediately answered. 
The woman’s supporters had packed a court hearing Mon­day and several testified on her behalf, describing Lowe as a sweet and humble person who is widely loved and respected. That testimony came during a bond hearing for the woman, who was arrested last week af­ter authorities reported her fa­ther had found the body of one of the baby boys in his daugh­ter’s laundry basket. 
On Monday, Mark Lowe de­fended his daughter in court, saying, “Lindsey is a model daughter and we love her very much. She’s as good as it gets.” 
Lowe said in that hearing that his daughter had lived at home since graduating from Western Kentucky University and had only gotten her first fulltime job about two months ago, working in billing at a dental office. She spent much of her time taking care of her mother, who had a brain tumor several years ago that had re­occurred in April. 
Lindsey Lowe hung her head through much of Monday’s tes­timony, hiding her face with her hair. 


The woman told Henderson-ville Police Det. Steve Malach she delivered the babies at home on the toilet and killed them so that her parents would not hear their cries, according to Malach’s affidavit filed with the court. 
Police have said they are working to determine the fa­ther’s identity. 
Lowe’s attorney, John Pel­legrin, said the woman was engaged to be married, but he was waiting on the autopsy report to say anything defini­tive about who the father of the children was. 



Officers indicted in beating 
Associated Press 
UPPER MARLBORO, Md. — Two police officers were in­dicted Tuesday in the beating of a University of Maryland student during a rowdy cel­ebration that was caught on video after the school’s bas­ketball win over Duke last year, prosecutors said. 
Prince George’s County Of­ficers Reginald Baker and James Harrison, both of the department’s special opera­tions division, were indicted on charges of first- and sec­ond-degree assault and mis­conduct in office, said County State’s Attorney Angela Also-brooks. 

Police arrested more than two dozen students who took to the streets to celebrate Maryland’s 79-72 win over Duke on March 3, 2010. A vid­eo, taken from a dorm room window, later surfaced show­ing officers in riot gear beat­ing student John McKenna nered by two officers on horse-with batons. Charges were back. Then, three officers in later dropped against many of riot gear approach McKenna, those arrested that night, in-and he is slammed into a wall cluding McKenna. and struck repeatedly with 
The video shows McKenna batons. McKenna suffered a half-dancing, half-jogging concussion, cuts and other in-down the sidewalk in celebra-juries, his attorney has said. tion. He stops when he is cor-Harrison and Baker were placed on administrative leave soon after the beating. The names of their attorneys were not immediately known, and Vince Canales, the leader of the county police officers’ union, said he had no immedi­ate comment. 


Alsobrooks said the decision to charge the officers was not made lightly. 
“But when there is evidence of potential wrongdoing by a police officer, it would never be appropriate for me to look the other way,” she said in a statement. “If I did so, the residents of Prince George’s County would be right to ques­tion my ability to be fair and impartial no matter the type of job or the standing a sus­pect or defendant may have in our community.” 


US military repeals ban on gays serving openly 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — The U.S. military passed a historic mile­stone Tuesday with the repeal of the ban on gays serving openly in uniform, ending a prohibition that President Barack Obama said had forced gay and lesbian service members to “lie about who they are.” 
Defense Secretary Leon Pa­netta pledged not to allow other issues of equal opportunity, such as allowing women to serve in combat roles, to be ignored or set aside. 
“I am committed to removing all of the barriers that would prevent Americans from serving their country and from rising to the highest level of responsibil­ity that their talents and capa­bilities warrant,” Panetta told a Pentagon news conference. “These are men and women who put their lives on the line in the defense of this country, and that’s what should matter the most.” 
Repeal of the 18-year-old legal provision — commonly known as “don’t ask, don’t tell,” under which gays can serve as long as they don’t openly acknowledge their sexual orientation — took effect Tuesday at 12:01 a.m. EDT. 
Appearing with Panetta for what was probably his final news Pentagon conference as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, retiring Navy Adm. Mike Mullen said that with the new law allowing gays to serve open­ly, the military is a stronger, more tolerant force with greater character and honor. 
“I still believe that it was first and foremost a matter of integ­rity, that it was fundamentally against everything we stand for as an institution to force people to lie about who they are just to wear a uniform,” Mullen said. “We are better than that.” 
Some in Congress still oppose the change, arguing that it may undermine order and discipline, but top Pentagon leaders have certified that it will not hurt the military’s ability to recruit or to fight wars. 
Obama issued a statement saying he is confident that lifting the ban will enhance U.S. na­tional security, that henceforth “our armed forces will no longer lose the extraordinary skills and combat experience of so many gay and lesbian service mem­bers.” 
Later Tuesday, at a New York City Democratic fundraiser, the president said he had met back­stage with some young Ameri­cans who had been discharged from the military because of the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy. 
“As of today, that will never happen again,” Obama said. “As of today, no one needs to hide who they are to serve the coun­try that they love.” 
The head of Pentagon person­nel policies issued a memo to the work force at a minute after mid­night Tuesday. “All service mem­bers are to treat one another with dignity and respect regard­less of sexual orientation,” the memo from Clifford Stanley said. 
Gay advocacy groups celebrat­ed across the country. 
At a San Diego bar, current and former troops danced and counted down to midnight. “You are all heroes,” Sean Sala, a for­mer Navy operations specialist, said. “The days of your faces be­ing blacked out on the news — no more.” 
A lingering question is wheth­er disciplinary procedures are adequate to deal with any future instances of harassment of gays in the ranks. Michael Corgan, a professor of international rela­tions at Boston University and a 
U.S. Naval Academy graduate, said it’s mainly a matter of lead­ership. 
“Discipline problems that might arise from gays serving with an overwhelmingly straight population in the military should be able to be handled the way any other disciplinary problems are, if commanders are up to their jobs,” Corgan said. 
In Iraq, a spokesman for U.S forces put out a statement noting that all troops there had been trained for the change. 
For weeks the military ser­vices have accepted applications from openly gay recruits, while waiting for repeal to take effect before processing the applica­tions. 
With the lifting of the ban, the Defense Department published revised regulations to reflect the new law allowing gays to serve openly. The revisions, such as eliminating references to banned homosexual service, are in line with policy guidance that was is­sued by top Pentagon officials in January, after Obama signed the legislation that did away with the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy. 
The lifting of the 18-year-old ban also halted all pending in­vestigations, discharges and other administrative proceed­ings that were begun under the Clinton-era law. 



Georgia man awaits execution, maintains innocence 

Associated Press 
ATLANTA — Yet another ap­peal denied, Troy Davis was left with little to do Tuesday but wait to be executed for a murder he insists he did not commit. 
He lost his most realistic chance to avoid lethal injection on Tuesday, when Georgia’s par­dons board rejected his appeal for clemency. As his scheduled 7 p.m. Wednesday execution neared, his backers resorted to far-fetched measures: urging prison workers to strike or call in sick, asking prosecutors to block the execution — even con­sidering a desperate appeal for White House intervention. 
He has gotten support from hundreds of thousands of peo­ple, including a former FBI di­rector, former President Jimmy Carter and Pope Benedict XVI, and a U.S. Supreme Court ruling gave him an unusual opportu­nity to prove his innocence last year. State and federal courts, however, repeatedly upheld his conviction for the 1989 killing of Mark MacPhail, an off-duty po­lice officer who was working as a security guard in Savannah when he was shot dead rushing to help a homeless man who was being attacked. 
Davis’ attorneys say he was convicted based on flawed tes­timony that has been largely recanted by witnesses, but pros­ecutors and MacPhail’s relatives say they have no doubt the right man is being punished. 
“Justice was finally served for my father,” said Mark MacPhail Jr., who was an infant when his father was gunned down. “The truth was finally heard.” 
As Davis’ attorneys considered filing another appeal, his sup­porters planned vigils and ral­lies around the world. Nearly 1 million signed a petition seeking clemency, according to Amnesty International. 
“We’ve been praying about it and with God on our side any­thing can happen,” DeJaun Correia-Davis, the condemned man’s 17-year-old nephew, told a rally of hundreds in front of the Georgia Capitol late Tuesday. “Let this be a case that not only highlights the death penalty but will hopefully be a big part in bringing it to an end.” 
Georgia initially planned to execute Davis in July 2007, but the pardons board granted him a stay less than 24 hours before he was to die. The U.S. Supreme Court stepped in a year later and halted the lethal injection just two hours before he was to be executed. And a federal appeals court halted another planned execution a few months later. 
This time, state officials are confident this lethal injection will be carried out. Georgia’s governor does not have the pow­er to grant condemned inmates clemency. Davis supporters are calling on Chatham County Dis­trict Attorney Larry Chisolm to block the execution. But the prosecutor said in a statement Tuesday he’s powerless to with­draw an execution order for Da­vis issued by a state Superior Court judge. 
“We appreciate the outpour­ing of interest in this case; how­ever, this matter is beyond our control,” Chisolm said. 
Spencer Lawton, the prosecu­tor who secured Davis’ convic­tion in 1991, said he has no doubt he is guilty. 
“What we have had is a manu­factured appearance of doubt which has taken on the quality of legitimate doubt itself. And all of it is exquisitely unfair,” Law­ton said. 
MacPhail was shot to death Aug. 19, 1989, after coming to the aid of Larry Young, a homeless man who was pistol-whipped in a Burger King parking lot. Pros­ecutors say Davis was with an­other man who was demanding that Young give him a beer when Davis pulled out a handgun and bashed Young with it. When MacPhail arrived to help, pros­ecutors say Davis had a smirk on his face when he shot the officer to death. 
Witnesses placed Davis at the crime scene and identified him as the shooter. Shell casings were linked to a shooting hours earlier that Davis was convicted of. There was no other physical evidence. No blood or DNA tied Davis to the crime and the weap­on was never located. 




Pa. school pulls play after 9/11 complaints 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — A Pennsylva­nia school district has decided not to stage a Tony Award-winning musical about a Muslim street poet after community members complained about the timing so soon after the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
The Richland School District in Johnstown had planned to stage “Kismet” in February, but Superintendent Thomas Fleming to “Oklahoma!” after hearing complaints. 
“Kismet” is an Aladdin-style love story set in Baghdad more than 1,000 years ago. It won the Tony for best musical in 1954, and a Hollywood movie was made the next year. 
Ahmed Rehab, a spokesman for the Council on American-Is­lamic Relations, said that litera­ture and the arts are some of the best ways to bridge gaps between 
people. 
“And those in 

said Tuesday that it was scrapped to avoid controversy.  “We’re not saying there’s anything bad about the  education ought to know that more than anyone,” Re­ 
“We’re not say­ing there’s any­thing bad about the musical. We  musical. We may potentially produce it in the future.”  hab said. “We’re a country of immi­grants. It’s doesn’t stand true to our  
may potentially produce it in the  Thomas Fleming  legacy as a nation. I think they need  
future,” Fleming told The Associat­ superintendent Richland School District  to reinstate play.”  the  
ed Press. The Tri- An unscientific  
bune-Democrat of  online poll in the  

Johnstown first reported on the Tribune-Democrat suggested district’s decision. some locals are questioning the 
Music director Scott Miller said decision. Asked whether the the district, not far from where school made the right call, 174 hijacked United Airlines Flight said no and 116 said yes. 93 crashed, last performed “Kis-Fleming said sensitivity about met” in 1983 — to sold-out audi-the play is understandable be­ences. cause of Flight 93’s demise in 
The play has no inappropriate nearby Shanksville, and because content, Miller said, but he and the sudden death of a drama stu­other members of the performing dent in a car crash affected stu­arts committee decided to switch dents last year. 



Air race crash kills 10 aviation lovers 
Associated Press 
RENO, Nev. — They came from every corner to the Nevada des­ert to watch the nation’s premier air race, a daring competition be­tween speed-hungry pilots that pushed the limits of safety. They all had one thing in common: a deep affection for aviation. 
One was a recent college grad­uate in a wheelchair who was thrilled to be at the races. An­other was a former airline pilot who owned a vintage airplane. Still another was at his first race, attending it at the urging of his father and brother. 
They were among the 10 people who died when one of the planes in the race, a World War II-era P-51 Mustang fighter called The Galloping Ghost, plunged into the VIP section. The 74-year-old stunt pilot also died in the na­tion’s deadliest air racing disas­ter. 
Shrapnel from the crash sprayed the crowd, leaving doz­ens more with severed limbs, including fingers, legs and arms. 
Since the crash, authorities in Reno have been flooded with calls from around the country, as relatives and friends worried about the whereabouts of spec­tators. Medical officials used fingerprints and DNA to identify victims’ remains. 
“We’ve had some emotional calls, and it’s because of the un­certainty,” said Kathy Jacobs, ex­ecutive director of the Crisis Call Center in Reno. “It’s terrifying for those individuals not to know what has happened to their loved ones.” 
A Kansas family saw four of its members taken to a Reno hospi­tal for serious injuries after the crash. 
The matriarch, Cherie Elvin, has been missing since the plane hit the ground. 
The injured include her hus­band, Chuck Elvin, their two sons, Bill and Brian Elvin, and Brian Elvin’s wife, Linda. Each had lost some part of a leg, ac­cording to a website used by the family. 
Gary Umscheid, whose daugh­ter, Rachel, is married to Bill El­vin, described Cherie and Chuck Elvin as “very typical Midwest­ern folks who love family.” 
“The family has a distinct love of aviation,” Umscheid said. 
The National Championship Air Races draw thousands of people to Reno every September to watch various military and ci­vilian planes race. Local schools often held field trips there, and a local sports book took wagers on the outcomes. 
During the races, planes flew wingtip-to-wingtip as low as 50 feet (15 meters) off the ground. The competitors follow an oval path around pylons, with dis­tances and speeds depending on the class of aircraft. Pilots reached speeds of up to 500 mph. 


US tests earthquake warning system 
Associated Press 

PASADENA, Calif. — Eliza­beth Cochran was sitting in her office when her computer sud­denly sounded an alarm. 
Beep. Beep. Beep. 

A map of California on her screen lit up with a red dot, signaling an earthquake had struck. A clock next to the map counted down the seconds until shock waves fanning out from the epicenter north of Los An­geles reached her location in Pasadena: 5-4-3-2-1. 
Right on cue, Cochran felt her chair quiver ever so slight­ly from a magnitude-4.2 that rumbled through Southern Cal­ifornia on Sept. 1. 
“If I hadn’t known it was an earthquake, I would have thought it was a truck going by,” she said. 
After years of lagging be­hind Japan, Mexico and other quake-prone countries, the 
U.S. government has been qui­etly testing an earthquake early warning system in California since February. Cochran be­longs to an exclusive club of sci­entists who receive a heads up every time the state shakes. 
The alert system is still crude and messages are not yet broad­cast to residents or businesses. 
With more testing and fund­ing, researchers hope to build a public warning system similar to the Japanese that has been credited with saving lives dur­ing the March 11 magnitude-9 disaster. 
Since earthquakes are un-predictable, supporters of early warning say it’s the next best thing to prepare people and the commercial sector before the ground rocks. Even a 5-second advance notice can be precious, they contend. 

“You want to get under a sturdy table before things start falling off the wall,” said Uni­versity of California, Berkeley seismologist Richard Allen, a project participant. “We don’t want people to start running out of buildings.” 
Early warning is designed to sense the first pulses of en­ergy after a fault breaks and estimate the magnitude based on limited information. This is possible because of the different speeds at which seismic waves travel. 
A sprawling web of under­ground sensors can detect the faster-moving and less damag­ing primary or “P’’ waves before the secondary “S’’ waves that can cause buildings to pancake. A warning is issued ahead of the arrival of the stronger waves. 
How much warning — a few seconds to tens of seconds — depends on the distance from the epicenter. The farther away, the more lead time. 
Project chief Doug Given of the U.S. Geological Survey ticked off actions that can be taken: Trains can be slowed or stopped. Air traffic controllers can halt takeoffs and landings. Power plants and factories can close valves. 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, September 21, 2011 

INSIDE COLUMN 


The A&L blues 
I’m all out of the obligatory “congratu­lations” to each of my friends who have accepted job offers at some of the world’s top corporations. They’ve been wooed by companies offering them $60,000 starting salaries with full benefits Molly Sammon and the chance to live in the trendy Sports Writer areas of America’s biggest cities. Lately, these congratula­tions I’ve dished out are accompanied by an equally obnoxious eye-roll, the kind you can see from 20 feet away. I’d like to offer them another deep and heart felt congratulations, a congratulations that they’ve befriended a lowly Arts and Let­ters major who might need some transi­tion housing for a year. 
Each job accepted by my accounting major friends is the promise of another Potterybarn leather sectional somewhere on the Upper-East Side where I can sleep when my downtown studio apart­ment’s heating breaks down or the place becomes infested with mutant cock­roaches. Congratulations on your new job and your new roommate, my newly rich friends. 
I will not be the good roommate, either 
— I’ll be the annoying one. I’ll ask to be everyone’s plus one to all the fancy cocktail parties after hours just so I have an excuse to change out of sweatpants. I will wake up at 10 a.m., only to eat cereal and watch Regis and Kelly, specifically looking for inspiration from Regis (a fellow social science major from Notre Dame) and wondering how he got his big break that pays the bills. Maybe around noon, I will start my shift at Bed, Bath and Beyond. 
I have already picked out which of my dear friends I’m going to have accept an offer of friendly sponsorship while I find my own way without the name “Men­doza” on my diploma. 
My friend Matt just accepted a job working in New York City, with a start­ing salary that will probably allow him to buy his own Rolls Royce by his 23rd birthday. He’s guaranteed Brooks Broth­ers suits and a leather briefcase, full of papers that look important, and probably are. Years from now, when he’s married to his third Swedish supermodel wife, if he’s feeling particularly charitable and wants to leave Park Avenue for the day, hopefully he’ll be able to reach out to my children and take them to the Central Park Zoo or to Yankees games, because I certainly won’t be able to spoil them as he could. When they ask me why Uncle Matt is so rich, I’ll tell them the truth. 
“Well, children, Uncle Matt majored in Finance, like all good Domers should. He resisted the promise of a beautiful arts education where you can throw away the graph paper and the calculator used for playing games in high school biol­ogy. Where instead of doing accounting problems and natural logs, you get to read really great books by the world’s most fascinating people that expand your mind and then write papers about them. How could you resist something like that?” 
Hopefully, they will decide to major in whatever they like most, but I should start saving now to show them someone can make money and be an Arts and Let­ters major. But just in case, I better check if the Bed, Bath, and Beyond down the street from Matt’s potential apartment is hiring a new night-shift manager start­ing this May. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Molly Sammon at      msammon@nd.edu 


Manipulation 
I had served as a teaching assistant in philosophy for some time before it oc­curred to me to wonder what it was, ex­actly, that I was teaching. The answer, when I finally found it, was rather more sinister than I had expected. 
Alasdair Ma­cIntyre, in his After Virtue, reminds us that “some of the college-educated public are haunted by vague cartoon-like memories of Philosophy 100” 

— and, for this, we teachers are surely to blame: full of a drunken glee, we frighten our stu­dents with brains in vats and exhort them to embrace their inner Cartesian demons — with­out bothering to teach them the context that would make these fantasies more than intermittently unsettling. For bet­ter or worse, however, we occasionally sober and insist that our discipline is serious business: MacIntyre admits that “professors of philosophy do from time to time seek to wear the clothes of relevance” — and these clothes are those of the moral philosopher. 
But moral philosophy is hardly a dis­cipline that has reached anything like a consensus. “The most striking feature of contemporary moral utterance is that so much of it is used to express dis­agreements,” writes MacIntyre, “and the most striking feature of the debates in which these disagreements are ex­pressed is their interminable charac­ter.” And so — after mentioning Kant and Mill — we introduce our students to the moral debates that rock our so­ciety: those over abortion, euthanasia, gay marriage, health care reform and the like. And because these debates have proven both profound and inter­minable, we do not pick sides: Reveling in our impartiality, we marshal what we take to be the very best arguments on each side of each debate, leaving our students to decide for themselves. 
And our students love this: After months grappling with the present King of France, they finally recognize some­thing that just might have bearing on their lives. They throw themselves into these debates: In discussion, they shout at one another with obvious delight as they hurl utility or autonomy across the room. And we teachers swell with pride in our students and in ourselves: they are no longer chained to the suburbs in which they were raised — no longer chained, that is, to the lessons of their parents — for we have forged them into men and women eager to think for themselves, to question all that had, until now, seemed unassailable. Soon, no doubt, they will even be driving hy­brid cars. 
Standing behind this method of teaching — a method especially typi­cal of courses in applied ethics — is the implication of objectivity: We teachers 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Children might or might not be a blessing, but to create them and then fail them was surely damnation.” 
Lois McMaster Bujold 
U.S. author 
present the arguments on both sides without evaluation — a task left to the students themselves. Because we do not force them to take one side or the other, we assume that they will seek the bet­ter side: With enough discussion — in the classroom at first, though later in politics — they will make salient points, invent new arguments and, sooner or later, find the truth. 
That this method is problematic, however, should strike us immediately: Even if our students do seek the better side — rather than, say, the side that would benefit them most were it victori­ous — our society lacks an impersonal moral criterion that would allow our students to compare the arguments of the two sides in a way that is not utterly arbitrary. “There seems to be no ratio­nal way of securing moral agreement in our culture,” writes MacIntyre — an in­sight that is as profound as it is, in hind­sight, obvious. 
Moral concepts — right and wrong, for example — seem to present imper­sonal obligations: To say that some ac­tion is right or wrong is not just to com­mand or forbid it — that is, to express a subjective will — but also to offer some reason for commanding or forbidding it — that is, to state an objective fact. Consider the example of abortion: If I say to you that “I would not have you abort your child,” I have offered you only an expression of my subjective will — one which, if our wills differ, you will blithely ignore — but, if I say to you that “abortion is wrong,” I have implied that there is an objective reason for anyone to avoid abortion — and you may ask me, with either curiosity or anger, what the reason is. Even if you ignore me, how­ever, you will not do so blithely: You will have recognized that my words make a claim upon you — and that your defi­ance of my words contradicts them. The difference in meaning between the two statements is as obvious as the differ­ence between your responses to them. 
If you do ask me the reason that abor­tion is wrong, I will likely answer that “it ignores the dignity of your child” or that “it shows no courage” or even that “it violates the law of Almighty God” — but your response is likely to be that these reasons do not matter to you, that you can make no sense of them. That, whatever I say, you have the right to do with your body what you will. What I implied were objective reasons — ones that would convince everyone — were subjective after all. Whether intention­ally or not, I was using moral language in order to express my subjective will 
— in order, that is, to cause you to act in a certain way even though I could not offer you a convincing reason to do so. 
We live, MacIntyre argues, in an emo­tivist society — one in which the loss of an impersonal moral criterion has caused moral language to degenerate from the statement of objective fact into the expression of subjective emotion. In such a society, all moral language is fundamentally manipulative: “[E]valu­ative utterance can in the end have no point or use but the expression of my own feelings or attitudes and the trans­formation of the feelings and attitudes of others. I cannot genuinely appeal to impersonal criteria, for there are no im­personal criteria. I may think that I so appeal and others may think that I so appeal, but these thoughts will always be mistakes. The sole reality of distinc­tively moral discourse is the attempt of one will to align the attitudes, feelings, preference and choices of another with its own.” The moral language of an emo­tivist society is manipulative because its meaning — which promises one an objective reason to act in a certain way — has become detached from its use — to cause one to act in that way despite there being no such reason. When I use moral language, in other words, I con­trol your actions by promising a reason that does not, in fact, exist. And this is true whether I think such a reason ex­ists or not. 
This argument woke me from my dogmatic slumber. If it is sound — and I confess that I know of no other way to explain the interminable and pro­found moral debates that rock our so­ciety — then we, as teachers, have de­luded ourselves: All of our impartiality cannot yield objectivity. In shouting at one another across the room, our stu­dents do not find the truth: They merely shout at one another. If they do forge a consensus, its foundation is not reason but force: Whichever side shouts louder wins — for there is, as MacIntyre re­veals, no other criterion for victory. 
In teaching our students of the moral debates that rock our society, we are teaching them to manipulate one an­other: Since we possess no impersonal moral criterion, none of the arguments that we teach our students can actually deliver the reasons that they promise. And so, if one student uses an argument to convince a second who previously disagreed with her, the first student merely overwhelms the second by sheer force of will — even if the second does not realize it. 
This logic is the beginning of wisdom, not the end: We should ultimately teach our students to change the very ques­tions that they ask, to rebuild their so­ciety and themselves upon a genuinely impersonal moral criterion — not upon how they subjectively feel, that is, but rather upon who they objectively are. In the meantime, however, our duty is clear: If we should not teach our stu­dents to manipulate one another, we should not teach them applied ethics. We should teach them instead to guard themselves against manipulation — to see, that is, the fundamentally manipu­lative character of our society for what it is. To do less is to fail them as teach­ers. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his fourth year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. Listen to his radio show on WVFI on Sundays at 2 p.m. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

WEEKLY POLL 
What kind of phone do you own? 
Android Blackberry iPhone Dumb phone 

Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 



Wednesday, September 21, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 



It’s time for Palestinian statehood 
Just this week, Palestine announced that it would seek full membership in the United Nations. If accepted, this move would force the international community to recognize their right to exist as a sovereign state from Israel. 
I am well aware of the arguments Brian Kaneb against recognizing Palestine as a state. Guest Their government is Columnist made up of two politi­cal parties — Fatah and Hamas, which the United States classifies as a terror­ist organization. Though the two have technically joined forces, many expect them to continue to fight against Zion­ism. Some would also argue that this would strain our relationship with Israel, which opposes the Palestinian statehood. They believe Israel is Amer­ica’s most strategic ally, and rightfully so. While these are genuine concerns, I believe they are blown out of propor­tion. 
The most fundamental reason why America should recognize Palestine is simply that they deserve it. The Pal­estine Liberation Organization (PLO), which is recognized by Israel as the official representative of the Palestin­ian people, has quite literally spent decades fighting for freedom from Israel. Since the 1970s, they have been undergoing a general transformation for the better. One of the best exam­ples of this was the 1993 Oslo Accords. This meeting was unprecedented — not only was it the first true act of diplomacy between the two govern­ments, but it also resulted in then-PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat “recognizing the right of the State of Israel to exist in peace and security.” Your average Westerner takes Israel’s existence for granted. Israel is surrounded by Mus­lim countries, most of which are not its allies. The fact that someone as in­fluential as Arafat recognized Israel’s right to existence was a humongous positive step. 
Just a few years later, in 1998, they were able to convince the United Na­tions to allow them to participate in General Assembly debates. Though the jury is still out on the reconcilia­tion between Hamas and Fatah, the PLO application to the United Nations seems to represent progress. 
The biggest indication of this is their flexibility with Palestine’s potential borders. They are not seeking the destruction of Israel, but rather the ability to govern both the Gaza Strip 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


ND to the ACC 
Conference realignment’s coming in hot this week, and once again, Notre Dame’s the best-looking girl at the high school dance. For the sake of the Univer­sity, we need to end up in the ACC over the Big Ten. 
It’s much more exciting as a Notre Dame fan to envision an ACC schedule. Michigan and Michigan State are iconic, and Wisconsin’s enticing, but I would rather get dragged naked over a cactus then get forced to watch low-energy games against mediocre state school programs (see Illinois, Minnesota, Indiana, etc.). On the contrary, we could stoke the fire against perennial powers Miami, Florida State, Clemson and Virginia Tech, while keeping in touch with familiar foes Pitt and BC. FSU? The U? We’d forget Sparty and Purdue real quick and never look back. 
Let’s not forget that behind this whole circus are actual universities where real people go to get authentic degrees. If Notre Dame wants to associate with univer­sities that share a similar commitment to academics, the move needs to be to the ACC. U.S. News rankings show that as it stands, the new ACC has seven top 40 universities. The new Big 10 only has two. Where it matters — in the classroom 
— that’s like Tyson fighting an infant. 
We can hide under a rock in the Midwest, where everyone already knows we’re an elite academic institution, or conquer the entire Eastern seaboard. Out there, some absurd people actually consider Georgetown our Catholic equal. Trust me, I had to deal with it growing up. But seriously, the Notre Dame name rings much louder out here in fly-over states than it does in civilized America (the East coast). Let’s go raise our visibility and enlighten the unenlightened. 
Jack Swarbrick and Fr. John Jenkins, if improving the energy of our program, the academic quality of our opponents and the long-term reputation of our beloved institution are wrong, then I don’t wanna be right. Also, a jumbotron wouldn’t hurt, either. 
In Notre Dame, 

James Kachadoorian 
senior off campus Sept. 19 


Wanted: You 
Dear Notre Dame Boys, 

This is it: the Friday of the Walsh Hall Catholic School Girl Dance. One of the most awe-inspiring SYRs to attend on campus. And our equally awe-inspiring (and extremely attractive) roommate needs a date. 
Requirements: 

1.
 Sophomore or older (what girl doesn’t like older men?) 

2.
 At least 5 feet 11 inches (tall, dark and handsome preferred) 

3.
 Able to have fun 


4.
 Must enjoy puppies and long walks on South Quad This is not much to ask. We promise a night to be remembered, and a chance to 


be “that guy” who took the chance to get WILD with Walsh. Don’t let us down! Please contact Brittany Dunn-Pirio, at 571-451-6996 or bdunnpir@nd.edu 
Brittany Dunn-Pirio 
junior Walsh Hall Sept. 19 

and West Bank. By doing so, the PLO is affirming Arafat’s words and holding true to its promises. Even in the midst of general political turmoil in the Middle East, they recognize the neces­sity to approach this situation with a balanced approach. Of course, fighting will go on even if we do recognize Pal­estine. One simple vote will not change millennia of history, but it can help set the stages for that relative peace. 
Ironically, America’s current policy toward Palestine is making the situa­tion worse. On one hand, we attempt to portray ourselves as impartial media­tors. On the other hand, our officials have always sided with Israel over Pal­estine. In reality, we play favorites. As necessary as this may have been in the past, it is time for America to change its approach. Ignoring the voices of Palestinians only incites more hatred and violence; just put yourself in their shoes. 
While unprovoked violence is never justified, it is still necessary to search for the motivations behind terrorist attacks in the region. In my opinion, much of the violence stems from the fact that the Palestinian people feel oppressed. If Israel and its allies could learn to compromise on Palestinian statehood, I genuinely believe there would be a decrease in tensions. 
Another obvious concern is Israel’s reaction, which obviously will not be positive. They have a mutual distrust of one another which often leads to intense violence and sometimes even war. The Israeli government fears being perceived as soft. In this way, voting for Palestinian statehood will not help our relationship with Israel. Unfortunately, this is a necessary con­cession. Though Israel will obviously be dissatisfied, they will remain a strong ally for years to come. Wavering away from Israel on one decision will not kill our relationship. We currently provide them with billions of dollars in foreign aid each year; they are depen­dent on us. It simply is not in Israel’s best interest to clash with America. 
Although the decision is undoubtedly difficult, Palestinian statehood is in­evitable in due time. The only question left is, “How will history remember us if we vote for Palestinian statehood?” 
Brian Kaneb is a sophomore. He can be reached at bkaneb1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

A true Victory March 
In response to “Rally All of Notre Dame” (Sept. 19) I could not agree more with Ms. Wargel and Mr. Gaffney about the necessity to change the lyr­ics of the Notre Dame Victory March in order to keep with the Catholic values and mission of this University. How­ever, I would take the modifications several steps further. 
In one of the verses, for example, it states “we will fight in every game.” The act of fighting is contrary to Cath­olic values of peace and love of neigh­bor. What is more, to say that “Old Notre Dame will win over all” denotes an oppressive attitude toward athletes and students at other universities, who are all still children of God. 
In fact, as a Catholic university, should our victory march even be centered on a football game? Shouldn’t it instead be a Salvation March, the true victory in life? And speaking of football, a violent game by nature, this seems contrary to the values of peace and love previously mentioned. In­stead, I believe we should show greater support for more peaceful sports such as badminton and kite flying. 
For all you slow readers out there, keep the Victory March as is. After all, it is our sons — football players 
— marching on to victory, and last time I checked, the roster is just a bit male-oriented. Not everything needs to be politically correct, not every word needs to be approved by every special interest and tree-hugging group. Ap­preciate and respect tradition, plain and simple. 
Instead of complaining about song lyrics, how about we start focusing on what it takes to have a 10-2 season with a bowl win on top of that? 
Godspeed, 
Brett Ubl 
sophomore Fisher Hall Sept. 20 


While her loyal sons and daughters ... 
Following the largely negative re­sponse to our Sept. 19 letter (“Rally all of Notre Dame”), we feel we must clarify several points: 
1.
 We love the Notre Dame Victory March, and yes, we sing it — loudly. We are simply suggesting a way to make it better. 

2.
 We do not find the Notre Dame Victory March to be harmful to or marginalizing of women per se. None­theless, it does not reflect the total­ity of the student body or its athletic teams, which is the purpose of a fight song. 

3.
 We recognize that we are not creating world peace or addressing the plethora of gender issues that pervade Notre Dame’s campus. This does not mean that the gender-exclusivity of the Victory March is unimportant. Like we stated in our original letter, updating 


the fight song is an opportunity for the University to move forward on these issues. 
4.
 For those who think the lyrics to the Victory March are a non-issue, we submit that the hostility towards our letter proves otherwise. Both the on-line comments and printed responses consisted almost entirely of insults, not legitimate counter-arguments. 

5.
 For those who are apathetic to up­dating the lyrics of the Victory March: Instead of asking “Why change?” ask “Why not?” 


Cody Gaffney 
senior Keough Hall 
Kyla Wargel 
senior Lyons Hall Sept. 20 




Maija Gustin 
Scene Editor 

Subkirke is a bright spot in South Bend’s musical landscape. The resident concert venue at the South Bend Christian Reformed Church (SBCRC) has been growing steadily since it began in 2009 and now brings small, mostly indie, bands in nearly every week. 
Yes, Sub­kirke is held in a church. But don’t be fooled 
— just be­cause it’s a church does not mean that only Chris­tian rock groups come to perform. 

Subkirke has hosted notable acts such as Horse Feathers, BowerBirds, Bon Iver’s S. Carey and Maps & At­lases. You may not often see people from the iTunes Top 10 playing at Subkirke, but the venue has so far brought in some of the most popular and well-regarded in­die acts from around the country. 
The team at the SBCRC considers Sub­kirke, derived from the church’s acro­nym, a part of their ministry. In this case, though, the ministry is not meant to preach to people, but rather to provide the local community with top-notch music in a welcoming environment at a great price. 
They believe in a commitment to the arts, generally, and the power of the arts to open your eyes and move your soul. In addition to bringing in these bands to play for the community, SBCRC also frequently hosts art exhibits in its building, which you can check out before or after the con­cert. 
Concerts are held in the church’s sanc­tuary. The room is spacious yet intimate and has great acoustics for the artists. The room is full of chairs and pews to accommodate large crowds, but it is not un­common for the masses to move to the stage and stand mere feet from the band for a good show. 
When you walk into the church, you can immedi­ately tell how dedicated everyone is to being there. These people are there to have fun and listen to great music, and that’s it. The environ­ment is electric, and the concerts always attract 
sizable crowds of fans. 
Though the bands 
that visit Subkirke 
may not be radio fa­
vorites, the venue 
makes sure to bring 
in a variety of acts, 
from folk-inspired 
to alternative, that 
hail from all parts 
of the country. 
The Subkirke 
team knows its 
music and al­
ways manages 
to find the best-
hidden (and 
not-so-hidden) 
acts around. 

The bands always seem genu­
inely excited to be playing and devoted to put­ting on the best show for the grateful audience. When a band is willing to play for a small, intimate audi­ence like at Subkirke, you know they really want to be there. Being so close to the band as they perform, you 

can’t help but feel a connection.
 At the Maps & Atlases concert two weeks ago, Sub­kirke brought in Notre Dame student band Ratboy to open for the Chicago-based “math rock” band. As soon as Maps walked onto the stage, the crowd surged for­ward and spent the entirety of the set standing so close to the band that you could practically touch them. Fans were dancing to the music and singing along with their favorite songs, completely wrapped up in the performance. 

Most of Subkirke’s acts inspire this kind of passion from the crowd, be they old fans or newcomers to the music, and the $12 ($10 if ordered ahead of time) tick­et is a small price to pay for that experience. Whether you know the band or not, Subkirke is worth checking out — you won’t find anything quite like it in the rest of South Bend. The team at Subkirke is there to provide a great night of music for the crowd and they deliver every time. So take a chance on an unknown band, or look to see if your favorite indie band will be mak­ing its way there soon. Coming up is popular Michigan band Breathe Owl Breathe on Sept. 30 and Frontier Ruckus on Oct. 28. 
Subkirke is located at 1855 N. Hickory Road in South Bend. Check out subkirke.com for upcoming acts, tick­ets and more information on the venue. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 




Wednesday, September 21, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 


I am a big fan of ease and ef­ficiency.  My motto is “if you can get there faster, why not?” This is probably a result of my constant miscalculation of the time it takes to get places and always needing to make up time, but it works for me. This is why the black metal fences that have sprung up across campus have really been killing me. 
Aside from the fact that they really hamper my walking, they’re also just not very attractive.  They stick out like sore thumbs on a campus that loves to build with yellowish sandstone bricks.  I know people always say that black goes with everything, but on this count, I can’t agree.  Their black metal spokes are jarring and seem so out of place to me every time I see them. 
But aesthetics aside, the bar­riers cramp my style constantly. I returned from abroad to find myself unable to cross the grassy knoll in front of McGlinn Hall to return home.  When I walked with my friends to South Dining Hall from Duncan Hall, I had to reroute myself in order to avoid the new black blockade. 
I was stunned.  I didn’t under­stand why these new black fences were keeping me from my in­tended destinations. I just wanted to crash in my room and take a quick nap in between classes or make myself a delicious wrap at SDH while catching up with my friends. And sure, the fences didn’t really add much time to my walk, but they did add some time. And when you are trying to beat the dinnertime rush or catch up on lost sleep, every second counts. 
And then, I returned to school this year to find even more fences blocking my paths.  I tried to round the corner of Alumni near Main Circle, but found my way blocked.  I tried to walk to Ryan Hall and found a fence in the grass directly in front of the door. These new fences dot campus spo­radically, yet always seem to find me when I am in a rush. 
I’ll paint you a picture.  Last Thursday was a busy day for me, or at least busy end of the day. I had class in Debartolo until 4:45 p.m., which usually runs late, then a meeting in CoMo at 5 p.m., and then a mass in Ryan Hall at 5:30 
p.m. which I had to attend as an Andrews Scholar.  I had planned 

Mary Claire O’Donnell 
Scene Writer 

my routes to and from each event and was ready to speed walk. 
I’ll admit, I’m a pretty good speed walker — I once made it to Debartolo from McGlinn in 2.5 minutes because I woke up at 9:35 
a.m. for a 9:35 a.m. class.  I can weave my way through a crowd with ease, but I need good mo­mentum. One roadblock can take my hare’s pace down to that of a tortoise. A tortoise that won’t win that footrace. 
And so, as I crisscrossed cam­pus that day, I was a woman on a mission. I had deadlines to meet. I was making it to mass on time because I had not worn a dress all day for nothing. But as I cut across the lawn in front of Ryan Hall with a minute to spare, I found my way unexpectedly blocked. Black metal stood in between me and an on-time mass arrival. 
Luckily, mass started late that day.  But this has not always hap­pened. Those pesky fences have made me late for more than one meeting, always cropping up at the worst times. 
I understand that footpath traf­fic can create ruts in the grass that my landscaping uncle would probably cry over.  But they don’t always.  Also, this is a college campus, students walk places. The thing that really gets me, however, is that the majority of these fences can be found on or near South and West Quads.  Are we just that unruly over there that you need to contain us? 
Also, the fences don’t prevent me walking on those grassy patches, just in one direction.  I can walk across the grass from McGlinn to Pangborn, but not from Duncan to South. Is this a subtle message to the Highlanders that they spend too much time at South? 
Whatever the answers to these questions, I just would like to lodge my opinion about our new landscaping ideas.  If you just didn’t want people walking on the grass on West Quad, I would like to offer a different solution from these fences. 
Have you ever noticed how pristine the grass on God Quad is? That’s because everyone is terrified to walk on it.  Next year at Frosh-O, start telling the fresh­men that if they step on the lush green lawns of South Quad, the football team won’t finish with a winning record. 
Give it a few years and no one will touch that grass, with or without a fence. 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 



LAUREN KALINOSKI & LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 


It’s Tiger postseason 
Amidst all the talk of World Series contenders, one Ameri­can League team is consistent­ly omitted from the discussion. 
They have an ace who is as easy a pick for the AL Cy Young award as you will ever see and has a serious shot of becom­ing the first non-posi ­tion player to win the AL MVP since Den­nis Eckers­ley in 1992. 
They have a perennial MVP candidate at first base who, for the first time during his stint with the club, has protection in the slot behind him in the lineup. 
They have a closer who has converted 46-of-46 save oppor­tunities to highlight a bullpen that has held leads as well as anyone during the second half. 
The players? Justin Verland­er, Miguel Cabrera and Jose Valverde, re­spectively. 
The team? The Detroit Tigers. 
The 2011 of 12 consecutive starts (not decisions, starts) dominat­ing the league with a 24-5 record and 2.29 ERA, it would be an extremely stiff challenge for an opposing lineup to beat him in a play­off game. In a five-game se­ries, he would pitch twice, and in a seven-game series, he could take the mound three times. 

The argument against the Tigers all season was that someone outside of Verland­er needed to step up. Behind their ace, it was hard to find consistent starting pitching. Detroit found its No. 2 starter in July when it ac­quired Doug Fister from Se­attle. Cleveland was praised for making a bigger splash when they added Ubaldo Jimenez, but Fister has been much more effective since the deals were made. Fis­ter is 6-1 with a 2.12 ERA in nine starts with Detroit, compared to Jimenez’s 4.56 ERA since joining the Tribe. Surrounding Cabrera’s name in the Tigers lineup are former Twins leftfielder Delmon Young, an August addition after Brennan Boesch suffered a thumb in-

Associated Press 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. — Illinois is 3-0 for the first time since 2001 and looks like a team to be taken seriously in the Big Ten. 
The No. 24 Illini entered the Top 25 this week for the first time in three years after their 17-14 victory over then-No. 22 Arizona State. 
A win over Western Michi­gan this week would give Il­linois its first 4-0 start since the 1951 national champion­ship season, and the Illini have a chance to be 6-0 when Ohio State comes calling Oct. 15. 
“They’ve caught my atten­tion,” Wisconsin coach Bret Bielema said Tuesday on the Big Ten coaches’ call. 
Wins over Arkansas State and South Dakota State to start the season didn’t raise any eyebrows. The win over Arizona State was impres­sive because the defense, a major question mark enter­ing the season, carried the day while Illinois’ offense generated just 240 yards. 
“There’s no question, you play a Pac­12 opponent and beat them, it was great for our 


AL Central jury that 
In the postseason, the two 
champions has since 
most important keys are 
are often left proven to 
strong starting pitching 
out of World be season-
and timely hitting. 
Series pre-endi ng, 
dictions be­cause they are in the worst divi­sion in base­ball (since the 2006 NL West) and they are not the Yankees or Red Sox. 
Tigers manager Jim Leyland recently lambasted a mem­ber of the national media who questioned the legitimacy of the AL Central heading into October. 
“You’re looking for some­thing to take something away from [the team],” Leyland said. “I don’t want to talk about that. That’s [expletive.] That’s total [expletive.]” 
Sounds like a manager with a chip on his shoulder and a team with something to prove, doesn’t it? 
While the Tigers are un­likely to enter the playoffs with the league’s best record (they trailed the Yankees for home-field advantage throughout the AL playoffs by 4.5 games entering play Tuesday), they are arguably the most dreaded team to compete against in a short series. 
With Verlander, the winner ig nat ed hitter Vic­tor Mar­
and  for­ 
mer  Indi­ 
ans  des­ 

tinez and shortstop Jhonny Peralta. 
Young is hitting .285 with five home runs and 21 RBIs since joining Detroit, while Peralta is currently hit­ting .302, which would be a career-high, with 19 home runs and 81 RBIs. Martinez has shown why the Tigers chose him over Adam Dunn in the offseason, as he has hit .324 with 11 home runs and 94 RBIs, compared to Dunn’s .165, 11 and 41, re­spectively. 
In the postseason, the two most important keys are strong starting pitching and timely hitting. Many do not realize it yet, but the Tigers have both. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the observer. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


NCAA FOOTBALL 


Illini prove to be threat in Big Ten 
pr og r a m , ” Illini coach  “They’ve caught my attention.”  round pick Corey Liuget.  
Ron  Zook  The  defense,  
said.  “Our  Bret Bielema  allowing  under  
guys  went  Wisconsin coach  11 points a game,  
into  that  hasn’t  been  
game  know- scored  on  after  
ing  they  any  of  Illinois’  
could win if  four  turnovers  
they did the  and  has  forced  

things the coaches asked eight takeaways that have led them to do.” to 24 points. 
Illinois beat a ranked non-“I knew defensively we’d be 
sacks. He also had an inter­
ception and forced another. Glenn Foster has made a smooth move from end to tackle to help compensate for the loss of first-
proved as a passer. He’s com­pleted 33 of 46 passes (72 percent) for 504 yards. He’s thrown 16 touchdown passes against two interceptions the last 10 games. 
“The defense lost good players, but they’re big-play oriented,” Bielema said. “And their quarterback makes special things happen.” 
A.J. Jenkins, who caught Scheelhaase’s game-winning 16-yard touchdown pass against Arizona State in the fourth quarter, is second in the Big Ten with 7.3 catches and 107 yards a game. 
Jason Ford and Scheel­haase lead a rushing attack averaging 223 yards a game. 
Illinois has a favor­able confer­ence sched­ule, with home games conference team for the first time in 10 tries and is on a four-game win streak that started with a 38-14 victo­ry over Baylor in the Texas Bowl. 
Bielema said the win over Arizona State, a team the Badgers beat 20-19 in Madi­son last year, showed Illinois is a legitimate Big Ten con­tender. 
“We beat (ASU) on a blocked extra point, and I think they had a good team a year ago,” Bielema said. “It speaks vol­umes about how good Illinois is at this point.” 
An Illinois defense that lost three players to the a lot better than people would give us credit for,” said Zook, who is 54-59 in seven sea­sons at Il­linois and has spent some years fending off speculation about his future with the Illinois. “We lost guys who were good 
against

“I knew defensively we’d 
Northwest ­

be a lot better than people 
ern, Ohio 

would give us credit for.” 
State, Michi­gan and Wis-Ron Zook consin at Illinois coach home and In­
diana, Pur­due, Penn State and Minnesota on the road. 
“Of the 
eight Big Ten games, four at home, you probably would pick the four that we have at home if you have your druthers,” Zook said. “I’m not going to apol­ogize for our schedule after the one we played the last five or six years.” 
NFL draft sacked Sun Devils quarterback Brock Oswei­ler six times and intercepted two of his passes. Sophomore linebacker Jonathan Brown was named Big Ten defen­sive player of the week after making seven tackles and 1.5 
players, but we knew we had some pretty good play­ers replacing them. The big­gest question I had was how soon the defense would come around.” 
Sophomore quarterback Nathan Scheelhaase has im-

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
Home For Rent in Historic Wayne St. Area 
3BR,DR,LRw/firepl,1bath,fin bsmnt,gar,all appl 
Email cmack@stanleyclark.org 


PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t 
go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit ND’s website at: http:// 
pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

WANTED 
ADOPTION: ND/SMC family hoping to adopt again. Love, opportunity, security, devoted dad, at-home mom. No pressure or commitment. We work with Adoption professionals who can vouch for home study and FBI clearance checks. Contact Atty:Steven Kirsh (800)333-5736, or feel free to e-mail us directly: eneadoptagain@gmail.com Facebook.com/adoptionEJEllen 
TEXT or CALL: 317.473.7635 
ATTN:ND Groups and 
Organizations. 

Fundraising opportunity. 
Easy money starting now. 
Email carrier539@gmail.com 
“Why don’t I strap on my job helmet and squeeze down into a job cannon and fire off into Jobland where jobs grow on little jobbies.” - Charlie Kelly 
“I got really, really nervous. I just started eating cheese.” - Charlie Kelly 
“Just remember, when you 

control the mail, you control... information.”- Newman There’s two kinds of people in this world when you boil it all down. You got your talkers and you got your doers. Most people are just talkers, all they do is talk. 
But when it is all said and done, it’s the doers that change this world. And when they do that, they change us, and that’s why we 
never forget them. 
There’s your shout-out, doer. 
Every sinner has a future. 

NHL 




DeBoer joins Devils with hopes of restoring order, success 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. — The Peter DeBoer era with the New Jersey Devils is officially only three practices old. But so far, the returning Devils like what they see in their new coach. 
“Obviously, it’s still pretty early, but we all like the type of style that he wants us to play,” said veteran defenseman Andy Greene, who re-signed with the Devils after testing the free-agent market. “It’s fast paced and up tempo, and that’s a style I really like. It encourages us to play freer and that’s a plus.” 
For the first time since 1996, the Devils, who have won three Stanley Cup titles since 1995, did not make the postseason last year. 
DeBoer is here to restore or­der. 
“It’s only been a couple of days, but so far, I like it,” sec-ond-year forward Jacob Josef-son said. “I like the high-tempo practices. I like the fast pace. It makes you feel like you’ve been on the ice for a long time, but you really haven’t. Obviously, he has a gameplan that he be­lieves in and it’s up to us play­ers to get into it.” 
Josefson likes DeBoer’s style, because it encourages more open ice skating, something that the 20-year-old Swedish player feels is his strength. 
“There’s a lot of skating and skating is a big part of my game,” said Josefson, the Dev­ils’ first-round draft selection in 2009 who had three goals and seven assists in 28 games last season. “I really like it. It’s been good, even this early, with the skating and conditioning. He runs good practices.” 
Greene likes the way DeBoer is utilizing the full 40-man con­tingency in the early stages of training camp, breaking each day up into different sessions. 
“He wants you to be involved right away and that’s a good sign,” said Greene, who had four goals and 19 assists last season. “The attitude is good. The intensity is good.” 


That’s a good sign. Because starting the way they started last season isn’t going to sit well with DeBoer or upper manage­ment. 
Under first-year coach and former player, John MacLean, the Devils stumbled to a 9-22­2 mark. Team president and general manager Lou Lamori­ello seemed to give MacLean, at one time the all-time lead­ing scorer in franchise history, a longer leash than usual. But by December, he had no choice but to make a change. MacLean was fired, and was replaced by Jacques Lemaire, who led the Devils to their first Stanley Cup in 1995. 
The team played well for Le­maire, winning 28 of 48 games down the stretch. But the late charge couldn’t stop the Devils from missing the playoffs. 
After some thought, Lemaire ultimately decided to retire once again, paving the way for DeBoer, who was previously the coach of the Florida Panthers from 2008-2011. DeBoer led the Panthers to a 30-40-12 record and was dismissed at the end of the season. 
“We all know how the first half of the season went last year,” Greene said. “We’ve put it all behind us and we’re start­ing new. It’s a fresh new year with a new coach. I know we’re all motivated and hungry. The playoffs are a long way away. 
“But, we’re determined to get back there.” 
Greene said that he encour­ages DeBoer’s positive energy and personality. 
“You can see the intensity from the first day,” Greene said. “You know what he wants and he demands the energy. I think it’s a good way to be. Of course, winning helps and makes things easier. We know we have to win this year.” 
But that’s a tough task. The Devils are tenants in a difficult Atlantic Division, where the Flyers made wholesale chang­es, and the Penguins expect to be healthier. Both teams fin­ished with 106 points last sea­son, and the Rangers also made the postseason out of that divi­sion last year, with 93 points. 
The Devils, thanks to the slow start, finished with just 81. “Things are definitely looking up this year,” Josefson said. 
The Devils spent most of Tuesday’s practice sessions working on penalty killing and their power play attack. The Devils’ lack of prowess in the power play was one of the main reasons for their horrendous start. 
“Today was totally dedicated to special teams,” DeBoer said. “It was really our third prac­tice day of camp. We did go at it early. That was the plan com­ing out of our coaching meet­ings this summer. It’s obviously an area that we red-flagged as something we want to improve at and we wanted to spend some time on it early.” 
Veteran goaltender Martin Brodeur, who missed Monday’s intrasquad scrimmage with some hamstring soreness, re­turned to practice Tuesday. 
However, Brodeur skated with the minor leaguers from the American Hockey League instead of the main club. Bro­deur will not play when the Devils begin their preseason schedule Wednesday night against the New York Rangers in Albany, N.Y. 

MLB 



Floyd surrenders 3 home runs in 4-3 loss to Indians 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — Gavin Floyd is still looking for his first win in September, and that’s bad news for the sliding Chicago White Sox. 
Floyd gave up three home runs Tuesday and the White Sox lost 4-3 to Cleveland in the opener of a day-night doubleheader. Chi­cago has lost eight of its last nine games. 
Asdrubal Cabrera’s leadoff homer in the fourth gave the In­dians a 3-2 lead. Travis Hafner hit a two-run homer in the first and Kosuke Fukudome added a solo shot in the fifth. 
“I didn’t think they were terri­ble pitches, they just got the right part of the bat on the ball,” said Floyd, who is 0-2 with a 5.16 ERA in four September starts. “They could have just as easily been fly balls, but today they weren’t.” 
Though he didn’t like the re­sult, Chicago manager Ozzie Guillen liked what he saw from Floyd, who gave up four runs and seven hits in 6 2-3 innings. 
“Gavin threw the ball very good,” he said. “He got hurt by the long balls, but it was a good outing for him. Obviously you can’t be happy when you lose the game, but he pitched well.” 
Floyd (12-12) struck out seven and walked none. 
Cleveland and Chicago, which were eliminated from the AL Central race last week when De­troit clinched the division, are battling for second place. The In­dians lead the White Sox by 2½ games. 
Guillen has mixed feelings about playing for the runner-up spot in the division. 
“I think when you’re not in first place, everything else is overrat­ed, but I look at second place for motivation and work for pride,” he said. 
Cleveland starter Fausto Car­mona (7-15) allowed three runs in six innings and won for the first time since Aug. 17. 
Hafner’s two-run homer in the first gave Cleveland the lead, but the White Sox tied it in the sec­ond. 
Chicago’s first four hitters reached in the inning. Singles by A.J. Pierzynski and Alex Rios started the rally. Adam Dunn, batting .165 when the game be­gan, slapped a double down the third-base line that scored Pier­zynski. De Aza’s single to right tied the game. 
De Aza added a run-scoring groundout in the sixth. 
Dunn doubled to left again lat­er in the game, and Guillen said he likes how his designated hit­ter is ending the season. 
“I think he’s been swinging the bat good lately. He’s made good contact and he’s not trying to hit home runs,” Guillen said. “I’m happy. I don’t like to see someone suffering all season long. I think he’s having more fun. Some peo­ple might say it’s too late, but for him it’s good to see him go out there and finish.” 
Cabrera hit a drive to right on an 0-2 pitch to put Cleveland in front again. Cabrera has con­nected in consecutive games to give him 24 on the year, tying the Cleveland record for shortstops set by Jhonny Peralta in 2005. 
Cabrera, who entered Satur­day’s game against Minnesota in an 0-for-20 slump, has eight hits in his last 13 at-bats. 
Joe Smith, Vinnie Pestano and Chris Perez, who recorded his 35th save, blanked Chicago over the final three innings. 


NFL 



Giants prepare for Vick, Eagles 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — The New York Giants’ defensive gameplan for the Philadelphia Eagles is going to have a ma­jor section on stopping Michael Vick. 
As far as Tom Coughlin was concerned Tuesday, the elusive Eagles quarterback is going to play, concussion or not. 
“I expect Michael Vick will play and if he can’t play, I am sure he will,” Coughlin said on a conference call a day after the Giants (1-1) knocked off the St. Louis Rams. 
Vick was knocked out of Sun­day night’s game against Atlanta with a third-quarter concussion, forcing Mike Kafka to finish. Philadelphia coach Andy Reid has not said whether Kafka or Vince Young would start if Vick can’t. 
Either way, Coughlin isn’t de­veloping two gameplans for the Eagles, one with Vick and one without. 
“I think if Michael Vick can play, he will play,” Coughlin re­iterated when asked about Vick a second time in his conference call. 
Defensive end Justin Tuck would like to see Vick play on Sunday in Philadelphia. 
“I mean, that guy is a tremen­dous athlete,” Tuck said after recording 1½ sacks on Monday night in his season debut. “Obvi­ously — as he goes, that offense goes — you always want to beat teams at their best. Me, person­ally, I would love for him to play. I think he brings out the best in us, too.” 
Tuck said the Giants might suffer a letdown if Vick isn’t in the lineup. 
“If he’s playing, we know we have to be on our toes,” Tuck said. “We all know that Phila­delphia is a great football team. We’re going to have a great game regardless of if Vick plays or not.” 
The Giants came close to turn­ing in a great game against Vick in December, building a 31-10 lead with less than eight min­utes to play. 
One of the most memorable meltdowns in NFL history fol­lowed as Vick rallied the Eagles for three touchdown to tie the game and then watched from the sideline as DeSean Jackson scored on a 65-yard punt return on the final play to basically give the Eagles the NFC East title. 



MLB 



Harden chased early as Texas beats Oakland, 7-2 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. — Rich Harden retired the first two batters of the game and need­ed one strike to get the third. Back-to-back singles and a three-run home run by Adri­an Beltre later, the Athletics’ right-hander was headed to­ward his shortest outing of the season. 
Harden was long gone before teammate Michael Taylor’s first major league home run in the fifth. By then, Oakland’s veteran pitcher was just trying to figure out how things got out of hand so quickly. 
Coco Crisp also homered but AL West-leading Texas built a four-run lead against Harden then coasted to a 7-2 win over the A’s on Tuesday night be­hind 15-game winner Derek Holland. 
“They don’t swing at a lot of bad pitches and they work the count a lot,” Harden said of the Rangers. “They foul pitches off and try to work the count in their favor and look for a pitch to hit. A similar approach that the Yankees take. That’s a tough lineup.” 
Harden (4-4) lost consecu­tive starts for the first time this year, done after a season-low three innings in which he was tagged for six runs — five earned — on seven hits, struck out three and walked one. 
Harden, who pitched for Tex­as last season, is winless in five straight outings since beating the Blue Jays on Aug. 19. 
“Just not his best stuff and when he missed he missed over the plate,” said Oakland manager Bob Melvin, who ap­pears close to signing a new deal to remain in Oakland through 2014. “They made him pay for it. It didn’t look like his velocity was down or anything was wrong physically.” 
Beltre drove a 1-1 pitch over the center-field wall with two outs in the first as Texas im­mediately jumped ahead on an uncharacteristically warm night in the Bay Area. First-pitch temperature was 74 de­grees. 
The slugger had batted just 2 for 16 against Harden before connecting for his 28th home run of 2011. It was Beltre’s 20th career homer against Oakland and seventh in as many games. The last eight have come off seven different pitchers. 
A wild pitch in the second allowed Nelson Cruz to score after he doubled leading off the inning. 
Texas scored twice more in the third to make it 6-0 and chase Harden, whose start was his shortest since the Rangers knocked him out af­ter only 2 1-3 innings on Aug. 7, 2010. 
“The pitch to Beltre was in, maybe not enough,” Harden said. “He was looking for that. 
I don’t know, I’m disappointed in my performance tonight.” 
Michael Young hit an RBI single in the third that gave him 200 hits for the sixth sea­son and drove in another run in the eighth, Mike Napoli also singled in a run and Texas won for the seventh time in eight games and eighth in 10. 
The first-place Rangers maintained their five-game division lead over Los Angeles after the Angels won 10-6 at Toronto. Reigning AL champi­on Texas is 12-5 in September. The Rangers magic number to win the AL West is down to four. 
Taylor hit his first major league home run in the fifth 
— his 18th career at-bat — for Oakland’s lone run against Holland (15-5), who won his fourth straight decision. 
Elvis Andrus singled in the eighth to extend his hitting streak to 13 games for Texas, which moved to 24 games over .500 for its best mark since sit­ting 31 over in 1999. 
Texas is 90-65 for its second-best record in franchise histo­ry through 154 games. The ‘99 team was 91-63 at this stage. 
Holland allowed one run and two hits over seven innings. He struck out seven and walked three while earning his sec­ond win in three starts against Oakland this season. 
Crisp homered in the ninth for the A’s against Michael Kirkman. 
Texas came out swinging a night after Rangers manager Ron Washington attended the “Moneyball” premiere and reminisced about his special days as Oakland’s third base coach. 
Cruz remained in the des­ignated hitter role while he nurses a strained left ham­string. 


Washington said Cruz would likely DH again Wednesday night and then the manager would decide whether to use him in the outfield as soon as Thursday’s series finale with the A’s or wait until back home in Texas. 




Cavanaugh routs PW in another shutout victory
Welsh Fam, Ryan roll to 2-0; Breen-Philips scores first touchdown in two years but loses to Howard 
By JONATHAN WARREN 
Sports Writer 
Cavanaugh continued its stout defensive play in a 12-0 victory over Pasquerilla West Tuesday. 
The Chaos (2-0) have not al­lowed a score yet, recording two shutouts in their first two games. 
Cavanaugh took the lead for good midway through the first half with the receivers do the rest of the work.” 
Meanwhile, the Shamrocks (1-1) had a tough time mov­ing the ball on offense, thanks in large part to a swarming Welsh Family defense. McG­linn managed just two first downs in the entire first half. The Shamrocks picked it up in the second half, managing to score on their final possession, a seven-play 66-yard drive that culmi­
need to put it all together soon­er.” 
The Wild Women look to reorganize against Pasque­rilla East on Sunday, while the Wildcats have a bye week and look to keep their ‘stache streak rolling against Welsh Family Oct. 2. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
Howard 28, Breen-Philips 7 

an 18-yard nated with a
“We came out and 
touchdown three -yard 
did exactly what 
pass from se-touchdown 
we practiced.” 
nior quarter-pass from se­back Rebecca nior quarter-Cink to se-Brittni Alexander back Lauren nior receiver Chaos senior receiver Miller to se-
By STEPHANIE BANTA 
Sports Writer 
Howard found redemption from its Sunday loss by snag­ging a victory over Breen-Phil­lips 28-7 Tuesday evening. 
“We definitely took a hit last week,” Howard senior captain Jenny Gassner said. “But after losing, [the team] has shown more energy and dedication, especially the freshman play­ers.” 
That energy and dedication were reflected on the field as the Ducks (1-1) scored on their first drive, led by freshman quarterback Lauren Gabel. 
Gabel, a newcomer to the Ducks squad, led the team to two touchdowns in the first half. Junior quarterback Kath­arine Mack helped to rally the Ducks to two more scoring drives in the second half. 
“[The team] is really happy with how well our new quar­terbacks filled in and per­formed under pressure,” Gas­sner said. “After losing key players, we need that leader­ship on the field again. I think we will be able to ride the en­ergy from winning into prac-Megan Rob­ertson. Se­nior captain Brittni Alexander rushed for a 15-yard touchdown to seal the victory in the second half. 
“I think we played awe­some,” Alexander said. “I’m so excited for our team. We did really well.” 
Alexander hopes the Cha­os will continue to show the amount of energy they have in the first two games. 
“Our energy the whole game and our communication [were the keys to our victory],” she said. “We came out and did ex­actly what we practiced.” 
Pasquerilla West (0-1) failed to achieve offensive consis­tency throughout the game, as the Purple Weasels were kept out of the red zone the entire contest. 
“We made some big penalties on offense and defense that killed our momentum,” senior captain Alison Lindeen said. “We’re going to look to control those in the future.” 
The Purple Weasels are hop­ing to improve by their next game. 
“We’re disappointed in the loss,” Lindeen said. “We just have some first game kinks and jitters we need to work out.” 
Pasquerilla West looks to recover Sunday against Pan­gborn, while Cavanaugh has a bye before taking on Breen-Phillips Oct. 2. 
Contact Jonathan Warren at jwarren3@nd.edu 
Welsh Family 27, McGlinn 8 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
Welsh Family looked virtu­ally unstoppable in its 27-8 win over McGlinn Monday night at the Flag Football Fields. 
Coming off a 13-0 win over Pasquerilla East Sunday, the Whirlwind (2-0) utilized a po­tent spread offense that racked up 253 total yards, routinely coming out in the shotgun with multiple receivers and no run­ning backs. 
Junior quarterback Vicky Moreno showed her accu­racy, completing 23 of 27 passes for 249 yards and four touchdowns. Junior receiver Kirsten Groody and senior re­ceiver Natalie Baldasare each had one touchdown reception while senior receiver Charlotte Seasly contributed a pair of scores. The trio combined for 21 receptions and 236 yards. 
“We came into the game with a lot of energy,” Moreno said. “We got protection from the offensive line and I just let nior receiver 
Kate Tucker. 
“Their de­fense was stout,” Miller said. “They really contained our of­fense.” 
McGlinn, who beat Lewis 24­14 Sunday, hopes to get back to its winning ways next week. 
“[Next game] we’ll look to improve,” Miller said. “We still have a lot to learn.” 
Welsh Family will try to remain undefeated Sunday against Lewis while McGlinn squares off against Lyons. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
Ryan 28, Walsh 21 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
It was a wild Monday night game with the Wildcats top­ping the Wild Women 28-21. 
Junior quarterback Maya Pillai led Ryan (2-0) and served as a powerful dual-threat force in the win over Walsh (0-1). Pil­lai ran for 58 yards and passed for 135 yards with four passing touchdowns, going 12-for-16. 
Pillai looked mainly to soph­omore receiver Maddie Swan who finished with two touch­downs and 90 yards receiving. Senior captain and running back Brianna Curtis also ran for 79 yards and had 43 recep­tion yards with one touchdown. 
“The power of the offense comes from the mustache,” se­nior coach Ryan Quillard said. 
Quillard has one of his play­ers draw on a mustache with eye black before every game. This tradition is one that keeps the Wildcats having fun, and will be continued throughout the season. 
On a more serious note re­garding Ryan’s offensive prow­ess, Swan gave all the credit to her quarterback. 
“Maya threw some incred­ible passes up for me and it made my job easy today,” Swan said. 
Ryan’s defense also forced some key turnovers, includ­ing two interceptions and two turnovers-on-downs. 
The Wild Women credited the Wildcats for their relent­less attack. 
“Pillai had a great game,” ju­nior captain and quarterback Kat Leach said. “They came up with some successful plays and we were unable to adjust.” 
Though Leach started to lead a late game offensive surge of her own, the clock ran out too soon. 
“We showed in the end that our offense and defense can play,” Leach said. “We just tice and the next game.” 
Breen-Phillips (0-2) did not go down without a fight, though. The Babes were able to pressure the Howard of­fense to six incomplete passes and two punts. 
The Breen Phillips offense had some weaknesses, throw­ing four interceptions through­out the game. But senior cap­tain Maria Lynch was able to find the end zone in the last minute giving the Babes their first touchdown in two years. 
“[The team] hasn’t scored since our freshman year.” Lynch said. “So, this truly is a new beginning for the team. It’s a personal victory.” 
Breen Phillips looks to re­bound as they face Farley this Sunday, while Howard looks to continue its trek to the stadium as it takes on Badin. 
Contact Stephanie Banta at sbanta01@saintmarys.edu 



Kelly 
continued from page 20 
can catch the ball coming out of the backfield, he can lineup as a wide receiver.” 
Shembo returns to the field 
Irish sophomore linebacker Prince Shembo practiced with the team Tuesday after missing Saturday’s contest due to a family emergency. Kelly said he expects Shembo to play this weekend. 
“That family matter that we talked about has really turned out to be quite remarkable, so we’re happy for Prince and his family,” Kelly said. 
Big 10 referees admit mistake 
After Irish sophomore wide receiver T.J. Jones caught a 26­yard touchdown pass in the win over Michigan State, the team was penalized 15 yards due to an unsportsmanlike conduct infrac­tion. 
Jones had lifted his gloves to the crowd and put them together to show off the leprechaun logo. Kelly said the Big 10 informed Notre Dame that a penalty should not have been called. 
“We got a clarification that it, in fact, is not a penalty … Now, if he does that and puts it in some­body’s face or jumps into the Michigan State band, then that would be an unsportsmanlike penalty,” Kelly said. 
Kelly said he received assur­ances from the NCAA before the season that such a player holding up the gloves to the crowd would not receive a penalty. 
Scouts admire Lynch 
Several NFL scouts were im­pressed with freshman defensive end Aaron Lynch’s performance Saturday, Kelly said. 
“He’s a pretty good looking kid,” he said. “I mean, I think we had about 11 scouts in, and they said that he physically looks like an NFL player right now. He’s got a lot of work to do as it relates to all the other little things that come with being a great player. He’s certainly not there as an every­day player yet. He can’t play every down yet, but he’s getting better.” 
Lynch recorded five tackles, in­cluding a sack and a forced fum­ble of Michigan State quarterback Kirk Cousins. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 




Grant 
continued from page 20 
in my knee,” Van De Casteele said. “I had a couple pro­cedures done on it before, which [the doctors] had hoped would fix it but they didn’t so then they had to op­erate on it in April. I missed pretty much the entire spring season.” 
At the time of that April surgery, it was unclear when Van De Casteele might be ready to retake the field with the Irish. With limited time before the Aug. 27 opener, Van De Casteele underwent intensive rehab to try to ex­pedite the recovery process. 
“It was pretty slow and steady, slow and agonizing, really,” he said. “When I had the surgery, they didn’t know if I was going to be ready for the start of the season or if I would even be playing in the season. I was getting treat­ment at least once a day pretty much the whole sum­mer and I was able to recover pretty quickly.” 
Although he said he is not yet back at full strength, Van De Casteele is content to be 
able to take the field. 
“I’m still getting my strength back and still working on my endurance, but I’m definitely in a good position right now, possibly better than I was at this point last year,” he said. 
Van De Casteele has played all 685 minutes of Notre Dame’s season thus far, as has senior defender Aaron Maund, who combines with Van De Casteele to make up the core of the Irish defense. 
“Me and Aaron have a pret­ty good playing relationship,” Van De Casteele said. “I think we work well together and our skills kind of complement each other.” 
Van De Casteele was recent­ly named the Big East Defen­sive Player of the Week after helping the Irish limit their opponents to only one goal in 181 minutes of weekend play against Michigan (2-6-1) and Michigan State (1-5-1). 
A student in the Mendoza College of Business and a mem­ber of the Dean’s List, Van De Casteele has also been named a Big East Academic All-Star in each of his first two seasons. 
Moving forward, Van De Casteele will attempt to con­tinue his domination of the air space around the goal, but will do so with the support of a group called the “Dancing Gumbies,” a collection of room­mates and friends who attend the soccer games dressed as the green cartoon character. 
“They made their debut on Friday, and since then we are 2-0,” Van De Casteele said. “They’re behind the goal just kind of dancing around, jok­ing, having a good time. There are five of them right now and there’s a Pokey on the way.” 
“Pokey,” Gumby’s sidekick in the cartoon, may make an ap­pearance when the Irish host Louisville Saturday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.eduO 



Kuschel 
continued from page 20 
those errors were physical rather than mental was en­couraging to Kuschel. 
“Our hitters were making the right decisions and the right reads,” Kuschel said. “But the balls kept sailing just long or just wide.” 
While Kuschel might have feared her squad would wilt in the fourth set after its per­formance in the third, she ex­pressed the utmost confidence in her team going into the last set. 
“We were very confident going into the fourth,” Kus­chel said. “It was more about playing as well as we knew we could.” 
Freshman Katie Schneider led the Belles offensively as she notched 15 kills on the day. Junior Stephanie Bodien added 12 and junior Allison Zandarski 8. 
“Getting one-on-one oppor­tunities for our outside hitters was a big emphasis of ours in practice this week,” Kus­chel said. “Their percentages might not have been as high as they have been, but that was mostly due to errors in the third set.” 
Junior Danie Brink once again proved to be the engine behind the transition from of­fense to defense for the Belles. She finished with 16 digs and 35 assists. 
“Brink played very well,” Kuschel said. “She did a great job adjusting to what Trine was doing and executing the plays that we had worked on.” 
The most encouraging signs for the Belles were defense and timely plays. Trine hit just .051 on the match, and the team consistently won points in big spots. 
“We played very composed today, especially on defense,” Kuschel said. “Whenever the play seemed to be over the ball just kept getting back over the net. Our hitters played very well, and our serving accu­racy was amazing. They made big plays at the right time.” 
The Belles resume action on the road against Hope College at 7 p.m. Friday. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 



Belles 
continued from page 20 
tered the season’s second con­ference match trailing Olivet by four strokes before cap­
turing the match by 10 strokes, pro­pelling them into a lead they would maintain for the rest of the season. 
“There is a little bit of urgency to cut down on our to­tal score as a team so we can ei­ther move up into first, or remain comfortable 

“Some goals for this match are to cut down on our total score, apply what we have been practicing for the past few weeks to our rounds and, most importantly, stay focused.” 
Cara Kielty Belles junior 
in second by cutting the lead down,” Kielty said. 
Aside from improving their position in the conference scoreboard, the Belles are viewing the match as yet an-


Holt 
continued from page 20 
trouble catching Oregon, second place remains within reach as three teams sit just seven stokes ahead of the Irish in a tie for second. 
“We just need to show up and play the kind of golf we’re ca­pable of playing,” Holt said. “We need to put ourselves in better positions on the greens to cre­ate more birdies and eliminate high scoring holes.” 
The Irish will look to move up the ranks as the Golfweek Conference Challenge wraps up Wednesday in Colorado. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger@nd.edu 

other opportunity to improve their play. 
In the season’s first MIAA match, senior captain Chris­tine Brown led the Belles with an event-high four birdies en route to earning a score of 80, a mark that was the field’s 
second lowest. But Saint Ma r y’s turned in a team score of 342 for the round, an inflat­ed score the team attributed to loss of concen ­tration, among 
other things. 
The Belles aim 
to minimize those mistakes the second time around. 
“Some goals for this match are to cut down on our total score, apply what we have been practicing for the past few weeks to our rounds and, most importantly, stay fo­cused,” Kielty said. 
In their championship sea­son in the fall of 2010, the Belles recorded a team score above 342 only once, when they scored 343 in the third MIAA match of the year. The team ended the season with an average score of 326.5 in conference matches. 
But the more immediate standard for this Saint Mary’s team is that set by Hope, the host team for this round of play. 
“Hope is hosting this tour­nament so I’m sure they will be ready to perform just like they did at Trine [in the first match], but the pressure of maintaining their lead could pose some problems, so it is our chance to take advantage of this tournament and im­prove our standings,” Kielty said. 
The match is at the Ravines Golf Course at Hope, with players scheduled to tee off at 1 p.m. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 



1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  28  
29  30  31  32  33  
34  35  36  37  38  
39  40  41  42  
43  44  
45  46  47  48  49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  56  57  
58  59  60  
61  62  63  64  65  
66  67  68  
69  70  71  

CROSSWORD 
Across 31 Suspense 1 “Big Brother” 
novelist Hoag host Julie 33 ___ de guerre 5 Milky Way 

34 Literally, “reign” maker 
in Hindi 36 Like 
9 “Oh, get off it!” 
Mendeleev's 14 “The Godfather” table 
score composer 39 W/C Fields? 
Nino 43 Former Ford 15 Riding on minivan 
16 Toothpaste 44 Risk damnation brand once 45 ___ tough spot advertised with 

Bucky Beaver 

46 Mlle., across the Pyrenees
17 “___ framed!” 
48 Summer camp 18 Org. with shelterSpartans and 52 Have the blahs Trojans 55 Emergency 19 Drug that treats contact, often: panic attacks Abbr. 

20 M/C Hammer? 
57 Whichever 
23 Verdi's “___ tu” 58 L/L Bean? 
24 ___ in queen 61 “Oops!” 
25 Raking in 
64 Sac flies 29 Closing bid? produce them 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


65 “___ be in England”: Browning 
66 Big Apple mayor before Koch 67 “Outta my way!” 
68 Jockey's handful 
69 “You're killin' me!” 
70 Goes with 
71 Brouhahas 
Down 
1 Yalta's locale 2 Stooge surname 3 List ender 4 Pelé's org. 5 Powerful ray 6 For neither profit 
nor loss 7 Have a hearty 
laugh 8 Sci-fi travelers 9 Studio behind 
“Up” and “Wall-E” 
10 Engender 
11 Chinese dynasty name 
12 Santa ___ winds 
13 You might put your stamp on it 
21 Comes to 
22 Scottish landowners 
26 Intro to Chinese? 
27 Film ___ 
28 Yukons, e.g. 
30 Hence 
32 Not connected 

WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Michael Black  
35 Tea in Boston  49 Took a dip  56 Someone ___  
Harbor, once 37 Yule decoration  50 Ab ___ (from the start)  (another's) 59 “An ill wind …”  
38 A Chaplin 39 Ragamuffin 40 Russo of film 41 “Of wrath,” in a hymn title  51 L'eggs wares 53 Andean wool source 54 First Catholic  instrument 60 Director Ephron 61 Deg. held by George W. Bush  
42 Sail supports  vice president of  62 Tree with cones  
47 Hit it big  the U.S.  63 Kapow!  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 



HENRy ARNOLD JOE MILLER AND KELLy LyNCH 

THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE J



MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles,one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 


Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 
“ 

” 
Answer here: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: UPPER BEGUN JAGGED INJECTYesterday’s 
Answer: The canine tailor specialized in this — PANTING 

-

-


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic ye ar 
 Enclosed is $75 for one semester  

Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Wednesday, September 21, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
SMC GOLF 
Belles will try to track down Hope 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
After emerging from the 
first conference match of the 
season in second place, the 
Belles are hoping to simulta­
neously distance themselves 
from the pack and begin 
hunting down front-runner 
Hope in their second confer­
ence match Wednesday. 
No. 5 Saint Mary’s sits 17 
strokes behind Hope, but 
three strokes ahead of third 
place Olivet. Despite the 
large deficit, the Belles real­
ize they still have plenty of 
time to overtake Hope. 
“We feel okay about the 
conference standings, and 
are looking to make up some 
strokes tomorrow,” junior 
Cara Kielty said. “Typically 
we come back from behind 
so we are going to approach 
tomorrow with confidence 
and the knowledge that we 
can improve on our stand­
ings.” 
Last year, the Belles en-
see BELLES/page 18 
FOOTBALL 

Prep for Pitt 

By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
After beating rival Michi­gan State 31-13 last weekend, Irish coach Brian Kelly and his squad will face a familiar opponent under a first-year coach when they travel to Pittsburgh Saturday. 
Panthers coach Todd Gra­ham is in his inaugural season at Pittsburgh (2-1), but defeat­ed Notre Dame in 2010 when he coached Tulsa to a 28-27 victory at Notre Dame Sta­dium. Kelly said the team has watched film of that game to prepare for Graham’s squad. 
“He knows us quite well from last year,” Kelly said. “We’re familiar with his sys­tem. Now he essentially put in his philosophy and his system of offense and defense at Pitts­burgh. When you’re watching film, you’re seeing a lot of simi­larities to his Tulsa club. 
“We’ve done a lot of film study on their games this year, but we’ve also looked at last year as well in terms of how the games played out, and also the thing things that we need to do better than last year.” 

Pittsburgh junior running back Ray Graham has rushed for 419 yards and six touch­downs in three games this sea­son. The Panthers will attempt to utilize the talented back against an Irish defense that allowed only 29 yards rushing to Michigan State. 
“Looking at Pittsburgh, obvi­ously the first guy that stands out is Ray Graham,” Kelly said. “Outstanding running back, multi-dimensional in that he 
see KELLY/page 17 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
SMC gets early win over Trine 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
The Belles traveled to Trine University in Angola, Ind. Tuesday and emerged with a four-set victory, 3-1 (26-24, 25-20, 13-25, 25-23). The win pushed the Belles (3-6, 2-3 MIAA) into sixth place in the MIAA. 
The match showed the Belles at their best and their worst as the first, second and fourth sets saw Saint Mary’s gut out close victories while it was trounced 25-13 in the third. 
Belles coach Toni Kuschel saw both positives and nega­tives in her team’s play. 
“I was very happy with our play overall this match,” Kuschel said. “But we gave them the third set by making too many errors. We weren’t making them earn their points. At one point I believe we made seven errors in a row.” 
However, the fact that 
see KUSCHEL/page 18 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
Armstrong goes low again in college debut 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
The second round of the Golf-week Conference Challenge saw Notre Dame and nearly every other team in the field struggle in the strong winds and tough course conditions at the Red Sky Golf Club in Wolcott, Colo. 
Notre Dame posted a 23-over­par to drop to 37-over-par for the tournament. The Irish will enter the final round in ninth place out of 18 teams, sitting 12 strokes behind tournament-leading Oregon. 
Though Monday’s conditions were far from ideal, Irish coach Susan Holt said she would have gladly taken the weather Tues­day, as yesterday’s round left the entire field with an average three strokes higher than the day before. 
“The pin placement was dif­ficult, the greens played ex­tremely fast and the winds were quite strong,” Holt said regarding the playing condi­tions. “All three of those factors made golfing [Tuesday] for ev­ery team difficult.” 
The Irish youth continued their strong play. Freshman Ashley Armstrong tied for the team lead Tuesday, shooting a five-over-par 77, following her impressive opening round one­over-par. 
“Ashley has played pretty solid over the past two days, but she just had a tough back nine today, where she record­ed multiple bogeys,” Holt said. 
Meanwhile, freshman Kelli Oride posted a six-over-par 
78. Her score over the first 17 holes was an even more im­pressive three-over-par, but on the 18th hole Oride landed in a bunker and proceeded to shoot a triple bogey. 
In another impressive per­formance, senior Katie Allare shot a five-over-par for the second day in a row, holding steady even with the worsen­ing weather conditions. 
However, senior captain Becca Huffer continued to struggle, shooting a team-high 81, following a 79 in the first round. Despite an unusu­ally high round for the senior, Holt said he was encouraged by Huffer’s play Tuesday as she hit 15 greens in regula­tion. 
“Becca had three or four three-putts, leading to a couple bad holes,” Holt said. “Otherwise, she was hitting the ball well and will be fine if she improves on the green.” 
While the Irish will have 
see HOLT/page 18 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Defender rises above his peers 

By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Grant Van De Casteele has fought through persistent in­jury and uncertainty in his career, but now he does all his fighting on – or more ac­curately above – the field. 
At 6 feet 2 inches, the junior defender has been nicknamed “Too Tall” by his teammates, a reference to a recent GEICO commercial. The nickname reflects Van De Casteele’s style of play, which relies on his ability to stand out in – or jump out of – a crowd. 
“I’d like to think of myself as a center back with a bet­ter touch and that I’m good with the ball at my feet,” Van De Casteele said. “But [Irish] coach [Bobby Clark] always, always gives me a hard time when I miss a header or don’t win a header, I guess because he thinks I’m so tall there’s no reason I shouldn’t win every header. 
“It’s definitely an important aspect for me as a center back to win the aerial battle with forwards, especially on set pieces.” 
The junior defender, rough­ly four months removed from knee surgery, is a key part of the stalwart Irish defense that has allowed only two goals during No. 17 Notre Dame’s current three game winning streak. After starting every game of the 2010 campaign for the Irish (4-1-2) on an ailing knee, Van De Casteele is now on the mend after a busy off­season. 
“Last year I had tendinitis 
see GRANT/page 17 




