the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Career outlook promising for 2011 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Last year when senior Caitlin Sullivan contacted an Egyptian marine conservation called Hurghada Environmental Protection and Conservation Association, she didn’t expect to have a job lined up after graduation. 
Sullivan — who found a posting online — is now in position to become the organi­zation’s communications offi­cer. According to Sullivan, the company said it would send the offer and contract this February. 
“I’d say I’m more surprised than anything. I didn’t actual­ly expect to hear back from this organization, since they’re based in Egypt,” Sullivan said. “I’m excited about the job.” 
Seniors are now gearing up for graduation, surveying their options, and choosing which path they will take when May arrives. 
Lee Svete, director of the Career Center, said despite economic turbulence in the job market the past few years, Notre Dame students have ridden the current and come out on top. 
“There is no sugarcoating it 
— it’s been a tough market out there, one of the most competitive job markets in the history of the modern econo­my,” he said. “Yet, our stu­dents did well.” 
This accomplishment may be attributed to a greater fre­quency of students using resources from the Career Center. 
“We’ve had almost 4,000 individual appointments in the fall. That’s a new record,” Svete said. “We’re also seeing more sophomores and jun­iors.” 
Svete said 90 percent of the class of 2009 had a career opportunity in position after graduation. Once the 2010 statistics are in, he said he expects the percentage to be even higher. 
Considering positions for this year, seniors demonstrate a very diverse set of interests Svete said, which will allow 
see CAREER/page 4 



ElevenarrestedatIrishRow 

By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
A party bust at the Irish Row apartment complex early Friday morning result­ed in 11 arrests and about nine citations, according to South Bend police logs. 
The roundup is one of the largest since student arrests for underage drinking spiked early in this school year. Police arrested about 70 stu­dents through late August and early September, prompting meetings between University officials, student government and the South Bend Police Department in September. 
Det. Sgt. Ian McQueen said police received a complaint for a noisy party at the com­plex on Vaness Street about 1 a.m. Friday. Upon entering the party, the supervising 
officer decided to arrest minors with a BAC of .05 or higher. Police cited the minors with a lower BAC and allowed them to leave the party. Officers also issued citations for hosting a loud party and contributing to the delinquency minors. 
McQueen said the decision to arrest or cite is usually left to the discretion of the arresting officers. 
“We responded to a call, and we are duty bound to investigate if we see a crime being committed,” McQueen said. 
Police also arrested three students early Saturday morning on Notre Dame Avenue for minor consump­tion, according to police logs. 
Police received a complaint after the students banged on the door of a residential house. The students — who said they had previously been at an off-campus party 
— were taken to the St. 

Joseph County Jail. 
Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Tom Doyle said the University and the police department continue to work together on the issue of stu­dent arrests. 
“We are still actively in communication with multiple community agencies about these matters,” he said. 
Doyle said he recently met with student body president 
see ARRESTS/page 5 



NYU prof. explores language 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
The rising Latino popula­tion in the United States has been marginalized in an English-speaking socie­ty, and Spanish speakers increasingly find them ­selves as “language-less,” according to Dr. Jonathan Rosa of New York University. 
Rosa is an assistant pro­fessor and faculty fellow in the Department of Social and Cultural Analysis and Latino Studies Program at New York University. His lecture, titled “Spanglish Only? U.S. Language Ideologies and Latino Ethnolinguistic Identities,” discussed the way language plays a role in lives of Hispanic Americans. 
see SPANGLISH/page 5 




Business students competefor fellowship 

By CASEY KENNY 
News Writer 
The Mendoza College of Business has launched the Notre Dame MBA Mini Deep-Dive Challenge — a virtual case competition — where individual participants ana­lyze a contemporary business challenge offered by Green Mountain Coffee Roasters and submit a proposal for judging. 
Registration for the chal­lenge opened on Jan. 17 with the deadline for entries of Feb. 4. 
The case is presented by Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, the manufacturer of Keurig coffee makers and sev­eral coffees, teas and other products. The challenge invites individual participants to explore a real world busi­ness challenge, analyze the business problems and pro­pose a solution that has a real impact on a sustainability issue while simultaneously strengthening the company’s brand. 
The top submissions will be selected by teams of Mendoza faculty and staff and then submitted for review to social responsibility and relations and customer development executives of Green Mountain Coffee Roasters. 
The competition is open to anyone, but provides an ideal opportunity for prospective students considering the Mendoza MBA program to glimpse the type of real world case studies offered as part of the program’s interterm intensives. These interterm intensives are a signature fea­ture of the Mendoza MBA pro­gram and involve concentrat­ed four-day case studies of contemporary issues faced by Fortune 500 companies. 
Competition prizes range from a first place grand prize of a $10,000 fellowship to various second and third place prizes, including Keurig coffee brewers, McDonald’s and Adidas gift cards and Notre Dame apparel. In addi­tion, the first 200 contestants who register for the challenge will receive prizes valued at $30. 
see COFFEE/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Off-campus issues addressed page 3  Notre Dame royalty page 8  Men’s hoops wins at Pitt page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Tuesday, January 25, 2011 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: W O DO YOU PICK TO WIN T E SUPER BOWL AND BY W AT SCORE?
THE OBSERVER 






P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Meaghan Veselik Emily Schrank Matthew Robison Melissa Flanagan Cory Bernard 

Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelan Adriana Pratt 

Photo Viewpoint 
Coleman Collins Ren Brauweiler 



OFFBEAT 
Medical marijuana users getting pot soft drink 
SOQUEL — A California entrepreneur has plans to market a line medical marijuana soft drinks. 
Clay Butler says he plans to supply medical marijuana dispensaries with his soda pot, which contains the psychoactive marijuana ingredient THC. 
Marijuana drinks are already showing up here and there, but Butler says he thinks his brand­ing savvy will make his product a hit. 
Besides his flagship cola drink, Canna Cola, he will also produce Dr. Pepper-like Doc Weed, lemon-lime Sour Diesel, 

Corbin Johnson  Eric Secviar  Jeff Steimle  John Riley  Scott Matthews  
senior  sophomore  senior  junior  senior  
Morrissey  Knott  Keenan  O’Neill  off campus  

“Packers 38-24” “Steelers “Packers 24-14” “Packers 17-14” “Black and 35-14” Yellow 4-2” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

grape -flavored Grape Ape and orange-flavored Orange Kush. 
A 12-ounce bottle will cost $10 to $15. 
The Soquel-based com­mercial artist tells the Santa Cruz Sentinel that he doesn't do drugs or need medical marijuana for any ailments. 
Tucson restaurant to offer African lion tacos 
TUCSON — A Tucson taco restaurant already has served up python, alligator, elk, kangaroo, rattlesnake and turtle. 
What' s next? Lion meat. 
Boca Tacos y Tequila says it's accepting pre­paid orders for African lion tacos, to be served starting Feb. 16. Orders must be placed by Feb. 7 and owner Bryan Mazon says there are already a few reservations from curious customers. 
Mazon says his restau­rant started offering exotic tacos on its menu every Wednesday about six months ago and has tried “just about anything we can get our hands on.” 
According to the Food and Drug Administration, lion and other game meat can be sold as long as the species isn't endangered. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
James A. Primbs will present the seminar “Linear-quadratic and Receding Horizon Control Methods in Financial Engineering” today at 3:30 
p.m. Primbs is an assistant pro­fessor in the Department of Management Science and Engineering at Stanford University. The seminar will be given in Room 129 of DeBartolo Hall. 
Instructor Training Information Sessions will be held in Room 110 of the Rockne Memorial today at 5:30 
p.m. Students are welcome to come to this information ses­sion to learn more about becoming a Personal Trainer or Water Safety Instructor. 
The documentary “God's Doorkeeper: Saint André Bessette, C.S.C.” will be shown today at 7:30 p.m. in Andrews Auditorium in Geddes Hall. The film is about the simple life of service that led to Saint André Bessette's canonization. 
The Social Concerns Fair will take place tomorrow at from 6 
p.m. to 8 p.m. The event will be held in Rooms B034 and B036 of Geddes Hall. Representatives from local service agencies and campus clubs will be present for stu­dents to learn more about com­munity involvement. 
Melissa Delvecchio will give the lecture “On Campus with Robert A.M. Stern” tomorrow at 4:30 p.m. Delvecchio is a partner with Robert A.M. Stern Architects in New York. The lecture will be given in Bond Hall and will be followed by a reception. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 



CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


26 24 HIGH 2824 3023
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


17 17 LOW 2021 22 11 







Tuesday, January 25, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 




Off-campus issues addressed 

SISTAR program offers student research grants 

By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Campus Life Council (CLC) dis­cussed the creation of an off-cam­pus administrator, a role that would provide students with a source of support and information regarding off-campus issues such as police incidents, lease issues and neighbor conflicts at its meet­ing Monday. 
Student body president Catherine Soler said recent off-campus arrests have highlighted the need for a response from stu­dent government and the admin­istration. 
“This weekend, and on Thursday, there were incidents and more arrests,” she said. “We’ll be meeting with adminis­trators to talk about a plan going forward.” 
Chief of staff Nick Ruof said while some resources do exist, they are too decentralized to be effective. 
“There’s no real support system in case you have [leasing] or police incidents ... Right now, stu­dent government is sort of fulfill­ing that role,” he said. “Other organizations or groups fulfilling the needs of off-campus students are spread around campus.” 
Fr. Tom Gaughan, Stanford Hall rector, said since many students cite ‘du Lac’ as their reason for leaving campus, they may respond poorly to the creation of such a position. 
“There could be a section of the off-campus population that would sort of be insulted,” he said. “What they moved away from was to be away from ‘mom’.” 
Parliamentarian Ben Noe said despite the physical move, stu­dents are still connected to the University. 
“Even if students are moving off campus, they’re not separate, ‘du Lac’ still applies to students,” he said. “If we’re going to hold them accountable shouldn’t they also have support?” 
Sr. Carrine Etheridge, rector of Farley Hall, brought up the need for students to consider trends in police activity when making deci­sion about socializing off campus. 
“I wish our students would get savvy. The police, the [Indiana State] Excise Police, they know our schedule,” she said. “They know when there’s going to be parties. Learn from that.” 
Student body vice president Andrew Bell elaborated on the need for proactive as well as reac­tive measures. 
“A lot of our time last semester was spent getting information out,” he said. “It’s about taking that proactive role in addition to taking those calls Monday morn­ing asking for help.” 
Lt. Col. Jon Crist, Faculty Senate representative, said there is a danger the position could become a “complaint line.” 
“I think it would be just an umbrella of resources, less of a complaint line,” Soler said. “There’s just a lot of things that are gray and I think if one person were in charge of it all, that would be very beneficial.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 



By BRIDGET MEADE 
News Writer 
Founded in 1991, the Student Independent Study and Research (SISTAR) grant provides Saint Mary’s stu­dents and faculty members with the opportunity to cre­ate eight -week summer research partnerships. 
Professor Laura Haigwood, director of the Center for Academic Innovation (CFAI), said the grant was estab ­lished to encourage the col­laboration of Saint Mary’s students and professors. 
“The program was inspired, in part, by the close, colle­
gial, teaching and research relationships that faculty and students develop at SMC,” she said. “We wanted to be able to reward and encourage that work.” 
The grant, which provides the student researchers with housing and a stipend, is funded by donations. 
Haigwood said Maryjeanne Ryan Burke, a 1956 graduate of Saint Mary’s College, is a large contributor to the pro­gram. Haigwood said the Burke endowment is offered to specifically qualified pro­fessors. 
“The Burke SISTAR is reserved for full -time, tenure-track faculty who are not yet tenured, and it has proved an outstanding research, teaching and learn­ing opportunity for them and for their students,” she said. 
Outside of the Burke SIS­TAR grant, the prerequisites for student and faculty appli ­Identity.” 
Fellow senior Megan Griffin partnered with Political Science Professor Patrick Pierce on a study called “Race to the Top: The Political Economy of State Tax Incentives for Business.” 
Brynn Thomas, also a Saint Mary’s senior, collaborated with Professor Susan Latham on a communicative disor­ders project. 
Senior Alyssa Klubeck teamed up with history pro­fessor David Stefanic on a project called “Women in Revolution: Comparing Women in the French and Irish Revolutions.” 
Klubeck said the experi ­
ence was 
beneficial on 
an educa ­

“The program was tional and professional 
inspired, in part, by the 
level, as well close, collegial, teaching as being 
and research enjoyable. “It was an 
relationships that 
incredible 

faculty and students amount of develop at SMC.” fun to work so closely with one of 
Laura Haigwood 
my favorite director professors Center for Academic Innovation and gain the 
experience of 
working with 
a profession­al academic,” Klubeck said. 
The grant also supports travel and related expenses for the student to attend a professional conference in the next academic year. Stefanic and Klubeck were able to present their study at a conference in Nebraska this fall. 
Haigwood said the idea behind the grant is to give students the opportunity to work side-by-side in a study with a professor, rather than as an assistant. 
“We want [the faculty and the student] to work together 
as genuine 
peers,” 


cants are much more imprecise, Haigwood said. The program is  “It was an incredible amount of fun to work so closely with one of  H a i g w o o d s a i d . “ S I S -TA R s t u -d e n t s a r e  
open to all full-t i m e s t u d e n t s a n d f a c u l t y o f all studies.  my favorite professors and gain the experience of working with a  g e n e r a l l y m o r e l i k e g r a d u a t e s t u d e n t s  
H a i g w o o d s a i d a l t h o u g h  professional academic.”  than under-graduates in  
t h e nu m b er o f a p p l i c a n t s v a r i e s g r e a t l y  Alyssa Klubeck senior  their collab­orative work with faculty.  

from year to year, the grant is usually awarded to four student-fac­ulty research partnerships. The grant is typically pre­sented to a rising senior. 
The application process includes an interview and a written proposal. According to Haigwood, the CFAI grant committee makes the award decisions. The committee is chaired by Haigwood and includes five other faculty members that are elected by the Faculty Assembly. 
Last year ’s four award recipients were selected from a variety of departments. 
Senior Ashley Feely worked with Sociology Professor Mary Ann Kanieski on a proj­ect entitled “Emerging Patterns in Relationships Between Mothers and Their Adult Children: Examining Mothers’ Self -Constructed We want her to be a co ­r e s e a r c h e r, 
or 
an independent peer researcher.” 

With aspirations to attend graduate school, Klubeck said she recognized the opportunity the SISTAR grant 

offered 
her. However, Klubeck said the program gave her more than just a resume boost. 


“While research and writ­ing were invaluable, I found what I learned from Dr. Stefancic as a mentor in my work was a great opportuni­ty,” she said. “I think that is what the SISTAR program really has going for it. The connections it builds between students and professors to work together and learn from each other are unparalleled.” 

Contact Bridget Meade at bmeade01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 25. 2011 
Svete said more recruiters will be on campus. 



Career 
continued from page 1 
them to do anything with their career if they plan it out. 
Senior Katie Valko said plan­ning has created many options for her to choose from. 
“I’m taking the LSAT next month as a kind of last minute whim decision just to see how I do,” Valko said. “I feel like I’ve set myself up well to succeed 
“Recruiting is up about 20 per­cent compared to last year,” he said. “We think that it looks, in terms of economic reports, that more employers will be posting jobs.” 
Svete said while Notre Dame attracts many employers, if stu­dents apply to companies online, they can also work with the Career Center to prepare. 
“Let’s say 
you want to 
work for 
ESPN. You 
in whatever I pursue and have a lot of  “Students are very focused on finding the  can apply on the ESPN website, but  
doors  open.  I  right kind of employer  why not also  
think Notre Dame has really helped me to do that.”  and organizations who are socially responsible.”  work with an alumni who is right there in Connecticut?”  
Svete  said  Svete  said.  
many students, like Valko, have several options they are looking  Lee Svete Director Notre Dame Career Center  “That gives you the leg up.” Professional  
into.  c o n t a c t s  
“We’re seeing  makes  an  
a real interest  i n d i v i d u a l  
right now with  more success- 

working with non-profits, gov-ful in a job search said Svete. He ernment, healthcare, financial cites practice for interviews as a services and corporate head-key distinguisher between candi­quarters in retail,” he said. dates. 
Most noticeably, however, is a “If you have an interview with shift in student interest toward the L.A. Times, come in and do it service organizations, Svete said. with us first,” he said. “Know Over 200 students followed this your strengths and your weak-path after graduation last year. nesses and your personal goals.” 
“Students are very focused on Any Notre Dame student, Svete finding the right kind of employer said, can begin to prepare. This and organizations who are preparation can help soothe any socially responsible,” he said. worries in the process. “They forgo a higher paying job Senior Kim Duffy said she because they want to make a dif-remembers feeling nervous while ference in the world.” completing applications and 
For seniors still searching, interviews. The tension before receiving work as a railroad designer in Anchorage, AK for Hanson Professional Services is difficult to describe, she said. 


“A horrible ‘what if’ bubbles up from your self conscious when you are least prepared,” she said. “What if no one calls me back? What if I hate my first job?” 
To counteract these worries, Svete said students should begin early. 
“Network and have a LinkedIn group — which is like the Facebook of professionals and is 18,000 strong — develop your contact network, write your résumé, talk to professors and use Career Center resources,” he said. 
The Career Center has coun­selors for every major and will work with students who don’t have jobs upon graduation. 
“At graduation we will know the names of individuals seeking jobs,” he said. “If you graduate from ND without a job, we have staff in place for that.” 
Students often avoid visiting the Career Center in Flanner Hall, Svete said, because they don’t have a specific career in mind. 

“You don’t have to know what you want to do. Come over and use us anyway,” he said. “By going to fairs, networking with alumni and realizing you’re going to get some rejections along the way, those experiences will help you down the road.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 


Tuesday. January 25, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
between the city and the stu­dents requires continued 


Arrests 


continued from page 1 
Catherine Soler and vice president Andrew Bell to out­line goals for the coming semester, and the safety of students off campus remains a priority. 
The student arrests this week are a reminder that fos­tering a healthy relationship attention, Doyle said. 

“I think it is accurate to say that the University and its students have made signifi­cant progress since last sum­mer,” he said. “But we cannot take for granted the fragile place that we have come from.” 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 


Spanglish 
continued from page 1 
Rosa collected research from New Northwest High School, a Chicago public high school whose student body is more than 90 per­cent Mexican language, he said. 
“As people who are expected to speak a lan ­guage but then are under­stood to speak no language properly, Latinos are posi­tioned as a linguistic inferi­or,” Rosa said. 
Rosa also said Latinos, even when speaki ng unaccented 

“Here is a symbolic
and Puerto English, are Rican. relationship in which stereotyped 
The differ -Latinos are imagined to because oth­
ence between ers auto ­
embody the Spanish
Mexican and mati cally Puerto Rican language and the associate Spanish was Spanish language their race apparent in with a lan ­
becomes emblematic of
the Spanish -guage they speaking Latinos.” do not community, understand. but was not S o m e
Dr. Jonathan Rosa 
recognized Latinos then 
assistant professor
by individu -pronounce 
New York University 
als who only Spanish 
spoke English, Rosa said. English-speakers tend­ed to group all Spanish ­speakers together into one Latino category. 
“Here is a symbolic rela­tionship in which Latinos are imagined to embody the Spanish language and the Spanish language becomes emblematic of Latinos,” he said. 
Rosa said he interviewed many students from the high school about their language background. These students said the differences in pro­nunciation and rhythm between Puerto Rican and Mexican Spanish was acute. 
In an English -dominated society, native Spanish speakers are marginalized no matter what their back­ground, he said. 
“Latinos can be doubly stigmatized through their presumed lack of English and Spanish language profi­ciency,” Rosa said. 
The term “bilingual ” no longer means being profi ­cient in two languages but instead deficiency in one words with 
an English accent or use the Spanish-English combination of “Spanglish.” 
“Competing forces require Latinos to signal that they are acceptable other by speaking Spanish in English without being heard to pos­sess an accent, ” he said. “Latinos manage these demands by integrating English and Spanish forms in newfound ways that sig­nal their linguistic dexteri­ty.” 
These linguistic problems are challenges for young people like the students at New Northwest High School as they move into adulthood and a professional, English-dominated world. 
“The expectation that Latinos should be proficient in English and Spanish ulti­mately stigmatizes them in relation to the two lan ­guages simultaneously and positions them as having no language.” 

Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 




Coffee 
continued from page 1 
With such prizes on the line, interest and participation are expected to be high. 
“We have seen a huge response thus far,” said Brian Lohr, director of Notre Dame MBA admissions. “There is a lot of energy surrounding the competition and it seems to be resonating with a lot of peo­ple.” 
The competition illustrates the mutual benefits derived from partnering with a major global corporation. 
“The value of the program is that it gives students a glimpse into case analysis,” Lohr said. “It really is a win-win in that students get to see what an MBA program is like and the corporate partners get to eval­uate potential real-world solu­tions to problems.” 
The case briefing will be available to registrants online at the Notre Dame Mini Deep-Dive Challenge website today. The website will also feature videos that follow a team that competed in a similar competi­tion in the fall. 

Contact Casey Kenny at ckenny@nd.edu 


The Observer 




Viewpoint 
page 6 Tuesday, January 25, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Concentration 
I used to have extraordinary concentra­tion. The summer after second grade, I sat on my bed and read an entire set of American Girl books in one go, from “Meet Felicity” all the way to “Changes for Felicity.” Then I would carry on the story with my Felicity doll for hours afterwards. 
When I was older and too old to chain-read five books about a spunky, spritely girl growing up on Jordan Gamble the eve of the Revolutionary 

Scene Editor 
War, I was writing elaborate histori­cal fiction of my own. I would type away at the family computer for hours, delving into all kinds of preteen angst set in pio­neer times or Victorian England, until my mom kicked me off so she could use the accounting program. 
My transformation from single-minded, streamlined completion machine to a lazy whiner surviving on haphazard fits-and­starts began in freshman year of high school, when our home internet connec­tion became fast enough to make pro­crastinating effortless and instantaneous. Whereas I used to just power through my moments of writers’ block or boredom, I started taking those little windows of brain inactivity and shoving them full of Internet junk food. 
Now? I can barely get through The Observer, let alone an entire novel. I suf­fer from a compound affliction — delu­sionally confident in my ability to cram and a crippling fear of actually starting anything because I know I’ll probably end up having to stay up to 5 a.m. to finish it. I doubt I have ADD — I’m just utterly inca­pable of conjuring up motivation. 
In the marathon of college coursework 
— reading and writing and analyzing and synthesizing — I’ve convinced myself I don’t have the endurance for full-length, full-attention anything anymore, so I slow down from my laborious, stumbling jog (attempting a thesis sentence), sit down on a park bench (pull up Twitter) and let myself settle back into consumption with­out activity. 
As I went into the month-long winter break (my last such respite, since I’m a senior and will forever abandon school calendars in May), I had every intention of reading like a maniac. I haven’t read a book for fun since the summer, so I went into the Tippecanoe County Public Library in my Indiana hometown and pulled out 12 books of varying lengths and topics. With four weeks of freedom ahead of me, I thought for sure I’d at least get through seven or eight of them. 
Eh, not so much. I finished “Resurrection,” about Ara Parseghian’s first season, and “Hungry,” a memoir by the model Crystal Renn, in a flash, but mostly because I was stuck in the Denver airport for 29 hours during Christmas travel with nothing else to do. But once I got back to Indiana, I never did get past the first few pages of the other ten library books. 
I really need to get a handle on this attention-span thing, since I’m diving into the real world of journalism soon and probably need to be able to focus on earning a paycheck and all that. 
Maybe I’ll be okay if I can somehow only work out of the United terminal in the Denver airport — it’s a veritable incu­bator for concentration. I could have writ­ten a senior thesis on the American Girl books in that hell hole. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 


University deserves ‘LGBT-unfriendly campus’ trophy 
Let me begin by stating clearly, I am a heterosexual male who loves Notre Dame as much as anyone on campus and believes ardently in the purpose of the school to promote Catholic values and educate at the high­est level. It is pre­cisely due to my love of this University that I am so disturbed that while we pride our­selves in topping lists across acade­mia and athletics, we continue to be Chris public champions Rhodenbaugh for homophobia. The Princeton In Pursuitof Review consistently SocialJustice ranks Notre Dame among the worst in accepting the homosexual community. In 2010 we were fourth on their list of “Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Unfriendly” campuses. Easy and painless reforms can be made this year to move in a more tolerant direction that do not challenge the Catholic DNA of Our Lady’s University. 

This article is not an attempt to debate the morality of homosexuality, but a request that we treat the homosexual students, faculty and staff on campus with the basic respect Catholic teachings demand every human being deserves. After all, the University’s mission state­ment reads that students shall develop a “disciplined sensibility to the poverty, injustice and oppression that burden the lives of so many.” Today, university offi­cials can fire an employee on the charges that he or she is gay. Also, AllianceND — a student organization that would be an authentic voice for both gay and straight students to support the LGBT community on campus — has been denied club sta­tus 14 years consecutively after support has been demonstrated each year. It is incomprehensible why the University is willing to portray itself as homophobic for 



EDITORIAL CARTOON 

not making two basic changes. No one is asking for Notre Dame to be the most accepting school in the nation, but is it too much to ask to not place last? 
A coalition of students and faculty are proposing that sexual orientation be added to the non-discrimination clause that currently reads, “The University of Notre Dame does not discriminate on the basis of race/ethnicity, color, national ori­gin, sex, disability, veteran status or age in the administration of any of its employ­ment, educational programs, admissions policies, scholarship and loan programs, athletics, recreational and other school-administered programs.” It is unclear to me the fear the University has in chang­ing this policy. The Catholic teaching on the subject according to Notre Dame is, “the Church does not say that the homo­sexual orientation is wrong; rather, it is sexual activity between same sex persons that is ‘objectively disordered’ and there­fore sinful. Consequently, the Church says that homosexuals are called to life-long celibacy.” If the Church does not believe homosexual orientation is wrong, what stands in the way of adding sexual orien­tation to the non-discrimination clause? Any violation of University code of con­duct on sexual behavior can continue to be cause for firing or punishment whether it is hetero-or homosexual. Leaving sexual orientation out of the non­discrimination clause is not consistent with the Church’s stance or the mission of the University. 
Notre Dame requires approval for all student group activities, including protests or demonstrations. If a club holds an event without approval, club status can be revoked. Even with that level of administrative control over stu­dent club activity the University continues to deny its students the right to form AllianceND. AllianceND is “a forum in which gay and straight students can meet and form friendships, discuss and present important issues related to tolerance and solidarity within the broader University community, and find common ground in a supportive, respectful, comfortable atmosphere.” I am at a loss to under­stand the controversy behind that mis­sion, particularly after reading the U.S. Catholic Bishops letter Always Our Children: A Pastoral Message to Parents of Homosexual Children and Suggestions for Pastoral Ministers that promotes a loving dialogue and attitude of accept­ance between heterosexual and homo­sexual members of the Catholic faith community. The bishops write, “It is not sufficient only to avoid unjust discrimina­tion. Homosexual persons must be accepted with respect, compassion and sensitivity.” Often, University officials cite the existence of the Core Council as a reason to exclude the AllianceND club. While Core Council is an important part of the University community, it is directly administrated by Notre Dame staff and members must be accepted through an application process. Notre Dame needs to entrust its LGBT students and straight allies with same rights of forming an organization within Catholic values that thousands of students enjoy in the more than 300 student clubs. 
So join us Thursday from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune for the kick­off informational event for the petition, or simply sign the petition when you get the opportunity to support changes in ND’s non-discrimination clause and the inclu­sion of AllianceND. As a proud member of the Notre Dame family, I ask the administration to be respectful to all its students, faculty and staff by acknowl­edging the petition and ending two dis­criminatory policies that do not reflect the strength of the Catholic character of the University. 
Chris Rhodenbaugh is a senior political science major and editor of www.LeftysLastCry.com, Notre Dame’s Progressive Headquarters. He can be contacted at crhodenb@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Inspiration is wonderful when ithappens, but the writer must develop an approach for the rest ofthe time ... The wait is simplytoo long.” 
Leonard Bernstein 
U.S. composer and conductor 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A fellow who is always declaringhe's no fool usually has hissuspicions.” 
Wilson Mizner 
U.S. screenwriter 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Tuesday, January 25, 2011 page 7 
Ask the GreenMan 
Dear GreenMan, 
There’s a coal power plant just a few hun­dred yards from where I work! It sprays soot into the air, covering my windowsill with dust on warm Summer days and turning pristine snow into a dirty grey in the middle of Winter. And, even worse, it emits sulfur dioxide, mercury, nitrogen oxides and car­bon dioxide, along with a host of small quan­tities of other unhealthy and toxic materials. What can I, as an individual in my daily life, do to shut down this coal power plant and replace it with a cleaner, healthier and more sustainable source of electricity? 
Sincerely, 
Dan 
Graduate Student 
Department of Philosophy 
Dear Dan, 
As a reader of this newspaper, I presume you are referring to our much beloved cam­pus power plant, which does indeed rely on coal as its primary fuel source. 
While it is unlikely that the soot on your windowsill came from this plant (whose par­ticulate matter emissions are consistently below EPA thresholds by a significant mar­gin), you are absolutely correct that by burn­ing coal, the plant releases significant quan­tities of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and carbon dioxide. There is no doubt that coal power plants are unsustainable, relying on a depletable resource that emits more carbon dioxide per unit of energy produced than any other fuel. 
You ask what you can do as an individual to entirely shut this plant down, and the answer is that quite frankly, acting alone, you are unlikely to make any progress toward the goal of shutting down this, or any other, coal-fired power plant. Sure, you could write letters and make phone calls, but the odds that the discontent of a single con­sumer will persuade a power plant to close or change its fuel source are not in your favor, my friend. 
But fear not, dear Dan! Collective action is proving more and more effective against coal interests. In fact, 2010 was recently dubbed “The Year the Tide Turned Against Coal” — and with good reason! Movements like the Sierra Club’s Beyond Coal Campaign helped ensure that in the past year zero new coal plants began construction, thirty-eight proposals for new coal plants were either abandoned or defeated and forty-eight coal plants announced their impending retire­ment. 
One of the forces driving these achieve­ments has been student activism. Students on several major university campuses have 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Promoting peace 
Dear Notre Dame students, Your efforts to promote peace in Sudan 
Thank you for recently participating are appreciated by all of us who share in the Playing for Peace 3v3 Basketball that goal and work to achieve it. Tournament and STAND with SUDAN Looking at my Alma Mater from here Peace Rally on Dec. 4! This month, mil-in Khartoum, where I am working with lions of southern Sudanese peacefully USAID, I am proud to see your healthy participated in a referendum to decide civic engagement. Keep up the good whether to remain united with the rest work! of Sudan or to secede and form a new In Notre Dame, nation. Your involvement and concern is shared by representatives of the U.S. Edward Ebert government and Congress, United alumnus Nations, African Union, European Class of 1999 Union and even Hollywood celebrities. Jan. 24 secured coal-free commitments from their universities. Perhaps it’s time Notre Dame students made an effort to make this campus coal-free. It will need to be a collective effort, to be sure, but that effort will begin with an individual. That individual could be you. 

Victories like these have contributed to the increased presence of renewable energy sources providing power on the U.S. electric grid. As a result, the majority of U.S. con­sumers now have the option to either pay a small premium per kilowatt-hour to source their electricity with renewable sources through their current utility, or switch to a utility provider that uses entirely renewable sources. 
While choosing a utility provider is not necessarily an option for students on a col­lege campus, it’s certainly something to con­sider in the future, as we move beyond “the bubble.” Here are a couple helpful tools to help you assess and improve the “cleanli­ness” of your electricity: 
Using your zip code and utility provider’s name, the EPA’s online Power Profiler will break down your region’s fuel mix and help you calculate your home’s annual CO2, NOx, and SO2 emissions. The Department of Energy’s Green Power Network makes it easy to find out if buying green power is an option in your area, by listing any state-spe­cific utility green pricing programs, as well as all nationally-available renewable energy certificates. 
There are other ways that you, as an indi­vidual, can take a stand against coal. Check the products you buy for labels like Greene-e and WindMadeTM that indicate a company’s commitment to renewable energy sources. 
Always and above all, the most significant thing you can do as an individual to reduce the harmful emissions from power plants is to simply reduce your electricity demand. If you know your energy is dirty, use less of it! Unplug unnecessary chargers, set your com­puter to sleep, and watch Jersey Shore reruns together with your friends instead of separately (this also has the wonderful side-effect of making you feel less ashamed of your love for the train wreck known as Snooki). 
Reaching for renewables, 
The GreenMan 
Have a question about the environment or how to go green in your personal life? Wondering about the ethics of dating someone who drives a Hummer? Curious about eco-friendly purchasing options? The GreenMan will be here every other week to answer your questions: email askthegreenman@gmail.com 

Stay classy ... 
Dear anonymous D6-using car mirror, you took a second and a third owner, swing with your door and then left. 
I know not who you are, and I hope I Sir or madam, thank you for your never again meet you. I would, howev-work. You are a classy and respectful er, like to thank you. Not only did you individual and have put me $290 in attempt (and fail) to take two parking debt. Just know, from now on I intend spots for your own vehicle, but you to make a daily trip to the lot and also managed to hit my own car with record everybody’s license plate num­your door. Now, any decent human bers. would have contacted parking servic­es, left their insurance card or any-Oliver Chmell thing of the like. You, however, did junior none of these. Instead, judging from Morrissey Manor the three scuff marks and crack in my Jan. 24 
UWIRE 




Copyright vs. ownerwhip: The right to jailbreak 
The infamous hacker George Hotz, 
a.k.a. “Geohot,” has been sued by Sony of America for publishing tools and informa­tion which can be utilized to “jailbreak” (override the software limitations of) the PlayStation 3 video game console. Kirk Sigmon Sony alleges that 
The Cornell 
Hotz’ tools, by enabling gamers to D aily Sun play illegally copied games, encourage copyright infringement in violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. Hotz’ case reflects a very hotly debated question in the courts today: Who really owns a PS3? 
The after-market modification of elec­tronic devices is not new to Sony or other electronic device manufacturers. Sony first experienced console modification with the original PlayStation, as some gamers would modify the console’s hard­ware in order to play illegally copied games burned on rewritable CDs. Not long after, Microsoft’s Xbox console became a popular target of modification due to a game save vulnerability which allowed gamers to pirate and modify games. Today, virtually every company creating electronic devices has to worry about some form of end-user modifica­tion: Hotz is also responsible for “jail­breaking” Apple’s iPhone, which allows the phone to use different cell phone net­works and Apple-prohibited applications. 
17 United States Code §1201 prohibits the circumvention of “technological measure[s]” that “effectively control access” to copyrighted material. The Library of Congress provided an exemp­tion to this statute for hackers like Hotz in 2010, after Apple sought to sue those who “jailbroke” their iPhones. In order for his PS3 modifications to fall under this exemption, Hotz must show that his hack­ing was for interoperability — that is, that his modifications allow the PS3 to operate with different programs and do not facili­tate copyright infringement. Though Hotz does claim he made a “specific effort” to avoid enabling piracy, his modifications nevertheless provided the tools for others to pirate, and if Sony can prove others are using Hotz’s tools to illegally copy games, they may win their case. 
Hotz’s case represents a hotly debated legal issue in the courts today: The scope of ownership of electronic devices. As Hotz and many others would argue, someone who purchases an electronic device like a PS3 has unrestricted access to their device: They can play it, hack it or even throw it off a cliff. This type of complete ownership would allow con­sumers the unconditional right to modify their devices, even if modifications would enable potential copyright infringement. Companies like Sony would argue that parts of the device — the built-in limita­tions and code in particular — are still the property of the manufacturer and are thus illegal to tamper with. As such, the consumer is more like a licensee, who may enjoy a device only in the manner prescribed by the manufacturer. 

The difference in these “scopes of own­ership” means quite a bit to the everyday person: If companies can still control their devices after selling them, they can disable or change them at their leisure. Apple recently patented a method to remotely disable iPhones and iPads that exhibit “suspicious behavior,” which could be used to remotely disable modi­fied iPhones and iPads without warning. Microsoft used similar methods to remotely disable modified Xbox 360 con­soles last year. If left unchecked, users who have modified their electronic devices or use their devices “incorrectly” may soon find these devices remotely dis­abled by secretive “updates” or changes without warning. 
Though these methods seem draconian, there are non-copyright-related reasons why companies like Sony and Apple may wish to employ them. In many cases, modified devices can have a detrimental effect on the quality of provided services. “Jailbroken” iPhones enable network tools that have the potential to heavily tax AT&T networks, seriously harming other consumers’ iPhone capabilities. Modifications to the Xbox allowed gamers to easily cheat at popular online games, harming legitimate online competition. Theoretically, some form of post-pur­chase control is necessary to ensure all consumers can enjoy their products as originally developed — the debate, of course, is over how much control is really necessary. 
So who really owns a PS3 or other pri­vately purchased electronic devices? That question may soon be answered by the courts. A remarkably similar World of Warcraft-related tampering case may be appealed all the way to the Supreme Court, as federal courts currently dis­agree regarding whether or not a copy­right owner can sue when a consumer circumvents copyright protection without infringing copyright law. Even with such a case, the battle between consumer autonomy and copyright protection rages on, and it will take much more time, liti­gation and legislation in order to fully answer questions regarding scopes of ownership. Nevertheless, for the time being, some things are certain: hackers like Hotz will continue to do new and innovative things with technology that toe the line of legality, and electronic device manufacturers will constantly be seeking new methods to protect their proprietary interests in the ever-changing world of electronic devices. 
This article first appeared in the Jan. 21 edition of The Cornell Daily Sun, the daily publication serving Cornell University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 



Scene
page 8 Tuesday, January 25, 2011 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 


Scene
Tuesday, January 25, 2011 page 9 

Campus has settled into the routine of second semester, and memories of Christmas break are slowly drifting away. What’s left is a campus that is cold, dark and covered in snow. Gone from campus are the joyful romps on the quad, the games and 
Nathaniel Lee
laughter as young people played in the wondrous wintery blanket, illuminated by the dazzling back-
Scene Writer 
ground of Christmas lights. Now the elements have gone from old friend to bitter enemy, and to make things worse, the dining halls have already returned to being monoto­nous and stale. This week’s recipes should solve both of these problems. 
Puppy Chow 
1) Melt half a cup of chocolate chips in the microwave until smooth. 
2) Add a heaping spoonful of peanut butter and blend until creamy. 
3) Add two cups of Cinnamon Life cereal. 
4) Mix well, covering the cereal thoroughly and evenly in the chocolate mixture. 
5) Allow five minutes to cool, stirring occasionally to keep cereal from sticking together. 
6) Add half a cup of powdered sugar, mix well to coat the cereal in pow dered sugar. 
Makes two servings. Best served with a glass of milk. 
Cookie Sandwiches 
1) Take two slices of bread and spread one side with smooth peanut butter and the other with jelly. 
2) Warm one chocolate chip cookie in the microwave for 20 seconds. 
3) Place the cookie in between the slices of bread. 
4) Toast and warm the entire sandwich in a panini machine or conveyor-belt toaster, depending on your dining hall. 
Best served with a glass of milk, also good for take-out. 
Dinner Discussion: Cold Weather Tips 
The stinging wind, sub-zero temperatures and impassable fields of snow 
seem to make even the simplest of tasks impossible. Walking to class, a trip 
across the quad or even the trek to the dining hall is daunting. The recipes 
today are rich, chocolaty and will warm you to the bone, and there are 
other tricks you can use to keep warm in the face of the permacloud. 
Finding a route to class that goes through other buildings will certainly 
add time to your commute, but will allow you to avoid many of the most 
treacherous spots on campus. O’Shag is a great way to move across South 
Quad while avoiding the wind tunnel. LaFortune is long, warm, and full of 
places to get a warm coffee or bite to eat. 
The combination of Riley, Nieuwland and Stepan Chemistry Building pro­
vides many warm-walk options. Try to find even a brief respite somewhere 
on your path such as the Howard tunnel, Cushing, the entrance to South 
Dining Hall and any dorms that you can pass through. 
Many of us know that layering is a key to dressing warm, but it can be 
difficult to do while trying to keep up some semblance of style. Wearing 
thermals or leggings under jeans is a warm alternative to sweatpants, but 
anyone who tries this knows that once you are seated in your 75-degree 
classroom, they become a prison of heat. 
A good alternative is to wear removable leggings that come off as you get 
inside. These leg warmers will work effectively outside, can be easily taken 
off in a sneaky way once you get indoors and give your legs a breather in 
the sauna of Debart. Most importantly, they allow you to keep your dignity 
and your real pants. 
Finally, even the chilliest of dorm rooms and most depressed roommates 
can be cured with a good ol’ fashioned blanket fort. The idea is simple 
enough; attach the ends of blankets to anything up high, be it lofted beds, 
ladders, bookshelves or futons. Cushion the ground with more blankets, pil­
lows and mattresses. Make sure to get a good seal with your blanket walls 
to ensure that heat is trapped. Bring in the TV, some games, good books or 
a friend and relive the glory days of your youth. 
Remember, now you are a college student who is sure to have some archi­
tect and/or engineer buddies. There is nothing to stop you from building a 
towering maze of blanket forts and tunnels. Bring in a fresh bag of puppy 
chow and the winter weariness will melt away. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Nathaniel Lee atnlee5@nd.edu 


page 10 The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, January  25, 2011 
NFL 


Pittsburgh fans pride themselves on loyalty 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — Proud, tough and resilient. The same adjec­tives that could describe the Pittsburgh Steelers could also apply to their large and fiercely loyal fan base. 
Now the team has rewarded its black-and-gold faithful with a shot at another Super Bowl. Only the Green Bay Packers stand between the Steelers from a seventh title when the tradition-rich teams play in Super Bowl XLV on Feb. 6 in Dallas. 
Shuttling between stores for the latest Steelers gear, fans Monday in Pittsburgh’s com­mercial Strip District were still giddy over the 24-19 victory over the New York Jets to win the AFC title. 
“It’s in your blood. I have the Terrible Towel that I was wrapped in as a baby,” said Rob Mowry, 35. The Pittsburgh-area native manages a trading com­pany and owns a restaurant in Chicago, but still flies back to western Pennsylvania at least four times a year to watch Steelers games. 
“I haven’t missed a playoff game in as long as I can remember,” said Mowry, wear­ing a black-and-gold knit hat. “I already booked a flight to Dallas last week, before I even knew what was going on.” 
A yellow placard taped to a car window in a hotel parking garage offered a reminder through a new signature phrase: “Knocking On 7’s Door.” 
After another AFC title trophy presentation at Heinz Field, team president Art Rooney II spoke Sunday night of “finish­ing the job.” 
That would be a Super Bowl title, of course. 
“Steeler Nation, we’re going to Dallas,” he proclaimed. The Steelers, known as a model NFL franchise, have been run by three generations of the Rooney family. 
It’s the organization’s mom and pop-type feel that res­onates with its fan base, even if the Steelers are a big business and one of the top-selling teams in the NFL. The franchise’s sense of loyalty appeals to the blue-collar sensibilities of west­ern Pennsylvanians. 
“It’s been part of the Rooney family forever. The Steeler Nation is the Rooney family. Just because I left Pittsburgh 30 years ago doesn’t mean it’s not still in my blood,” said Tim Tirlia, 52, now of Houston, who flew up this weekend to watch the Steelers win. 
The NFL’s fifth-oldest fran­chise, the Steelers were found­ed in 1933 as the Pittsburgh Pirates. The Rooney family changed the name to “Steelers” in 1940 to honor the area’s industrial heritage. 
But Super Bowl success didn’t come until the 1970s, when they won four titles over six seasons during a period of tough economic times. Steel mills closed, and many families left seeking better opportuni­ties. 
Many of those who departed took their Steelers allegiance with them and passed it on to children and grandchildren. Those who stayed viewed the team as the common bond that offered a brief distraction from the economy’s harsh realities. 
“That’s all we had,” said Jim Coen, 51, the owner of Yinzers in the Burgh, a Strip District store that sells just about any­thing with a Steelers logo. 
AP 

Steelers linebacker LaMarr Woodley celebrates with fans after Pittsburgh’s 24-19 victory over the New York Jets on Sunday. 
“With that winning, it gave the the Seattle Seahawks in the city some pride.” Super Bowl in 2006. Three 
After a 26-year drought, years later, the Steelers won the Pittsburgh won its fifth Super Bowl again, over the Lombardi Trophy after beating Arizona Cardinals. 
NFL 



Ryan still confident Jets can be Super Bowl champions 
(will be), but I believe it. In my franchise were hoping to kick in because, quite honestly, we’ve year’s. 
Associated Press 

heart, I believe we’ll be champs.” the door on a championship this done a pretty good job of it. It “This team has assembled some 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. — Now That confidence is what endears year. seems like nobody else in the great players and I’ve never been that was one wacky, made-for-TV Ryan to his players — and also It all started with an aggressive league can beat them, so we’ve around a better team,” guard season. makes him such a target. He rubs offseason in which the Jets made got to find ways to beat Green Bay, Brandon Moore said. “I just think 
Big-name players. Trash talk. some the wrong way with his big splashes by signing LaDainian to beat Baltimore, to beat these of all the missed opportunities that Scandals. Controversies. And, bluster, while others eat up his Tomlinson and Jason Taylor and other teams that we lost to.” don’t come around very often.” another run at the Super Bowl “I’m just being me” style. But, trading for Santonio Holmes and There will certainly be big The Jets proved their resilience that fell just short. through it all, he has already Antonio Cromartie. They also cut changes in the offseason, with sev-from early in the summer, when 
Boy, Rex Ryan and the New changed the perception of a fran-popular players such as Thomas eral players facing uncertain they refused to be distracted by York Jets have their work cut out chise that lacked an identity and a Jones and Alan Faneca and trad-futures with the team. And, with the cameras that made them foul-to produce a compelling sequel to winning tradition. ed Leon Washington and Kerry an unclear labor situation, it mouthed, reality-show stars on this one. “The fact that we didn’t reach Rhodes. remains to be seen if there will HBO’s “Hard Knocks.” 
“I think that our best is still yet our goal this year, clearly that’s a Ryan insisted the Jets were even be a chance to play football They stuck together while Revis to come,” an ever-confident Ryan disappointment, but it doesn’t making moves that would ulti-next season. was embroiled in a bitter contract said Monday, a day after the Jets’ mean we had a bad season,” Ryan mately turn them into a better “I just hope it gets worked out at dispute that held him out of train­24-19 loss to the Pittsburgh said. “We had a heck of a season team than the one that lost to the end of the day,” Ryan said. ing camp. Steelers in the AFC championship when you look at it. How close are Indianapolis in the AFC champi-Holmes, Cromartie and Braylon The Jets also weathered the game. we to realizing our goal? We’re onship game last year. General Edwards are scheduled to be free swirling storms of controversy 
Say this much about Ryan: At pretty darn close.” manager Mike Tannenbaum and agents, while veterans such as that threatened to derail them: least he’s consistent. The players certainly won’t owner Woody Johnson echoed Tomlinson, Taylor, Shaun Ellis and Edwards’ drunken-driving arrest, 
He has been talking up his team argue that, not after the Jets were their coach’s declarations, and Tony Richardson might have also the NFL investigation of the team’s since he took over as coach two the only team in the NFL to be one they were all almost right. If not played their last games in green treatment of a female Mexican tel-years ago, so why stop now? The of the last four playoff teams for having to play the entire post-and white. evision reporter, the fallout from Jets (13-6) made it within a game remaining in each of the last two season on the road again, maybe “More than likely, it’s not going Brett Favre’s sexual harassment of the Super Bowl in consecutive seasons. New York would have taken that to be the same team,” cornerback case, assistant coach Sal Alosi years for the first time in franchise “At this point, we’re right next elusive step — a place the Darrelle Revis said. “You wish you tripping an opposing player and history, although Ryan boldly there,” said quarterback Mark Jets haven’t been since Joe could have everybody back, but ordering players to form a sideline scribbled “Soon To Be Champs” on Sanchez, who took a significant Namath got them there in 1969. we all know the business and we wall, and the foot-fetish videos an ESPN bus during training step forward in his second season. “We’ve got to find a way to win know things happen. We wish we supposedly featuring Ryan’s wife. camp. “We’re so close. As hard as it is, our division and that’s no easy could, but it won’t.” It was one thing after another 
“Maybe when I said that,” Ryan we’re just knocking on the door.” task,” Ryan said. “This isn’t just That’s what makes this season’s with this team, and the Jets just said, “I just don’t know when that But, Ryan and the rest of the about beating New England ending sting even more than last kept winning. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

could even play Munchkin. GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT nd.rpg.snax@gmail.com RENTAL: NOTICES PERSONAL ——————————————— 
If you or someone you care about House for rent for UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? has been sexually assaulted, we Join/start weekly pen-and-paper graduation/JPW/weddings,football, can help. RPG / snacky potluck group etc.
FOR RENT 

Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has Contact me if you're looking for new many resources in place to assist For more information, visit Notre player or send me the systems and Walk to Campus Student Housing. Perfect location-right next to the THE IRISH BEAT PITT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! you. If you or someone you love Dames website: settings you'd want to play. I can 1, 2, and 3 bedrooms from $465 per new Eddy Street Commons-walk to needs confidential support or assis-GM if necessary, but don't have to. bed. everything-safe family oriented tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at http://csap.nd.edu I'm leaning toward systems that are street. 1-7819. cheap to start up -- dnd 3.5, Swimming Pool, Fitness Center, For more information, visit ND's GURPS, or Ars Magica, but am Tanning Beds. Clover Village and Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for website at: http://pregnancysup-flexible. Clover Ridge. 574.272.8124 additional info and photos port@nd.edu Open to any level of roleplaying, www.colvervillageapartments.com ——————————————— ——————————————— from hack 'n' slash on up -- we ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Tuesday, January 25, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
NFL 




Palmer demands trade, Bengals not listening 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI — The Bengals aren’t willing to trade Carson Palmer, who wants to leave one of the NFL’s least-successful fran­chises while he’s still in his prime. 
Owner Mike Brown said Monday that the 31-year-old quarterback asked for a trade a little more than a week ago. Brown told Palmer the team wouldn’t trade him because he’s central to its plans. 
“He was told that, and that we count on him going forward,” Brown told The Cincinnati Enquirer and the team’s website in Mobile, Ala. “He was told that we are not in a position to trade him.” 
The franchise quarterback has decided it’s time to leave his mess of a franchise. 
Palmer hasn’t talked to the media since making his trade request. A text message seeking comment wasn’t returned. Agent David Dunn released a statement saying that “because of the lack of success that Carson and the Bengals have experienced together, Carson strongly feels that a separation between him and the Bengals would be in the best interest of both parties.” 
Palmer was the franchise’s building block when it made him the first overall pick in 2003, Marvin Lewis’ first season as coach. He led the Bengals to the playoffs in 2005 and 2009 — their only winning records in the last 20 years — and rebounded from severe knee and elbow injuries along the way. 
His trade request is another telling moment for a franchise coming off a 4-12 season that was in many ways its most disap­pointing. Lewis’ contract was up, but he decided to stay even though Brown refused to make any significant changes in how the team operates. Brown, Lewis and the staff are in Alabama to coach players for the Senior Bowl. 
During the taping of an episode of “The T.Ocho Show” that will air Tuesday night on the Versus cable network, receiver Chad Ochocinco and Terrell Owens said Palmer was unhappy with Lewis and the front office. 


“If he’s asking for a trade, he obviously wasn’t comfortable with the rehiring of Marvin Lewis,” said Owens, who is a free agent. “He’s been very stealth and discreet with his message, but he’s saying there’s a problem without saying there’s a prob­lem.” 
NBA 



Mavericks add Peja for offense 
DALLAS — Peja Stojakovic used to pile up points against the Dallas Mavericks. Now they’re eager to see what he can do for them. 
Dallas signed Stojakovic off waivers on Monday in a bid to replace some of the scor­ing punch lost when Caron Butler went down with a sea­son-ending injury. 
Although Stojakovic has averaged 17.2 points per game over his career, and 
19.2 per game against Dallas, the Mavericks realize that’s not the guy they are getting. 
This is the fourth straight season his average has dropped. He’s also played only eight games because of knee injuries, the last on Nov. 
26. Dallas is even his third stop; he started with New Orleans and was dealt to Toronto, then was waived on Thursday. 
The Mavs don’t even know when the 33 -year-old Stojakovic will suit up. 
“We’ re taking it slow, ” team president Donnie Nelson said. “Depends on him getting into game shape.” 
Dallas was off to a tremen­dous start this season until Dirk Nowitzki got hurt, then Butler was lost. Nowitzki is back in the lineup but clearly still not at full strength. The Mavs are in a 4-10 rut head­ing into a four-game homes­tand that opens Tuesday night against the Clippers. 
Stojakovic did most of his damage against Dallas dur­ing his heyday with the Sacramento Kings. They were frequent playoff foes with the Mavericks. That’s what team owner Mark Cuban had in mind when he tweeted: “Peja is now a Mav ! Time to let him drop some of those 3s on the bad guys” 
To clear a roster spot, the Mavericks traded fourth ­string center Alexis Ajinca to Toronto for the rights to Georgios Printezis, who is playing in Spain. 
The NBA office approved the deal after investigating whether there was more to Toronto waiving a player Dallas wanted at the same time the clubs made a trade. The league apparently ruled these were separate transac­tions. 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 25, 2011 
MLB 


Arizona trades for Tigers’ Galarraga 


Associated Press 
PHOENIX — The Arizona Diamondbacks have added depth to their pitching staff with a right-hander who was nearly perfect. 
Arizona acquired Armando Galarraga in a trade with the Detroit Tigers for minor league pitchers Kevin Eichorn and Ryan Robowski on Monday, giv­ing the Diamondbacks another arm in what should be a pretty good rotation battle in spring training. 
Galarraga, 29, had an aver­age 2010 season, but gained fame by missing a perfect game when umpire Jim Joyce acknowledged blowing a call with two outs in the ninth inning against Cleveland. 
He’s expected to compete for a spot in Arizona’s rotation on a staff that already includes Joe Saunders, Ian Kennedy, Dan Hudson, Barry Enright, Zach Duke and Aaron Heilman. 
“We are excited about the opportunity to acquire a pitch­er of Armando Galarraga’s ability a few weeks before the start of spring training,” Diamondbacks general manag­er Kevin Towers said. “Armando is a quality pitcher as well as individual that will compete for a spot in our rota­tion with all of the other start­
ing pitchers this spring.” Galarraga went 4-9 with a 
4.49 ERA in 24 starts and one relief appearance last season with the Tigers, gaining nation­al attention when Joyce blew the call at first base against Cleveland and later made a tearful apology. 
Galarraga, who was 13-7 with a 3.73 ERA just two years ago, is 23-26 with a 4.58 ERA over four seasons with Detroit and Texas. 
He has a one-year contract for $2.3 million, but became expendable when the Tigers signed Brad Penny. 
“I talked to Armando and he was very thankful,” Tigers gen­eral manager Dave Dombrowski said. “He said he realized it was a business and he understood. It’s a great opportunity for him. Arizona was real aggressive because they are looking for a starting pitcher. It’s a good match for everybody involved.” 
Eichhorn, a 20-year-old right-hander, was 5-6 in 15 minor league starts last season. Left-hander Robowski, 22, was 2-4 in 35 relief games in the minors last year. 
Dombrowski was satisfied with acquiring Eichhorn and Robowski in exchange for a player who wasn’t going to be in Detroit’s rotation. 
NBA 


O’Neal ruled out for game against Wizards 

Associated Press 
WALTHAM, Mass. — Doc Rivers knew the O’Neal veterans — Shaquille and Jermaine — would miss time with injuries after the Celtics signed them to plug the hole left by another ail­ment. 
Boston’s coach just didn’t think the two free agent centers would miss as much time as they have. 
Shaquille O’Neal sat out prac­tice on Monday and will be side­lined for the second straight game with a sore right hip when the Celtics try to bounce back from a loss to the lowly Washington Wizards with a win Tuesday night against the team with the worst record in the NBA, the Cleveland Cavaliers. 
“It’s not a serious injury,” Rivers said, “but he’s also 38 years old and we’re going to be very cautious.” 
The Celtics start a four-game West Coast trip in Portland on Thursday night, and Rivers said he thinks O’Neal will play in at least one or two of those games. 
Both O’Neals were signed in the offseason as free agents to fill in for Kendrick Perkins, who hurt his knee in Game 6 of the NBA finals and missed the Los Angeles Lakers title-clinching 83-79 win in Game 7. 


Tuesday, January 25, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 


No. 16 Minnesota’s Nolen needs surgery 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — Minnesota’s push for postsea­son position will go on, for the second straight year, without Al Nolen. 
This time, though, the Gophers don’t have the same depth to compensate for the loss of one of their leaders. 
Nolen needs surgery on his broken right foot, raising the question about whether the senior point guard will be able to play again for 16th­ranked Minnesota with only six weeks remaining before the tournament season begins. 
Coach Tubby Smith, who revealed the news Monday on a conference call with Big Ten reporters, mentioned four weeks as a benchmark but said it was too soon to speculate about how long Nolen would be out. 
“That’s a real blow to us,” Smith said. 
Last year, Nolen was ruled academically ineligible at the start of the spring semester and played his last game on Jan. 17. This time, he at least has a chance to come back, but his absence will make it harder for the Gophers (15-4, 4-3 Big Ten) to finish strong in the conference and grab a high seed in the NCAA tour­nament. 
They can’t rely anymore on Devoe Joseph, who decided to transfer earlier this month. As a sophomore last season, Joseph stepped in for Nolen as the starting point guard and contributed sever­al clutch performances down the stretch to help the Gophers rally and reach the Big Ten tournament champi­onship game. 
This year, freshmen Maverick Ahanmisi and Chip Armelin will have to fill in, a tough task for first-timers. Though they’ve shown poten­tial, neither is averaging more than 10 minutes or four points per game. Ahanmisi is the only true point guard remaining on the roster. 
“We know that we’ve got a tough challenge ahead of us,” Smith said. 
The Gophers host Northwestern Wednesday, the day Nolen will have an operation to place a pin in his foot. He missed five games earlier this season while recovering from what was described by the team as a stress reaction, the precur­sor to a stress fracture. 
Nolen decided then not to have the procedure, prefer­ring to let the foot heal on its own and wear orthotics in his shoes for added comfort. But Nolen landed awkwardly on his foot while playing defense Saturday at Michigan, limping to the bench after playing only 11 minutes in the first half. Smith said after the game Nolen sprained his ankle, but the final diagnosis was a bro­ken bone. 
On the conference call, Smith sounded frustrated that Nolen didn’t have the surgery the first time. 
“It cost us. It cost him,” Smith said. 
NFL 



Bears defend Cutler’s exit 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. — Jay Cutler finally got some protec­tion. 
The Chicago Bears rushed to their quarterback’s defense on Monday, blasting current and former players who in Twitter posts questioned his toughness for sitting out most of the sec­ond half of Sunday’s 21-14 NFC championship game loss to Green Bay with a knee injury. 
“I think it’s crap,” general manager Jerry Angelo said. “I thought they were a union. If that’s the way they unionize themselves, they got bigger issues than the one that they have with the owners. I’m very disappointed. That, to me, is dirty pool.” 
Jacksonville Jaguars running back Maurice Jones-Drew and Arizona Cardinals defensive lineman Darnell Dockett, along with former players like Deion Sanders and ESPN analyst Mark Schlereth, were among those criticizing Cutler on Sunday. 
To that, coach Lovie Smith said, “Our quarterback’s a tough guy. ... It’s pretty simple what happened yesterday. Before the half, Jay hurt his knee. He showed a lot of toughness to continue to play with it.” 
Smith said Cutler sprained the medial collateral ligament in his left knee late in the first half and would have been questionable for the Feb. 6 Super Bowl had the Bears beaten Green Bay. He also emphasized the team and med­ical staff made the call to lift the quarterback, who played the first series in the third quarter before standing on the sideline. also said he had received death 


Cutler underwent an MRI on threats from Bears fans. Monday and was at Halas Hall. Dockett posted, “If I’m on He did not make himself avail-chicago team jay cutler has to able to the media and declined wait till me and the team comment on the criticism after shower get dressed and leave the game. before he comes in the locker 
His coach and teammates room!” had plenty to say, though. They Schlereth wrote, “As a guy 
were  particu­ how  had  20  
larly  peeved  knee surgeries  
about a  series  you’d  have  to  
of Twitter posts by cur-rent and for-mer players  “Before the half, Jay hurt his knee. He showed a lot of  drag me out on a stretcher to Leave a champi­onship game!”  
ripping Cutler. “I’ll just tell you this, the  toughness to continue to play with it.”  And Sanders had this to say, “Im telling u in  
one  thing  I  the  playoffs  u  
know  about  Lovie Smith  must  drag  me  
Jay  Cutler  is  Bears coach  off the field. All  

he’s tough,” said third-string quarter­back Caleb Hanie, who led a late come­back bid. “Another thing I know about him is he’s going to stand up for his teammates. He didn’t want to let his team­mates down. So if he could have been on the field and been productive for the team, he would have done it.” 
Receiver Earl Bennett, Cutler’s teammate at Vanderbilt, called the criticism “very unprofessional.” 
Defensive tackle Anthony Adams labeled it “garbage” and “unfair.” 
And tight end Greg Olsen said, “I think it’s insane. I think anyone who’s ever watched us, that would probably be the last thing anyone’s ever ques­tioned.” 
Yet current and former play­ers alike were doing just that. 
Jones-Drew, who played the first 14 games with a partially torn meniscus in his right knee before shutting it down, posted two comments about Cutler. He first compared the quarterback to former Florida coach Urban Meyer, who resigned in December, then wrote: “All I’m saying is that he can finish the game on a hurt knee ... I played the whole season on one.” 
“I threw out this joke and the backlash came in,” Jones-Drew told The Associated Press in a telephone interview on Monday. “I tried to make it right, but it backfired.” 
Jones-Drew said he was root­ing for Cutler and the Bears on Sunday, and acknowledged the knee injury was serious enough to leave the game. He the medicine in 
pro lockerooms 
this dude comes 

out! I apologize bear fans! ... Folks i never question a players injury but i do question a players heart.” 
The way the Bears see it, Cutler doesn’t owe anyone an apology. They think he’s owed a few, in fact. 
“I can’t even believe I’m sit­ting here talking about Cutler’s toughness,” Angelo said. 
Cutler is often criticized for his demeanor, along with his decisions during games. But his toughness? That’s a new one. 
No one took a bigger pound­ing this season. 
The league-leading 52 sacks barely reflected the number of hits he absorbed. He was con­stantly under pressure, partic­ularly in the early going, and even when he runs, he’ll often take the tackle rather than slide. He did it again at least once against the Packers. 
“We’re in a perception busi­ness,” Angelo said. “I certainly didn’t like what was said. I take that personally, too. He’s our quarterback. We wouldn’t have been where we’re at without him, and I want that to be made clear. We stand by him.” 
Green Bay defensive lineman 

B.J. Raji said he also thought the criticism was “pretty wrong and a lot times it has a lot to do with jealousy.” 
“We hit the guy pretty hard, we broke out some different angles, all different places on the field,” Raji said. “I mean, he is a warrior. Any time a player has the longevity that he has had in this league you are a tough guy.” 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 25, 2011 

SMC SWIMMING 


Belles drop MIAA match at Albion 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
Despite strong individual event performances from the trio of Ellie Watson, Audrey Dalrymple, and Kate Griffin, the Belles’ squad lost to MIAA defending conference champion Calvin 179-113 on Friday and to Albion 169-115 on Saturday. The two losses left Saint Mary’s still searching for a team meet win as they dropped to 0-4 in meets this season. 
In the season’s final home meet on Friday, Belles sopho­more Watson shined against the experienced Knights, winning the 500-yard and 1,000-yard freestyle with times of 5:21.93 and 10:55.48, respectively. Her 1,000-yard freestyle perform­ance placed her third in the Saint Mary’s record books for the event and was her first sub­11 minute performance in the event while at Saint Mary’s. Watson closed the day with a second-place finish in the 200­yard individual medley by half a second with a time of 2:21.93 over Calvin’s Elizabeth Schleh. 
Junior Dalrymple led the Belles Friday with three indi­vidual victories in the 100-yard breaststroke (1:10.82), 200­yard breaststroke (2:30.49), and 200-yard individual medley (2:18.71). 
Sophomore Katie Griffin took first in the 100-yard backstroke 
(1:02.90) and the 100-yard but­terfly (1:01.69) after leading the 


Henley 
continued from page 16 
the better conference teams as long as the Belles keep focused. 
“I definitely believe we can beat teams like Hope and Calvin,” Henley said. “But we need to play 40 minutes of solid defense.” 
Calvin sopho­more forward Carissa Verkaik’s 20 field throughout both events. Sophomore Kristyn Gerbeth was 14-hundredths of a second faster than her closest competi­tion in the 100-yard freestyle (57.79), earning her another individual victory. 
The Belles placed poorly in both relay races, with the “A” team finishing no higher than third. 
Saturday’s meet offered the Saint Mary’s both a chance to comeback after Friday night’s performance and a challenge as they took on a well-rested Albion team. But the results proved much of the same as Friday’s. 
Watson again earned first in the 500-yard freestyle and 1000-yard freestyle, while Dalrymple placed first in the 200-yard individual medley. Griffin also contributed to the effort with two wins in the 100­yard butterfly (1:03.87) and 100-yard backstroke (1:03.61), topping the competition by over one second. 
The Belles once again strug­gled in the relays, with the “A” and “B” teams taking second and fourth, respectively, in both the medley and free relays. 
Saint Mary’s will look for a win in its last MIAA meet before the conference championships on Saturday when they take on Hope and Alma at 1 p.m. in Holland, Michigan. 
Contact Matthew Unger at munger3@nd.edu 
“We need to play 40 
points and 12 season. rebounds and minutes of solid “From there sophomore for-we started 
defense.” 
ward Julia trading bas-Hilbrands kets and career-high 19 Jenn Henley weren't able points led the Belles coach to get alot of Calvin responded with a 10-0 run in just over two minutes to extend their lead to a game-high 22 points and never looked back. 
The Knights never trailed in the game and held at least 15-point edges in both points in the paint and bench points. 
Although it snapped their win streak, the loss allowed the Belles to reevaluate their game plan as they advance to the remain­der of their 
Knights’ offense and helped keep the Belles at a distance. 
A 65 percent first-half shooting effort from Calvin coupled with the Belles’ 27 percent shooting from the field put Saint Mary’s in a 14-point halftime hole. 
Just eight seconds into the second half, Saint Mary’s cut the Knights’ lead to 12 with a layup from junior forward Kelley Murphy, who finished the game with 19 points and a team-high nine rebounds. 
stops to chip 
away at their 
lead,” Henley said. “As we move forward into the second half of con­ference play, we have to real­ly focus on our defense and cut down our turnovers.” 
Saint Mary’s returns to action on Wednesday night as they host Olivet (6-11, 5­4). Tip-off is scheduled for 
7:30 p.m. at Angela Athletic Center. 

Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 



DAN JACOBS/The Observer 

Forward Scott Martin fres over the Georgetown defense in a Dec. 29 win at Purcell Pavilion. 
Martin had 10 points Monday at Pittsburgh. 
Senior guard Scott Martin added a free throw to give 


Brey 

Notre Dame a five-point lead, continued from page 16 boosting his tally to 10 points, and Hansbrough broke loose Hansbrough held Gibbs for one last lay-up with only 
nearly  seven  19 seconds  
points below his  on the clock  
season average and added seven  “I think one of the  to the  provide Irish  
assists and four rebounds to his own totals. Notre Dame’s last eight  reasons we weren’t very good on the road, I don’t think I was  their win-ning mar-gin. Senior for- 
points from the floor came cour­tesy of  very good on the road.”  w a r d C a r l e t o n Scott added  
Hansbrough,  16  points,  
who logged 39 minutes, includ­ing a two-minute  Mike Brey Irish coach  carried by a five-of-six p e r f o r m - 
span in which he  ance  from  
scored on three  behind the  

straight Irish possessions, 3-point line, along with nine capped with a lay-up at the rebounds. 
2:34 mark to put Notre Dame After losing the previous up 53-49. three road games by a total of 

Casey 
continued from page 16 
ready for a record season. 

“Lauren has been having a great year and has already had an impact on the team,” Casey said. “Her energy and positive attitude has encour­aged people in practice and meets and will continue to. I think Lauren is going to have a break-through year and have great swims at Big East.” 
Scott credited part of her success to her mental tough­ness. 
“I think that I have always been obnoxiously confident,” she said. “It may not always be the best quality, but in 

Mathews 
continued from page 16 

This season, the Irish seem poised to make another run at the Final Four. It is certainly one of their goals. 
Mathews’ experience at Notre Dame has benefitted her both personally and academi­cally, and she already realizes the value of such a career. 
“It teaches you both respon­sibility and humility because you quickly realize that you are a part of something really unique and special,” Mathews said. 
Collectively, the team has a work ethic that drives them to continuously improve. Irish swimming, confidence is just as important as training hard. Swimming demands confi­dence because of the high lev­els of mental endurance it takes to withstand the rigor­ous training as well as the high pressure meets.” 
And the best part of being a successful student-athlete at Notre Dame? 
“I think it is a compilation of being surrounded by 20 of your friends while also com­peting at the highest level in the sport that you truly love. How many people can say that they get to do that every day?” she said. “I also know that I have developed into a much better team player and leader because of my time here.” 
Regardless of her success in 
coach Jay Louderback pushes his players and demands the best of them because he knows that they can achieve great things. 
“I think everyone’s work ethic on our team is great,” Mathews said. “Everyone brings a.high level of intensity to each practice and work­out.” 
Mathews describes her own playing style as an all-around game, not focusing solely on a strong serve, forehand, back­hand or net play. She wants to be able to control the entire court. 
“I try to play an all-court game, and am comfortable whether on the baseline or being aggressive and coming to the net,” Mathews said. 
52 points, Brey opted to utilize Notre Dame’s ‘Burn’ offense against Pittsburgh (19-2, 7-1). The slow-paced offense reduced the number of pos­sessions each team had, and it limited Pittsburgh’s advan­tages in both athleticism and bench-depth. 
“I think one of the reasons we weren’t very good on the road, I don’t think I was very good on the road,” Brey said. “I think the key was we defended and defensive rebounded in the last five minutes of the game when we had to.” 
Forward Gilbert Brown led Pittsburgh with 13 points, fol­lowed by guard Brad Wanamaker’s 12 points. 
The Irish have more than a week off before heading to 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
the pool, Scott is confident she will never be distanced from her friends, even follow­ing graduation. 
“Every girl on the team brings in a different dynamic that helps everyone train harder at practice each day. Even once my last meet is over and I have graduated from Notre Dame, I know that my teammates will still be a very important part of my life,” she said. “Being on such a small team allows me to be close with all of my team­mates. And, most importantly, I know that I will always have someone to make pancakes and go sledding with at 3 a.m.” 

Contact Megan Golden at mgolde02@saintmarys.edu 
With a team loaded with freshman talent, it is particu­larly important for the veter­ans to step up and lead by example. Mathews embraces her role as a leader. 
“Our freshmen have responded well,” Mathews said. “We have great team chemistry, and are looking for­ward to a very successful sea­son.” 
After a strong fall season, the tough Big East slew of opponents stands in the way between the Irish and another run in the NCAA tournament. 
Up next for the Irish is a matchup with Yale on Jan. 29 at the Eck Tennis Center. 


Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

Tuesday, January 25, 2011 The Observer u TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 


HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK


PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Tuesday, January 25, 2011 page 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Busted streaks 

Hansbrough ignites offense as the No. 14 Irish topple No. 2 Pittsburgh for frst true road victory 

DAN JACOBS/The Observer 

Senior guard Ben Hansbrough pulls a crossover on a Georgetown defender Dec. 29 at the Purcell Pavilion. Hansbrough had 19 points 
and seven assists as the Irish traveled to Pittsburgh and knocked off the No. 2 Panthers Monday. 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
No. 14 Notre Dame entered Monday night with two dis­heartening streaks on its mind: its own season-long three-game road losing streak and second-ranked Pittsburgh’s 20-game home-winning streak. A 56-51 Irish victory quickly reversed both runs, handing the Panthers only their 12th loss at home in the past nine seasons. 
“We have had good wins … We’ve probably not had a bet­ter win,” Irish coach Mike Brey said in his postgame interview. “Coming here, not having had a good win on the road, to play this team there … To stay mentally tough and to stay with our plan, I’m real­ly proud of our group.” 
Senior guard Ben Hansbrough led all scorers 

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING  ND WOMEN’S TENNIS  
Scott having breakout  Mathews ready to compete  
season for Notre Dame  Junior embraces challenge of collegiate athletics, academics  

By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
Although training was the primary focus of Notre Dame’s team trip to Hawaii over break, the Irish also learned much about sophomore Lauren Scott, both in the pool and out. 
One of those teammates was senior captain Katie Casey, who grew closer with Scott throughout the trip and their time spent away from the pool. 
“I roomed with Lauren for two weeks in Hawaii for the training trip and we laughed the entire trip,” Casey said. “We both love country music and are annoying everyone with our amazing country singing. She loves quoting the YouTube video saying, ‘Ouch, Charlie,’ which always makes me laugh.” 
Scott agreed her sense of humor was memorable. 
“Swimming has enabled me to compete at very high levels, but I have learned that I remember crazy jokes or funny moments with team­mates more than any personal victories,” she said. “Traveling around the country with my teammates for meets comprise the best moments in my swim­ming career.” 
Pleased with her improve­ment throughout the two-week training trip, Scott believes the team gained momentum for the remainder of the season. 
“Training trip this year was my best Notre Dame experi­ence to date,” she said. “We all trained incredibly hard, but we also had an amazing time experiencing Hawaii. I am so excited for our upcoming meets because I know our team will have an opportunity to show off all of our dedica­tion.” 
Despite beginning her career in the seventh grade, Casey said the team believes the Fayetteville, Ga., native is 
see CASEY/page 14 
with 19 points, even though he missed his first five 3-pointers of the night. With Notre Dame (17-4, 6-3 Big East) down two points midway through the second half, Hansbrough fired his sixth long-range attempt of the night. Suddenly, the Irish led 42-41 in Petersen Events Center. 
“Ben, again, I don’t know how he does it physically after what he did Saturday night,” Brey said, referencing Hansbrough’s 39-minute effort in Notre Dame’s 80-75 victory over Marquette. “To come back and handle the ball, and then to guard [Pittsburgh’s leading scorer Ashton] Gibbs all night, and play the whole game.” 

Hansbrough held Gibbs nearly seven points below his season average and added seven assists and four 
see HANSBROUGH/page 17 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 

Junior Shannon Mathews admits that being a student athlete at Notre Dame is a challenging and demanding endeavor. Playing for a team that is consistently in the run­ning for a national champi­onship requires the utmost effort each and every day. And as a student, the University expects her to perform aca­demically..“The tradition of excellence at Notre Dame in all sports is really intimidating initially,” Mathews said. “On the field and in the classroom, Notre Dame athletes are expected to excel.” 
But Mathews would not have it any other way. 
“The friendships, personal memories and bonding experi­ences on long road trips are things I will cherish for the rest of my life,” Mathews said. 
Among the most memorable of moments during Mathews’ time at Notre Dame is the trip to the Final Four two seasons ago, the furthest the program has ever advanced in the NCAA championships. Mathews was a crucial part of the run. 
“Celebrating with my team-
SMC BASKETBALL 
Mahoney’s big night not enough 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Despite a career-high 23 points from junior guard Patsy Mahoney, Saint Mary’s fell to Calvin 74-60 on Saturday in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
The Belles (12-6, 5-4 MIAA) started off slow, allowing the Knights (15-3, 9-0) to jump on a 9-0 run fueled by six early Saint Mary’s turnovers. Both teams were sloppy all game, each turning the ball over 25 times. 
“Turnovers have been a problem for us all season long,” Belles coach Jenn Henley said. “Calvin is cer­tainly a good team, so at times, their defense definite­ly disrupted our offense, but we also had some unforced turnovers due to forcing passes and not reading each other in our offense.” 
With the loss, the Belles’ three-game win streak was snapped while Calvin extend­ed its own to a season-high six-game streak — including a one-point win over previ­ously undefeated and top-ranked Hope College — and maintained its place atop the MIAA standings. 
Regardless of the loss, Henley doesn’t doubt the strength of her team against the better conference teams 
see HENLEY/page 14 


mates and coaches my fresh­man year when I clinched our first NCAA Final Four in histo­ry is a moment I will never forget,” Mathews said. 
see MATHEWS/page 14 






