
Monday, October 31, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Notre Dame 56, Navy 14 
Sailing past Navy 
Lockdown defense and dynamic running game lead Irish to 56-14 victory over Navy 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
The Irish faced a tumultuous seven days prior to their game against Navy on Saturday. Notre Dame lost to its archri­val the previous week, senior starting defensive end Kapron Lewis-Moore suffered a season-ending detached MCL and Irish coach Brian Kelly apologized to his team Friday for comments he made to the media the day before. Yet despite these po­tential challenges and distrac­tions, the Irish (5-3) rolled to a dominating 56-14 win over the Midshipmen (2-6). 
A well-balanced offensive attack led the way for Notre Dame, as the Irish accumulat­ed 260 passing yards and 182 rushing yards, finishing with a final advantage of 442-229 in total yards. 
The Irish started the game quickly when sophomore quar­terback Tommy Rees hit senior receiver Michael Floyd on Notre Dame’s first play from scrim­mage on a quick pass which Floyd turned into a 25-yard gain. Senior running back Jo­nas Gray eventually capped the opening 70-yard drive with a 4-yard touchdown run. 

On Notre Dame’s next pos­session, Rees again opened the drive with a pass for big yard­age when junior receiver Theo Riddick took a screen for 37 yards. Junior running back Cierre Wood ended the drive by scoring on a 1-yard sweep to up with strong field position, second quarter. been through a couple of tough “But at the end, like all fami­give the Irish a 14-0 lead after the Midshipmen were able to While the Irish offense had times, but to see him bounce lies, if there’s a disagreement, the first quarter. cut the deficit to 14-7 when a strong first half, the defense back like that and go down the if there’s any kind of need to 
“We felt in the first couple of sophomore quarterback Trey was equally effective, limiting field, I feel great for him.” communicate, it needs to get drives. It was important to get Miller found junior running Navy to 100 yards of offense af-While the Irish cruised to done and we did that. We com-off to a good start after not get-back Gee Gee Greene in the end ter the first 30 minutes thanks victory, it didn’t appear it municated with each other as a ting off to a good start against zone on a 9-yard touchdown in large part to junior lineback-would be so easy after a poten-team and as a family and you USC,” Kelly said. “We scripted pass. er Manti Te’o’s seven first-half tially divisive comment by Kelly saw it today. You saw a team some plays out, some plays that But the Irish didn’t take long tackles, including 1.5 for a loss. when meeting with the media that played together.” we wanted to and we were able to bring the margin back to 14 “Manti is going to make plays Thursday. Smith reiterated the team — to get to them and have some points. On the first play of the when he gets the chance to “You can see the players that the family — has moved past success early on.” following drive, Floyd, who fin-make plays,” senior safety and I have recruited, you know who Thursday’s controversy. 
Gray finished the day with 69 ished with six receptions for captain Harrison Smith said. they are,” Kelly said Thursday. “When you have a family en-yards on 12 carries and three 121 yards, broke behind the “He has such a nose for the “We’ve had one class of kids vironment, when guys all buy scores, while Wood ran the Navy secondary and caught a ball.” that we’ve recruited that I’ve into, ‘One team, one cause, one ball 11 times for 66 yards and 56-yard touchdown. The score became 42-7 when had my hand on. The other family,’ things like that don’t two touchdowns, after the duo “The safety bit and I was Floyd caught a lateral from guys here are coming along. break us up,” Smith said. “They combined for just 43 yards on wide open on the post,” Floyd Rees for a 10-yard touchdown It’s a process. It can’t happen don’t get us off track. If any-nine carries in the loss to USC a said. “I was surprised [at how run with 2:59 left in the third overnight. They’re getting it. thing, they bring us together. week earlier. open I was].” quarter. Gray scored his third They’re making good prog-That kind of showed itself by 
While Gray and Wood ran the The ensuing kickoff from and final touchdown of the ress.” what we did on the field today.” ball hard, Gray was willing to freshman kicker Kyle Brindza game to make the score 49-7 Following a series of respons-As the Irish look toward next give enormous credit for the fell uncaught and was kicked with 13:38 left in the contest. es on Twitter from some of the Saturday’s game at Wake For-success the backs had to the of-near the Navy 20-yard line, After Navy sophomore quar-team’s upperclassmen, Kelly est, they look to continue fos­fensive line for creating holes. eventually being recovered by terback Jarvis Cummings apologized in a team meeting tering that family atmosphere 
“[The offensive line] man-freshman linebacker Troy Nik-scored on a 12-yard touchdown Friday. and strong all-around produc­handled the guys up front,” las at the 22-yard line. Four run, Irish senior quarterback Any division in the locker tion as they did against Navy. Gray said. “We talked during plays later, Gray added a 2-yard Dayne Crist entered the game room appeared unnoticeable “Our big players played big,” the week about breaking the touchdown run to make the for the final Notre Dame drive. Saturday, and Kelly said he and Kelly said. “[We] controlled the wheel with our toughness. We score 28-7 with 9:07 remaining Crist went 3-for-3 on the drive, the team have moved on. line of scrimmage and played knew it started up front. Those in the first half. which ended when freshman “I can tell you that as a fam-great defense. It’s a good recipe guys were hungry to get us to The Irish entered the half up running back George Atkinson ily, we all have good days and for success.” run the ball.” 35-7 when Wood added his sec-ran in the game’s final score. bad days,” Kelly said after the 
After an Irish turnover early ond 1-yard touchdown run of “It was great to see [Crist] game, “and you work through Contact Sam Gans at in the second quarter set Navy the game with 3:37 left in the out there,” Rees said. “He’s that as a family. sgans@nd.edu 


player of the game 
Jonas Gray Notre Dame running back 
Gray led a dominant Notre Dame rushing attack, rolling up three of the seven touchdowns the Irish scored on the ground. 


stat of the game 
100 first-half yards 
Notre Dame limited the normally prolific Navy offense to just 100 yards in the first half and a season-low 229 yards in the game. 

play of the game 
Linebacker Troy Niklas’ second-quarter fumble recovery on a Notre Dame kickoff 
Just after Michael Floyd put the Irish back up by 14, Niklas’ recovery opened the floodgates for a total rout. 


quote of the game 
“We communicated with a each other as a team and as a family and you saw it today. You saw a team that played together.” 
Brian Kelly Irish coach 

page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 31, 2011 
report card 



B+ A­A­A A A­A A­A-
quarterbacks: Tommy Rees had a much better day than last weekend, though he was not asked to do much. Rees still missed a few open receivers and ac­counted for two bad turnovers. 
running backs: Anytime the backfield scores six rushing touchdowns, it has done a great job. Completing screen passes is not as difficult as the Irish sometimes make it seem. 
receivers: Michael Floyd rebounded specatularly, and the receivers found plenty of open space. It would have been nice to see Theo Riddick display a little more top-end speed. 
offensive line: From the first drive to the last one, the offensive line man­handled the Midshipmen. The Irish completely controlled the line of scrim­mage, and it showed. 
defensive line: Missing its two senior ends, the defensive line stepped up in a big way. The young guns played smart, disciplined football in one of the tough­est situations they could have faced. 
linebackers: Other than missing a pass coverage or two, the linebackers helped completely shut down the Navy attack in a very disciplined, smart and physi­cal effort. 
defensive backs: Gary Gray, Harrison Smith and Robert Blanton were excel­lent against the run. The triple option attack simply never found the corner — or any other room, for that matter. 
special teams: George Atkinson had a number of great returns, and Ben Turk’s one punt was solid. Can someone please explain why the punt-block and return unit is so very mediocre? 
coaching: Bob Diaco had his defense ready to play, and Brian Kelly clearly brought his team together after a try­ing week. The only sore spot was not seeing Andrew Hendrix get any snaps. 
overall: The Irish responded to 
the USC loss with one of their best performances all season. Frankly, 
3.74 this team should play like this more often. 

adding up the numbers 
After averaging 6.1 yards per carry inlast year’s contest, Navy was held tojust 3.9 yards per rush Saturday. 

3.9 
7 
Notre Dame scored seven rushingtouchdowns Saturday, the most by an 
Irish squad since 1992. 
Navy fullback Alexander Teich couldnot replicate his 210-yard 2010 perfor­mance, mustering just 62 yards. 

62 
5 
Notre Dame senior running back Jonas

Gray has scored a touchdown in five 
straight contests. 
Navy’s two scoring drives totaled 56 yards, as both came off Irish turn­overs. 

56 
24 
The Irish defense held 24 of Navy’s 50 rushing attempts to two yards or less, 
including six attempts for losses. 
It was a perfect combination of el­egance and power, finesse and utter dominance. 
Navy coach Ken Niumatalolo called it a “full butt-whipping,” the worst outcome in his years facing the Irish. 
Perhaps more than anything else, Notre Dame’s 56-14 victory over Navy, a team that has given the Irish fits in their previous Chris Masoud four matchups, was a welcome Assistant reminder of Managing the sheer talent Editor brimming on Notre Dame’s roster. 

The defense shined, as an under­whelming Midshipmen team was held to just 196 yards on the ground, well below its average of 325 yards coming into the contest. Give credit to the front seven, particularly defen­sive linemen Sean Cwynar and Ste­phon Tuitt, for blowing up the option before it could even develop. 
And then there was Manti Te’o. The junior linebacker tallied 13 tackles, five unassisted, and played some of the most disciplined football of his career. He could not be blocked, mis­directed or out-schemed, turning the Navy option on its head. 
On the other side of the ball, the offense executed Brian Kelly’s game plan to near-perfection. A collected Tommy Rees threw for 237 yards and one touchdown, Michael Floyd caught two touchdowns and the Irish running attack continued its unprec­edented success en route to 182 yards and seven touchdowns. 
The running back combo of Jonas Gray and Cierre Wood (I like “Smash and Dash,” but I’m open to sugges­tions) tallied 135 yards and five touchdowns alone. The duo have become one of the best one-two punches in Division I football, a la Mark Ingram and Trent Richardson of the 2010 Alabama squad. 
In all facets of the game, Notre Dame played together as a unified unit. But the question remains: uni­fied by what? 
Kelly’s post-practice comments last Thursday quickly erupted into a mess of tweets, media specula­tion, accusations, general confusion, censorship and apology. His choice of words was interpreted by many as a general criticism of former head coach Charlie Weis’ recruits on the current Notre Dame roster. 
Despite the removal of controver­sial tweets per the usual situation sterilization, we do know players were visibly upset and confused by Kelly’s comments. 
We do know those same players contributed to an inspiring perfor­mance Saturday, leaving no doubt in anyone’s mind that Weis’ recruits can play Kelly’s brand of football. 
We also know Kelly refers to his team as both a “family” and the football program as a “business,” per Saturday’s post-game comments. I’m not sure the two can coexist. If football is a business, are the players just employees? Are the fans share­holders? If so, was leaving Cincinnati on the eve of the biggest moment in those student-athletes’ lives just a business decision by Dad? 
But perhaps Kelly’s most reveal­ing action Saturday was the one that went unnoticed — naming senior Chris Salvi a gameday captain. A walk-on and a non-scholarship ath­lete, Salvi cannot attribute his pres­ence on the roster to the recruiting efforts of Weis or Kelly. Rather, his passion for Notre Dame and football earned him a place on the team and the 50-yard line Saturday. The deci­sion, a move senior safety Harrison Smith called “awesome,” was well-received by the entire team. 
Kelly never intended to stereotype the vast majority of the Irish roster, playmakers that start at nearly every position. Frustration flowing from a dismal performance against the Trojans can exasperate anyone, even a head coach. 
Both players and coach have expressed they have moved past the issue as a family, and I believe them. The Irish played as a selfless, unified front against the Midshipmen in a dominating performance. 
Notre Dame’s de facto elimination from BCS contention was a shot in the heart for many Irish fans. But with nothing but pride on the line, the remaining four contests of the season still hold tremendous value if they can answer one question: are the Irish  playing unified under Kelly, Notre Dame or themselves? 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 






The Irish came together — but why? 

Monday, October 31, 2011 The Observer u IRISH INSIDER ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


Irish shut down Navy triple option 

By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
For 43 years, it was pretty simple: Notre Dame scheduled Navy, and Notre Dame beat Navy. Starting in 2007 though, the Midshipmen and their option attack upset the bal­ance of power by taking three of four victories from the Irish, averaging 31 points and 287 rushing yards a game. 
The most egregious of those Irish losses occurred last year at New Meadowlands Stadium, when the op­tion burned the Irish for 367 yards on the ground as Navy cruised to a 35-17 victory. After that loss, ques­tions about Notre Dame’s ability to stop the triple option lingered, even after they handily defeated both Army and Air Force. 
After Saturday’s dominant 56-14 win over the Midshipmen though, Irish coach Brian Kelly believes those doubts can finally be forgotten. 
“A great victory for our football team today against a team in Navy that has been very difficult for us to defend, obviously,” Kelly said. “And I think we can put that to rest about our ability to defend a very, very good offensive football team.” 
Especially cathartic for Notre Dame was its ability to stop Navy from running the ball up the middle. After allowing senior fullback Alex­ander Teich 210 yards rushing last year almost exclusively between the tackles, the Irish defense was able to plug the middle and hold Teich to just 66 yards on the ground. 
“Our front was outstanding,” Kelly said. “Our two inside guys didn’t give much. You are not going to talk a lot about them, [freshman defensive end Stephon] Tuitt and [junior defensive tackle Sean] Cwynar, but they were really good inside. They took the fullback away and forced the ball out on the perimeter. Those two guys played very well.” 

The defensive line was indeed the key to stopping Navy on Saturday, even without its two most experi­enced players. Senior Kapron Lewis-Moore suffered a season-ending MCL injury against Air Force, and senior Ethan Johnson was a ruled out as a game-time decision. In their ab­sence, Kelly had to rely heavily on the inexperienced tandem of Tuitt and sophomore nose guard Louis Nix, and the two answered the bell. 
“[Tuitt and Nix], those are the guys that are going to stop the full­back and keep the linebackers free,” senior captain Harrison Smith said. “That might not end up on the stat sheet and they might not get the tackles, but they created the tackles. They created the tackles for loss and the big stops.” 
And with Navy’s offensive line oc­cupied, junior linebacker Manti Te’o was free to create chaos and disrupt the Midshipmen’s offensive flow. Te’o registered 13 tackles on the day, in­cluding three tackles for loss. 
According to Kelly, it was Te’o’s ability to make the right reads and stick to his assignments that allowed the junior linebacker to constantly fly to the ballcarrier. 
“Manti played well,” he said. “He’s very disciplined. Obviously he was in a position where he had to play [the running] back and QB, and he wasn’t guessing. He was very disciplined to­day and played a solid game.” 
And on the other side of the ball, Midshipmen coach Ken Niumatalo­lo was at a loss on how to scheme against or contain his fellow Hawai­ian. 
“The difference for us offensively against their defense was Manti,” Ni­umatololo said. “We could not block Manti. We have been doing this for a long time. We tried a lot of differ­ent schemes and tried a lot of things to block him, but the kid played phe­nomenal.” 
With the defensive front forcing the ball outside and Te’o and com­pany suffocating the run on the pe­rimeter, the Irish were finally able to shut down the option and, for the time being, silence their doubters. While that would be plenty enough for some teams, the Irish look to im­prove further against Wake Forest this weekend. 
“That’s always our goal, is to shut people’s rushing game down, but we’ll watch tape and say we could have held them to less,” Smith said. “We just always want more, and as well as we did today, we’re going to come in tomorrow and we’re going to say, ‘Man, we could have had an even better of a day.’ 
“This was one week, and we got it done this week. But we have a game next week, and we’ve got to move forward.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 




Gray records big day on ground 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Senior running back Jonas Gray scored three touchdowns on Saturday, becoming the first Notre Dame player to rush for three scores since Travis Thomas accomplished the feat against Navy in 2007 and the first to do so in a non-overtime game since Darius Walker in the 2006 Fiesta Bowl against Ohio State. After failing to run for a touchdown in his first 25 collegiate games, Gray has scored in each of his last five games for the Irish. The last Notre Dame running back to score a rushing touchdown in five consecutive games was Ryan Grant, who scored in six straight games in 2002. 

Notre Dame scores on the ground 
Both Gray and junior running back Cierre Wood rushed for a pair of touchdowns in the first half alone. The last time Notre Dame had two running backs rush for multiple touchdowns in a 34-24 victory over West Virginia in 2001, when Julius Jones and Tony Fisher each had two scores. Notre Dame’s seven rushing touchdowns marked the most running scores the Irish have compiled in a single game since a 48-0 shutout of Purdue in 1997, when they also totaled seven. 
Blowout victory 
The 56 points scored by Notre Dame was the most it has scored on a Navy defense since its 58-24 win in 1994. 
The 42-point margin of victory was the largest in the series since 1987, when the Irish defeated the Midshipmen by the score 56-13. 
Rees ties, then breaks own record 
Entering Saturday’s game, sopho­more quarterback Tommy Rees’ lon­gest career completion was a 37-yard toss. He tied that mark in the first quarter when he found junior wider receiver Theo Riddick for 37 yards. In the second quarter, Rees hit senior wide receiver Michael Floyd between the safeties for a 56-yard touchdown to break the record. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 




scoring summary 
 1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
NavyND  0  14  7 21  0 7 7  14  14 56  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Navy 0 
Jonas Gray 4-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with 4:52remainingDrive: 5 plays, 70 yards, 2:14 elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, Navy 0 
Cierre Wood 1-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with 0:31 remainingDrive: 6 plays, 63 yards, 2:24 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 14. Navy 7 
Gee Gee Greene 9-yd pass from Trey Miller (Jon Teague kick) with 11:06 remainingDrive: 6 plays, 27 yards, 2:42 elapsed 
Notre Dame 21, Navy 7 
Michael Floyd 56-yd pass from Tommy Rees (DavidRuffer kick) with 10:51 remainingDrive: 1 play, 56 yards, 0:22 elapsed 
Notre Dame 28, Navy 7 
Jonas Gray 2-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with 9:07 remainingDrive: 4 plays, 22 yards, 1:37 elapsed 
Notre Dame 35, Navy 7 
Cierre Wood 1-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with 3:37 remainingDrive: 10 plays, 56 yards, 3:59 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 42, Navy 7 
Michael Floyd 10-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with 
2:59remainingDrive: 9 plays, 86 yards, 4:23 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 49, Navy 7 
Jonas Gray 5-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with 13:38remainingDrive: 5 plays, 43 yards, 2:03 elapsed 
Notre Dame 49, Navy 14 
Jarvis Cummings 12-yd run (Jon Teague kick) with
9:25remainingDrive: 2 plays, 26 yards, 0:34 elapsed 
Notre Dame 56, Navy 14 
George Atkinson 1-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with
3:49remainingDrive: 10 plays, 53 yards, 5:36 elapsed 


statistics 
rushing yards 


passing yards 


time of possession passing 


Rees            16-22-237 Miller                      5-13-33 
rushing 
Gray                    12-69  Teich 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 31, 2011 


Bouncing back 
After dropping an emotional contest to USC and after a tumultuous week off the field, the Irish rebounded in powerful fashion Saturday, jumping out to an early lead against the Midshipmen and never looking back. Despite missing senior defensive ends Kapron Lewis-Moore and Ethan Johnson due to injuries, the Notre Dame defense stuffed the Navy triple-option attack that had given the Irish nightmares in three of the past four contests. With seven touchdowns on the ground and another through the air, Notre Dame cruised to an easy victory and improved to 5-3 on the season. 
GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 



TOM LA/The Observer GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 

Clockwise from top: Irish running back George Atkinson crosses into the end zone; tight end Tyler Eifert dives for more yardage; running back Cierre Wood fights off a Navy defender; linebacker Manti Te’o takes down a Navy runner; receiver Michael Floyd holds onto the ball while being tackled. 


