
COMMENTARY 
Irish move on from loss as Orlando awaits them 
The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 28, 2011 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 


Recruits leave ND impressed 
To the weathered and long­time Notre Dame fan, it may seem like the thundercloud that has seemingly hovered above the program for the past 18 years has reappeared. With the Irish primed to take a significant step toward reviving a program rich with tradition, Notre Dame lost a 31-17 debacle to archrival USC last Saturday. 
Everything was set for the Irish to succeed and it appeared Notre Dame had the edge in the rivalry for the first time in a decade. 
The Trojans simply outplayed Notre Dame as any Irish hopes for a BCS bid vanished as quickly as USC junior safety Jawanza Starling picked up a botched snap and scampered 80 yards into the end zone. 
What does this mean for the state of the program, now more than halfway through Irish coach Brian Kelly’s sec­ond season and with a medio­cre 4-3 record? 
It’s not nearly as bad as you might think. 
Changing the culture at a program that has struggled for quite a while is no easy task. Because of smoke-and­mirror starts by former Irish coaches Tyrone Willingham and Charlie Weis that pro­duced 8-0 and 19-3 records, respectively, many are under the assumption not only that it is easy, but also that such early success should be ex­pected. 
In the current here-today­gone-tomorrow climate of college football and the pres­sure to win (and quickly) at an all-time high, no one wants to hear the W-word at a big-time college football program like Notre Dame, but I’m going to use it anyway: Wait. 
Kelly is building a winner and stocking depth through­out the roster. While recruit­ing success is necessary but not sufficient to game success, the second-year Irish coach is taking the right steps as the program’s CEO. He knows how to win and has proven it at three previous stops, al­beit none with the day-to-day pressure that comes at Notre 

Andrew Owens 
Associate Sports Editor 

Dame. 
The way the team responds to the USC loss this weekend and down the stretch will show a lot about its character and motivation, especially now that “their gift bag won’t be as big,” as Kelly said. 
With the goal of a BCS bowl berth now out of reach, the Irish have as strong an idea of where they will be over the holidays as they have had in a while. If they finish 7-5, 8-4 or 9-3, the result is almost assur­edly the same — the Champs Sports Bowl in Orlando, Fla., on Dec. 29. 
Kelly said the approach will remain the same even with the BCS bid off the table. 
“So the moment for us, it never gets too big,” he said af­ter the loss Saturday. “In other words, we didn’t think in big picture terms. I’ll talk to [the media] in big picture terms.” 
While in no way should the team scrap the remainder of the 2011 season to improve its chances in 2012, the final five games will provide the Irish coach the opportunity to evaluate much of his young talent. 
With senior defensive end Kapron Lewis-Moore out for the season, freshmen Aaron Lynch, Stephon Tuitt and Chase Hounshell have to mature even quicker and will play a larger role on Satur­days. 
Sophomore quarterback Andrew Hendrix should get an extended look in the last five games, experience that could prove invaluable in 2012. With next year’s schedule about as daunting as it comes, Hendrix will need all the game repeti­tions he can get before being thrown into the fire, regard­less of what his role proves to be. 
It’s time for the online mes­sage boards to settle down and trust the plan that Kelly and his staff have put in place. As former Irish coach Lou Holtz once said, “You’re never as good as everyone tells you when you win, and you’re never as bad as they say when you lose.” 
And, right now, Notre Dame is in between good and bad. Time will tell if the thunder­cloud is ready to move along. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
A week after hosting its larg­est group of visiting recruits in recent memory, Notre Dame will host no official visitors this weekend against Navy, Irish re­cruiting expert Mike Frank said. While a number of 2013 play­ers will make unofficial visits to campus, the focus on the 2012 signing class is still largely on the aftermath of last week’s bonanza of visitors — and Notre Dame seems to have done well. 
“I think a lot of guys came out impressed,” said Frank, who runs the ESPN affiliate Irish Sports Daily. “Notre Dame put their best foot forward as far as the game atmosphere goes. 
“I think the player walk is a huge thing for these kids. They get how much Notre Dame foot­ball means to Notre Dame fans when they walk down the street and all the fans are screaming at them, trying to get them ready for the game. Those types of things have a huge impact on these play­ers.” 
While the atmosphere im­pressed a number of recruits, Frank said the result of the game often plays a large role in a re­cruit’s decision. 
“I do think the game is impor­tant, more important than people realize,” Frank said. “How you stack up against USC is impor­tant to the [California players]. They’re leaving all the way from Southern California to come to South Bend, and I think they want to know that Notre Dame’s going to be competitive with them. 
“Most of these kids don’t want to play on a losing team.” 
While the Irish may have lost to the Trojans, Frank said the loss presents unique recruiting op­portunities of its own. 
“They can go up to these guys and say ‘You’re the missing piece that gets us over this hump,’” Frank said. “I’m sure that’s the angle they took, and that’s really the truth. They’re just a few play­ers away from being a very good team. 
“Some kids want to be a part of building a winning team, which Notre Dame certainly has that opportunity to sell.” 
While Notre Dame may have sold a number of undecided play­ers last weekend, Frank said it was too early to tell which play­ers they may have been. 
“I don’t think we’ll really know for sure until a couple of weeks down the road,” Frank said. “None of these players are prob­ably going to decide right away and so when you’re really going to know how Notre Dame did is a couple weeks down the road when these players are visiting other schools and checking out other schools. 
“If Notre Dame’s still high on their list after a couple more vis­its, then you have a pretty good idea of how well Notre Dame did. I don’t anticipate anybody com­mitting anytime soon.” 
Speculation swirled this week around California defensive back Tee Shepard, who has committed to Notre Dame and planned on enrolling early. There appears to have been a miscommunication between Shepard and the Notre Dame administration, but the is­sue appears to have been cleared up between the University and the high school senior. While some suggested Shepard would decommit if he could not enroll early, Frank said it was far too early for that speculation. 
“I just think some things need to be clarified and I think that that’s all being worked out,” Frank said. “I don’t know where the mix-up was or why it hap­pened, whether there was a mis­communication or what the situ­ation was, but I think right now that it is a situation that will be resolved one way or another. He’s not decommitted at this point.” 
Shepard reaffirmed his com­mitment to Notre Dame via his Twitter account Tuesday evening. 
After a whirlwind week of re­cruiting, Frank said the most important thing to remember is that with months before National Signing Day, much is still up in the air. 
“Recruiting is always a roller-coaster ride,” Frank said. “This time last year Notre Dame had dropped a couple games and it seemed like the wheels were falling off. Then they got back on the winning streak and then next thing you know, they close recruiting strong. So no matter what happens between now and the end of the season, all this stuff can change. We’ll just have to see how Notre Dame closes their season. 
“I think a lot of recruits, espe­cially a lot of the leaning ones, are taking a wait-and-see approach to Notre Dame to see which di­rection they’re heading. I think by the end of the year you’ll see them finish the season strong.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com. 
Email Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 



‘An incredible asset’ 
By learning from others while inspiring others, Te’o serves as one of the nation’s best 
By ANDREW OWENS  have a general idea of what  ness, everybody’s doing small  
Associate Sports Editor  plays they’re going to run,  things and just focusing on  
where it’s going to go, who’s  that and all the bigger things  
Each Saturday in the Notre  going to get it by just the way  are falling in place.”  
Dame locker room, a warrior  they line up, and that comes  
applies eye black to his face  from my film study and really  NFL dreams on hold  
and quietly envisions his role  helps me.  Once the season is over,  
in the battle that is about to  “[Defensive  coordina­ Te’o will have a difficult deci­ 
ensue. If Manti Te’o seems  tor Bob] Diaco and [safeties  sion to make: Declare for the  
contemplative,  it’s  because  coach  Chuck]  Martin  have  NFL Draft with a year of eli­ 
he is — in everything he does.  especially  helped  me  with  gibility remaining, or pass up  
“When  I’m  preparing,  I  that film study and cleaning  millions of dollars and return  
somet i mes  up what I look  to  school  with  unfinished  
like to have  at and focus- business to accomplish.  
my quiet  little zone  “When I’m preparing, I sometimes like to have  ing my atten­tion on certain  “The only thing that I’ve been working on is to help  
and just re­flect and me d i t at e and really focus in, but overall  my little quiet zone and just reflect and meditate and really focus in, but overall I’m just really cheerful, really friendly.”  things so I can apply it.” Te’os impact on the pro­gram is not limited to his  my team win and playing the best brand of football that I could possibly play and just enjoying every moment,” he said when asked about the looming choice.  
I’m just re­ on-field  per- One thing he did say about  
ally  cheer- Manti Te’o  formance  on  it should come as no surprise  
ful, really f r i e n d l y,”  junior linebacker  Saturdays. He is the caliber  — his family and faith will be heavily involved in the evalu­ 
the  junior  of player who  ation.  
l i nebacker  ignites a pro­ “I think [my counsel when  
said. “I just try to relax. I feel  gram, and Notre Dame was in  deciding] is going to be very  
whenever I try to focus too  desperate need of a defensive  small,” Te’o said. “Just the  
much and get too psyched for  jewel to complete its 2009 re- people who I know are in it  
the game it hinders me a bit  cruiting class when Te’o com- for my best interests — of  
and doesn’t allow me to just  mitted to the Irish.  course my parents and fam­ 
play, so I’m rather loose, but  “So we could have lost Man­ ily, the coaches — so when  
still very calm.”  ti Te’o in terms of the football  that time comes we’ll make  
A calm before the storm,  player,”  Irish  coach  Brian  the proper decision.”  
really. Te’o has recorded 69  Kelly said.  
tackles, eight-and-a-half for  “What we would have never  The bond between master and  
loss and four sacks in the  overcome is the leader that  pupil  
first seven  contests  of  the  he is. So when people talk  Te’o has developed a close  
year, all team-highs. The No.  about the complete package,  bond with Diaco since the de­ 
1 defensive prospect coming  it’s that he carries that same  fensive coordinator arrived  
out of high school who chose  pride with him in everything  at Notre Dame in December  
Notre Dame over USC has  that he does. And that’s what  2009. MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer  
done nothing to disappoint  he brings to our football pro­ “Coach  Diaco  has  really Irish junior linebacker Manti Te’o attempts to tackle an Air Force  
in his three seasons with the  gram. And that’s why there’s  been that father figure away ball carrier Oct. 8 at Notre Dame Stadium. The Irish won, 59-33.  
Irish.  never a day that he’s not look- from home,” Te’o said. “His  
If it  seems  like he’s been  ing to be better. And I think  door is always open to me and  standout 5,000 miles away  pick up on characteristics he  
around the ball even more  it’s the pride that drives that.”  the rest of the LBs, so he’s al­ from home has found a fa- can add to his performance.  
this year than in his fresh- Even after last Saturday’s  ways been that guy that we  therly figure at college, it’s  “As far as collegiate line­ 
man  and  sophomore  cam- loss to USC dropped Notre  can talk to, that guy I can call  the impact Te’o has had  on  backers go, everyone’s dif­ 
paigns, well, it’s because he  Dame from BCS contention,  at 2 in the morning if some- Diaco that is remarkable.  ferent,” Te’o said. “I don’t pay  
has. Te’o attributed the im­ Te’o said he continues to hit  thing’s troubling me. I didn’t  “He’s such a rare, special  too  much  attention  to  that,  
provement to his preparation  the field everyday with the  feel like I couldn’t call him.  person and package,” Diaco  my teammates tend to do  
while watching  film  during  same mentality to improve.  “He was always there, he’s  said. “He’s an incredible asset  that for me. For me I focus on  
the week.  “My  hopes  are  still  the  always there and you just  to the student body and the  who’s the best overall and to  
“It definitely has helped me  same,” he said. “My hopes are  have that level of trust and  classroom. He’s an incred­ me that’s Ray Lewis, Patrick  
to know and have a general  to win every game, to play  respect with him and the  ible  asset  Willis,  Dick  
idea of where the offense is  the best ball I can play and to  family.”  obviously to  Butkus,  all  of  
going,” Te’o said. “Before the offense steps on the field I  help my team win … Every­body’s getting back to busi- While it should come as no surprise that a defensive  our football team. “He’s in­credible to any kind  “So we could have lost Manti Te’o in terms of  the football player. What we never could  them. “So I to mimic gameter them try my  af­ and  
of  friend  have overcome is the  watch them all  
circle,  so- leader that he is.”  the time. If I’m  
cial  circle  watching  any  
that he’s in­volved with. He’s an in- Brian Kelly Irish coach  l i n e b a c k e r s and keeping track of line- 
c r e d i b l e  backers,  it’s  
asset to his  them.”  
family  and  Te’o  said he  
the people that really love  studies the behavior of those  
him. He’s been an incredible  linebackers  on  game  day,  
asset in my life, just as some- but also their approaches in  
body I enjoy being around.”  other facets of life that help  
While proud of the inspi­ them succeed.  
ration he is to others includ­ “[I like] their intensity, how  
ing Diaco, Te’o attributed his  they move, how they live their  
character to his roots.  lives. With Ray Lewis, every­ 
“It’s  definitely  humbling  thing he does on film study to  
and it definitely goes to show  workouts,  work ethic, faith,  
that my parents raised me  dedication, that kind of stuff.  
the right way,” he said. “And  I try to learn from them and I  
I just hope to pass that on to  want to be the best.”  
people I come in contact with  Naturally,  the  introspec­ 
and for them to realize that  tive  junior  linebacker  has  
wherever you go, whoever you  considered what he wants his  
meet, you never know what  lasting legacy to be when he  
kind  of  impact  you  might  takes off the blue and gold for  
have on them.  the final time, whenever that  
may be.  
Learning from the best to be the best  “When I leave here I want everyone to remember No. 5  
Te’o  was named  a semi- and in order to do that, I need  
finalist for the Dick Butkus  to be the best and if I want to  
Award, given annually to col- be the best, I have to do what  
lege football’s top linebacker.  the best do.”  
While he is a standout at the  

COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer 
Irish junior linebacker Manti Te’o reaches for the football in Notre Dame’s 15-12 win over Pittsburgh position, he studies the best Contact Andrew Owens at on Sept. 24. He recorded 10 tackles and one sack in the victory. at the professional level to aowens2@nd.edu 
IRISH PASSING IRISH RUSHING IRISH OFFENSIVE 
After an explosive effort Notre Dame struggled might-COACHING against Air Force, junior quar-ily last weekend against USC, The coaches have a tall task terback Tommy Rees and the managing just 41 rushing yards in getting Notre Dame emotion-Notre Dame offense took a step in the entire game. Part of the ally and mentally ready after backward under the lights last low total was due to playcalling, last week’s night game specta­


Head-to 
weekend against USC. but a large part of it was simply cle. If the Irish can put together 
Rees struggled to find senior  due to a strong performance by  a strong first quarter, though,  
receiver Michael Floyd and only  the Trojan defensive line, which  they will be in good position.  
junior tight end Tyler Eifert was  smothered nearly every Notre  Navy has struggled in the first  
able to pick up the slack. The  Dame run that wasn’t around  quarter, going four games with- 
passing  game  showed  signs  the edge.  out a touchdown in the opening  
of life but never found a clear  Navy is no USC. The Midship- period. If Notre Dame can open  
rhythm. On the other side of the ball,  men rank 103rd in the country in rushing defense, allowing  up a lead, Navy is not a team that plays well from behind.  Notre Dame Offense  
Navy has a mediocre pass de­fense, ranking 61st in the coun­ just under 200 rushing yards per game. While Navy junior  EDGE: NOTRE DAME  
try and allowing its opponents an average of over 275 yards through the air per game. Even worse, the Midshipmen rank 111th in the country in defen­ defensive end Jabaree Tuani has recorded 15.5 tackles for loss this season, the rest of the Midshipmen front seven is not nearly as stalwart against the  WR WR  7 16 6 9  TJ Jones DaVaris Daniels Theo Riddick Robby Toma  So. Fr. Jr. Jr.  
sive pass efficiency.  run.  
Notre Dame has also occasion- Junior running back Cierre  
ally shown an ill-timed propen­sity for interceptions, as each of the three losses the Irish have suffered was marked by turn­overs. Navy has demonstrated  Wood and senior running back Jonas Gray should be able to find some running room against Navy. That will be crucial as Notre Dame looks to put to- RB  20 25  Cierre Wood Jonas Gray  Jr. Sr.  LT LG  70 72 66 76  Zack Martin Nick Martin Chris Watt Andrew Nuss  Jr. Fr. Jr. Sr.  
a capability to force turnovers when its opponent plays sloppy. This matchup comes down to  gether sustained drives in order to try and control the clock, as Navy’s option attack leaves the  QB  11 10  Tommy Rees  Dayne Crist  So. Sr.  C  52 57  Braxston Cave Mike Golic Jr.  Sr. Sr.  
whether Rees makes good de­cisions. If he does, he will find open receivers.  Irish with little time to be inef­ficient, which hurt the Irish in last year’s defeat.  RG  78 65  Trevor Robinson Conor Hanratty  Sr. Fr.  
EDGE: NOTRE DAME  EDGE: NOTRE DAME  RT  75 74  Taylor Dever Christian Lombard  Sr. So.  
IRISH SCHEDULE Sept. 3 South Florida  TE  80 18  Tyler Eifert Ben Koyack  Jr. Fr.  
(L, 23–20)  
Sept. 10 @ Michigan (L, 35-31) Sept. 17 Michigan St. (W, 31-13) Sept. 24 @ Pittsburgh (W, 15-12) Oct. 1 @ Purdue (W, 38-10) Oct. 8 Air Force (W. 59-33) Oct. 22 USC (L, 31-17) Oct. 29 Navy Nov. 5 @ Wake Forest  IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS Notre Dame’s special teams have come a long way from the be­ginning of the year, when the Irish were making mistakes left and right. Ben Turk is finally punting consistently — though not quite as long as the coaches may want — and Kyle Brindza is a weapon on kickoffs. Punt returns may be an area of weakness, but getting MIchael Floyd involved in that facet of the game seems to have improved John Goodman’s hands as well. By this point, every Irish fan knows about George Atkinson on kickoff returns. The electric freshman gives Notre Dame a threat to turn the tables on any opposing score, and when he doesn’t take it all the way back, he gets good field position too.  3 Michael Floyd Sr. WR 81 John Goodman Sr. Notre Dame Defense  
Nov. 12 Nov. 19 Nov. 26  Maryland Boston College @ Stanford  EDGE: NOTRE DAME  CB  12 23  Robert Blanton Lo Wood  Sr. So.  

Notre Dame Specialists 
45 Darius Fleming Sr. 

22 Harrison Smith Sr. 
OLB 
46 Steve Filer Sr. 

97 David Ruffer Sr. S 15 Dan McCarthy Sr. 
PK 
90 Ethan Johnson Sr. 48 Dan Fox Jr. DE 19 Aaron Lynch Fr. 
35 Ben Turk Jr. 
P ILB 
44 Carlo Calabrese Jr. 
9 Louis Nix So. 

50 Ryan Kavanagh Sr. NG 98 Sean Cwynar Sr. 
5 Manti Te’o Jr.
   60 Jordan Cowart Jr. 
LS ILB 
54 Anthony McDonald Sr. 7 Stephon Tuitt Fr. 
DE 
50 Chase Hounshell Fr. 

81 John Goodman Sr. 
PR 
6 Theo Riddick Jr. 
55 Prince Shembo So. 

26 Jamoris Slaughter Sr. 34 George Atkinson Fr. S 17 Zeke Motta Jr. OLB 56 Troy Niklas Fr. 
KR 28 Austin Collinsworth So. 
4 Gary Gray Sr. 

27 Kyle Brindza Fr. CB 
2 Bennett Jackson So. 

KO 
Predictions 
Allan Joseph 
Sports Editor 

Halloween is here, and I’m terrified. The Irish are trying to regroup after an emotionally draining game. Even worse, Notre Dame will try to defend the triple option without one senior defensive end and with another hurt. 
The Midshipmen feel like a better team than their record shows, and a win would be the statement they are 
looking for. And, of course, they have been the Boogeyman in this rivalry for the past four years. This game sets up like an absolute nightmare. 
It won’t be. When everything favors the Irish (see: last week), they often lose. Now everything favors Navy. That should mean Notre Dame will win, thanks to a receiving corps Navy simply cannot cover. Yet Notre Dame Stadium could easily turn into a house of horrors by the time night falls Saturday. 
Douglas Farmer 
Editor-in-Chief 

It’s a bittersweet symphony, this season, trying to make ends meet. 
And right there is the problem — ends. Senior defensive end Kapron Lewis-Moore is now out for the sea­son, and his classmate and coun­terpart Ethan Johnson is not yet enjoying a fully-healthy ankle. 
Of all the positions to suffer 

these losses, this was the spot the Irish could least afford them this week. Navy’s option has plagued Notre Dame in recent years, and Lewis­Moore’s and Johnson’s experience against it were Notre Dame’s best bets at stopping it. 
Well, so much for that. 
So, for the fourth time in the last 48 years, prepare for the worst. 
Make that the third time in the last three years. 
Eric Prister 
Senior Sports Writer 

Notre Dame’s defense was out­matched and out-manned against USC. Now both starting defensive ends, one of the most crucial po­sitions in stopping the option, are hampered by injuries. The Irish had significant problems stopping the option against the Midshipmen last year, and did not fair particu­

larly well against Air Force’s simi­lar attack. 
But Navy is not a team that can come from behind. And if Notre Dame’s offensive weapons — namely Mi­chael Floyd and Cierre Wood — who are severe mis­matches for all of Navy’s defense, can get the Irish an early lead, then they should be able to hold on to it. 
Expect a high-scoring game, but the Irish will bounce back and come out on top. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, Navy 24 FINAL SCORE: Navy 31, Notre Dame 24 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38, Navy 27 
NAVY OFFENSIVE NAVY RUSHING NAVY PASSING COACHING It’s pretty simple: Navy is a The Midshipmen rarely, if 
The Midshipmen are one of the nightmare on the ground. The ever, throw the ball. The vast smartest teams in the country, Midshipmen triple-option at-majority of their offense relies committing very few penalties tack is very effective, and it al-on the triple option, and the and turnovers. In addition, Navy lows Navy to compete against quarterbacks are far more ad­
o-Head boasts a squad skilled at execut-teams far bigger and faster. ept at reading defensive ends on 
ing its complex schemes. Fullback Alexander Teich had option plays than reading cov-
In last year’s meeting between a field day last year against the erages on standard pass plays. these two teams, Navy coach Ken Irish and has only gotten more Navy ranks 117th out of 120 Niumatalolo outcoached Irish dangerous this year. As a whole, teams in passing yards, earn-defensive coordinator Bob Diaco. the Midshipmen rushing at-ing just 109 yards through the Don’t think either coach has for-tack ranks third in the country air per game. gotten. and averages 325 yards on the Senior quarterback Kriss 
ground per game. Proctor is out with an injury 
EDGE: NAVY Defending the triple option this week, and sophomore Trey requires discipline, especially Miller will take his place. Miller at the defensive end and outside has seen some minor game ac-linebacker positions. Senior tion this year, but the Midship­
5 David Sperry         Jr. defensive end Kapron Lewis-men will miss their starting CB 11 Kwesi MItchell                 Sr. Moore will be sorely missed, as quarterback. 



Navy Defense 
23 Chris Ferguson Fr. 
the Irish will rotate a number Outside of senior cornerback 
FS 6 Shawn Lynch So. 
of inexperienced freshmen in Robert Blanton, Notre Dame’s his place. Notre Dame struggled secondary has struggled with 
9 Tra’ves Bush Jr. 
OLB to defend Air Force’s triple op-inconsistency throughout the 
10 Jarred Shannon Sr. 
tion on the ground earlier in the season. The safeties, especially year, and without Lewis-Moore, senior captain Harrison Smith, 98 Jabaree Tuani Sr. 57 Caleb King  Sr. life will be even harder for the will be largely focused on stop­
38 Matt Brewer  Jr. 
DE 90 Jamel Dobbs So. ILB Irish. ping the run, leaving the cor-Irish coach Brian Kelly has nerbacks alone. The only dan-
NG 
91 Jared Marks Sr. 
said that “yards don’t matter” ger zone is if the defensive backs 
99 Wes Henderson Jr. 
51 Matt Warrick Jr. when defending the option, and decide to play the run instead of ILB 44 Max Blue Sr. he’s right. Navy will roll up a covering the receiver they are 
59 Josh Dowling-Fitzpatrick Jr. 
DE lot of yards — and is completely assigned to cover. Either way, 99 Wes Henderson Jr. 
capable of scoring quite a few the Navy aerial attack will not points on the ground, too. be the focus of the game. 
50 Brye French Jr. 
OLB 
42 Mason Graham Sr. EDGE: NAVY EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
11 Kwesi Mitchell Sr. ROV 9 Tra’ves Bush Jr. NAVY SCHEDULE 24 Parrish Gaines Fr. Sept. 3 Delaware CB 25 Jonathan Wev So. (W, 40-17) Sept. 10 @ Western Kentucky 
NAVY SPECIAL TEAMS 
(W, 40-14) Special teams miscues have cost the Midshipmen three games, Sept. 17 @ South Carolina including last week’s loss to East Carolina in which Navy missed a (L, 24-21) late field goal to tie the game. The Midshipmen have missed four 

Oct. 1 Air Force field goals on the year as well as four extra points, one of which was (L, 35-34, OT) the difference in Navy’s 35-34 loss to Air Force on Oct. 1. 

Oct. 8 Southern Miss While the Midshipmen did have a kick return for a touchdown (L, 63-35) last week, their return game is mediocre overall. The Irish should Oct. 15 @ Rutgers be able to win the field-position battle against Navy and may even (L, 21-20) 


Navy Offense 
steal some points if they can force field goal attempts. 
Oct. 22 East Carolina (L, 38-35) 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME 

82 Doug Furman Sr. Oct. 29 @ Notre Dame 
WR 88 Casey Bolena So. Nov. 5 Troy Nov. 12 @ SMU Nov. 19 @ San Jose State 
33 John Howell Jr. Dec. 10 Army 
4 Bo Snelson Jr. 

SB Navy Specialists 
RT
64 Ryan Basford Sr. 
   76 David Sumrall Sr. 
45 Jon Teague Sr. 

39 Alexander Teich Sr. 
68 John Dowd Jr. 
RG 71 Eric Douglass Sr. FB 37 Delvin Diggs Sr. PK 
81 Pablo Beltran Fr. 75 Brady DeMell Sr. 3 Trey Miller So. PC 71 Eric Douglass Sr. QB 7 Jarvis Cummings So. 
LS 
93 Joe Cardona Fr. 
65 Josh Cabral Jr. 
96 Brian Ackerman Sr. 

LG 71 Eric Douglass Sr. 
PR 
85 Matt Aiken So. 
LT 
78 Andrew Barker Jr. 
76 David Sumrall Sr. 
KR 
34 Marcus Thomas So. 
SB 
21 Gee Gee Greene Sr. 
17 Mike Stukel Sr. 
KO 
45 Erik Soderberg Sr. 
WR 
85 Matt Aiken So. 
86 Brandon Turner Jr. 
Andrew Owens 
Associate Sports Editor 

After dominating Navy without suffering a single defeat for near­ly a half-century, Notre Dame has lost three of its last four against the Midshipmen, including two in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Last year, Navy flummoxed Irish defensive coordinator Bob Diaco with its triple-option. Even with­
out quarterback Kriss Proctor, the Midshipmen still have a solid chance of winning their third consecutive road matchup against the Irish. 
Notre Dame needs to jump ahead early and take ad­vantage of opportunities on offense, as it did against Air Force. 
After being irrelevant in the 31-17 loss to USC, Mi­chael Floyd will torch the Navy secondary on the way to a win. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 35, Navy 24 
Chris Masoud 

Assistant Managing Editor 

It’s only fitting that Halloween weekend features the scariest team Notre Dame will face all season. While Stanford is downright domi­nant, at least you can identify and attribute its success to a Heisman-caliber quarterback and experience at every position. But Navy is a mys­tery because I simply can’t explain 

its ability to walk into Notre Dame Stadium and win. Twice. In a row. 
How hard could it be to limit an option attack you know is coming? Four of Navy’s five losses have come from a total of only eight points. This team is dangerous, particu­larly against an Irish front seven that lacks Kapron Lew-is-Moore and a healthy Ethan Johnson. If Aaron Lynch and Stephen Tuitt aren’t in the backfield early and often, not even “Crazy Train” will help. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 21, Navy 20 



Irish face unique task against triple option 




By CHRIS MASOUD 
Assistant Managing Editor 
High school coaches across the nation have modeled their offens­es on it. Division I defenses have been blindsided by it. Yet this sea­son, five teams have discovered how to limit it. Through thick and thin, Navy employs the option of­fense with the unwavering disci­pline the Academy embodies. 
“[Navy has] seen every single thing that can possibly be done to defend the offense,” Irish defen­sive coordinator Bob Diaco said. “There’s only a few things that can be done — effort, fundamentally sound football, a better under­standing of the plan.” 
Notre Dame will be handed the unenviable task of containing the Navy triple-option offense this Saturday, an assignment the Irish have failed to accomplish in two previous contests against the Mid­shipmen. Navy averages a whop­ping 325 rushing yards and 32 points per game this season. 
“The biggest thing is just to be disciplined,” senior outside line­backer Darius Fleming said. “You have to trust your teammates that they’re going to get their job done, and that allows you to get your job done. If you’re not disciplined, it doesn’t matter about the speed of the game — you just won’t be a good player out there.” 
The task of stopping the ex­plosive Navy offense will be even harder following Kapron Lewis­Moore’s season-ending knee in­jury sustained in the loss to the Trojans last Saturday. 
“It’s very tough as it related to [Kapron],” Diaco said. “He’s a leader out there. He’s got a ton of fundamental work in his base that will be lost, but we’ll just work on the other guys. Coach Kelly’s philosophy for the program is, ‘The next man in,’ and that’s what we’re going to be here.” 
In addition to the loss of Lewis-Moore, senior defensive end Ethan Johnson could see limited action as he recovers from an ankle inju­ry sustained against Purdue. That means the next men in happen to be freshmen. 
Rookie defensive linemen Aaron Lynch, Stephon Tuitt and Chase Hounshell will shoulder the bur­den of maintaining edge contain­ment against the Midshipmen, a handful for seasoned veterans, let alone freshmen. 
“It’s very hard. The young guys are playing roles they really shouldn’t have to be playing right now,” Diaco said. “They’re really not ready to play the amount of reps they’re having to play each week. The discipline and the mental focus necessary to play four quarters against a team like this and be assignment correct on every play — it becomes a chal­lenge.” 
Lynch was flagged for a costly penalty against the Trojans on Saturday, a misstep that kept the Trojan drive alive and eventually led to a score. Irish defensive line coach Mike Elston said Lynch, a player that thrives on emotion, has moved past the incident. 
“Aaron’s got to move his life forward, and he is. He’s doing a nice job of taking accountabil­ity,” Elston said Tuesday. “After the game, he took accountability for his play. It was very poor. His actions were very poor that led to the personal foul, and it affected him all weekend. He came back, and he’s had a great 48 hours.” 
Perhaps the biggest boost for the Irish will come in the form of defensive end Sean Cwynar’s return to full health. The junior has been limited in practice and games due to a forearm cast, which was recently removed. 
Elston said he is confident in Cwynar’s ability to hit the ground running despite limited action Saturday and no defensive snaps during Notre Dame’s Oct. 8 victo­ry over Air Force, a team that also utilizes a triple option offense. 
“Sean feels great with the club off,” he said. “He’s still a little rusty with using the hands. Sean doesn’t have the size, he doesn’t have the strength, he doesn’t have the speed, he doesn’t have the ath­leticism that all those other guys have. What he has is his tech­nique and his instinctiveness and his ability to read blocks.” 
Diaco echoed Elston’s confi­dence in the ability of the front line to read its keys and play disci­plined football. 
“They’re locked in,” he said. “They’re preparing hard. The coaches are working on being as creative as we possibly can to maximize every permissible sec­ond of the allotted time we’re with them, and they’ll be ready.” 

Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 




Walk-on Tansey balances football with NROTC 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Senior Sports Writer 
After time expires on Notre Dame’s annual con­test against Navy, the play­ers from both teams will join together, united, listening to their alma maters. But for one Irish player, the post-game tradition will not be the only time he stands beside his Brothers in Arms. 
Junior offensive lineman Matt Tansey, as he is known on the football field, is known by another name off it — Mid­shipman Second-Class Tan­sey. Tansey is a member of Naval Reserve Officers Train­ing Corps (NROTC), which means after his football days are done, he will don another uniform — that of a Naval of­ficer. 
“I was always interested in joining the military as a kid,” Tansey said. “My grandfa­ther was in the Navy during World War II and the Korean War. So when it came down to choosing a branch, it was the logical choice for me. 
It was a family thing; it was the branch that I saw the best opportunities in. I went the ROTC route because I saw an opportunity to get a scholar­ship to go to college and come to a place like Notre Dame.” 
But when the opportunity to play football at Notre Dame arose as well, Tansey could not turn it down. 
“Notre Dame football was next to the military as one of the things I wanted to do with my life if I got a chance,” he said. “And I got a chance to walk on, so I’ve been here — this is my second full season.” 
But balancing football re­sponsibilities with NROTC re­sponsibilities is no easy task, Tansey said. NROTC allows him to work out with the foot­ball team when times con­flict, but he is still expected to maintain a high endurance level, which at times goes against the type of training he does as an offensive line­man. 
“It’s tough, but it just comes down to working as hard as I can,” he said. “I try as many days, as much as my workload will allow me, to try to work out after practice as well, more Navy-oriented. I try to run as much as I can outside of practice. Past that, it just comes down to trying to be as athletic as I can make my body be while still being an offensive lineman.” 
Help in learning how to balance football and NROTC came from former Irish safe­ty Tom Smith, a fellow walk-on and NROTC member. 
“I’ve been lucky enough to have [Smith], who graduated last year … and was in ROTC even a season before I walked on, so he was a mentor for me, kind of showing me what to do, what came first where, how to stay in shape Navy-wise and football-wise. It’s hard to be lifting for power and running for endurance, which the Navy wants to see. He really helped me balance that.” 

But NROTC has helped Tan­sey as a football player as well. 
“Discipline,” Tansey said. “Hands down, discipline. Through ROTC summer pro­grams I’ve spent time with the Marines, spent time on ships, spent time with actual Navy units. And even through the training we do here, learning how we operate as the naval service as a force. 
“Just discipline and what we have to do day-to-day and conduct our business has helped me manage that schedule and just kind of bal­ancing everything out as best as I can.” 
While Tansey said he wants to beat Navy to gain bragging rights over his future ship­mates, the post-game tra­dition and all it represents means even more. 
“Especially with Navy but with all three academies, I love the support that Notre Dame has with them,” he said. 
“It makes me feel that once I do get into the service, even though I won’t be an academy guy, coming from Notre Dame is almost next to that, in that we see the work that they do and try to mirror that disci­pline, that passion as best as we can.” 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 




