the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Malpass garners investment award 

Observer Staff Report 
Institutional Investor maga­zine named University Vice President and Chief Investment Officer Scott Malpass its Large Endowment Manager of the Year, according to a University press release Sunday. 
The award recognizes U.S. institutional advisors whose “innovative strategies and fidu­ciary savvy resulted in impres­sive returns” over the past year. 
“Notre Dame is so fortunate to have an investment profes­sional of Scott’s caliber, and I congratulate him on this well-deserved recognition for his work,” University President Fr. John Jenkins said in the release. “Under Scott’s leader­ship, Notre Dame has estab­lished an international reputa­tion for being prudent stew­ards of its investment resources.” 
Malpass, who began serving as Notre Dame’s chief invest­ment officer in 1989, is respon­sible for the investment of the University’s endowment, work­ing capital, pension and life income assets of $6.2 billion. 
The endowment is the 14th largest in American higher education and the largest at a Catholic university, according to the release. 
During the past 15 years, Notre Dame experienced a 
12.1 percent annualized return on its endowment pool. Malpass led the University to recognition for its innovation in international, private capital and alternative investing. Under his leadership, Notre Dame also developed a philoso­phy of building relationships with leading investment man­agement firms while identify­ing niche investment opportu­nities. 
University Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves said Malpass contributed to the success of many financial ini­tiatives at Notre Dame. 
“This truly exceptional per­formance attests to Notre Dame’s ceaseless commitment to be good stewards of the funds entrusted the University by its donors,” Affleck-Graves 
see MALPASS/page 4 


By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
With close to 750 teams reg­istered for the 40th annual Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Basketball Tournament, the event remains the largest five-on­five outdoor basketball compe­tition in the world. 
The tournament, which began Apr. 1, benefits Jumpball, a charity that runs basketball clinics for impover­ished children in Jamaica. 
“It really focuses on youth empowerment,” tournament coordinator Claire Podgorski said. 
Podgorski said Bookstore Basketball is Jumpball’s largest fundraiser. This year an optional $2 donation was added to the online team reg­istration form, she said. 
“We tried this out for the first time this year to see if it was going to attract a lot of attention, and we were all shocked at how many people voluntarily clicked, ‘Yes, I will donate an additional $2,’” Podgorski said. “It’s incredible because having that clicked a couple hundred times, it really adds up and the money goes really far to Jumpball.” 
In addition to monetary con­tributions, some students are donating their time by volun­teering at Jumpball clinics over the summer, Podgorski said. 

Podgorski said Bookstore Basketball is a Notre Dame institution. 
“It’s all about the tradition,” she said. “This is the 40th year that Bookstore Basketball has been going on. Whether peo­ple pass down costumes or team names or a team theme from year to year, it’s a lot of fun and an absolute riot to go out and see what people come up with.” 
Creative team names and crazy outfits are a focus for many teams, Podgorski said. 
She said some spirited teams playing Sunday includ­ed a team dressed up as 
see BOOKSTORE/page 4 

Snite showcases student art 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 

News Writer  
Growing up in rural New  
Jersey, senior Bachelor of  
Fine Arts (B.F.A.) student  
John Traub developed a fas­ 
cination with urban transit  
and interaction. Applying  
this intrigue to his artwork,  
Traub created “Transpire  
Spaces,” one of several the­ 
sis art projects currently  
featured  in  the  Snite  
Museum’s  2011  Annual  
UND Art Student Exhibition.  
The  exhibition,  which  
opened April 3, is held in  
the Milly & Fritz Kaeser  
Mestrovic Studio Gallery  NICOLE TOCZAUER/The Observer  
see EXHIBIT/page 5  Senior John Traub displays his art project “Transpire Spaces” in the Snite Musuem of Art.  

Record donation given to inspire 
By MADELINE MILES 
News Writer 
A recent donation of $10 mil­lion to Saint Mary’s College Science Hall will not only serve to assist in the renovation of facilities, but also as an inspira­tion to invest in the education of young women in science. 
Alumna Jennifer Mathile Prikkel (’95) and her parents, Clayton and MaryAnn Mathile, donated the funds. The contribu­tion, announced March 26, is the largest single private gift in the history of Saint Mary’s College. 
Clayton and MaryAnn Mathile were former owners of the Iams Pet Food Company. Prikkel, a member of Saint Mary’s College Board of Trustees, said she felt called to donate after touring Science Hall. 
“I was reminded of a childhood memory of my parents and their company,” Prikkel said. “And it collided with what Saint Mary’s does — to educate, to be objec­tive and [to] use your heart.” 
Prikkel said she hopes to reno­vate the facilities and inspire others to follow her example of investing in the education of the young women at Saint Mary’s College. 
“It was to really challenge peo­ple to invest their money in the life of a young woman who not only learns through her mind, but through her heart,” Prikkel said. 
According to the press release, the gift to renovate the Science Hall will support carefully planned, phased improvements to the structure. 
Science Hall will be modern­ized to create new learning and study spaces that encourage stu­dents to collaborate with their peers. Labs will be refurbished and expanded, which will not only help biology, chemistry and physics students, but also sup­port growing programs such as nursing. In addition, updated equipment and technology will be purchased. 
Students and faculty are espe­cially appreciative. Dr. Nancy Nekvasil, chair of the Biology Department, said the contribu­tion is an inspiration to both stu­dents and faculty alike. 
“It also says to students that 
see DONATION/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC supports tsunami relief page 4  Viewpoint page 6  Ever heard of a band called Styx? page 8  Women’s Basketball page 16 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Tuesday, April 5, 2011 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Sam Stryker Megan Veselik Emily Schrank Cory Bernard Adam Llorens Megan Golden 
Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Maria Fernández 
Photo Viewpoint 
Mackenzie Sain Meghan Thomassen 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: W ERE IS T E BEST PLACE TO WATCH T E WOMEN’S C AMPIONS IP? 








Kale Frank  Lauren Katen  Trent McMullen  Jaimie Morrison  Kevin Steinhafel  Francis Vu  
senior  freshman  junior  sophomore  sophomore  prospective  
Sorin  Welsh Fam  Duncan  Pasquerilla West  Morrissey  Off-Campus  
“The Lady Irish  “Anywhere with  “Kildare’s.”  “Pat Cotter and  “The Morrissey  “Reckers.”  
locker room.”  friends and  Ryan Foley’s  Six-Man.”  
fans.”  room.”  


ASHLEY DACY/The Observer Sophomore Victoria DiStefano expresses her disapproval over the 72 plastic bottles that ND students use on average per semester. This sculpture was constructed by GreeND for No Impact Week, which runs until Friday. 
OFFBEAT 
Smooth Georgian criminal sells fake movie posters 
ATLANTA – Federal pros­ecutors say a Georgia man accused of making more than $1 million from the sale of fake vintage horror movie posters has found another way to continue his scheme. 
Kerry Haggard was released on $100,000 bail after he was arrested in April 2010 on mail fraud charges. 
But U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a letter filed Monday that Haggard has since recruited some­one to sell 81 posters and other items on his behalf, defying a court order. He urged the judge to revoke Haggard’s bail and issue a warrant for his arrest. 

Prosecutors say Haggard sold fake reproductions from movies such as “Frankenstein” for $500 to $5,000, bilking victims of more than $1 million over a four-year span. 
A message left with Haggard’s lawyer was not immediately returned. 
Illinois April Fool’s Day prankster fined 
BLOOMINGTON, Ill. – A 16-year-old central Illinois girl has been given $150 in tickets after the worried victims of her April Fool's Day prank called police. 
Bloomington police say the girl texted her friend and cousin Friday morning and said she’d been robbed and shot in the foot. 
The pair called police, who rushed to a home where they found the 16­year-old safe. She hadn’t been robbed or shot. 
The (Bloomington) Pantagraph reports the girl received a $100 ticket for disorderly conduct and a $50 ticket for truancy because she wasn’t in school Friday. 
Police say she could have been criminally charged with filing a false police report. 
Bloomington police spokesman Dave White says the friend and cousin did the right thing. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame Institute for Advanced Study (NDIAS) is holding a conference entitled “Deminsions of Goodness.” The conference moves into its second day today, and will be held in McKenna Hall. 
RecSports is offering free body composition and blood pressure testing this morning from 9 to 10 a.m. in the RSRC Wellness Room. Registration is avaliable through RecRegister. 
Princeton University Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering professor Howard Stone is holding a lecture entitled “Surprises with Laminar Viscous Flows” this afternoon from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. in 258 Fitzpatrick. 
North Carolina State University Chemical and Biomedical Engineering professor Carol K. Hall is holding a lecture entitled “Thermodynamic and Kinetic Origins of Alzheimer’s and Related Diseases: A Chemical Engineer’s Perspective” this afternoon from 3:30 to 4:30 
p.m. in 129 Debartolo. 
“The Two Gentlemen of Verona” opens tonight at 7:30 
p.m. inside the Debartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets can either be purchased at the door or online. 
University of Auckland (New Zealand) professor Brian Boyd is holding a lecture entitled “Nabokov as Psychologist: Routes for Exploration” this afternoon from 4 to 5:30 p.m. in 209 Debartolo. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


Tuesday, April 5, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Conference to discuss ‘the good’ 

By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
News Writer 
What is the nature of “the good?” 
Starting Monday and run­ning through Wednesday, premiere scholars represent­ing Notre Dame and univer­sities across the globe will 
look to answer that question at “Dimensions of Goodness,” a conference hosted by the Notre Dame Institute of Advanced Study (NDIAS). 
The event, hosted in McKenna Hall, aims to draw in per­spectives on “the good ” from mem ­bers of busi­
“As a student of a plans to prevalent Catholic present the final confer-
university, you have to 
ence next engage in the ultimate April, he 
search for goodness. said. NDIAS will 
Students should try to 
be holding 
think about the ultimate 
student semi-
questions.” nars through Wednesday. Stelluto said 
Vittorio Hösle 
Eric Bugyis, 
NDIAS director 
a former fel­
ness, humanitarian, legal, social and natural scientific fields. 
Director of NDIAS Vittorio Hösle said the concept of the event holds particular importance for members of the Notre Dame community. 
“One of the great questions you have to answer as a stu­dent is what is good, ” he said. “As a student of a prevalent Catholic university, you have to engage in the ultimate search for good ­ness. Students should try to think about the ultimate questions.” 
Hösle said he and Associate Director Don Stelluto began preparations for “Dimensions of Goodness ” over a year in advance. 
“We have to invite a distin­guished group 
of speakers because these questions need 
to be “Complex problems Stelluto said. answered in “They are 
are not limited to one 
an interdisci-accustomed to plinary way,” discipline.” work outside he said. “A of a discipli ­student in nary bound ­
Vittorio Hösle 
business may ary, and that is 
NDIAS director
be interested to know what a business ethicist has to say about what is good in business, or a political sci­ence student may want to know what is right when developing countries.” 
Stelluto said acquiring international speakers requires planning and fore­sight. 
“We need to be identifying which questions we want to address one to two years out, which means we have to get on their calendars early on,” he said. 
Stelluto said the institute invites a wide variety of speakers because of the mul­tifaceted premise of the con­ference. 
“Complex problems are not limited to one discipline,” he said. 
Hösle said this year’s con­ference is the second install­ment in a three-part lecture series corresponding with NDIAS’s motto of “Verum, Bonum, Pulchrum,” Latin for “The True, The Good, The Beautiful. ” The institute hosted “Facets of Beauty” last January, and 
low of 
NDIAS, 
would facili­tate the group discussions with a different question for each night. 
“What we want to do is provide a forum for primari­ly undergraduate students so that they don’t feel so intimi­dated, trying to absorb it all, and then wondering, ‘what do I do with it?’ Eric will really engage them on real questions,” Stelluto said. “At these conferences you can hear some of the leading experts of their disciplines and take those robust, rigor­ous questions with you into graduate school and the real world.” 
Stelluto said the confer ­ence demonstrates to stu ­dents how different areas of study are related. 
“[The speakers] pull together different disciplines 
in [a] way that 
Notre Dame 
students 
understand, ” 
how this con­
ference will 
speak to 
them.” 
Stelluto said one of the most important aspects of the conference is its ability to prepare students for chal­lenges they will face in the postgraduate world. 
“[The event will] teach them how academics really work at a high level, ” Stelluto said. “Engaging a historian and biologist will demonstrate what graduate school would be like. Even if they wanted to be a corpo­rate CEO, if they took this approach into the business world — wow.” 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 5, 2011 
SMC supports tsunami relief 
By JULIA HARRIS 
News Writer 
This week Saint Mary’s stu­dents will empty their pock­ets to support relief efforts for victims of the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan, the largest in the country’s history. 
Student government has placed various canisters around Saint Mary’s campus this week to collect spare change and monetary dona­tions from students, faculty and staff members. Designated canisters can be found in each of the resi­dence halls on campus and the student government office located on the second floor of the College Student Center. 
Teaming up with the American Red Cross, stu ­dents will help provide food, shelter and emotional sup­port for the victims of the natural disaster. The organi­zation has agreed to match 
Donation 
continued from page 1 
someone out there does care, and other people do care about what the sciences are doing at Saint Mary’s,” she said. “It’s about gratitude for others and caring to be a part of that.” 
Director of Media Relations Gwen O’Brien said the reno­vation would improve facili­ties for students and faculty alike. 
“The details of the renova­tion include creating learning labs that support an interdis­ciplinary pedagogy, relocating and expanding the computer lab, renovating and replacing lighting and heating, ventila­tion and air conditioning and other systems,” she said. 
According to the press release, a timetable for plans for building and renovations have yet to be determined. 
Contact Madeline Miles at mmiles01@saintmarys.edu 
Malpass 
continued from page 1 
said. “Thanks in no small part to excellent stewardship by Scott and his team, we are able to make steady, and in some instances, transformational progress: meeting the demon­strated financial need of our students, establishing new endowed chairs to attract exceptional faculty, expanding the collections of our Hesburgh Libraries and so much more.” 
Malpass will be honored alongside seven other winners May 16 at the Mandarin Oriental hotel in New York City. 
“I’ve very thankful, not only for this award, but for the Notre Dame alumni, parents and friends who entrust us with their gifts,” Malpass said. “And those gifts — large and small — have allowed this University to grow and flour­ish.” 
I’m also blessed with a won­derful team of professionals who are deserving of this award as anyone else,” he said. 
the total donation, doubling the funds that will be granted directly to the Japanese Red Cross. 
Junior Elizabeth Busam said the tsunami relief effort is more than a collection of spare change. With family in Tokyo, Busam is personally much as possible to relief efforts. 
“We should extend our sup­port and prayers to those affected,” Skirtich said. “We’ll do whatever we can to provide assistance to those in their time of need.” 
As a community that values 
affected by the tragedy. 
She said she “It’s great that encourages students are willing to members of the 
donate their money
Saint Mary’s 
and show their
community to 
participate in support.” 
the project. “It’s great 
Elizabeth Busam
that students 
junior
are willing to donate their money and show their support,” Busam become social responsibili­ty, Saint Mary’s stu­dents and staff can con­tribute sig­nificantly to the tragedy in Japan, Busam said. 
“If any­thing, every­one has 
much more cau-
Bookstore 
continued from page 1 
Waldos, a team in tiger outfits, a Mario Kart themed team and a team dressed in onesie pajamas. 
Freshman Kelsey Cullinan, a member of the team Urine Trouble, said she signed up for Bookstore Basketball to make new friends and stay in shape. 
“I get to play a sport I love in not necessarily the most competitive atmosphere, but just with a bunch of people who want to have a good time,” Cullinan said. 
Cullinan said the charitable nature of the tournament is anoth­er reason she is playing. 
“I think it’s a really good cause. I always think it’s good to push for doing different programs that will help kids in different countries that don’ t have a lot to do and getting them off the street.” 
Cullinan said she is anxiously awaiting her first game, as Urine Trouble drew a bye for the first round of the tournament. 
Freshman Maggie Walsh, a member of the team South Bend Swag District, said she registered for Bookstore Basketball because of its storied tradition. She said her mother played in the tournament when she was a Notre Dame undergraduate. 
“Bookstore Basketball is a great tradition because it brings all dif­ferent types of people together as one in the spirit of Notre Dame,” Walsh said. 
Freshman Margeaux Prinster, also a member of South Bend Swag District, said Bookstore Basketball is a fun campus event. 
“It doesn’t matter whether you win or lose, you just have a good time,” Prinster said. 
Walsh said she found her oppo­nents’ outfits amusing. Members of @sportsguyz dressed as a hot dog, Clifford the big red dog, a surgeon and Elvis Presley, she said. 
Although South Bend Swag District lost its opening game, Walsh said her first Bookstore Basketball experience was memo­rable. 
“Walking onto the court [and seeing our opponents] was the best part,” Walsh said. 
Walsh said the team is already preparing for next year’s tourna­ment. 
“The ‘South Bend Swag District’ will expand next year,” Walsh said. 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
said. “Any way, shape or form that the school can help is important.” 
Student Government Association executive secre­tary Emily Skirtich said stu­dents should contribute as tious,” Busam said. “If a country needs help, as stu­dents we should help where we can.” 
Contact Julia Harris at jharri01@saintmarys.edu 


Tuesday, April 5, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Membersplanawarenessfilm 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Campus Life Council (CLC) debated ways to improve an alcohol education film for freshmen at its weekly meet­ing Monday afternoon. 
Mara Trionfero, assessment and prevention counselor at the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education (OADE), said the video is OADE’s latest attempt at successful alcohol educa­tion. 
“We wanted everyone to have the same basics,” she said. “There are students com­ing in as experienced drinkers and students who have never drank before but are curious. 
Originally, freshmen were required to attend a discussion with student organization Peers Inspiring Listening, 
Learning and Responsible Sociali zing (PILLARS) dur­ing their first week of school. OADE moved the discussion back to the sec­ond semester and focused more on the ini­tial experiences of freshmen after consider­ing the over­load of infor-Trionfero said. 
“Our intent here is to pro­vide the basic education, but we also want it to be a little cheesy,” she said. “We want people to see some of the faces on campus and become famil­
iar with some people and maybe say, ‘Hey, I know that person,’ when they come to cam­pus.” 
The twenty-minute film consists of multiple skits acted out by Notre Dame students, 
“Our intent here is to provide the basic education, but we also want it to be a little cheesy.” 
Mara Trionfero OADE counselor 
interspersed with need-to­know facts on alcohol educa­tion. Topics include Blood Alcohol Content (BAC) levels, 
“Maybe a discussion of things like jungle juice — knowing exactly who made your drink, and how you don’t know exactly how much alcohol is in there.” 
Denise McOkser Badin Hall rector 
the toler­ance levels of females and males and the negative effects of alcohol on school­work, health and relation ­ships. 
Badin Rector Denise McOkser 
mation students receive in their first few weeks, Trionfero said. 
The First Year Studies pro­gram will require incoming students to watch the video on YouTube during the summer, said information regarding the alcohol content of mixed drinks should be added to the video. 
“Maybe a discussion of things like jungle juice — knowing exactly who made your drink, and how you don’t know exactly how much alco­hol is in there.” 
Faculty Senate representa­tive Paul McGinn suggested displaying the mug shots of Notre Dame students who 
have been arrested. 
“They need to know this is real and this does hap­pen,” he said. 
One topic missing from the video is drinking sit­uations that 
are specific to Notre Dame. Former student body president Catherine Soler said football game day drinking should be added. 
“They should realize it’s drinking all day long, that you could get kicked out of the game,” she said. “There are things you may not know if you have never tailgated before.” 
Soler also said NDSP should be referenced in regards to possible consequences of drinking. 
Father Pete McCormick, Rector of Keough Hall, said the overall production quality of the video should be improved. 
“It needs to be a little higher production level,” he said. “It’s such an important topic — it deserves that.” 
Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 
Exhibit 
continued from page 1 
and the O’Shaughnessy Gallery West. It will feature the final projects of the 2011 art studio degree candidates until May 22. 
The exhibition features art­works in industrial and graph­ic design, photography and painting. 
Traub said his project is inspired by where he spent his childhood. 
“My project is a vision of sidewalk spaces for public transit featuring cloud media represented on physical sur­faces,” he said. “The subject of the project, socializing and urban culture, really repre­sents my childhood of living in rural New Jersey but having close access to New York City.” 
Charlotte Lux, a Master of Fine Arts (M.F.A.) student in industrial design, drew inspi­ration from her family’s history with breast cancer for her project. 
The need to gain insight on her project led Lux out of the studio and into active field­work at Memorial Regional Breast Care Center in South Bend, she said. Through exten­sive hours shadowing nurses, interviewing individuals and undergoing a mammogram at a local imaging center, Lux said she was able to analyze all the steps in the biopsy proce­dure. 
“Stepping into the patient’s shoes gives the designer a sense of empathy for what patients experience, making it easier to address their needs through design interventions,” she said. “It gave me a first­hand account of the… awk­ward moments a patient goes through.” 
Lux said her project proposes solutions to improve key com­ponents in the screening and diagnosis of breast cancer. The work emphasizes the impor­tance of nurse-patient informa­tion exchange, the patient gown, visual focal points in the room and the table on which the patient lies on for the biop­sy procedure, she said. 
While Traub and Lux drew inspiration for their artwork from personal experience, other students confronted broad social issues. 
Joseph Small, who is pursu­ing an M.F.A. in photography for studio art, said his project, “Unbearable Whiteness of Being,” exhibits artwork inves­tigating racial identity politics. 
“It deals with what whiteness is, how we deal with that and who is labeled that or not with­in our social construct,” he said. 
Small said studying at Notre Dame has exposed him to a greater variety of art forms than just his area of expertise. 
“Having interactions with faculty in different areas and access to an amazing library system has really changed how I think,” he said. “I came as a traditionalist photographer, but I’m leaving here making paintings, sculptures and audio too.” 
Following graduation, Small said he hopes to pursue a career in education. He said he also hopes to continue to pro­duce thought-provoking art­work. 
“I will keep making art though. I honestly can’t stop doing that,” Small said. “I just hope what I do starts a conver­sation and gets people to talk about how they deal with these topics.” 
Lux said working on her project has steered her career toward research. Firsthand experience, she said, brought her project into the real world from the academic realm. 
“Spending time with the patients and staff and seeing the procedure in person was an invaluable part of the process,” Lux said. “It made the design problem more tan­gible than a merely hypotheti­cal academic design project.” 
After viewing the exhibition, Traub said he would like to congratulate his mentors and fellow students for their out­standing work. 
“I have to thank the Industrial Design program for always overcoming the adver­sity of being somewhat neg­lected in terms of campus exposure and recognition,” he said. “It’s produced a Midwest Merit Winner four out of the past five years, and Notre Dame’s representative has been considered the strongest in the entire Midwest in terms of portfolio.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 


The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Tuesday, April 5, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Wedding capitalizers 
As the royal wedding draws closer, my Anglomania is reaching an all-time high. I mean, I’ve always been fascinated with all things British (Alexander McQueen, “The Queen,” Hugh Grant and obviously Harry Potter). My interest in the royal wedding is just a natural step in my desire to know more about Great Britain. 
However, while watching re-runs of “How I Met Your Mother” Courtney Cox 

on Lifetime, a 
Associate Scene 
commercial 
Editor 
came on screen that made me question the lengths people will go to in order to capitalize off poor royal-watch­ers like myself. The commercial was for “William & Kate,” a movie starring sec-ond-rate actors acting out largely fiction­al scenes in the courtship of Prince William and Kate Middleton. It’s comical that producers are willing to rush a movie to television screens across the country even if that means the story they are telling is false and the quality of the product is very low. 
The makers of the Lifetime movie are not alone. Numerous other companies have produced William and Kate para­phernalia in the hopes of turning a profit because of all the hype surrounding the wedding. 
When the pair announced their engagement, Kate Middleton was wear­ing a royal blue Issa wrap dress to match her sapphire and diamond engagement ring. The dress, though years old, was recreated and flew off shelves within days. The ring was knocked off by any number of jewelry companies including QVC. 
According to People Magazine, a German company has created teabags to commemorate the royal wedding that are cleverly named “KaTEA & William.” They sell for $8.00 a piece and are a ridiculous way to indulge in the thrill of royal wedding mania. 
There will also be a Kate Middleton doll created by celebrity doll-maker (I am still baffled that that’s a real profes­sion), The Franklin Mint. The dolls will be hand painted and only 5000 will be sold. 
Castle Rock Brewery has developed a new brew called “Kiss Me Kate” that hopes to be the beer on everyone’s lips as they toast the happy couple. 
Of course these examples are not the only ones of products created around the image of the royal couple. There are any number of people hoping their trinkets will play a role in the celebration of the wedding of the century. 
The more interesting part about this, however, is that the majority of these companies are not even British. I am beginning to realize that I am not alone in my Anglomania, but my real question is why is everyone else as engaged as I am? Why are German companies creat­ing a tea for the British wedding and why is an American television station filming an entire movie about the love story behind William and Kate? England cast a wide shadow on the rest of the world in centuries past and it’s interest­ing to see that that shadow persists in some sense, if merely in the attention paid to the wedding of William and Kate Middleton. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 

Tomorrow is trash day 
For those of you who have managed not to be bombarded with a “days of the week” refresher from Rebecca Black in the last two hours: Since today is Tuesday, tomorrow will be Wednesday. However, more The GreenMan importantly, tomorrow is also trash day, but not your ordinary “day-everyone-sets­their-trash-outside-on-the-curb” kind of trash day. In fact, it’s quite the opposite. Tomorrow, I challenge you to not use trashcans at all. 
Hold on, before you think the GreenMan is encouraging littering, let me explain. This week, almost 200 Notre Dame students have signed up to participate in No Impact Week, a week-long challenge to reduce the environmental impact of their daily lives. Each day of the week has its own theme, and tomorrow’s theme is trash. The goal for the day is to gen­erate absolutely no trash. So let me clarify my previous statement: Tomorrow, I challenge you to not need to use trashcans at all. 
Fortunately, this challenge should be incredibly easy at Notre Dame. We have a fantastic single-stream recy­cling program, so the only things that should be going in a trashcan are food and liquid wastes. I repeat, only food and liquids go in the trash. Everything else can be sorted by our recycling facility. This means that for us, Wednesday’s challenge, taken at face value, is all about not wasting food. 
I would like to clarify, however, for 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

those of you who love semantics, that even if you don’t directly place your food waste in a trashcan, it still counts against you in this challenge. I’m thinking specifically about the food left on dining hall trays here. You may not personally scrape the food into a trashcan, but the workers behind that magical conveyer belt sure do. 
I know it’s been said in Viewpoint letters before, but the food we waste in the dining halls really does have an impact. The statistic that more than one ton of food is wasted in our din­ing halls each day is an embarrass­ment to our campus. Many people knowingly and unknowingly partici­pated in Waste-Free Week last week, which entered students into a raffle for 100 Flex points if they turned in a clean tray at dinner. Props to every­one who was entered into the raffle. To the rest of you: Consider your­selves called out. This challenge is for you. 
Another way to avoid the trashcan is to opt for composting. So if you want to be able to leave leftovers on your plate without feeling quite so guilty, help campaign for a compost­ing program. Notre Dame doesn’t have one yet, and students showing support for an initiative is one of the best ways to make it happen. Post a dining hall comment card, write a student government resolution or take matters into your own hands and create a compost pile for your dorm. 
Although the challenge for tomor­row is simply not to throw anything away, the ultimate challenge is to not recycle anything either. Wait. Did the GreenMan just tell me not to recycle? No, let me explain myself before you start clamoring to take away my “green” card. The traditional envi­ronmental adage is “reduce, reuse, recycle,” and I would like to suggest to you that these commands are not listed in a random order, but are actually prioritized according to their environmental benefit. Sure, recy­cling is great, but reusing is better and reducing is best. 
Reducing your consumption doesn’t have to be drastic. It doesn’t mean you can’t go get Starbucks, but it does mean you should use a reusable mug when you do. It doesn’t mean you can’t go shopping, but it does mean you should purchase long-lasting products rather than disposables and transport them back in a reusable bag. So for one day (or more), I chal­lenge you to keep track of the impact of your consumption. Make a list of everything you dispose of in one day, then multiply by 8,000 to get an idea of the impact this campus has. 
The GreenMan is an anonymous eco-conscious observer of life at Notre Dame, providing environmental commentary and advice to the campus community since 2010. Feel free to email your environmental living questions to the GreenMan at askthegreenman@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“[T]he safest course is to do nothingagainst one's conscience. With this secret, we can enjoy life and haveno fear from death.” 
Voltaire French author and satirist 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I know the answer! The answer lies within the heart of all mankind! The answer is twelve? I think I'm in the wrong building.” 
Charles M. Schulz 
U.S. cartoonist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, April 5, 2011 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
‘Style’ in the eye of the beholder 
I never thought I’d be compelled to send a letter to The Observer, but the presumptuousness and superfi­ciality of Kevin Brainard’s letter (“Ladies, be decent,” April 4) requires a rebuttal. 
Style is an art, which means it’s receptive to numer­ous meanings and interpretations. The certainty of the author fails to deal with clothes’ ambiguity. His sure­ness also dismisses the complexity of “reputation” and “respect.” These are intricate, subjective concepts: a “good” reputation for one individual might be a “hor­rid” reputation for another. To me, Brainard’s letter doesn’t signify a promiscuous, immoral girl. The girl’s tights and T-shirt suggest someone who is in touch with the chic, contemporary fashion of American Apparel, Urban Outfitters and others. 
Seth Oelbaum 
graduate student off campus April 4 
Imperfection is perfection 
My name is Shannon McDowell, and I have a secret. I’m obsessed. I use two different facial cleansers, two different shampoos, two different lotions, two different types of toothpaste and two towels when I shower. I pace when I talk on the phone. If I misplace a sock I will search for hours until I’ve found it. I’ve never lost a sock. I’m a perfectionist. I’d rather arrive 40 minutes early than one minute late. I tear myself apart in front of the mirror. I worry. I double-check that the door is locked. I fixate myself on the tiny details most people never see. I’m my own worst enemy. 
As I nervously write this, I’m terrified that whoever decides to read it will automatically assume I’m weird, unstable, extreme or just senseless. The truth is that I’m not, and I’m so much more than my obsessions. 
It’s been a long journey, but I’m finally learning to accept that I don’t need be perfect to be loved. I mess up sometimes. I don’t always feel happy. I’ve missed lines and messed up steps. My skin breaks out. I’ve forgotten birthdays. My shoes get holes and my tights get runs. I get sick of the daily routine. I’m definitely not a morning person. I’m human, and I can now appreciate the fact that it’s okay to laugh at myself. 
It takes a lot of courage to ask for help when some­thing isn’t right, but please know that it’s okay to speak up. I’m writing this because I know there are many others who struggle with things like anxiety, food and depression. Please don’t be ashamed, and remem­ber that you are not alone. Talk about it with people you trust, and consider taking advantage of the resources available at the University Counseling Center. If your friends are suffering, support them. We need to stand together as a community and as a family. You are loved, and people really do care. Please don’t ever forget that. 
Shannon McDowell 
sophomore Pasquerilla East Hall April 4 


Spread the word to spread the lotion 
As South Benders finally emerge from a cold, grey winter, I think many of us view the sun as a long lost friend finally gracing us with his pres­ence after a long period of standoffish evasive­ness. Yet, in the midst of rejoicing over the return of the prodigal sun, we tend to forget the hazards of excessive and unguarded association with our sorely missed companion. Last Wednesday, Colette Coyne, an activist from Long Island, NY, came to LaFortune’s Montgomery Auditorium to remind students of these hazards. 
Coyne’s visit to Notre Dame was part of the Colette Coyne Melanoma Campaign. The goal of this campaign is to promote the awareness and prevention of skin cancer — especially melanoma, its most deadly form. On Wednesday, Coyne began with an impassioned story of the tragic death of her daughter Colette Marie, 30, at the hands of a melanoma that was not treated early and spread to her vital organs. According to Coyne, it was her daughter’s death combined with a deeply felt religious calling that inspired the foundation of the campaign. 
The Long Islander proceeded to emphasize that skin cancer is the fastest growing cancer in the United States and projected to be the single most common cancer by 2020. According to Coyne, it claims one life every hour worldwide. The precautions for prevention are simple and obvious — wear broad-spectrum sunscreen, hats and sunglasses and avoid tanning beds — all simple steps that can greatly reduce the risk of skin cancer. 
For my part, I would like first to thank the ladies of Howard Hall who hosted this event and to encourage them as they continue at the fore­front of skin cancer awareness at Notre Dame. As part of this initiative, South Bend Clinic at 2102 E Inwood is offering free skin cancer test­ing from 9 a.m. to noon on April 30 by appoint­ment only (574-204-6000). Also, watch out for Howard’s Dunk the Duck later in April, which will support skin cancer related causes. Secondly, on behalf of Colette and your own bod­ies, I hope to spread the word to spread the sun­tan lotion, and, to women especially, I implore you not to put yourself at risk in the tanning salons. Let’s not make this spring a bitter reunion with our brightly burning buddy. 
Cameron Cortens 
sophomore off campus April 3 
UWIRE 

A world outside Facebook 
My name is Dineen Boyle and I have been Facebook-free for 37 days. 
Last month, I wrote about my plan to deactivate my Facebook profile. 
Since then, I have realized many things about my relationship with the site, the most surprising Dineen Boyle of which is that I don’t 
miss it. The Heights 
Admittedly, the first two weeks were somewhat difficult. I experienced some withdrawal-like symptoms and found myself curious about what I was missing in the social networking universe. The days I spent housebound, recovering from wisdom tooth surgery over Spring Break proved to be the ultimate test. With laptop and smartphone within constant reach, the temptation to log on was intense. It was like dangling bait in front of a shark, or placing drugs in front of an addict, or putting cookies in front of someone who really likes cookies. 
During my absence from the site, I have noticed a marked increase in activities such as doing pro­ductive things. Initially, I turned to other ways to waste an average of about 15-20 minutes a day online. My efforts focused mainly on online shop­ping. These ventures proved mostly unsuccessful. However, I did manage to discover a 50 percent off Groupon for a Segway Tour of Boston (Laminated Certified Segway Driver’s License included). 
Although my procrastination has decreased, I occasionally relapse. I find myself watching YouTube videos of “A monkey and a puppy play­ing” or “Drunk guy attempting to put on flip flops.” But I catch myself and I say, “No, Dineen. No.” I recognize that the existence of such things in my computer history undermines the academic and social credibility for which I strive. 
Overall, I have received mixed reaction from others in regards to my Facebook deactivation. Some have told me that they “admire” my self-dis­cipline and say that they would never be able to kick the habit. Others have mentioned that they are inspired and hope to take a break from the site. Still, there are those who respond, “You don’t have a Facebook?” a glaze of disbelief coating their eyes, behind which their mind calculates a 3 percent possibility that a college student without a Facebook profile could still be a functioning mem­ber of society. I see the fear begin to register on their faces after concluding that I must undoubt­edly be a freak social deviant. 
And upon informing my mother of my intentions to defect from the site, she posed the profound question, “But how are you going to know things?” 
Although I make attempts at humor, I have learned a great deal in my efforts to limit my wasteful online activity. What began as a social experiment has proven to be thoroughly liberat­ing. I recognize that 15 minutes spent here and there procrastinating on Facebook accumulates quickly and is time that could be devoted toward accomplishing productive and meaningful things such as volunteering or better educating myself about world affairs. 
Yet, as I mentioned in my previous column on this topic, I do not intend to vilify Facebook. It allows us an efficient centralized means of com­munication and becomes detrimental to our time management only when we allow it. 
Through my time away from the site, I have been allowed an extrospective view of the extent to which Facebook is ingrained within the lives of our generation. My conclusion: We are incredibly dependent on it. 
Consequently, there are some drawbacks that accompany deactivation. It is remarkable how Facebook has come to monopolize the planning of our social lives and I find myself reliant on friends for information about events. It also takes a little bit more effort to stay in touch with those who live far away. 
Yet despite these minor setbacks, the positives that have accompanied my experience far out­weigh the negatives. I care much less about trivial things with which I once found myself concerned. I have also spent more time engaging in actual telephone, and in-person conversations with my friends. Instead of viewing snapshots of parties or travels, I get to hear their actual voices update me on their lives. 
The good news is that if you are considering leaving Facebook, rest assured knowing that it will not equate to the demise of your social life. 
The bad news is that if you look super awesome in any pictures, you’re going to have to rely on your friends to email them to you. 
As for my experience, I feel oddly empowered … And wicked pumped about my Segway tour. 
This article originally ran in the Mar. 31 edi­tion of The Heights, the daily publication serving Boston College. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Tuesday, April 5, 2011 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Tuesday, April 5, 2011 page 9 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

Page 10 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 5, 2011 
MLB 

Uggla’s homerun lifts Braves past Brewers 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE — Lucky bounce or not, Dan Uggla will take it. 
Uggla’s deep fly ball bounced off the top of the wall and over for a tiebreaking home run in the eighth inning, helping the Atlanta Braves to a 2-1 victory over the winless Milwaukee Brewers on Monday. 
“I knew I hit it good. I knew I hit it low,” Uggla said. “I didn’t think it was going to carry that far.” 
Atlanta trailed before Martin Prado led off the eighth with a homer off Takashi Saito. With two outs, Uggla connected against Saito for his second homer with the Braves. 
Uggla, who was 2 for 13 heading into the game and was­n’t happy with his first three at-bats Monday, said he was happy to give his new team a lift. 
“I was maybe a little bit over­anxious on my first three at-bats,” Uggla said. “To get the go-ahead home run, that was a pretty cool thing. It’s my first week with a new team in the season and a lot of excitement.” 
Peter Moylan (1-0) got three outs to get the victory, and Craig Kimbrel struck out the side in the ninth for his second save. 
Before the eighth-inning rally, the Braves failed to muster much offensive support for starter Brandon Beachy, who gave up four hits, including Rickie Weeks’ homer, in six innings while striking out seven. 
“He gets in some jams,” Braves manager Fredi Gonzalez said. “He doesn’t give in. He makes some tough pitches. His stuff got better as the game went on. His command of the breaking ball got better.” 
Weeks continued his impres­sive start for Milwaukee with his third homer of the season leading off the third. 
Beyond that, it was the con­tinuation of an ugly start to the season for the Brewers, who were swept in a three-game series at Cincinnati. 
The Brewers aren’t overre­acting to their rough start, but they’re certainly frustrated. 
Asked for his thoughts on the loss, Milwaukee third baseman Casey McGehee paused, then chuckled. 
“What do you want me to say?” he said. 
McGehee acknowledged that the Brewers need to play better, but they also could use some good luck. 
“We had a ball hit the top of the wall and bounce away from us,” McGehee said. 
Saito (0-1) struck out Nate McLouth and got Chipper Jones to ground out before Uggla hit a deep fly ball to left-center that hit off the top of the wall and bounced over. 
“He hung a breaking ball to Uggla,” new Brewers manager Ron Roenicke said. “It was the right pitch, he just hung it a lit­tle bit.” 
Ryan Braun had a one-out single in the eighth, but Prince Fielder hit into a double play to end the inning. 
Milwaukee squandered a strong outing by Chris Narveson, who struck out five in six sparkling innings. The left-hander allowed only three singles and three walks — and he picked off one of those baserunners, McLouth, in the first. 
Beachy, who made three starts last season, won a spot in the Braves’ rotation with a strong performance in spring training. 
“He was locating his fastball well,” McGehee said. “The mid­dle part of the game, he started to find his breaking ball and being able to locate it. That’s usually a pretty good recipe for having some success.” 
Beachy got into trouble in the first, but McGehee flied out with runners on first and sec­ond to end the inning. 
Weeks put the Brewers in front in the third, hitting a 2-1 pitch deep to left. 
Brewers shortstop Yuniesky Betancourt doubled in the sec­ond for his first hit of the sea­son, then added a single in the fourth. Betancourt was acquired in Milwaukee’s offsea­son trade with Kansas City for Zack Greinke and started the season 0 for 11. 
Milwaukee couldn’t take advantage of a scoring chance in the fourth, putting runners on second and third with one out. Back-to-back strikeouts by Wil Nieves and Narveson ended the inning. 

Beachy got better as the game went on, retiring nine straight batters after his shaky start to the fourth. 
“He did the same thing that he’s done all spring that I saw him do: He battled his butt off,” Uggla said. “Never gave in. He gave us just an amazing effort and gave us a chance to win the ballgame.” 
Despite the tough start, Weeks said the Brewers aren’t getting discouraged. 
MLB 

Reds look to remain unbeaten as they take on Astros 
weakest division. They went 49-Ball Park despite nasty weather. were disabled by shoulder prob-homers on Sunday. “I think we 
Associated Press 

30 against the Central, posting The Reds didn’t disappoint, win-lems and starter Bronson Arroyo rode that in the last two games. 
CINCINNATI — The defending winning records against every-ning opening day on Ramon came down with mononucleosis. Once we got rolling, we kept NL Central champions have one except the Cardinals. Hernandez’s two-out, three-run So far, no problems. Left-han-pressing. We know this team is opened the season playing like They’re at it again. homer in the ninth. They then der Travis Wood took Bailey’s capable of scoring five or six they belong in first place. “Whoever we play against, it’s finished the sweep. spot in the rotation and beat the runs in a hurry.” 
And, maybe more. very important,” second base-“Honestly, I think it does more Brewers in the second game. The third game showed them 
The Cincinnati Reds swept man Brandon Phillips said. for the city than it does for us,” Arroyo, who has lost eight at their best, piling up 19 hits — their opening series against the “We’ve got to try to get as many said Phillips, who had a three-pounds and loses energy on the the most they had in any game Milwaukee Brewers, considered wins as possible because we’re run homer on Sunday. “It just mound, went seven innings to last season — and four homers. one of their top challengers in not trying to wait until the last shows the city, lets them know complete the sweep. Twelve different players had at the division. The Reds and the minute to try to clinch some-that we’re here, we’re going to The Brewers became a trendy least one hit. Philadelphia Phillies — the team thing. Of course, it’s important to do this again, and y’all just bet-pick to overtake the Reds after “Everybody contributed,” that swept them in the first beat teams in our division.” ter make sure you keep coming they acquired starters Zack manager Dusty Baker said. “It round of the playoffs — were the Phillips isn’t the only one out here to support us because Greinke and Shaun Marcum in can be contagious. It was just a league’s only unbeaten teams thinking about clinching so soon. we really need them. the offseason. Greinke is out big weekend, and to go 3-0 left on Monday. The Reds started winning back “I think it means more to the with a cracked rib, and the Reds against a team you know is 
A win at home over Houston fans with their playoff push last city because we know what we got to Marcum early while win-going to be there at the end is on Tuesday night would give the season, and it’s carrying over. can do and what we’re going to ning the second game of the big. But there’s still a long way Reds their first 4-0 start since They drew only 1.7 million fans do.” series. to go.” 1990, when they led their divi-in 2009, their smallest gate The Reds brought their cham-Brewers pitchers walked 13 The Reds have a favorable sion wire-to-wire and won their since 1986. That increased by pionship team back virtually during the series. By contrast, schedule as they wait for Cueto last World Series championship. more than 300,000 last year, intact, spending more than $150 the Reds walked only five bat-and Bailey to get back. They It would also continue their when the Reds surprised every-million in the offseason to lock ters, two of them intentionally. have six games against Arizona, domination of NL Central rivals. one by pulling away from the up young players for years to “Ever since the walk-off home four against Pittsburgh, three 
The Reds made the playoffs division. come. They ran into problems in run, the momentum has been in against Houston and three for the first time in 15 years by They packed them in for the spring training, when starters our favor,” said catcher Ryan against San Diego in the next 17 beating up on the rest of the NL’s first series at Great American Johnny Cueto and Homer Bailey Hanigan, who had a pair of days. 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
DREAM KITCHEN, 10' CEILINGS,  
FOR SALE  HARDWOOD FLOORS, 3 BED­ROOMS, 2-1/2 BATHS.  NOTICES  PERSONAL  
ITALIANATE-STYLE NINETEENTH  MASTER SUITE W/BALCONY.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  If you or someone you care about  THE CHRIST OF UMBRIA - “It’s good to be back in New York. I  
CENTURY ARCHITECTURE.  has been sexually assaulted, we  have lived here ten years. I’m origi- 
WIDE PROJECTING EAVES;  LOWER LEVEL FAMILY ROOM  Don't go it alone.  can help.  nally from Indiana. I know what  
ORNATE BRACKETING.  W/2 EGRESS WINDOWS, FULL  Enchanting and unforgettable!  most of you are thinking: Indiana:  
BATH.  Notre Dame has many resources in  Mafia. But the fact of the matter is  
CONSTRUCTION NOT COM- place to assist you. If you or some- For more information, visit Notre  where I grew up there was some- 
PLETE  CALL Kim Kollar, Weichert,  one you love needs confidential  Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu  Read this wonderful stage play on  thing very similar to the Mafia.”  
Realtors  support or assistance, please call  Kindle @ Amazon.com, under  
OFFERING NEW OWNER MANY  Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more  Books!  
CHOICES. 4 BLOCKS FROM  574-274-7440  information, visit ND's website at:  
CAMPUS.  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Tuesday, April 5, 2011 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
MLB 

Key witness in Bonds trial rediscovers tape 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Prosecutors in the federal case against Barry Bonds say a key witness has rediscovered the tape of a secretly recorded 15­minute conversation with the slugger’s doctor, sparking a fight between the government and defense lawyers over whether the new material can be includ­ed at a trial years in the making. 
On a day when there was no testimony because a juror was ill, the government said Monday that former Bonds business partner Steve Hoskins found a cassette recording of his conver­sation with Dr. Arthur Ting. 
Prosecutors, hoping to counter Ting’s testimony last week that he never discussed Bonds’ alleged steroid use with Hoskins 
— who insisted they had — said both men might be recalled to the witness stand. 
“Mostly, I could hear Mr. Hoskins. I could hear very little of what Dr. Ting said,” U.S. District Judge Susan Illston told lawyers late Monday. She added that that from what she could discern, the new recording was “almost entirely inadmissible or irrelevant.” 
The trial began March 21, and prosecutors had planned to rest their case Monday with Dr. Don Catlin, former head of the UCLA Olympic Analytical Laboratory. But they now plan to call three lab workers, raising the govern­ment’s witness total to 25. That, plus the new evidence, makes it likely the case won’t go to the jury before next week. 
Hoskins, the government’s second witness, testified he recorded a conversation with Ting discussing Bonds and steroids in 2003 or 2004, after federal agents raided the Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative (BALCO). BALCO was found to be the center of a steroids distri­bution ring, of which Bonds’ personal trainer was a part. 
Ting testified last week that he had only one, general conversa­tion with Hoskins about steroids and he denied Hoskins’ testimo­ny that the two had as many as 50 discussions about Bonds and performance-enhancing drugs. 


Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. — A green jacket defined the golden era of European golf. 
For the better part of two decades, Europeans seemed to have part-ownership of Augusta National by winning the Masters six times in a seven-year stretch, and 11 times in the 1980s and 1990s. Seve Ballesteros was the first European in a green jacket. Nick Faldo won three times. Ballesteros, Bernhard Langer and Olazabal each won twice. 


Perhaps it was only fitting that when the world ranking made its debut in 1986 at the Masters, the top three were Europeans. 
“It would be nice to recreate some of that magic,” Justin Rose said Monday under the large oak tree next to the Augusta National clubhouse. “And I think this is as good a time as any.” 
On paper, European golf has never been stronger. 
They have won two of the last three majors — Martin Kaymer in a playoff at the PGA Championship, Graeme McDowell at Pebble Beach in the U.S. Open. Padraig Harrington was the last player to win successive majors, at the end of 2008. 
And then there’s the world ranking. 
Europe would have had the top five spots except for Phil Mickelson winning the Houston Open to go to No. 3. As it is, Kaymer and Westwood are Nos. 1 and 2, with Luke Donald, McDowell and Paul Casey at Nos. 4-5-6. Tiger Woods is at No. 7. 
About the only thing missing from this new era of European dominance is a green jacket. 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 5, 2011 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles improvement leads to solid performance, wins 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
If the Belles were looking for a win, improvement and solid play over the weekend, they got it. And then some. 
Saint Mary’s rolled through its slate of weekend matchups, losing just one match as it defeated Trine 9-0 Saturday and North Central 8­1 Sunday. 
Saint Mary’s (7-5, 1-1 MIAA) entered Saturday’s match 
singles divisions, losing just 16 games on the way to a 9-0 finish. 
Senior Jessica Kosinski dominated in doubles play with freshman Mary Catherine Faller, as the duo won 8-0 at the No. 3 doubles spot. Kosinski also earned a 6-0, 6­0 sweep at No. 2 singles. 
According to Belles coach Dale Campbell, the winning result and the team’s first conference victory was the most significant part of the weekend. 
“It’s always good to get a conference win — they’re all-important,” he said. “We did well in the doubles, and we took care of business.” 
Following its conference win, Saint Mary’s faced North Central in a non-conference match-up Sunday, where the 
“Winning only boosts 
against the Thunder (3-7, 0-2) your confidence, so I looking to rebound 
think we really came
after a midweek 
ready on Sunday.” 
loss to conference foe Albion. The Belles swept both Dale Campbell the doubles and 
Belles coach 
Belles con­tinued their winning ways. Many teams come in overcon­fident after such a bl owout, but Campbell felt his players showed the experience 
and poise to avoid that pitfall. 
“I don’t think it was a prob­lem,” he said. “Winning only boosts your confidence, so I think we really came ready on Sunday.” 
The Cardinals (10-4) were unable to handle the Belles’ energy in a contest highlight­ed by its two senior captains, Franca Peluso and Jillian Hurley. Both Peluso and Hurley lost the first set of their singles matches, but ral­lied back to win in late tiebreakers. Peluso won 5-7, 6-0, 1-0 (10-2) at No. 5 sin­gles, while Hurley claimed No. 1 singles 6-7 (5-7), 6-4, 1-0 (12-10). 
Campbell noticed definite improvement in Hurley’s play, which helped her earn the win. 
“[Hurley] is generally an offensive player, and she was able to win like that because she cut down on her mis ­takes,” Campbell said. 
While these two wins cer­tainly bolstered their record and pointed them back in the right direction, the Belles may not be able to enjoy them for too long. Perennial MIAA con­tender Olivet swings into South Bend Wednesday in a rematch of last year’s MIAA playoffs. 
“It’s good to get these two wins,” Campbell said. “But now we’ve got a big confer­ence match with Olivet on Wednesday to focus on.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon wheffero@nd.edu 
NFL 
Goodell discusses use of drug tests in NFL 
Associated Press 
WOODLAWN, Md. — One of the hundreds of high school students attending an assem­bly Monday about the dangers of performance-enhancing substances wanted NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell to answer this question: 
Why is there more drug use in baseball than football? 
Goodell began his response this way: “I’m not sure that’s true.” 
While making sure to emphasize that he believes the NFL’s drug-testing pro­gram is a strong one, Goodell acknowledged that it can be improved, and said the league will insist that its next labor deal with players — whenever there is one — includes test­ing for human growth hor­mone. 
“We’d be naive to think that people aren’t trying to cheat the system. But we have to have the best testing program to be able to offset that,” Goodell told reporters after joining Rep. Elijah Cummings, 
a  Maryland  Democrat,  to  
speak  to  area  students  at  
Woodlawn  High  School  in  
Baltimore County.  

“I made it clear to the kids 
in the room today that the integrity of the NFL is critical, and we need to make sure we’re doing everything possi­ble to have the best drug pro­gram in sports,” Goodell said. “Making changes to our pro­gram is critical and we have done that over the years. We need to do more, including the inclusion of HGH testing.” 
Preventing athletes from using HGH is a key target in the anti-doping movement. The substance is hard to detect, and athletes are believed to choose HGH for a variety of benefits, whether they be real or only perceived 
— including increasing speed and improving vision. 
HGH use is prohibited by the NFL, but the league’s old col­lective bargaining agreement did not have testing for it. Goodell thinks players “recog­nize the importance of” adding HGH tests. 
The NFL Players Association has opposed blood tests in the past but did say last summer it would be open to hearing a proposal from the league dur­ing CBA talks. Goodell said Monday that HGH was “part of a broader proposal on where we go with our drug program.” 


Tuesday, April 5, 2011 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Sullivan 
continued from page 16 
starting all 18 games and fin­ishing with 16 goals, sixth-best on the team. She has started all 10 games so far this season, tallying five goals and one assist. 
Having a sister on the same team isn’t an uncommon trend in lacrosse since the sport is often popular in entire fami­lies, Megan said. 
“Obviously some brothers and sisters want to distinguish themselves,” she said. “I know a lot of siblings end up going to the same school though.” 
Megan said her visit to Notre Dame with her mother senior year sealed her fate. Her younger sister experi­enced the same feelings two years later. 
“We definitely both fell in love with the school,” Megan said. “I came out here first with my mom, and she fell in love with Notre Dame too. 
Then when Lauren came she felt the same thing as me.” 
The familial presence on campus turned out to be quite the blessing for Lauren, as she suffered a sea­son-ending knee injury in January. Megan 

EILEEM VEIHMEYER/The Observer Junior midfielder Megan Sullivan moves the ball up the field during a game against Northwestern on November 19. 
said she was able to comfort ready to go in the fall. I think her sibling and help her think she’ll be fine and ready to 
posit ively about the sit­uation. 
“We defnitely both fell “It was defi­nitely good for 
in love with the 
her to have 
school.” 
me here,” Megan said of Megan Sullivan her younger sister. “I just 
junior midfelder 
let her know she should focus on being 100 percent 
O’Brien 
continued from page 16 
ready to play, and she really came up big. 
Saint Mary’s will look to carry the confidence of the first round lead into today’s compe­tition. but they must shoot well again if it wants to avoid a sec­ond round similar to its last tournament. At the George Fox Invitational in Arizona, the Belles’ entered round two with a six-shot lead that quickly dis­appeared and landed them in second place. The competition in Georgetown isn’t easy either, as Texas-Tyler stands in second with 348 and Mary Hardin-Baylor in third with 351 amongst the nine-team field. 
With similar winds expected today, Boyce believes that her team has the composure to beat both the conditions and take out her frustration in the next three years.” 
Given Megan’s description of her sister’s skills, the Irish will benefit greatly from her return in the fall. 
“Lauren is more skilled, she has good stick skills and she’s very creative with them,” Megan said. “She has the abil­ity to break down defenses and is more strategic in that way than I am.” 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
the competition. 
“Hopefully we learned some­thing from our last tourna­ment,” she said. “Everybody will have to focus. We expect to face the same difficult weather, but we’ll just have to take everything one shot at a time.” 
Saint Mary’s second round will tee off tomorrow at 8 a.m. in Georgetown. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
Elizabeth 
continued from page 16 
she’d be there in a second to help me.” 
Though Katherine is available to provide sup­port for Elizabeth, the Mequon, Wis., natives also know when the time comes 
to keep their relationship distant. 
“I’d like to think I set a good exam ­ple for her and helped her, but I really think it’s her own college expe­rience as well and not just follow ­ing in my footsteps, ” Kath erine said. “So I’ve 
tried to let her do her thing [and] find her way.” 
Being sisters can 
own own 
also 
make things difficult on the team, but Elizabeth and Kath erine try not to 
said. “She doesn’t like it when I treat her different than any other senior.” 
Like most athletic sib ­lings, a “friendly” rivalry in athletics emerged while growing up. But through the competitiveness, they became closer. 
“We fought every day. We still do,” Katherine said. “We’re incredibly competi­tive in everything we do, which makes being on a team and being on campus together very interesting. “But we ’re also each other’s biggest fans, so I know that no matter how much we want to kill each other after a practice, we can go back to being best friends immediately.” 
This tenacity was also 
displayed 
“I’d like to think I set a good example for her and helped her, but I really think it’s her own college experience as well and not just following in my foot­steps” 
Katherine Linnemanstons 
senior rower 
on the rugby pitch when competi ng for national power Divine Savior Holy Angels High School. 
“We’ve always been too far apart [in age] to be exactly side­by-side com­pared, but my [rugby] coach kept saying to me, ‘Elizabeth, are you going 
to be as good as Katherine?’ And that was my goal by my junior year 
— to be better than my sis­ter. And although we played different positions, 
our coach always said 
make that “We’re incredibly com-that I gave much of an my sister a
petetive in everything
issue. great run for 
we do, which makes
“ W h e n her money.” we’re on the being on a team and While team, it ’s a being on campus 
Kath erine ‘teammate -participates 
together very interest-
teammate ’ primarily in thing more ing.” top varsity than ‘sister­
races, sister’,” 
Elizabeth is 
Katherine Linnemanstons 
Eli zabeth hoping to 
senior rower 
overtake her 
older rival, and sooner rather than later. 
“My goal, which will probably never be fulfilled within this year, is to beat my sister,” Elizabeth said. “But it’s fun because I’ve set that and my parents see that and they love that [goal].” 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 5, 2011 
McGraw 
continued from page 16 
Adams scored 16 points and grabbed six rebounds in 32 energetic minutes for the Aggies in the win over Stanford. 
“[Playing Texas A&M] is something I haven’t actually spent a lot of time thinking about, and when I was watch­ing them through the tourna­ment, I thought, ‘Boy, they’d be a really tough team to play,’” McGraw said. 
While Notre Dame will partic­ipate in its second champi­onship game in program histo­ry, Texas A&M has never reached the title game before. quickly emerged as one of the 
“It feels great,” junior guard nation’s most talented players. Sydney She scored 28 Carter said. points on 10-of-14 “I’m just shooting to knock 
ready to play again. We’re going  “Every team in America wants to be where we  off Connecticut, who lost Sunday for only the sec- 
to the final game, and we just have to  are right now and we’re going to take advantage of that.”  ond time in 115 games. “[Diggins] played like [an All- 
p  u  s  h  A m  e r  i  c a n  ]  
through and do it again.” The story  Natalie Achonwa Freshman forward  tonight,” McGraw said after her point guard’s per- 
of the semi­ formance to defeat  
final match  the Huskies. “She  
for the Irish  did it all. She ran  

was the play of sophomore the team. She scored. She made point guard and emotional good passes, good decisions.” leader Skylar Diggins, who has Ten years ago, the Irish defeated Connecticut in the national semifinals, also in upset fashion. Led by Notre Dame Ring of Honor inductee Ruth Riley, the squad defeated Purdue two nights after beating the Huskies to earn the pro­gram’s first national champi­onship. 

“Every team in America wants to be where we are right now and we’re going to take advan­tage of that,” freshman forward Natalie Achonwa said. 
The Irish and Aggies will bat­tle tonight at 8:30 p.m. at Conseco Fieldhouse in Indianapolis for the national title. 
Contact Andrew Owens aowens2@nd.edu 
Success 
continued from page 16 
complete dismantling of Providence College in a three -game series, with two of the victories lasting just five innings and a shutout in Sunday’s game. Sunday also marked Irish coach Deanna Gumpf ’s 400th career victory, an achievement that only increases her significant lead as the most winning coach in program history. 
Sunday’s shutout effort was a joint effort by fresh­man Laura Winter and sen­ior Jody Valdiva. 
Winter in particular played a key role in Notre Dame’s recent string of vic­tories, which began last Thursday when she struck out a career-high 12 bat­ters against Purdue. 
“The pitching staff has really stepped up [its] game,” Winter said. “We come out every day and make sure that we walk away feeling like we had a productive workout. Even though pitching has helped us win the recent ball games, our bats have begun to produce the hits we need to keep [us] in the games.” 
Leading Notre Dame ’s offensive charge was Big East Player of the Week and senior captain Heather Johnson, who went 12-for­17 with three doubles, three homers, 14 RBIs and 24 total bases in the week’s five games. In the process, the senior slugger set a new career record with five RBIs in the opening game against Providence and the new Notre Dame all-time RBI record with 176. 
With every element of the game starting to click for the Irish, the departure from Melissa Cook Stadium should not be a problem, Winter said. 
“Even though home games are great, it is nice to go out and beat a team on unfamiliar turf,” Winter said. “We have been work­ing hard to keep the inten­sity strong and are excited to dominate with our impenetrable defense and relentless bats.” 
Although Wisconsin (17­13, 1-3 Big Ten) is coming off a big win over Michigan State, the Irish have a week’s worth of achieve­ments behind them and will look to use that suc­cess to propel them for ­
ward.  
Notre Dame will take  on  
t h e  B a d g e r s  t o d a y  i n  
Madison, Wis., at 5 p.m.  

Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 


Tuesday, April 5, 2011 The Observer u TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Tuesday, April 5, 2011 page 16 
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Title time? 
Notre Dame to face Texas A&M in national title game in Indianapolis 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame can put the finishing touches on one of the most remark­able seasons in NCAA tournament history when it faces Texas A&M tonight in the championship game. 
Both teams are coming off back-to­back victories over No. 1 seeds after pulling off upsets in the national semifinals Sunday. Notre Dame (31-7) earned a 72-63 win over two-time defending champion Connecticut, while Texas A&M (32-5) ousted Stanford in a 63-62 thriller. 

“In some ways we’re mirror images of each other because we’ve got great guard play and pretty good defense,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “And they’ve got an outstanding player in [senior forward] Danielle Adams.” SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 
Sophomore guard Skylar Diggins drives through defenders in a 72-63 win over see MCGRAW/page 14 Connecticut Sunday. Diggins had a career-high 28 points in the victory. 

WOMEN’S ROWING 

Sisters guide each other on and off the water 
Such is the case for fresh-a built-in role model right Elizabeth to make the most
By SAM GANS 

man Elizabeth there,” Elizabeth said. “I’ve of academic and other
Sports Writer 

Linnemanstons, who joined always kind of looked up to opportunities. 
her sister, senior Katherine her, and seeing her be such “It was great to have 
Making the jump from Linnemanstons, for the a good rower — it’s a great someone here to make the high school competition to Irish this season. The per-motivation for me.” adjustment so much easi-Notre Dame athletics can sonal relationship has Katherine provides her er,” Elizabeth said. “If I had be strenuous for many helped form a connection younger sister guidance not a problem or if I was strug­freshmen, regardless of the on the water, more so than only when competing on the gling in a class, I’d just call sport. But having a sibling the typical relationship lakes, but also in her cam-my sister and she ’d be already on the Irish team between an upperclassman pus life. Having a sibling there in a second to help can make that transition and a freshman. nearby the first few months easier. “It’s fantastic because it’s on campus allowed see ELIZABETH/page 13 
SMC GOLF 
Belles take lead after first round 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Despite nearly unplayable condi­tions, No. 12 Saint Mary’s grabbed a three-shot lead in the opening round of the Southwestern University Invitational in Georgetown, Texas, to come out of day one in first place. 
In their weekend practice round, the Belles were greeted by a very open course at Teravista Golf Club. The weather was fair, and low scores seemed ready for the taking. But when the Belles took to the tee Monday morning, they were met by 30 mph winds, with gusts blowing up near 50 mph. According to senior captain Mary Kate Boyce, the wind was almost indescribable. 
“There were pretty rough condi­tions out there today,” Boyce said. “The winds were blowing up in the 30s and 40s, and unless you saw us playing in it you couldn’t really under­stand how windy it was.” 
With the extreme winds, scores bal­looned as well. After shooting a stellar 302 as a team in the first round of their last tournament, the Belles score rose to 345 Monday. However, it was still strong enough to earn Saint Mary’s a first place standing. 
The Belles had several strong per­formances Monday, earning their lead by finding ways to go low despite the conditions. Freshman Doyle O’Brien was the star of the day with her single round score of 82. O’Brien played her best golf after the turn — her back nine score of 39 was the best of the day. 
“[O’Brien] definitely stepped up for us,” Boyce said. “The wind affected every shot out there, but she was 
see O’BRIEN/page 13 
SOFTBALL 
Irish prepared to battle Badgers 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
With a coach that just cap­tured her 400th victory, a captain that was named Big East Player of the Week after smashing Notre Dame ’s career RBI record, a pitching staff that is finally hitting its stride and five wins in their first six home games, the Irish are coming off a suc­cessful week. With that momentum, Notre Dame (21­7, 3-0 Big East) will head to Madison, Wis., to take on the Badgers. 
“We head up to Wisconsin to hopefully get another win,” junior outfielder Alexa Maldonado said. “We just want to take momentum from this weekend and roll into our next games. If we do that, we should beat them. We need to stay consistent as a team, and the wins will keep coming.” 
The weekend consisted of a 
see SUCCESS/page 14 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Sullivan sisters don’t let a rivalry take over 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
As the only coach in the Irish program’s 15-year Division I history, Tracy Coyne prides herself on recruiting talented athletes from across the country to come to Notre Dame. If talent happens to run in the family, Coyne’s job becomes much easier. 
When freshman attack Lauren Sullivan decided to join forces with her older sis­ter, junior midfielder Megan Sullivan, she became part of the ninth set of sisters to play for the Irish. 
Although siblings often want to escape the shadow of an older brother or sister, an issue that Megan said arose during her sister’s recruiting process, the two Sullivans’ separate positions prevented any sort of malicious sibling rivalry. 
“That was an issue in the beginning,” Megan said of her younger sister Lauren’s desire to make a name for herself. “I think it would be a bigger deal if we both played offense or both played defense. We each have a specific set of skills.” 
Those specific skills have their respective places on the field for the Irish. Megan said she relies on her quickness in the midfield to help start the Notre Dame attack, her sis­ter’s area of expertise. 
“I rely a lot on my speed,” Megan said. “I’m pretty fast through the midfield, where I’m looking to create turnovers and get us going offensively.” 
The junior’s speed resulted in her introduction to the starting lineup last year, starting all 18 games and fin­ishing with 16 goals, sixth-best on the team. She has 
see SULLIVAN/page 13 




