the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


ND continues work in Haiti one year after quake 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
Associate News Editor 
One year after a 7.0 magni­tude earthquake shook Haiti, the Notre Dame Haiti Program remains present in the country through relief efforts and public health programs, Sarah Craig, the program manager, said. 
“We were in Haiti before, during and after the earth­quake,” Craig said. “We saw a need to step aside from our public health program to address the efforts for relief after the earthquake.” 
The Notre Dame Haiti Program, led by Fr. Tom Streit, fights infectious diseases throughout the country. The program specifically targets lymphatic filariasis, also known as elephantiasis. 
After the earthquake struck Haiti on Jan. 12, 2010, the Haiti Program turned its attention to the emergency. 
Streit and other volunteers provided medical support for victims of the earthquake’s destruction. 
Craig said over 100 of 500 volunteers were Notre Dame alumni from the medical pro­fession. These volunteers saw over 30,000 patients, per­formed 700 surgeries and delivered 250 babies during the six months following the earth­quake, she said. 
The volunteers faced basic challenges such as the lack of shelter, transportation, water and food. Medical supplies and support were also scarce, Craig said. 
“We also are addressing some of the needs for rebuilding, specifically in Léogâne where we are headquartered,” Craig said. “Our building there is our home base and where we con­centrate most of our efforts.” 
According to the program’s summer 2010 newsletter, the earthquake did not alter the program’s mission. 
“In truth, The Notre Dame Haiti Program’s mission in Haiti has never changed. For 17 
see HAITI/page 4 


Above: A person dressed in a Notre Dame Haiti program t-shirt looks at a group of tents set up as temporary housing in Haiti after the January 2010 earthquake. The Notre Dame Haiti Program dedicated itself to relief efforts in its aftermath. 
Right: A building in Léogáne stands amongst rubble and damage from the 7.0 magnitude earthquake. The Haiti Program is involved in rebuilding efforts. 




Marching band wins prestigious award 
major of the Marching Band, said. “It puts us in a category of marching bands that have been recognized as outstanding groups that have really contributed to American culture, like [the University of] Michigan [and] Michigan State.” 
College band directors across the country submit nominations for the Trophy, Dye said. These nominations usually come from directors who have received the award in the past. 
Each nominated band submits an unedited video sample, usually of a single show, to a screening committee that reviews the videos and selects finalists. Finalists must then submit more video footage, and a selection commit-
see BAND/page 5 

OIT works on CIF system after Dec. crash 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
The University’s Course Instructor Feedback (CIF) system experienced problems at the end of last semester, resulting in the entire student body receiving their grades at the earliest time, Erin Hoffmann Harding, associ­ate vice president for Strategic Planning, said. 

“For a period of about three hours on the last night of the CIF window for most undergraduate courses, the OIT server support­ing the CIF system experienced a slow down in performance,” Hoffmann Harding said. “The system never crashed, almost 1,000 surveys were successfully submitted during this time and no information was lost.” 
Some students who tried to access the system could not com­plete their CIFs, she said. Beginning during the 2009 fall semester, completing CIFs allowed students to view their semester grades seven days early. 
“The system slow down pre­vented some students from suc­cessfully submitting their CIFs,” she said. “Unfortunately, it was not possible to reopen the survey system prior to the beginning of final exams. It was also not feasi­ble to identify which students had been affected by the slowed performance.” 

see CIF/page 5 



By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
The Sousa Foundation announced on Dec. 17 that the Notre Dame Marching Band received the 2011 Sudler Trophy. 
The Sudler Trophy is awarded every two years, and a marching band can only receive it once. The same company that manu­factures the Heisman Trophy also manufactures the Sudler Trophy, Kenneth Dye, director of Notre Dame Bands, said. 
This prestigious award recog­nizes a contribution to the field of bands over a long period of time and is the only award given to college marching bands. 
“This is a huge honor for our band,” Glynnis Garry, drum 


Coughlin assumes new role 

By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Brian Coughlin, former assis­tant vice president for student activities, assumed the position of associate vice presi­dent for stu­dent devel­opment on Jan. 1. 
The pro­motion is part of a reorganiza­tion of the University’s Division of Student Affairs. Coughlin, a 1995 Notre Dame graduate, has been a senior staff member in the division since 2007. 
Coughlin said he most looks forward to working with differ­ent students and staff in his new role at the University. 
“The thing that excites me most as I take on this new opportunity is the chance to assist and walk with students who may be in the most need of 

see COUGHLIN/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER ROTC holds award ceremony page 3  2011 movies spread page 10  Men’s basketball wrap page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Thursday, January 20, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR  OAL FOR 2011?

THE OBSERVER 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Laura McCrystal Eric Prister Alicia Smith Andrew Owens Melissa Flanagan Cory Bernard 
Graphics Scene 
Sofia Iturbe Alex Kilpatrick 
Photo Viewpoint 
Tom La Ren Brauweiler 
OFFBEAT 
Mass. police chief: Man tried to sell me fake gold 
RANDOLPH — Police say a Boston man picked the wrong mark when he tried to sell him fake gold jewel­ry at a grocery store. 
The man approached William Pace on Sunday and offered to sell him a bracelet and chain marked as 14 karat gold for $100. Two problems — Pace is the police chief in Randolph, Mass., and he owns a jewelry store. 
Pace, who was out of uniform, tells The Patriot Ledger he could tell the gold was fake by its look and feel. 
The suspect, identified by police as Johnnie Butts, will be issued a summons 

Tori Creighton  Tyler Moorehead  Amanda Bruening  Kaitlyn Strand  Sean Hannon  Tommy Reagan  
freshm an  sophom ore  sophom ore  senior  sophom ore  senior  
Pasquerilla W est  D illon  W elsh Fam ily  offcam pus  Siegfried  offcam pus  
“To go to bed  “W ellI’m  still  “To run the  “To geta ring  .  “G eta tan.”  “K ick Lord  
earlier and get  learning the  H oly H alf!”  Im ean job by  Zed’s butt.”  
m ore sleep”  alphabet.”  spring”  




Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 


DAN JACOBS/The Observer A giant snowman sculpture complete with a coal mouth and a carrot nose sits outside Riley Hall Wednesday afternoon. South Quad and the rest of campus remains covered in snow. 
to appear in court on a charge of attempt to com­mit larceny by false pre­tense. 
Police are trying to determine if Butts sold any fake jewelry to others before approaching Pace. 
Boston lacrosse team sorry for racy halftime show 
BOSTON — Boston’s pro­fessional indoor lacrosse team is apologizing for a racy halftime show featur­ing scantily-dressed women giving lap dances to the team’s mascot. 
An online video shows dancers taking turns gyrating in front of and on the seated mascot, Scorch, while an announcer bel­lows, “What do you think?” 
Boston Blazer’s general manager Doug Reffue says the team was “extremely disappointed” with parts of the halftime show Saturday at the TD Garden. On Monday, Reffue said it was part of a halftime promotion that “wasn’t executed accord­ing to how it was spelled out to us.” 
Reffue said the dancers were not members of the Blazers’ dance team, but fans who volunteered for the halftime promotion. He declined to discuss addi­tional details, but said it won’t happen again. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
The lecture “Benefit Corporations — A New Kind of Corporation for a New Economy” will be given today at 12:30 p.m. in Room 1140 of the Law School. The elcture will describe how a new corpo­rate form is providing the legal infrastructure for a more sus­tainable and inclusive economy. 
There will be a Mass cele­brated for the Feast of Blessed Basil Moreau, C.S.C. today at 
5:15 p.m. The mass, celebrat­ing the feast day of the Congregation’s founder, will be held in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Join celebrant and provincial superior of the Indiana Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Rev. David Tyson, C.S.C., in liturgy. 
Taste of the States: Southern Style will take place in the LaFortune Ballroom today at 10 p.m. It is a free food give­away extravaganza featuring foods such as gumbo, southern fried chicken, macaroni and cheese, BBQ pulled pork and key lime pie. 
Jay Cohen Gilbert will give the first lecture in the Ten Years Hence Lecture Series tomorrow at 10:40 a.m. Cohen is co-founder of B Lab, a non­profit organization dedicated to using the power of business to solve social and environmental problems. It will take place in Jordan Auditorium. 
Rolfs Aquatic Center will host a Dive-In Movie tomorrow at 10 p.m. The featured movie is The Goonies and students can watch from inside or along­side the pool. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 








CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 
23 20 1019 2122
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

6 6 814 1520 
Thursday, January 20, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




ROTC recognizes new student leaders 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s Army Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) held a Change of Responsibility Ceremony Wednesday to pass leadership of its battalion to new cadets. 
Senior student leadership of the Army, Navy and Air Force ROTC branches changes at the beginning of each semester. The Navy and Air Force branches also held similar ceremonies this week. 
“Being able to contribute in a very high degree and having the capacity to have a substantial influence and leave a mark … on the program was great,” Cadet Lt. Colin Raymond, last semes­ter’s Cadet Battalion Commander, said. 
Although rewarding, Raymond said his former job was quite challenging. 
“It was a ton of work, and I am excited to play a more supporting role this semester,” Raymond said. 

Cadet Lt. Kyle Hanratty, last semester’s Cadet Operations Officer, said he sees the transition as a “shift of responsibilities” for the senior leaders instead of a relinquishing of duties. He is now a platoon leader. 
“[As platoon leader] I will be able to focus more on the individ­ual soldiers and developing them versus the big picture I had last semester of the whole battalion,” Hanratty said. 
Raymond, Hanratty and last semester’s Cadet Major Louisa White handled most of the event planning and training for the other cadets, which exposed them to the challenges of peer leadership. 
“You can’t use the force of this imaginary rank to get someone to do something when they’re your friend and they’ve done the same thing as you this entire time,” White said. “You really don’t have a show of force other than who you are.” 
Raymond said he had encoun­tered the same difficulties and tried to include his peers as much as he could. 
“I wanted to respect my friends as competent leaders themselves so giving them opportunities as well was important,” he said. 
At Wednesday’s ceremony, each of last semester’s leaders symbolically passed the flag of each unit to the battalion com­mander, who then gave it to the incoming leader. According to Cadet Lt. Neal Dillon, coordinator of the event, this exchange repre­sents the trust between members of the battalion. 
Raymond said he trusts the new Cadet Battalion Commander, Cadet Lt. Geralyn Janke to lead this semester, and she is pre­pared to take on this role. 


“Colin is good at everything ... he did a great job last semester,” she said. “It will definitely be tough to fill his shoes, but I’m ready.” 
Hanratty is succeeded by Alex Barbuto as Cadet Battalion Commander and White is suc­ceeded by Graham Hoar as Cadet Major. 

Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
SMC earns community engagement classification 
By BRIDGET MEADE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s is one of 114 institutions that earned recog­nition from the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching in 2010. 
The Carnegie Foundation announced this month that Saint Mary’s was selected for its 2010 Community Engagement Classification. This year, 305 institutions applied for the classification. 
Carrie Call, director of the Office of Civic and Social Engagement at Saint Mary’s, said the recognition is a testa­ment to Saint Mary’s increased engagement in the local com­munity within the past five years. 
“The fact that we got the designation means that even though we are a small cam­pus, we are very big when it comes to engagement,” she said. 
The Carnegie Foundation, a national resource for teaching and learning on all education levels, established the national classification system in 1970, according to its website. The Community Engagement Classification began in 2006. 
According to the foundation’s website, the application process includes providing examples of community engagement through mission, culture, leadership, resources and practices. 
Call said she learned about the program a few years ago and thought the campus showed a stronger likelihood to be selected in 2010. 
With over 80 percent of Saint Mary’s students participating in community service by the time they graduate, Call said the College is above the national average. 
“[The students’] engagement is across a wide variety of activities from tutoring to mentoring to visiting the elder­ly to working with the home­less,” she said. 
Members of Saint Mary’s administration completed the application, which consisted of about 40 pages on the College’s activity in the com­munity, such as volunteer work, internships, publication and research of faculty and new program development. 
The application process offered the school an opportu­nity to reflect on its communi­ty awareness and relation­ships, Call said. 
“It’s also a great thing for our admissions information,” Call said. “Students can know in advance that this will be a place where they can be engaged in service.” 
Although the administration has not looked into the details of reapplying for the 2015 classification, Call said the school is interested in the idea. 
“In the meantime,” Call said, “we plan continue to foster the connection between campus and the larger community.” 
Contact Bridget Meade at bmeade01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 20, 2011 
These groups used the crisis in Haiti to highlight the need for 

Haiti 
continued from page 1 
years, the program has aided and fought for Haiti by researching elimination meth­ods for lymphatic filariasis (LF) and neglected tropical diseases (NTD),” the newsletter stated, “But since the beginning, the overarching goal has been improving the lives of the peo­ple of Haiti, and in that respect, the last six months have been no different.” 
Following the earthquake, a cholera outbreak disrupted the program’s work with lymphatic filariasis and other diseases. 
“Almost worse than the earthquake was the cholera outbreak in the fall,” Craig said. 
The Haiti Program will resume its disease elimination programs beginning Monday. 
As the program turns back to treat disease elimination, rebuilding was still an agenda for Notre Dame volunteers. 
“Disease elimination is our forte and what we are in Haiti to do,” Craig said. “But we still will work on rebuilding because we are morally and ethically responsible to do so.” 
The Haiti Program headquar­ters in Léogâne and the pro­gram’s three other facilities in the country remained standing in the middle of rubble after the earthquake. The buildings were among the few with run­ning water and electricity. 
Student groups such as ND Fighting NTDs and the Haiti Working Group were also among the organizations that reached out to victims in Haiti. 
public health initiatives. 
ND Fighting NTDs president Emily Conron said she hopes the club will send students to Haiti someday to witness its public health initiatives first­hand. 
“We use Haiti as an example of how focusing on neglected tropical diseases can help the community,” Conron said. “By focusing on public health the economic and social and even emotional repercussions [of 
these  initiatives  are]  very  
clear.”  
The  Haiti  Program  is  an  

example of how public health programs can encourage hope for a better future, Conron said. 
In a summer 2010 thank-you letter to all Haiti Program vol­unteers, Streit explained the involvement of the Notre Dame community in Haiti. 
“A network of ND-connected health professionals is continu­ing to save lives,” the letter stated. “ND engineers have already helped determine the viability of important structural assets in several communities, while ND architects are part of a massive 11 school building project in Léogâne. Many alum­ni are working in response teams addressing nutrition, relief logistics and development planning. 
“Haiti requires the kind of support that is both immediate and enduring as well as a pro­found commitment to the idea that if we are part of the Body of Christ together, we are all at this moment Haitians.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 



Thursday, January 20, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
CIF 
continued from page 1 
Administrators decided to modify the grade holding policy for the fall semester only, Hoffmann Harding said. OIT is investigating the system prob­lems, and the early grade incen­tive will exist again in the spring. 
Hoffmann Harding said the CIF system is still in develop­ment, and the next priority is to solve the performance speed. 
“The system will also soon have the ability to provide more customized information to stu­dents in e-mails about which CIFs they still need to complete and when their individual survey windows close,” she said. “We welcome suggestions about other enhancements that would improve students’ ability to offer feedback to their professors.” 
The response rate was 78 per­cent for all of the fall 2010 


Coughlin 
continued from page 1 
assistance, an entirely different group than I worked with pre­viously,” Coughlin said. “I am also looking forward to the opportunity to being a part of the senior team that will work with [Vice President for Student Affairs] Fr. Tom Doyle to bring alive his vision for student life at Notre Dame in the years ahead.” 
After graduating from Notre Dame in 1995, Coughlin worked at Bethany College and Boston College. But he said, “there is no place else like Notre Dame.” 
“The talent and passion of the student body, the commitment of the faculty and staff and the foundational mission provided by the Congregation of Holy courses, she said. This rate was lower than fall 2009, but exceeded the response rate for fall 2008. 

Dennis Jacobs, vice president and associate provost, said feed­back from CIFs is integrated into the classroom through feedback given directly to departments and faculty. 
“Instructors are provided with a detailed summary report of the CIF data collected for every course section they teach,” Jacobs said. “For each CIF item, the instructor can see the distri­bution of student responses, a calculated mean score, and a comparison to the scores received by other faculty who teach similar courses at Notre Dame.” 
Professors also see the open-ended answers, but they cannot see student names, he said. This allows for anonymity. 
“Many faculty members reflect on thoughtful CIF feedback from their students as they consider 
Cross make this a place like no other,” Coughlin said. “It truly allows and encourages us to think of student life in a devel­opmental way.” 
While working as the assis­tant vice president for student activities, Coughlin oversaw the renovation of LaFortune Student Center and Legends of Notre Dame. But he said watch­ing students take on more lead­ership positions was the most valuable aspect of his job. 
“One thing that really stood out for me from my time work­ing exclusively with student activities was the shift in philos­ophy from staff-run program­ming to student-run, staff sup­ported programming,” Coughlin said. “We were able to see a significant increase in student leadership opportunities and the quality of programs pro­duced on campus.” 
While Coughlin said he is ways to improve their teaching in future semesters,” he said. 
Past improvements to CIFs have provided more incentive for students to complete them, Jacobs said. 
“Five of the questions appear­ing on the CIF were written together by students and faculty with the purpose of pro­viding more information at the time of course selection,” he said. “The results to these five items are displayed within Class Search on the Registrar’s web­site.” 
Only students who have com­pleted their CIFs the previous semester can view these results, Jacobs said. 
“This enhancement to Class Search along with gaining earli­er access to grades provide two valuable incentives for students to complete all their CIFs,” he said. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
excited to fill his new position, he is aware of the challenges he faces. He said the adminis­trative tasks may take some time to figure out, but he is pos­itive about continuing the core mission of working with stu­dents while they grow and develop. 
Coughlin believes that all of his previous experiences at Notre Dame will help con­tribute to his new position. 
“It is my hope that every experience I have had along my Notre Dame journey will all provide me valuable insight and preparation as I undertake this new endeavor,” Coughlin said. “No place is like Notre Dame and I have had the fortu­nate opportunity to see this place from so many different angles.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


Band 
continued from page 1 
tee chooses the recipient of the Trophy. 
The last band to receive the Trophy was Western Carolina University in North Carolina, Dye said. 
Notre Dame learned of its status as a finalist for the award in early November. 
The Trophy will be presented to the University at the Oct. 8 foot­ball game against the Air Force Falcons. It will remain at Notre Dame for two years after its pres­entation in October. 
“[The Trophy] is 22 and a half inches tall, which is the same length as a standard marching step, and it has a bronze drum major over a big stadium and a marble base,” Dye said. 
Although Notre Dame will only have the Sudler Trophy for two years, the Marching Band is allowed to order a replica to keep on campus permanently. Additionally, each member of the Band will receive a pin to wear on his or her uniform for the next two years in recognition of win­ning the Trophy. 
“We’ve worked really hard to be innovative, to do new things, but we have a long history of service to the University that includes playing for all the troops that have left campus since the Civil War,” Dye said. “Being 165 years old and the oldest college marching band, that probably was a big dif­ference [in the selection process for the recipient of the Trophy].” 
Garry said student band mem­bers were very excited and proud to receive the award. 
“What’s special about The Band of the Fighting Irish is that with our without any awards or recog­nition we all take immense pride in what we do,” Carolyn Weinschenk, a freshman piccolo player, said. “The Sudler Trophy is a well-deserved testament to the dedication and hard work of the directors and student leaders of the Band that make it all possi­ble.” 
Bobby Reichle, a sophomore trombone player, said the award is a sign of band members’ hard work. 
“Hopefully this inspires the band to continue to improve, especially since our football team has been making such impressive progress,” he said. 
Garry said many band mem­bers did not know the band was in the running for the Sudler Trophy. 
“It was a secret that we had made it to the finals, and this was really quite a surprise to the Band,” Garry said. 
The band is constantly improv­ing and has been moving in a pos­itive direction since Dye became the director, Garry said. 
“With huge events like the Alumni Band Reunion and the New York trip, the Band has become very goal-oriented,” Garry said. 
Dye said his main goal for the marching band is “to constantly come up with new things while maintaining the tradition of the band’s history. 
“[Marching bands] really do contribute to American lifestyle and culture, and I think our band certainly does that,” Garry said. “It contributes to the lifestyles of students and alumni, but I think it [also] does so nationally, and this award recognizes that. It’s really cool that you can only win this once. To be a part of that group of bands that has won this is quite an accomplishment.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 


STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
Group discusses finances, Heritage Week 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) convened for its first meeting of the semester Wednesday, review­ing finance policies and docu­ments and discussing Heritage Week events. 
Treasurer Meg Griffin gave a report of SGA’ s monetary alloca­tions that cover club expenses that fund campus wide events or are travel related. During her report, Griffin said SGA has granted a total of 19 allocations as of the end of the fall semester, 11 of which were campus-program­ming sponsorships and eight of which were travel grants. 
As determined by SGA, campus programming refers to an event or activity that is open to the entire campus and has a potential to require more funding than reg­ular club events. Travel grants are given to clubs to travel represent­ing their Saint Mary’s College club or organization as a group or team. 
“Last semester there was $68,240 designated for SGA spon­sorships,” Griffin said. “Last semester $23,889 was spent, so there is still quite a bit available for this semester.” 
Along the lines of finances, Griffin gave a brief refresher sem­inar on finance policies and docu­ments including the different financial responsibilities of the Office of Student Involvement and those of SGA. 
SGA is able to help clubs and organizations with the sponsor­ship process, the uses of funds from a sponsorship, club storage, cash boxes, meeting space in the SGA office and craft supplies. 
Griffin also noted issues that had arisen with paperwork in the past to request for SGA funding, specifically the critical information that is frequently left blank on the forms — documentation of all costs and the itinerary for travel grants. 
“All of the forms are available for downloading on the SGA web­site,” Griffin said. 
In addition to finances, SGA members discussed Heritage Week events that start this coming Sunday with Mass in both LeMans and Regina at the usual designat­ed times, both followed by a small reception. Heritage Week is an annual celebration of Saint Mary’s traditions. 
Chief of Staff Kelly Zenere out­lined the week’s events and urged SGA members to sign up to work at the various events. 
“Heritage Week is the biggest SGA event of the year,” Zenere said. 
Zenere placed special emphasis on the s’mores and Meet and Greet with the Sisters of the Holy Cross at the convent, taking place on Friday. 
“The nuns are all very excited,” she said. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloney@nd.edu 

page 6 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 20, 2011 Thursday, January 20, 2011 The Observer  INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Housevotestorepeal healthcaremeasure 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Swiftly hon­oring a campaign pledge, newly empowered Republicans pushed legislation to repeal the nation’s year-old health care overhaul through the House Wednesday night, brushing aside implacable opposition in the Senate and a veto threat from President Barack Obama. 
The 245-189 vote was largely along party lines, and cleared the way for the second phase of the “repeal and replace” prom­ise that victorious Republicans made to the voters last fall. GOP officials said that in the coming months, congressional commit­tees will propose changes to the existing legislation, calling for elimination of a requirement for individuals to purchase cover­age, for example, and recom­mending curbs on medical mal­practice lawsuits. 
Republicans also intend to try to reverse many of the changes Democrats made to Medicare Advantage, the private alterna­tive to the traditional govern­ment-run health care program for seniors. 
Like the repeal bill itself, these other measures will require Senate approval and a presiden­tial signature to take effect, and the prospect is for months of maneuvering on the issue. 
Debate across two days lead­ing to the vote was markedly restrained, as lawmakers in both political parties observed self-imposed vows of civility in the wake of the shooting ram­page in Arizona that left six dead and Rep. Gabrielle Giffords wounded. 
But there was no mistaking the significance many first-term Republican lawmakers attached to a day they had long waited for, finally getting a chance to speak and then vote on the House floor against a law they had campaigned for months to repeal. 
Rep. Jeff Duncan, R-S.C. said the legislation produced by Obama and congressional Democrats was a “job-killing, socialistic” approach to health care. Rep. Frank Guinta of New Hampshire, who defeated a Democratic incumbent last fall, said it was misguided, needing repeal. 
“The American people have soundly, soundly rejected the Democrats’ government takeover of health care,” said Rep. Sandy Adams of Florida. 
Rep. Steve Southerland, also of Florida, said the law imposes a crushing tax burden on busi­nesses, and he predicted “1.6 million jobs will be lost by 2014 due to this mandate” to require many businesses to provide cov­erage for employees. 
Both Floridians won their seats by turning out Democratic incumbents. 
“This is not symbolic. This is why we were sent here,” added Rep. Michelle Bachman, of Minnesota, a third-term conser­vative with strong support among tea party activists. 
On the short end of the vote, Democrats challenged Republican claims and high­lighted politically popular ele­ments of the bill that would be wiped out if repeal took effect. 
Rep. Jim Moran, D-Va., accused some Republicans of “the height of hypocrisy” by vot­ing to repeal a vast expansion of health care at the same time they had signed up for coverage for their families through a gov­ernment-organized program available to lawmakers. 
Rep. Frank Pallone, D-N.J., said that despite claims of employment loss, the economy had added jobs in each of the past 10 months. 
In one of the most animated speeches of two days of debate, Rep. George Miller, D-Calif., said repeal would return power to insurance companies. “Has any­body, any family in America, any single mother, any spouse, any child, any grandparent met a more bureaucratic system than the American health insurance system? There is no more bureaucratic system.” 
Three Democrats voted with Republicans on the repeal meas­ure: Dan Boren of Oklahoma, Mike McIntyre of North Carolina and Mike Ross of Arkansas. 
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid has said the legislation will not see the light of day there, but the GOP leader, Sen. Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said bluntly, “I assure you we will” have a vote on it. 
The law faces another chal­lenge, well beyond the reach of Obama’s veto pen. More than half the states have filed suits against it, and while some judges have upheld the legisla­tion, one recently ruled it was unconstitutional to require indi­viduals to purchase insurance. The Supreme Court is widely expected to have the final word. 
The Obama administration has made a major effort in recent days to emphasize parts of the bill that have met with public approval, including one that permits children to age 26 to remain on their parents’ poli­cies if they do not have on-the­job coverage of their own. Democrats also argue that repeal would short-circuit other changes yet to take effect, including a ban on the insur­ance industry’s practice of deny­ing coverage or charging sharply higher premiums on the basis of a pre-existing medical condition. 
Republicans intend to address the same issues with legislation they say they will bring to the House floor in the coming months, according to officials who have been involved in dis­cussions on the issue, but no details were immediately avail­able. 
VATICAN CITY 

Vatican:lettertoBishopsmisinterpreted 
Associated Press 

VATICAN CITY — In a new round of damage control, the Vatican insisted Wednesday that a 1997 letter warning Irish bish­ops against reporting priests sus­pected of sex abuse to police had been “deeply misunderstood.” 
The Associated Press on Tuesday reported the contents of the letter, in which the Vatican’s top diplomat in Ireland told bish­ops that their policy of mandato­ry reporting such cases to police “gives rise to serious reservations of both a moral and canonical nature.” 
The newly revealed letter, obtained originally by Irish broadcaster RTE from an Irish bishop, has undermined persist­ent Vatican claims, particularly when seeking to defend itself in 
U.S. lawsuits, that Rome never told bishops not to cooperate with police. 
An Irish government-ordered investigation into decades of abuse cover-ups in the Dublin Archdiocese concluded that Irish bishops understood the letter to mean they shouldn’t report sus­pected crimes. 
And victims groups say it’s a “smoking gun” that shows that the church enforced a worldwide culture of concealing crimes by pedophile priests of which Rome bears ultimate — and legal — responsibility. 
“The letter confirms that the cover-up goes as far as the Vatican, that Vatican officials knew exactly what was going on, and that they proactively sought to deter Irish bishops from coop­erating with civil authorities in Ireland,” said Andrew Madden, a former Dublin altar boy who was raped repeatedly by a priest, Ivan Payne, in the 1980s. 
“This letter also documents how the church remained of the view that it is a law unto itself, how its rules and regulations regarding the handling of a crim­inal offense take precedence over civil society’s laws,” said Madden, who in 1995 became the first vic­tim in Ireland to go public with a lawsuit against the church. 
On Wednesday, the Vatican insisted the 1997 letter was only intended to emphasize that Irish bishops must follow church law meticulously. The Vatican spokesman, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, said the Holy See wanted to ensure that pedophile priests wouldn’t have any techni­cal grounds to escape church punishment on appeal. 
It by no means instructed bish­ops to disregard civil reporting requirements about abuse, added the Vatican’s U.S. lawyer, Jeffrey Lena, who said the letter had been “deeply misunder­stood” by the media. 
At the time, there were no such reporting requirements in Ireland. In fact, the Irish bishops were ahead of Irish lawmakers in pledging cooperation with law enforcement as dioceses were hit with the first lawsuits by victims of abusive priests. 
Yet as a result of the 1997 let­ter, most Irish dioceses never implemented the 1996 commit­ment to report all suspected abuse cases to police, according to the conclusions of the govern­ment-mandated investigation into the Dublin Archdiocese pub­lished in 2009. 
“This in fact never took place because of the response of Rome,” the commission said in its report, although it quoted Dublin Archdiocese officials as saying it was implemented there. 
That eight-year inquiry inter­viewed two senior Dublin Archdiocese canon lawyers involved in handling abuse com­plaints. They were quoted as say­ing the letter discouraged bish­ops from pursuing their 1996 ini­tiative for fear of being overruled by Rome, as had already hap­pened in one notorious case of a serial pedophile. 
UNITED KINGDOM 

New UK law protects royals 
Associated Press 

LONDON — What happens in the palace stays in the palace. 
A new British law that took effect Wednesday makes Queen Elizabeth II, Prince Charles and Prince William exempt from freedom of information laws, meaning many private details of their lives won’t be made public for decades. 
Justice Secretary Ken Clarke says the exemption will protect the monarch’s private conver­sations with politicians and officials — but information advocates say it will make it even harder to hold to account a royal family that costs tax­payers millions a year. 
For centuries, the workings of the British monarchy were shrouded in secrecy by a blend of law, convention, deference and media self-censorship. That media acquiescence is long gone, and under freedom of information laws that took effect in 2005, information about the royal family could be released if it was shown to be in the public interest. 
“It at least raised the possi­bility that information could be disclosed,” said Maurice Frankel of the Campaign for Freedom of Information. “What the changes do is remove the public interest test — exemp­tion becomes absolute.” 
Although the 84-year-old queen has no political power, she meets regularly with prime ministers and other senior politicians to talk about events of the day. Imagining such scenes has been grist for writ­ers of movies like “The Queen” 
— which shows Elizabeth meeting Tony Blair — and “The King’s Speech,” in which her father George VI consults 1930s Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin. 
Authors will have to continue to use their imagination thanks to the new legislation, which amends the Freedom of Information Act to exempt communications with the monarch, the heir to the throne and the second in line, or with others acting on their behalf 
In an irony noted by anti-monarchists, the change is buried within the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act, legislation the government says is aimed at “opening up public bodies to public scrutiny.” 
Clarke, the justice secretary, said the new rule was needed “to protect the long-standing conventions surrounding the monarchy and its records, for example the sovereign’s right and duty to counsel, encourage and warn her government, as well as the heir to the throne’s right to be instructed in the business of government in preparation for their future role as monarch.” 
The government argues the law enshrines the “well-estab­lished conventions of confiden­tiality” that protect the monarch’s political neutrality. 
But critics say Prince Charles, the 62-year-old heir to the throne, has cast neutrality aside by peppering ministers with letters on behalf of envi­ronmental issues and his pet projects. With the new law, they despair of getting their hands on evidence of his alleged meddling. 
“What he’s doing in some of these cases is obviously lobby­ing,” said Frankel. “That raises the question whether he should still enjoy the special protec­tion that the monarch and the heir to the throne traditionally get.” 
All freedom of information requests for details about Prince Charles’ correspon­dence have been rejected. But such requests have managed to extract some royal nuggets, including the queen’s 2004 request for money from a fund intended for low-income households to help pay palace heating bills. The request was turned down. 
Frankel said the effects of the change would likely be limited. The royal household is already defined as a family rather than a public body, and so is exempt from most requests. And the new rule shouldn’t let the gov­ernment keep factual informa­tion such as the size of royal budgets secret. 
Buckingham Palace publish­es annual accounts, which last year showed the total public cost of supporting the monar­chy to be 38.2 million pounds ($61 million), the equivalent of 62 pence ($1) per person. 
But Republic, a group that campaigns against the monar­chy, said the change will “make it almost impossible to hold the royal household to account for their actions and spending.” 
“The monarchy is a public institution, it is part of our political structure and it is funded entirely by public money,” said spokesman Graham Smith. “The public has a right to hold it to account and to know what it is doing.” 
Britain’s Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition gov­ernment insists its new legisla­tion makes government more open, expanding the number of bodies covered by freedom of information rules. 


The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, January 20, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

L.A. football 
Oh to be a kid again. Don’t you remem­ber going to (insert NFL stadium here) and soaking it all in? Hey Dad, let’s play catch before the game in the parking lot. Can I get a hot dog at halftime? These seats are awesome. Oh sorry, I was reminiscing there. And by remi­niscing, I mean fan­tasizing. 
While you smelled the sirloins cooking outside of the Linc, I asked mom if I could eat 


Andrew 
in front of the TV. She usually let me. Gastelum While you picked 
Sports
icicles off of your 

Production 
beanie at Soldier 
Editor 

Field, I put my cheesehead on and tried to stay out of the 85 degrees weather. Talk about a frozen tundra. While you woke up early to watch T.O. warm up, dancing to the tune of his headphones, I was waking up at 10 a.m. to watch what­ever game FOX decided to show on Sunday. But don’t worry — I had my pop­corn ready, straight from the microwave, while you waited in line behind that one guy who ordered too many beers. 
But Los Angeles really has everything. Look to the left and you see the shining sea under the spacious skies. Look to the right and there are the purple mountains majesty, above the fruited plains. But nowhere in America the Beautiful did it mention a football stadium, and God for­bid it mention an NFL team. In between the mountains and ocean lie two basket­ball teams (one legendary, one laughable), an up-and-coming hockey team, two soc­cer rivals, two college football programs, and one baseball team (no, the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim do not count unless you want to drive an hour down the 5 Freeway to get to the stadium from the city). Nowhere in there is a mention of an NFL team. 
Nashville has one; so does Jacksonville 
— heck, even Buffalo has something that we don’t that isn’t called a snow day. It’s baffling isn’t it? The second-largest metropolis in the United States isn’t home to a team in one of the biggest sports busi­nesses in the world. I have yet to see an NFL game, but remain a fervent football fan (taking time away from recent vaca­tions in Hawaii and Orlando to catch a Sunday game or two). 
Therfore, L.A. is the mixing pot of foot­ball fans. Just in my immediate family (all Angelinos) I can check off Chargers, Packers, Steelers, Rams, Vikings and Dolphins from the list of diehard fans. My parent’s generation was fortunate enough to have the Raiders and Rams for a num­ber of years until 1994. If it weren’t for Al Davis or Georgia Frontiere I could be try­ing to memorize my seventh coach in 10 years or rooting my team on to win the NFC West at 7-9. Meanwhile my little cousin’s Y2K generation can ride the bandwagon of the regional Chargers until they make the move to Los Angeles. Seriously, though, everyone claims to be a Chargers fan, yet the stadium struggles to fill up, threatening Southern California with a regional television blackout. 
But until the proposed stadium is built (somewhere around 2015) and the Chargers/Vikings/Jaguars/Bills/Raiders/ Rams settle into downtown, I will watch my games on the tube, because I know nothing else. You know it is bad when you find yourself wondering whether the yel­low first down line is only on TV or actual­ly on the field. Boy, those painters must work fast. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
Liberated woman’s theology 
Well that was a provocative title, wasn’t it? Now that I have your eyes, let me start off with a disclaimer. This is not a piece advocating the “make me a sandwich” train of thought when it comes to the denouncement of new age femi­nism. What it is, rather, is a sur­face examination of the college edu­cated American female growing up under the Mark Easley influence of liber­ated woman’s Elephantin theology. These the Room personal observa­tions can and should be qualified as limited, but nonetheless are a valid sample taken from the stated population and prop­er analysis can be rendered. 

You see, for centuries up until the modern age, gender roles were defined. Yes, there were weaknesses to this system and an inherit bias that devalued the worth of the female to society. However, the woman has great value to the man and as such a “pedestal” was built over time to pro­tect women from the sinful behavior of men. Women ruled the social scene, the home, dictated culture, art, cuisine. After the revolution of women in the workplace took root and feminism in America propagated, we have continued to lose this tradi­tional way of life. I can understand the initial backlash to not having an opportunity to advance in the real world, if one seeks that for them­selves. Not everyone wants to be a stay-at-home mom, and in 21st 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Century America, you shouldn’t have that as your only option. But there are merits to that traditional way of life and it is not necessarily positive evolution to be able to leave that behind. 
In our day, college educated women are taught to believe that they not only can break the oft mentioned “glass ceiling,” but that they should seek to do so by pursuing a career and putting off marriage. While I agree that for the driven women, who are able to go head to head with competitive men and bite their heads off (not necessarily an unattractive quality), this is certainly a worthy philosophy, but some women do not fit that description. I know countless young women who don’t know exact­ly what they would like to do with their lives, because they don’t want to be a doctor, engineer, lawyer or business woman when they get out of school. 
When it comes down to it, women have the ultimate trump card. They could claw their way through society and up the corporate and political ladders of our time working their butts off for years, or they could find a nice, successful man to marry. Once again this isn’t the “make me a sandwich” argument. It is a societal fact that I feel women are more and more taught to ignore. What many feminists fail to recognize is the American man has also evolved. In Asia and the Middle East, marriage remains very traditional. The man and woman are defined as they have been for generations. In America, the man and the family unit are a lot more flexible, having developed in the more liberal western tradition. And even better, in America you can divorce someone if it doesn’t work out without significant social conse­quences. I do not advocate this at all, one should make sure to find a good one the first time (a lot more reward­ing in the long run), but when com­pared relative to more traditional places where a woman sometimes is pressured to kill herself if her hus­band dies or is stoned to death for adultery or is the scarlet letter when she gets divorced, it’s a pretty good deal. Not to mention with all the legal and financial protections avail­able these days when one enters into marriage, it’s amazing to me how American women aren’t roping in men left and right. 
I guess what I’m trying to say to all you ladies out there is while I encourage you to follow your dreams, you should also not let a good oppor­tunity slip you by. Don’t be afraid to be a homemaker for your future career. Don’t be afraid to marry ear­lier. And don’t buy into the super­woman myth that you can have your career and a great family life if you don’t have superwoman personality, skills and drive. Marrying for love and money is often a smart decision, and there is no sense in putting that off if you’ve found it. 
Nota bene for all the guys that made it to the end of this article: If you can get that sugar mama, go for it. You’re welcome gender studies majors, finally a viewpoint you can talk about. Keep it classy ND! 
Mark Easley is a junior majoring in computer science. He can be reached at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Exit, pursued by a bear.” 
Stage directions from William Shakespeare English dramatist and poet 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The heart has its reasons which reason knows nothing of.” 
Blaise Pascal French mathematician and physicist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, January 20, 2011 page 9 
Let it rip 

What’s the effect in our own lives of feeling chosen? Remember walking down your high school hallway to where the list of who made the basket­ball team or the Spring play was post­
ed? Squinting  
over the heads of the swarm of  Fr. Lou DelFra  
your classmates,  
your heart thumping, eyes  Faithpoint  
darting up and  

down the list. Remember the feeling you got when you saw your name? 
Unfortunately, the converse is also true — all of us can remember the feeling of scanning the list once, twice, three times and feeling the dread become reality. Not getting chosen for something is one of the worst feelings in life. 
Moments of being chosen, or reject­ed, are some of the most intense, and indelible, moments of our lives. 
As we begin a new semester, the Church too begins a new cycle of read­ings, in which we find ourselves again at the beginning of Jesus’ public min­istry. All four Gospels begin their account of Jesus’ public ministry by recording the same event: the baptism of Jesus in the Jordan. John the Baptist immerses Jesus in the river’s waters, and as Jesus emerges, the sky opens and the Spirit descends upon him like a dove. And the voice of God is heard through the heavens, reveal­ing Jesus for the first time publically as the Chosen One: “This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased.” 
Remember what it was like to get picked for a study abroad program, or a graduate school, or a research grant; or someone you liked asked you on a date; or an employer said, “Congratulations, the job is yours.” You will probably remember that the reality of being chosen gives you not just an adrenaline rush that wears off the next morning, but a deep-seated confidence about yourself. Your life suddenly seems to have purpose and direction. Your identity suddenly feels much more firm and secure. Spiritually, we often say at such times that we feel blessed, that we feel God is watching over our life and taking care of us. 
I think of moments of being chosen when I read the early chapters of the Gospels, beginning with Jesus’ bap­tism. He experiences this powerful confirmation from God of his identity: “You are my beloved.” We can try to imagine the other spiritual realities that Jesus experienced, flowing from this confirmation: “Your life is dear to me. You have a special purpose. Your life will unfold in a providential direc­tion. I am with you.” 
When you receive an endorsement like this from a booming voice thun­dering out of heaven, you’re feeling pretty good about your life! You can pretty much let it rip … 

Which, of course, is precisely what Jesus does. From the moment of his baptism on, Jesus heads into the vil­lages of Galilee, and unleashes the power and charisma of his newly con­firmed identity — preaching, healing, cleansing lepers, challenging unjust authorities, raising the dead, casting out demons. The Kingdom of God explodes forth into the lives of the people whom Jesus encounters. And it all begins with this moment at the Jordan, this utterly convicting experi­ence of being chosen, by God. 
As we toe the line of the beginning of the Spring semester, here’s the key for us: as Christians, that is, as people in whom Jesus dwells, as people for whom, as St Paul writes, “It is no longer I that live but Christ that lives within me” — as such people, the exact same thing that was true for Jesus is now true for each of us. 
What God spoke to Jesus that day — “You are my beloved, you are the one I have chosen” — God is saying to each one of us, into the deepest center of our being. “I love you, and so I choose you — to be my beloved.” 
There is one thing, the Gospels sug­gest, that puts a confident strut in our step as we begin a new challenge, that lifts our shoulders, that makes us believe that we have an irreplaceable part to play in the world, that our lives have meaning and direction. And it turns out not to be grades, status, good looks, popularity, intelligence, interpersonal skills, a great job — or all those other things that we feel if we just had a little more of, then our lives would really start rolling. 
These things have their place, but in the end, what the Gospels tell us, is that there is only one thing we need to have confidence about our life and where it’s headed. 
We need to experience the voice of God, our Creator, say into the center of our being: “You are my beloved daughter; my beloved son. You are my beloved creation, chosen to live as my own image and likeness. And you will always be precisely this.” 
So as a new semester begins, we pray for the same confirmation of our deepest identity — as the beloved chil­dren of God — especially in those parts of our lives where we feel far from God, or insecure, or fearful of the future. And we pray that this confir­mation gives to us what it gave to Jesus — the courage, the charisma, the ambition, the love to build up the Kingdom of God, in our divinely inspired and unrepeatable way. 
For nothing less than this, we have been chosen. 
This week’s column is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, of Campus Ministry and the ACE Program. He can be reached at del­fra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

One less lonely Class of 2011 
Thank you, Notre Dame foot­ball, for making everyone forget that the Class of 2011 is the losingest class in the program’s history. It has not felt that way for the past two months. We saw an unbeaten November, which included our first win over USC since 2001, and a dominant win over Miami in the Sun Bowl. The last Notre Dame class to see two wins in bowl games? That would be the Class of 1996. 
Congrats to the Class of 2011. Thanks to our football team, we’re going out as winners. So enjoy every minute of our last semester. As Billy Madison once advised a young, chubby student, “For the love of God, cherish it!” 
In the words of another lover of higher education, Asher Roth, “Do I really have to graduate? Or can I just stay here for the rest of my life?” 
Charlie Nejedly 
senior off campus Jan. 19 

Mike Brey a class act 
On Tuesday night, I arrived back at my dorm at about 10:30 from the store. After shuffling for a couple of seconds to find my ID, I heard a voice behind me. “Mind if I follow you in?” I turned around, and behind me stood Coach Mike Brey. I opened the door for him, and he then pro­ceeded to walk throughout the dorm, knock on doors and talk to students to make sure they were coming out in force for the Cincinnati game. He did all of this while he could have been at home with his family on a Tuesday night. 
This dedication to the program is not a onetime thing. Coach Brey has come to my dorm before for official meetings to recruit students to attend the games. He sends us an e-mail for every home game asking us to be there for the team. He meets with stu­dents at Legends on the nights he does his radio show with Jack Nolan. Coach Brey should be applauded for his dedication to the basketball program and this school. He has shown time and time again that he is the right coach for us as a student body. 
To quote a friend: “Mike Brey is a class act.” 
Michael Matheson 
senior Alumni Hall Jan. 17 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Thursday, January 20, 2010 
By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 
More not less vampires: 

Vampires! No not pale vam­pires with emotions who fight werewolves. In “Fright Night” a remake of an 80s comedy hit, Craig Gillespie (“Lars and the Real Girl”) directs a team of witty, talented actors including Colin Farrell, Anton Yelchin and David Tennant. The story takes place in your average 80s suburb where one high school student suspects that his mysterious neighbor is a vampire. 
The good, bad and the comedy: 
Here ’s a spoiler: “The Hangover 2” will be hilarious. Yes, the whole crew is back on the eve of another wedding (this time in Thailand) where Stu (Ed Helms) takes all the precautions imaginable to make sure what happened in Vegas doesn ’t happen in Thailand. One cameo by Bill Clinton, a Zack Efron appear­ance, a truck’s worth of booze and hopefully another album of pictures later, this movie has the makings of another night to remember (or not). 
File “Cowboys and Aliens,” a film where cowboys … fight aliens under “ The Bad.” No, it’s not a comedy per se, but if you ’ve seen the trailer and wound up asking yourself “Why?” or “How?” then you know that while the cast is packed and Spielberg’s name is attached to the film, this should be one hell of a laugher. 
Horror movies that might actually scare us: 
The top horror movie to look out for in 2011 is “Atrocious,” a “Paranormal Activity” meets “Blair Witch Project” film out of Spain. The trailer looks gen­uinely scary, so now the ques­tion becomes whether “Atrocious ” is what “Paranormal Activity” couldn’t be — believable. 
“Don’t Be Afraid of the Dark” is the directorial debut of Troy Nixey, Guermillo del Toro ’s protégé. The story of a little girl who discovers monsters at home has been done a million times but Guermillo del Toro’s name being associated with this and a rare Guy Pearce sighting is enough to make this film worth the wait. 
The year of superhero movies: 
This year features an over­stuffed line -up of superhero movies: “Thor,” “X-Men: First Class,” “The Green Latern,” “Sucker Punch,” “I am Number Four,” “Captain America” and “The Green Hornet.” 
Probably the most anticipat­ed of the group is “Thor.” The film features a star-studded cast including Natalie Portman and Anthony Hopkins and marks a break from the cam­eraman-becomes-Spiderman or billionaire -becomes -Batman type of superhero movie. Instead, Thor’s back-story is mythical, which should be something fresh in a year of superhero films with back-sto­ries that seem a bit redundant. Additionally, in “Sucker Punch,” Zack Snyder (“300”) brings his unique flair to his first ever original script about a girl admitted to a mental institution who dreams up an alternate realty where she and her hot friends kick some ass. 
Early Oscar hopefuls: 

It seems these days that any emotional boxing movie gets an Oscar nomination (which is not to say that films like “Million Dollar Baby” or “The Fighter” are bad). With “Moneyball,” the story of how Oakland A’s GM Billy Beane turned the low-budget team into a contender using unorthodox methods, baseball might enter the Oscar ranks. With Brad Pitt playing the charismatic Beane, Philip Seymour Hoffman as Arty Howe (the team ’s manager) and Bennett Miller (“Capote”) in the director’s seat, this one is as close to a sure shot Oscar favorite as there is. 
David Fincher, who might have to buy a new house to fit all his Best Director awards for “The Social Network,” directs the American adaptation of the international hit film, “The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo. ” Slated for a December release and featuring a talented cast headed by Daniel Craig (who will need the good attention after “Cowboys and Aliens”), this film should be as good as if not better than the original. 
Our Yearly Dose of Pixar: 
Pixar gets its own category for an obvious reason. This year’s installment is a continu­ation of Pixar ’s planned sequels, “Cars 2. ” Although “Cars” is widely regarded as “the worst” (if you can really call it that) of Pixar’s recent films, the studio has decided to take a different direction with the movie and from the first few trailers it looks to be worth giving the benefit of the doubt to Pixar, the studio that never fails. 

Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Thursday, January 20, 2010 page 11 
Student Standup/Humor Artists Legends10 p.m. 
Head out to Legends at 10 
p.m. to see the funniest kids 
on campus. Student Stand ­up/Humor Artists think they can make the audience roll on the floor with their wit. You be the judge. 
Notre Dame Student Film Festival DPAC 
6:30 and 9:30 p.m. 
Check out the best aspiring producers and directors from the Notre Dame FTT depart ­ment at the 22nd Annual Student Film Festival. Tickets are $6, $5 faculty/staff and $3 students. 

Hawthorne Heights with Identity CrisisLegends10 p.m. 
Hawthorne Heights headlines a show with Identity Crisis at 10 pm. The Ohio band promises to put on a good show, arriving at campus after their release of their album “Skeletons and Midwesterners.” 
Women’s basketball vs. St. John’s Purcell Pavilion 2 p.m. 
Take a break from studying and come support the women’s basketball team as they play against St. John’s. The game will take place in the Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center. 

SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, January 20, 2011 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS — After a dis­mal exit in Denver, Josh McDaniels never considered taking a break from coach­ing. 
The former NFL boy won­der, hired by the Broncos two years ago at age 32 and jobless the last four weeks of the season, wanted back in as soon as possible. McDaniels got a two -year contract as the St. Louis Rams’ offensive coordinator, and believes it ’s a good place to relaunch his career. 
“I love coaching football,” McDaniels said on a tele ­conference from Denver on Wednesday. “I’ve missed it for the last six weeks and I’m eager to get started with the players and coach­es. 
“I definitely wanted to get back in.” 
Rams coach Steve Spagnuolo began a news conference in St. Louis on Wednesday by announcing the impending retirement of 70 -year-old quarterbacks coach Dick Curl, who also had the title of assistant head coach. McDaniels ’ brother, Ben, was quarter­backs coach in Denver this season, but Spagnuolo said that job had not been dis­cussed. 
“Josh and I are going to talk about that,” Spagnuolo said. “We really didn’t have that discussion because this is fairly new, but when he gets here we’ll talk about it.” 
In a conference call from Denver, McDaniels deferred to the Rams. 
“First of all, I don’t make any of those decisions,” he said. “Coach Spags, I’m sure he’ll do what’s best for the staff or the team. If that’s something he wants to look at, I”m sure we will.” 
McDaniels said expected to be in St. Louis to start work “shortly.” 
McDaniels replaces Pat Shurmur, hired as head coach of the Cleveland Browns last week after a year helping to develop rookie quarterback Sam Bradford. Despite lacking a deep passing game most of the year, the Rams improved by a touchdown per game and finished 7-9 overall, a six-win improvement. 
McDaniels had little to say about his downfall with the Broncos, saying he was “very appreciative” of the chance and “learned a lot.” 
NFL 
MLB 

St. Louis hires McDaniels 
Twins and Pavano 
agree to two-year deal 
clear. 
“Wh at’s expected of me initially was laid out clearly for me and I’m sure that’s the way the rest of the organization is run­ning, too.” 
During the search for a replacement, Spagnuolo said he kept rookie quarter­back Sam Bradford informed “just to say ‘Trust me, I’ll make the right deci­sion, ’ and said Bradford told him he’d have no prob­lem adapting to a new sys­tem. 
“He said, ‘Well, you know what, I came in out of col­lege and didn’t know any ­thing and learned an But he took one shot at offense, and didn’t do too Denver in describing the bad,’” Spagnuolo said. “He franchise he’s joining. wasn’t fazed at all. Sam can 

“I think it’s important to play in any offense.” have a solid direction and a Spagnuolo said the first solid structure and really item of business in his have all the people pulling search was recalling which in the same coaches he’s had direction, ” the most trouble McDaniels defending s a i d . throughout his “That’s NFL career. He what’s real-“Ilove coaching said the schemes ly so created by 
football.Idefnitely 
appealing McDaniels and 
w anted to getback in.” 
to me about the 34-year-old’s St. Louis, success with that the Tom Brady and 
Josh McDaniels 
direction is Matt Cassel 
Rams offensive coordinator 
made the hire an 
easy choice. 
“I just did a lit­
tle study of the 
toughest schemes, the people that gave us problems in defend­ing, and it led me directly to Josh, ” Spagnuolo said. “I think his record as an offen­sive coordinator speaks for itself, I think his work with quarterbacks is well docu­mented and I think he ’s going to be a great fit for the Rams going forward.” 
Spagnuolo was Giants defensive coordinator when they upset the unbeaten Patriots, with McDaniels as offensive coordinator, in the Super Bowl after the 2007 season. 
Associated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS — The mus­tache isn’t going anywhere. 
Carl Pavano and the Twins agreed on a $16.5 million, two-year contract Wednesday night, ensuring the popular right-hander who made the ‘stache cool again in Minnesota will be back to pro­vide stability to the team’s rotation. 
Pavano had several offers on the table and surprisingly con­sidered a return to the New York Yankees before ultimately deciding to stay with the club that helped the 35-year-old have a career resurgence in 2010. 
“I’m excited,” Pavano said on a conference call. “When you go through free agency, there’s a lot of big decisions that you have. Obviously I couldn’t walk away from the rapport I have with my teammates, the staff and the organization.” 
Pavano went 17-11 with a 
3.75 ERA and seven complete games last season to help the Twins win the AL Central title. More impressive for him, he pitched 221 innings, the sec-ond-highest total in what had been an injury-plagued career. 
“He was in demand,” Twins general manager Bill Smith said. “I know he had a lot of teams that called him. The best thing we both had going for us is he kept saying that he wanted to come back to the Twins and we kept saying that he was the one guy we really wanted to get.” 
Pavano came to Minnesota in a 2009 trade with Cleveland and has been reinvigorated after four tough seasons with the Yankees. Injuries caused him to miss the entire 2006 season and much of three oth­ers, and he made only 26 starts for New York. 
He was lampooned in the city tabloids as being fragile and couldn’t wait to leave after 2008. Despite all the acrimony, Pavano said he has always kept in contact with Yankees GM Brian Cashman and still holds him in high regard. 
“It shows a lot that he was going to stick his neck out there for me if something was going to work out,” Pavano said of the possibility of return­ing. 
He’ll once again join a Twins rotation that includes Francisco Liriano and Scott Baker, with Brian Duensing, Nick Blackburn and Kevin Slowey likely competing for the final two spots. On a team with so many young starters, get­ting the veteran Pavano back was essential. 
“Carl Pavano has been a leader on that staff since we acquired him in August of 2009,” Smith said. “We can’t say enough good things about what he has brought to us.” 
The Yankees swept the Twins out of the first round of the playoffs in 2010, but Pavano ultimately decided on coming back to Target Field for another run. Veteran slug­ger Jim Thome was one of the biggest advocates for the Twins after he re-signed, bom­barding Pavano with text mes­sages beckoning him back to Minnesota. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

If you or someone you care about If you have 3 quarters, 4 dimes, and In the average lifetime, a person will The surface area of an average-The Eisenhower interstate system has been sexually assaulted, we 4 pennies, you have $1.19. You walk the equivalent of 5 times sized brick is 79 cm squared. requires that one mile in every fivePERSONAL can help. also have the largest amount of around the equator. ——————————————— must be straight. These straight money in coins without being able ——————————————— sections are usable as airstrips in 
For more information, visit Notre to make change for a dollar. The 57 on Heinz ketchup bottles The most common name in the times of war or other emergencies. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu represents the number of varieties world is Mohammed. go it alone. Notre Dame has many ——————————————— of pickles the company once had. The first known contraceptive was resources in place to assist you. If ——————————————— The numbers '172' can be found on It is believed that Shakespeare was crocodile dung, used by Egyptians you or someone you love needs the back of the U.S. $5 dollar bill in In the early days of the telephone, 46 around the time that the King in 2000 B.C. confidential support or assistance, the bushes at the base of the operators would pick up a call and James Version of the Bible was please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. WANTED Lincoln Memorial. use the phrase, "Well, are you written. Rhode Island is the smallest state For more information, visit ND's there?". It wasn't until 1895 that with the longest name. The official website at: http://pregnancysup-STRAT-O-MATIC baseball league President Kennedy was the fastest someone suggested answering the In Psalms 46, the 46th word from name, used on all state documents, port@nd.edu looking for managers. Call 574-271-random speaker in the world with phone with the phrase "number the first word is shake and the 46th is "Rhode Island and Providence 
0185 upwards of 350 words per minute. please?" word from the last word is spear. Plantations." ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Thursday, January 20, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
NBA 

Nets owner will not pursue Anthony deal 

Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. — The megadeal to bring Carmelo Anthony to the New Jersey Nets is dead. 
Nets owner Mikhail Prokhorov told the team to 
end trade talks with the Denver Nuggets on We dnesday, saying he was unhappy with how it played 
out in public, that it took too long, got too expensive and cost the team games. 
The Russian billionaire also canceled a 
planned meeting with Anthony on Thursday and said there was no chance — that’s a big nyet — that the trade would be resurrected. 
“There comes a time when the price is simply too expen­sive,” Prokhorov said in a news conference before the Nets’ game against Utah. “I have instructed our team to walk away from the deal.” 
Previously, New Jersey had offered to ship six players and at least two first-round draft picks to Denver in a three-team deal that would have sent Anthony to the Nets along with former Pistons teammates Chauncey Billups and Richard Hamilton. 
Prokhorov decided Tuesday to end talks with the Nuggets, and general man­
ager Billy 

“There com es a tim e 
King said he w hen the price is informed 
sim ply too expensive.” them via a text message as Prokhorov 
Mikhail Prokhorov 
was speaking Nets owner on 
Wednesday. 
“Really I am 
not happy 
with the way this deal has gone until now,” Prokhorov said. “It has taken too long ... and I believe it has cost us several games.” 
The Nets have lost six straight, including all four on a just-completed West Coast road trip that ended in Oakland on Monday. 
Prokhorov said the Nets received permission from Denver to talk with Anthony 
on Monday night, but he never spoke to the All-Star forward. 


page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, January 20, 2011 
CCHA 
continued from page 20 
Michigan faces rival Michigan State in Detroit, Mich. before traveling to Miami and hosting Ohio State and Western Michigan. The Wolverines are led by sopho­more defenseman Lee Moffie, a two-way player who anchors a stout defense and pushes forward in the transi­tion game to help create break-away opportunities. 
No. 12 Miami of Ohio (13­8-3/10-6-2-1 CCHA), 33 points. 
Despite sitting five points behind Notre Dame, the tra­ditional RedHawk power­house is in firm control of its 
destiny, with six consecu­tive games against the three ranked CCHA teams ahead after traveling to Mi chig an State. If the RedHawks can find a way to sweep the Irish and Wolverines, on each other during the tail end of the conference slate. Ferris State’s toughest remaining games will be when they host the Irish in mid-February. If the Bulldogs can pull off an upset or two and avoid tripping up on a road trip to Northern Michigan, Alaska or Ohio State, they may find them­selves near the top of the league standings with just a little bit of help. 

Even though Western Michigan is ranked in the top-25 in the country, they currently sit sixth in the con­ference behind Alaska with only 26 points. The Broncos (12-6-6/6-5-5-3 CCHA) have been hurt by a mediocre con­ference performance and will almost certainly not be in the 
“You could have any one ofeightteam s, nine team s,potentially fnish in the top four or fve in the standings.” 
Jeff Jackson Irish coach 
Miami will earn the league title, barring any slip-ups against Western Michigan or Lake Superior. The RedHawks split an earlier series at home with the Irish and have yet to face Michigan this year, whom they will face in the friendly confines of Goggin Ice Arena. 
Ferris State (11-10-4/8-8­3-2 CCHA), 29 points. 
Though the Bulldogs fall outside the league’s clearly established top-three teams, their upcoming schedule gives them an opportunity to quickly ascend the rankings if the league leaders beat up running for the league title. Ohio State, Northern Michigan, Lake S u p e r i o r, Michigan State and Bowling Green round out the rest of the league and will not threat­en the Irish or any of the other teams contending for the CCHA 

crown. 
One thing is sure, however 

— the final weeks of the sea­son promise to be competi­tive and pressure-filled, a test for which the freshman-laden Irish squad will have to prepare. 
“You could have any one of eight teams, nine teams, potentially finish in the top four or five in the standings,” Jackson said. “It’s that close, and I think it’ll be that close right to the final game.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Matchups 
continued from page 20 
Other top-20 finishers for the Irish were sophomore Lian Osier (9th, sabre), sophomore Jason Choy (14th, sabre), sen­ior Hayley Reese (18th, foil) and senior Steve Kubik (19th, foil). 
Overall Farr said he was pleased with what he saw in Dallas, but stressed that the Irish still have improvements to make before the end of season tournaments. 
“We had a lot of good finishes and saw that there is a lot of room to work on, and now we have a good foundation for the rest of the season,” Farr said. 
With the a few exceptions, Farr said that most of the com­petitors at Dallas will go on to represent the Irish at the NCAA championships. He said he sees the results from Dallas as an encouraging sign of things to come. 

“We are comparable to the rest of the really good schools out there and will be competi­tive,” Farr said. “There are a lot of good things out here and nothing too big to work on, individual technique, but over­all the kids looked great.” 
Both the men and women fencers will next compete at the NYU Duels Friday. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 
NHL 

Stafford to miss time with injury 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. — Drew Stafford is expected to miss two games with a mild groin injury, leaving the Buffalo Sabres down yet another top-line forward in their bid to climb back into playoff con­tention. 
Coach Lindy Ruff listed Stafford as day to day Wednesday, a day after he was hurt in a 2-1 over­time win over Montreal. Stafford played only two shifts before leav­ing in the first period. 
The initial prognosis was good news of sorts for Ruff. His team, after all, is already minus center Derek Roy, who will miss the rest of the season after tearing his left quadriceps tendon last month. 
“It is a relief,” Ruff said. “He’s walking fine and his strength is pretty good. So, all that bodes well for coming back quickly.” 
Ruff called it doubtful that Stafford will play at Boston on Thursday or the following day, when the Sabres host the New York Islanders. There’s a possibili­ty Stafford could return for Buffalo’s game at Long Island on Sunday. 
Stafford has been one of the 


AP Drew Stafford attempts a shot against Montreal earlier this season. The forward will miss two games after suffering a groin injury. 
Sabres top scoring threats in help­ing the team go on a 6-2-1 run in its past nine. He ranks second on the team with 15 goals, and has scored five — including two game-winners — in the past eight games. 
The win over Montreal allowed the Sabres to even their overall record at 20-20-5 and also even their home record at 11-11-1, a significant turnaround for a team that opened the season going 0-6­1 at Buffalo. 
With 45 points, the Sabres, entering Wednesday’s action, were tied with Florida for 10th place in the Eastern Conference standings, and eight points behind Atlanta for the eighth and final playoff spot. 

But as good as the run has been, offense remains a question mark for Buffalo. With 123 goals, the Sabres rank 20th in the NHL. 
Though Roy was hurt on Dec. 23, his 35 points (10 goals, 25 assists) had led the team until Thomas Vanek took over top spot with two assists against the Canadiens. He has 37 points (17 goals, 20 assists). 
Stafford’s injury led to more line-juggling in practice. Ruff had Jochen Hecht centering Vanek and Jason Pominville on the team’s top line, followed by Tim Connolly cen­tering Tyler Ennis and Cody McCormick. 


Thursday, January 20, 2011 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 20, 2011 

NFL 

Celtics victorious in Garnett’s second game back 
Pierce scores 22, O’Neal records double-double in win; Anthony scores 35 in win 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — For Kevin Garnett, returning from an injury is all about getting back the rhythm he has developed with his Boston teammates. 
“It’s like being at a party, and the record skips, and you’ve got to get back on beat,” he said after helping the Celtics erase an eight-point, fourth-quarter deficit and beat the Detroit Pistons 86-82 on Wednesday night. “So, you know, the record skipped a bit. But I’m at the party; I’ve just got to find that groove again. 
“For y’all who can’t dance, don’t take it personally.” 
Paul Pierce scored 22 points and Ray Allen hit a jumper with 25 seconds left to give the Celtics their first lead of the second half. Shaquille O’Neal had 12 points and 12 rebounds, and Garnett added 11 points and six boards in his second game back after missing nine with a leg injury. 
Allen finished with a season-low seven points on 2-for-8 shooting, missing all four of his 3-point attempts. But the Celtics called a play for him out of a timeout and he caught the pass off a screen, turned and (with his foot on the 3-point line) hit the open jumper. 
“I wasn’t shooting the ball particularly well,” said Allen, who needs 28 more 3-pointers to tie Reggie Miller atop the NBA’s career list. “I didn’t real­ly think I had a great rhythm. But I always feel like the next shot is going to go in, so I was never worried about it.” 
It was the fourth straight vic­tory for the Celtics. 
Rodney Stuckey scored 15 points and Greg Monroe had 13 points and nine rebounds for the Pistons, who led by eight with 8 minutes left but did not score over the game’s last 2:43. 
“We competed with the best team in the East, and one of the better teams in this league, on their home court,” Pistons guard Tracy McGrady said. “If we can give this type of effort night-in and night-out, we’re going to give ourselves a chance. We just have to learn how to close out games and to execute down the stretch.” 
The Pistons had won three in a row after coach John Kuester shook up his lineup, benching Richard Hamilton and inserting Monroe at center and McGrady at point guard. It was the longest winning streak of the season for Detroit, which opened with an 11-26 record. 
The Pistons led by eight on Ben Gordon’s 3-pointer, but the Celtics made three straight bas­kets before Chris Wilcox hit one free throw to make it 76-73 with 5:23 left. Rajon Rondo took a jumper near the top of the key, and O’Neal tipped the rebound off the backboard before grabbing it and laying it in; McGrady swiped at him, and the free throw made it 76-all. 
It was a two-point game with 
3:02 left when O’Neal missed two free throws, and Detroit made it 82-78 on Monroe’s reverse layup. But Garnett scored inside, and then Pierce made a jumper in the lane. 


After McGrady missed, Garnett missed a long jumper but Rondo got the rebound and called timeout. The Celtics ran Allen off a screen to get him open near the 3-point line on the right side and he sank the basket; it was initially ruled a 3-pointer, but replays showed his right foot was on the line, making the score 84-82. 
Stuckey missed a leaner in the lane, and Garnett grabbed the rebound, then hit one of two foul shots. Gordon drove and missed a layup over Glen “Big Baby” Davis’ outstretched arms. 


Nuggets 112, Thunder 107 
Carmelo Anthony sees the New Jersey Nets ‘ pullout of trade talks as a speed bump on his way out of the Mile High City and not necessarily a detour. 
The Denver Nuggets All-Star forward said Wednesday night that he still thinks he’ll be trad­ed by the Feb. 24 deadline and that he doesn’t foresee himself going to a contender simply as a rent-a-player for the final two months of the season. 
He also demurred when asked after the Nuggets’ 112­107 victory over the Oklahoma City Thunder if he still felt stay­ing in Denver long-term was a possibility. 
“I’m not answering any more questions about an extension, about being traded,” he said. “I’m focused on being here right now. Until anything hap­pens, you guys will see me upstairs in practice, playing hard, doing what I got to do, focusing. 

“And, then, when anything happens, all you guys will have a big story to write about.” 
Anthony scored 35 points, hours after Nets owner Mikhail Prokhorov announced he would no longer pursue the All-Star forward in a megadeal that had been the buzz of the NBA for weeks. 
After the game, Anthony told the team’s TV network while being both cheered and jeered: “It was personal. ... In spite of everything that is going on, I’m still here. ... I’m still a Denver Nugget.” 
Despite his dominating per­formance, Anthony said there was no weight lifted from his shoulders in light of Prokhorov’s pulling the plug. 

Thursday, January 20, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Mavericks top defending champion Lakers 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — When his top play­ers are healthy, Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle has the lux­ury of bringing off the bench Jason Terry and Shawn Marion, a pair of longtime starters capa­ble of scoring 20 points any night. 
Dallas, however, hasn’t been anywhere near healthy the last few weeks. So Carlisle has been starting one, the other or both. And the Mavs were losing — badly. 
Terry and Marion returned to their roles as super subs on Wednesday night, each scoring 22 points to lift Dallas past the Los Angeles Lakers 109-100, ending an ugly six-game losing streak. 
Jason Kidd snapped out of an awful stretch of his own, scor­ing a season-high 21 points to help the Mavericks end their worst losing streak in a decade. 
“We know what we are capa­ble of doing night in and night out, but we have to bring it,” Terry said. “Early on in the sea­son we all bought into the sys­tem and all bought into our col­lective roles. Of late we’ve had some inconsistency and people going in and out of the lineup, but now we are going to be able to see what we have again once we are consistent with our line­up again.” 
Dallas was riding high at 24-5 a few weeks ago. Then Dirk Nowitzki hurt a knee, Caron Butler was lost for the season and everything cratered. The Mavs went in a 2-9 funk that dropped them from the second-best record in the Western Conference to sixth-best if they’d lost this game. They’d lost each of their last five games by at least 10 points, their worst such stretch since their Mav-wrecks days in the mid­1990s. 
They were ripe for another defeat Wednesday, down by 11 in the first half and still trailing by eight midway through the third quarter. Then, everything changed. 
The defense got stop after stop, and they could do no wrong on offense. Kidd scored 13 points in the third quarter alone (his most points in any game this season had been 16) and Dallas had roared back so much it went into the final peri­od leading by nine. 
“We needed this one,” Marion said. 
Kobe Bryant tried getting the Lakers going all by himself, but couldn’t do it. Terry and Marion kept the Mavericks up by at least seven points the entire fourth quarter, sending Los Angeles to just its second loss in 10 games. 
“We were making mistakes all night on defense, because offen­sively things were going well for us,” Bryant said. “It was one of those games that was fool’s gold. We were playing well offensively and got a lead, but we were making mistakes defensively.” 
Pau Gasol scored 23 points, but took only four shots in the second half. Bryant had 21 points and 10 assists, and Lamar Odom had 20 points and 10 rebounds. 
During the game-changing third quarter, Los Angeles scored only 17 points. The Lakers also turned the ball over seven times, from Andrew Bynum getting caught twice spending more than three sec­onds in the lane to Bryant throwing a pass that Gasol never saw coming. 
“They got us on our heels,” Lakers coach Phil Jackson said. 
But who could’ve expected the Mavs to make a season-high 55 percent of their shots? Especially after they missed their first seven 3-pointers. 
Dallas had a lot of things go wrong early, from newcomer Sasha Pavlovic possibly rebreaking his nose on the game’s opening play to Tyson Chandler vomiting and spend­ing much of the first half in the locker room. 
Nowitzki is still regaining his stride. In just his third game back, he was 5 of 15 for 14 points. 
The biggest surprise was Kidd. After missing 13 of his last 14 shots, and 12 of his last 13 3-pointers, he made 8 of 12, and 5 of 8 behind the arc. He also had 10 assists. 
Another surprise was Pavlovic. 


He moved into the starting lineup to help put Terry and Marion on the bench. That’s unusual considering he was on the last day of a 10-day con­tract, and he just broke his nose in the previous game. 
He was in no hurry to get it X-rayed to find out the latest dam­age. At least he got one bit of good news after the game: another 10-day contract. 
NOTES: Bynum banged his elbow, but stayed in the game. Jackson said it would be exam­ined, but he expected it to be OK. ... Gasol went over 13,000 career points. ... Jackson and Mavs owner Mark Cuban played nice, with neither doing much to raise the stakes in their ver­bal sparring. Cuban said he enjoys the back-and-forth. ... The Mavericks got off to a strange start. In the first quar­ter, they were 8 of 11 on 2­
Brey 
continued from page 20 
attempts. “You’re going to get your butt beat some­times, but when you come back at home, you especial­ly have to be able to regroup and get your team back together. That’s what we did tonight.” 
Notre Dame led 33-19 at the half and extended that lead to 17 points midway through the second half. Cincinnati trailed 57-44 with 2 ½ minutes to play before an 8-0 Bearcats run that included 3s by Larry Davis and Dion Dixon and a pair of Irish turnovers. 
That cut the Irish lead to 57-52 with 1:18 to play, but Hansbrough drew fouls on consecutive possessions and made all four free throws, helping Notre Dame to a 61-53 lead with 45 seconds to play. Freshman guard Eric Atkins (11 points) and sen­ior forward Tim Abromaitis (12 points) each made a pair of free throws, and Hansbrough made one of two, to finish off the Bearcats. 
Notre Dame next turns its attention to Saturday’s home game against Marquette, which beat the Irish 79-57 in Milwaukee on Jan. 10. 
“I think the focus is going to be on a group that really thumped us not too long ago and I’m sure they will be coming after us again,” Brey said. “[Marquette] played the best defense against us all year with St. John’s a close second. They’re going to come in ready to harass us.” 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 



page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 20, 2011 
Centa 
continued from page 20 
points and eight rebounds. It was Murphy’s 12th game this season scoring in double-figures. 
Hen ley said she was happy with her team ’s 
overall performa nce in the second half. 
“In the second half, we did a better job of playing defe nse and limiting turnovers,” Henley said. “We were able to get out and run and attack their [zone] defense. Our defense really did a much better job.” 
The Bel les will try to use the momentum from this win to continue at home wh en they face Kalamazoo tonight. The Hornets are the last team Saint Mary’s will face in their first round of MIAA games, and they are look­ing to close out this open­ing segment of play on a strong note. 
“We’r e really putting the focus back on us in terms of preparing [for Kalamazoo],” Henley said. “We’re focusing on us in terms of defensively play­ing as a team and pro ­tecting the paint. We need to not let teams come in and score very easily, and cut down on mistakes and turnovers in the transi­tion game. We’re at the point where we’re really shifting the focus on us and our defense.” 
The Hornets will play at Saint Mary’s tonig ht at 
7:30 p.m. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 

Fuentes agrees to two-year deal with Athletics 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. — The Oakland Athletics have all kinds of options in the bullpen — and they like it that way. 
The A’s added another proven arm to their already deep corps of relievers Wednesday, finalizing a $10.5 million, two -year contract with free-agent lefty Brian Fuentes. 
“We’re excited about the depth and versatility of the bullpen. Not only do we have more options than we’ve ever had, we have multiple guys who can pitch late in games,” assistant general manager David Forst said. 
The sides agreed to the deal last weekend and completed it after Fuentes passed a physical. The incentive-laden contract includes a $6.5 million club 
option for 
2013. The 35-year­ “We’re excited about the depth and  already set up pretty well, to  
o l d F u e n t e s , who grew up in t h e C e n t r a l  versatility of the bullpen.”  c o m e i n a n d make it a little bit stronger is  
Valley  town of  a  win-win sit- 
Merced where  David Forst  uation. ... It’s  
h e s t i l l l i v e s , w a s 4 -1 w i t h  Athletics Assistant G.M.  n e v e r a p r o b l e m  b a d t o  
24  saves  and  a  h a v e  n o t  
2.81 ERA in 48  k no w i n g w h o  
a p p e a r a n c e s  t o  g o  t o  i n  

and 48 innings with the Los games. It’ll be a force to be Angeles Angels and reckoned with.” Minnesota Twins last year. He Fuentes became the second is slated to be a setup man bullpen addition in two days. for manager Bob Geren with Oakland added right-handed Oakland going to 2009 AL reliever Grant Balfour on Rookie of the Year Andrew Tuesday when he finalized an Bailey as closer. $8.1 million, two-year deal. 
“I was told that he’s the On Saturday, the A’s agreed closer. There’s no competition to terms with righty sub ­in my mind,” Fuentes said. mariner Brad Ziegler on a “He’s done a tremendous job. I’ve gotten to watch him from afar. He’s electric, man. When he’s healthy, he’s really, really good.” 
Forst, Geren and general manager Billy Beane drove to Merced last week to court Fuentes, taking him to the top Mexican restaurant in town. 
Fuentes will earn $5 million this season and again in 2012. The A’s must decide within five days of the finish 
of the 2012 World Series whether to exercise his 2013 option or pay him a $500,000 buyout. 
Fuentes also can earn per­formance bonuses with an additional $100,000 each for 30, 40, 45 and 50 games fin­ished and $250,000 each for 55 and 60 games finished. 
If traded, Fuentes would receive a $200,000 bonus. 
“It’s a very young, talented 
group, ” Fuentes said of Oakl and’s staff. “Coming into a staff that was $1.25 million, one-year con­tract to salary arbitration. 


On paper, Oakland seems to have one of the top pitching 
s t a f f s  i n  t h e  A m e r i c a n  
League.  
F u e n t e s  i s  h a p p y  t o  b e  

pitching near his hometown and part of a talented staff. 
ality of his.” 
Right-hander Rich Harden is returning to the A’s and could compete for the fifth starter job after years of injury troubles — though there are several talented candidates for the last rota­tion spot that will be decided once spring training begins next month. 
The A’s led the AL in ERA 
(3.56) and shutouts (17) while holding opponents to a .245 batting average last year, when they remained in the playoff chase until late September before finishing second in the AL West to the eventual AL champion Texas Rangers. 

The most memorable pitch­ing highlight was left-hander Dallas Braden’s perfect game against Tampa Bay on May 9, the first by an A’s pitcher since Hall of Famer Catfish 
“I can ’t get any closer than Oakland. It was a good fit over­

“We defnitely have an 
all,” Fuentes 

opportunity. The pieces 
said. “That was actually my are in place. I see a lot team growing 
of San Francisco in 
up, it’s funny. ... 

this team.” 
I was a big Dave Stewart fan and that Brian Fuentes bulldog person-
Athletics pitcher 
Hunter did it in 1968. 
Along with Braden, Oakland has experienced starters in Brett Anderson, Trevor Cahill and Gio Gonzalez. 
The AL West runners -up also upgraded an offense that hit just 

109 homers and scored 663 runs last season, their second fewest in the last 28 non ­strike seasons. The A’s added middle-of-the order hitters Hideki Matsui, Josh Willingham and David DeJesus. 
“We definitely have an opportunity. The pieces are in place. I see a lot of San Francisco in this team,” Fuentes said of the improba­ble World Series champion Giants across the bay. 


Thursday, January 20, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Thursday, January 20, 2011 page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

At home, on track 
Scott returns, helps Notre Dame snap a two-game skid with win over Cincinnati 

MAGGIE O’BRIEN/The Observer 

Freshman point guard Eric Atkins looks to drive on a Cincinnati defender during the 66-58 Irish victory Wednesday night at Purcell Pavilion. Atkins scored 11 points and added fve assists in the winning effort. 
By MATT GAMBER Dame (15-4, 4-3 Big East), helped the rest of his team-Marquette and St. John’s last 
Sports Writer came off the bench to a chorus mates.” week. The free-throw line was of cheers with 14:30 to play in Scott finished with six points also friendly to Notre Dame, as the first half. He promptly in 15 minutes. Seniors Tyrone the Irish made 19 of their 24
The return of senior forward 

made a 3-pointer that sparked Nash and Ben Hansbrough free throws while allowing theCarleton Scott from a ham-a 10-0 run to give the Irish a each scored 13 points to lead a Bearcats (16-3, 3-3) only eightstring injury helped lift No. 16 16-6 lead, which they never balanced Notre Dame attack free-throw attempts.
Notre Dame to a much-needed 

relinquished. that saw all five starters score “We understand what itvictory Wednesday, as the Irish “[Scott] came off the bench in double figures. takes to win in this league,” snapped a two-game skid by and gave everyone a lift,” Irish The Irish shot 45.5 percent said Hansbrough, who strug­beating No. 25 Cincinnati, 66­coach Mike Brey said. “He was from the field and 50 percent gled from the field (1-for-8) but58, at the Purcell Pavilion. 
a key for us tonight. Just his (7-for-14) from beyond the arc made 11 of 12 free throwScott, who had missed the 
presence on the court as a after shooting less than 20 per-
previous four games for Notre 

leader and a voice really cent in road losses to see BREY/page 17 
SMC BASKETBALL 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
Junior guard Maggie Ronan dropped a career-high 23 points Tuesday night to help Saint Mary’s grab a 74-53 conference win over Trine. 
The Belles (11 -5) took a 37 -25 lead into halftime after outscoring Trine (4-11) 24-11 over the final six and a half minutes of the first half. The Thunder did not come within more than 12 points of the lead for the remainder of the contest. 
Ronan, who averages 11.4 points per game, was nine­for-nine from the free throw line, and was able to find the gaps in Trine’s defense to create scoring opportunities. She also hit seven of 14 shots from the floor. Belles’ coach Jenn Henley said she was pleased with Ronan’s per­formance. 
“Maggie did a good job attacking the defense and getting hit on the offensive drive,” Henley said. “She was perfect from the foul line.” 
As a team, the Belles hit 22 of 24 free throws, and were efficient in their scoring, not attempting a single three-point shot. 
Junior forward Jessica Centa added 14 points in 
the win, and junior forward Kelley Murphy chipped in 13 
see CENTA/page 18 
FENCING 

DeSmet and Hurley earn medals at tourney 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
The Lone-Star State was kind to the Irish over break, as the fencing squad traveled south to post their own Texas-sized accomplishment. Junior Courtney Hurley and freshman Ariel DeSmet both earned medals at the tournament. In total, 21 Irish fencers compet­ed in the Dallas North American Cup with 10 of the fencers notching top 20 finish­es. 
Courtney Hurley faced a for­midable opponent in the finals of the Division 1 women’s epee competition — her older sister and former Irish fencer Kelley Hurley. Courtney fell to Kelley in the match 15-11, earning second place for the tourna­ment. 
Freshman Ariel DeSmet impressed coaches with his third place finish in the men’s Division 1 foil competition. 
“Ariel was great all week­end,” assistant coach Ian Farr said. “All the coaches were very happy to see that result from him.” 
Two other Irish fencers reached the medal round in Dallas. Senior Barron Nydam finished 7th in the saber event while Junior Enzo Castellani earned an eighth place finish in the foil. 
Farr said that except for a few challenging matchups, two Irish fencers may have advanced further at Dallas. Junior foilist Reggie Bentley (18th) and senior saber Avery Zuck (11th) fell victim to diffi­cult draws. 
“Reggie was matched against someone who finished 5th in world championships, so if he doesn’t fence him he probably gets in,” Farr said. “Avery also had a tough draw against a fencer on the United States national team.” 
see MATCHUPS/page 14 
HOCKEY 

Irish atop CCHA standings 
Eighth-ranked Notre Dame leads Michigan by a single point 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 

With only 10 conference matchups remaining, No. 8 Notre Dame finds itself atop the CCHA, clear of No. 6 Michigan by a single point. With an upcoming road trip to Ohio State and a crucial two-game series with No. 12 Miami (Ohio) looming after that, the Irish (15-8-3/12-5-1­1 CCHA) are locked in the heat of a tight homestretch battle for the league crown. 
“You can’t have a weekend where you just don’t get points,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “You have to try to survive the road week­ends.” 
Notre Dame also hosts Bowling Green and travels to Ferris State before closing the season with a home-and­home series against No. 17 Western Michigan. Jackson has been impressed by how tight each of the league games have been. 

Below is a look at the three selves just one point shy of teams chasing the Irish in the the CCHA lead but face a CCHA race. Notre Dame cur-daunting schedule that will rently has 38 points. force them to fight to keep 
No. 6 Michigan (15-6-4/12-pace with the Irish. Notably, 4-1-0 CCHA), 37 points. 
The Wolverines find them-see CCHA/page 14 




