
Notre Dame embraces social media use 
USA Today ranks University No. 1 in social media realm 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame now knows how to speak “hashtag.” 
Todd Woodward, associate vice president for marketing com­munications, said Notre Dame’s voice is now making noise in the realm of social media. 
“Social media has allowed us to be able to connect directly with the world,” Woodward said. 
Outlets like Twitter and Face­book help people learn Notre Dame is more than college foot­ball, Woodward said. 
“It’s about people looking at us and understanding us different­ly, more than just a conservative, Catholic, Midwest university, but [one that is] doing incredible work with incredible students,” he said. 
In June, Notre Dame ranked No. 1 on a list of 20 colleges in USA Today for its innovative use of social media. The report, compiled for the magazine by BestCollegesOnline, recognized Notre Dame at the top of col­leges that are “influencers and brainstormers” through strategic use of Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. 


see MEDIA/page 4 


MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 



Students use Twitter, Facebook to connect with current events 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
When the U.S. women’s na­tional soccer team faced Bra­zil in the World Cup semifinals this summer, freshman Paul Anthony was stuck on the high­way during a road trip. 
However, thanks to the help of social media, Anthony did not miss an update. 
“Instead of even follow­ing ESPN on my phone, I got on Twitter,” Anthony said. “Whenever someone scored, there would be tweets with ‘GOOOAAAALLLLLLL!!!’” 
Anthony is one of many col­lege students who rely on social media to stay updated on cur­rent events. 
“I get news from Facebook and Twitter all the time, espe­cially because of the trending topics,” Anthony said. “I don’t check news sites daily.” 
Even though he does not have profiles on other networking sites like Google+ or LinkedIn, Anthony said he can still be distracted by his Facebook and Twitter pages. 
“[Facebook] is up right now,” he said, gesturing to his lap-
see STUDENTS/page 5 


Dillon Hall Pep Rally set for Friday 
Stadium head usher 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
Continuing a tradition dating back to the 1970s, the Dillon Hall Pep Rally will take place Friday night to kick off this year’s football season. 
“Our pep rally is almost en­tirely student designed, in­cluding the script made solely by our freshmen [Dillon resi­dents],” Dillon Hall President Andy Boes said. “All acts and logistics behind the scenes are handled by students with some help from the Athletic Depart­ment.” 
Director of Game Day Opera­tions Mike Seamon, who will oversee the rally, said he has high hopes for the activities surrounding the six true home football game weekends this fall. 
“There is so much more to a weekend than simply the game,” Seamon said. “It’s a core piece, but it’s certainly not the only event.” 


Seamon labeled the Dillon Pep Rally is the first opportu-Pep Rally as the most important nity for all students to come pep rally of the season. together for the first time,” 
“Outside of the Opening Mass Seamon said. “Everyone from of the academic year, the Dillon 

see RALLY/page 4 


retires after 15 years 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
After 15 years of supervis­ing students in Notre Dame Stadium and ensuring game days ran smoothly, Crowd Control Program Manager and “head usher” Russell “Cappy” Gagnon retired at the begin­ning of August. 
Gagnon, a 1966 Notre Dame graduate, began his job at the University after working as a security supervisor with Gavin de Becker in Los Ange­les. 
“In the 80s I protected ce­lebrities with the best in the business,” Gagnon said. “I worked the security for Cher’s 1990 world tour and Neil Di­amond’s California tour in 1984.” 
Gagnon said his experience working in security prepared him for his job as the coordi­nator of stadium personnel. 
“I’ve been in charge of secu­rity arrangements for some of the largest stadiums and are­nas in the world,” he said. 
Because of his career, Ga­gnon witnessed some of Notre Dame’s greatest football mo­ments in the Stadium. His favorite was when Brady Quinn led the Irish comeback against UCLA in 2006. 
While Gagnon enjoyed watching the games, his most rewarding experiences as usher were when he received positive feedback from the community, he said. 
“At work … my happiest mo­ments are when the students, alumni and guests to the 
see CAPPY/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC student works with film stars page 3 u Viewpoint page 10 u Football cheers page 12 u Women’s soccer plays at home page 24 

page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Friday, September 2, 2011 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH CLUB ARE YOU EXCITED TO JOIN? 



TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Caitlin Housley Adam Llorens Bridget Feeney 

Graphics 
Marina Kozak 

Photo 
Sarah O’Connor 


Sports 

Andrew Gastelum Sam Gans Matt Unger 

Scene 

Kevin Noonan 

Viewpoint 
Megan Kozak 
Megan Ross Kasey Coonan Madison Carroll 
freshman junior freshman Holy Cross Hall Holy Cross Hall Regina 
“Habitat for “SMC on “Habitat for Humanity at scooters.” Humanity.” 
SMC.” 

Man tries to smuggle snakes, tortoises past U.S. airport security 
MIAMI — Never mind ants in your pants, what about snakes and tor­toises?
 That’s what authorities at Miami’s international air­port said they found inside the trousers of a passen­ger as he tried to board a flight.
 The U.S. Transportation Security Administration said the man had seven exotic snakes and three tortoises wrapped in nylon bags that had been stuffed into his pants. 
He was discovered as he went through a body scan­ner at one of the airport’s security checkpoints on Thursday and arrested by 
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Ser­vice officials for violating animal trafficking laws. 
Man cuts off own toes

 DENVER — A Colorado logger said that he ampu­tated all the toes on his right foot with a pocket knife to free himself after a seven-ton trailer landed on his foot, trapping him in an isolated forest.
 Jon Hutt, 61, was gath­ering a load of firewood for the upcoming winter months in a remote area August 19. As he was work­ing on his tractor-trailer, the trailer lurched, became detached and landed on his foot.
 “It was like stepping 
Stefanie Schwab 
junior Le Mans 
“Love Your Body!” 

Stephanie Farah 
sophomore Le Mans 
“National Student Speech Language Hearing Association Club.” 
into a bear trap,” he said. Unable to free himself, Hutt hollered for help but after 30 minutes, realized “no one was coming,” and he needed to take drastic ac­tion before shock set in.
 Utilizing the 3-inch blade on his pocket knife, Hutt cut away his boot and saw that his only option was to cut off all five toes to escape.
 Hutt used his shirt as a tourniquet, got in his car and then drove into cell range to call 911. He spent four days recovering in a local hospital before being released with a heavily bandaged right foot. 

Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
London Lamar 
junior Le Mans 
“Political Science Club and Habitat for Humanity” 



IN BRIEF
 The first lecture in the Boardroom InSights Executive Speaker Series is today from 10:40 a.m. to 12 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. The speaker is Donad Bailey, the Executive Vice Presi­dent Emerging Business of Allstate Insurance Com­pany. The lecture is free.
 Free guided tours of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will be offered today from 11 a.m. to 4 
p.m. Tours leave every 15 minutes.
 The film “Meek’s Cut­off” will be shown in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center tonight at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are $3 for students.
 The Saturday Scholar Series will present “Mis­sal Alert: Preparation and Implementation of the New Translation of the Roman Missal” tomorrow from 12 to 1 p.m. at the Snite Museum of Art. Join some of the Notre Dame’s most engaging faculty for a lec­ture and Q&A session. The event is free. 
The Saturday Science Lecture Series is tomor­row in the Jordan Hall of Science from 1 to 2 p.m. Come listen to Keith Davis, director of the Digital Visualization of Theater, discuss “From the Globe to the Galaxies.” 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

GAMEDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 


CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 









Friday, September 2, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


SMC student works for celebs 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
Instead of vacationing or catching up on sleep this summer, Saint Mary’s senior Kate Hennessy spent time su­pervising Hollywood stars on the movie sets for “The Perks of Being a Wallflower” and “The Dark Knight Rises.” 
“I run base camp for the actors,” Hennessy said. “I’m solely responsible for mak­ing sure the actors are ready when the director asks for them in front of the camera. I have to tell them what to do, and when to do it. I get them through hair, makeup and wardrobe.” 
Hennessy started working in the film industry when she was in high school. She served as the production assistant for a Mischa Barton film in Pittsburgh, her hometown. 
No matter what the film is, Hennessy said she is very ded­icated to doing her job well. 
“[On set], I worked really hard,” Hennessy said. “There was a time I was told to stay inside and keep warm while they dumped bags of salt on our set to clear the ice. I said, ‘No way!’ and ran outside to help them prepare the set.” 
Hennessy said she was con­tinually called back for more movies, including films that would conflict with the school calendar. 
“Last year, I had to leave school three-and-a-half weeks early so I could work on ‘The Perks of Being a Wallflower.’ I had to work my butt off so I could finish that early . I was in the library nonstop,” Hen­nessy said. 
The teachers at Saint Mary’s were very accommo­dating and understanding of her schedule, Hennessy said, and her experiences helped her develop a passion for learning outside of the classroom. 
“I went back to work as a production assistant every summer after [my first mov­ie]. I had a chance to work on some amazing stuff,” Hennessy said. 
Hennessy has worked with Academy Award winning di­rectors and crews on 13 fea­ture films, including “The Dark Knight Rises,” “The Perks of Being a Wallflower,” “Homecoming,” “My Bloody Valentine,” “Warrior,” “I Am Number 4” and “Abduction.” 
As part of her job respon­sibilities, Hennessy has supervised famous actors including Christian Bale, Anne Hathaway, Tom Hardy, Paul Rudd, Emma Watson, Kate Walsh, Joan Cusack, Katherine Heigl and Taylor Lautner. 
“I consider most of the ac­tors my friends,” Hennessy said. “We are all friends on Facebook and we are always texting and emailing one another,” Hennessy said.

 Hennessy said in addition to the friends she made, she also became part of a film family. 
“Chris Nolan, director of the ‘Batman’ trilogy, has a tendency to hire the same people for every film, so it [was] like one big family,” she said. 
However, Hennessy said the job isn’t always as glam­orous as it seems. 
“We work anywhere from 85 to 90 hours a week, meaning there’s absolute­ly no down time outside of work,” Hennessy said. “It’s great, though. This way I’m never bored.” 
Despite the stress, Hen­nessy said she deeply appre­ciates the opportunities she has been given. 
“I love what I do and I take in every single moment and appreciate it. I am a very lucky person to get to do what I do,” she said. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 



More professors use iPad, Android tools 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
This semester, more Notre Dame classes will benefit from using the DeBartolo Hall tech­nology room and the Universi­ty-provided iPads and Android tablets. 
“We’re trying to give the fac­ulty members and the students in the class more options,” Brian Burchett, manager of the Tech­nology En­hanced Learn­ing Spaces, said. “Effective painted with white board paint. 
Burchett said this set-up al­lows students to be more active in their learning. 
“Students master the material best when they engage in activi­ties that help them construct the knowledge on their own instead of simply being a receptacle,” he said. 
Assistant Teaching Professor Tadeusz Mazurek, who teach­es intermediate Greek in the technology room, said the space’s most desirable fea-



learning often ture is the 
“This sort of technology 
takes place multiple moni­
will facilitate engagement 
when multiple tors that wire-
with the text itself.” 
modes of in-lessly connect struction are to personal used.” Jesse Lander computers. Classes us-professor “The abil­
ing the iPad range from an information design course to a Shakespeare survey, and the Android tablets are being used in a project management course. 
In associate professor Jesse Lander’s Shakespeare course, students will try a Shakespeare 
iPad app for the first time. English pro­fessor Elliott 
Visconsi  is  
currently  de­ 
veloping  the  

app, Lander said. 
The app will include the text of “The Tempest” with links to other sources throughout the work that will 
help clarify the reading. It will also include audio from a perfor­mance of the play, note-taking functions and social media com­munication, Lander said. 
“This sort of technology will facilitate engagement with the text itself,” he said. 
Beginning Italian, business ethics, a political science gradu­ate seminar and intermediate Ancient Greek will also experi­ence a technology upgrade in the DeBartolo Hall technology room. 
In its third semester of use, the DeBartolo technology room has multiple TV monitors located on the walls and in the center of the room. Small groups can use each as a personal computer, Burchett said, and the walls are ity to have the students pur­sue individual research proj­
ects at their own computer mon­itor and then report that back to the whole class effectively is the best feature,” he said. 
Mazurek said the technology available in his class will make ancient texts more accessible to 
his students. “My goal is 
to try to have 

“The ability to have 
small groups 

the students pursue 
working on

individual research 
different mini projects at their own research proj­computer monitor and ects during then report that back to class to better the whole class effectively understand the texts 
is the best feature.” 
we’re read­ing and to use 

Tadeusz Mazurek 
searchable 

professor 
databases, 


to use online 
lexica and to use other websites online to learn the material better,” he said. 
Technology in the classroom will not only facilitate learn­ing, but also allow students to directly contribute to digitizing historical texts. 
Mazurek said the class will also use the room to take part in Oxyrhynchus Papyri, an on-line effort to digitize ancient papyrus fragments discovered in Egypt. 
“Students can have a direct impact into the constant ongo­ing project of digitizing the an­cient literature,” he said. 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, September 2, 2011 

Media 
continued from page 1 
Tube. 
The USA Today article stated Notre Dame “greatly encour­ages the use of social media.” The magazine also ranked the University in its top spot for rec­ognizing social media as “im­portant to professional develop­ment.” 
In recent years, different de­partments at the University de­veloped social media as a way to connect with the Notre Dame family around the world. 
“My hope is that it would ex­tend teaching beyond the class­room,” Woodward said. “Learn­ing is a 24-hour process and the more engaged the student is, the more they are going to learn … I think as we get more comfort­able with social media, our en­gagement in the world will be greater.” 
All social media at Notre Dame, however, must follow cer­tain guidelines laid out by the University. 
“I think we were named No. 1 mostly because we put some governance in place how to use social media,” Woodward said. “I think we’re ahead of most schools.” 
Unlike most universities, Woodward said Notre Dame de­veloped a mission statement for its use of social media. 
“As an innovative university, we recognize the importance of open exchange and learn­ing between the University of Notre Dame and its many con­stituents,” the mission state­ment reads. “We recognize the phenomenon of user-generated Web content — blogging, social website and networking — as an important arena for interaction and collaboration.” 
The entire statement can be found on the Office of Public Re­lations website. 
The proliferation of faculty blogging and University Face­book pages also contributed to the high ranking on the USA To­day list, Woodward said. 
“We use it first to listen, be­cause we want to hear what peo­ple are saying about the Uni-seen,” Cohorst said. 
The college’s tweets vary from day to day. 
“Sometimes [they are] stories we write, sometimes it is things I pick up in media, sometimes it’s links to little things our alumni and students are doing,” she said. 
Like Woodward, Cohorst said conversation is an important aspect of social media. She said developing more of an online lib­eral arts discussion is one of her goals for the future. 
Other colleges and academic departments manage Twitter and Facebook accounts as well. The College of Science, for ex­ample, tweets regularly under @ NDscience. 
Woodward said the marching band even uses Facebook and Twitter, and posts video clips on YouTube, responding to the large public demand to watch the “old­est university marching band” outside of the football stadium. 
Sam Sanchez, assistant direc­tor for the Notre Dame marching band, said the band tweets and posts messages on Facebook to keep fans up-to-date on perfor­mances and events. 
Sanchez said the bands ini­tially posted shorter clips on YouTube, as opposed to entire halftime shows. But the videos received so many hits, Sanchez said he can now post videos up to 30 minutes long. 
“Social media outlets have al­lowed the ND Band to give our followers a window into events that they cannot always attend,” he said. “So far, the interac­tion has been very positive and our fans seem very appreciative when a tweet or post shows up in their news feed.” 
Sam Sanchez, assistant direc­tor for the Notre Dame marching band, said the band tweets and posts messages on Facebook to keep fans up-to-date on perfor­mances and events. 
Sanchez said the bands ini­tially posted shorter clips on YouTube, as opposed to entire halftime shows. But the videos received so many hits, Sanchez said he can now post videos up to 30 minutes long. 
“Social media outlets have al­lowed the ND Band to give our followers a window into events that they can­not always at­

versity,” Wood-“We use Twitter as a way tend,” he said. ward said. “In to inform our fans, and “So far, the the past you’d interaction 
we use Facebook as a 
have news and has been very 
way to engage them.” 
radio. Now we positive and have blogs, our fans seem 
Brian Hardin 
Tumblr … it very apprecia­can be a ca-director tive when a cophony of in-Football Media Relations tweet or post 
formation, but we try to sort through it so we can understand what people are saying about the University.” 
Faculty created 110 official blogs over the last two years to discuss their work at Notre Dame, Woodward said. 
Readers and followers want to hear a voice both opinionated and personal when following Notre Dame online, Woodward said, and the University’s faculty and staff are still developing that identity. 
“I don’t think we’ve perfected that yet,” Woodward said. “[But] the more people know about us, the more opinions we can change. To me, from the mar­keting standpoint, we’ll be able to tell our story better in the fu­ture.” 
Kate Cohorst, senior writer and editor for the College of Arts and Letters communications, agreed social media spreads Notre Dame’s image beyond campus. Cohorst manages the @ ArtsLettersND Twitter feed. 
“You just never know where your tweets are going to be shows up in 
their news 
feed.” 
The athletic department also started a brand new digital media division this summer. It maintains Facebook and Twitter accounts for sports teams and sends text message alerts to fans who choose to stay updated. 
Director of Football Media Re­lations Brian Hardin said Face­book and Twitter each play very specific roles in the program. 
“We use Twitter as a way to in­form our fans, and we use Face­book as a way to engage them,” he said. “Twitter is built for re­ally brief updates, while Face­book you can reach out and have a longer dialogue with fans out there.” 
He said social media gives fans the opportunity to more intimately connect with the pro­gram. 
“Social media is not going away,” Hardin said. “It’s impor­tant to get involved and engaged with it.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens2@nd.edu 



Rally 
continued from page 1 
freshmen to seniors comes to celebrate themselves and Notre seniors comes to cel­ebrate themselves and Notre Dame football.” 
Dillon resident and pep rally architect Peter Kundert said participants can expect an entertaining show this year. 
“Students can expect a kicking newscast with a heavy emphasis on Hanson’s ‘MMMBop,’” Kundert said. 
Seamon recognized the importance pep rallies have for the weekend experience. 
“The pep rallies are the center of the celebration,” he said. “By bringing together students, faculty, alumni and visitors, they touch every as­pect of the Notre Dame fam-Notre Dame baseball and is currently working on a book about Notre Dame’s greatest athletes. 
Jim Smith will take over for Gagnon as the coordinator of stadium personnel. Gagnon trained, promoted and highly recommended Smith for the job. 
“When he worked for me, he was my go-to guy,” Ga­gnon said. “He should just keep on doing what he’s been doing. He’s done a great job.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


Cappy 
continued from page 1 

stadium complimented the ushers on something we did well,” he said.
 Gagnon said he loved the work and the people he worked with, but he would not miss the 70 or 80-hour weeks leading up to foot­ball games or other large on-campus events, like com­mencement. Instead, he said he is looking forward to be­ily and allow our family to come together to celebrate not only the football team, but more im­portantly our University.” 
Some features of pep rallies 
from the 2010 season will continue this 

“The biggest thing you 
year, including 

can expect from this 
the parade of 

year’s pep rallies is 
students down 

community involvement.” 
Notre Dame Avenue. 

“Like last Mike George year, we are leprechaun ensuring that the students son can unite the Notre Dame fam­ily so we can work together to support both our team and Notre Dame.” 
Mike George, the Leprechaun 
are front and center at the stage with various giveaways like thunder sticks that were distributed at pep rallies last year,” Seamon said. “At every rally, the two entities that will be front and center will be the team and the students.” 
Student body president Pat­rick McCormick also said the pep rally is an important way to kick off game day. 
ing a fan again. 

“I’ll be excited to get to do all the things you students get to do on game day,” Ga­gnon said. “I was waking up at 4 a.m., getting to the sta­dium when it opened at 6 
a.m. and then leaving about an hour-and-a-half after the game ended. I missed out on a lot of things outside the sta­dium.” 
Now that Gagnon is enter­ing retirement, he is looking forward to focusing more on his hobbies, like writing. Gagnon has already writ­ten a book on the history of 
“This is the first chance dur­ing the academic year where the Notre Dame spirit is in full force,” McCormick said. “I hope the pep rallies this football sea-
for the 2011 football season, said he is ready to keep the en­thusiasm surrounding the up­coming season going. 
“The biggest thing you can expect from this year’s pep ral­lies is community involvement,” George said. “This is what makes the rallies memorable.” 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 



Friday, September 2, 2011 


Students 
continued from page 1 
top screen. “I would have it up on my computer whenever I’m working. I’m not necessarily being active on it all the time, but it’s there … It’s addict­ing.” 
Freshman 

“I think we’re all used 
Maggie Law-

to being able to find 
rence also 

out about other people 
said she moni­

on Facebook.” 
tors social networking sites daily. Maggie Lawrence 
“When [for­

freshman 
mer Apple CEO] Steve Jobs retired, I saw it on Face-that are happening because of that.” 
College students are not the only demographic using social media. Economic professor Eric Sims started his Twitter, @ ndeconprof, two years ago as a joke. Now, he tweets regularly about the latest news in eco­nomics and his thoughts on the 
Irish football team. 
“I think it’s a really good way to keep track of news,” Sims said. “When we felt an earthquake on the sev­enth floor [of Flanner Hall], it was on Twitter im-
The Observer u NEWS 
use Twitter to add to their participation grades in the class. 
Junior Louis Medina said Streit encourages students to share news articles and questions with him via Twit­ter. 
“We’ll tweet at him what­ever we find, get some par­ticipation in and he’ll usu­ally retweet for the entire class . his followers . to see,” Medina said. “Since most of us are usually wasting time on Twitter anyway, it actu­ally proves really conve­nient to be able to tweet in some class participation and learning.” 
Medina said he stays in­formed of campus, national and international news by following Twitter feeds and Facebook posts. 
“I definitely use my so­cial media sites as a news source,” he said. “I really don’t watch that much tele­vision … so I’ll often learn of new occurrences through someone’s status updates or hashtags.” 
Social media sites stream­line multiple sources of in­formation in an efficient package, Medina said. 
“Why have to turn on the television for some enter­tainment, go get the news­paper for current events or pick up the phone to make a phone call when you can get all of that through one sim­ple visit to Facebook or Twit­ter?” Medina said. “I think it really just comes down to convenience, and in a time where we, as students, are probably the most stressed and busy we’ve ever been, social networking sites are just nice and easy to man­age in a world full of infor­mation.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle1@nd.edu 
ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 




Judge declares mistrial in teen shooting case 


book like two minutes after it happened,” Lawrence said. 
Lawrence joined the “Uni­versity of Notre Dame Class of 2015” page before she got to campus this fall. She said she also joined a page sponsored mediately. It’s also a good way to meet people and a good way to keep track of people that you don’t hear from all the time.” 
Sims said he tries to post in­teresting or relevant articles about his subject matter on 
by her dorm, McGlinn Hall, which was helpful as she got ready for college. 
As she pre­pared to head to school, Lawrence said she connect­ed with two of her three roommates via Facebook before the 

“I definitely use my social media sites as a news source. I really don’t want that much television ... so I’ll often learn of new occurences through someone’s status updates or hashtags.” 
Louis Medina junior 
Twitter for the students who follow his feed. 
“I believe one of our roles as fac­ulty at Notre Dame is to get to know our students and to be a men­tor to them,” Sims said. “The more I can appear 
girls even arrived on campus. The last member of her quad, however, still does not have a Facebook page. 
“I think we’re all used to be­ing able to find out about other people on Facebook,” Lawrence said. “I feel like sometimes people who don’t have [Face­book] don’t know about things approachable because I’m us­ing social media, I think that’s important. It’s important to be on the same level as your stu­dents.” 
Fr. Tom Streit is another professor who uses Twitter in the classroom. His students in Common Human Diseases, a topical science course, can 

Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — A judge on Thursday declared a mistrial in the case of California teen who shot a gay classmate in the back of the head during a computer lab class as stunned classmates looked on. 
Jurors were unable to reach a unanimous decision on the degree of Brandon McIner­ney’s guilt for killing 15-year­old Larry King. The nine-wom­an, three-man panel said they took a series of votes — the last one with seven in favor of vol­untary manslaughter and five jurors supporting either first-degree or second-degree mur­der. 
Prosecutors now have to de­cide whether to re-file murder and hate crime charges against McInerney, now 17, who was tried as an adult. They had of­fered a plea deal of 25 years to life if he pleaded guilty, but his lawyers passed. A first-degree murder conviction carried a maximum sentenced of more than 50 years in prison. 
King’s family rushed out of the courtroom after the judge declared a mistrial. They looked horrified and confused and declined comment as sher­iff’s deputies escorted them to an elevator. 
McInerney’s friends said prosecutors tried to sensation­alize the case by calling it a hate crime by a budding white supremacist. 
“This should have never gone to trial,” family friend Craig Adams said outside of court. “The fact they pushed him to try him as an adult was the real crime.” 
One juror, who identified himself only as juror no. 10, told The Associated Press that several members of the panel thought McInerney should nev­er have been tried as an adult. 
“I don’t think so,” the juror said, when asked if the district attorney should have pursued an adult prosecution. “He was 
14. Just trying to get in the head of a 14 year old (is hard.)” 
Ventura County prosecu­tor Maeve Fox contended Mc-Inerney, then 14, embraced a white supremacist philosophy that sees homosexuality as an abomination. Police found Na-zi-inspired drawings and arti­facts at his house, and a white supremacist expert testified the hate-filled ideology was the reason for the killing. 
Fox also argued the attack was premeditated, noting at least six people heard McIn­erney make threats against King in the days leading to the shooting. 
She said McInerney told a psychologist hired by defense lawyers that he wanted to kill King after he passed McIner­ney in a school hallway and said, “What’s up, baby?” 
“He’s basically confessed to first-degree murder in this case,” Fox said during her closing argument. 
Defense attorneys acknowl­edged McInerney was the shooter but explained that he had reached an emotion­al breaking point after King made repeated, unwanted sexual advances. McInerney snapped when he heard mo­ments before the shooting that King wanted to change his name to Latisha, the lawyers said. 
The defense psychologist said he was in a dissociative state — acting without think­ing — when he pulled the trig­ger at E.O. Green Junior High School in Oxnard, a city about 60 miles northwest of Los An­geles. 
McInerney’s lawyers also said he suffered physical abuse at home from his father, who has since died, and didn’t receive the proper supervision that would have kept him out of trouble. They said the Nazi imagery was part of a school project on tolerance. 
“He is guilty and he should be held responsible, but he is not a murderer. He is not a white supremacist,” defense attorney Scott Wippert said during his closing argument. “He is a 14-year-old child who didn’t know what to do and had no one to guide him.” 
Outside court, Wippert said jurors had told him they weren’t convinced by prosecu­tors’ assertions the killing was a hate crime. 
“We are quite confident that none of the jurors believed this was a hate crime,” he said. “This was a difficult decision for all of them.” 
McInerney did not take the stand during the nine-week trial. To find McInerney guilty of voluntary manslaughter, ju­rors had to find him not guilty of first- and second-degree murder. They began deliberat­ing last Friday. 
The school administration has been accused of being more concerned about defend­ing King’s civil rights than rec­ognizing that his behavior and what he wore — high heels, makeup and feminine cloth­ing — made other students un­comfortable. 



Friday, September 2, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 


Mansion hanging deemed suicide 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO — Investiga­tors have ruled that a woman who was found hanging na­ked from a second-floor bal­cony at a historic California mansion with her wrists and ankles bound committed sui­cide, the woman’s sister said Thursday. 
Mary Zahau-Loehner said she found investigators un­convincing during a visit to her home Wednesday in St. Joseph, Mo., to break the news. 
“It doesn’t add up,” she told The Associated Press. “Noth­ing adds up.” 
San Diego County Sheriff’s Department spokeswoman Jan Caldwell declined to comment. Sheriff Bill Gore planned a news conference Friday to discuss investiga­tors’ findings. 
Rebecca Zahau, 32, was found dead July 13 at the mansion in suburban Corona­do, two days after a 6-year­old boy under her care was seriously injured in a fall down the stairs. Max Shack­nai later died. 
Both were linked to Jonah Shacknai, an Arizona phar­maceuticals magnate who owns the 27-room waterfront mansion. Zahau was his girl­friend of two years. Max was his son from a marriage that ended in divorce in 2008. 
Zahau-Loehner said inves­tigators told her they found no suicide note. They did share text messages on her phone from months earlier 
about  “issues”  between  her  
and Shacknai’s children.  
Zahau-Loehner  said  she  
spoke  with  her  sister  the  

night before her body was 
found and she gave no hint that she planned to take her life. She said she planned to bring Jonah Shacknai break­fast and a change of clothes the next morning to the hos­pital where his son was being treated. 
Zahau also told her sis­ter that she would call her parents in the morning on the way to the hospital. She emailed another sister in Germany to say she would be updating throughout the next day. 
“Too detailed planning for someone who’s planning to end their life that night,” Za­hau-Loehner said. 
When Max fell down the stairs, Zahau was at home with a 13-year-old girl who was related to her, authori­ties say. He was hospitalized after paramedics found the boy wasn’t breathing and did not have a pulse. 
Two days later, Shacknai’s brother, Adam, called 911 to report that Zahau appeared to be dead, investigators said. The brother was staying in a mansion guesthouse. Jonah Shacknai was not at home. 
Investigators will also an­nounce their findings on the boy’s death Friday. They ini­tially said they believed the fall was an accident. 
The home, known as the Spreckels mansion, is one of the more storied properties in Coronado, a small suburb of multimillion-dollar homes on the tip of a peninsula across a bay from downtown San Diego. The home has un­obstructed beach views and sits near Coronado’s main street, which is lined with palm trees and upscale bou­tiques. 

Shacknai bought the man­sion in March 2007, when it was assessed at $12.75 mil­lion. The home was built in 1908 and named for its origi­nal owner, John D. Spreckels, who also owned the news­papers, the San Diego Union and San Diego Tribune. 
Shacknai founded Medi­cis Pharmaceuticals Corp. and has been chairman and chief executive of the Scott­sdale, Ariz.-based company since 1988. In a divorce fil­ing, he filed a tax return that showed his income in 1998 at $17 million. 
Medicis makes acne treat­ments Solodyn and Ziana and facial wrinkle treatment Re­stylane and Dysport, a com­petitor of Botox. Last year, the company earned $123 million on $700 million in revenue. 
Shacknai has two children with his first wife, Kimberly. Max was his only child with his second wife, Dina. 
He told Medicis investors on a conference call Aug. 8 that he was planning to re­sume his daily routine of showing up at the office as soon as school resumed for his children in Arizona. 
“We’ve obviously had an ex­traordinarily difficult time. We have undertaken some tragedies, some losses that one couldn’t imagine experi­encing in a lifetime,” he said. 
Zahau, a native of Myan­mar, was an ophthalmic technician at Horizon Eye Specialists & Lasik Center in the Phoenix area from April 2008 to December 2010. 
Zahau-Loehner urged in­vestigators keep the investi­gation open and said the fam­ily has hired an attorney. 


Hurricane Irene victims wait for power to return 


Associated Press 
WARWICK, R.I. — Cold showers. Meals in the dark. Refrigerators full of spoiled food. No TV. No Internet. Up and down the East Coast, pa­tience is wearing thin among the hundreds of thousands of people still waiting for the electricity to come back on af­ter Hurricane Irene knocked out the power last weekend. 
“It’s like ‘Little House on the Prairie’ times,” said Deb­bie McWeeney, who went to a Red Cross shelter in Warwick to pick up food and water after everything in her refrigerator went bad. “Except I’m not en­joying it at all.” 
With the waters reced­ing across much of the flood-stricken region, homeowners are mucking out their base­ments and dragging soggy furniture to the curb. But the wait for power drags on, with an estimated 895,000 homes and businesses still without electricity, down from a peak of 9.6 million. 
And criticism of the util­ity companies is mounting. In Rhode Island, a state senator is calling for an investigation, and Massachusetts’ attorney general is demanding infor­mation from utilities on how they are dealing with the cri­sis, including how many crews are in the field and their re­sponse time. 
The industry has defended its efforts, noting it warned the public that a storm like Irene was bound to cause pro­longed outages and pointing out that flooding and toppled trees caused severe damage to utility poles, substations and other equipment. 
Tim Horan, National Grid president for Rhode Island, said crews from as far as Kan­sas and Idaho are working 16­hour shifts, and “we’re com­mitted to getting this resolved as soon as possible.” 
In the meantime, people are taking cold showers or wash­ing up at shelters, using camp stoves and grills to cook, com­peting for ice at the grocery store and relying on genera­tors and hand-cranked radios. The late-summer weather, at least, has been mercifully cool across much of the East Coast. 
Many homes that depend on wells have no water because they have no electricity to pump it. Relief agencies have been handing out drinking water. And a high school in Exeter, R.I., opened its gym to let people shower. 
In some places, people on oxygen or other medical de­vices that require electricity have been taken to shelters that have power. 
Irene has been blamed for at least 46 deaths in 13 states. With the streets drying out in hard-hit New Jersey, some towns faced new problems, namely trash bins overflowing with waterlogged debris. In Vermont, with roads slowly re­opening, the National Guard’s airlift of food, water and other supplies to once cutoff towns was winding down. 
But Vermont faced new dan­ger Thursday evening: A flash flood warning was issued for the Rutland area after 2 to 5 inches of rain fell. Two high­way workers repairing a dam­aged bridge were stranded on a sandbar in a river after flash flooding hit in the town of Clarendon, and they were rescued by helicopters. 
The White House declared a major disaster in Vermont, clearing the way for federal aid for repairs. The decla­ration, signed by President Barack Obama, makes indi­vidual assistance available for homeowners in Chitten­den, Rutland, Washington and Windsor counties and public assistance available for infra­structure in 13 of the state’s 14 counties, excluding Grand Isle. 
Without power, the Tirado family’s septic pump stopped working at their home in Lake Ariel, Pa., in the Pocono Moun­tains, sending sewage through their shower drain and into their finished basement, where the filth was an inch deep. Carpeting, drywall, fur­niture, a computer, two video game systems, new school clothes for the children — all destroyed. 
“You should never, ever smell what we smelled,” Shari Tirado said. 
In Maryland, 1.1 million utility customers lost power. 
Julie Marlowe of Towson, Md., has heard enough empty promises from her utility com­pany, Baltimore Gas & Elec­tric, since the lights went out on Saturday night. 
“Don’t tell me that it will be restored by a certain time and then let that time go by. Tell me a later date and get it back on earlier and I’ll be impressed,” she said. 


page 8 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, September 2, 2011 


Boat carrying marijuana crashes on Calif. beach 
Associated Press 
VENTURA, Calif. — Danger­ously high waves likely caused a smuggling boat to crash on a Southern California beach where more than 500 pounds of marijuana washed ashore, au­thorities said Thursday. 
California State Parks rangers found the abandoned boat split in half on rocks near Point Mugu northwest of Malibu, said Lind­sey Templeton, a superintendent for the park system said. About 240 gallons of fuel and marijua­na packaged in burlap bags were discovered. 
High tide, waves reaching 6 to 9 feet and “probably a lot of mis­judgment by the cartel operating the boat” led to the crash, Tem­pleton said. 
“Obviously they didn’t check the surf or they risked it any­way,” he said. 
Authorities warned swimmers and surfers to be careful be­cause of high waves and strong rip currents that hit Central and Southern California through the day. Waves of up to a dozen feet were seen from San Luis Obispo to San Diego counties, the Na­tional Weather Service said. 
Lifeguards conducted dozens of rescues. High surf also caused some damage the Ocean Beach and San Clemente piers, the weather service said. 
The Coast Guard suspended its search for a missing body-board­er after a fruitless overnight hunt that covered 78 square miles of ocean. Jowayne Binford, 24, of Long Beach, was with three friends when he disappeared Wednesday evening about 200 yards off the Surfside area of Huntington Beach, Coast Guard spokesman Trent Kelly said. 
An air and sea search failed to find any trace of Binford, Kelly said. 
Binford and his friends had gone into the water despite a warning that the lifeguard sta­tion was closing for the night, a witness said. 
The lifeguard “didn’t order them out of the water. He said you need to stay close to the shore for your own safety,” Mike Spainhower told KCAL-TV. 
In the area and around the time that Binford disappeared, there was a rip current caused by a winter storm in New Zea­land that roughened seas along central and Southern California. 
Rip currents are strong chan­nels of water flowing out to sea that quickly exhaust swimmers who struggle against them. Au­thorities recommend that swim­mers caught swim parallel to the shoreline until they are out of the current. 
“We could tell yesterday the waves were getting a lot big­ger and the current was getting strong. The yellow (warning) flags were waving,” said Rhonda Selmanson, who has lived in a seaside home at Sunset Beach for three years. 



Friday, September 2, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 9 


Virginia town prohibits flying Confederate flag 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Va. — Officials in the rural Virginia city where Robert E. Lee and Thomas “Stonewall” Jackson are buried voted late Thursday to prohibit the flying of the Confederate flag on city-owned poles. 
After a lively 2 1/2-hour pub­lic hearing, the Lexington City Council voted 4-1 to allow only U.S., Virginia and city flags to be flown. Personal displays of the Confederate flag are not af­fected. The Sons of Confeder­ate Veterans, whose members showed up in force after lead­ing a rally that turned a down­town park into a sea of Confed­erate flags, vowed to challenge the ordinance in court. 
Some speakers during the meeting said the ordinance was an affront to the men who fought in the Civil War in de­fense of the South. One speaker stayed silent during his allot­ted three minutes, in memory of the Civil War dead. 
But many speakers com­plained that the flag was an of­fensive, divisive symbol of the South’s history of slavery and shouldn’t be endorsed by the city of 7,000 people. 
“The Confederate flag is not something we want to see fly­ing from our public property,” said city resident Marquita Dunn, who is black. “The flag is offensive to us.” 
Most residents who spoke, both blacks and whites, op­posed the ordinance. But H.K. Edgerton, the former president of the NAACP chapter in Ashe­ville, N.C., said he supported flying the Confederate flag be­cause he wanted to honor black Confederate soldiers. Edgerton, who is black, wore a T-shirt emblazoned with images of those black soldiers. 
“What you’re going to do in banning the Southern cross is wrong. May God bless Dixie,” he said, amid some gasps from the audience. 
Before the rally, ordinance opponents rallied in the city park, then marched to the hearing under a parade of Con­federate flags. 
“I am a firm believer in the freedom to express our individ­ual rights, which include flying the flag that we decide to fly,” said Philip Way, a Civil War re­enactor dressed in a Confeder­ate wool uniform despite the summer temperatures. “That’s freedom to me.” 
Mimi Knight, watching from a wrought iron fence as the flags passed, said she thought the city ordinance seemed too restrictive, noting that it also extended to flags from Virginia Military Institute and Wash­ington and Lee University. Both colleges are in the city. 
“These are the things that make Lexington what it is,” said Knight, who didn’t participate in the rally. “The Confederate flag is part of our heritage.” 
The Sons of Confederate Vet­erans organized the “Save our Flags” gathering, which offered free hot dogs and blue grass music. Speakers addressed the crowd amid supportive shouts of “Amen.” A promotional flyer depicted Lee with a tear rolling down his cheek. 
City Manager T. Jon Elles­tad noted that the ordinance only affected city property and wasn’t specifically aimed at the Confederate flag. “They can carry their flags anywhere they want,” he said. 
The city received hundreds of complaints in January, the last time Confederate flags were planted in holders on light poles, to mark Lee-Jack­son Day, a state holiday. People complained “that displaying the Confederate flag is very hurtful to groups of people,” Ellestad said. “In their mind, it stands for the defense of slav­ery.” 
Such complaints convinced city leaders that they should have clear guidelines govern­ing the flying of flags and ban­ners on light poles, Ellestad said. 
But heritage groups like the Sons of Confederate Veterans argued that restrictions on the flying of the Confederate flag in Lexington are especially pain­ful because of the two military leaders’ strong ties here. 
The NAACP launched an eco­nomic boycott of South Carolina in 1999 about the Confederate flag that flew atop the State­house dome and in the cham­bers of the House and Senate. A compromise in 2000 moved the flag to a monument outside the Statehouse. The group’s presi­dent says the flag is a symbol of slavery and segregation. 
Some speakers at Thursday’s hearing said they, too, would boycott the city, which banks heavily on its Confederate his­tory to attract tourists. 
Jackson taught at VMI before the Civil War, where he became widely known as “Stonewall” after the first Battle of Manas­sas. He died in 1863 from wounds suffered at Chancel­lorsville along with pneumo­nia, and is buried in Lexington, according to the website for the Stonewall Jackson House. 
Lee, who led Confederate forces during the Civil War be­fore surrendering at Appomat­tox in 1865, became president of what is now Washington and Lee, where he is buried. 




Holocaust prisoner portraits displayed 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK — He survived the Holocaust carrying the sol­emn portraits he drew of con­centration camp prisoners who labored alongside him in one of the largest counterfeiting op­erations in history. For decades, those portraits have rarely been seen. 
Now the collection of 43 draw­ings by Felix Cytrin of his fellow Jewish prisoners have been do­nated to Yad Vashem, Israel’s Holocaust memorial and mu­seum, where researchers can study them and they will be ex­hibited for public viewing. 
They are among the few im­ages that exist of the young men who worked in an infamous se­cret Nazi operation to produce fake money, fictionalized in the Oscar-winning film “The Coun­terfeiters.” Cytrin’s heirs do­nated them to Yad Vashem at a special ceremony Thursday. 
The works, most dated 1944 and 1945, were drawn on paper in pencil, charcoal and chalk. 
“I think what is amazing when you look at these portraits is how beautiful these young men look,” said Yehudit Shen­dar, the senior art curator for the Jerusalem-based museum, who came to New York City to receive the portraits. 
“Probably Cytrin felt a need to beautify them. Why to beau­tify them? To give them back the individuality that they were robbed of during that time,” she said. 
The works will be integrated into Yad Vashem’s art collec­tion, and some will be exhib­ited in Jerusalem in December, along with other portraits cre­ated by artists imprisoned dur­ing World War II. 
Shendar said they belonged to a genre of portraiture by im­prisoned artists who sought to document the faces of people who were likely doomed. 
The Nazis hand-picked from death camps a group of about 140 mostly skilled craftsmen at the Sachsenhausen concentra­tion camp north of Berlin be­ginning in 1942, and gave them the dubious choice of creating bogus money for the Nazis or al­most certain death. They were isolated away from the rest of the camp in barracks known as Block 19, surrounded by barbed wire. 
Initially, the goal of “Op­eration Bernhard” (named for its lead SS officer, Bernhard Krueger) was to counterfeit millions of British pounds that could be air-dropped on Eng­land to undermine the Allied country’s economy, but the plan did not work out. The bogus money was also used to finance Nazi espionage. 
Lawrence Malkin, the author of “Krueger’s Men: The Secret Nazi Counterfeit Plot and the Prisoners of Block 19,” said in notes for a 2011 speech that at the height of production in 1943 and 1944, the prisoners were churning out 650,000 fake Brit­ish notes a month. That amount­ed to $6 billion or $7 billion in 2011’s money, Malkin wrote. 
Cytrin was born in what is now Warsaw, Poland, in 1894, and his name appears on a list of “Operation Bernhard” in­mates recovered from a lake in Austria, where the Nazis dumped documents about the plot, according to the Interna­tional Tracing Service in Bad Arolsen. 

INSIDE COLUMN 



Gameday beatitudes 
When Touchdown Jesus went up on the mount he found a seat at the front of a giant crowd as his disciples First Down Moses and Fair-Catch Corby pursued him. 
He then conveyed a story of great importance to the Notre Dame faith­ful, adorned in blue and gold and green, eager to heed his wisdom. He began with a few words. 
Blessed are those who drape them­selves in the bluest of hues, for they shall be an unmov­able army by the thousands. 

Blessed are those who travel on mule from afar (or by plane, that’s cool too I guess), for they shall leave more content than when they arrived. 
Blessed are the early risers, for they shall be the first to reach the promised land of empty parking spots. 
Blessed are those who roast beasts and fruits of the earth from their wheeled dwellings, for their labors will feed the souls of hundreds. 
Blessed are those who meet at the base of thy gold-encrusted sparkling citadel in the wee hours, for they shall witness a spectacle of wicked mad beats. 
Blessed are those who fashion a line outside of thou holy figure, arms out­stretched, for they shall receive a warm greeting in the form of a bear paw high-five. 
Blessed are those who sound their horns for the coming of the team, for they will lead the chants of the crowd. 
Blessed are those who pound their drums, for the tremble of the earth shall be felt by their enemies, especially those in blue and maize. 
Blessed is the jolly, diminutive green man, for the pot of gold he possesses shall be shared with all the faithful in straight-up W’s. 
Blessed are those who lose their voices on behalf of the yellow flag that follows, for their defense shall receive thy bequest. 
Blessed are those who shake their keys, for the key to a heavenly third-down stop is thou encouragement. 
Blessed are those who are flung into the air by the denim of thy pants, for their joy (and subsequent fear) shall be everlast­ing. 
Blessed are those who join arms and engage in a hearty jig, for they shall surely fall from the creaky benches of Paradise. 
Blessed are those who fashion their fingers in the form of a K, for their bow of allegiance shall be rewarded with a no-huddle spectacle. 
Blessed are those who welcome the patrons of the enemy, for not everyone can be Irish. 
Blessed are those who mourn for those in crimson and yellow, for they have no perception of tradition, or class. 
Blessed are those who light a candle, for their prayers will one day be answered with a crystal trophy. 
Blessed are those who read The Observ­er, for their thirst for knowledge shall be quenched — until the dining hall workers take from thee thine newspaper. 
But most importantly, blessed are those who carry the memories of a game day forever, for we are all inseparable. We are all ND. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 


Compromising with the police 
By this time last year — only two weeks into the school year — about 70 students had already been arrested for alcohol-related incidents. 
Not cited with a ticket, arrested — which often meant spending the night in jail. 
One party bust resulted in a broken-down door, landed a police officer in the hospital and sent a total of 35 people to jail. 
ing complaints about student parties. 
“If there are no outward signs of underage drinking, public urination, extreme littering, traffic obstructions or disrespect, the dispatched officers will most likely issue a warning to the house instead of immediately issuing cita­tions and/or making arrests,” the email stated. 
But if police receive a second complaint, officers will re­
turn to the scene and check for identification 
Police arrested one student for underage 
cards. The email said students would be ar­drinking when they knocked on his door, in-rested if they are underage with a blood alco­terrupting a night spent home alone with his hol content of .05 or above, or if any student is girlfriend. The officers asked for identifica-extremely intoxicated or disrespectful. tion, breathalyzed him and denied him the Though students would prefer to be able opportunity to put on a pair of shoes before to drink alcohol and avoid legal action, the taking him to jail. agreement McCormick outlined in his email 
These were just two of six stories The Ob­server printed about alcohol-related arrests or incidents in the first two weeks of school last year. 
Heading into the first home football game, tensions were high between the student body and law enforcement, and many students feared this year would bring more of the same. 
But it has not. 

No students have been arrested yet for underage drink­ing, and the only alcohol-related stories The Observer has printed so far have been about the steps taken to avoid a repeat of last year’s clashes. 
The cooperation between the University, police and stu­dent government is encouraging going into the first home football weekend. We applaud the effort made on all sides to find compromise, and we hope the tone set in the first two weeks will continue in the coming months. 
Part of the credit goes to former student body president Catherine Soler and vice president Andrew Bell, who were effective in responding to the increase in arrests last year. Their administration’s efforts to meet with police and Uni­versity officials helped soothe tensions and decrease ar­rests. 
Student body president Patrick McCormick and vice pres­ident Brett Rocheleau have continued the work of the previ­ous administration and have been proactive in coming to an understanding with police. 
In an email sent to the student body Aug. 19, McCormick said police said they will “exercise discretion” in address-
seems completely reasonable. After all, police officers have jobs to do, and a warning gives students time to make smart decisions and avoid unnecessary trouble. 
We hope police will indeed use “discretion” as we enter into football season, and in turn, the student body should use discretion as well. 
Have fun, but don’t disrupt the entire neighborhood. If the police arrive at your party, be respectful and coopera­tive. And most of all, be safe. 
South Bend may not be a major metropolis, but it has its fair share of crime. McCormick’s email said he had already received two reports of crimes against students, and there have been numerous break-ins to cars off campus. 
Police are not just there to get you in trouble. Their cars could actually signal a sense of safety on late weekend nights, rather than induce a panic of fear. They have a job to protect us, too. So let them. 
There may be disagreements between police and students about how to handle underage drinking, but that disagree­ment is as old as this University. Let’s find ways to compro­mise — police don’t have to be the enemy. 
There may not have been any student alcohol-related ar­rests this year, but freshmen, it hasn’t always been this way. Let’s be smart and not take this encouraging start to the school year for granted. 
There may be lingering fears after last year’s spike in arrests, but this year shows no sign of heading down that same path. To everyone involved, let’s make sure it stays that way. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The only way to get rid of a temptation is to yield to it.” 
Oscar Wilde Irish writer and poet 

WEEKLY POLL RESULTS 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Regrettable rope swing removal 
Here at Notre Dame we value study, but also pride ourselves in understanding the limits of that knowledge. At a point the pursuit of simple joys and endeavors are necessary for a fulfilling existence. 
This past weekend, to ease our transition from our effortless summer pastimes to the rigors of academic responsibilities we raised a rope swing in McGlinn fields on a large oak tree. We decorated it with Notre Dame emblems and affixed a sharpie marker to if for people to record their visits on the swing. We hoped that it would become a reminder that life is more than exams and papers.  We also hoped that it would be a way to make the University more accessible to visitors and the commu­nity. 
The day after we put up the swing, we came back and saw that there were several signatures inscribed — one was from a father and son. They recorded the fun time they spent there, and this drove home to us how a community structure, as simple as a rope swing, can connect so many people regardless of age or background. 
On Thursday we returned to the tree to discover its deliberate removal. We con­tacted NDSP and as of Thursday night they have no record of it being in violation of a code and taken down. This has led us to believe that it was taken by a student or faculty member of the University. We implore the responsible party to return the swing to us. 
We took great pride in building this tribute to the more rare and elusive solace that comes from spending a summer evening flying in the shadow of an oak tree. It was a refreshing conclusion to our days as students, athletes, friends and members of this community. 
If you have it or have any information about it please come find us. We are in Welsh Family Hall, on the fourth floor. 
Ingrid Woelfel and Abbey Nichols juniors Welsh Family Hall Sept. 1 

Improving student safety 
Last Wednesday, I attended the  Safety Summit at Irish Green sponsored by student government. It was an enjoyable experience complete with pru­dent partying tips given by friendly representatives of the five major police agencies in the South Bend/Mishawaka area. I applaud the genuine efforts of student body president Patrick McCormick in addressing the problems in the relationship between Notre Dame students and the police. 
While these efforts should be commended, there remains a number of issues that a controlled Q&A session in the most inconvenient location on campus cannot adequately address. Most Notre Dame students have little experience in dealing with police and the court system. This lack of exposure begets an ignorance of the justice system which poses a real threat to stu­dent safety. Who really knows what receiving a Minor in Consumption ticket means? What’s the penalty? Will this follow me for the rest of my life? What if I was arrested and subjected to abuse? Who can I report to? There are so many facets and intricacies involved in even the most basic cases that it can overwhelm students who, other than a particular instance, have been model citizens. 
Until the University seriously gets involved in addressing student-police relations, we will continue to see the same issues in student-police relations. Being safe off-campus should be an idea ingrained into every student at the start of Frosh-O and continue all four years. The University’s laissez-faire approach to student safety off campus has left generations of off-campus students ill-equipped to deal with the community. I would like to see the University employ resources toward educating students about Indiana alco­hol statues, relevant case law in regards to home entry by police and legal courses of action a student can take should he or she violate a statue. In addi­tion, I would like to see an avenue where students can voice their complaints about possible police abuse, or if such an avenue exists, make it more widely known about the general student population. Notre Dame has enacted sweep­ing positive changes in the University’s sexual assault policy. I believe similar progress could be made in improving student safety off campus. 
Peter Elliott senior Siegfried Hall Sept. 1 
UWIRE 



The White House on holiday 
Most Americans, especially the Obama admin­istration, hoped that summer 2010 would be the summer of recovery. It turned out to be the sum­mer of discovery as Americans discovered that the increasingly larger numbers on the national debt clock would actually have to decrease. The result: Derek J. Bekebrede the November 2010 elections, during Harvard Crimson which the Tea Party saved the Republican Party and walloped the Democrats. This sum­mer could be characterized as the summer of dysfunction. Washington gridlocked, and there were more fireworks than the Fourth of July. The result: a debt downgrade by a firm infamous for being too generous with its financial rankings. However, like anyone who has suffered through a traffic jam understands, gridlock only requires one bad driver. In summer 2011, the Obama White House failed majestically to acknowledge or address the greatest obstacle to America’s future success. 
To be fair, both Democrats and Republicans have contributed to the national debt. The an­nual deficits under the Bush administration may have been merely a tenth of the size of the deficits under the Obama administration, but Obama is correct in mentioning that he inherited a large national debt and came into office during a period of economic turmoil. He’s done much to attempt to solve the latter but seems alarmingly willing to ignore the former. The national debt this past year was approximately $14 trillion, already a stunningly large sum, but miniscule compared to the future. Largely led by growth in the already expensive entitlement programs, the unfunded obligations of the United States government currently amount to a staggering $61.6 trillion, or $528,000 per household. By 2049, Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security will consume all tax revenue, assuming that tax revenues remain at their historical average. 
While President Obama is not fully responsible for these absolutely unsustainable obligations, he is the President of the United States. Presi­dents are expected to lead not only their party but also the nation — without exception. Inherit­ing a national problem is not reason to ignore it. Lincoln inherited a nation on the brink of Civil War; he fought for the Union. Reagan inherited a seemingly perpetual Cold War; he defeated an evil empire. Obama inherited a debt crisis. He should have tackled the root of the problem: out of control growth in entitlement spending. 
The new Republican majority in the House provided Obama with a genuine chance to tackle the entitlement crisis without fear of political retaliation. Paul Ryan even did the heavy lifting and proposed a plan to reform entitlements and pay off the national debt. Obama responded with a heavily political speech and his own “plan” so vague that, when the Congressional Budget Of­fice was asked to score it, CBO Director Doug­las Elmendorf responded, “We don’t estimate speeches.” During the entire debt ceiling debate that engulfed the summer, the President of the United States could not come up with a single legitimate plan. The only existing alternative to the Republican plan — the status quo — is entirely unacceptable. Retirement security programs are on their deathbeds, the entire nation is in the sick room, and the President is on holiday from obligations. Raising taxes on “billionaires and millionaires” (plus all those making $250,000 or more) would pay for a mere few days of government spending — clearly not a credible solution. 
Compromise requires that two sides come to the table with conflicting proposals and meet in the middle. When one side lacks a plan, it’s near impossible to come to terms. The results of this summer’s debt debate should have been real, bipartisan entitlement reform, but a bipartisan compromise would require that both sides have a plan. For the dysfunction to begin and the recov­ery to begin, America needs a President who will recognize and address the debt crisis in good faith. The nation needs an upgrade in leadership. 
This article originally ran in the Sept. 1 edition of The Harvard Crimson, the newspaper serving Harvard University. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



Fight Song Lyrics 
Rally sons of Notre Dame, Sing her glory, and sound her fame Raise her Gold and Blue, And cheer with voices true, Rah! Rah! For Notre Dame. 
We will fight in every game Strong of heart and true to her name. We will ne’er forget her And we’ll cheer her ever, Loyal to Notre Dame. 
Chorus: Cheer, cheer for Old Notre Dame Wake up the echoes cheering her name, Send the volley cheer on high, Shake down the thunder from the sky, What though the odds be great or small Old Notre Dame will win over all, While her loyal sons are marching Onward to Victory. 



First Down 
Chop with your hand 



1812 Overture 
Make a “K” for Kelly 





Pre-Kickoff 
Make the home run signal 


Defensive Spectacular Play 
Point to the beat of the drums 



Alma Mater Lyrics 
(Put your arms around the person on either side of you while you sing) 
Notre Dame, our Mother Tender, strong and true Proudly in the heavens, Gleams thy gold and blue. Glory’s mantle cloaks thee Golden is thy fame, And our hearts forever, Praise thee, Notre Dame. And our hearts forever, Love thee, Notre Dame. 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Friday, September 2, 2011 
NFL 





Fred Taylor retires with the Jacksonville Jaguars 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. — Run­ning back Fred Taylor is retir­ing from the NFL after 13 sea­sons and nearly 12,000 yards. 
Taylor will sign a one-day contract with the Jacksonville Jaguars on Friday so he can formally retire with the team that drafted him ninth overall in 1998. 
The ceremony surely will be an emotional one, with family members, friends and former teammates on hand. The for­mer Florida star spent 11 sea­sons in Jacksonville and re­mains the franchise’s leading rusher with 11,271 yards. He ranks third with 286 catches and fourth with 2,361 receiv­ing yards. 
More telling than his stats was his transition from a shy college kid who seemed to find trouble in Gainesville into a model player who became a team leader and a strong voice for league issues. Coaches and teammates lauded Taylor as one of the hardest-working players in Jacksonville’s lock­er room. Media members and team personnel regarded him as the easiest to deal with, a class act on and off the field, regardless of wins or losses. 
Taylor spent the last two seasons playing sparingly in New England, where he ran 106 times for 424 yards and four touchdowns. 
“I want to thank every1 who has directly or indirectly sup­ported my career and help shape my character,” Taylor wrote on his Twitter account, saluting all “Gators/Jags/ Pats.” 
Taylor ranks 15th on the NFL’s all-time rushing list with 11,695 yards. He is 379 yards behind Thurman Thomas and 343 ahead of John Riggins — both in the Pro Football Hall of Fame. 
Taylor’s induction might not be a guarantee. He missed chunks of time because of in­juries early in his career, nev­er made the Super Bowl — not even with the Patriots — and played in just one Pro Bowl. 
He ran for 1,202 yards and five touchdowns in 2007 and earned his first trip to Ha­waii. He probably should have made it before, but playing in small-market Jacksonville did little to help his cause. He of­ten joked that he was the NFL’s version of famed daytime ac­tress Susan Lucci. 
As Taylor’s career started winding down, he talked open­ly about wanting to pass Jim Brown (12,312 yards) on the all-time rushing list. But once the Jaguars parted ways with Taylor after the 2008 season, he started to realize it might not happen. 
Injuries might have been the real culprit. 
Taylor missed 24 games over his first four seasons and was ineffective in several more because of various injuries. He had a strained hamstring that sidelined him six games in 1999, a strained knee liga­ment that kept him out of the first three games in 2000, and a torn groin muscle that pre­vented him from playing the final 14 games in 2001. That three-year stretch left him la­beled as soft, brittle and injury prone. 
But “Fragile Fred” proved all the naysayers wrong by start­ing 46 consecutive games be­tween 2002 and 2004, an im­pressive streak at a position that deals with more pain and punishment than any other. Taylor even played through a broken bone in his foot in 2004. 
Through it all, he became the face of the small-market franchise. 
Taylor had hoped to spend his entire career in Jackson­ville, but the Jaguars released him following the 2008 season as part of a rebuilding proj­ect. By then, Taylor had ad­mittedly lost a step and knew the team wanted to turn the offense over to Maurice Jones-Drew. Coach Jack Del Rio flew to South Florida to personally give Taylor the news. 


Taylor still has a house in Jacksonville, but he likely will retire in South Florida where he can watch his son play high school football. Kelvin Taylor, a junior at Glades Day School, has turned heads since mak­ing the varsity team as an eighth-grader. He is less than 2,500 yards shy of the state’s career rushing record of 8,804 yards (Emmitt Smith) and has become one of the most cov­eted recruits in the country. 


TENNIS 


Serena emerges as U.S. Open favorite after Venus withdraws 
Associated Press “It really wasn’t that difficult, same level as her,” said Kraji-ly a year with her own series has plans for her prize money. 
to be honest. I mean, she wants cek, the younger sister of 1996 of health scares — she was “Now I know for sure when 
NEW YORK — Neither her me to do the best; she wouldn’t Wimbledon champion Richard joined by a larger-than-lately I get home after the season’s words nor her play indicated want me to suffer,” Serena said. Krajicek. “I mean, nobody hits contingent of countrywomen. over, I’m getting a car. That’s that Serena Williams was dis-“So now, if anything, it should as hard as her. Nobody. Not Two Americans ranked outside the only thing I’m really looking tracted one bit Thursday at the motivate me more.” even her sister.” the top 100, 18-year-old Sloane forward to now,” she said. “My 
U.S. Open. If that’s so, look out. She’s Venus, who won the U.S. Open Stephens and 21-year-old Vania mom wants me to get a truck. I 
She would have been forgiven won 14 matches in a row and in 2000 and 2001, said in an in-King, knocked off seeded play-want to get a small car. It’s very if they had, of course, given that 29 of her last 30 on hard courts. terview Thursday with ABC’s ers to give the host country five confusing.” sister Venus withdrew from the On Thursday, she hit 10 aces, “Good Morning America” that women in the third round for Two years ago, when she was tournament 24 hours earlier erased the only break point she she “absolutely” plans to return the first time since 2004, when 16 and playing in the U.S. Open and revealed a recently diag-faced, compiled a 25-5 edge in to tennis and is relieved, after eight made it. junior tournament, Stephens nosed immune system disease. winners and made only 10 un-years of misdiagnosis, to know “We’re ready to go to the top, left New York to attend the fu-
Focused as ever, Serena forced errors in a powerful dis-exactly what’s been making her baby,” a smiling Stephens said, neral of her father, 1988 NFL absolutely overwhelmed Mi-play that lasted all of 49 min-feel “debilitating” fatigue. clapping three times for em-Offensive Rookie of the Year chaella Krajicek of the Nether-utes. “I know she’s a fighter, and phasis. John M. Stephens, in Louisiana, lands 6-0, 6-1 to reach the third “Did you guys see the match? she’s really strong. She’s great,” The 106th-ranked Stephens, then flew back that night and round, showing precisely why Or was it too quick?” Krajicek Serena said. “I think she’s re-who lives in California, beat played a match the next morn-many consider her the favorite asked reporters. ally happy now that she knows 23rd-seeded Shahar Peer of Is-ing. to win a fourth championship “Sometimes when you’re on what it is, after all this time.” rael 6-1, 7-6 (4). Stephens, who “The emotions and every-at Flushing Meadows and 14th the court against her, you just While no one was surprised hit one ace at 119 mph, never thing was crazy,” Stephens Grand Slam title overall. think, ‘OK, she misses a few to see the 28th-seeded Ser-won a Grand Slam match until said. “For me, today was really 
How hard was it to set aside balls.’ ... But she doesn’t miss ena move on — her ranking this week, is the youngest wom-crazy, as well. But it’s totally Venus’ situation? a lot. It’s just tough to keep the dropped after she missed near-an left in the draw, and already different.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE 
Time share for sale by orig. owner at Varsity Club (5 minutes from NDU). Available for football dates and/or grad. week. Contact Mark at 847-715-9699. 


FOR RENT 
B&B for ND/SMC parents by ND parents. 10 min from campus. 574­272-5640 
3BR 2BA or entire house for rent for ND football. 2 miles from campus. $350 per bedroom or $1000 for entire house. Fri 5:00 pm through Sun 2:00 pm. Responsible parties call 574-286-0321 

One bedroom unit w/ fullsize fridge, oven, etc. (can sleep 4) available for rent graduation week 05/13 - 05/20/2012. 
Unit is located 5 minutes from NDU at the Varsity Club. Contact Mark at 847-715-9699. 

NOTICES 
Everyone on campus is getting cheap eats, movie tickets, 2 for 1’s and FREE stuff. Get yours too. TEXT IRISH1 to 99000 

PERSONAL 
Looking to start bible study group. 10 lesson premillennial dispensational viewpoint covering entire bible in 1 hour sessions. Call Tom 574-876-8928 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit ND’s website at: http:// pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

TICKETS 

BUYING SEASON TICKETS/ANY GAMES - GAs only. Call 574-277­1659 
USC Ticket Raffle 

The dream of the Irish is alive in Portland! 
Portland ND Club is raffling 2 USC 
tickets/2 nights’ hotel. 
Drawing on Sept. 10. $25/1 entry, $100/5 entries. 
Enter online at www.ndportland. org 
Email NDPortland@gmail.com 

WANTED 

Research Participants Needed Healthy adults, ages 18-71 years, needed for psychology study at Notre Dame. Must have 8th grade reading ability. Involves ten 45-minute weekly sessions from mid-September to mid-November, 2011 and 2 follow­up questionnaires spring, 2012. Total compensation is $405. You must not be allergic to latex. Email Dr. Anita Kelly at akelly@ nd.edu. State your available hours Sunday-Friday. 
Use “ND Study”; as the subject line. Email akelly@nd.edu 
CHILDCARE FOR ALL ND FOOTBALL GAMES NOT GOING TO THE ND FOOTBALL GAMES?? 
ND & SMC GRADUATES LOOKING FOR RESPONSIBLE BABYSITTER FOR ALL HOME FOOTBALL GAMES! 
TIMES WOULD BE FRIDAYS 6PM & SATURDAYS ONE HOUR BEFORE GAME TIME. 
APPROXIMATELY 5 CHILDREN DEPENDING ON GAME, AGES FROM 3 TO 11. 
LOCATED IN DUBLIN VILLAGE JUST NORTH OF SMC. 
IF INTERESTED CALL BRIDGET AT 312-446-2322! EMAIL BKSEMMER@GMAIL.COM 

Friday, September 2, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
NFL 




Titans, Johnson agree to contract extension 


Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — The Titans and Chris Johnson have agreed to terms on a four-year contract extension ending the three-time Pro Bowl running back’s holdout. 
Tennessee confirmed Thurs­day the team had agreed to terms on the revised deal. Johnson tweeted Wednesday night that he had dinner in Or­lando with his agent Joel Segal “talking business” on the 34th day of his holdout. 
Johnson has led the NFL in yards rushing the past three seasons and refused to report to the camp without a new deal. The 24th pick overall in the 2008 draft out of East Carolina, Johnson became only the sixth man in NFL history to run for 2,000 yards in 2009 when he ran for 2,006 yards. 
The Titans revised his con­tract a year ago moving some money up in his contract, but he still was set to earn only $1.065 million for this season. 
Now the running back will be under contract for the next six years through 2016, and the revised deal is worth $53.5 million with $30 million guar­
anteed, according to a person familiar with the contract. The person spoke to The Associ­ated Press Thursday on condi­tion of anonymity because the contract details remained con­fidential. 
This deal will be noticed by running backs like Minnesota’s Adrian Peterson, who is in the final year of his original con­tract. Carolina gave DeAngelo Williams $21 million guar­anteed in his new deal a few weeks ago. Chiefs running back Jamaal Charles, who is going into his fourth season, tweeted, “Congrads to (at)ChrisJohn­son28 on the new deal well de­served....” 
The Tennessean first report­ed the deal. 
GOLF 



Dougherty leads after one round in Europe 
Associated Press 
CRANS-SUR-SIERRE, Swit­zerland — Nick Dougherty shot an 8-under 63 Thursday to lead Rory McIlroy by two shots after the first round of the Eu­ropean Masters. 
The Englishman had eight birdies in a bogey-free round, while McIlroy had five birdies in his first eight holes. It’s Mc­Ilroy’s first tournament since injuring his right wrist three weeks ago. 
“It’s totally fine,” McIlroy said. “I’m able to hit all the shots I want to and not lose any distance.” 
Martin Kaymer, Lee Sung and Gary Boyd also were two shots behind the leader. Kaymer had seven birdies and just one bogey. 
McIlroy showed no ill effects from the injury he sustained after hitting a tree root dur­ing the PGA Championship. He spent two weeks spent recu­perating in the United States with his girlfriend, top-ranked tennis player Caroline Wozni­acki. 
“It’s a great way to start the week,” said McIlroy, the U.S. 
Open winner who can rise to No. 3 in the rankings with a victory. “I’m sixth and I want 
to get higher.” 
McIlroy’s steady round took off with birdie putts of 3 feet and 20 feet at No. 2 and No. 3. His only blemish was a 5 at the fourth hole after hooking his tee shot into trees. But he re­covered with a 12-footer on the next hole, then made a 14-foot, downhill putt for birdie at the sixth. 
Second-ranked Lee West­wood and British Open winner Darren Clarke were in a group of six players at 4 under. West­wood’s adventurous round in­cluded two eagles and a double bogey. He missed short par-saving putts at each of the final two holes. 
Kaymer made a sensational a 40-foot putt for birdie at the short eighth hole, then finished with a birdie at No. 9. 
Dougherty has missed the cut at 21 straight events and has no earnings on the Euro­pean Tour money list. 
“It’s the first time I’ve manned up and had a go at it,” he said. “I deserved every one of those eight under pars.” 

page 16 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, September 2, 2011 
TRACK AND FIELD 


Three Americans win gold at World Championships 
Associated Press 
DAEGU, South Korea — In a golden half-hour for the United States, three Ameri­cans won world championship titles Thursday, none more surprising than Jennifer Bar­ringer Simpson getting the first 1,500-meter victory since Mary Decker-Slaney in 1983. 
Jesse Williams added the first men’s high jump world title in two decades, and Lash­inda Demus ran the third-fast­est time in history to take the women’s 400 hurdles. 
At the end of the night, the United States led the medal standings with seven gold medals and 12 overall. Russia was closest with four gold and 12 in total. 
“What a wonderful night for our team,” Williams said. “Will I celebrate? You can bet on that. We will have a big party.” On a day of surprises, double-amputee runner Os­car Pistorius reached his first major final Thursday, leading off South Africa’s 4x400-me­ter relay team and helping it qualify with a national record. The South African team is to decide early Friday whether Pistorius still would be in the starting lineup for Friday’s fi­nal, because it also could use Thursday’s 400 hurdles bronze medalist L.J. van Zyl. 
Simpson’s astonished face said it all after the race. She did not figure in the top 10 of this season’s performers be­fore outpacing all of the favor­ites and winning the first title for the United States in the race in 28 years. 
“I am supposed to say that I am not surprised,” said Simp­son, who had the 25th-best time of the season heading into the worlds. “All I can say is that a dream has come true.” 
Simpson sped past rivals on the finishing straight and then, with big eyes, looked at the giant screen facing her in Daegu Stadium to see if it re­ally happened. 
“I’m coming down home stretch and thinking, how did I get here?” Simpson said. “I knew coming off the curb I had another couple of gears, and I just thought I’m going to be re­ally hard to beat now.” 
She closed her eyes and raised her fists after the race. 
In the high jump, Williams was perfect through the win­ning height of 7 feet, 8½ inches, needing one jump less than Aleksey Dmitrik of Rus­sia. Both failed three times at 7-9¼, handing the United States a first men’s high jump title since Charles Austin at the 1991 worlds in Tokyo. 
If two golds in a dozen min­utes was great, Demus made it three in 29 minutes after a thrilling duel with Jamaican rival Melaine Walker. After twice getting silver, Demus finally got the breakthrough victory when she moved ahead after clearing the last of 10 hurdles alongside Walker and putting in a better finishing kick. 
Her time of 52.47 seconds beat the Jamaican by 0.26 sec­onds and Kim Batten’s 16-year­old U.S. record by 0.14. 
“It feels so great to bring it home,” Demus said. 


The Kenyans added their customary gold in the men’s steeplechase as Ezekiel Kem­boi successfully defended his title, then put on a dance performance that would have made ultimate showman Us­ain Bolt proud. 
Kemboi stripped off his shirt and flexed the muscles as the crowd cheered. He pumped his fist several times and started wiggling his hips in a raucous celebration. 
On the track, Kemboi left the pack behind with about 200 meters to go and beat Brimin Kipruto. Mahiedine Mekhis­si-Benabbad was third as he failed to get past Kipruto in the final meters. 


Friday, September 2, 2011 
NHL 



Former NHL enforcer found dead in hotel 
Associated Press 
TORONTO — Former NHL player Wade Belak hanged himself, according to a per­son familiar with the case. 
Belak, an enforcer who had played with five NHL teams before retiring in March, was found dead Wednesday in Toronto. He was 35. 
The person familiar with Belak’s death said he hanged himself at a downtown luxu­ry hotel and condo building. The person spoke to The As­sociated Press on condition of anonymity Thursday be­cause details of the investi­gation were confidential. 
“At this point it’s non-suspicious,” Toronto police spokesman Tony Vella said Thursday. “We will not pro­vide any further information on a non-suspicious case.” 
Belak is the third NHL en­forcer found dead since May. 
The body of 27-year-old Rick Rypien of the Winnipeg Jets was discovered earlier this month at his home in Alberta after a police official said a call was answered for a “sudden and non-sus­picious” death. Former New York Rangers enforcer Derek Boogaard died in May at 28 due to an accidental mix of alcohol and the painkiller oxycodone. 
NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman and Don Fehr, ex­ecutive director of the NHL Players Association, issued a joint statement Thursday afternoon saying that while each case is unique the “tragic events cannot be ig­nored.” They pledged to re­view the league’s substance abuse and behavioral health programs. 
“We are committed to ex­amining, in detail, the fac­tors that may have contrib­uted to these events, and to determining whether con­crete steps can be taken to enhance player welfare and minimize the likelihood of such events taking place. Our organizations are commit­ted to a thorough evaluation of our existing assistance programs and practices and will make immediate modifi­cations and improvements to the extent they are deemed warranted,” the statement said. 

Bettman and Fehr said it’s important to make sure ev­eryone in the NHL is aware of the resources available to those needing assistance, and that both teams and fans should know every option will be pursued to help play­ers in trouble. 
“We want individuals to feel comfortable seeking help when they need help,” the statement said. 
Belak’s wife, Jennifer, re­leased a statement Thursday night through the Nashville Predators, saying her hus­band “was a big man with an even bigger heart.” 
“This loss leaves a huge hole in our lives and, as we move forward, we ask that everyone remember Wade’s infectious sense of humor, his caring spirit and the joy he brought to his friends, family and fans.” 
Private services will be Sunday in Nashville. 
Craig Button, general man­ager of the Calgary Flames when Belak played there early in his career, told The Canadian Press it’s not only the deaths that are disturb­ing, but the deaths of similar players. 
“It’s not just getting hit in the head, it’s everything that goes with that (enforcer) role. I think that people are paying very, very serious at­tention to concussions and blows to the head and the role of the enforcer,” Button said. 
“I don’t think anybody can stop until we really under­stand the impact it has not only physically, but emotion­ally as well.” 
Mike Gillis, general man­ager of the Vancouver Ca­nucks, told the CP he expects the role of the enforcer to be re-examined now. 
The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 17 
NFL 



Lions cap off perfect preseason 

Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. — Run­ning back Jerome Harrison helped the Detroit Lions cap a perfect preseason with a 16-6 victory over the Buffalo Bills on Thursday night. 
Don’t start celebrating yet. The last time the Lions went 4-0 in the preseason, they became the NFL’s first team to lose all 16 regular season games in 2008. 
Lions coach Jim Schwartz re­mained cautious. 
“We’ve got a lot of work to do,” Schwartz said at halftime. “It’s all about being ready for the regular season. Let’s leave ac­complishments until we get to that.” 
Harrison had a solid show­ing in a bid to secure a roster spot once final cuts are made by Saturday. The six-year NFL vet­eran ran for 72 yards and set up the Lions’ two first-half scoring drives. 
His 47-yard run led to Mau­rice Stovall’s 16-yard touch­down catch from Shaun Hill to open the scoring. Harrison’s 17-yard run off right tackle set up Jason Hanson’s 44-yard field goal that put the Lions up 10-0 with 3:15 left in the half. 
Signed on Aug. 9 after rookie second-round pick Mikel Le­shoure tore his left Achilles ten­don, Harrison is competing with Aaron Brown to make the roster behind Jahvid Best and Maurice Morris, who sat out with a hand injury. Hanson added 46- and 35-yard field goals in the sec­ond half. 
The Bills (1-3) got a solid out­ing from linebacker Shawne Merriman, who had three tack­les in two series. It was Merri­man’s first game since missing the past two with a groin injury. 

Merriman didn’t want to waste time, knowing he wasn’t going to be on the field long in a final tuneup before Buffalo opens the regular season at Kansas City on Sept. 11. 
“It felt good,” Merriman said. “I’m glad I got the chance to get out there and play a little bit just to get into the routine of getting ready again. Now, the next time I line up it’ll be the real thing.” 
Merriman burst into the backfield to pull down Best from behind for a 1-yard loss on the Lions first series. On the next series, Merriman ran down Brown from behind to trip him up and limit him to a 10-yard gain on third-and-12. 
Down 16-0, the Bills’ Bruce Hall scored on a 1-yard plunge with 4:05 left, but Buffalo failed on 2-point conversion when Craig Davis bobbled Levi Brown’s pass in the end zone. 
The Lions, coming off a 34-10 win over New England, failed to score 30 points for a fourth straight game. Detroit has gone unbeaten six times in the pre­season. 
The new-look Lions are seek­ing to turn around the woe­ful fortunes of a franchise that hasn’t made the playoffs in 11 years—tied with Buffalo as the NFL’s longest current drought. 
They’re coming off a 6-10 finish, in which they won their final four games. It’s a run De­troit’s attempting to carry over into this year once it opens the regular season at Tampa Bay on Sept. 11. 
Schwartz took no chances, pulling both his offensive and defensive starters after each played one series. Matthew Stafford opened the game com­pleting a 39-yard pass up the right sideline to Calvin John­son, before the drive stalled at the Bills 39. 
Coming off right shoulder surgery, the 2009 No. 1 draft pick closed a solid preseason in which he went 25 of 33 for 395 yards with five touchdowns and no interceptions. 
Backup Hill lasted only one series, too, after engineering a seven-play, 80-yard scoring drive. 
Drew Stanton closed the first half, while Zac Robinson fin­ished the game. 
The Bills starting offense was in for two possessions and sput­tered after C.J. Spiller opened with a solid 27-yard run off left tackle. 
Quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick went 2 of 5 for minus 1-yard passing. Two of the incomple­tions were drops—one by Mar­cus Easley, who’s attempting to beat out Donald Jones for the No. 2 spot. Starter Stevie John­son also bobbled a pass up the right sideline. Fitzpatrick also had Johnson open over the mid­dle, but overthrew the receiver, who appeared to slow up before the ball got to him. 
Backup quarterback Tyler Thigpen struggled, going 12 of 21 for 92 yards in eight posses­sions. 
The Bills paid tribute to long­time Lions beat writer, Booth Newspapers reporter Tom Kow­alski, who died of a heart attack Monday. The Bills kept what would’ve been his seat open in the press box with Kowal­ski’s press pass left sitting on a game notes folder. A moment of silence was also held in the press box following the national anthem. 


page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, September 2, 2011 
MLB 



Kemp, Eveland push streaking Dodgers past Pirates 
Penny and Martinez exchange words on the mound; Tribe miss out on chance to gain a game on Detroit 
Associated Press Kansas City outlasted Detroit 
11-8 on Thursday. The teams 

PITTSBURGH — Dana Eve-split the four-game set — and land pitched eight crisp in-the Tigers needed late-inning nings and the surging Los An-rallies to win the middle two geles Dodgers survived a shaky games. ninth inning to beat the slump-Kansas City’s Johnny Gia­ing Pittsburgh Pirates 6-4 on votella hit a tiebreaking two-Thursday. run single in the seventh inning 
Eveland (1-0) gave up one run Thursday against Luis Marte, and six hits in his first major who was making his major league game since he pitched league debut. Eric Hosmer 2 2-3 innings for Pittsburgh at added a solo shot in the eighth. Texas on June 23, 2010. The Hosmer also had two singles journeyman left-hander was and two walks. promoted from Triple-A Albu-Francoeur opened the scor­querque earlier Thursday. ing with a two-run homer in the 
Eveland struck out three, second, reaching his milestone walked none and retired 11 in in style. His first hit as a ma-a row after giving up consecu-jor leaguer was also a homer, tive singles to start the second back in 2005 with the Atlanta inning. Braves. 
Dee Gordon hit a two-run “To do it on a home run — double and Aaron Miles had a even more special,” he said. two-run single for Los Angeles, “My mom texted me, remind-which has won four straight ing me that my first in the big and nine of 10. Gordon was leagues was a home run and my activated from the disabled 1,000th.” list before the series opener at Magglio Ordonez homered, Pittsburgh. doubled twice and stole a base 
Alex Presley hit a two-run for the Tigers, who lead Cleve-homer in the ninth inning for land and the Chicago White Sox the Pirates, who has lost five by 5 1/2 games in the AL Cen­straight and seven of eight. tral. Detroit took an 8-6 lead Ryan Doumit had three hits and on a two-run homer by Austin Chase d’Arnaud added two. Jackson. 
Andrew McCutchen followed Aaron Crow (4-4) allowed the East Coast. Two days later, week. against them over the last six Presley’s second homer with a three runs in the sixth, his the Yankees hit a record three seasons. walk and moved to third Dou-only inning of work, but was grand slams in a 22-9 win over Phillies 6 Reds 4 Howard hit a solo shot to left­mit’s base hit. Neil Walker hit credited with the win after the A’s, whose adventure was CINCINNATI — The Phila-center on a 3-1 pitch from Mike a sacrifice fly for the first out the Royals reclaimed the lead only beginning. With Irene delphia Phillies just reached a Leake in the sixth, giving Phila­
of the inning, but Kenley Jan-in the seventh. Phil Coke (2-9) heading toward the Northeast, number they haven’t seen in 35 delphia a 4-1 lead and extend-sen struck out Josh Harrison came in with a man on second Oakland had to play a day-night years, and Ryan Howard wants ing his streak of consecutive and Brandon Wood for his third and one out and allowed a walk doubleheader. more. seasons with at least 30 homers save in four opportunities. to Hosmer, an RBI double to And then the A’s came to Howard hit his 30th homer, and 100 RBIs to six. 
James Loney and Matt Kemp Francoeur and an RBI single by Cleveland, where they lost three Vance Worley pitched into the “It’s cool,” Howard said. “It’s each had two of Los Angeles’ 11 Mike Moustakas. in a row, including a 16-inning seventh inning and the Phil-not easy. It’s great to be able to hits. Loney is 22 for 47 (.468) in Coke hadn’t allowed a run in marathon on Wednesday, when lies completed an historic four-do that.” his last 11 games and Kemp has his previous 13 outings. He was the infamous midges swarmed game sweep in Cincinnati with Martinez went deep in the 
a .354 batting average (17 for charged with three Thursday. the field. a 6-4 win on Thursday. seventh, hitting a drive off Jar­
47) in his last 12 games. “The walk to Hosmer wasn’t “It’s going to be really good “Everybody’s playing well,” ed Burton into the fourth row of Brad Lincoln (1-1) allowed necessary, but Francoeur broke to get home,” said Cliff Pen-Howard said. “Atlanta’s play-right-field seats. three runs — all in the first — his bat on a ball off the plate, so nington, who had four hits and ing well. Milwaukee’s playing “What really hurt us was and six hits in six innings for you just have to tip your hat,” three RBIs as the A’s snapped well. The way I see it, we need that two-run home run by Mar-Pittsburgh. Coke said. “I jammed the next a five-game losing streak to go to keep our foot on the gas and tinez,” Reds manager Dusty Gordon opened the game guy, and he dropped one in. 4-6 on the trip. not let up.” Baker said. 
with a single to left and went to What can you do about that? Gonzalez was the difference. Michael Martinez added a Worley (10-1) allowed four third on Kemp’s one-out single. No one is more irritated at the It helped that the Indians two-run homer as the Phillies runs and eight hits, struck out Andre Ethier was walked in-outcome than I am—I hate per-were missing several regulars, (87-46) moved 41 games over seven and walked one. The first 
tentionally, but Miles followed formances like that—but I can’t but it doesn’t seem to matter .500 for the first time since Aug. six of his Ks came on called with a two-run single to right control everything.” who Cleveland puts out there 26, 1976, when they improved third strikes, most of them on field and Tony Gwynn Jr. added against the 25-year-old. to 83-42 with a win at Cincin-sinkers, he said. 
a sacrifice fly. A’s 7 Indians 0 “Gio was tough on us again,” nati. It was Philadelphia’s first The Phillies improved to 15-2 
Doumit singled and scored in CLEVELAND — The Athlet-Indians manager Manny Acta four-game sweep at Cincinnati in Worley’s 17 starts this sea-the second, but he also had a ics got slammed by the New said. “Even when we have a full since May 13-16, 1916. son and have won each of his passed ball that allowed Loney York Yankees and rescheduled deck of cards he is always tough Manager Charlie Manuel is as last 13, their longest streak to score an unearned run in by Hurricane Irene. They were on us. He’s got an overpower-greedy as Howard. since they won a club-record the seventh. Gordon added a rattled by an earthquake and ing fastball and one of the best “Keep winning games,” he 15 consecutive Steve Carlton two-run double to right in the attacked by tiny bugs. breaking balls in the league. He said when asked his goal as the starts in 1972. eighth. Oakland’s 10-game road trip always cruises against us, and season moved into September. Worley was cruising before 
Thursday’s game was a make-East was unpredictable and of-he did it again.” “I’d like to see us win a lot of the Reds opened their seventh up of a rainout May 12. It forced ten unbearable. After winning the 16-inning games—run off a good streak with three consecutive hits. the Pirates to interrupt their But it ended with a sure thing game that ended at 12:07 a.m., where we could play a lot of Drew Stubbs doubled and Ryan 
six-game road trip between — Gio Gonzalez doing what he the Indians took the field at those (bench) guys. We can win Hanigan singled before pinch-stops at Houston and Chicago always does in Cleveland. 12:06 p.m. some more. We definitely want hitter Chris Heisey hit an op-while the Dodgers opened an Gonzalez pitched seven shut-Their bats never awakened to win the division and have the posite-field drive to right to get 11-game trip that also includes out innings and baffled the In-against Gonzalez, who won his best record.” Cincinnati within two. stops in Atlanta, Washington dians again, and the A’s avoided third start in a row after five Philadelphia won seven of Worley said he was a little 
and San Francisco. a four-game sweep with a 7-0 consecutive losses. He worked eight games against the Reds off following Philadelphia’s 
win Thursday over Cleveland, out of three two-on jams, twice this season to improve to 30-12 lengthy top of the seventh. Royals 11 Tigers 8 which began the season’s final getting Asdrubal Cabrera to 
DETROIT — In his office be-month with a lopsided loss and pop to right for the final out. fore the final game of a tough another addition to its crowded After using eight pitchers on series with Kansas City, Detroit disabled list. Wednesday, Oakland manager manager Jim Leyland talked Gonzalez (12-11) improved to Bob Melvin was thankful Gon­about the strides the Royals 5-0 with a 0.72 ERA in six ca-zalez kept the phone to the bull-have made. reer starts against Cleveland, pen on the hook. 
The Tigers may be in first and extended his scoreless in-“That was big for us,” Melvin place, but the young Royals nings streak to 27 against the said. “It was hot out there. It looked every bit their equals Indians. The left-hander al-looked like he was tiring a little this week. lowed four singles, was never in at the end, but we really needed 
“I’ll be glad when they’re trouble against a lineup miss-him to give us seven.” gone,” Leyland said. “They’re a ing several injured regulars, Only hours into the season’s really good team right now, in and is now 4-0 with a 0.67 ERA final month, the Indians had to my opinion.” at Progressive Field. make yet another roster move 
Pitcher Brad Penny and How does he do it? because of an injury. catcher Victor Martinez ex-“Honestly, I really don’t,” Outfielder Shin-Soo Choo was changed words in the fourth Gonzalez said. “The defense placed on the 15-day disabled inning. Penny was pulled from does a great job. Our catchers list, the latest tough break for the game two batters later. do a great job studying video. the South Korean, whose 2011 
Before the Royals could leave, All I try to do is pound the season has been marred by in-the Tigers had to play them one strike zone. That’s it.” juries, an arrest on drunken-more time. Jeff Francoeur hom-Oakland’s trip began on Aug. driving charges and sub-par ered for his 1,000th career hit 23 in New York, the day a 5.8 stats. Choo strained a muscle in and drove in three runs, and magnitude earthquake shook his side on a check-swing last 



page 20 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, September 2, 2011 


Dayton 
continued from page 24 
almost back-to-back.” 
Notre Dame will play Day­ton first on Friday, then Saint Louis on Sunday. 
The Irish usually play a rig­id schedule with many of the same teams from year to year. However, Notre Dame has not played Dayton since 1992 or Saint Louis since 2006. 
“We’ve never played either of these two teams in my four years here,” Sutton said. “It’ll be fun seeing a new opponent. It’s fun to play teams that you don’t really know much about.” 
Aside from the chance to see a pair of new teams, the tim­ing of the tournament is cru­cial for the Irish. 
“It’s very important for us to start off on a good foot, too,” Sutton said. 
Because of the competitive nature of this tournament and the unfamiliarity the Irish have with both Dayton and Saint Louis, they have done their research to prepare for the Indiana Classic. 
“We’ve done our scout against Dayton,” Sutton said. “They’re not a traditional pow­erhouse, but they’re supposed to be very talented this year, so it should be a good matchup.” 
After the Flyers game, the Irish will watch Saint Louis play Indiana to prepare for their match Sunday. The Irish opened their regular season against the Hoosiers last week with a 0-0 tie and are accus­tomed to how Indiana plays. 
“Especially since it’s at the beginning of the season, there isn’t much film or scout­ing material on the team, so scouting the team is the best way to get a feel for how they play,” Sutton said. Saint Louis has won the Indiana Classic four times. Notre Dame has claimed the title once in its 10 appearances. 
Indiana has won 11 times in the 27 years since the Tourna­ment was founded. This year will be the first time the Uni­versity of Dayton participates. 
For the Irish, their goal for the weekend is simple: win their first game of the season and build familiarity and or­ganization as a team. 
“We always want to get a win,” Sutton said. “More im­portantly, we need to start fig­uring out goals and our team make-up. This is the second game of the season, so we’re still building. We’re not re­ally at our full potential yet, so we’re working on our team chemistry and putting togeth­er all the pieces of our team.” 
Kickoff against Dayton is scheduled for 5 p.m. Friday, followed by an 11:30 a.m. start against Saint Louis on Sunday. 

Contact Molly Sammon at    msammon@nd.edu 



COLLEGE FOOTBALL 



Badgers crush UNLV, 51-17 
Associated Press 

Bobby Hauck figured UNLV wasn’t ready for a major upset like the Rebels pulled in 2003 against Wisconsin. 
Still, he was satisfied with how his team rebounded af­ter taking a first-half flurry in UNLV’s 51-17 loss to No. 11 Wis­consin on Thursday night. 
“We weren’t ready to come in here and beat a top-10 team, certainly,” Hauck said. “But with that being said, we’re go­ing to be all right. I like our guys. I like the way we play. There were a lot of negatives but there were a lot of positives to build off of.” 
UNLV, losers of 10 straight on the road, showed some of the same jitters that coach Hauck’s squads have struggled with af­ter he finished his first season 2-11. 
New starting quarterback Caleb Herring was a notable exception with two second-half touchdown passes that cut the lead to 51-17 in the fourth. He kept plays alive with his feet and showed poise under relent­less pressure, but didn’t have many options and finished 18 of 27 for 146 yards. 
“Caleb Herring made a lot of mistakes but he did some good things,” Hauck said. “Our guys ran hard. I thought we held our own.” 
UNLV failed to convert its first nine third-down conversions, and one second-quarter se­quence highlighted the Rebels’ struggles. 
Wide receiver Phillip Payne committed a 15-yard personal foul for a late hit, center Robert Waterman snapped the ball over Herring’s head for an 8-yard loss, Payne dropped a pass with no defender nearby and Nolan Kohorst pulled a 52-yard field goal wide left. 
“It was good especially af­ter we got down there in the first half and didn’t capitalize,” Hauck said. “We had the late hit penalty on the block at the end of the route. We just didn’t capi­talize in the first half. It was a shame.” 
Russell Wilson threw two touchdown passes and ran for another in his Wisconsin debut and Montee Ball scored four times for the Badgers, who built a 51-3 lead. 
“There was a lot of space. 
They have a lot of good running backs, including the QB. When you give them space, they’re hard to tackle,” Hauck said. “Ev­erybody has trouble with these backs and we certainly did, too.” 
All the attention was on Wil­son, the North Carolina State transfer who is using his last year of eligibility at Wisconsin in hopes of getting the Badgers back to the Rose Bowl or better. 
UNLV (0-1) had some good moments. Herring’s two second-half touchdown passes forced the Badgers to send most of their first-team defense back on the field in the fourth quarter. 
“We did some good things as a team. It definitely was an environment that you want to play college football in. I think a lot of the young guys handled it well,” Herring said. “You can’t come out of a loss like that and be satisfied. But that was a good team and they’re ranked for a reason.” 
In some ways it was a typical Wisconsin opener. The Badgers scored on their first drive of the season for the sixth straight year. In some ways, it was very different: the temperature at kickoff was 90 degrees. 


Schedule 
continued from page 24 
Feb. 8, Villanova on Feb. 18 and Georgetown on Feb. 27. 
The Irish carry a 19-game winning streak at Purcell Pavilion into the 2011-12 season. 
Muffet McGraw’s squad will play one of the most dif­ficult non-conference sched­finale in Hartford, Conn. that could determine the Big East regular season championship. 
The Irish open Big East play Dec. 7 against Marquette, but do not fully get into conference play until January. 
Trips to Rutgers on Jan. 31, Louisville on Feb. 20 and Georgetown on Jan. 10 high­light a difficult road schedule that the program hopes will prepare them for another deep run in the NCAA tournament. 
ules in the nation this year, as has been the norm in her 23­year tenure as Irish coach. 
The Irish will be tested Jan. 23 when Tennessee travels to Purcell Pavilion. Notre Dame defeated the Volunteers for the first time in program history in last year’s NCAA tourna­ment. 
Notre Dame has a home­and-home scheduled with pe­rennial power Connecticut, including the Feb. 27 season 



page 22 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, September 2, 2011 

Waldrum 
continued from page 24 
coming up to you and read­ing things on the Internet [about] how poorly you played . more than anything, I think they’re just anxious to get back on the field.” 
Waldrum spent the first six years of his Division I coach­ing career at Tulsa, where he finished his tenure 66-33-6 with the men’s team and 61­36-9 with the women’s. Wal­drum, who is the all-time winningest coach in both Tulsa programs, said he is very familiar with the Hurri­canes (3-0). 
“I have watched the first half of Tulsa’s last game, and my impression is that they’re very organized,” he said. “They have played three games and haven’t been scored on. They look athlet­ic, organized, good with the ball and they have a couple of key kids that look dangerous. They are off to a great start.” 
The Irish will face Indiana (2-1-1) for the first time since 2001, when they defeated the Hoosiers in overtime 2-1. Like all Big 10 teams, Indiana is very defensive-minded, Wal­drum said. 
“They sit back and make you come at them and try to beat you on the counter like Wisconsin did in the first game. That’s just based on past history,” he said. “Af­ter not winning, we’ve got to make sure all our focus is on Tulsa. They’re going to come play us hard. They’ll be a good challenge for us and an opportunity for us to get on the right track.” 
The Irish continue to work on ball movement and main­taining solid possessions, aiming for an average of 400 passes per game. After Notre Dame’s loss to North Caro­lina, Waldrum emphasized the Irish cannot afford to lose focus on defense for even 30 seconds. 
“We gave away too many goals, and there was a lack of concentration defensively,” he said. “Just seconds cost you goals, even when you play well for 90 minutes. We need to try to focus on defending, and we need to be better at goal scoring and creating better chances.” 
After Notre Dame gave up a combined five goals this past weekend, Irish senior defender and co-captain Jes­sica Schuveiller insisted the defense is ready to stop an athletic Tulsa offense. 
“Letting in that many goals in a weekend is something that we as a back line and a team aren’t proud of, but we learned from it and are excit­ed to go out this weekend and get back on track,” she said. 
Waldrum said he hopes Irish students and fans take a few hours out of their Friday night to support the defend­ing national champions. 
“We’ll get them hooked,” he said. “We hope they watched Portland or Seattle in MLS and [saw] how they chant and sing. We’d love to see that kind of atmosphere here at Alumni Stadium. 
“With the first home foot­ball game, I hope this is the first stop after the pep rally because there will be plenty of time left to get out after the soccer game.” 
The Irish will host Tulsa Friday at 7:30 p.m. and they will return to action Sunday against Indiana at 1:30 p.m. at Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 



Stanford 
continued from page 24 

said. “We are going out [to California] to win two games.” 
At the Shamrock Invitational last weekend, sophomore out­side hitter Andrea McHugh fin­ished with 58 kills, including a career-best 25 against Idaho. She also won the Shamrock Invitational MVP and Big East Player of the Week honors. In­stead of getting distracted by these accolades, Brown be­lieves McHugh will remain fo­cused. 
“She will be business as usual,” Brown said of McHugh. 
“She’s not going to let [the awards] go to her head at all. She knows it’s all about the team.” 
Part of a bevy of young tal­ent, McHugh was not part of the Irish team the last time Notre Dame faced Stanford. The Irish enter Friday’s con­test with a 1-6 all-time record against the Pac-12 favorite Cardinal, including a three-set victory from their last meeting in 2009. 
Though Brown also coached that squad, she says prepara­tion this week did not involve a look at the game from two years ago. 
“That year we had six se­niors,” Brown said. “This weekend will feature pretty much two different teams.” 
According to Brown, the team — like its star outside hitter — has not changed its approach in practice despite preparing for a top-10 oppo­nent. 
“We’ve had the same mind­set this week,” Brown said. “Just like any week, we get the film and work with that. We work on our game. We incor­porated Stanford’s offense into our practice this week.” 
Both Friday and Saturday’s Stanford Invitational games begin at 7 p.m. 
Contact Cory Bernard at         cbernard@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JUMBLE HENRy ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

____________________ 
Friday, September 2, 2011 
WOMEN’S SOCCER 




Home for the weekend 
Irish return to ND for Adidas Invitational 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
After dropping two con­secutive matchups for the first time in 45 games, No. 10 Notre Dame will come home and try to salvage its hopes for this season in the Adidas Invitational this weekend. 
An overtime loss to No. 1 North Carolina and a slop­py defeat by No. 9 Duke last weekend gave the Irish (1-2, 0-0 Big East) an early blem­ish on their record and their first two-game losing streak since Sept. 13, 2009. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum said the team understands the importance of keeping their heads up and eyes forward as they take on unranked Tulsa and Indiana this weekend. 
“After Friday’s perfor­mance, I think that the kids understand that we’re as good as anyone in the coun­try,” he said. “Having people 


see WALDRUM/page 22 



BASKETBALL 



Irish set schedule for season 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame released the full schedules for its men’s and women’s basketball programs Thursday. 
Irish coach Mike Brey, who is now in his 12th year at the helm, will lead the men’s team in a non-conference slate high­lighted by neutral site games against Missouri, Maryland and Indiana. 
They will also play a road game at Gonzaga. 
Notre Dame’s Big East season begins at home Dec. 27 against Pittsburgh. Other top home games include Connecticut on Jan. 14, Syracuse on Jan. 21, Marquette on Feb. 4 and West Virginia on Feb. 22. The team will celebrate Senior Day on March 2 against Providence. 
The road schedule is once again expected to be a difficult one, with matchups against Louisville on Jan. 7, Connecticut on Jan. 29, West Virginia on  
see SCHEDULE/page 20 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 



Belles hope to improve on last year’s third-place finish 
By CORY BERNARD earnest Saturday at the Wabash son. I think that everybody left forth. eran-laden squad has what it Sports Writer Hokum Karem in Crawfords-the course feeling fired up for The Belles enjoy beginning takes to make 2011 even better 
ville, Ind. this fall.” the year at Wabash, Almond than 2010. 
After three years of finishing Senior captain Joanne Al-The Belles will race in an un-said. “As a captain, I know that the just outside the top three in the mond said the team raced well usual format Saturday. The Ho-“The Wabash Hokum Karem competition for the third spot MIAA standings, Saint Mary’s at Sandhill Crane Trail and feels kum Karem, hosted by Wabash has always been a great op-in the MIAA will be fierce, but I finally broke through and fin-ready to begin the new season. College, places runners on two-portunity for our team to re-am confident that our team will ished the 2010 season in third “Our exhibition race last Sat-person teams and adds a relay adjust to the race atmosphere,” take this challenge seriously,” place. urday went very well,” Almond aspect to the cross country she said. “Many people on our Almond said. “We have been 
This season, the Belles are said. “We had run the course race. team have not raced since last talking amongst ourselves and poised to match or exceed last before and all of our return-Each team will run a total of fall, and the unique relay for-looking for ways to improve year’s conference finish. ers were able to see how much six miles. One member will run mat of the Hokum Karem is a ever since our third place fin-
The Belles ran in the exhibi-stronger they had grown over a mile before handing the ba-great way to get used to travel-ish last year.” tion Sandhill Crane Trail Race the summer. The race also gave ton to her teammate, who will ing and to transition into some in Vandalia, Mich. on Aug. 27 us an idea of how we could work then run another mile before of our more competitive races.” Contact Cory Bernard at           and will begin their season in together in races later this sea-returning the baton, and so Almond said this year’s vet-cbernard@nd.edu 
MEN’S SOCCER 


Indiana Classic poses test 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will have two op­portunities to prove they de­serve their No. 10 ranking this weekend at the Indiana Univer­sity Credit Union Classic when they face Dayton and Saint Lou­is in Bloomington, Ind. 
Senior midfielder Chris Sut­ton said the Indiana Classic has traditionally brought the Irish great games that prepared them for the season. 
“Most importantly, it shows us how to play a Friday and Sunday game,” Sutton said. “When it gets into the playoffs, you have to be able to play a lot of games 


see DAYTON/page 20 



ND VOLLEYBALL 


Irish are unfazed by top-25 ranking in AVCA 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 

After starting its season with three straight victories, Notre Dame received 15 votes in the latest AVCA top-25 poll. Irish coach Debbie Brown, however, couldn’t care less. 
“Especially at this time of the year, [the ranking] is not a big deal at all,” she said. “It’s really hard to know how good your team is and how good other teams are. We didn’t beat anybody that’s notewor­thy. We’re facing a much big­ger test this weekend.” 
Notre Dame’s (3-0) test takes the form of No. 6 Stanford, which the Irish will face Fri­day evening during the Stan­ford Invitational in Palo Alto, Calif. On Saturday, they will play St. Mary’s (Calif.), which has also received top-25 rec­ognition. Brown said her team will enter the tournament very confident in its ability to beat the Cardinal (2-0) and the Gaels (1-3). 
“We think we have a re­ally good chance against both Stanford and St. Mary’s,” she 
see STANFORD/page 22 




