the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


ND,South Bend to begin taxi reforms 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
Early morning cab rides back from Club Fever will soon be safer for students thanks to reforms to South Bend taxi services planned by Notre Dame’s student government and the South Bend Common Council. 
The changes are intended to reduce the number of unli­censed cabs operating in South Bend, improve taxi safety for passengers and prevent drivers from price-gouging customers, the most common offense, South Bend assistant city attor­ney Ann-Carol Nash said. 
“Specific reforms addressing these concerns include pro­hibiting smoking in all vehicles, requiring a receipt for each passenger, publicizing stan­dards for passing inspection, raising the fine for operating an unlicensed cab and requiring placards inside taxis that list the driver’s name, the fares and a phone number for com­plaints,” Nash said. 
The reforms will begin taking effect in October. 
“The predictability and struc­ture for charges is a very big [reform] because that is often the source of complaints or confusion,” Nash said. “We want to help prevent surpris­es.” 


Student body president Patrick McCormick said safety issues are the biggest reason for the reforms. 
“Taxis provide an essential service for many students who lack transportation for other­wise getting to and from vari­ous places, whether meeting up with friends, going to parties or 
see TAXI/page 7 


SGA plans key goals for campus 
By KRISTEN RICE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s student body president Nicole Gans and vice president Jackie Zupanic out­lined a plan for their adminis­tration to be the “backbone” for student life and campus activi­ties this year. 
“Our goals for this year include partnering with more offices and departments to inte­grate activities on campus, cre­ating better spaces for students to relax and study, and strengthening established clubs and organizations on campus by providing support both financially and structurally,” Gans said. 
Zupanic said the team worked over the summer to plan a retreat for their new board. During the Student Government Association (SGA) 
see SMC/page 7 


Professor predicts turbulent times 


By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
The “Notre Dame bubble” will not protect current students and University administrators from feeling the effects of recent eco­nomic tumult in coming months, finance professor Jeffrey Bergstrand said in an interview with the Observer. 
“The biggest concern is the volatility that we have been see­ing in the stock market. This reflects constant uncertainty and pessimism for growth, cre­ating the possibility for another recession,” Bergstrand said. “The risks of parents losing jobs is heightened by the situation, and longer term, it means that there are prospects for our jun­iors and seniors heading out into the workforce to find a job.” 
As the job market reels, the country’s unemployment rate reflects the turbulent economy, Bergstrand said. 
“At this moment, we have a very low level of output relative to our potential, which is revealed by an abnormally high unemployment rate of nine per­cent.” Bergstrand said. “The United States of America’s nor­mal unemployment rate usually is at five percent.” 

He also added that the effects of the recent economic chaos are not isolated to those search­ing for jobs. 
While Notre Dame traditional­ly ranks among the top univer­sities for endowment perform­ance, Bergstrand said adminis­trators, particularly those work­ing in the Office of Financial 
see JOBS/page 7 



RecSports offers free fitness classes 
a good workout, but also burned their calories for free. 
The Turbo Kick class was part of the “Try It, You ’ll Like It” promotion RecSports is offering this week, which allows students to try all campus exercise classes free 
of charge, Kristen Malmstrom, RecSports fit-
see FITNESS/page 6 


By EMMA RUSS 
News Writer 
With a determined look on her face, junior Eileen Quandt thrust her leg in the middle of a Turbo Kick class hosted in Rockne Memorial Gym on Wednesday after ­noon. 
Quandt and the other mem­bers of the class not only got 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Philosophy club begins its first year page 3  Viewpoint page 10  Midnight in Paris page 12  Football prepares for South Florida page 24 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer . PAGE 2 Thursday, August 25, 2011 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud 
NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle 
Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jason Taulman 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerO nline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Megan Doyle Andrew Owens Mel Flanagan Cory Bernard Tori Roeck Joe Wirth 
Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Alexandra Photo Kilpatrick Mackenzie Sain Viewpoint 
Amber Galik 
CORRECTIONS 
An August 24 article, “Saint Mary’s welcomes new Board of Trustees,” stated College President Carol Ann Mooney appointed the board’s new members. The Board of Trustees, not Mooney, selected the new members. The Observer regrets this error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR  AVORITE BUILDING ON CAMPUS? 






Susan Head  Max Deardorff  Juan Albarracin  Lizzy McCourt  Mary Kate Roohan  
sophomore  graduate student  graduate student  graduate student  senior  
LeMans  off campus  off campus  off campus  off campus  
“South Dining “O’Shaughnessy.”  “The Golden  “Hesburgh “Corby Hall.”  
Hall.”  Dome.”  Library.”  


GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 

Students enter to win free pizza for their dorm Wednesday at the Campus Ministry Open House in the Coleman-Morse Center. The event showcased Campus Ministry opportunities available for students. 
OFFBEAT 

Clark Gable’s grandson charged with crimes 
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) 
— The grandson of the late actor Clark Gable was charged in Los Angeles on Tuesday with pointing a laser at a police helicop­ter and momentarily blinding two officers on board, prosecutors said. 
Clark James Gable, 22, was set to be arraigned on Friday on three counts of discharging a laser at an aircraft. 
The late actor’s name­sake aimed the green laser at a Los Angeles police helicopter flying above a nighttime event in Hollywood on July 28, according to the local District Attorney’s Office. 
Gable faces up to three 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
Former University President Edward A. Malloy will launch his newest book, Monk’s Tale: Way Stations on the Journey, today from 4 to 5:30 p.m. at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
There will be a FIDES: Freshmen in Discipleship, Evangelization and Service orientation meeting today from 5 to 6:30 p.m. at the Hammes Student Lounge in the Coleman Morse Center. FIDES, which means “faith” in Latin, is an intense pro­gram of faith immersion for freshmen. 
The Woody Allen film titled “Midnight in Paris” will be shown in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center tonight at 6:30 p.m. The cost is $3 for students. 
The Notre Dame Shakespeare Festival ’s Mainstage Production of “The Merchant of Venice” will take place at the Decio Mainstage Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center tonight at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are $12 for students and can be purchased at http://performingarts.nd.edu. 
The Class of 2015’s first trip to the Basilica and the Grotto will occur tonight at 9 
p.m. Freshmen will meet in their residence halls and travel together. 
The documentary titled “Cave of Forgotten Dreams” will be shown in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 9:30 p.m. The cost is $3 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
years in prison if convict­ed. 
The late Clark Gable was an Oscar-winning actor best known for his role in 1939 classic film “Gone with the Wind.” He died in 1960. 
Bull semen spill closes 
U.S. highway 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (Reuters) — A spill of frozen bull semen bound for a breeder in the state of Texas triggered a scare 
on Tuesday that tem­porarily shut down a U.S. interstate highway during the morning rush hour. 
The incident began when the driver of a Greyhound bus carrying the freight alerted the fire depart­ment he had lost a part of his load while negotiating the ramp on a highway near Nashville. 
The bus driver turned around to retrieve the canisters. Once emer ­gency personnel learned the smoking canisters were nothing hazardous and that they simply con­tained frozen bull semen that had been stored on dry ice, Tennessee Department of Transportation and fire department workers cleared the ramp. 
“It was no different to us than if a mattress fell off a truck,” said transporta­tion spokeswoman B.J. Doughty. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight friday saturday sunday monday 


Thursday, August 25, 2011 The Observer . NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 



Philosophy club approved for new school year 
Junior and club treasurer 

By MARISA IATI 
Cameron Cortens said the 
News Writer 
organization allows philoso­
phy majors to sharpen skills 
Members of the that apply to their academic Undergraduate Philosophy goals and enables non-philos-Club, new this semester, will ophy majors to pursue ques­have a venue to engage out-tions they do not encounter in side the classroom with the class. work of Albert Camus, “Philosophy Club’s main Friedrich Nietzsche and other purpose is to provide an philosophy experts. informal atmosphere outside 
Senior Katie Finley, club of classrooms and grades for president, said before the Notre Dame students with an Student Activities Office interest in philosophy to come (SAO) approved the club in together, share ideas, chal­the spring, lenge them ­Notre Dame ’s selves and strong philoso-one another phy department “Looking at other intellectually lacked a corre-schools that have on their posi­sponding stu -reputable philosophy tions and dent organiza-programs like Notre worldviews, tion. Dame, all the rest had and hopefully 
“Looking at undergraduate arrive at 
other schools philosophy clubs.” some fruitful that have rep-. discoveries in utable philoso-the realm of phy programs Katie Finley truth,” like Notre president Cortens said. Dame, all the Philosophy Club The club rest had under-consists of graduate phi -students losophy clubs,” studying phi-Finley said. “Notre Dame was losophy as well as students the only one of its caliber that studying other disciplines, didn’t have a philosophy according to Finley. club.” “We have a lot of people who aren’t philosophy majors,” Finley said. “It’s just kind of a good way to get an opportunity to talk, especially because they don’t get that opportunity in their classes a lot of time.” 
Finley said the club would meet once a week to discuss various philosophical writ­ings. 
“We’re going to send out a short article ahead of time that isn’t too dry and aca­demic, and then we’re going to discuss it,” Finley said. 
Finley said she plans to host monthly movie events at which attendees can watch a relevant film and discuss the philosophical ideas it raises. 
Cortens said the Undergraduate Philosophy Club will screen “Fight Club” in September, but the exact date has not yet been deter­mined. 
The club will also have din­ing hall dinners with philoso­phy graduate students and professors to learn about their research, Finley said. She also said she hopes to organize a spring conference at which a University profes­sor or an outside speaker will address club members. 
Last year, Finley said the club met as an unofficial group with between 10 and 15 members at each gather­ing. 
“We’re hoping to get a lot more members now that we can advertise because we’re official,” Finley said. 
The club plans to integrate 
phil osophy lovers of all levels of study, Finley said. 
“[We hope] to make more 
of a connec ­tion between undergradu ­ate students and graduate students and faculty mem­bers, especial­ly for under ­graduates that are hoping to go into gradu­ate school for phil o sophy, ” Senior
“Philosophical 
Chelsea King, 
discussions become 
club vice pres-
more and more fruitful 
ident, empha­
as the partakers grow 
sized the 
in friendship and 
impact the 
mutual respect for 
club has 
others involved in the 
already had on 
discussion.” 
her experience at Notre Dame. 
Dylan Belton 
“As a trans-
vice-president 
fer student, it Philosophy Club has really 
Finley said. 
“[Another goal is] also to get more people interested in majoring in philosophy, just to show them what studying philosophy is actually like outside the freshmen intro classes.” 
Senior Dylan Belton, club vice president, said the club would have fun events in addition to the more serious ones so that members can get to know each other. 
“Philosophical discussions become more and more fruit­ful as the partakers grow in friendship and mutual respect for others involved in 
the discus ­
sion, ” Belton 
said. 
proved to be a 
great place for 
me to meet many incredible individuals who all share a common pas­sion in discussing very deep and profound questions about life,” she said. “I have made many friends since my time in the club.” 

Contact Marisa Iati at  miati@nd.edu 




page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer . NEWS Thursday, August 25, 2011 


Fitness 
continued from page 1 
ness coordinator, said. 
“The free classes allow par­ticipants to try different class formats and instructors before making a commit ­ment. They may also find one facility or a time more con­venient,” Malmstrom said. 
Quandt said the trial week is useful for students looking for a RecSports class to take during the semester. 
“The free trial sessions are really helpful,” she said. “I probably wouldn’t make the commitment without trying the class first.” 
During the regular year, 
two classes last year, Crunch Time and Zumba, and plans to sign up for the Turbo Kick class this fall. 
“I always do the trial ses­sions before signing up for the class, ” she said. “Otherwise, if I end up not liking the class, it’s a waste of money.” 
Malmstrom said some of the most popular classes in recent years include Zumba, Yoga, Pilates and Cardio Box. 
RecSports will also intro­duce a number of new class­es this year, including Power Strength, Turbo Kick and SatAWAY, a class that takes place on away -game Saturdays and involves a number of upbeat activities. 
“The schedule [for SatAWAY] includes Outdoor Yoga, Outdoor Bootcamp, Hula Hooping and Piloxing,” Malmstrom said. 
In addition, RecSports will offer several new yoga class­es this fall, including Yoga Basic and Yoga Challenge. 
“The Yoga Challenge is geared toward individuals who have previous experi­ence in yoga. Another new, unique class is Prayerful Postures Yoga on Sundays,” Malmstrom said. 
Even though the “Try It, You’ll Like It” classes are free, the number of partici­pants in the cost-free week is typically lower than the num­
students and “There are never guys faculty can in fitness classes. If participate in guys are looking to RecSp orts meet some girls, 
classes for a fitness classes are a small fee. great way to do it.” Junior 
Aurora Kareh
Emily De Araujo took junior ber of people who sign up for the actual classes, Malmstrom said. 
“In the ’10­’11 year, we had 2,200 people partic­ipate in the free classes and over 6,300 regis ­tered for the regular fit ­ness sched ­
ule,” she said. 
Junior Aurora Kareh said that of the people who do sign up for the classes, she has noticed girls make up the majority. 
“There are never guys in the fitness classes,” she said. “If guys are looking to meet some girls, fitness classes are a great way to do it.” 
Class schedules, descrip­tions and registration infor­mation can be found on the RecSports website at rec ­sports.nd.edu, Malmstrom said. 
Contact Emma Russ at eruss@nd.edu 



College begins year with mass 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
When Saint Mary’s President Carol Ann Mooney addressed the crowd at the College’s Opening Mass on Wednesday morning, she stressed the importance of educating both the mind and the heart. 
“This is a community in which I see ample evidence 
of the pres ­ence of grace, and of the human capacity to accept that grace and pass it on in love,” Mooney said. “Having the will to serve, the heart to serve, is wonderful . But without the skills to do so, we are of limited help.” 
“We must also make full use of our talents … Whatever our educational or profes­sional paths may be, we must develop the necessary com­petencies to meet the needs of our neighbor, our commu­nity and our world.” 
Mooney said events like the Dance Marathon, the 12 Days 
of Christmas project and Rebuilding Together are all signs that Saint Mary’s women possess those talents. 
“This is a community in which I see ample amounts of the presence of grace, and of the human capacity to accept that grace and pass it on in love.” 
Carol Ann Mooney president Saint Mary’s College 
Nearly 700 students, facul­ty and staff congregated in O’Laughlin Auditorium dur­ing the Mass. 
“To truly answer the call of the Spirit, we need more than a good heart,” Mooney said. 
Mooney encouraged the Saint Mary’s com­munity to con­tinue to work for others. 
“Grace, the gift of the Spirit, is avail­able to each of us,” she said. “It is poured out for us. It is up to us whether we respond to it.” 
Fr. John Pearson, who presided at 
the Opening Mass, echoed Mooney’s thoughts in his homily. 
“[Saint Mary’s is] where students learn not just skills, but who they are and their relationship to God and the world in which they live,” Pearson said. 
He also called on the Holy Spirit to enter those areas of both faculty and student’s lives where they may not feel the most secure. 
“We call on the paraclete because … who are we elders to claim the capability and responsibility to guide these young people in these many layers of searching?” He asked. “And how capable do you students, wise and confi­dent as you feel one day, and inadequate and lost on another day, how capable do you feel to figure out all these things in your life on your own?” 
While the campus of Saint Mary’s has changed quite drastically over the years since its beginning in 1844, Father John said one thing remains the same. 
“What has not changed is the hope that all of us who come to this place will leave it better prepared to make our world one in which the love of God can be experi­enced as powerful through the love of these students and the faculty and staff who are privileged to be their guides,” he said. 

Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 



Thursday, August 25, 2011 The Observer . NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 


Taxi 
continued from page 1 
getting to and from the air­port,” he said. “The safety of students is the main focus of why we would be engaged in something like taxi reform.” 
Nash said she has seen stu­dents cramming into cabs at late hours and riding in unli­censed vehicles with drivers that have not received criminal and background checks or drug testing. 
“I was very concerned for [students’] safety when they go from house party to house party or from one bar to anoth­er or back and forth to cam­pus,” she said. 
McCormick said Notre Dame students are often charged an unfair rate. 
“The reforms hopefully will go a long way to address many of the concerns that students have raised about being taken advantage of by taxi drivers in terms of not knowing the area,” he said. 
He also said the reforms will help students make sure the cabs they enter are certified. 
Other reforms include pro­hibiting smoking in all vehicles, requiring a receipt for each passenger, publicizing stan­dards for passing inspection, raising the fine for operating an unlicensed cab and requir­ing placards inside taxis that list the driver’s name, fares and a phone number for com­plaints, Nash said. 
After a meeting Monday night with the South Bend Common Council and representatives from Notre Dame student gov­ernment, some of the proposed 
enter the job market in a few years. 
“I think we are looking at a position for the next several years of a very high unemploy­ment rate with very low growth,” Bergstrand said. “The reason for this is monetary poli­cies are nonexistent and fiscal 
stock market down affects the endowment for the University, financial aid packages, con­tinued volatility and lower levels of wealth that correlate with alumni giving,” Bergstrand said. 
As the University looks to the future in an uncertain stimulus policies will not be pur­sued due to 
“As members of 
Congress’ con-
society, the most 
cern over the 
important concern 
debt crisis.” 
now must be getting 
Job security 
back to full 
should be a top 
employment.” 
priority as national leaders 
Jeffery Bergstrand 
deal with that professor debt crisis, he fnance said. 
“St udents 
need to be 
aware that 
economy, students must do the while the national debt issue is same. Bergstrand said the a concern for their future, that workplace may not be stable is something more important to when current upperclassmen address when we have gotten reforms were abandoned, including requiring cameras in all taxis by 2013 and requiring that every vehicle used by a particular company display a uniform color and design. 

“We’re still going to have to have some kind of identifying information on the vehicle,” Nash said. 
The proposed reforms are the product of years of work, McCormick said, and student government and the South Bend Common Council are still open to hearing students’ con­cerns. 
“They’re still undergoing an implementation phase,” he said. “Many reforms will take effect in 2013. Because of that, there is an opportunity to con­tinue to provide input.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
back to full employment,” Bergstrand said. “As members of society, the most important concern now must be getting back to full employment.” 
As senior Matt Razzano plans for his life after graduation, the political science major said he is doing what he can to adapt to the vacillating economy. 
“I think because unemploy­ment is so high at this point, more experienced workers will definitely beat out less experi­enced workers for jobs,” Razzano said. “The only advan­tage we as students have is that they can pay us less money, but it is scary to think that many companies are not hiring recent graduates.” 
Razzano also said the aspira­tions for political science majors to land a job in Washington might not be as realistic as it once was. 

Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 


Jobs 
continued from page 1 
Aid, could struggle to meet pre­vious standards. 
“In the current scenario, one of the largest concerns with the 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
retreat, she said the board members met with department heads and administrators to talk about their goals for the year. 
The women will meet with all ter was the addition of a printer in one of the campus residence halls. The team will continue to work on their other platform initiatives this semester, and Gans said she would like more students to participate in stu­dent government to hear more of their ideas. 
“Since all of our meetings are open to campus, we hope to see 
of their board members indi­vidually during the first weeks “These positions of class, Gans will help us not only said. develop into good 
“These posi-leaders, but also tions will help great listeners.” us not only develop into Nicole Gans good leaders, student body president but also great 
Saint Mary’s College 
listeners,” Gans said. “We hope we learn how to be ambassadors to our school inside and outside of the office. Being approachable and open-minded will aid in the contin­ued success of Saint Mary’s stu­dent government.” 
Gans said their team is “pas­sionate” and “serious” about improving student life at Saint Mary’s. 
One of their accomplishments at the end of the spring semes­a higher atten­dance through­out the year,” Gans said. 
Social media and improved communication will also be a part of the Gans-Zupanic administration. 
“Also, we plan to have open forums and communication 
by email, Facebook, Twitter and our website.” 
Gans said she and her vice president are excited to work with the other members of SGA, in addition to the finer perks of the job. 
“[We get] free t-shirts and our own desks,” she said. 
Contact Kristen Rice at krice01@saintmarys.edu 



Hurricane Irene alarms tourists on East Coast 
Associated Press 
HATTERAS — Hurricane Irene could hit anywhere from North Carolina to New York this week­end, leaving officials in the path of uncertainty to make a delicate decision. Should they tell tourists to leave during one of the last weeks of the multibillion-dollar summer season? 
Most were in a wait-and-see mode, holding out to get every dime before the storm's path crystalizes. North Carolina's gov­ernor told reporters not to scare people away. 
“You will never endanger your tourists, but you also don't want to over inflate the sense of urgency about the storm. And so let's just hang on,” North Carolina Gov. Beverly Perdue said Wednesday. At the same time she warned to “prepare for the worst.” 
In the Bahamas, tourists cut their vacations short and caught the last flights out before the air­port was closed. Those who remained behind with locals pre­pared for a rough night of violent winds and a dangerous storm surge that threatened to punish the low-lying chain of islands. 
Irene has already hit Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic, causing landslides and flooding homes. One woman was killed. 
No warnings or watches were out late Wednesday for North Carolina though they were likely on Thursday. But on its Outer Banks, some tourists heeded evacuation orders for a tiny bar­rier island as Irene strengthened to a Category 3 storm, with winds of 120 mph. 
By Thursday, that could inten­sify to a monstrous Category 4 hurricane with winds starting at 131 mph. 
“We jam-packed as much fun as we could into the remainder of Tuesday,” said Jessica Stanton Tice of Charleston, W.Va. She left Ocracoke Island on an early-morning ferry with her husband and toddler. 
“We're still going to give North Carolina our vacation business, but we're going to Asheville” in the mountains, she said. 
Officials said Irene could cause flooding, power outages or worse as far north as Maine, even if the eye of the storm stays offshore. Hurricane-force winds were expected 50 miles from the cen­ter of the storm. 




Thursday, August 25, 2011 The Observer  NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 9 


Earthquake rocks capital 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — There was a crack in the Washington Monument, and capstones were broken at the National Cathedral. In the District of Columbia suburbs, some people stayed in shelters because of structural concerns at their apartment buildings. 
A day after the East Coast’s strongest earthquake in 67 years, inspectors assessed the damage and found that most problems were minor. But the shaking raised questions about whether this part of the country, with its older architecture and inexperience with seismic activi­ty, is prepared for a truly power­ful quake. 
The 5.8 magnitude quake felt from Georgia north to Canada prompted swift inspections of many structures Wednesday, including bridges and nuclear plants. An accurate damage esti­mate could take weeks, if not longer. And many people will not be covered by insurance. 
In a small Virginia city near the epicenter, the entire down­town business district was closed. School was canceled for two weeks to give engineers time to check out cracks in sev­eral buildings. 
At the 555-foot Washington Monument, crews found a 4­inch crack late Tuesday in the side of the monument’s pyra­midium — the section at the top of the obelisk where it begins narrowing to a point. The dam­age was discovered during a visual inspection by helicopter. It cannot be seen from the ground. 
The monument, by far the tallest structure in the nation’s capital, was to remain closed indefinitely. It has never been damaged by a natural disaster, including earthquakes in Virginia in 1897 and New York 
in  1944,  said  Bill  Line,  a  
National  Park  Service  
spokesman.  

Tourists arrived at the monu-ment Wednesday morning only to find out they couldn’t get near it. A temporary fence was erect­ed in a wide circle about 120 feet from the flags that surround its base. Walkways were blocked by metal barriers manned by security guards. 


“Is it really closed?” a man asked the clerk at the site’s bookstore. 
“It’s really closed,” said the clerk, Erin Nolan. 


Steve Jobs resigns as Apple CEO 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Steve Jobs, the mind behind the iPhone, iPad and other devices that turned Apple Inc. into one of the world’s most powerful companies, resigned as the com­pany’s CEO on Wednesday, say­ing he can no longer handle the job. 
The move appears to be the result of an unspecified medical condition for which he took an indefinite leave from his post in January. Apple’s chief operating officer, Tim Cook, has been named CEO. 
In a letter addressed to Apple’s board and the “Apple communi­ty,” Jobs said he “always said if there ever came a day when I could no longer meet my duties and expectations as Apple’s CEO, I would be the first to let you know. Unfortunately, that day has come.” 
Jobs’ health has long been a concern for Apple investors who see him as an industry oracle who seems to know what con­sumers want long before they do. After his announcement, Apple stock quickly fell 5.4 per­cent in after-hours trading. 
The company said Jobs gave the board his resignation Wednesday and suggested Cook be named the company’s new leader. Apple said Jobs was elected board chairman and Cook is becoming a member of its board. 
Jobs’ hits seemed to grow big­ger as the years went on: After the colorful iMac computer and the now-ubiquitous iPod, the iPhone redefined the category of smart phones and the iPad all but created the market for tablet computers. 
His own aura seemed part of the attraction. On stage at trade shows and company events in his uniform of jeans, sneakers and black mock-turtlenecks, he’d entrance audiences with new devices, new colors, new software features, building up to a gran finale he’d predictably preface by saying, “One more thing.” 
Jobs, 56, shepherded Apple from a two-man startup to Silicon Valley darling when the Apple II, the first computer for regular people to really catch on, sent IBM Corp. and others scrambling to get their own PCs to market. 
After Apple suffered slump in the mid-1980s, he was forced out of the company. He was CEO at Next, another computer com­pany, and Pixar, the computer-animation company that pro­duced “Toy Story” on his watch, during the 10 years before he returned. 
The January leave was Jobs’ third medical leave over several years. He had previously sur­vived pancreatic cancer and received a liver transplant. 


The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, August 25, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Locked out 
You know that old motivational speech where the coach tells you not to let your opponent come into your house and steal your momma’s televi­sion? Well, what happens when you can’t get into the house because you lost the keys? 
Just ask the NFL, the NBA, Spain’s La Liga or Italy’s Serie A. 
Or maybe you just shouldn’t, because coach-

Andrew Gastelum 
es aren’t allowed to 
Sports Writer 
talk to play­ers during a lockout. 
It is such a bewildering state of cir­cumstances that four of some of the world’s grandest leagues turned over the chairs and shut off the lights at some point this summer. Even more bewildering is the thought of what we would be doing if seasons were/are actually cancelled. 
Where would our country be if the NFL went into a lockout? Probably a depression. A battle of billionaires vs. millionaires took over a hundred days to get resolved but no one was really worried — a $9 billion-per-year industry isn’t just going to fold with that kind of money on the line. 
But what if it did? Would we walk out of Mass at the Basilica on a Sunday morning and go straight to the Stadium to watch the Michigan State game? College football undoubtedly would have benefitted from the “unfortunate” loss of their weekend brethren, probably enough to churn out a few extra prayers from athletic directors across the country. 
Speaking of prayers, one can only imagine what Turkish and Chinese basketball team directors are doing right now. All we know is that the Turkish league all-star game is going to be pretty wild this year with Deron Williams, Kobe Bryant and Sasha Vujacic (does Maria even like Turkey?). 
But if you think the situation would have been bad here, think about Spain and Italy’s current predicament: Their beloved soccer leagues drenched in history (and surely lots of garlic) are on strike over wages. 
The likes of Lionel Messi, Cristiano Ronaldo and Zlatan Ibrahimovic are certainly outside of team headquar­ters — this instant — in the cold and rain chanting and picketing with signs over the mere millions that they are barely getting by on. 
If you think it would have been bad here if the NFL season was in true jeopardy, how do you think the Spaniards and Italians are feeling, where soccer is their first, second and third favorite sport to watch (and a close tie for fourth with Formula One racing and basketball)? That’s true desperation over there, where they can’t even change the channel to watch their favorite sons and NBA stars Ricky Rubio and Danilo Gallinari play ironically because of — say it with me — a lockout. 
And what are we supposed to do if basketball season makes like a tree? Obviously the answer is watch more football, but after football season is over and the dreary winter months pick up, the only alternatives are to watch more hockey or study more. 
Looks like our GPA’s will be going up. 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Andrew Gastelum can be reached at agastel1@nd.edu 


And so it begins 

Beginnings, by definition, are moments of incompleteness. They are the com­mencement of something that is not yet. So, thankfully, beginnings are filled with freshness, a sense that anything can hap­pen. And yet, for precisely that Fr. Lou DelFra same reason, but not always 
Faithpoint 
so thankfully, beginnings are also filled with uncertainty, disorienta­tion, even some fear or anxiety. 
Even our most beloved Scripture stories 
— 
the endings of which are so well-known that we can easily forget that their actors were experiencing it all precisely as NEW 

— 
testify to the mixed blessing that begin­nings are. Remember: the first disciples of Jesus did not begin as disciples. In fact, the Gospels suggest, in the beginning, they had no idea what they were getting into. 


Certainly, this was true for Andrew and Peter, the first two called by Jesus. John the Evangelist captures their awkward beginning — famously and sublimely — in the first chapter of his Gospel. 
John the Baptist is preaching on the banks of the Jordan River, arousing a cap­tive audience with a fiery, penetrating mes­sage of the coming of God’s Kingdom, full of conviction and resonance. In a rather unlikely place — the middle of a desert — his crowd of listeners swells. 
The desert — though, aptly, a deserted place — is also a surprisingly frequent set­ting for beginnings in the Scriptures — from the Israelites’ journey through the wilderness towards the Promised Land to the temptation of Jesus before he begins his public life. Perhaps, as we reflect on our own beginnings, there is something spiritually resonant about the desert. For when we begin something, we do so, not from a place of total strength and certainty, but with the future somewhat unknown, the outcome somewhat in the balance. 
In the Baptist’s desert, life hangs by a thread. No one (except him, and wild beasts) makes a home there, and insects are standard fare. His disciples go there 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
perhaps for similar reasons that we jour­ney to Notre Dame — not to be confirmed in what we already know and experience, but to lose, at least momentarily, our daily comforts and certainties, and encounter something fresh and new. 
The first disciples take a risk — making this journey into the desert. (It is, arguably, about the only thing they do right through the first several chapters of the Gospels!) Evidently, these would-be disciples were dissatisfied with some aspects of their daily lives — personal, social, political, religious, whatever. So they wander into the desert and let go of their daily, insulating routines, to see what is there, what directions the outrageous, yet compelling, Baptist would propose. 
Who knows how long they waited, home­sick, in that place of uncertainty? All we know is that one day, the Baptist finally proposed — a new beginning. 
An unidentified figure enigmatically arrives in the desert. John points to him, and alerts the crowd: “There walks the one we have been waiting for.” It must not have been what most of them expected, for a mere two disciples — Peter’s brother Andrew, and a second, unnamed — follow. But though they follow, it can hardly be said that they know what they are doing, at least with any certainty. They simply trail behind this mysterious figure ... trust­ing, hoping, questioning. 
Finally, perhaps sensing their growing disorientation, Jesus turns to them and asks, “What are you looking for?” Surely, he already knows their perplexed answer 
— they don’t really know. 
At a loss, and now feeling how distant from their familiar comforts and certain­ties they have strayed, they make a plea for the recognizable: a home-cooked meal and a fire. “Teacher,” they ask, “where is your home?” Get us, in other words, to a place of security. 
Jesus gently but surely refuses. Instead, he invites with three indelible words right to their hearts: “Come and see.” 
And so it begins. Perhaps in this story of the beginning of 
the first disciples’ journey, we can see some semblance of our story, here at the beginning of a new semester. 
All of us — whether first-year students or lifetime Domers — begin this year to some degree incomplete and restless. If we are NOT feeling some sense of freshness, with a corresponding disorientation, we are probably not really beginning this year, but just continuing last year. Beginnings demand restless hearts, the embrace or at least the facing up to, of what is still unknown. 
Beginning to identify the burning ques­tions inside of us, the ones that have driven us to this place — the ones that drove the first disciples out into the desert — can be a great spiritual exercise to begin this semester. In fact, John’s Gospel suggests that in the following of our restlessness — the questions about ourselves, our world, our God that escape us, the questions that a professor or roommate or friend raises that we just can’t shake, the questions and people that are on our minds and in our hearts when we go to bed and when we wake up — are often invitations from Jesus to “come and see.” 
Here, perhaps, in our unarticulated hopes, our restless desires and even in our uncertainties and fears, we can wrest some consolation from the beginning of the journey of Peter, Andrew and the first dis­ciples. They followed a path whose end they did not yet know, into a desert, trail­ing behind a mysterious man, until one day, their restlessness provoked a conver­sation with God: 
“What are you looking for?” 
“Teacher, we hardly know ourselves, but we do seek, and you seem to know the way. Where do we live?” 
“Come and see.” 
Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, is a campus minis­ter and the Director of Pastoral Life for the ACE Program. He can be reached at Louis.A.DelFra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“No pessimist ever discovered the secret of the stars or sailed an uncharted land, or opened a new doorway for the human spirit.” 
Helen Keller 
U.S. blind & deaf educator 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy.” 
Martin Luther King Jr. 
U.S. civil rights leader & clergyman 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 
Thursday, August 25, 2011 ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
UWIRE 

Ramadan: Behind the tradition lies value 
Currently, we are more than halfway through Ramadan. As a Muslim, I never want such a time to end, for there is no greater opportu­nity during which one can grow clos­er to Allah 
Butheina Hamdah 
and gain good deeds. 
The Independent 
This is 
Collegian 
done through more frequent prayer, Qur’an recita­tion, spending spiritual moments with loved ones and Muslims in the community, especially at the mosque, donating to the needy through zakah as a moral and spiritual investment (as well as a major pillar of Islam) and, of course, the essence of Ramadan: fasting. 
Noor Najjar, a student blogger and a very dear friend of mine, posted on the first day of Ramadan a reminder about one of the core concepts of fasting: “The best way to understand a person is to step in their shoes. What better way to understand what the hungry or deprived endure other than to step in their shoes for 30 days?” 
Noor’s post re-instilled this highly relevant and ever true notion in me. In turn, I would like to expand on it in light of recent global develop­ments. While the importance of fast­ing is first and foremost to exercise self-restraint and demonstrate disci­pline so that Muslims may become more righteous, there’s also a second benefit. Ramadan provides an oppor­tunity to sympathize with those struggling elsewhere in the world. 

This could not be more appropriate to the current crises going on world­wide. For instance, East Africa is currently enduring a humanitarian crisis as a result of the worst drought in 60 years. Two failed rain seasons led to crop shortages on top of the horn of Africa’s already vulnerable state. It is expected to affect more than 10 million people in several countries, including Somalia, Kenya, Ethiopia, Uganda and Djibouti. 
According to reports by UNICEF, southern Somalia is suffering from lack of proper healthcare, insuffi­cient food supply and lack of clean water. In addition, Somalia’s political instability is worsening to a critical condition and hundreds of refugees flee to camps in Kenya as Kenya struggles to accommodate. The images online and on television depicting the famine are beyond dis­tressing. 
Matters are expected to become worse with no rain forecast in sight. Spiking food prices are making it increasingly difficult for the main agencies to afford emergency aid, so your help is crucial. You can help UNICEF meet these needs by texting “FOOD” to 864233 to donate $10 from the United States or visit their website at www.unicefusa.org to donate online. You can also make a donation through numerous other agencies including Islamic Relief Worldwide by simply visiting their website at www.islamic-relief.com, which provides more information on their East Africa appeal. 
Another life-threatening crisis overseas is Bashar Al-Assad’s gov­ernment crackdown on the Syrian people’s protests for reform and civil rights. Al-Assad’s continued use of imprisonment, torture and outright killing of any who oppose him in Syria has in turn made him one of the worst human rights offenders in the Middle East. 
The tragic stories we hear from Syria hit home with many members of Syrian descent in Toledo who still have family there. This Ramadan, I am not alone in remembering other struggling populations of the world. Every night at my local mosque I join the prayer of my fellow Muslims in the Toledo community to make a spe­cial call (du’aa) on behalf of people in Somalia, Syria and elsewhere. 
We pray for the relief of their struggles brought on by hunger, oppression or both. Even if you are not a Muslim observing Ramadan, it’s important to be aware of the dismal circumstances overseas as people fight and face threats of torture, death by their own armies or malnu­trition. The tumult in Africa and in the Middle East often frames our own concerns as quite trivial, especially when we have basic necessities and securities we should never overlook. 
As a Muslim, I find acts through my faith one of the most powerful reminders of such fundamental con­cepts. After such reflection, it is easy for me to discipline myself, to forget I have not had water since five o’clock in the morning. I can look forward to breaking my fast and sleeping com­fortably at night once the sun sets, but I cannot speak on behalf of the millions of others globally who can not necessarily do so. Living in a world that distracts and shuffles pri­orities, I find re-evaluating this world is most humanizing. 
Try to live by a verse in the Qur’an that reads, “And what will explain to you what the steep path is? It is the freeing of a (slave) from bondage; or the giving of food in a day of famine to an orphan relative, or to a needy in distress. Then will he be of those who believe, enjoin fortitude and encourage kindness and compas­sion.” [90: 12-17] 
Ramadan Mubarak to all. 
This article originally ran in the Aug. 23 edition of The Independent Collegian, serving the University of Toledo. 

Gold bubble will burst 
Businesses and shops that deal in gold have become commonplace across America. Pawn shops as well as new com­panies that buy and sell gold in mall shops have made gold speculation easily accessi­
ble to Americans.  
On Sept. 16, 2008 —  Editorial Board  
the same day global  
investment bank Lehman Brothers  The Oracle  
Holdings Inc. col­ 

lapsed — the price of gold was $779 per ounce, according to kitco.com. As of Monday evening, gold prices reached $1,911.90, which was more than double the price at that time. 
The debt crises in Europe and the U.S. have been the backdrop for gold’s rise, and the recent crashes in the stock market have scared investors further. In the current volatile period, investors who are seeking safe havens have been buying strong cur­rencies like the Swiss franc and the Japanese yen and commodities like gold, silver and oil. 
However, gold investing is also deceptive­ly lucrative, as fears of hyperinflation are overblown in the news and the price growth of gold is unsustainable. 
This is a worrying shadow of the behavior seen during the recent U.S. real estate bub­ble of the mid-2000s. People bought houses in expectation of higher prices and tried to sell those houses to people who thought prices would go even higher. 
According to economists, this behavior is called speculation. It continues until no one will buy the asset anymore because it is overvalued, causing prices to fall and the person holding the asset to get burned by the market. Gold is in a price bubble that is due to burst. 

Veteran investor Warren Buffet shares this dim view of gold, dismissing gold investing during an interview with CNBC last March. “If you took all of the gold in the world, it would roughly make a cube 67 feet on a side,” he said. “(That) cube of gold, it would be worth about $7 trillion at today’s market prices. That’s probably about a third of the value of all the stocks in the United States. So you could have a choice of owning a third of all the stocks in the United States or you could have a choice of owning that little block of gold.” 
What he means is investors gain no finan­cial benefit from holding gold other than the opportunity to sell it. Furthermore, U.S. stocks and bonds have outperformed gold by more than 200 percent since the 1980s. 
Gold is a volatile commodity and its value only increases when fear and uncertainty in the global market increases. Given the Federal Reserve’s Aug. 9 statement that the 
U.S. interest rate is expected to remain between 0 and .25 percent until 2013, there is good reason to believe that there will be more uncertainty and probably a short-term rise in gold prices. Even with price increases, the increasing value of gold over the past three years is an outlying phenom­enon that is temporary. 
According to kitco.com, gold lost more than 17 percent of its value in the two weeks following Lehman Brothers collapse in 2008. Sudden falls in gold prices have and do occur during times of economic uncertainty. 
This article was originally published in the Aug. 23 edition of The Oracle, serving the University of South Florida. 



LETTER TO THE EDITOR Athletic Department needs to use honest marketing 
Like just about everyone at Notre Dame, I’m a huge sports fan. Unlike quite a few people here, though, nei­ther of my parents own or run any companies that are household names, so I’m not exactly rolling in dough. 
This is why I love the fact that Notre Dame lets its students attend all of its athletic events for free or at reduced prices. The $250 students pay for sea­son football tickets may seem like a lot of money at first, but it starts to look cheap once you consider that a regular ticket to the USC game alone costs about as much as a black mar­ket kidney. Right now, though, I’m mad at the University’s athletic department, because they just ripped me off. 
You’ve probably received e-mails about how Mike Lee, a Notre Dame alum and former Bengal Bouts cham­pion, is going to fight at the Purcell Pavilion the Friday before the Michigan State game. I bought tickets as soon as I got the e-mail because I wanted to see an old-fashioned Irish beatdown. 
At 6-0, Mike Lee is a pretty good fighter. Look up his November 2010 fight in Cowboys Stadium on YouTube and watch him reduce Keith Debow’s IQ by a measurable amount with a nasty overhand right to see what I mean. When I found out that I could get a ticket to this fight for a measly 15 bucks, I couldn’t click my way to the UND.com checkout page fast enough. 
When I got there, though, what I saw made me angry. Fifteen dollars had quickly become $25.50 after I got hit with the one-two combo of a $1.50 “fee” and a nasty $9.00 “ordering charge.” Do they really expect me to believe it takes them $9.00 to process my 10-kilobyte online order? Either the electrons that transmit data through cyberspace have formed a union and demanded higher pay, big­ger pensions and comprehensive health plans, or the athletic depart­ment wants to charge me $25.50 for a boxing ticket but doesn’t have the guts to say it to my face. 
In the grand scheme of things, $25.50 isn’t that much. It’s the equiv­alent of literally about nine minutes of instruction from one of my esteemed professors. If the University had sent me an e-mail saying “Mike Lee tick­ets, only $25.50,” I wouldn’t have written this letter. 
Instead, they told me the tickets were $15. I love my University enough to expose the rot in her midst. Those who market sporting events need to stand up and ask for the full price up front like real Fighting Irishmen. If I wanted to attend a university full of money-grubbing cheaters who shun the light of truth and righteousness, I would have gone to USC. 
To paraphrase the late, great Patrick Henry, give me honesty, or give me an ugly red and yellow shirt! 
Elliott Pearce 
junior Knott Hall Aug. 24 
The Observer 



Scene
page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, August 25, 2011 

By NEIL MATHIESON 
Scene Writer 
The past decade was not kind to an aging Mr. Allen. The indelible quality that made him one of the most illustrious filmmakers 
of the 1970s, with films such as “Annie Hall” and “Manhattan,” all but vanished. Before the curtain closed on Woody Allen’s career, the 75 -year-old filmmaker once 
again found his stride with “Midnight in Paris.” A huge success both critically and commercially, “Midnight in Paris” is Woody Allen’s highest grossing film to date. 
The film stars Owen Wilson as Gil, a Hollywood screenwriter who feels artistical­ly unfulfilled with his career. Gil aspires to write fiction and achieve something similar to the literary giants that inspired him. He comes to Paris on vacation with his fiancée Inez, played by Rachel McAdams, and falls in love with the city. Paris ignites 



On campus 
Who: ‘Midnight in Paris’Where: Browning Cinema When: Thursday at 6:30 p.m., Friday at 9:30 
p.m. and Saturday at 6:30 p.m.How much: $6 regular, $4 seniors, $3 stu­dents 
and he even suggests that he and Inez move there after they are married. Unfortunately, Inez does not share Gil’s adoration of Paris and leaves him to explore Paris’s elegant boulevards on his own. 
During one of Gil’s evening walks, a taxi pulls up beside him and ushers him in. Gil is then transported back in time to Paris in the 1920s, his favorite era, where he is able to socialize with iconic figures such as Hemingway and Fitzgerald over evening cocktails and lavish parties. Gil even meets Adriana (Marion Cotillard), a bewitching socialite who shares Gil’s romantic ideals. However, this fantastical past is not Gil’s present and he struggles to decide between both women and time periods. 
Wilson is incredibly charming and affable he tries to come to grips with 
magical journey and attempts to quell his excitement when meeting his literary heroes. Cotillard, Adrien Brody and Michael Sheen also lend strong per­
formances, but Allen gives most of the screen time to Paris and films with bril­liant cinematography. The re-creation 
the 1920s is luminous and without question the lifeblood of the film. 
of “Midnight in Paris” is unforeseen and astounding. Allen, a con-combatant against the use of TV marketing ploys, is rarely viewed by the Hollywood community breadwinner. He believes that film is good, then word of mouth and critical praise will translate into ticket sales. While most studios would cringe at this suggestion, Sony Picture Classics is laughing all the way to the bank. The film played in selected cities but its popu­larity had theatre owners calling for a nation -wide release, and Sony was happy to comply. It is now the second highest grossing film in Sony Pictures Classic behind “Crouching Tiger 
The Observer 



Scene
Thursday, August 25, 2011 ndmscobserver.com | page 13 


‘Midnight in Paris’  IRISHenanigans  B1 Block Party  ‘The Merchant of Venice’  
When: 6:30 p.m.  When: 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.  When: 5 p.m. to 4 a.m.  When: 2 p.m.  
Where: Browning Cinema  Where: Across campus  Where: B1 parking lot  Where: DPAC  
How Much: $3  How Much: Free  How much: $10  How Much: $15  
DPAC opens its yearlong film- Held in various locations across  This Legends-sponsored event  The  annual  Notre  Dame  
screening program with Woody  campus, the annual SAO-spon­ features food, activities and tons  Shakespeare Festival closes out  
Allen’s “Midnight in Paris.” The  sored IRISHenanigans will enter- of live music. The highlight of the  its 2011  season  with the final  
film, about a disillusioned screen­ tain students with fun-filled events  night will be headliner Girl Talk  performance of “The Merchant of  
writer (Owen Wilson) and his  like  a  comedy show, carnival,  hitting the stage for what is sure  Venice.” This classic Bard story  
fiancée (Rachel McAdams), fol- music, a bear bus, mini-golf and  to be a fantastic set. Known for  centers on the titular Venetian  
lows the pair as they travel to  tons of other activities throughout  his infectious mash-ups and crazy  merchant and other Venetians  
Paris. There, Wilson’s character  the night. All events are complete- stage antics, Girl Talk always gets  who find love, face betrayal and  
finds a mysterious and fantastical  ly free for students, so scour cam- his crowd dancing (and often joins  question justice in this tragic  
gathering of 1920s writers and  pus Friday night to find the best  in as well). Opening acts Midwest  comedy. Tickets can be purchased  
finds it hard to return to the pres- food and the most exciting activi- Hype and Tim Stop Trio will take  at the DPAC box office or on their  
ent.  ties.  the stage at 5:30 p.m.  website, performingarts.nd.edu.  


ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, August 25, 2011 
PGA TOUR 


Playoffs offer new life for Els and other veterans 
Associated Press 
EDISON, N.J. — Ernie Els sure didn’t look to be down in the dumps for someone who has tumbled so far in the FedEx Cup. 
It was only a year ago that the Big Easy was the No. 1 seed going into the PGA Tour’s version of the postseason. He went to the top of the standings by winning a World Golf Championship in March, and stayed there for the next five months. 
This year, he wasn’t even sure he would make it to The Barclays. 
Els was just outside the top 125 — the cutoff to make the FedEx Cup bonanza — and had to play last week in the Wyndham Championship to have any chance of making the play­offs. He tied for 30th and moved up to No. 118. 
“It’s a little different,” Els said Wednesday. “But I think this is almost a better mentality. I feel I need to be aggressive and get up the bloody points list. Otherwise, I’m going home. Last year I was the No. 1 seed, but I wasn’t quite playing as good as I was in March. This year, I feel like I have to make a move. And I feel a little more comfortable with that. 
“I had three good rounds last week, and I feel my game is com­ing along,” he said. “It’s a good feeling going in.” 
Els is among five players who have made it to the Tour Championship — and a shot at the $10 million bonus — each of the last four years. His chances of being in the top 30 are much more remote starting out at No. 118. 
Even so, his optimism remains high, and there are a couple of reasons for that. 
One is Heath Slocum, the poster boy for opportunity in the playoffs. Two years ago, Slocum barely got into the playoffs at No. 124, and then won The Barclays to secure a spot in the FedEx Cup finale at East Lake. 
Another is Martin Laird. He faced elimination in the first tournament last year until he was the runner-up at The Barclays, moving him up to No. 3 in the standings. He wound up 11th in the final standings and picked up a $300,000 bonus. 
The fifth year of the FedEx Cup playoffs gets under way Thursday at Plainfield Country Club, the fourth course used for the opening event, one that ends with a 285-yard par 4 that should deliver plenty of excite­ment. 
Along with a different course, there’s a different look to the 125-man field. 
Tiger Woods, a two-time FedEx Cup champion and the No. 1 seed in three of the four years, failed to qualify for the first time when he missed the cut at the PGA Championship. 
The No. 1 seed is Nick Watney, whose two wins this year include a World Golf Championship at Doral. 
“I feel like I’m in the best posi­tion I can be, and I’m very pleased with the year so far,” Watney said. “But we have a long way to go. I’m excited to see if I can hold up in these next four events.” 
Phil Mickelson kept alive his streak as the only player to be among the top 10 seeds in every year of the FedEx Cup. He is at No. 6 this year, and he has listed winning the cup as one of his goals. 
The change can be found more toward the bottom, where Els has plenty of company. 
Padraig Harrington, a three-time major champion, nearly missed the playoffs. He closed with a 68 last week to tie for 47th. He then had to wait some two hours to see if it would be enough to qualify for the postsea­son. He barely made it, finishing at No. 124. 
He studied accounting in col­lege, so the Irishman knew how close he came to missing out. And yes, he already has done the math at The Barclays, figuring he needs to be in the top 30 at Plainfield to be among the top 100 players who move on to Boston next week. 
Much like Els, he sees only opportunity. 
“I’m of the opinion that I’m in a great position going into this, that I’m just like every other guy,” Harrington said. “In order to win the FedEx Cup, you’re going to have to win one of the first three events, and the last event. I’ve got nearly the same chance as anybody else of win­ning this outright. I just need to perform a little bit quicker than other guys.” 
Some of that is misleading, some of that is true. 
Two-time U.S. Open champion Retief Goosen has been among the top 24 seeds the last two years. Now he’s at No. 101, meaning his season will end if he misses the cut, or perhaps if he finishes toward the bottom of the pack. 
His hopes are not as great, mainly because of a freak acci­dent on his way to New Jersey. 
Before leaving home in Orlando, Fla., Goosen watched the track of Hurricane Irene. Just in case it turned toward Florida, he decided to push his boat into the garage. The front wheel of the boat trailer went over his right toe. 

“It went blue instantly,” Goosen said. “I had X-rays and they said it was a fracture. But I don’t think it is. It’s not as sore as it should be. But all the other toes are getting sore now because I’m walking funny.” 
Indeed, it will be an uphill climb this week at Plainfield. 
“You just have to go for it, move up as much as you can as quickly as you can,” Goosen said. 
MLB 


Dodgers dent Cardinals’ playoff hopes with road sweep 
best he can. I think it’s all on us.” fan wearing a blue Dodgers T-out for the final out of the second. La Russa and Garcia, who exit-Associated Press Juan Rivera homered and shirt was ejected after firing a St. Louis was 1½ games behind ed with a 2.73 home ERA, both knocked in three runs for the baseball across the diamond from the Brewers after acquiring maintain fatigue is not an issue. 
ST. LOUIS — The situation Dodgers, who outscored the the stands and nearly striking Edwin Jackson and Rafael Furcal “I had a couple starts where it could not be any bleaker for the Cardinals 24-7 in their first three-Albert Pujols at first base when at the trade deadline, but is 10-13 was tough,” Garcia said. “Today it St. Louis Cardinals. Manager Tony game sweep in St. Louis since the Cardinals were on defense. since while the Brewers have was no physical fatigue or any-La Russa refuses to play the Aug. 20-22, 1993. The Cardinals The Cardinals have been swept gone 24-5. Gerald Laird hit his thing. I felt good. It’s just one of blame game. have dropped seven of nine and twice at home and Rivera home-first National League homer, a those things.” 
“We’re all in this together,” La failed to capitalize on a loss by NL red in both, helping the Blue Jays two-run drive in the seventh, and Garcia said his biggest problem Russa said after the Los Angeles Central-leading Milwaukee. take a three-game set from June Skip Schumaker had a season-Wednesday was failing to take Dodgers scored an early knockout La Russa said getting swept at 24-26 before the Dodgers traded high four hits with an RBI to hike more time between pitches in the for the second straight day and home was “as bad as it can get” for him in July. his average to .301. third. completed their first road sweep but he says no one’s giving up. Hiroki Kuroda (10-14) worked Eight straight Dodgers reached “When stuff like that happens, of the season with a 9-4 victory on “That’ll never happen, not to seven solid innings in 98-degree safely to start a six-run third that you’ve got to step off and think Wednesday. “We talk all the time this club, not to the coaching staff heat, the hottest first-pitch tem-matched their season best and about the pitch you’re going to and we’ll get it fixed together. or myself,” La Russa said. “But perature of the year, and A.J. Ellis put them up 6-1. The rally was make,” Garcia said. “Just relax 
“Whether I talk or don’t talk or disappointed — you get frustrated hit his first career homer off of kicked off by a pair of walks fol-for a little bit and try to limit the some talk. Whatever.” with some of the way the games Jaime Garcia (10-7) to give the lowed by six straight hits that pro-damage. 
Lance Berkman said it certainly are being played. Dodgers a two-day total of six duced at least one RBI. “I’m not going to lie, sometimes wasn’t the manager’s fault the “This league forever and ever, long balls. Matt Kemp had two Garcia, who had been 6-3 with I don’t do a very good job. But I’m Cardinals are 10 games behind all the major leagues, are as singles and two RBIs and James a 2.06 ERA at home, finally trying.” the Milwaukee Brewers with only much a sign of your toughness Loney had three hits with a pair recorded his first out of the inning Kuroda has won four of his last 32 games to go. and your character as they are of doubles and an RBI. on Kuroda’s sacrifice and gave up five starts and is 3-2 with a 2.11 
“He’s not the one out there your talent.” The Cardinals trailed 6-0 before seven runs in five innings. He’s 0-ERA in six day starts. The right-making bad pitches or having bad Frustration is building in a fan Garcia got his first at-bat leading 3 in his last six starts and has hander allowed three runs on at-bats or not playing defense,” base that showered more boos off the third, and a day earlier it lasted just five innings in four of eight hits with four strikeouts and Berkman said. “He’s doing the than usual the last few days. One was 7-0 before Kyle Lohse struck his last five outings. a walk. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
3BR House available now. Close to 

WANTED FOR SALE FOR RENT ND/SM campus. Well-kept, cute, NOTICES PERSONAL 
clean, laundry and yard. No 

pets/smoking. Available now. Call Everyone on campus is getting SALES REP to sell ads to local 3BR 2BA or entire house for rent for 269-429-6346 cheap eats, movie tickets, 2 for 1's UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't businesses. Ad Text: ND football. ——————————————— and FREE stuff. Get yours too. go it alone. Notre Dame has many 
2 miles from campus. $350 per bed-:AAA Clean 2 BR apartment for TEXT IRISH1 to 99000 resources in place to assist you. If room or $1000 for entire house. rent. Close to ND and Saint Mary's. ——————————————— you or someone you love needs GREAT earning potential! 4 NDvSF tickets. Sec4, Row50. $530 month + $400 deposit. Rent confidential support or assistance, includes heat, water and trash. Looking to start bible study group. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 
Fri 5:00 pm through Sun 2:00 pm. Tenant responsible for electric and 10 lesson premillennial dispensa-or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more SEND resume to gas water heater. Coin washer/dryer tional viewpoint covering entire bible information, visit carrier539@gmail.com $70/ea. 432.571.7858 Responsible parties call 574-286-on-site. Call 574-274-2648. Credit in 1 hour sessions. Call Tom 574-ND's website at: http://pregnancy­
0321 check required. 876-8928 support@nd.edu ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 

page 16 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, August 25, 2011 
NFL 




Steelers to start year with new linemen 

Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — Three Super Bowl appearances over the past six years, three different start­ing centers for the Pittsburgh Steelers. Three different right guards, left tackles and right tackles, too. 
In fact, along the Pittsburgh’s offensive line, only left guard has had a modicum of stability over the course of Super Bowl wins following the 2005 and 2008 seasons and even through last season’s Super Bowl loss to the Green Bay Packers. 
In a league — and on a team 
— in which stability, chemistry and cohesiveness are valued in constructing an elite offensive line, the Steelers have managed to consistently remain among the NFL’s best despite constant change. 
This preseason, the reigning AFC champions have auditioned no fewer than four candidates for the job of starting right guard, and virtually every prominent player on the unit has missed practice time due to injury and/or contract issues. 
The depth has been ques­tioned enough that the team brought back six-year veteran Trai Essex less than a month after coaches had determined he was too out of shape to re­sign as a free agent. 
Yet somehow, the Steelers aren’t all that concerned. After all, they’ve overcome it before. 
“I think every guy in here knows that when your number’s called, you’ve got to answer the bell, and we’ve been successful with that for the most part,” right tackle Willie Colon said. “But having that solid (starting) five out there is going to be really important for us starting the season.” 
Colon missed all of last season with an Achilles injury and sat out the first week of this train­ing camp because of the post-lockout rules governing free agents. 
But Colon and Pro Bowl cen­ter Maurkice Pouncey — him­self briefly bothered by a pesky ankle this camp — are the most steady components of the line. Chris Kemoeatu is entering his fifth season as the starting left guard. But he opened camp on the physically unable to per­form list due to left knee swelling. 
“As of right now, we’ve got a bunch of new guys stepping into the (first-team) scene,” Kemoeatu said, “and I’m still trying to get back to 100 per­cent. But we’ve got two weeks left. 
“It’s all about repetition and trying our best to build up the communication with everyone. It doesn’t really matter who you play next to here because every one of them are capable guys who have been around who can step in there.” 
Pittsburgh cut former starting left tackle Max Starks this sum­mer and re-signed the player who started the final 12 games of last season (including play­offs) in his place, Jonathan Scott. 
Like Colon, Scott was forced to sit out the first week of camp. Then, he left Thursday’s preseason game vs. Philadelphia due to a minor knee injury — the same fate that fell his backup, second-round pick Marcus Gilbert. 
That compelled the Steelers to move Tony Hills back to left tackle after Hills had been given the start at right guard. Ramon Foster, Doug Legursky and Chris Scott also are in the running to be the starter at right guard for the season opener Sept. 11 at Baltimore. 
“We’ve shown from the years past, with the never-ending revolving door with us, that we’ve really just got to focus on the next person in line who’s going to step up so that there weren’t be any dropoff in play or capability,” said Legursky, who started the Super Bowl at center in place of an injured Pouncey. “No matter who’s in there on gameday, that’s who’s going to lead us into battle. 
“We’ve preached from Day 1 that, especially on the offensive line, position flexibility is prob­ably most valuable thing you have. And that’s why we’ll go get somebody like Trai.” 
Essex has started 25 games over his six seasons with Pittsburgh — some each at tackle and guard. He also can play some center, but he did lose his job as the starting right guard early last season. 
His contract expired, Essex said Steelers coaches weren’t shy in letting him know when they saw him at quarterback Ben Roethlisberger’s wedding last month that Essex was too overweight for them to re-sign him. 
“They see the huge difference between then and now,” Essex said this week after he agreed a one-year contract on Monday. “They know I spent some time losing weight. They’d been keeping in contact with me, but this would have never hap­pened if I didn’t take the time to lose weight in the first place.” 
Essex married this year, and his lockout was spent “living it up” between bachelor parties and honeymoons. 
Word from Steelers coaches hit home, however. 
“It made me realize that if I want to stay in this game and if I want to play, that I have to really change some habits,” Essex said. “I made some bad habits, and the lockout was bad for me. But also, this was bless­ing.” 
Having the Steelers temporar­ily turn their back on him was one thing. The phone not ring­ing from any other club was another. 
But it says just as much about Pittsburgh’s depth on the line as it does about Essex’s successful diet that he was lining up as the No. 2 left tackle in practice the day he returned to the team. 
That sounds alarming — and it probably would be, for most teams. Somehow, though, the Steelers find a way to make it work year after year. 
“It starts, first, with our coaches in the room,” Foster said. “Coach (Sean) Kugler and coach (Harold Goodwin), they do a good job of making sure everyone knows everything. They treat everyone as if you’re going to go in to play the game each week. 
“We don’t mind who’s beside us playing. We just keep it rolling with whoever’s in there.” 
The Steelers play host to the Atlanta Falcons on Saturday. 


Thursday, August 25, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 17 
MLB 



Red Sox dominate Rangers, move ahead of Yanks 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas — Texas Rangers manager Ron Washington knows it is still too early to worry about watching the standings. 
But if the defending AL cham­pions keep playing like this, they might not be in the position they want to be in mid-September. 
Matt Harrison gave up four runs in the first inning and the AL West-leading Rangers suf­fered another lopsided loss in a potential playoff preview against the Boston Red Sox, 13­2 on Wednesday night. 
“All you can do is bounce back,” Washington said. “We got beat, it wasn’t nothing we could do about it. ... You come back tomorrow and you try to put your game together.” 
The Rangers (74-57) have lost five of seven games, the latest matching their worst of the sea­son. Their last three losses have been by a combined score of 34­7 — including a 10-0 loss at the Chicago White Sox on Sunday before an 11-5 setback to the Red Sox on Tuesday night. 
“It’s not demoralizing at all,” Michael Young said. “Obviously we didn’t play our style of base­ball tonight or [Tuesday], so we’ve got to make some quick adjustments, come out tomor­row and play better.” 
There is one more game against the Red Sox before the AL West-chasing Los Angeles Angels get to town this weekend for three games. 
“Our priority is always on what we do,” Young said. “If we take care of our business, we like our chances of ending up winning the division.” 
Texas had a seven-game divi­sion lead after winning three consecutive games in Los Angeles last week, then led in the ninth inning of that series finale before the Angels got a game-ending homer. 
Los Angeles has now won six in a row, including 8-0 over the Chicago White Sox on Wednesday, to cut the division gap to 2 ½ games. Los Angeles is off Thursday. 
Mike Napoli hit his 22nd homer and had an RBI single for the only Texas runs against Boston. 
David Ortiz returned to the Boston lineup with an RBI sin­gle on the first pitch he saw in 10 days and scored twice. 
Carl Crawford, Jacoby Ellsbury and Adrian Gonzalez hit two-run homers in consecu­tive innings late off three differ­ent relievers for Boston (79-50), which moved a game up on New York after the Yankees lost 6-4 in 10 innings to Oakland. 
With 33 games left to play, the Red Sox aren’t yet too con­cerned with the standings. 
“I think there’s more signifi­cance to what food’s being served in there tonight,” man­ager Terry Francona said, motioning toward the club­house. 
Just like they did in their win a night earlier, the Red Sox jumped out to a quick 6-0 lead. 
The first of Dustin Pedroia’s two RBI singles off Matt Harrison (10-9) put Boston ahead to stay in the first. Ortiz immediately followed with his run-scoring hit and then scored from first base on Crawford’s two-run double into the right-field corner even though the relay throw beat him to the plate. 

It appeared that Napoli had the one-hop relay in his mitt, but the ball came out when the catcher swiped to tag Ortiz and the Red Sox led 4-0. 
After Ortiz had a leadoff dou­ble in the fifth, Jed Lowrie had a sacrifice bunt and Crawford a sacrifice fly. Ortiz lumbered home and clipped the back of Napoli’s leg with his flop slide just ahead of the throw. 
“He was moving today pretty good,” Washington said before chuckling. “Nothing wrong with his heel, he’s been faking it.” 


Josh Beckett (11-5) allowed one run and four hits over six innings and showed some quick reflexes to make a defensive gem by catching a comeback liner. 
Harrison gave up seven runs and 11 hits over five innings with four strikeouts and one walk. The left-hander still has a 
3.59 ERA this season, but that has risen from 2.94 in August, when he is 1-2 his five starts. 
“They just put some hits together, that’s all,” Washington said. “You’ve got to match their pitching and if you don’t match their pitching, the game can get away. And it got away from us.” 
Beckett struck out four and walked two while throwing 110 pitches. The right-hander allowed 13 earned runs in 12 innings his previous two starts against Texas, both last season. 
When Ian Kinsler hit a hard liner up the middle in the fifth, Beckett turned his head and put up his glove. 
“That ball caught me,” Beckett said. “I didn’t catch it.” 
MLB 


Giants claim Padres closer Bell off waivers 
Towers — from landing Bell. 
Associated Press 
The Giants won the claim, 
SAN FRANCISCO — San first reported by ESPN, for the Diego Padres closer Heath Bell 33-year-old Bell earlier in the has confirmed that he has day. He converted his 35th been claimed off waivers by save in 39 opportunities in the San Francisco Giants, Tuesday’s 7-5 win over San although even he is skeptical Francisco. about whether he will actually Bell admitted it would be odd end up with the defending to switch clubhouses at AT&T World Series champions. Park in the middle of a quick 
The burly right-hander said two-game series. before Wednesday night’s “It would be easy. It wouldn’t game — coincidentally at San be that far,” he said, chuck-Francisco — that he’s planning ling. “I know where the locker to “sweat my butt off” when room is. It would be a little the Padres play at Arizona on weird just because we’ve had Friday. so many battles over the 
“I feel pretty honored. years.” They’re the world champs, The Giants are beat up in the they want me to be part of bullpen, with closer Brian their organization,” Bell said. Wilson and reliever Sergio “But nothing has happened Romo on the disabled list. right now. I’m a Padre, and I’m There is no timetable for pretty happy about that. Until when Wilson will get on a something happens, there’s mound and test his inflamed really not much to talk about.” right elbow, though there’s a 
San Diego has 48 hours from chance he could return in the time Bell was claimed to early September for the decide whether to trade the stretch run. Wilson has three-time All-Star, allow him declined to discuss his injury. to be claimed or pull him back Wilson was last season’s from waivers. Giants general majors saves leader with 48, manager Brian Sabean might while Bell had 47. San also just be trying to block NL Francisco began the day two West-leading Arizona — under games back of the first-year general manager Diamondbacks in the division and former Padres GM Kevin race. 

page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, August 25, 2011 

AP Braves third baseman Chipper Jones looks on as his home run travels over the fence. The Cubs beat the Braves 3-2 Wednesday. 
MLB 


Braves waste Lowe’s gem in loss to Cubs 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Even in defeat, the Atlanta Braves’ clubhouse reverberates with confidence, as if there are greater things to focus on than one loss. 
A deep run into October, for example. 
Derek Lowe pitched seven strong innings, and Chipper Jones and Alex Gonzalez home­red, but it wasn’t enough as the Braves fell to the Chicago Cubs 3-2 on Wednesday night. 
All the damage done to Lowe (8-12) came in the second, when the Cubs batted around and scored three runs. 
Alfonso Soriano followed a leadoff walk with a two-run homer, and speedster Tony Campana reached on Dan Uggla’s fielding error and came around to score on a groundout. 
The Cubs went on to load the bases, but Lowe induced an inning-ending groundout. 
“I don’t consider that a rough inning for me,” Lowe said with a grin. “That’s damage control.” 
Other than that, Lowe was as dominant as he’s been all sea­son. He gave up four hits and four walks. Lowe struck out six and threw a season-high 119 pitches. 
“He’s gonna get the loss, but I think he deserves better,” said Braves manager Fredi Gonzalez. “You look at his linescore, and it might be one of his best starts. He was really, really good.” 
Lowe tossed seven full innings for the first time since May 17. 
“As embarrassing a stat as that may be, I’d rather be doing that now than back then,” Lowe said. “We’re winding down and you’ve got six or seven starts left, you want to finish up strong to put ourselves in a good spot. We’re still trying to catch Philly. 
“I don’t think this loss is going to stay with us very long, espe­cially the way we’ve been play­ing.” 
The Braves have won 15 of 20 and remain 6½ games behind the Phillies in the NL East. 
“Regardless of whether (Lowe) won or lost tonight, we needed him to give us innings and he did that,” said Jones. “That’s the luxury of how well we’ve played up until this point. We lose a game like this tonight, it doesn’t really bother us because we are where we are. Just file this one away and come back out tomor­row.” 
Jones’ home run chased Cubs starter Randy Wells (5-4) with two outs in the seventh, but it was just the second hit of the game for Atlanta. 
Wells held the Braves to one run and two hits over 6 2-3 innings, striking out six and improving to 4-1 in his career against Atlanta. 
“He had an outstanding changeup tonight. He made one mistake with it,” Jones said. “I thought he pitched as good ... Well, I can’t really say that, he had us no-hit in the seventh in our place, so I have seen him pitch that well. He did it to us again.” 
Wells, then a rookie, had a no-hit bid broken up by Jones with two outs in the seventh on June 2, 2009 in Atlanta. The Braves came back from a 5-0 deficit to win 6-5 in 12 innings. 
“I’m starting to feel a lot bet­ter,” Wells said. “I’m starting to command the fastball a lot bet­ter. Tonight, I had a pretty good changeup.” 
Carlos Marmol got the last three outs and joined Lee Smith as the only Cubs relievers to post consecutive 30-save seasons. 
Soriano’s two-run shot fueled Chicago’s three-run rally in the second. He also walked and was hit by a pitch. Aramis Ramirez added a single and two walks, extending his hitting streak to 13 games. 


Thursday, August 25, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 19 
NBA 



Union discusses options 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Negotiators for NBA owners and players will likely meet again next week. And the league will have to offer something different to interest the players. 
The union has been holding regional meetings, informing its members just how harsh it believes the owners’ proposal is for a new collective bargain­ing agreement. The league is seeking significant changes to the salary structure as a way to eliminate its losses, which it says totaled $300 million last season. 
Players have balked at the demands, and players’ associa­tion vice president Maurice Evans of Washington said Wednesday that when players are shown what the league wants, they are unified in their stance. 
“When we’re able to explain exactly what David Stern is asking for, it becomes so clear and evident that we cannot take this deal, and guys would be willing to not participate, to not play, if that’s the offer to us,” Evans told The Associated Press in a phone interview from Chicago, where the union was set to hold another meet­ing Thursday. 
After that, Evans said the players hope to have a bar­gaining session with the league’s negotiators next week, but that a specific day hadn’t been locked down yet. 
There has been only session that included leadership from both sides since the league locked out the players on July 1 after the expiration of the old CBA. Stern said during a pod­cast with ESPN.com earlier this month that progress needed to be made by the end of Labor Day weekend or “we may be headed to a bad place.” 
Evans said one of reasons for the regional meetings is to refute some of the things the commissioner said during that lengthy interview, which he called “very misleading.” More than 100 players have attended the three gatherings, in Los Angeles and Las Vegas last week before New York on Wednesday. Evans added they hope to schedule more in Houston and Atlanta. 
Stern blamed the players for an unwillingness to seriously bargain after a meeting on Aug. 1 and accused them of backing out of another meet­ing. Evans believes Stern has been more aggressive in his tone because the numbers don’t support the position the league says it is in after a suc­cessful 2010-11 season on and off the court. 
“He has to go to extremes to try to prove his case and nor­mally he doesn’t negotiate through the media,” Evans said. 
The league has backed off its demand for non-guaranteed contracts in a new CBA, but still wants salaries cut by more than a third among other changes. The league has pro­posed a flexible salary cap that the players contend is really a hard cap, which would replace the current system that allows teams to exceed the cap through the use of various exceptions. Evans called the elimination of the exceptions a “total slap in the face to Michael Jordan and all the great players that came before us.” 

Both sides have filed charges against the other with the National Labor Relations Board, and the league also filed a lawsuit seeking to block the union from decertifying — which it hasn’t indicated pub­licly it’s considering at this time. 
After a flurry of meetings in June before the deadline, the sides have felt they had little to talk about since. Owners quick­ly shot down the players’ final proposal, saying it would have significantly raised salaries in the sixth year of the deal, and the union has been hoping for another offer from the league that hasn’t and may not come. 
“We just want something that’s fair,” Evans said. “We don’t feel like their proposals have been in good faith at all. That’s why we filed the suit with the NLRB.” 
Despite the differences, there’s still time to make a deal without losing any of the sea­son. During the 1998-99 work stoppage that reduced the sea­son to 50 games, the league didn’t cancel the start of train­ing camps in early October until Sept. 24. Camps are scheduled to open Oct. 1 this season, with the regular sea­son set to begin on Nov. 1. 
But with no progress made since the lockout began, Evans seems to agree with Stern that something has to happen quickly. 
“If a deal’s to be made,” he said, “it’s going to have to be very soon.” 

NFL 


Collins signed, status of Manning unclear 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — The Indianapolis Colts are bring­ing one veteran quarterback out of retirement. 
No, not Brett Favre. 
The Colts agreed to terms Wednesday with Kerry Collins, making him the likely starter in case Peyton Manning hasn’t completely recovered from offseason neck surgery when the sea­son opens Sept. 11. 
Collins said he has been given no indication that Manning won’t play at Houston. 
“Hopefully, Peyton will be back, but if he’s not maybe I can be one of the guys that can help this ball club,” Collins said in a conference call with reporters Wednesday night. “The biggest draw for me coming here was just being with a team that I have a lot of respect for and a lot of histo­ry with, and really to be with a great team and play with one of greatest quarterbacks of all time.” 
Collins agreed to a one-year contract and acknowledged he could be talked into stay­ing longer than 2011. 
Not everyone in the Colts locker room is enamored with the move. 
“We don’t even know him, we ain ’t vanilla, man, we ain’t no simple offense, ” receiver Reggie Wayne said. “So for him to come in here and be the starter, I don’t see it. I think that’s a step back.” 
Colts coach Jim Caldwell wasn’t available to talk with reporters about Collins, a player he coached at Penn State, because the official announcement didn’t come until after practice. Caldwell spoke with reporters before practice. But he struck a calm tone in a statement released by the team. 
“He is a veteran quarter­back who has started many games and he brings dimen­sion and depth to the quar­terback position, which will be helpful,” Caldwell said. “He is familiar with our divi­sion and will make a great addition to our roster.” 
The move is another indica­tion that Manning’s streak of 227 consecutive starts, including playoff games, is in serious jeopardy for the first time since 2008. 
Manning had surgery May 23 to repair a nerve in his neck, and the recovery has gone slower than expected partially, Manning said, because he couldn’t work out with team trainers during the 4 ½-month lockout. 
On Saturday morning, Colts 
owner Jim Irsay wrote on Twitter that the Colts should be prepared to play without Manning in the opener against the division -rival Texans. Later that day, Manning acknowledged he did not expect to play in the final two preseason games and that he would need the next two weeks just to get healthy. 
Collins said the first call from Indy came Saturday, too. 
Caldwell hasn’t said when he expects Manning to return to the field after signing a five-year, $90 million contract to stay in Indy last month. 
“I think he laid out pretty well where he is, and that he is working extremely hard to try and get back as quickly as he possibly can,” Caldwell said Monday. “He’s going to work hard at trying to get back and get ready, and he’s doing everything he can to do so.” 
And if he’s not ready? Well, there ’s Collins, who has played in 195 career games with Tennessee, New Orleans, the New York Giants, Oakland and Carolina before retiring in July. 


page 20 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, August 25, 2011 
just going to concentrate on building on my success and 
Bayliss 
doing anything to help the 
continued from page 24 
making improvements to advance even further this season. 
“[Watt] has high expecta­tions coming into the season,” Bayliss said. “He can become even more successful if he embraces coming to the net and improves his short fore­hands.” 
The Irish also return sopho­more Greg Andrews, who will likely take the reigns at the No. 2 singles spot from the graduated Stephen Havens. Andrews, who was last sea­son’s Big East Freshman of the Year, had a successful summer, earning his first ATP point. 
Even with his recent suc­cesses, Andrews does not believe he will feel any addi­tional pressure. 
“There really is no pres­sure,” Andrews said. “I am team succeed.” 
The Irish finished as run­ners-up in last season’s Big East tournament, falling to champion Louisville. But this season, Bayliss believes there may be several teams fighting for the conference crown. 
“The Big East [champi ­onships] is at USF this season and that definitely makes them a major player,” Bayliss said. “Louisville graduated four of their top five from last season, but they have a cou­ple freshmen that should make a significant impact. I would also look for DePaul to be a contender due to their returnees.” 
Despite a more competitive landscape, Bayliss is confi­dent in his team’s ability to advance even further this season. 
Contact Walker Carey at wcarey@nd.edu 
NBA 




Parts of lawsuit against Pacers’ owner removed 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — A judge suggested Wednesday she plans to throw out key portions of a lawsuit by a nanny who claims she was fired by Indiana Pacers owner Herb Simon and his wife because she became pregnant. 
Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Amy Hogue, who planned to issue her decision Thursday, rebuffed hours of arguments by the attorney for nanny Claudia Leite, saying she didn’t believe much of the nanny’s testimony. 
“I can’t remember a case with so much impeaching testi­mony and things that didn’t make sense,” Hogue told Leite’s attorney, Joseph Davis. “It’s astounding.” 
She said she also doubted the testimony of a chauffeur who joined in the lawsuit. 
The case offered insight into the lifestyle of a super-rich family with several homes and private jet. Simon, and his wife, Bui, a former Miss Universe, have homes in California and Indiana and travel with a staff that includes nannies for their four children. His family founded the Indiana-based Simon Property Group. According to Forbes, his net worth is $1.4 billion. 
“It’s hard to infer an anti-family, anti-pregnancy animus from Mrs. Simon when her whole history has been pro-child,” said the judge. She noted that Bui Simon runs a foundation for orphans and she adopted the daughter of a sis­ter who died and raised her as her own child even before she married Simon. 
“She’s not someone who had children and abandoned them to nannies,” said the judge. “She drove them to school, fed them, put them to bed.” 
She also noted that Bui Simon had been extremely generous to Leite, who worked for the Simons for eight years. She said the Simons gave Leite $20,000 to help her mother buy a house in Brazil, gave her a used Mercedes for her per­sonal use and an $11,000 pair of diamond earrings for a birthday. 
“It’s hard for me to reconcile that with some secret spiteful animus,” said the judge who ridiculed the idea that Mrs. Simon was secretly “the Wicked Witch of the West or Cruella DeVille.” 
Attorney Joseph Davis, rep­resenting Leite and chauffeur Robert Young, said in his hours-long argument that Bui Simon tried to humiliate Leite by giving her some of her used pregnancy clothes which were too small for her. The judge said the motive wasn’t believ­able. She also rejected a com­plaint by Leite that during a trip to Indianapolis, Bui Simon refused to let her go to an emergency room when she experienced discomfort with her pregnancy. 
Instead, Leite acknowledged her employer called a friend who was an eminent neo natal doctor and sought his opinion on the phone. 
“To me what she did was reasonable and kind,” said the judge. She also noted that other employees in the Simon household testified that they were given generous maternity leaves when they became preg­nant. Instead of avoiding preg­nant employees, she said Bui Simon “continued to hire employees who had more and more children.” 
Leite was dismissed because of a screaming argument she had with another member of the household staff, the judge said, noting the incident caused the children to cry. 
“This is not IBM and comput­er scientists in a cubicle,” Hogue said. “This is a family.” 
She said Bui Simon had to act to insure calm in the house­hold. She suspended both women for a time, she said, but Leite was fired after a phone conversation in which she told her employer: “It’s your fault. You made the children cry.” The judge called it “a belliger­ent response.” 
She said, “It is undisputed that the Simons were generally delighted with her care of the children,” but by the end of the relationship, they no longer liked Leite. 


Thursday, August 25, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 21 
History 
continued from page 24 
tape and the fact that it had never happened here before,” Lee said. “But we had some real­ly good meetings with [Director of Athletics] Jack Swarbrick and the administration about doing it for charity and got it done.” 
The fight, dubbed “Fight Like a Champion,” will take place Sept. 16 at the Joyce Center, the day before the Notre Dame-Michigan State football game, with all event proceeds going toward the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation and the Robinson Community Learning Center in South Bend. 
“When I was growing up, I was fortunate to have an older kid to look up to who played ball with me and taught me how to deal with bullies,” the 2009 Notre Dame graduate said. “An older role model is a great thing to have and I thought Notre Dame-affiliated charities where the stu­dents are involved are good places to start.” 
Lee even had the opportunity to meet legendary Notre Dame football coach Ara Parseghian at a press conference announcing the fight, a point of inspiration for the rising star, he said. 
“Coach Parseghian told me that when he found out his grandchil­dren had [terminal Niemann-Pick Type C disease] they had two options: to either go into the corner or fight back and do something about it,” Lee said. “I was blown away by what he had to say. It was like being in one of his locker room pregame speech­es.” 
Meanwhile, the former O’Neill resident and University of Missouri transfer has been train­ing in Houston with renowned trainer Ronnie Shields in prepa­ration for the highly anticipated light heavyweight bout against Kansas-native Jacob Stiers (4-1, 2 KOs). 


“Ronnie is a big reason why I’m here in my career today,” Lee said. “We’ve grown to be really close. Learning from a world-champion trainer is just an incredible experience.” 
Lee, a Chicago Golden Gloves champion, is coming off a domi­nating performance in a knock­out win over Michael Birthmark in July at the Home Depot Center in Carson, Calif. Even though Lee knocked his opponent to the floor three times, Birthmark was able to counter at key opportunities in the middle of the fight, something that Shields has worked on with his protégé. 
“Ronnie and I watched tapes of the fight and even though I was able to get my overhand right working, I should have calmed down and picked my shots,” Lee, who is scheduled to fight at Madison Square Garden in December, said. 
But with his upcoming headline fight — one Lee calls the biggest of his career up to this point — the Chicago native expects an exhilarating atmosphere on a weekend that already draws over 80,000 people to campus. 
“The atmosphere is just going to be unreal right before a big game like this,” Lee said. “I just hope the students come out and support this cause. There is noth­ing like a live pro fight.” 
Tickets are available at the Notre Dame Ticket Office and at und.com/tickets, $15 for students and $30 for general admission. 

Contact Andrew Gastelum at agaste11@nd.edu 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish return strong core of upperclassmen 
By MATTHEW DEFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Following a 25th place finish at the NCAA championship meet last season, Irish men’s cross country coach Joe Piane said he expects further development and even more success in this year’s campaign. 
“The goal is always to do well in the Big East and make the NCAAs,” Piane said. 
Returning all but one of the championship meet runners, the Irish maintain a strong core to make another deep run in 2011. The status of junior Jeremy Rae, who finished 78th in the national meet last year, remains uncer­tain, however, due to an injury. 
“[Rae] is a real question mark because he’s injured,” Piane said. “We’ll see how he responds. If he comes back, and we think he will, he’ll be one of our top runners.” 
Piane said senior Jordan Carlson, junior J.P. Malette and sophomores Martin Grady and Walter Schafer would also be key contributors to the team this sea­son. Piane said he already noticed improvements in the team, despite having only had less than a week of practice this season. 
“I’ve been really pleased with [sophomore] DJ Thornton,” Piane said. “He’s looked very good so far.” 
After the spring track season ended, the team shifted their focus to cross country and changed the pace and types of their workouts. 
“We did lots of long distance in the summer in preparation for cross country,” Piane said. 
Tim Connelly, Irish women’s cross country coach, is also opti­mistic about a team that returns six of last year’s top seven run­ners. 
“Our expectations are pretty high. We’re still fairly young but we expect to be much improved,” Connelly said. “We want to be an NCAA qualifier.” 
Last fall, the Irish ended their season in Rochester, Mich., after a sixth place finish in the NCAA Great Lakes Regional. Sophomore Alexa Aragon led Notre Dame in the meet, placing 22nd and earning All-Region honors. 
“She’s one of our top runners that improved as the season went on,” Connelly said. “I was encour­aged by the improvement throughout the year.” 
This year, the Irish will host two meets at the Notre Dame Golf Course — the National Catholic Championships Sept. 16 and the Notre Dame Invitational Sept. 30. These meets, however, are not the only ones on Connelly’s mind. 
“We always look forward to the championship meets,” Connelly said. “We want to run well in the Big East [championships] and the NCAA Regional meets.” 
Both Irish squads will open the season on the road in Valparaiso, Ind., at the Crusader Invitational Sept. 2. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


Challenge 
continued from page 24 
and ACC schools, including LSU, which finished third in the 2011 NCAA tournament. 
“The challenging schedule is an indication of how far the program has come,” Holt said. “If we can com­pete with the top teams on our schedule, it will give us an indication of where we stand nationally.” 
After they play at the Indiana University Fall Invitational in mid-October, the Irish will finish the fall portion of their schedule with the Landfall Tradition. The squad concludes its reg­ular season with four addi­tional tournaments in March and April. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 

page 22 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, August 25, 2011 
film room. “I definitely feel a lot more 
Rees 
Waldrum 
comfortable. I feel a lot more continued from page 24 comfortable when it comes to 
continued from page 24 
film study,” senior running back customary for Kelly. Jonas Gray said. “I’m a lot more 

“Personally, I feel like we’re “I think it’s atypical for most comfortable with the offense, 
climbing that mountain again, coaches,” Kelly said. “I’ve feel a lot more comfortable with 
and this is just another year,” always been 60/40 because I’ve my reads, being able to read the 
Waldrum said. “We set out to get felt that you can do some teach-defense — the film study and all 
to the College Cup every year. ing with those repeated reps … that comes into play.” 
That’s the expectation we’ve set You can talk to your quarter-The increased confidence in 
for ourselves. Once we get there, back and say, ‘Take a look at it the basic offensive schemes has 
anything can happen.” now from this perspective. allowed the Irish to practice 
With the trophy in their display That’s the play you just read more situations since the build-
case and the nation’s No. 1 rank-incorrectly.’ ing blocks of the offense are 
ing before their name, Notre “I’ve always used it as a now firmly entrenched. 
Dame is a favorite to join North teaching opportunity … that’s “Coach Kelly is very situation-
Carolina this year as the only just been my style,” Kelly said. al in the way he thinks. We 
other program ever to repeat as Despite the end of the race for cover virtually every situation 
national champion. And while the starting quarterback posi-that you could think of,” Molnar 
Waldrum might be trying to keep tion, Crist and Rees continue to said. “For example, the other 
his players from living in the past, be close on and off the field. day we went through overtime. 
he does believe there are lessons “You should have seen those We went through the last play of 
to be learned from their title run two guys. They’re really great the game from the eight-yard 
that can be used this season. friends in the meeting room, in line. We worked [the two­
“We talked about it at our very the locker room, off the field,” minute offense] needing a field 
first meeting this year, that there spring and it was like any other Notre Dame will need that offensive coordinator Charley goal. We worked two-minute 
are things we want to remember year. It wasn’t notched up to same high level of play to contin-Molnar said. “Yeah, they com-needing a touchdown. We 
and things we want to forget,” another level,” he said. “This ue, as they face four top-25 oppo­peted hard, but they helped worked all the different third 
Waldrum said. “We want to for-year, we came in with a strong nents in the next three weeks. each other all day, every day. down things. We worked the 
get about winning the national attitude to try and win back-to-The most difficult tests in that They both get it. It’s all about four-minute offense. You name 
championship, but we need to back, and it showed right away. stretch will come on the road, as winning football games.” it, we worked it.” 
remember the effort that it took You’re not going to win just the Irish visit both No. 2 Stanford With the season a mere nine The coaching staff believes 
and how much work we put in as because you’re the reigning and No. 3 North Carolina. With a days away, the Irish are signifi-this will give the team an advan­
student-athletes to get there.” champ. You’ve got to earn it.” depleted lineup, Waldrum cantly more comfortable in their tage by expanding the options it 
Waldrum can also draw upon That attitude was on display expects those matches to be a offensive scheme than they has in any given situation. 
his own experience in defending over the weekend, as Notre Dame barometer for how his team can were a year ago in the midst of “We have a lot of versatility,” 
a championship. After leading opened its season with a 2-0 win handle the pressure and adversi­preparing for their first game Gray said. “It gives coach Kelly 
Notre Dame to its second NCAA over Wisconsin. That scoreline ty of a title defense. under Kelly. the ability to open up his play-
championship in 2004, the Irish was not indicative of the gap “We had a couple injuries to “We could dig a little bit deep-book and do a lot more things 
entered the 2005 season with the between the teams though, as the some of our key freshmen over er if we need to, but our guys than he did in the past.” 
pressure of a No. 1 ranking and a Irish dominated play in their sig-the summer, so we’re not as deep basically have more of the play-With the season just a week 
potential repeat. The team fal-nature aggressive, possessing as I’d like to be right now,” book than they had a year ago and a half away, preparation is 
tered after a successful regular style. Waldrum said. “We need to man-for the opener,” Molnar said. starting to give way to emotion. 
season, losing to Megan Rapinoe “We’re at a point now where age these games and get through “They’ve mastered more things “I’m just excited,” Gray said. 
and eventual champion Portland we’ve got a way we want the the next couple of weeks. Once than they did a year ago in the “I’m excited for the season to 
in the quarterfinals. game to look,” Waldrum said. we get everybody back, I think opener. Now it really is just time start.” 
However, Waldrum has already “Fans don’t want to see a 1-0 we’ll be in a good position.” for them to go and perform.” 
seen an important difference in game where you sit back. We A large part of that mastery Contact Allan Joseph at 
the two teams. want to play the same attacking Contact Jack Hefferon at involved increased time in the ajoseph2@nd.edu 
“After 2004, we came in for the soccer you see at Barcelona.” wheffero@nd.edu 



1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  
30  31  32  33  34  35  
36  37  38  
39  40  41  42  43  
44  45  46  
47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  
54  55  56  57  58  59  
60  61  62  
63  64  65  

Thursday, August 25, 2011 The Observer . TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 23 
CROSSWORD 
Across 32“The Bridge at 1 Traditional 
Narni” artist March birthstone 36 & 38 Deli 7 Three-pointers: purchase … or a Abbr. description ofthe answer to
10Hoop alternative 17-, 26-, 47- or14What might be a 55-Acrossknockout? 
39Troubled 
15Meal preceder? 40From the start 
16___ salad 43Food label abbr. 
17French writer with snaky hair 44Like some bars and a petrifying and beaches gaze? 46Green gourd, 
19Sportscaster informallyAndrews 47One trying to 
20Dissolve a shake a leg, for relationship instance? 
21Antelope of 50Seuss character southern Africa who “speaks for 
23Swerves the trees” 
26In favor of the 51Provoke first book?: Abbr. 52___ One 
28Joint custody 54Mech. whiz parties 
55Mom's special
29Rich road-trip corn 
30Ato Z, e.g. bread? 
31Unisphere, e.g. 60Put out, with “off” 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

61Australian sprinter 
62It's developedduring training season 
63Buried treasures 64Swim 65“Baby” singer
Justin 
Down 
1 Nudge2 Receiver of private letters?:Abbr. 3 ___ Barton, firstTriple Crownwinner, 1919 4 Obsolescent communication 
devices 5 Short jackets 6 Tear 7 Service that 
requires no shoes 8 Hoedown participant9 Make fast 10Common work boot feature 11 Engine type12Marriage
13Comment preceding “Gerngeschehen”
18Nada 22Bigwig23Compact Nissan
model 24Rejoice25Start of a 
children's rhyme2729-Down, down
South 29See 27-Down 31“Beat it!” 33Come to mind 
again 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
WILL SHORTZ 

Puzzle by Michael Sharp 
34City of 21/2+ 42Courtier who 491985 N.L. M.V.P. million at the invites Hamlet to Willie mouth of the fence with 50“Vive” follower 
Yodo River Laertes 
53Sharp put-down 35Fax predecessor 45Common 56“What a good
37Mewing undergrad boy ___!” passerines course of study 
57Pony players' 38Walgreens 46Zombie, parlor: Abbr. competitor essentially 
58Formerly, name­40N. African land 47Deceive wise 41Fortifies 48Hidden 59Drop the ball 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 



JEFF KNUREK
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 

Sign Up for the IAFLOFCI (OFFICIAL) Jumble Facebook fan club 
LAZWT  

 
 
 
 
 

©2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SAFHL  

 
 
 
 
 

RNWIYE  

 
 
 
 
 
 

RDAAEP  

 
 
 
 
 
 


Ans: 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: CLIMB DRAFT GOSSIP GOALIE Yesterday’s 
Answer: The Olympic runner liked to remember the — GOOD TIMES 
THE O BSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Thursday, August 25, 2011 ndsmcobserver.com | page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Bull’s-eye focus 
Irish turn attention 

t o S o u t h F l o r i d a  
By ALLAN JOSEPH  
Sports Editor  
One day after Irish coach Brian  
Kelly named senior Dayne Crist  
the starting quarterback, Notre  
Dame had already shifted its  
focus from the quarterback com­ 
petition to the quickly approach­ 
ing season.  
“We’re focused on South  
Florida. We’ve focused on some  
more situation things that we  
need to script and rehearse that  
could happen in the first game,”  
Kelly said. “It’s just a different  
focus now that the quarterback  
has been defined.”  
Though Crist was named the  
starter, sophomore quarterback  
Tommy Rees continues to see sig­ 
nificant action on the practice  
field, taking approximately 40  
percent of the snaps to Crist’s 60  
percent. While this is a higher  
number than most backups  
around the country take, such is  PAT COVENEY/The Observer  
see REES/page 22  Irish junior wide receiver Theo Riddick snares a pass during Notre Dame’s first day of fall practice Aug. 6. Wednesday marked the first day of preparation for South Florida.  

BOXING 
Lee to fight in JACC once again 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Professional boxer Mike Lee’s favorite memory of his time at Notre Dame isn’t any of the three Bengal Bouts titles he won, nor is it of the football games he attended. It is composed of those self-made subtler moments, like his icy walks to the JACC prior to his championship fights amid the buzz that centered completely on him. 
But never did Lee (6-0-0, 4 KOs) think he would return as a fighter after receiving his diplo­ma from the Mendoza School of Business — that is, until his father raised the prospect of the first ever professional fight tak­ing place at Notre Dame. 
“My dad and I had always talked about coming back [after turning pro], but never thought it would happen with all the red 
see HISTORY/page 21 
WOMEN’S GOLF 

Holt, squad look to build upon championship appearance 
and Becca Huffer along with and led the team with an 8-kids,” Holt said. “We won’t However, because the pro-
By MATT UNGER 

sophomore Kristina Nhim. over-par through four rounds need to lean on any one play-gram is so successful, it also
Sports Writer 

The squad earned a trip to of the NCAA championship. er as one through five on the schedules one of the nation’s the NCAA championship in Meanwhile, Allare averaged roster can produce.” most difficult slates. The team 
After an historic 2010-11 May, where it placed 22nd 78.3 strokes per round, while While the Irish graduated opens with the Golfweek season that culminated in the after earning a fifth place fin-Nhim posted 76.2. Nhim also two seniors and lost its lead-Conference Challenge in first NCAA championship ish in the NCAA Central placed third in the Big East ing stroke-average player in Colorado from Sept. 19 to 21, appearance for Notre Dame, Regional, held at the Warren championship with a 6-over-sophomore Nicole Zhang, the which is exclusive to Division Irish coach Susan Holt’s Golf Course. par, missing out on first place team gains freshmen Ashley I conference champions from squad is taking the steps to Of the three returning by only one stroke. Holt said Armstrong and Kelli Oride. the previous season. make an appearance an golfers, Huffer held the best Notre Dame’s consistency and “[Armstrong and Oride] pos-The Tar Heel Invitational, annual occurrence. 2010-11 stroke average with depth should play a large role sess junior golf tournament held from Oct. 7 to 9, will 
The Irish return three 74.9 strokes per round. She in the team’s fortunes this experience and are highly provide another challenge for starters from last year’s Big also placed second at the season. ranked players,” Holt said. the Irish, as it features SEC East championship squad, John Kirk/Panther “We’re returning a dedicat-“Both can make an immediate including seniors Katie Allare Intercollegiate Tournament ed and committed group of impact on our roster.” see CHALLENGE/page 21 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Waldrum preaches focus 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
It sits in a place of prominence, floating just off the ground underneath the scoreboard at Alumni Stadium. It carries mem­ories of celebrations, confetti and claiming the elusive top spot in the country. It is a sign that reads, simply and matter-of-fact­ly, “NCAA Champion 2010 Women’s Soccer,” and it will hover there all season, overlook­ing the Irish every time they run out of the tunnel, look for an open teammate or swing in a late-game corner kick. 
The challenge for Irish coach Randy Waldrum, though, will be to keep his team focused on the task ahead, and not on past suc­cesses. 
see WALDRUM/page 22 


MEN’S TENNIS 
Bayliss expects better play from starters 
By WALKER CAREY 
Sports Writer 
Following last season’s defeat in the second round of the NCAA tournament, Irish coach Bob Bayliss believes this year’s team has a chance to end the season on a more positive note. 
“Although it is early on, I believe we have a chance to get better,” Bayliss said. “We have a lot of experience and a lot of depth. We have more guys that are capable of starting than there are starting spots, and that is a good problem to have.” 
While Notre Dame returns many key contributors, Bayliss believes there are some facets of the game the team needs to continue to work on. 
“Although doubles match­es are only worth one point, that one point is a key to momentum,” Bayliss said. “Along with finishing matches, I believe our biggest improvement must be in nailing that doubles point.” 
Senior Casey Watt returns at the No. 1 singles position. Watt fell in the first round 
of last season’s NCAA Singles Championship, and Bayliss believes he can capi­talize on that experience by 
see BAYLISS/page 20 






