the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


University releases report on accident 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
The results of the University’s investigation into the death of junior Declan Sullivan show Notre Dame is “collectively respon­sible” for the October acci­dent, University President Fr. John Jenkins said in a Monday press conference at the Morris Inn. 
Sullivan, 20, died Oct. 27 after the scissor lift from which he was filming football practice fell. He was a stu­dent videographer for the football team. 
“Many individuals and departments share the col­lective responsibility for the inadequacy of the proce ­dures that led to this tragedy,” Jenkins said. “The University then is collectively responsible. Insofar as the president is responsible for the University as a whole, I am the individual who bears the greatest responsibility. I accept that responsibility.” 
Monday’s press conference marked the end of a six ­month -long investigation launched immediately fol­lowing Sullivan’s death. 
“Each individual based his decisions and actions that day on the best information at the time and in accord with the procedures that were in place,” Jenkins said about the events leading to the accident. “The proce ­dures regarding wind safety 
obviously 
did not prevent this accident and must be brought up to the more rig­

orous 
standards that we have for other weather con­ditions such as heat, humidi­ty and lightning.” 

The report gave eight rec­

ommendations 
for future action, all of which Jenkins said Notre Dame will imple­ment. 


Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves oversaw 


SMC students launch soda in LaFortune 


By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
Thanks to several entre­preneurial Saint Mary’s stu­dents, the Notre Dame cam­pus community can now quench its thirst in a man­ner befitting its affinity for the color green. 
Twist O’Luck, a soda con­cocted by senior Jeannie Michael and juniors Hannah Hupp, Lindsey Downs, Hanna Vicary and Loren Sampson as part of a class assignment, went on sale at 
see SODA/page 4 
the University’s investiga­tion. He said the investiga­tion reviewed the decision process and timeline of events on the day of the acci­dent, wind conditions, specif­ic characteristics of the lift and the culture of safety in the Notre Dame football pro­gram. 
The University will adopt the international maximum wind speed standard of 28 miles per hour to operate any lift on campus, and employees will be given real-time wind information when­ever the lifts are in opera­tion. Affleck-Graves said the University would begin using handheld devices to check wind speed. 
Other recommendations included the appointment of safety contacts in each department who would have authority over the safety of all on-field personnel and reviews of the University protocol for lift operation and use. 
“Finally, we will develop a national education safety program so that we can 
see RESULTS/page 4 

By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
With more than 250 clubs on campus to choose from, Notre Dame offers students plenty of outlets for their interests. However, most students don’t real­ize how much “behind the scenes” work it takes to start these clubs and keep them running. 
Student Programs Coordinator Mary Kate Havlik said the Student Activities Office (SAO) and the Club Coordination Council (CCC) are responsible for the approval and recognition of all 242 undergradu­ate and 58 graduate clubs at Notre Dame. 
“These groups review the prospective club’s mission and determine whether a similar group already exists,” she said. “The CCC in particular reviews the club for its organization and sus­tainability as a club in the future.” 
Havlik said prospective clubs are only reviewed twice a year by SAO, at the beginning of the fall and spring semesters. 

Students fast in solidarity 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
In a display of solidarity, many Notre Dame students will forego food, cell phones and other items they rely on today for the University’s sec­ond annual 24 Hour Fast for Haiti. 
Sponsored by Friends of the Orphans (FOTO) and the Center for Social Concerns, the event invites students to give up food or objects they depend on from 6 p.m. this evening until 5 p.m. Wednesday. 
Seniors Noelle Hilmer and Sam Russ initiated the fast last year after an earthquake struck Haiti in January of 2010. Hilmer said they intended for the fast to dis­play solidarity with the mil­lions of displaced people who had difficulty finding food. 
“This year we are not only fasting in solidarity again, but we are hopefully remem­bering that there is still a long road to recovery for the Haitians and we must not forget them,” she said. 
see HAITI/page 4 




Clubs thrive at Notre Dame 

“The approval process can take a while,” she said. “Many groups may not be approved the same semester they were proposed.” 
Havlik said prospective clubs should have a constitution with the group’s purpose, a list of offi­cers and a faculty advisor, a tenta­tive list of events with a budget and, if necessary, departmental consent. 
“For instance, if you wanted to 
see CLUBS/page 3 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Websites implement changes page 3  Coachella fashions page 8  Men’s baseball preview page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, April 19, 2011 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 


News Sports 
Sam Stryker Mike Todisco Emily Schrank Matt DeFranks Adam Llorens Jack Hefferon 
Graphics Scene 
Sofia Iturbe Maria Fernández 
Photo Viewpoint 
Mackenzie Sain Amber Galik 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD YOU PUT  N YOUR T ME CAPSULE? 






Dillon Weisner  Julie Koh  Laura Philipp  Lily Marino  Nicole Campion  Emily Holtz  
freshman  freshman  junior  freshman  sophomore  freshman  
Keenan  Breen-Phillips  Pasquerilla West  McGlinn  Welsh Family  Breen-Phillips  
“My grandma  “My fresh­ “My junior  “French fries.”  “Summer  “A list of all  
so she lives forever.”  man year of college.”  year.”  vacation.”  the majors I’ve considered.”  


JAMES DOAN/The Observer The Women’s Rugby team poses after their victory in San Diego this past weekend. They advance to the final four, which will be held in Pittsburgh April 30. 
OFFBEAT 
The appearance of justice 
Netherlands — Hair today, gone tomorrow. 
A judge has asked lawyers to shed their wigs next time they appear before her at the International Criminal Court. 
A handful of attorneys appeared Monday in tra­ditional black gowns and white horsehair wigs for a preliminary hearing in a case dealing with vio­lence after Kenya’s dis­puted 2007 presidential election. 
Justice Ekaterina Trendafilova paused briefly at the end of the hearing to pass a hair-raising judgment. 
“This is not the dress code of this institution,” she said. 
“In this quite warm weather maybe it will be more convenient to be without wigs,” she added with a smile. 
It is unusual for lawyers to appear at the International Criminal Court in wigs, but not unheard of. At least three lawyers wore wigs during the initial appearance of three Kenyan suspects on April 8, without Justice Trendafilova issuing any dress code guidelines. 
Arizona man uses dog-like tactics 
PHOENIX — A 33-year­
old man who bit back after he was caught by a Phoenix police dog is suing police. 
Erin Sullivan alleges the dog violated his civil rights and used excessive force to capture him after he ran from officers in Glendale during a burgla­ry investigation last year. 
Police say Sullivan bit the dog back, injuring it. 
The lawsuit names the cities of Phoenix and Glendale and four offi­cers. 
Precursor filings to the lawsuit sought $200,000 from Glendale and $250,000 from Phoenix. 
Officials in Glendale and Phoenix have declined comment. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight wednesday thursday 






Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
Stanford University pro ­fessor Pete Klenow will be offering a lecture entitled “Beyond GDP? Welfare Across Countries and Time” this afternoon from 12:30 to 2 p.m. at the Hesburgh Center, Room C103. 
RecSports is offering free body composition and blood pressure testing this after­noon from 4 to 5 p.m. in the RSRC Wellness Room . Registration is avaliable through RecRegister. 
Montana State University professor Mary Cloninger is holding a seminar entitled “Using Glycodendrimers to Arbitrate Galectin Mediated Cancer Cellular Interactions” this afternoon from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m. at 129 Debartolo Hall. 
The Reilly Center and the History of Science Society’s Executive Office are pre ­senting a play titled “Let Newton Be!” The play will feature three actors por ­traying Isaac Newton during three stages of his life on stage at the same time. Tickets for students are free and are available at the Box Office in the west lobby of LaFortune. The perform ­ance will be held this evening from 7 to 9 p.m. at Washington Hall. 
There will be a campus-wide Stations of the Cross this evening from 9 to 11 
p.m. The procession departs from the Grotto. Opportunity for individual confessions follows Stations in the Basilica at 10:15 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section 
of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
friday saturday 


Tuesday, April 19, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Professional boxer 


Websites implement changes 

By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
Changes will soon be implemented to the University of Notre Dame home page and insideND to improve structure and navi­gability, Jane Morrow, enterprise web content spe­cialist for the Office of Public Relations, said. 
Improving the login page is a main goal of the changes, Morrow said. 
“We ’re looking to give people additional informa­tion on that page to make it a little bit easier for [users] to find resources that they ’re looking for, ” she said. 
Morrow said information on the website will remain similar, but organization will be adjusted. 
“The carousel causes a lot of users difficulty,” she said. “We’re going to replace that whole area and improve the way the information archi­tecture is delivered so that people can access the infor­mation a lot faster, simpler and easier.” 
Aesthetic changes are also planned, Morrow said. 
“The design is going to be adjusted a little bit to improve the look and feel,” Morrow said. “The biggest debate right now is having to do with color. We still haven’t gotten a decision on that.” 

The Office of Public Relations, Agency ND and 
the Office of Information Technology are gathering feed­back from stu­dents, faculty and staff regarding changes to insideND through focus groups, Morrow said. 
No formal decisions will be made until all feedback has been 
recorded, but Morrow said she is already noticing trends in responses. 
“Students are pretty happy with the content that’s [on insideND],” Morrow said. “I think it’s going to be reor­ganized a little bit, and a couple of resources that were not on there are prob­ably going to be added because students requested them.” 
Morrow said the Office of 


speaks at Saint Mary’s 
By JULIA HARRIS 
News Writer 
Professional boxer and championship title winner Eva Jones -Young said she wanted a fresh start when she entered the boxing ring at the age of 32 following a successful international 
martial arts and karate career. 
“I needed a new challenge,” J o n e s -Yo u n g said, “But as soon as I start-
SOFIA ITURBE I Observer Graphic 
ed boxing, peo­ple were saying Public Relations consulted 
that women prospective students, in 
shouldn ’t be addition to current students, 
boxers.” faculty and staff regarding 
J ones -Youn g , 
changes to the University’s 
who was raised in South 
home page. 
Bend, visited Saint Mary’s 
“We’re also talking to high 
College Monday to speak 
school students to find out 
about her experience as a 
“We’re also talking to high school 
students to find out how they are searching forUniversityinformation.” 
Jane Morrow enterprise web content specialist 
how they are 
professional female athlete, 
searching for 
mother and small business 
University 
owner. 
information,” 
The Cross Currents 
she said. 
Program, the 
“We’re 
Center for 
including just 
Women’s 
about every -
Intercultural 
boxing career requiring five to six hours of daily inten­sive training, Jones-Young said she was able to spend time with her daughter. She said she also created a small business washing windows for households, grocery stores and build ­ings in the South Bend area. “I would be standing on 
“But as soon as I 
started boxing,people were saying that women shouldn’t be boxers.” 
Eva Jones- Young 
professional boxer 
40 foot lad ­ders with five gallon buck ­ets of water and 140 ­pound motors,” Jones -Young said. “Nobody 
once told me that women shouldn ’t be doing that.” 
Jones-
Young, whose fights have been featured on ESPN and pay-per view, brought her three world championship belts and boxing gloves for students to try on. She said competition and practice was something she always 
enjoyed. 
“I trained a 
lot, and I 
mean a lot. 
body we can 
Leadership and “I trained a lot, There were 
think of.” 
the Department and I mean a lot. lots of sit ­
Morrow said 
of Anthropology There were lots of ups, push ­
she hopes the 
cosponsored sit-ups, push-ups, ups, running 
changes to 
“Inside the running and drills. I and drills. I 
insideND and 
Ropes with Eva never got scared or never got 
the University 
Jones -Young, ” nervous.” scared or 
of Notre 
which was held nervous,” 
Dame home 
in Spes Unica Eva Jones-Young Jones -Young 
page will be 
Hall. professional boxer said. “I 
a l w a y s  h a d  
fun.”  
J  o n  e  s  - 
Yo u n g  s a i d  S a i n t  M a r y ’s  
students  can  attain  success  

if they have faith in them­selves. 
“As women, we can do anything we put our mind to,” Jones-Young said, “I’m a firm believer in that.” 
Contact Julia Harris at jharri01@saintmarys.edu 

Clubs 
continued from page 1 
start an athletic club, you might need the approval of RecSports,” she said. 
If an undergraduate group is approved through the prospective club approval process, their first year is probationary, Havlik said. 
“During that year, the club must meet certain CCC guidelines in order to receive full recognition by SAO,” she said. “They set a mini­mum number of events for an undergraduate club to accomplish in the probationary year.” 
Every year, several groups decide they do not have enough interest and choose to become inactive and disband, Havlik said. 
Prospective clubs must have at least four officers, but there is no minimum number of members they need to have, Havlik said. 
Havlik added that student groups work best when they main­tain a strong presence at Notre Dame. 
“After that first year, there is no minimum number of events, but all clubs are encouraged to remain active and visible on campus,” she said. 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 
as successful as those made to the Notre Dame Events Calendar website this year. 
“Traffic to that site has really increased because the site offers so many calen­daring options. It’s so much easier for people to use than the old one,” she said. “A lot more people are using it and publishing to it.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at 

vroeck@nd.edu 
Jones -Young said despite the criticism, she was able to win three world championship titles, two within the first six rounds. 
“I was told that I would never play in a champi ­
onship because I wasn ’t blonde hair, blue eyed,” she said. “But I thought to myself, I’m gonna keep fighting until I do.” 
In addition to a full-time 



page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 19, 2011 
employees. the internal review with the the staff checked the weather (IOSHA) after the state found “The lessons we learn here help of Jon Peterka, a leading online eight times throughout Notre Dame guilty of six safe-



Results 

go to the whole University, expert on wind-engineering the day, Affleck-Graves said, ty violations related to the continued from page 1 and in my case the entire applications and research, but the wind speed did not accident. The fines from the 
Athletics Department,” and David Merrifield, a safety exceed 35 miles per hour at citations total $77,500. share with others the lessons Swarbrick said. “The first consultant with expertise on the staff ’s last weather “What I intend to do is we have learned from this part is a clearer delineation aerial lift platforms. update before practice began. devote all my energy and all tragic accident, ” Affleck -of personal responsibility “The report concludes the “The report highlights that my efforts to enhancing the Graves said. “We will work from program to program.” following factors led to the as the primary weakness in safety on campus, as well as with others such as [the Affleck-Graves accident: a our procedures, ” he said. beyond Notre Dame, with Indiana Occupational Safety said the investi-sudden and “The lack of wind measuring regard to aerial lifts,” and Health Association gation included extraordinary on the field during the prac-Jenkins said. “That’s my (IOSHA)], the NCAA and the e x t e n s i v e 53 mile -per-tice and the absence of any focus.” 
“The lessons we 

Collegiate Sports Video research collect-hour gust of single individual with respon-After the state released its 
learn here go to the 

Association in this education ed over the wind; staff sibility for monitoring wind.” report March 15, the 
whole University, 

effort.” months follow -members’ lack Peter Likins, president University filed a Notice of 
and in my case the 

The University installed a ing the October of knowledge emeritus of the University of Contest on April 7 to continue 
entire Athletics 

remote video system at its accident. r e g a r d i n g Arizona, conducted an inde-talks with IOSHA. 
Department.” 

football practice fields before “This report wind speeds pendent review of the investi-“Nothing we can do can spring practice began March provides a thor-Jack Swarbrick on the field gation. He did not receive restore Declan to his family 23 and will no longer use ough account of during the compensation for his work. and to his community,” 
Director of Athletics

scissor lifts to film football what happened, practice; the “I do want to say as clearly Jenkins said. “But the most practice. Notre Dame will including details characteristics as I can that I affirm my important way to memorial-continue to use lifts for other of the tests and of Declan’s lift, belief in the integrity of the ize Declan is to do all we can purposes, Affleck -Graves analysis per -which was process and the quality of the to understand the factors that said. formed by the experts, inter-lighter than the other two conclusions and the recom-led to his death and to take 
Director of Athletics Jack views with over 50 individu-lifts, making it more suscepti-mendations,” Likins said. steps to prevent such an acci-Swarbrick said his depart-als, forensic examinations of ble to tipping; and the height Jenkins said the University dent from happening at Notre ment is outlining more the computers of personnel in of the lift, which at 40 feet would continue its conversa-Dame or anywhere else.” detailed practice safety the Athletic Department,” made it more susceptible to tions with the Indiana guidelines for each sport and Affleck-Graves said. tipping,” Affleck-Graves said. Occupational Safety and Contact Megan Doyle at will more thoroughly train its The University conducted The investigation showed Health Administration mdoyle11@nd.edu 


Haiti 
continued from page 1 
The fast begins this evening in Geddes Hall Chapel with a 6 p.m. prayer service reflecting on the meaning of fasting. It ends with 5 p.m. Mass tomorrow in Dillon Hall Chapel, fol ­lowed by an Italian dinner in the Coleman -Morse Center. 
“Throughout the 24 hours, partici­pants will receive ‘spiri ­

“By spending a day 
tual meals’ – a aid, she said. midnight fasting, especially “By fasting, snack, morn -during Holy Week, students rec ­
we are reminded 
ing meal and ognize that 
indeed of those who 
afternoon food there is still 
have less than us.” 
for thought, ” much to be Hilmer said. done in Haiti 
Caitlin Nichols
“All are reflec-and they have tions based on senior not forgotten 
year. 
“While I was there I was able to see how donations are used and what a great organization it is,” she said. “By donating to this Fast for Haiti you are guaran ­teed that your money will be put to good use.” 
Hilmer said the event highlights ongoing struggles in Haiti. While people are eager to assist a country immediately after disaster strikes, it is in the coming months when media cover­age dies down that the coun­try truly needs 
quotes, prayers and inspirational excerpts that three differ­ent fast participants have been asked to write out.” 
In addition to displaying support, participants are encouraged to request donations to benefit the Nuestros Pequenos Hermanos (NPH) orphanage in Haiti. If students choose not to fast, they are encour­aged to support their peers with prayers or donations. 
FOTO sends students to an NPH orphanage in Honduras over school breaks. Senior Caitlin Nichols traveled to the NPH orphanage in Honduras this that, ” Hilmer 
said. “By 
requesting support through a donation letter, they are asking oth­ers not to forget our Haiti brothers and sisters either.” 
Nichols said the fast has special meaning during the week leading up to Easter. 
“By spending a day fast­ing, especially during Holy Week, we are reminded of those who have less than us,” she said. “Living in sol­idarity with others is a great way to raise aware­ness about their living cir­cumstances.” 
Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 


Soda 
continued from page 1 
the Huddle and Sbarro in the LaFortune Student Center April 12. 
The group put a lot of effort into launching the creation and got Northwood Soda in Williamsburg, Mich., to bottle the citrus -flavored beverage, Hupp said. Glass bottles of the drink feature black labels with “Twist O’ Luck” written in green let­tering. 
“Twist O’ Luck began as a class product for the Business New Venture course, ” she said. “We came up with the idea over Facebook page with con ­tests. 
The green drink has already gained popularity at Saint Mary’s. Since the 
soda ’s intro ­duction Jan. 26, Hupp said the campus has sold around four cases per week. She said Notre Dame initially bought four cases of the soda and sold out within 24 hours. 
“Since we designed the soda to be a novelty for the local communi­ty, Notre Dame 
the summer and spent much of the first semester creating the formula, designing the labels and writing our business plan.” 
Michael said market­ing to the South Bend community is critical to the b e v e r a g e ’s success. The inventors of attended the was an obvi ­
ous location that we hoped to be able to 
“We are excited for sell Twist O’ 
all of the Luck, ” Hupp opportunities for said. students and the Hupp said 
community that she antici ­having Twist O’ Luck pates the at Notre Dame will product will bring.” be popular at 
Notre Dame. Jeannie Michael “We hope to senior bring every ­
one a little ‘twist o’ luck, ’” she said. 
the drink Michael said the group is South Bend excited for the long -term 
Women’s Expo to promote future of the product at the sales and consistently University. update the Twist O’ Luck “We are excited for all of 
“We came up with 
know that 
the idea over the 
future
summer and spent 
Domers
much of the first 
would enjoy 
semester creating 
and have fun 
the formula, 
drinking a
designing the lables 
Twist O’ 
and writing our 
Luck at tail-
business plan.” 
gates as they cheer 
Hannah Hupp 
on the 
junior 
Fighting 
the opportunities for stu­dents and the community that having Twist O’ Luck at Notre Dame will bring,” she said. “Market research has shown that kids love Twist O’ Luck. We 
Irish.” 
Notre 
Dame sopho­more Trenton Jackson said Twist O’ Luck is “absolute­ly delicious.” 
“I tried it, then proceed­ed to buy fifteen of them,” he said. “I believe that supporting local business is very important.” 
Junior Alex West said his group of friends was sur­prised Twist O’ Luck was invented by students. 
“We were sitting around drinking [the soda] and wondering how this could have possibly been made by a student,” he said. “It was like if winning could be turned into a bever ­age…I would definitely buy it again and again.” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 


Tuesday, April 19, 2011 The Observer . NEWS page 5 
Arizona governor 

Group discusses green eating 
vetoes ‘birther’ bill 

By KATIE CARLISLE  about the ethical consequences of what she ate. She said  worked hard to diversicrops and free them of  fy her chemi- 
News Writer  becoming more conscious of  cals, said her produce  is  Associated Press  
what she ate was the first step  organically certified. Sh e said  
A discussion of the benefits  toward an organic lifestyle.  it is a challenge to do  so, as  PHOENIX — Arizona Gov.  
of local and organic farming  “I began to think of eating as  pesticides often conta minate  J a n B r e w e r o n M o n d a y  
and the impact of food choices  a moral issue,” Zwart said. “I  the water supply.  v e t o e d a b i l l t h a t w o u l d  
on the environment titled  don’t want to hurt  Aguirre said  h a v e r e q u i r e d P r e s i d e n t  
“Food Justice and  things, but more  reducing  the  Barack Obama and other  
Sustainability Discussion”  than that I need  p e r s  o n a l  presidential candidates to  
brought together Saint Mary’s  to realize all the “Just v impact  on the  prove their U.S. citizenship  
faculty, students and local  ways I’m already  isiting the e n v i r o n  m e n t  before their names could  
farmers Monday in Spes Unica  [South Bend]hurting things.” Farmer’s Market  may  seem  appear on the state’s ballot.  
Hall.  Local farmer  daunting , but it  The bill would have made  
Monica Aguirre, president of  and Mary Kulwicki  eatingcan and  be  Arizona the first state to  
Saint Mary’s Environmental  organisaid she convert­ cally achieved with it doesn’t  pass such a requirement.  
Action Coalition (SMEAC), said  locally — ed to organic eat-take a l simple,  every- Opponents had warned the  
the group sponsored the talk in  ing after discover­ ot and you day choiwith small  ces.  b i l l w o u l d g i v e a n o t h e r  
order to educate the campus  can start ing the impact of st “Just visiting  black eye to Arizona after  
about the ecological impact of  agriculture on the  eps.” the [ South  last year’s controversy over  
dining decisions.  environment.  Bend] Farmers  the state’s illegal immigra­ 
“We’ve been learning a lot  Monica Aguirre “ R a c h e l  Market  and  tion enforcement law.  
about how important our food  Carson’s book  SMEAC eating organi- Brewer said in her veto  
choices are and how much  ‘Silent Spring’  cally and local- letter that she was troubled  
they affect the environment,”  had the biggest  ly — it doesn’t  t h a t t h e b i l l e m p o w e r e d  
she said. “But we’re learning  impact on my  take a lot and  Arizona’s secretary of state  
that we have control over  decision,” she said. “I read it  you can start with  small  to judge the qualifications  
these decisions as well.  when farming was just another  steps,” she said.  of all candidates when they  
Megan Zwart, professor of  way man could dominate over  file to run for office.  
philosophy, said she committed  nature.”  Contact Katie Carlisle at  “I do not support desig­ 
to veganism after thinking  Kulwicki, who said she has  kcarli02@saintmarys.edu  nating one person as the  


gatekeeper to the ballot for a candidate, which could lead to arbitrary or politi­cally motivated decisions,” said Brewer, who was sec­retary of state until she became governor in 2009. 
“In addition, I never imagined being presented with a bill that could require candidates for president of the greatest and most powerful nation 
on 
Earth to submit their ‘early baptismal circumci­sion certificates ’ among 

other 
records to the Arizona secretary of state,” she said. “This is a bridge too far.” 


The certificates were among the documents a candidate could have sub­mitted under the bill in place of a birth certificate. 
So-called “birthers” claim there’s no proof Obama was born in the United States, and he is therefore ineligi­ble to be president. But Hawaii officials have certi­fied Obama was born in that state. 
The U.S. Constitution requires that presidential candidates be “natural ­born” U.S. citizens, be at least 35 years old, and be a resident of the United States for at least 14 years. Opponents questioned whether Arizona ’s bill would have added addition­al requirements. 
The measure would have required that political par­ties and presidential candi­dates hand in affidavits stating a candidate’s citi­zenship and age. It also would have required the candidate’s birth certificate and a sworn statement say­ing where the candidate has lived for 14 years. 
If candidates didn’t have a copy of their birth certifi­cates, they could meet the requirement by providing baptismal or circumcision certificates, hospital birth records and other docu ­ments. 
If it couldn ’t be deter ­mined whether candidates who provided documents in place of their birth certifi­cates were eligible to appear on the ballot, the secretary of state would have been able to set up a committee to help deter­mine whether the require­ments were met. The names of candidates could be kept off the ballot if the secretary of state didn ’t believe the candidates met the citizenship require ­ment. 
The bill didn’t explicitly provide an appeals process for a candidate whose name was kept off the ballot. 
The bill ’s sponsor, Republican Rep. Carl Seel of Phoenix, said he was dis­appointed by the veto. It would have been reason­able to have the secretary of state — the state’s top election officer — decide whether a candidate had adequately documented his 
or her qualifications, he said. 
Because the bill would have required candidates for all offices to submit doc­umentation of their qualifi­cations, he said, “it would have been excellent reform.” 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 6 Tuesday, April 19, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Accuweather? 
Two years ago, as I began to visit and apply to different universities that could potentially become my second home for the next four years of my life, I did not have any particular preference as to 
where I truly want­ed to go. 
However, all of the universities I applied to had to comply with one small con­dition. Believe it or not, I wanted my dream school to be located some­


where where I Maria Fernandez could experi­ence the change Scene Writer of seasons throughout the year. 
Living in a never-ending and sometimes unbearable humid and hot climate my whole life, I had never experienced a change in seasons. Therefore, I wanted my college years to ideally include 2 or 3 months of warm weather, a period of cool and breezy temperatures where I could see the leaves in the trees change colors, some months of cold and snow and, final­ly, some months of mild spring weather. 
Besides enriching and contributing to my first two college years in many incredible ways, Notre Dame has also ful­filled this particular climate requirement. Nevertheless, this weather prerequisite of mine turned out to be very different from what I had expected and brought along with it a bothersome dependency of which I was at first completely unaware of. 
From the moment I arrived at Notre Dame, my wardrobe and mood relied on the daily imprecise and varying informa­tion provided by accuweather.com and many other weather forecasting websites. This dependency has drastically increased this spring semester. 
Last year, the winter season was rela­tively good. It began late in October and ended in early March. For someone who had never experienced extremely cold temperatures, it seemed perfect! But this spring semester has been a whole differ­ent story, characterized by irregular and unpredictable temperature changes that not even accuweather can predict. 
Last week accuweather got it right, indicating that spring had finally arrived with sunny and mild 60 degree tempera­tures. Consequently, I saw a significant change in my overall mood and clothing selection. I felt happy and wore less lay­ers and a lot of color. 
Yet, this past weekend, as I got a glimpse of the weather forecast for the upcoming week, disappointment and frustration quickly kicked in. The website indicated a week of snow, wind and 30 degree temperatures! Could this really be true? Thirty degree weather meant wear­ing my parka, boots, sweaters and scarves all over again. This would com­pletely alter my previously happy and col­orful spring mood. 
So, after internalizing this unbelievable April climate, I invite all of you who are dissatisfied with the weather to follow my new plan. I have given up and decided I will not rely on weather forecasting web­sites anymore, nor will I look outside the window every morning in order to choose what to wear. Weather will not affect my mood from now until the end of the semester. I will wear whatever I feel like wearing, as if I lived in a place with a constant and unchanging climate. Maybe the predictable and unbearable hot Caribbean weather is not that bad after all. 
Maria Fernandez can be reached at mfernan5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
How green is your Notre Dame experience? 
Inspired by Bradley McDonald’s “How interesting is your Notre Dame experi­ence?” (March 25), I have devised my own highly sophisticated scoring mechanism for rating how “green” you’ve been during your time at Notre 
The GreenMan 
Dame thus far. From personal experience, I can assure you that it’s entirely possible to score well on both of these tests. Hopefully my column on green alcohol proved once and for all that fun and the environment are not mutually exclusive. Since excelling at everything is our lifeblood as Notre Dame students, I challenge you to adopt any of the green behaviors below that you haven’t already. 
Food: 
u Joined the “clean plate club” during Waste-Free Week/Waste-Free Wednesday [5 points per raffle entry] 
u Eaten vegetarian on a day other than a Lenten Friday [5 points, 15 points if you’re a committed vegetarian] 
u Tried Greenfield’s new menu [5 points] 
u Been to the South Bend Farmer’s Market [5 points per visit] 
u Purchased fresh produce from the Purple Porch Co-op [15 points] 
Transportation: 
u Owned a bike [5 points] 
u Had a Zipcar membership [10 points] 
u Taken Transpo to/from a bar [5 points] 
u Taken Transpo anytime other than to/from a bar [10 points] 
u Carpooled home for a break with 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
someone you’d never met before [5 points] 
Water: 
u Owned a water-filtering pitcher [5 points] 
u Regularly used a reusable water bot­tle [5 points, 10 if you got it from the Office of Sustainability] 
u Combined loads of laundry with a roommate to make a full load [5 points] 
u Used a timer to limit shower time to 4 minutes [10 points] 
Energy: 
u Owned Energy Star appliances (TV, mini-fridge, etc) [5 points per appliance] 
u Unplugged all appliances over breaks [15 points] 
u Used only CFL bulbs [10 points] 
u Participated in Earth Hour [5 points, ­5 if you don’t know what Earth Hour is] 
u Lived in a hall that won the dorm energy competition (Knott, Cavanaugh, Walsh) [5 points] 
Waste: 
u Donated to Old 2 Gold [5 points per year] 
u Owned a reusable coffee mug [5 points] 
u Regularly used a reusable grab’n’go bag [10 points] 
u Recycled more than you threw away in your dorm room [10 points] 
Miscellaneous: 
u Joined the GreeND listserv [5 points] 
u Actually attended a GreeND or SEA meeting [10 points] 
u Gone on a sustainability-related CSC break trip [10 points] 
u Been to the roof of Stinson-Remick to see the solar panels [10 points] 
u “Liked” the Office of Sustainability’s Facebook page [5 points] 
u Taken a tour of the power plant [10 points] 
u Majored in Environmental Science or Geosciences [20 points] 
“Brown” Points: 
u Asked a professor to add money to your print quota [-1 point per dollar added] 
u Always took a brown paper bag from grab’n’go [-5 points] 
u Driven to Eddy Street [-10 points] 
u Participated in Double Impact Week [­25 points] 
Fewer than 50 points: Really? Stop killing the planet! 
50-150 points: Decent. You’re trying, but could make more of an effort to be green. Boost your score by visiting the Farmer’s Market or donating your stuff to Old 2 Gold this year. 
150-200 points: Awesome! You’re rock­ing some very green choices – keep it up! 
250+ points: You are 100% bona-fide hippie. Which really raises one question: why did you come to school here? 
The GreenMan is an anonymous eco-conscious observer of life at Notre Dame, providing environmental commentary and advice to the campus community since 2010. Feel free to email your environmental living questions to the GreenMan at askthegreenman@gmail.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“College isn’t the place to go forideas.” 
Helen Keller 
U.S. blind & deaf educator 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The brain is a wonderful organ. Itstarts working the moment you getup in the morning and does not stopuntil you get into the office.” 
Robert Frost 
U.S. poet 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Tuesday, April 19, 2011 page 7 
Carbon tax: the reasonable solution 
Growing unrest in the Middle East has resulted in a more than 60 cent jump in 
U.S. fuel prices in a two month time peri­od. Rising fuel prices are threatening recovery from the recession just as job numbers and economic indicators are 
showing real signs of improvement. Why does the United States continue to tol­erate economic reliance on foreign oil from volatile Middle Eastern countries? The answer is 


fear among leg-

Chris Rhodenbaugh 
islators that any policy solution responsible for In Pursuit of a short-term Social Justice increase in energy prices will destroy a political career. This political cowardice is already resulting in drastic increases in energy prices by making the well-being of U.S. citizens and the health of the economy liable to foreign govern­ments. Political inaction is resulting in the worst-case scenario. Costs are increasing for non-renewable energy sources while the US is falling behind the rest of the world in developing renewable technology. 
A carbon tax is the most transparent, feasible and efficient strategy to make the United States a leader in the international green economy, reduce dependence on foreign oil and address the crisis of global warming. Even the most ardent free-mar­ket proponent would be challenged to argue that the problem of global warming will be solved without some government intervention. Pollution is an economic externality, meaning the entity profiting from the polluting activity is not fully absorbing the external costs of pollution on society in the price of the good or serv­ice. Therefore, the key is this: a policy solution to force energy suppliers to inter­nalize pollution costs that have the small­est possible negative impact, while creat­ing the most effective incentive for innova­tion or behavior change to reduce pollu­tion. 
Republicans and conservative business advocates have consistently called for more certainty and simplicity in the U.S. tax code. A carbon tax prices carbon in an exact manner, by levying a fee on carbon emissions per metric ton. In contrast to the open-ended pricing mechanism of a cap-and-trade system, the proposal that failed to pass Congress last year, a carbon tax will provide certainty in the market that will best allow all stakeholders to pre­pare for additional costs 
Concomitantly, the IRS is equipped to implement the tax, significantly reducing the need for additional bureaucracy to manage a more convoluted federal solu­tion. 
The implementation of a carbon tax would ignite a wave of innovation by mak-
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Taxing the richest 
Ryan Williams (April 14, “Who wants to tax a millionaire?”) makes a series of undocumented assertions more suited to talk radio than to these pages. 
He cites Hauser’s “Law” to assert that federal revenues are always about 19.5 percent of GDP, regardless of the top rate of income tax, which is therefore irrelevant to fiscal deficits. The proportion was over 20 percent in 2000. It has been under 15 percent in 2009 and 2010. Five percent of GDP is about $750 bil­lion. 
He denounces the top level of federal income tax, currently at 35 percent, as unfair and asserts that any increase would stifle innovation. At no time between 1932 and 1982 was the top rate below 70 percent. Did that stifle innovation? 
He notes that the top 1 percent of earners pay about 25 percent of all federal income tax revenues. He does not note that the income of this 1 percent is over 20 percent of all incomes. The proportion received by the top 1 percent has more than doubled over the last 30 years. That of the bottom 90 percent has declined. That of the bottom 25 percent has declined by over 30 percent. 
He also omits to mention the difference between marginal and effective tax rates. According to the IRS, the 400 most affluent households had an average income of $345 million in 2007. They paid out 17 percent of this in tax. 
He insists that it is the rich who create jobs. Despite all the tax cuts, there was less than a tenth of 1 percent of additional jobs created during the eight years of President G. W. Bush. It is not private investment decisions but market conditions that lead to job creation. 
Opposition to progressive rates of taxation should be argued honestly, on ideological grounds. Mr Williams cries that the wealthy should not have to support “freeloading Americans.” Traditionally used against African-Americans, this argument now targets the millions of unemployed, poor children, the sick and the elderly. Citizenship and mutual support are gutted on behalf of plutocracy. 
Why should bankers care about the health, housing and educa­tion of the poor? Even if morality is rejected, mere prudence might suggest some answers. 
David Harley 
Faculty, History Department Apr. 17 


ing renewable technology and energy effi­cient decisions cheaper, or price competi­tive, to their environmentally unfriendly alternatives. Yet, for the tax to be success­ful in promoting innovation without induc­ing economic contraction, a carbon tax must include a variety of stipulations to minimize negative impact on U.S. busi­nesses and low income families. Implementation must occur on a lengthy timeline that includes a two year grace period for companies and families to increase energy efficiency or transition to renewable power sources in advance of increased costs. Also, the tax should be set to increase at defined intervals over a long period of time to account for increasing feasibility of improving energy efficiency as technology develops. 
To make the carbon tax politically feasi­ble the implementation should specify unequivocally that all revenues will go towards reducing the U.S. corporate income tax and providing a payroll tax rebate and equivalent social security rebate to help offset the increasing energy costs that will be faced by businesses, low income families and seniors. According to the Cato Institute, the U.S. has the highest corporate income tax in the world at 40 percent. The high tax rate is pushing away investment from the U.S. and is an unrea­sonable burden on U.S. companies trying to compete in the global economy. A car­bon tax, coupled with a significant decrease in the corporate tax rate, would not only lead to the expansion of the green economy, but drastically stimulate busi­ness growth across every sector. If the tax is implemented, inevitably technology will improve, making renewable energy options increasingly affordable. With lower energy costs, payroll tax and social security rebates will become long-term tax relief for low income families and seniors, without affecting the reduction in the cor­porate income tax. 
Current legislative proposals for a car­bon tax that vary in the size of the carbon tax, project between $69 billion and $126 billion in tax revenues in 2015, and between $263 billion and $361 billion rev­enues in 2030, in 2005 dollars. To put that in perspective, the federal government in 2005 earned $771 billion in tax revenue from payroll taxes and $307 billion from corporate income taxes. 
A carbon tax, if proposed correctly, can unite interest groups across the political spectrum in support of a major step for­ward in environmental policy and ending dependence on foreign oil. What are we waiting for? 
Chris Rhodenbaugh is a senior political science major and editor of LeftysLastCry.com, Notre Dame’s Progressive Headquarters. He can be con­tacted at crhodenb@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.. 
UWIRE 
‘Amazon tax’ is blatantly unconstitutional 
With the highest public debt per capita in the nation, Connecticut’s bleak fiscal outlook is causing the legislature to grasp for tax policies that require out-of-state online retailers to collect sales tax on transactions with Connecticut residents. The tax scheme, which potentially affects dozens of online retail-Thomas Dilling ers, is better known as the “Amazon tax” after its largest The Daily target, Amazon.com. The Campus Amazon tax is blatantly unconstitutional and is bad news for Connecticut’s online shoppers, especially stu­dents, causing Amazon to decrease its ties with Connecticut contractors. 
The Amazon tax is pushed under the premise that it will “close a loophole” in Connecticut’s tax collection, making it easier for the state to collect sales taxes on online transactions it claims to be entitled to. This argument isn’t new to the internet age; it has been argued for decades against mail-order companies who operate out-of-state, but advertise and distribute catalogues to in-state residents. The reason why mail-order companies don’t collect sales tax is because forcing them to do so has been decided by the Supreme Court to be unconstitutional in Quill Corp. v. North Dakota. The ruling is intelligible: interstate commerce is a federal matter, not a state matter. 
Amazon and other internet retailers like it are the quintessential mail-order companies of our age, and the Constitution equally protects Amazon as it pro­tects traditional mail-order companies. If Connecticut wants to collect taxes from Amazon, it should focus on making its business climate one that attracts Amazon to move in-state. 
Proponents of the tax will argue that Amazon’s in­state affiliate advertisers, who put Amazon links on their websites in exchange for a fee, create an ade­quate in-state presence to justify a tax. But these advertisers aren’t Amazon employees and aren’t par­ticipants in Amazon’s sales transactions. These adver­tisers are the equivalent of a newspaper putting an advertisement for a mail-order company in their pub­lication. 
Furthermore, if Connecticut enacts this tax, Amazon has threatened to remove these advertisers to prevent having to collect a tax, while detracting from many Connecticut incomes. Therefore, Connecticut won’t be able to collect any sales tax from Amazon, while also losing out on income taxes. So, regardless of the Constitutional arguments, it is still clear that this would lead to negative results for the state. 
Suzanne Staubach, manager of the UConn Co-op argues in her testimony to the Finance, Revenue and Bonding Committee that because Amazon doesn’t col­lect taxes on transactions, the Co-op suffers. Thus, requiring Amazon to collect taxes equalizes the com­petition. This argument is flawed for several reasons. 
First off, many items purchased on Amazon are not a transaction with Amazon, but rather transactions with individuals who are selling their new or used merchandise on Amazon’s platform. These individuals likely have no authority to collect taxes anywhere, much less in Connecticut. As of 2010, these third-party transactions account for 31 percent of Amazon’s sales. 
Secondly, as of January, Amazon’s ebook sales have outpaced their hardcovers sales by three to one. Amazon’s ebooks have even surpassed their paper­back sales with 115 ebooks sold for everyone paper­back sold. If the Co-op wants to complain about not being able to compete, it isn’t because of a 6 percent sales tax, but rather because customers are discover­ing an alternative to paper books. 
Lastly, the greatest reason why the Co-op’s criticism is misguided is because the Co-op doesn’t collect any sales tax on books purchased by students for classes, which presumably make up the majority of its sales. This is because Connecticut has a tax provision that excludes all books purchased for college classes from sales tax. Under an Amazon tax students would still be eligible for tax-exempt books from Amazon, but the state’s tax policy makes it easier and more con­venient to receive this tax exemption from college bookstores than from online retailers and smaller in­state book retailers. So, ironically, it is actually the Co­op that has “loopholes” working in its favor. 
The justifications for the so-called “Amazon tax” are wrong on both constitutional and policy grounds. While blatantly unconstitutional, the tax is also bad for consumers, especially students, who have less dis­posable income and are more likely than older gener­ations to shop online. Imposing the tax will cause Amazon to remove ties with in-state services, hurting in-state contractor’s incomes and the income taxes the state earns. 
This article first appeared in the April 14 edition of The Daily Campus, the daily publication serving the University of Connecticut. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The Observer 
Scene

page 8 Tuesday, April 19, 2011 



By COURTNEY COX 
Associate Scene Editor 
The music festival Coachella took over the valley of Indio, Calif. this past weekend and left behind more than just the memories of amazing shows. Amazing star-studded fashion also took over the scene. 
It seems that in the past years, pictures of celebrities at Coachella have popped up all over the place. Many big names, including Jake Gyllenhal, Reese Witherspoon, Drew Barrymore, Justin Long and Kirsten Dunst, have attended the festival and made their presence known. That is what makes Coachella such a magnet for fashion. 

It’s three short days, but every celebrity who attends knows they will be pho ­tographed, so they dress to impress . What these famous faces wear defi nes what is chic for the follow­ing sum­mer. These clips are just a sample of the fashions seen at Coachella this year. 
Alexa Chung Alexa Chung, seen here attending the Lacoste party, has shot into the fashion spotlight because her 
originality and British charm make her downright delightful. She sported a silk romper, espadrilles, a light shirt and an 
over-the -shoulder bag at this year’s festival. Her style can be emulated but never really repeat­ed because there’s just something indescribable about the way she dresses. She is effortlessly cool. 
Kate Bosworth 
Kate Bosworth, pictured left, exudes the hip California vibe Coachella is famous for. She chose to wear a loose-fitting tie-dye hal­ter dress, gladiator sandals and a 
slouchy purse. Her outfit is the perfect blend of prac­ticality and taste neces ­sary for a music festival. Her style can be easily repli cated because she hasn’t chosen to wear any ­thing out ­landish. She picked simple clothes that look good and are comfort ­able, which is all you can ask for during a scorching hot day in the desert. 
Anne Hathaway 
Wo w. This pic­ture is truly sad­dening. At a festi­val with such a high con­centra­tion of actors and mod­els, why did Anne Hathaway choose this? Why?! Perhaps 
she was 
coordinating with Kelly Osborne who showed up looking like she was 80, complete with the blue hair to prove it. This outfit does literally nothing for Hathaway. She chose a dress that cuts her off at the worst part of the leg, making her appear extremely frumpy. To top it off, the dress is in the single worst color for her complexion. Perhaps she’ll get it right next time, as long as she remembers she’s 28, not 90. 
Whitney Port 
Another miss this year was Whitney Port. While she does have enough style to land a job at Diane Von Furstenberg, she didn’t show it here. Wearing some kind of weird bathing suit top and extremely high waisted silk shorts, she looked like she was trying way too hard. The outfit just didn’t make sense, at least not for the venue. 
Good, bad or really ugly, Coachella had plenty to offer this year for the fashion-conscious observer. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

The Observer 
Scene

Tuesday, April 19, 2011 page 9 

SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 19, 2011 
LONG-DISTANCE RUNNING 
Dutch marathon policy draws criticism for bias 
all the politics.” after days of intense criticism.
Associated Press 
But, with objections coming He said he would make up the 

BRUSSELS — The Utrecht from both the Utrecht city coun-difference between whatever a Marathon has a new payment cil to Nairobi half a world away, local racer wins and what any plan: A winning local Dutch the criticism is likely to only get foreigner would take as a win-runner can take home 100 louder ahead of race day. ner — or about euro9,900 times what a foreign winner Van Keulen says he just want-($14,000). pockets. ed to boost local sports so Dutch Van Wijk decried “the tenden-
Organizers call it a smart runners can stand up to cy of Dutch society to look ever 
incentive plan to develop Dutch Africans in a decade or so. By more inward.” running in a race that has been eliminating his budget for inter-“It is Dutch society at its dominated by Kenyans, winners national runners and investing smallest,” said Van Wijk, owner for the last four it in 23 of the of The World We Work In com-years. Critics see best local run-pany. “As a trading nation, the it as an ugly dis-ners, he aims Dutch always looked at the play of discrimi-“As a trading to improve the world at large and were ready nation and nation, the Dutch incentives and to compete. Now they just elimi­racism. always looked at the facilities. nate competition.” 
Some also view world at large and Now, if a Marathon organizers often it as a metaphor were ready to D u t c h m a n spend part of their budgets on for Dutch society, compete. Now they wins, he gets travel costs, hotel accommoda­where rising just want to eliminate the euro100 tion and appearance fees to lure nationalism and competition.” ($142) that top Kenyan runners in the hope anti-immigrant goes to the first of setting a prestigious fast was time for something else. don't think the organizer has ill sentiment have Gert-Jan van Wijk runner across time. For Kenyans, marathon run-intent, but it would become bad eroded the coun-the line but Van Keulen said his overall ning is often a way to earn a liv-if all organizations started act-
business owner 
try's long-held also a bonus of budget for all international ath-ing. And they do it well, winning ing like this.” image as a bas-up to letes last year was only races around the globe. In Utrecht, the city council — tion of tolerance. e u r o 1 0 , 0 0 0 euro50,000 to euro75,000 “If you are a top-25 finisher in long a backer of the event — 
“The organizers thought up ($14,200) “or more” depending ($71,000 to $107,000), while a marathon in Kenya, there is a has also been taken aback, and rules to discourage foreign run-on the contract incentives the the prize money alone for the big chance you can win has sent the plan to an equal ners,” Tim Looten of the Art. 1 organizer has with the runner. winner of Sunday's London marathons all over the world treatment committee. However, Dutch anti-discrimination “The prize money has gone Marathon was $55,000. and there is nothing wrong with that panel is not expected to organization said Monday. drastically down because we “Do you want to send subsi-that,” Van Wijk said. “The rule before the race, according “That in fact is discrimination.” wanted to put it in the stimulus dies and sponsorship abroad marathon is their biggest export to Utrecht alderwoman Rinda 
Utrecht Marathon organizer program” for the local racers, because we want to buy a fast product.” den Besten. Louran van Keulen says he was Van Keulen said. Female run-time?” Van Keulen said. “I can-Looten saw irony in the situa-“It is a great event of which just trying to encourage local ners are not covered by the new not afford a fast time anyway.” tion. we are so proud but now we are marathoners to excel in his race plan. He said the six biggest “It is funny. Normally people very unhappy. It gets a totally next Monday. Gert-Jan van Wijk, a Dutch marathons in the Netherlands are discriminated against different image,” Den Besten 
“There is talk of discrimina-businessman working in over the past five years had pro-because they are not good said. “All the negative reactions, tion, racism, oh, yes,” Van Nairobi, has already promised duced 28 Kenyan winners out of enough but now it is because the jokes, the cartoons. It is Keulen said. “It is too bad about to restore Dutch honor in Kenya 30 possible champions and it they are too good,” he said. “I really bad.” 



MLB 

Cold weather hampers start of MLB season 
at Coors Field, it’s been rugged all rainouts during an April that’s was out of the lineup Sunday night went to school at Pepperdine and
Associated Press 
across the majors. Nine games been unseasonably wet and cold because of stiffness in his lower lives in California during the off-

The Green Monster seats, great already postponed this year; none in many places, especially along back and side. He had trouble get-season. “I’ve got five thermals on, view. The concession stands that by the same point last season. the Eastern seaboard. ting loose the day before and left I look like a fullback and I’m still sell clam chowder and lobster Six teams have drawn record-At Turner Field, the videoboard early. cold.” rolls, always popular. low crowds at their ballparks — showed the weather radar, rather “I mean, this weather is not the At Fenway, the wind chill tem-
The hot spots at Fenway Park Cleveland, Atlanta, the New York than stats or highlights. At most conducive that we’re playing peratures were in the mid-30s on lately are the gift shops behind Yankees, Seattle, St. Louis and Fenway Park, the protective in,” manager Joe Girardi said. Friday and Saturday. home plate and out beyond the Minnesota — although poor condi-screen at first blew over twice At Progressive Field in “It’s definitely difficult to get Pesky Pole. Why? Because they’re tions aren’t always to blame. during batting practice. Cleveland, Indians third base going and to get comfortable at heated, giving Boston fans a brief Overall, attendance is virtually At Camden Yards, Ian Kinsler coach Steve Smith bundled up the plate and on defense,” said respite from the wicked weather. identical to last season, when and a half-dozen of Texas team-before Sunday’s game against Red Sox first baseman Adrian 
Makes sense to Red Sox center opening day came several days mates took advantage of the Baltimore. Gonzalez, who spent the previous fielder Mike Cameron. earlier. Games are averaging showers and went sliding on the The hood of his gray sweat shirt five seasons playing in San Diego. 
“Everything’s cold out there. You 28,620, compared to 28,835 a tarp. At Yankee Stadium, two pulled over his red Indians cap, “You come in expecting the have that wind. My face is freez-year ago, STATS LLC said. nights were so miserable that fans Smith quickly left the field after worst and getting ready for the ing,” he said. “If you are a big leaguer, it is were given free tickets. batting practice and found a worst. It’s not surprising,” he said. 
“It’s not so much getting loose,” your job and you deal with it,” The National Weather Service warm spot on the top step of a “It’s one of things that even those he said, pointing to his eyes, “it’s Orioles manager Buck Showalter said precipitation in New York is flight of stairs leading into the guys that have been here for a seeing. You’ve got water running said. “You strap it on, go and play. up around 50 percent this April team’s dugout. number of years don’t get used to down. It’s your extremities. Your The show goes on.” over normal. While the average With the temperature hovering it.” eyes, noses, fingers, toes. That’s Except when it doesn’t. temperature of about 51 degrees over 40 and winds gusting to 50 Braves manager Fredi Gonzalez probably the hardest thing. The Baltimore, Washington, Atlanta is par for the month, there have mph, this was not baseball weath-said he often took the weather into things you need to play baseball.” and the New York Mets have host-been several days much colder. er. account when he was guiding the 
Rain, chill and even a snowout ed doubleheaders, all caused by Yankees star Alex Rodriguez “Look at me,” said Smith, who Marlins. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Invention,­my­dear­friends,­is­93% “Toto,­I've­got­a­feeling­we're­not­in perspiration,­6%­electricity,­4% Kansas­anymore.”­---Wizard­of­Oz

LOST AND FOUND NOTICES ADOPTION­Happily­married,­pro-PERSONAL 
fessional­couple­wishes­to­start Aquamarine­Anniversary­UNPLANNED­PREGNANCY?­family.­Ring­Lost­in­ladies­room­of­North If­you­or­someone­you­care­about Can­offer­child­lots­of­love­and­sta-“He­was­always­a­rather­stupidly "See,­I'm­dishonest.­And­a­dishon­Dining­Hall. Don't­go­it­alone.­Notre­Dame­has has­been­sexually­assaulted,­we bility.­Expenses­paid.­optimistic­man.­I­mean,­I’m­afraid­it est­man­you­can­always­trust­to­be $100.00­reward­for­return,­no­ques-many­resources­in­place­to­assist can­help.­We­are­fully­certified­(adoption came­as­a­great­shock­to­him­when dishonest.­Honestly.­It's­the­honest tions­asked.­you. attorney­enlisted­and­home­study he­died.”­­­­­­­­­­---­Clue ones­you­need­to­watch­out­for, Lori­(the­line­lady)­If­you­or­someone­you­love­needs completed)­to­adopt­in­the­United because­you­never­know­when 574-226-3876.­confidential­support­or­assistance, States­"Hey­I­got­an­idea!­I­could­stay­with they're­going­to­do­something When­I­got­married­we­could­not please­call­Sr.­Sue­Dunn­at­1-7819. For­more­information,­visit­Notre Please­call­Maria­and­Michael.­you!­We­could­stay­up­late,­swap incredibly...­stupid."­afford­an­engagement­ring.­I­was For­more­information,­visit­ND's Dames­website:­http://csap.nd.edu 1-800-513-4914­manly­stories,­and­in­the­morning, ---Pirates­of­the­Carribean given­this­ring­for­my­25th­anniver-website­at:­http://pregnancysup-I'm­making­waffles!"­­­---­Shrek sary.­Email­haselrick.1@nd.edu port@nd.edu ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ———————————————­­
Tuesday, April 19, 2011 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
Red Sox begin to heat up after three straight wins 
own manager, Terry Lowrie hit his second
Associated Press 
Francona, after entering the homer, a two-run shot in the 

BOSTON — Daisuke game with a 12.86 ERA in fifth off Ricky Romero (1-2) Matsuzaka wanted to two starts. Matsuzaka per-that made it 5-0, and fin ­impress his old pitching mitted only two baserunners, ished with four RBIs. He now coach. matching the fewest he ’s has 15 hits in his last 24 at-
Did he ever. allowed in his 101 major bats. 
Matsuzaka pitched one-hit league starts. At one point, Lowrie’s .533 ball for seven innings after “If I did pitch badly, ” batting average was posted one of the worst outings of Matsuzaka said, “I thought on the scoreboard. his career and Boston got an there wouldn’t be the next “I understand, but who early start on its third chance.” cares? It’s April 18. We’ve straight win, beating the The game began at 11:07 got a long season,” he said. Toronto Blue Jays and new a.m. at Fenway Park. The “You don’t think about it. manager John Farrell 9-1 on holiday observed in You just continue to do what Monday in the Red Sox tradi-Massachusetts and Maine you ’re doing and go out tional morn -marks the there and just let it happen.” ing Patriots anniversary of Kevin Youkilis and Jacoby Day game. the battles of Ellsbury also homered. 
“Farrell is “If I did pitch badly, Lexington and The festive day marked 
on the other I thought there C o n c o r d i n another special occasion — a side so I wouldn’t be the next 1775. Earlier hit by Carl Crawford. wanted to chance.” M o n d a y, t h e Boston’s left fielder, signed show solid 115th Boston to a $142 million, seven-year pitching in M a r a t h o n contract in the offseason,
Daisuke Matsuzaka
front of him,” passed through broke an 0-for-15 slump with
Red Sox pitcher
Matsuzaka n e a r b y an RBI double that made it said through a K e n m o r e 8-0 in the sixth. Crawford, translator. Square. booed after his previous at-
For the past M a t s u z a k a bat, received a standing ova-four years Farrell tried, (1-2) got plenty of support as tion as he raised his batting often unsuccessfully, to get Jed Lowrie’s four hits led a average to .136 (8 for 59). Matsuzaka to attack hitters 13-hit, three-homer attack. Francona was “thrilled. and cut down his pitch Matsuzaka gave up a clean Everybody was. I was happy count. On Monday, the right-single to center to Jose to see the ball hit before (a hander threw just 89 pitches Bautista with two outs in the long out to left) because it against the free -swinging first. He walked Travis was a good approach, but Blue Jays, whose impatience Snider with two outs in the then you certainly want to at the plate worked in his second, then set down his see somebody rewarded.” favor. final 16 batters to improve to Romero allowed five runs 
“He threw a very good 7-1 against the Blue Jays. in 4 1-3 innings with four game,” Farrell said. “He’s He struck out three and strikeouts, eight hits and fine had a lot of success against walked one. In his previous walks. Toronto in the past and he’s start against Tampa Bay, he “I felt great coming into used his fastball effectively. allowed seven runs in two the game,” he said. “They He did that today and we innings. have the offense. It’s just a weren ’t able to put good Toronto finished with two matter of them getting back swings on it.” hits. Yunel Escobar homered on track.” 
More importantly, off Tim Wakefield in the The Red Sox have appeared Matsuzaka impressed his ninth. to straighten out their sea­


and we’d like to give you one. 

Stop by either our LaFortune or Douglas Road Branch, convert your current checking account to the edge checking,and we’ll give you a $25 iTunes gift card. 
You and your money will be singing a different tune in no time. Hurry in! This offer won’t last long. 


H 

$25 iTunes gift card offer available to graduating seniors only and only while supplies last or until May 30,2011. Available only at our LaFortune and Douglas Road branches. Limit one (1) $25 iTunes gift card per member.Independent of the University. 


son since losing their first six games and opening at 2­10, matching their worst 12­game record ever. Then they got three straight outstand­ing starting performances from Josh Beckett in a 4-1 win on Saturday and Jon Lester in an 8-1 win on Sunday. 
“They really kind of baffled us today,” Toronto second baseman Aaron Hill said. “It was embarrassing what hap­pened to us the last three days.” 
Matsuzaka’s brilliance was surprising after his bad out­ing on April 11 in a 16-5 loss to Tampa Bay. His ERA dropped Monday exactly in half, to 6.43. He said he sim­plified his approach and tried not to think too much about the advice he was get­ting. 
“He threw a lot of strikes,” Francona said. “There were a couple of points in the game where they got aggres­sive early in the count.” 
Matsuzaka left after just 89 pitches, 58 of them strikes. Alfredo Aceves pitched a scoreless eighth and Wakefield followed. 
Lowrie, giving Marco Scutaro a run for the start­ing shortstop job, gave Boston a 2-0 lead with a two-run single in the first. The Red Sox made it 3-0 in the third on a double by Youkilis and a single by David Ortiz. 
Ortiz started the fifth with a walk and scored ahead on Lowrie’s home run. Youkilis added his second homer, a two -run shot, in the sixth before Crawford drove in his second run of the season. Ellsbury hit his team-leading fourth homer in the seventh. 
NHL 
Bruins defeat Habs in Montreal behind Krejci 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL — David Krejci and Nathan Horton scored first-period goals to lead Boston to a 4-2 win over the Montreal Canadiens on Monday night as the Bruins won on the road after dropping the first two games of their first-round series at home. 
Tim Thomas stopped 34 shots for Boston and Rich Peverley scored in the second. Chris Kelly scored into an empty net with 
25.6 seconds remaining. 
Bruins captain Zdeno Chara returned to the lineup after missing Saturday night’s 3-2 loss to Montreal after he was hospi­talized overnight for dehydra­tion. 
Andrei Kostitsyn, who also missed Game 2, scored the Canadiens’ first goal with Boston holding a 3-0 lead 7:03 into the middle period. Tomas Plekanec drew Montreal within one early in the third. 
Carey Price made 21 saves after stopping 65 of 66 in the Canadiens’ two wins at the TD Bank Garden and posting a shutout in Thursday’s series opening 2-0 win. 
Game 4 is Thursday night. 
The Bruins will practice in Lake Placid on Tuesday and Wednesday, the site of the U.S. 
hockey team’s “Miracle on Ice” in the 1980 Olympics. Coming into the Bell Centre facing a 2-0 series deficit with a streak of six straight playoff losses, it looked as though Boston might need a miracle of its own to solve Price. 
Chara, who played his first game in Montreal since his dev­astating hit on Max Pacioretty, saw his customary boos turn to cheers when the Bruins were called for too many men 1:08 in after the 6-foot-9 Boston captain jumped on the ice with fellow defenseman Dennis Seidenberg. 
The sold-out crowd of 21,273 was silenced moments later when Seidenberg drew an assist as Krejci beat Price for his first goal at 3:08. 
Chara helped set up Horton’s goal at 14:38 as the Bruins stretched their first lead of the series to 2-0. 
After playing virtually error-free hockey through the first two games in Boston, the Canadiens lost their composure in the first period and that carried over into the second. 
Price’s clearing pass struck Bruins winger Mark Recchi’s skate and bounded to Peverley, who fired the puck into Montreal’s unguarded net 2:02 into the middle period to make it 3-0. 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April 19, 2011 
BOSTON MARATHON 

Mutai, Kilel complete Kenyan sweep at Boston Marathon 
even see the leaders.’ It was unre-honored to have played a part in 
Associated Press 
al.” his doing it,” Grilk said. 

BOSTON — Kenya’s Geoffrey The IAAF must certify a world Kilel won the women’s race to Mutai ran the fastest 26.2 miles in record, and it is unlikely to approve complete the Kenyan sweep, out-history to win the Boston Marathon Mutai’s feat. The international gov-sprinting American Desiree Davila on Monday. Then his claim to a erning body’s Rule 206 requires to win by two seconds in 2:22:36. world record was swallowed up by courses to start and finish near the Davila led as late as the final stretch the hills. same point in order to discourage on Boylston Street and ran the 
Not the inclines of Heartbreak downhill, wind-aided runs and the fastest time ever for a U.S. woman, Hill that have doomed so many artificially fast times they can pro-five seconds faster than Benoit, runners before him. duce. (Boston has a net decline of who is now known as Joan 
It was the downhill part of the 459 feet, though the course is domi-Samuelson. race that makes his time of 2 hours, nated by hills going up and down.) Kara Goucher ran a personal 3 minutes, 2 seconds ineligible for “We had a stunning performance best 2:24:52 to add a fifth-place fin-an official world record. In short: and an immensely fast time here ish to her third in 2009. No IAAF rules have deemed the oldest today,” said Tom Grilk, the head of American — man or woman — has and most prestigious marathon in the Boston Athletic Association, won Boston since Lisa Larsen-the world — long considered the after Mutai ran almost a full minute Weidenbach in 1985. one of the most difficult, too — to be faster than the sanctioned world “We’re knocking on the door,” too easy. record. “We in Boston are well-Hall said. “I mean 2:08 last year 
“You don’t look at world records. pleased with what has happened, and 2:04 this year ... It’s going to You just go,” Mutai said. “If you are and that’s good unto itself. The defi-come; it’s just a matter of time.” strong, you push it. But if you put it nitions of others, I will leave to A year after Cheruiyot lowered in your head, you can’t make it.” them.” the course record by more than a was not trying to break the world and the pack was upon her less 
Mutai outsprinted Moses Mosop IAAF officials did not immediately minute, almost 27,000 runners record. But I see the gift from God,” than a mile later. Among them was down Boylston Street to win by four respond to emails from The lined up in Hopkinton with temper-Mutai said. “I’m happy. I don’t have Davila. seconds as the two Kenyans both Associated Press seeking comment. atures in the high 40s and a 21 more words to add.” The American ran with Kenyans beat Haile Gebrselassie’s sanc-Although the organization’s rules mph wind at their back — perfect Cheruiyot, who had been recov-Kilel and Sharon Cherop through tioned world record of 2:03:59. clearly disqualify the Boston course marathoning weather. Kim Smith, ering from a car accident in Kenya, Chestnut Hill and briefly broke out Four men, including third-place fin-from a world record, it does list a New Zealander who lives in finished sixth. Defending women’s of her rhythm to wave as the crowd isher Gebregziabher Gebremariam Cheruiyot’s time in last year’s race Providence, took off at a record champion Teyba Erkesso dropped began chanting, “U-S-A!” The three of Ethiopia and American Ryan among the best times of 2010. Joan pace and led the women’s race for out before reaching the halfway swapped leads down Beacon Street Hall, broke the course record of Benoit’s 2:22:53 was considered a more than 20 miles. point. in Brookline, and Davila led even 
2:05:52 set just last year by Robert women’s record in 1983, though The men were more steady, and The women’s pack let Smith go, on the final stretch before Kilel out-Kiprono Cheruiyot. that was before the IAAF refined its they were the ones to take down falling almost a minute behind. But kicked her. 
“These guys obviously showed us rules. the old mark. 20 miles in, as she ran down “It was the most excitement I’ve what’s possible for the marathon,” Mutai will receive a $50,000 Mutai and Mosop ran side-by-Commonwealth Avenue in Newton had in a race ever and just really said Hall, whose 2:04:58 is the bonus for the world best and anoth-side for the final miles before Mutai toward Heartbreak Hill, she began carried me the last six miles,” fastest ever run by an American. “I er $25,000 for the course record to pulled ahead for good on Boylston to stutter-step. Davila said. “I felt that energy, and I was out there running, and I was go with the $150,000 he and Street. The 19th Kenyan winner in Soon, she had stopped completely felt comfortable at the front and thinking to myself, ‘I can’t believe women’s winner Caroline Kilel the past 21 years, Mutai raised his to rub her right calf. It was only for pushing the pace because of that. It this is happening right now. I’m earned for the win. “This gentle-arms in the air and grinned. a few seconds, but when she really just carried me through to running a 2:04 pace, and I can’t man did both things, and we are “When I was coming to Boston, I resumed she had clearly slowed the finish line.” 


























2011 Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C. Award 2011 Dockweiler Award for Excellence in for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching Undergraduate Advising 
The following faculty members have had a profound infuence on The following individuals have demonstrated a deep commitment Notre Dame undergraduates through sustained, exemplary teaching. to Notre Dame undergraduates through outstanding mentoring, academic advising, or career counseling services. 
Joseph Buttigieg Tara Macleod Sam Gaglio Xavier Creary Kerry Meyers Kathleen Kolberg Steve Fallon Ken Milani Anre Venter Agustin Fuentes Brian O’Conchubhair Daniel Graff Jeffrey Peng Daniel Groody Anne Pilkington Yih-Fang Huang Georgine Resick Anthony Hyder Deborah Rotman Charles Kulpa Maria Tomasula William Leahy Xiaoshan Yang 
Office of the Pr vost
ovost 

Tuesday, April 19, 2011 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles defeat Calvin to continue hot streak 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Another MIAA match, another Belles win. Saint Mary’s took a 5-4 decision yesterday against conference foe Calvin to grab sole posses­sion of third place in the MIAA standings. 
Since dropping their open­ing conference match to Albion Mar. 29, the Belles have rebounded to win five of the last six MIAA matches and six of seven overall. 
“It’s a good time to peak at the end of the season,” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. “We’ve made some adjust­ments to our play but we still have a big conference match against Kalamazoo.” 
The top three singles play­ers led the Knights (7-9, 4-3 MIAA) by winning each of their matches in straight sets, losing only eight games in those matches. Reigning MIAA Player of the Year Melissa Oosterhouse defeated Saint Mary’s senior Jillian Hurley 6­2, 6-1 in the No. 1 singles match-up. 
The Belles rebounded, how­ever, to take the remaining three singles matches — all in straight sets. Senior Franca Peluso easily beat Lauren Schlagenhauf 6-4, 6-0, in the No. 4 singles match-up. Seniors Kate Grabarek and Mary Therese Lee also earned singles victories, with Lee’s win clinching the overall vic­tory for Saint Mary’s. 
“We knew this team was strong at the top [of singles play] and we thought we could match-up all the way down,” Campbell said. “We were down by one and our bottom two pulled it out for us.” 
In doubles play, the Belles (12-6, 5-2) won two of the three matches, giving them an edge early on. Senior Jessica Kosinski and freshman Mary Katherine Faller won comfort­ably 8-5. Peluso and Lee also won their match 8-6 to give the Belles an important lead. 
“It’s always a point of emphasis for us to win at least two [doubles matches] against strong competition,” Campbell said. “It was a dif­ference maker for us [Monday].” 
The Belles will venture out of conference today when they play NAIA foe Indiana Wesleyan. The Wildcats carry a daunting 21 -1 record in NAIA play. 
“They are an excellent team that’s usually ranked,” Campbell said. “We just want to get some match experience against them.” 
Weather permitting, the Belles and Wildcats face off today at 4 p.m. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
NHL 

Penguins hold off Lightning in Game 3 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. — Tyler Kennedy put Pittsburgh ahead early in the third period and Marc-Andre Fleury stopped 25 shots Monday night, help­ing the Penguins hold off the Tampa Bay Lightning 3-2. 
Maxime Talbot and Arron Asham also scored for the Penguins, who took a 2-1 lead in their first-round Eastern Conference best -of -seven playoff series and regained home-ice advantage. Game 4 is Wednesday night in Tampa. 
Pittsburgh rebounded from a 5-1 home loss in Game 2 despite giving up two more power-play goals to Martin St. Louis. The Lightning star erased a 2-0 deficit by strik­ing late in the opening period, then again early in the third to give Tampa Bay hope of taking control of the series. 
But Kennedy answered with the go-ahead goal just 31 sec­onds later, scoring in heavy traffic from in front of goalie Dwayne Roloson after Pittsburgh won a faceoff in the left circle. 
The Penguins have won six consecutive Game 3s and are 10 -1 in the third game of playoff series dating to the 2008 postseason. Over the same stretch, Fleury is 12-4 following a playoff loss. 
Talbot got the Penguins off to a fast start, scoring just seconds after Tampa Bay’s Brian Downie excited a sell­out crowd with a hard hit on Ben Lovejoy, leveling the Pittsburgh defenseman behind the Lightning net — but not before Lovejoy got the puck to Talbot who quickly moved up ice to score at the other end. 
Asham made it 2-0 just 45 seconds later, taking a perfect pass from Michael Rupp and tapping the puck into the left side of the net. 
After Tampa Bay scored twice on power plays in Game 2, Pittsburgh felt it was essential to stay out of the penalty box to minimize 
opportunities for the Lightning to make one of the NHL’s most effective power plays a factor again. 
The Penguins felt they lacked discipline in Game 2, when they thought they allowed Tampa Bay to goad them into several costly penalties and go 2-for-6 on power-play opportunities. The Lightning were 2 of 4 on Monday night, with St. Louis scoring at 15:19 of the first period and again at 2:12 of the third. 
Pittsburgh was 0 for 2 on the power play, dropping to 0 for 15 for the series. 
NBA 
Heat take 2-0 lead with win 

Associated Press 
MIAMI — LeBron James outscored Philadelphia’s entire starting five in the first half by himself. 
So did Chris Bosh. 
So did Dwyane Wade. 
And that pretty much tells the tale of a night the 76ers would rather forget. 
No comeback required for the Miami Heat this time. They went wire-to-wire on the lead, and moved two wins from advancing to the Eastern Conference semifinals. 
James scored 29 points, Bosh had his second straight double-double with 21 points and 11 rebounds, and Miami took a 2-0 series lead with a 94-73 victory over the abysmally shooting 76ers — who managed their second-lowest playoff scoring total in the last 56 years — on Monday night. 
“It was a really complete game for us at both ends of the floor,” James said. 
Showing no signs of the migraine that he battled Sunday, Wade scored 14 points for Miami, now 17-3 in its last 20 games and halfway to winning its first playoff series since the 2006 NBA finals. 
“I’m feeling a lot better,” said Wade, who wasn’t able to eat Sunday and was very low-energy at times before Monday’s game. “I lost a lot of weight tonight ... but I think I did my job, to come out there and help my team get a win.” 
Thaddeus Young scored 18 points and Evan Turner added 15 for the 76ers, whose starters were outscored 76-29 by the Heat’s first-string. Philadelphia shot 34 percent for the game, and after getting 42 points in the paint in Game 1, were held to 24 in that department Monday. 
“We’ve had good defensive performances,” Bosh said, “but I think today was our best of the season.” 
The 76ers find themselves needing to buck some serious history. Miami has never lost a series after winning the first two games (6-0), and the Philadelphia franchise is win­less in 16 tries after falling into an 0-2 postseason hole. And then there’s this — only 14 teams have won after los­ing the first two games of a best-of-seven NBA series. 
“If they’re playing great, they’re a better team,” Sixers coach Doug Collins said. “OK? If they’re playing on top of their game, they’re a better team. I mean, they won 58, we won 41. That doesn’t mean that we aren’t going to play and compete and fight. But when they come out tonight and defend the way they did ... it’s going to be very difficult for us to beat them.” 
It was Philadelphia’s second-lowest playoff point total since 1955, the only exception com­ing in a 79-68 loss to Orlando in 1999. And the 76ers won that series. 
Philadelphia made 15 of its first 24 shots in Game 1, a 63 percent clip. Since then: 47 of 140, 34 percent. 
“You’ve got to give them credit,” said Sixers guard Andre Iguodala, who has nine points on 4-for-15 shooting in the series. 
Wade played 34 minutes, despite spending Sunday bedridden in a darkened room fighting off a migraine that he likened to a “nightmare.” He had no outward ill effects, shooting 4 for 11 with six rebounds. 
Instead, it’s the 76ers who spent much of Monday looking pained. 
“He controlled the game,” James said of Wade. “He had two people on him so he just got off the ball and let other guys make things happen and it’s good to have him on the court than in a suit.” 
Game 3 is Thursday night in Philadelphia. 
Philadelphia shot only 26 percent in the first half, a record for a Heat playoff opponent. The 76ers’ starters were outscored 41-9 in the opening 24 minutes, and unlike their last two meetings, never put a scare into Miami. Philadelphia had a 16-point lead in the teams’ final regu­lar-season matchup, a 14­point lead in Game 1, but sim­ply couldn’t get rolling Monday. 
The 76ers didn’t even have a starter reach double figures until 3:49 remained in the third quarter, when Jrue Holiday made a 3-pointer to get to 10 points. By then, James had 23, Bosh had 15 and Wade 12 — and the Heat led 68-50. 
The margin kept growing from there, all the way to 28 at one point. A clearly frus­trated Collins got a technical with 1:56 left and the game decided, the Heat holding a 91-67 lead. 
“We just have to continue to fight,” Sixers guard Lou Williams said. “Obviously we’re dealing with a team that has a lot of guys that can score the basketball. ... They did what they were supposed to do, which was come out and defend the home court for two games and send us back to Philly with a sour taste in our mouths.” 
It was over fairly early. James said he wanted to be more aggressive in Game 2 than he was in the series opener, and apparently that message got to all corners of the Heat locker room. 
Philadelphia was within 28­20 midway through the second quarter, but a 21-11 Heat run to end the half took care of that. James had consecutive baskets, the second of them a highlight-quality one-handed dunk off a high alley-oop lob from Mario Chalmers for a 37­23 lead, and Miami was off and running. That play was started by two blocks by Joel Anthony, who ignited the Heat defense all night. 
“He’s awesome,” Bosh said. 
The lead was 49-31 by half­time and 75-52 after the third quarter, in which Philadelphia shot only 33 percent but raised its percentage for the game to 28. 
“Our energy tonight was much better,” Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said, “from begin­ning to end.” 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April 19, 2011 
Lynch 
continued from page 16 
annual Blue -Gold Game Saturday. He added one quar­terback hurry, and on a few occasions forced his way past blockers to put freshman quarterback Andrew Hendrix on the ground. 
“He’s going to be a great player,” Hendrix said after the game. “I told him in the locker room, ‘I can’t wait to see you do that against other people because I’ve had enough of that.’ [Being rushed by Lynch] got kind of tiring — he put a lick on me a few times, so I not help but sing Lynch’s praises. 
“He’s not even hit where he can be as a defensive line­man,” he said on Feb. 2. “He’s just playing with raw athletic ability, being tenacious all the time, and he’s always getting after it, and we’ll be able to develop him in his skill at that position as well.” 
Lynch has already added 15 lbs. of strength to his frame since leaving high school. He will need to continue to bulk up now that he is facing big­ger, stronger competition at the collegiate level. 
“Here I’m smaller than all the offensive linemen,” Lynch 
said during 
Notre Dame’s 

guess I’m glad spring practice 
“He played inside, 
that’s over season. “You 
he played outside. 
with.” can’t just use 
He’s going to be a
Irish coach your bull rush. 
great addition.” 
Brian Kelly We go over all suggested fans the techniques 
Brian Kelly 
temper their and the moves 
Irish coach
expectations of the rising freshman, who just turned 18 years old on March 8. 
Even Kelly, however, could not help but look ahead to the type of career Lynch is pro­jected to have. 
“You saw, we moved him around [Saturday],” Kelly said. “He played inside, he played outside. He’s going to be a great addition.” 
Lynch, rated the third-best defensive end in last year’s recruiting class by Rivals.com, was one of the most highly coveted players in the nation. After originally committing to Notre Dame, he changed his pledge to Florida State before eventually deciding to rejoin the Irish recruiting haul. At the National Signing Day press conference, Kelly could 
Aoki 
continued from page 16 
win a series this month. 
Irish coach Mik Aoki sees his team’s struggles as a function of multiple lacking areas in his team’s performance. 
“I think offensively we have made some progress,” he said. “It is just something that is going to happen and there are stretches where you will strug­gle with it. It is an ongoing concern of try­ing to show 
offensive improvement. 
b e c au se  yo u  
h a ve  t o  u se  
t h os e  a t  th i s  
l e vel .  You  c a n’t  r un  o v e r  

someone here.” 
Lynch has had the advan­tage of assimilating into Notre Dame life with four other early enrollees — kicker Kyle Brindza, offensive lineman Brad Carrico, quarterback Everett Golson and fellow defensive standout and close friend Ishaq Williams. 
Although Lynch will most likely not start for the Irish defense when Notre Dame faces South Florida in the sea­son opener Sept. 3, his future looks bright as a key compo­nent of Kelly’s attempt to bring the program back to an elite level of college football. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

But we also “We also need to categories need to get get back to a mindset including bat-back to a of playing defense ting average mindset of with a blue-collar (.342), home playing defense mentality of just runs (6) and with a blue-grinding and getting RBI (23). collar mentali-a job done.” “Trey has ty of just grind-been great,” ing and getting Mik Aoki Aoki said. “He a job done.” Irish coach puts up quality ior shortstop Chris Dudics, who have carried the MAC squad offensively. In Toledo’s 7-4 win Sunday over Bowling Green, Dudics had a career day, going four for five with two runs and a solo shot. Hammer leads the team with a .368 batting average. 
Meanwhile, the Irish have a bright spot of their own in freshman first baseman Trey Mancini, who continued his success at the plate with a solo home run Sunday for Notre Dame’s only run of the game. The Florida-product leads the Irish in all major offensive 
Throughout the season, the Irish have con­stantly put themselves in a hole with defensive gaffs. Two crucial errors by sophomore second baseman Frank DeSico and freshman center fielder Eric Jagielo led to a four-run fifth inning that turned a two-run Mountaineer lead into a 6-0 advantage Sunday. In its last four contests Notre Dame has committed eight errors, an area the Irish will need to improve in order to overcome an upstart Toledo (19-17, 8-4 MAC) squad. 
The Rockets are led by their talented duo of junior center fielder Ben Hammer and sen-at-bats. He has 
hit in really big 
situations and 
in situations where the game was out of hand. He is a kid with great offensive ability. His approach at the plate has been outstand­ing, and he makes some good adjustments. With that approach and his willingness to use the entire field, he real­ly gives himself a good chance every at-bat.” 
The Irish welcome Toledo to Frank Eck Stadium tonight at 
5:35 p.m. as they look to con­tinue their non-conference success. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 

ASHLEY DACY/The Observer Irish senior Jeff Chen takes a shot during Notre Dame’s victory at the Battle at the Warren Apr. 12. Chen and the Irish have the lead at the Big East championships in Palm Harbor, Fla. 
Kubinski 
continued from page 16 
“He’s playing fantastic, and not just for a freshman.” 
Platt’s round left him tied with Irish junior Max Scodro and Louisville ’s Karsten Clements for the 
overall individual lead through two rounds. 
Scodro was one of three Notre Dame golfers who posted a score of two above par yesterday, along with sophomore Paul McNamara and senior Connor-Alan Lee. McNamara’s perform­ance was particularly impressive given that he injured his back the day 
Sullivan 
continued from page 16 
played, this is what we are playing for, is to win these. We are kind of in a must-win situ­ation in a way because we are coming back, but we have played the top teams in the conference already. I just told my team, ‘Beat the teams we are supposed to beat,’ and these last few teams are among that group.” 
Saint Mary’s has not yet 
Zhang 
continued from page 16 
round score by one stroke Monday to finish at an even-par 72, good enough to move into second place. Rounding out the Irish roster is senior Katie Conway, who ended the second day of play tied for 13th individ­ually. 
After two consistent days of golf, Notre Dame is looking to finish strong and bring home the conference title with just one round remaining today. 
“We are the best ranked team before and almost didn ’t en route to a two-over-par. play the round. “Alan -Lee just didn ’t 
“The injury was just to make a couple putts today,” the muscle, so Kubionski said. we knew he “But when you’re couldn ’t hurt as accurate as he it worse, ” was with your 
“I’m really 
Kubinski said. irons, you can 
proud of how the 
“But he was afford to make a 
guys performed 
still playing mistake or two 
today.” 
with a lot of with your short pain.” game.” 
David Kubinski 
McNamara The Irish return recorded two to Innisbrook 
Irish coach 
bogies through Resorts’s his first four Copperhead holes, but then course today for followed with the third and 14 straight pars in a gritty final round of the Big East performance. championships. 
Alan-Lee proved remark­ably accurate from the fair-Contact Conor Kelly at way, hitting 15 of 18 greens ckelly17@nd.edu 
earned a bid for the postsea­son MIAA tournament, which places extra importance on the upcoming conference games. 
“The next games are mostly all conference games, so we are going in trying to win these next six games,” Fordon said. “In order to get a spot in the conference tournament, we have to do really well these next six games, so it is going to be ideal to win them all.” 
Sullivan said it would be important for her players to play with confidence in their matchup against Hope. 
“Confidence in all the past, the hard work they put in [will be key],” she said. “We have had a really good week of hit­ting, and my pitchers should be well rested, so we just need them to throw good games, take control of each inning, each situation, and we will be winning, finally.” 
The Belles take the field for the home doubleheader at 
3:30 p.m. Tuesday. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
in the field and we know it is our Notre Dame and Louisville are tournament to win,” Park said. third-place Georgetown (307, Park and fellow senior +47) and fourth-place South 
Conway are particularly motivated to 
“I think our big 
win a champi­
team goal is to win 
onship and end 
[the[ Big East.” 
their confer­ence careers 
Katie Conway 
with an excla­
senior golfer
mation point. 
“I think our big team goal is Florida (310, +49). I n d i v i d u a l l y, Nhim, Park and Huffer will try to catch St. John’s Harin Lee, who shot a 36-hole total of 142 (-2). 
The Irish start the final leg of 
to win [the] Big East,” Conway their championship quest said. “On a personal note, I’d Tuesday morning. like to finish my career on a high note.” Contact Laura Coletti at 
Lurking in the field behind lcoletti@nd.edu 

Tuesday, April 19, 2011 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


HENRI ARNOLD
JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
JUMBLE
PLEASANDVILLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports

Tuesday, April 19, 2011 page 16 
BASEBALL 

Operation offense 
Notre Dame to take on non-conferencefoeToledo 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
After Notre Dame continued 
its Big East troubles in a 
series loss to rival West 
Virginia Sunday, the Irish will 
welcome the opportunity to 
face a non-conference oppo­
nent as they take on Toledo 
this evening. 
The Irish (14-18-1, 5-7 Big East) have struggled lately, dropping four of their past six games all at home against Big East opponents. Yet their sea­son-long offensive concerns seemed to vanish as they aver­aged over six runs per game heading into Sunday’s rubber game against the Mountaineers (22-15, 8-4). 
But Notre Dame only man­aged one run on three hits in Sunday afternoon’s 8-1 loss, which continued Notre Dame’s April slumber, as it has yet to 
JULIE HERDER/The Observer 

Irish freshman first baseman Trey Mancini takes a swing during Notre Dame’s 8-1 see AOKI/page 14 loss to West Virginia Sunday. Mancini leads the team with six home runs. 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
Irish hold top spot at tourney 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
After two rounds of play, the No. 25 Irish remain in first place in the Big East tournament in Palm Harbor, Fla. Notre Dame’s cumulative score of 297 (+9) Monday, coupled with a 295 (+7) from the first round was good enough to increase its lead over second-place Louisville to 18 strokes. Notre Dame is 16 over par overall. 
Junior Becca Huffer and senior So-Hyun Park are tied for third place individually. Huffer ended day one in first place, but dropped to third after finishing day two four strokes over par. 
The Irish have also received solid performances from fresh­men Kristina Nhim and Nicole Zhang, who are currently in sec­ond and eighth place, respective­ly. Nhim improved her first-
see ZHANG/page 14 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles to host conference rival Hope in doubleheader 
tured the second decision 11-0, the Flying Dutch, who Sullivan which consists of seniors [pitching staff], so we have
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
displaying their offensive said consistently offer stiff Michelle Marra and Andrea been hitting live off of our
Sports Writer 
power. opposition. Reinecke, boasts an ERA of pitchers.” 
“Our hitters feel like they “They always play a really 3.17 in 179 innings pitched this Although they have not tin-

Having managed to persevere finally got back on track the close game, they do not really season. The Belles have kered extensively with their through a tough stretch of second game on Tuesday,” get slaughtered a lot or slaugh-focused especially on preparing weekly ritual, the Belles fully games, the Belles aim to leave Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. ter a lot of teams, they just get to face the seasoned duo of appreciate how important the their struggles behind when The Belles will have the the job done,” she said. “They pitchers, but their practice ritu-final games on their schedule they host Hope for a conference advantage of extra rest as they brought back the same pitchers al has otherwise remained are, including today’s two doubleheader today. prepare for Hope (17-10-1, 5-1) from last year, so we are not unchanged. games. 
Saint Mary’s (12-11, 1-5 following the postponement of looking for a very different “It has just been doing the “It is the most important part MIAA) takes the field for its their doubleheader against team out of them, just another normal stuff,” freshman first of our season,” Sullivan said. first game since Tuesday, when Olivet, which had been sched-tough game from them since baseman Chelsea Fordon said. “It is conference [play]. All the Belles split a pair of games uled for Saturday. they tend to play pretty hard “We have been doing infield those other games that we with Franklin. After dropping Saint Mary’s will be tasked every year.” and hitting to prepare. We have the first game, the Belles cap-with finding a way to challenge The Hope pitching staff, heard they have a pretty good see SULLIVAN/page 14 
FOOTBALL 

Lynchhandlesnewchallenges 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
As an early enrollee, Aaron Lynch faced a difficult transi­tion when he entered Notre Dame this spring. With the rest of campus already settled in, the academic, social and athletic pressures might have seemed even more difficult for Lynch to conquer. 
However, in his first per­formance as a collegiate foot­ball player, Lynch showed no signs of being overwhelmed by the rigors of adapting to University life. 
The 6-foot-6, 260 pounds defensive end out of Cape Coral, Fla., tallied seven tack­les, one-and-a-half of which were for a loss in the 82nd 
see LYNCH/page 14 

MEN’S GOLF 
Notre Dame passes Louisville, grabs lead 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Heading into the second round of the Palm Harbor, Fla., Big East champi ­onship game Monday, the Irish were tied with Louisville. Notre Dame seized control of the tour­nament, though, and fin­ished the day on top after posting a six over par 290. 
Notre Dame shot the low­est round of the tourna ­ment by any team thus far and now sits seven shots ahead of Louisville going into the final round Tuesday. Hampered by swirling winds, injury and a tough course, the Irish had to battle through all 18 holes. 
“I’m really proud of how the guys performed,” Irish coach James Kubinksi said. “They posted some really good scores.” 
The Irish were led by freshman Niall Platt, who carded an even par 71. Platt recorded a pair of birdies to go along with two bogies, and was tied for the best individual score of the day. 
“I’ve just been so impressed with Platt this tournament. This kid has no nerves,” Kubinski said. 
see KUBINSKI/page 14 





