
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students excited for first win of Irish season 
Fans react to Saturday’s 31-13 victory over Michigan State 
By VIENNA WAGNER 
News Writer 
For freshman Irish Sch­weier, the Notre Dame victory over Michigan State on Satur­day was a day of firsts. 
For the first time, Schweier celebrated a win in the student section. 
The 31-13 upset was also Schweier’s first chance to cele­brate a touchdown with trium­phant push-ups on her friends’ shoulders. 
“Doing push-ups was slightly terrifying, but so much fun at the same time,” Schweier said. “I’m really glad that we played well enough to score so many times.” 
Freshman Sean Gervais grew up watching Irish foot­ball at home. He said this game was a welcome improvement. 
“I’ve grown up such a pessi­mist after seeing Notre Dame lose in past seasons,” Ger­vais said, “After the Michigan game, you could see how the defense is able to adapt and have people present to make tackles. Once Rees’ throw­ing game came together, you could see the offense pick up and start driving down the field.” 
After freshman running back George Atkinson III scored a touchdown on an 89­yard kickoff return, Gervais said the energy in the stands was contagious. 
“The student section had the most spirit after the kickoff re­turn,” Gervais said. 
Despite the win, Brenda Smith, assistant rector in Ly­ons Hall, said fans were frus­trated by some of the mistakes on the field. 
“I felt like I was really glad that we won, but we still could have played better,” Smith said, “There were some turn­overs and bad plays, such as the punt that could have been caught.” 
The gameday included an added bonus as the marching band performed its regularly schedule halftime show, as well as the halftime show can-celled two weeks ago due to in­clement weather. 
Junior Lizzie Helping said the band’s two performances, which included renditions of Toto’s “Africa” and LMFAO’s “Party Rock Anthem,” were impressive. 
“The band was awesome,” Helping said. 
During its first show, the Notre Dame band and the Michigan State band collabo­rated to play “Amazing Grace.” The bands performed the song together 10 years ago during the first home game following the Sept. 11 attacks in 2001. 
Freshman Grace Paz said the tribute to the anniversary of the terrorist attacks was moving. 
“It was inspiring to see how two bands with completely different playing styles could 
see WIN/page 5 





Roof-sit raises scholarship funds 

By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
This year’s annual Fisher Hall Roof-sit hit close to home for the dorm’s residents. 
The dorm’s signature event raised $4,619 for a memorial fund in honor of former Fisher resident Declan Sullivan, rec­tor Fr. Brian Metz said. 
Junior Chris Sarkis said the dorm’s residents felt a per­sonal connection to this year’s fundraiser. 

“This year, it’s a charity that everyone knows about,” Sarkis said. “All the guys who were freshmen last year and [older residents] knew Declan.” 
Sullivan, a student videog­rapher for the football team, died Oct. 27 after the scissor-lift from which he was filming football practice fell. 
The Declan Drumm Sullivan Memorial Fund supports a full scholarship for a Film, Televi­sion and Theatre student who cannot afford to attend Notre Dame. Sarkis, who organized the event with junior Chris Grunewald, said the dorm chose the charity because of 


see ROOF-SIT/page 4 

Career Center assists with A&L job planning 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Arts & Letters students looking to jump-start their career search can do so dur­ing the third annual “What’s Next?” Week of events devot­ed to helping liberal arts ma­jors find internships and jobs. 
The career week allows Arts & Letters students to learn about internships and explore graduate school and post­graduate service options, Ca­reer Center Director Lee Svete said. Students also have the opportunity to attend a mini-career fair on Thursday, Sept. 29, in which up to 15 employ­ers will participate. 
“Monday covers summer internships, our Job Shadow Program, Externship and Arts & Letters Boot Camp in the spring,” he said. “Tuesday is for graduate school, Wednes­day is a post-grad service fair and Thursday is the formal Employer Networking Fair.” 
Svete said the Career Center began “What’s Next?” Week three years ago in response to a weak job market. 
“In 2009, the job market was in peril after the eco­nomic meltdown, so we did ‘What’s Next?’ before Thanks­giving,” he said. “We found it was good for internships but a little late for graduate schools and jobs.” 
The Career Center moved the date so the events were held before Fall Break in order to accommodate the greatest number of application dead­lines, he said. 
“September turned out to be the sweet spot. You get your resume and talk to employ­ers,” Svete said. “Or you could begin applying for the funding created specifically for liberal arts majors early on.” 
Last year the Career Center gave away $100,000, tax free, to liberal arts majors, he said. 
see CAREER/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Keough knockout tournament attempts world record page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u ’The Way’ page 10 u Mike Lee wins match page 20 u Irish Insider 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE DRINK AT STARBUCKS? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Chris Weber  Erin Wright  Joe Robinson  Caroline Kelleher  Karyn Knecht  Ali Wellman  
freshman St. Edward’s  junior Pangborn  junior O’Neill  junior Welsh Family  senior Pangborn  freshman McGlinn  
“Peppermint mocha.”  “Peppermint hot chocolate.”  “I don’t know where to begin.”  “White Mocha.”  “Grande soy latte. Every  “Hot chocolate.”  
day.”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Trinity college removes fake professor biography 
DUBLIN — Talk about a tough professor. 
Trinity College in Dublin was spoofed Thursday when an unknown prankster post­ed an academic profile of its newest English lecturer: a certain Conan T. Barbar­ian, complete with Holly­wood mug shot of a shirtless, sword-clad Arnold Schwar­zenegger in his maiden film role. 
Trinity removed the paro­dy site - but not before doz­ens of fans had archived the Web page of the mock biog­raphy and turned it into an Irish viral sensation. 
Trinity spokeswoman Cao­imhe Ni Lochlainn said the university had never had its Web site disrupted like this before. She confirmed that Trinity was certain it was an inside job, not the work of a hacker. 

Dr. Barbarian’s Trinity profile contains a warrior’s feast of references to the ar­cane plot of the 1982 film, which was critically panned but a box-office hit that launched Schwarzenegger’s movie career. 
Conan’s stated classroom policy is to crucify students who cheat or show weak­ness. 
Trinity college removes fake professor biography 
GREENFIELD, Iowa — An Iowa couple have discovered an eerie presence in their pear tree, just in time for the Halloween season. 
Des Moines television sta­tion KCCI reports that Phil and JaNelle Lovely recently discovered a pumpkin that appears to be growing in the tree at their Greenfield home, 50 miles southwest of Des Moines. 
They say they have no idea how the pumpkin ended up in their tree, but it appears to be the work of Mother Na­ture. A nearby garden vine climbed the tree, giving the now-green pumpkin the ap­pearance of having sprouted from one the tree’s branches. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
The Interdisciplinary Cen­ter for the Study of Biocom­plexity will host the seminar “High Throughput and Mul­tiscale Patient-Specific Sys­tems Biology” in Room 127 of the Hayes-Healy center from 4 to 5 p.m. tonight. The seminar will be presented by Scott Diamond, director of the Penn Center for Mo­lecular Discovery at the Uni­versity of Pennsylvania. 
An information session for the inside-out program, hosted by the Center for Social Concerns, will take place in Geddes Hall begin­ning at 6 p.m. tonight. This spring semester course pro­vides an opportunity for in­side students (those current­ly incarcerated) and outside students (those from Notre Dame) to look together at is­sues related to criminal jus­tice in America. 
In Room C103 of the Hes-burgh Center for Interna­tional Studies, the lecture “After Violence: Partici­pation over Violence in Beslan” will take place from 
12:30 to 2 p.m. tomorrow. Debra Javeline, associate professor of political science, will give the lecture. The lec­ture is free and open to the public. 
William Saunders of Americans United for Life will address the Law School community, discussing the impending ‘San Jose Ar­ticles.’ The lecture will be held in Room 1140 of the Eck Hall of Law from 12:30 to 

1:30p.m. tomorrow. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed in­formation about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

TODAY’S STAFF  
News  Sports  
Sarah Felsenstein  Sam Gans  
Marisa Iati  Andrew Gastelum  
Christian Myers  Conor Kelly  
Graphics  Scene  
Dan Azic  Ankur Chawla  
Photo  Viewpoint  
Pat Coveney  Meghan  

Thomassen 


LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 












CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
HIGH 55 LOW 52 

HIGH 74 LOW 56 
HIGH 72 LOW 52 

HIGH 63 LOW 49 
HIGH 63 LOW 47 

Google employees discuss experiences 
By JULIA HARRIS 
News Writer 
Two Saint Mary’s College alumnae, Jennifer Bradburn and Mary Elizabeth Ulliman, visited Saint Mary’s College on Friday to speak with stu­dents about how they started their careers as Google exec­utives in digital advertising. 
Bradburn said Saint Mary’s prepared her well for her job with Google after gradua­tion. 
“You have to be scrappy and creative,” Bradburn said. “You have to be data-driven and confident. Con­fidence comes from within. I think these traits apply to many Saint Mary’s women.” 
Bradburn, a 2001 alumna, was one of the first employ­ees at Google. She is now an advertising executive in the company’s Chicago office. 
“Nobody was hiring,” Brad-burn said. “I would send 25 resumes everyday, deter­mined to land a job in public relations, but the only jobs I could find were in sales.” 
Google hired Bradburn in 2002 as the first entry-level member of its advertising of­fice. Bradburn said the com­pany began with five people and a futon couch. 
“I was faced with two of­fers, so I had a big decision to make,” Bradburn said. “One was Google, the other was Arthur Anderson. I didn’t want another failed start-up on my resume.” 
Arthur Anderson gave up its license to practice as a public accounting firm fol­lowing its connection to the Enron scandal of 2001. Af­ter 10 years of experience at Google, Bradburn said she “made a wise decision.” 
Mary Elizabeth Ulliman, a former business major and 2010 graduate, began her ca­reer at Google just last year. She works as an account manager in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
“When I came back to school senior year, I thought, ‘I have to find a job,’” Ulli­man said. “Google was the only place I applied to that I heard back from.” 
As a Google executive, Ulli­man said the best part of her job is the client interaction. 
“It’s really a fascinat­ing company,” Ulliman said. “We’re allowed to bring dogs to work. We get to meet really cool new people with differ­ent stories and experiences.” 
Both graduates offered ad­vice for students preparing for jobs after college. 
Ulliman stressed that stu­dents should not be afraid of challenges early in the job search process. 
“You’re going to find a job eventually,” she said. “For me it was a scenario of luck meets preparation.” 
Despite the stress of find­
ing  a  job,  Bradburn  said  
students  should  value  their  
years at Saint Mary’s.  

“Don’t waste a precious moment of your time at SMC worrying about your future,” she said. “Enjoy your present time.” 
Contact Julia Harris at jharri01@saintmarys.edu 

Tournament falls short of record 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 

Underneath the lights of South Quad on Friday evening, 221 members of the Notre Dame community tried to break the Guinness World Re­cord for most participants in a knockout basketball game. 
Keough Hall and the Stu­dent Activities Office (SAO) sponsored the event, Keough Hall Rector Fr. Pete McCor­mick said. 
The players and organizers were trying to break the re­cord of 379 participants set by Grace College in Winona Lake, Ind., on April 8, McCormick said. 
“Sadly, we did not reach that number, but we had a blast trying to get there,” he said. 
Keough helped advertise the event and provided the staff and DJ. SAO contrib­uted financial resources and knowledge about organizing the event. 
Event staff asked players to register when they arrived at the tournament so they could track the number of partici­pants. Each player received a wristband with a number written in Sharpie marker. The numbers were crossed off when players were “knocked out” of the game. 
McCormick said the knock­out tournament was inspired by a family tradition. 
“Each Thanksgiving, my grandma rents out a gym and we play knockout as a family,” he said. “I’ve always wanted to organize an event like this for my Notre Dame family.” 
McCormick completed an application to the Guinness World Record committee in early August. 
“While Guinness offers a free application online, they take four to six weeks to let you know if they are going to approve your attempt,” McCor­mick said. “When the tourna­ment took place, we were at just over five weeks but had not heard from them. If we broke the record, we were going to submit all the proof- signed waivers, video documentation and photos.” 
Freshman Carolyn Perez said she enjoyed playing in the tournament. 
“I think it’s really cool,” Per­ez said. “I like the atmosphere. Everyone is out here just to have fun.” 
Some participants said they were excited about the chance to break a world record. 

“I thought it’d be cool to be part of a world record if that actually ended up happening,” junior Sam Wright said. 
Other participants said their experience playing basketball was a factor in their decision to join the tournament. 
“I played basketball in high school, and I wanted to break a world record,” freshman Emily Flores said. 
The event was “a huge suc­cess,” McCormick said. 
“While we didn’t break the record, 221 people had a great time on a Friday night,” he said. “I’m confident that we will break this record in the years to come.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 


Roof-sit 
continued from page 1 
its close connection with Fisher Hall. 
Between Thursday and Sat­urday, the men of Fisher Hall spent 50 hours on the dorm’s roof blasting music, wielding bullhorns, collecting money for the foundation and engaging in “good-natured panhandling,” Sarkis said. 
Sarkis said the spectacle drew campus visitors to do­nate. 
“Notre Dame people are re­ally great about giving mon­ey,” Sarkis said. “With football weekends, there are so many people wandering around cam­pus. We raise more money be­cause people hear about it and want to know what we’re doing with the loud music and the ob­noxious things.” 
This year’s roof-sit included new events, including Acousti­cafe on the roof and a showing of the movie “Land Before Time 3,” Grunewald said. 
“The more events we can in­corporate with the roof-sit, the more successful it is,” he said. 
Rockstar Energy Drink and Spikeball, a popular ball game, also sponsored the roof-sit. 
More than 100 Fisher resi­dents took shifts on the roof, and Grunewald said a few members of the dorm braved colder temperatures to sleep there overnight. 
“A bunch of guys brought out mattresses and sleeping bags,” he said, “and lots of layers and coats.” 
The roof-sit began in 2002 in memory of Chad Sharon, a former Fisher resident who died in the same year. Fifty hours were chosen in honor of the dorm’s 50th anniversary in 2002. 
Each year, the event benefits a different charity chosen by the students.  Last year’s roof-sit earned more than $10,000 for earthquake relief in Haiti. 
“It’s grown every year,” Grunewald said. 
Grunewald said the roof-sit helps unite an already close-knit dorm. 
“It’s events like these where everyone wants to participate that brings Fisher closer to­gether,” he said. “Most Notre Dame students want to contrib­ute to events, but this is a fun event where everyone wants to just hang out with each other … Everyone helps in getting it done.” 
In addition to being a seri­ous fundraiser, Sarkis said the roof-sit is something the Fish­ermen look forward to. 
“It’s a total bro-sesh,” he said. “You get to play music. You’re up on the roof danc­ing, and you’ve got your best friends up there.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 




Students participate in walk for diabetes research 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Instead of sleeping in after a victorious football Saturday, 14 students got out of bed early Sunday morning to raise mon­ey for the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation (JDRF). 
The students participated in the JDRF Diabetes walk at nearby Beutter Park in Mish­awaka. Junior Joe Williams helped to organize Team Notre Dame. 
“I’m a Type 1 diabetic,” Wil­liams said. “So were a lot of other people doing the walk, or they knew people with Type 1.” 
While 14 students actually participated in the walk, Wil­liams said many more donated to the team through a Face­book group and JDRF’s web­site. 
“In total, we raised over $2,000 for the foundation,” Williams said. “It was really great.” 
Junior Gina O’Riordan sug­gested Notre Dame participate in the walk last semester. 
“I usually do the walk at home with my family,” O’Riordan said. “It started with my grade school, and then in high school we started a family team.” 
The event also included games of cornhole and free massages, Williams said. 
“There were also a lot of companies there representing and displaying some of their diabetes-related projects,” he said. 
Athletes from the men’s hockey team, the women’s ten­nis team and the women’s la­crosse team also attended the event to support Team Notre Dame. 
O’Riordan said Notre Dame’s first-time participation in the event was a success. 
“It’s always fun because you raise money obviously for a cure, but it’s also nice because you get to see the support you have,” O’Riordan said. “You see everyone really wants to be there for you.” 
This year, Williams and O’Riordan founded Notre Dame’s Diabetes Support Group, which helps diabetic students as they transition from high school to college.” 
“That’s really the reason the group started. I want to support people with diabe­tes,” Williams said. “It’s really helpful to have someone there to talk to.” 


Although spreading the word about the walk was dif­ficult for the fledgling group, O’Riordan said the event would probably be bigger in coming years. 
“A lot of kids don’t share that they have diabetes,” O’Riordan said. “It’s not one of those things you can look and know. I think once kids know that students and their friends have diabetes, they’ll definite­ly come out and have a good time.” 
The first meeting for the Di­abetes Support Group will be Monday at 8 p.m. in Room 300 of Saint Liam Hall. 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 

SMC Alumnae Association hosts “Welcome Home” tailgate 
By ABIGAIL FORNEY as a way to say, “Welcome News Writer Home.” 
“Alumnae can come and see 

Saint Mary’s Alumnae As-people they know and meet sociation invited alumnae new people,” Dawn Parker, a and students to tailgate on 1981 graduate and lead orga­campus Saturday morning nizer of the event, said. 

Saturday marked the Alum­ni “Welcome Home” Tailgate’s third year, and the turnout was much better than last year, according to Shari Ro­driguez, vice president of Col­lege Relations. 
“Last year it rained, so ev­eryone came and stayed in­side, but now people are com­ing and going, and there are a lot more students here,” Ro­driguez said at the event. 
Parker said the tailgate was a fun way to end a week full of annual board meetings and panels that had a more seri­ous tone, both for the Alum­nae Board and students. It also provides a necessary re­source for current students. 
“Students don’t realize that alumnae want to help,” Liz Leeuw, a senior and student chair on the Alumnae Board, said. 
As alumnae and current students mingled, alumnae expressed interest in stu­dents’ majors and career goals, giving advice and pro-
Win 
continued from page 1 
unite in song,” Paz said. 
Freshman Katie Bascom said she felt the crowd’s spirit during her first full game in Notre Dame stadium. 
“The only thing that we in the freshman student section have in common is that we are freshmen,” Bascom said, “But we all join arms in joy for the Irish-jig to celebrate our suc­cess and again in respect for the ‘Alma Mater.’ Win or lose, ‘Our hearts forever love thee Notre Dame.’” 
While Saturday’s game was not her first Irish win, junior Leah Bernardi agreed that the energy in the student section added to the thrill of the vic­tory. 
“It was exciting to finally be able to do some push-ups,” Bernardi said. 
Contact Vienna Wagner at vwagner2@nd.edu 
viding the names of other alumnae students might con­tact. 
“I never thought that I’d be president of the Dallas Alumnae Club when I was in school. I couldn’t look that far in the future,” alumna Linda 
Kawecki, a  1979  graduate,  
said.  
Some  students  said  the  

conversations they had with alumnae were invaluable. 
“It’s really good to know [the alumnae stories] because I’m scared, and I have no idea what I’m going to do,” junior Theresa Nucciarone said. 
The Alumnae Association has started a mentor pro­gram and also works with the Career Crossings Office to maintain a database of grad­uates, in addition to a page on LinkedIn, Parker added. 
Not all talk was business. Kawecki said she and oth­ers came to the tailgate and caught up with roommates on their time at Saint Mary’s, telling current students sto­ries from when they lived on campus. 
The alumnae added that it was good to be back on cam­pus amid the various activi­ties the weekend provided. 
“It would be weird to be on campus and be lazy,” 2005 graduate Sarah Brown said. 
The event also provided food and drink for everyone, including many Notre Dame alumni. Future Belles dressed in Saint Mary’s cheerleading uniforms. Bellacapella, the campus acapella group, also performed, singing popular songs and ending with “The Notre Dame Victory March” and “The Bells of Saint Mary’s.” 
President Carol Ann Mooney addressed the alumni after Bellacapella’s performance. “Welcome home, please come visit often,” she said. “You bring the party to us. Wel­come home to Saint Mary’s.” 
Contact Abigail Forney at aforne02@saintmarys.edu 


Career 
continued from page 1 
Students do not claim it on their income tax returns be­cause it is used for food, travel and work expenses. 
“For example, you might find an editorial position and apply,” Svete said. “If you get an interview but they can’t pay you, then you come to us, describe the unpaid intern­ship and apply for say, $3000.” 
To land these positions, Arts & Letters students need to prepare for their interviews, Svete said. Students in the past prepared for mock in­terviews with Career Center counselors. This year 1000 students have already gone to the Career Center for aid, he said. 
To check resumes and meet with counselors, students can use walk-ins or reserve one-hour appointments by call­ing the Career Center. Svete said interview practice will be beneficial Thursday night, when students arrive in busi­ness formal attire to meet companies. 
“A 30-second elevator speech — where you introduce yourself, say what you know about the company and how your skills and experiences will contribute — will make them remember you,” Svete said. “Research the compa­nies in advance, have a port­folio with resumes and be pre­pared to show your interest.” 
Junior Collin Erker, a dou­ble major in film, television and theatre and an Arts & Letters pre-professional, is one student hoping to capture the attention of the companies at the Arts & Letters career fair. 
“I wanted to see who was out there and what catches my eye,” he said. “Summer internships are extremely important to gain a sense of what you’re into.” 
Erker said he was definitely interested in media intern­ships, though scientific re­search interested him as well. 
“I plan on getting my resume checked,” he said. “There’s al­ways room to improve. I want to get experience in finding an internship, knowing the process and seeing what op­portunities there are.” 
Sophomore Melissa Halli­han said she hopes to find out what internships are avail­able to her through the Arts & Letters program. Though her primary major is busi­ness, she is interested in in­ternships based on her second major, anthropology. 
“I don’t really know a lot about the internship appli­cation process, resources, externships or job shadow­ing available through Notre Dame,” Hallihan said. “I’m hoping this will provide me with more information.” 


Svete said career opportu­nities for many Arts & Let­ters majors are not open to students until they approach graduation. However, he add­ed that students should not wait to start meeting employ­ers. 
“Start networking now,” Svete said. “That’s the reason we created this week. We’re creating venues for students to network for career oppor­tunities.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 

Obama proposes deficit plan 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Drawing a bright line with congressional Republicans, President Barack Obama is proposing $1.5 tril­lion in new tax revenue as part of his long-term deficit reduc­tion plan, according to senior administration officials. 
The president on Monday will announce a proposal that includes repeal of Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthiest taxpayers, nearly $250 bil­lion in reductions in Medicare spending, $330 billion in cuts in other mandatory benefit programs, and savings of $1 trillion from the withdrawal of troops from Iraq and Afghani­stan, the officials said. 
The plan includes no chang­es in Social Security and does not include an increase in the Medicare eligibility age, which the president had considered this summer. 
The officials briefed report­ers Sunday evening, but spoke on the condition of anonymity in advance of the president’s announcement. 
All in all, the president’s plan is as much an opening bid as it is a political statement designed to draw contrasts with Republicans, who control the House of Representatives. 
As such, it was not intended as a compromise and did not include agreements Obama had reached with House Speaker John Boehner during failed deficit reduction nego­tiations this summer. 

The new taxes in particu­lar have little or no chance of passing Congress as proposed. Republicans were already lin­ing up against the president’s tax proposal before they even knew the magnitude of what he intended to recommend. 
Key features of the proposal: 

—$1.5 trillion in new rev­enue, which would include about $800 billion realized over 10 years from repeal­ing the Bush-era tax rates for couples making more than $250,000. It also would place limits on deductions for wealthy filers and end certain corporate loopholes and subsi­dies for oil and gas companies. 
—$580 billion in cuts in mandatory benefit programs, including $248 billion in Medicare and $72 billion in Medicaid and other health programs. Other mandatory benefit programs include farm subsidies. 
—$430 billion in savings from lower interest payment on the national debt. 
By adding about $1 trillion in spending cuts already en­acted by Congress and count­ing about $1 trillion in savings from the drawdown of mili­tary forces from Iraq and Af­ghanistan, the combined defi­cit reduction would total more than $4 trillion over 10 years, senior administration officials said. 
Obama backed away from proposing sweeping changes to Medicare, following the ad­vice of fellow Democrats that it would only give political cover to a privatization plan sup­ported by House Republicans that turned to be unpopular with older Americans. 
Administration officials said 90 percent of the $248 bil­lion in 10-year Medicare cuts would be squeezed from ser­vice providers. The plan does shift some additional costs to beneficiaries, but those chang­es would not start until 2017, and administration officials made clear as well that Obama would veto any Medicare cuts that aren’t paired with tax increases on upper-income people. 
The deficit reduction plan represents an economic book­end to the $447 billion in tax cuts and new public works spending that Obama has pro­posed as a short-term mea­sure to stimulate the economy and create jobs. He’s submit­ting his deficit fighting plan to a special joint committee of Congress that is charged with recommending how to reduce deficits by $1.2 trillion to $1.5 trillion over 10 years. 
Republicans have ridiculed the war savings as gimmicky, but House Republicans in­cluded them in their budget proposal this year and House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, had agreed to count them as savings during debt ceiling negotiations with Obama this summer. 

Plane in air show crash altered for high speed 
Associated Press 
RENO, Nev. — The World War II-era plane that plummeted into an air-race crowd like a missile bore little resemblance to its original self. It was rebuilt for speed, if not for stability. 
The 65-year-old “Galloping Ghost” underwent years of mas­sive overhauls that took a full 10 feet off its wingspan. The ai­lerons — the back edges of the main wings used to control bal­ance — were cut from about 60 inches to 32. 
Pilot Jimmy Leeward had said the changes made the P-51 Mus­tang faster and more maneuver­able, but in the months before Friday’s crash even he wasn’t certain exactly how it would perform. 
“I know it’ll do the speed,” he said in a podcast uploaded to YouTube in June. “The sys­tems aren’t proven yet. We think they’re going to be OK.” 
Investigators don’t yet know what caused the plane to pitch sharply into the crowd at the National Championship Air Rac­es in Reno, killing nine people, including Leeward, and injur­ing dozens. They have focused on the “elevator trim tab” — a piece of the tail that helps the aircraft maintain lift and ap­peared to break off before the crash. While investigators did not identify the items, the NTSB released a photo late Sunday of two board officials at the crash site with items they said were part of the investigation. 
In the highly competitive, bra­vado-filled world of air racing, pilots go for broke on the ground and in the sky, hitting speeds of 500 mph. Leeward is the 20th pilot to die at the air races since they began 47 years ago, but Friday’s crash was the first in which spectators were killed. 
“Pilots are a special breed of confident, intelligent, driven perfectionists,” said Ken Quick, a commercial airline pilot and a crew member for one of the teams that raced Friday. “They know what they do is dangerous and demanding, and they eager­ly embrace both.” 
Leeward’s own website al­ludes to the dangers — and bragging rights. 
“These guys are always on the edge knowing one wrong move, in one split second, could mean the end,” the Leeward Air Ranch Racing Team website says. 
“NASCAR at 200 mph? Indy at 230 mph? Top Fuel at 300 mph? Mere Childs play. Welcome to the Big League.” 
Leeward had said the plane underwent several years of modifications before Friday’s race, including lopping five feet off each wing, but he hadn’t re­vealed many of the specifics. In the podcast, he called some of the changes “extremely radi­cal,” compared some to systems on the space shuttle and ex­plained that he had increased the plane’s speed capabilities to be more like those of a modern fighter jet. 
“To control the airplane in the wind, and in different circum­stances if anything happens, you need those types of speeds. You need jet speeds,” he said. 
Leeward was rounding a bend at dizzying speeds Friday when his plane took an oddly upward pitch, narrowly miss­ing the packed grandstand. It then twirled just a few hundred feet off the ground and nose­dived into a section of VIP box seats, blasting out a 3-foot-deep, 8-foot-wide crater in a hail of metal, chairs and body parts. 
Noah Joraanstad was blown off his feet as he tried to run away. Shrapnel hit his back, and he was covered in aviation fuel that burned his skin as specta­tors tried to wash it off. 
From his bed Sunday at Northern Nevada Medical Cen­ter, where nine stitches were put in his head, Joraanstad said that when he looked back at the wreck, the plane was just gone. 
“The biggest pieces I could see, it looked like just someone sprinkled Legos in every direc­tion,” said the 25-year-old, a commercial pilot from Alaska. 
Officials said 69 people were treated at hospitals, including 36 who have been released. Six remained in critical condition Sunday. 
Four of the spectators killed have been identified so far: George Hewitt, 60, and Wendy Hewitt, 57, a married couple from Fort Mojave, Ariz.; Greg Morcom of Washington state; and Michael Wogan, 22, of Scott­sdale, Ariz. 
Memory cards that may have come from the plane were found at the scene. The Galloping Ghost had a camera that faced outward, and the NTSB said the cards will be analyzed to see if there is any video. 

Palestinians bid for recognition from UN 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK — With a tense week ahead for the future of the Middle East, the United States and Europe scrambled Sunday for a strategy that would help avoid a jarring showdown over whether to admit an indepen­dent Palestine as a new United Nations member. Instead, they sought to guide Israel and the Palestinians back into the tough bargaining on a long-sought peace agreement. 
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and EU foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton discussed the current trajec­tory in New York, in which the Palestinian plan to gain state­hood and membership at the 
U.N. would run headfirst into an American veto in the Securi­ty Council, and possible Israeli recriminations. 
Yet there was no apparent and immediate solution to the many problems that have hin­dered Mideast peace efforts for months. Diplomats were work­ing feverishly as part of an increasingly desperate effort to guide the two parties back into direct negotiations, but were tight-lipped on whether the slim chances for a break­through were improving. 
“We are meeting to talk about the way forward,” Clinton said as she shook hands with Ash­ton in a New York hotel. She de­clined to say if mediators were making progress. 
The Palestinians are frus­trated by their inability to win from Israel concessions such as a freeze on settlements in the West Bank and east Jeru­salem. And with violence out of the question and bilateral talks with Israel failing, they see the 
U.N. route as the only viable route for progress in the short term. 
To address the Palestinian concerns, Western officials were discussing the possibility of including some timeframes, however vague, in any state­ment put out by the Mideast peace mediators — the U.S., EU, U.N. and Russia — known as the Quartet, officials said. These would focus on the re­start of Israeli-Palestinian talks and signs of tangible progress. 
Envoys from all four gath­ered Sunday in New York and 
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon met with Quartet envoy Tony Blair. A further meeting of Quartet officials was planned for Monday, officials said, with Ashton possibly presenting some ideas to Palestinian Presi­dent Mahmoud Abbas on the same day. 
The timeframes wouldn’t be deadlines, as such, but would seem to address the Palestin­ian desire to see quick action. The offer would come with an unchanged message that Wash­ington would veto a Palestin­ian bid at the Security Council for U.N. recognition and mem­bership, but at the very least it would represent a dignity-sav­ing compromise for Abbas’ U.S.­backed government. 

The alternative concern is that an embarrassment for his government would embolden Hamas, which the U.S. and Is­rael consider a terrorist organi­zation and which would be far less eager to negotiate a two-state settlement with the Jew­ish nation. 
The irony is that only 12 months ago, President Barack Obama said he wanted the U.N. to be welcoming Palestine as its newest member this year. But talks broke down long ago, and the U.S. is in the unenviable po­sition of leading the opposition to something it actually sup­ports, fearful a Palestinian vic­tory might cause a debilitating rift with Israel and set the talks back further. 
American officials were working to secure additional opposition to recognition, of­ficials said. Without nine affir­mative votes in the 15-member Council, the Palestinian resolu­tion would fail and Washington wouldn’t have to act alone. 
U.S. officials believe six other members may vote against or abstain, meaning the Palestin­ians would fall short. That tally could not be immediately con­firmed. 
Heading off or watering down the Palestinian resolution had been the goal of international diplomats. If they can accom­plish that, they hope to parlay it into a meeting between the Israeli and Palestinian lead­ers where the two sides would re-launch negotiations. But the Palestinians have refused to back down and give up the little leverage they hope to win. 
“The aim of this is try to el­evate the Palestinians to a more equal footing so that this dis­parity that existed over the last 18 years, which allowed Israel to exploit it to its advantage, can end and they can talk now to an equal member state of the United Nations,” said Maen Rashid Areikat, the Palestin­ians’ top representative to the U.S. 
Areikat told CNN’s “State of the Union” on Sunday that the Palestinians could accept an alternative, but it must include “clear terms of reference to re­turn to the negotiations, clear time frame and an endgame.” 

page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, September 19, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
To my brother 

Sept. 19: 262nd day of the year (263rd in leap years) in the Gregorian calendar; Armed Forces Day in Chile; a Christian Feast day for six saints; the day Charlie Chaplin was refused reentry into the US in 1952 until he had been investigated; International Talk Like a Pirate Day; and the day the new season of How I Met Your Mother premieres. 

I think the last Nicole Toczauer two make it an absolutely fantas-News Writer tic day. 
I even typed it into iTunes out of sheer curiosity — lo and behold, there’s even a folk jazz-fusion song dedicated to the day. 
Despite the musical interpretation and impressive list Wikipedia provides when you type Sept. 19 into Google, the 19th of September will always be, first and foremost, the day my brother was born. 
A few days after Chris came into the world, my parents picked my sister and me up from the day care that had taken us in during the big day. 
I don’t really remember it well, but my parents gave us two tiny tumbling dolls and said my brother had gotten them just for us. Then we all drove back to the house only to be greeted by Sebastian, our German shepherd (aka the best dog ever). 
Everyone was finally home. 

Over the years, my brother has trans­formed from a platinum blond haired toddler to a kid who tore apart elec­tronics (and couldn’t always put them back together) to a six-foot however-tall-he-is-now-inch teenager who cre­ates and sells his own iPhone apps. 
Today I would like to say “happy birthday” when he blows out the candles. But since I’m not home, and I get this column to do whatever I want with, I’ll write him this: 
Chris, you’re the best brother ever 
— you never went through the obnox­ious kid phase or seemed plagued by preteen angst. 
Sure, I was afraid I’d come home to find random holes drilled into your wall and electrical wires were every­where or that you’d built a mini-taser. You learned how to build things very quickly. When I saw you reading mas­sive programming books, though, I was surprised. You were really dedicating yourself. 
Then you started making games and eventually got some iPhone Apps together. Even when you were told you were too young, you kept going in what­ever way you could. Now you’ve got two on the market and know the ins-and­outs of the App market better than any other fellow your age. 
I am so, so proud of you. 

So I suppose this applies to every­one with a brother or sister when I say this — if you haven’t contacted them in a while, give them a call today. Send a text, a carrier pigeon, smoke signals — whatever it is, and just let them know you love them. Let them know you’re proud of them and why you’re proud of them. They deserve it. 
Because I know one thing for sure — I’ve got an awesome brother. Happy birthday Chris. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at      ntoczaue@nd.edu 

DNB solutions to grow the economy 
  During the summer, I drafted an op-ed about an economic agenda that President Obama could propose to help the American economy. The agenda was not simply Republican tax cuts 
or Democratic  
spending ideas,  Adam Newman  
but more nu­ 
anced solutions  Scientia  
that reflect the  Potentia Est  
two major chal­ 
lenges President  

Obama faces in passing any legislation: 
(1) an unsustainable national debt that has made additional deficit spending politically toxic and (2) an ultra-con­servative Republican Party unwilling to compromise. 
If President Obama wants an eco­nomic agenda to pass Congress, he needs to ensure the agenda does not increase the deficit and that every solution within the agenda has gained Republican support in the past. 
These solutions are therefore titled “deficit neutral and bipartisan,” or DNB for short. Below are five examples of DNB solutions that President Obama could lead on to help the ailing econo­my. 
1. Comprehensive tax reform. 
The current U.S. tax code is com­plex and inefficient due to a myriad of loopholes and exemptions. Tax rates could be significantly decreased and the tax code simplified if many of these loopholes and exemptions were deleted from the code. This would lead to a more effective allocation of resources, increased investment from home and abroad, a more level playing field for businesses and a simpler tax return process. As long as increased revenue from the closed loopholes and exemp­tions offset the decrease in revenue from lower tax rates, tax reform could be deficit neutral. 
2. Recruiting and retaining highly skilled immigrants. 
During a weak economy, America should make recruiting and retaining highly skilled immigrants a top prior-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

ity. America should increase the cap on visas for foreign high-skilled workers, offer any immigrant who graduates from an American college permanent residency and streamline the burden­some immigration system. 
Recruiting and retaining more high-skilled immigrants would be a boon to the American economy. What do AT&T, Verizon, Google, Goldman Sachs, Intel and Kraft all have in common? Each is a Fortune 500 company that was either founded or co-founded by an im­migrant. Opening America up to more high-skilled immigrants will lead to a stronger American workforce and an increased number of start-ups. 
3.
 Signing outstanding free trade agreements. 

Currently, free trade agreements between America and three countries, Colombia, South Korea and Panama, are written but pending Congres­sional approval. These agreements would allow America to better compete overseas by lowering tariffs and other barriers. Other countries have taken advantage of America’s political dys­function. A trade deal between South Korea and the European Union became effective on Jul. 1, while a deal between Canada and Colombia became effective on Jul. 15. The longer Congress waits, the harder it will be for American ex­porters to compete in these countries. 

4.
 Replacing long-term with short-term investment. 


Even though America needs to cut spending in the long-term, it still needs economic stimulus in the short-term for a stronger recovery. These two goals can be achieved by first implement­ing the President’s fiscal commission’s deficit reduction plan, “The Moment of Truth.” This proposal is balanced, bi­partisan and gradually cuts $4 trillion from deficits over the next decade. Half the savings should be used to pay down the debt and the other half should be used for increased economic stimulus through tax cuts, infrastructure spend­ing and other critical investments. 
5. Minimize political uncertainty. 
During an economic recovery, Washington should minimize politi­cal uncertainty. Political uncertainty is when policies related to important issues are unclear in the near future. Political certainty is important because investors are more likely to invest capi­tal and businesses are more likely to create jobs when the political climate is certain. Currently, “certain” does not accurately describe America’s political system. 
Uncertainty was created by political fights over the extension of the Bush tax cuts in winter 2010, funding the government in spring 2011 and rais­ing the debt ceiling in summer 2011. Better negotiations, more compromise and less procrastination can end much of the political uncertainty that both parties have created over the past two years. 
As I was finishing this op-ed in late August, President Obama announced he would address the nation on his new economic plan, providing me an oppor­tunity to compare my ideas with those of the President. 
But as I watched the President’s speech, I realized the agenda he offered uses the two DNB principles. 
By offering a DNB economic agenda, President Obama reasserted himself as the center-left pragmatist that Americans voted for in 2008. But as the saying goes, “it takes two to tango.” DNB solutions will only work if the Republicans can compromise with the President on an economic agenda. Compromise will only happen if the Republican Party makes their number one goal assisting the millions of unem­ployed today, instead of beating Barack Obama in 2012. 
Adam Newman is a junior finance major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The reason why worry kills more people than work is that more people worry than work.” 
Robert Frost 
U.S. poet 


WEEKLY POLL 
What kind of phone do you own? 
Android Blackberry iPhone Dumb phone 

Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Monday, September 19, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Politics and evolution: who cares? 
Dear GOP presidential hopefuls and political pundits: I would like to respect­fully ask you to discontinue your talks on evolution as a political discussion and shift the debate to issues that, well … matter. It’s not that the issue doesn’t John Sandberg make for entertain­ing debate so much Guest Columnist as I (and presum­ably most people) would prefer to listen to the next President of the United States talk about things that might have some meaningful effect on my life. Come to think of it, the debate itself is not entertaining either, but that’s beside the point. 
Until recently I was certain that all of the attention I would give to human evo­lution was wrapped up in my fifth grade science class at St. Mary’s Elementary: a bajillion years ago human beings were not actually human beings, but basically monkeys, and over time we morphed into the creatures that we are today. 
But what about Adam and Eve? The Creation Story illustrated in the Book of Genesis may not be a scientific account of the creation of human beings, but it is nonetheless significant in its message of God’s care, love and purpose for creat­ing human beings. So Genesis might not actually be a true story? Scientifi­cally speaking, no. But what is true is the portrayal of God as the Creator of all things and that human beings were made in His image, something unique to us alone. Considering this, whether or not we began as homo-sapiens or yet-to­evolve humans is seemingly irrelevant. 
So, I can believe in evolution AND God? Absolutely. Cool … hey, I think mom packed Gushers in my lunch today! 
It all seemed reasonable enough to me. Little did I know this would turn out to be a hot political issue. We have Jon Huntsman on attack in the Sept. 12 GOP debate, accusing his opponents of calling “into question the science of evolution.” Then there is Gov. Rick Perry, accused of “not believing in science” for stating that evolution is a theory that “has some gaps in it,” and Rep. Michele Bachman, say­ing only that she believes in “intelligent design,” but not necessarily evolution. Finally, there are the left-leaning per­sonalities who have taken this discord in the Republican Party as an opportu­nity to call it the “Anti-Science” Party … zing! Nerd trash-talk at its finest. 
The U.S. Supreme Court decided in 1987 that teaching creationism in public schools is unconstitutional, as it promotes a particular religion. It does 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Return with honor 
Mr. Cohen, 

On Sept. 14 (“A 9/11 commemoration,” Sept. 14), you objected to The Observer’s use of the phrase “defend our freedom,” referring to the actions of our troops engaged in the Middle East. While I respect your right to opine on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, I must protest how you turned your complaint against the student newspaper into a diatribe against national politics and the military. 
It seems you are unable to separate the soldiers fighting overseas from the political objectives (or lack thereof, you believe) they are fighting to achieve. The invasion of Iraq, you say, was “misguided, unprovoked,” while the politics in­volved were “ill-defined and indefinite.” Regardless of why America is involved in the Middle East, the troops do not set policy. They are given orders and ac­complish them at great risk to their lives, limbs and mental health which, sadly, you do not view as sacrifices. Do not foist your irritation with the government upon them. They are performing a difficult job the best they can and beyond expectations. 
Your greatest error, though, lies in this sentence: “So let’s honor members of the military for their courage and honor when they demonstrate it, as they often do, in a just cause.” 
Until now, you held that the current wars were unjustified. Unjustified. If ev­ery military action of the past decade was part of an unjust war, then how, by your logic, can the military be honored? Again, you conflate troops with na­tional politics. 
Our soldiers are honorable whether or not the cause is just. Later, you state that America should offer soldiers sympathy, not hero worship. They want nei­ther. They chose to fight-— do not patronize them with sympathy. All they want is to know that the country they are fighting to protect will still welcome them home. Our military is not interchangeable with political goals. They fight to achieve them, but they are not equivalent. Take your anger out on the politi­cians who put America on what you call a “nonsensical mission” and who make “wrongheaded decision[s].” Keep the troops out of your misguided line of fire. 
Shayler C. Pierson Class of 2012 Commander, Detachment 225, Air Force ROTC Sept. 15 

not appear that this decision is going to be repealed any time soon, so why is it still discussed in a political race tak­ing place nearly a quarter of a century after the ruling was made? Social issues become popular in any presidential campaign, and the Republican candi­dates can expect to win some votes from the socially-conservative right wing by taking conservative stances on a variety of social issues. Evolution qualifies as one of those issues. As for me, I would rather hear a candidate tell me what he or she is going to do when elected that will have some practical results in the country. An immediate revision of 1987’s Edwards v. Aguillard seems unlikely fol­lowing the 2012 election. 
If the self-proclaimed leaders of the country want to talk about education, then let’s talk about education. Let’s talk about the fact that the United States has continually finished behind China and a host of other countries in the OECD’s Program for International Student As­sessment. 
Let’s talk about “the brutal truth that we’re being out-educated,” as Education Secretary Arne Duncan put it, and let’s talk about what we can do to stop it. Let’s talk about the sky rocketing costs of a college education, where $30,000 tuition is moderate. On that note, let’s talk about the absurd price of text books, and why three amended pages in Chapter 11 and a revised prologue constitutes a new $75 edition, rendering last year’s $65 version of the same book archaic. Let’s talk about affirmative ac­tion. Let’s talk about school vouchers for private education. Let’s talk about why no changes have been made in school districts throughout the country that have now had shoddy high school gradu­ation rates for decades. 
It doesn’t take a Notre Dame student to understand what is relevant when it comes to this issue. Any student can tell you what the nut-and-bolts of education are, and none of them include nonsensi­cal talks of creationism vs. evolution. So, 2012 Republican nominee, please grant this constituent a favor and do what you claim to do best: Be a leader and guide this debate in the right direction. 
John Sandberg is a sophomore English major from Littleton, Colo. He is a fan of the Chicago Cubs, Dave Matthews Band and good Mexican food. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Rally all of Notre Dame 
The “greatest of all university fight songs,” the Notre Dame Victory March, is a power­ful expression of school spirit, but it does not currently reflect the totality of the Notre Dame student body and athletic teams. 
Composed in the early 1900s, the Notre Dame Victory March was not intended to be the university’s official fight song, but an example for future composers.  Now performed at all university athletic events, the song was composed before the rise of Notre Dame football, when baseball was much more popular. At the time of the song’s authorship, the lyrics reflected the all-male student body. The lyrics were not updated following the admission of women in 1972, though the song was subsequently used at women’s ath­letic events.  We believe that the Victory March should be made more gender-inclusive by replacing male-oriented language with gender-inclusive language. We suggest replac­ing “Rally sons of Notre Dame” with either “ones” or “all of Notre Dame,” and “while her loyal sons are marching onward to victory” with “loyal ones” or “loyal sons and daugh­ters march on to victory.” These changes would reestablish the original intention of the Victory March: to represent all students and athletes. 
Some may argue that altering the Victory March would constitute an impermissible break with tradition. However, since the Victory March was first published, the lyrics have already undergone some minor changes. Though some students and alumni may feel that altering the Victory March is too progressive, we argue that this is an oppor­tunity for the university to affirm its commitment to gender inclusiveness and human dignity. When the university publishes the lyrics of the Victory March, they are accom­panied by a footnote stating that some have adopted a gender-inclusive version of the song, although no actual modifications are printed in or below the text. Although the first verse of the Victory March remains under copyright, the second verse of the Victory March is part of the public domain. We therefore encourage the university to publish a modified version of the second verse and the student body to embrace the modified lyr­ics of both verses. 
Kyla Wargel senior Lyons Hall Sept. 11 
Cody Gaffney senior Keough Hall Sept. 11 

Eating responsibly in the dining hall 
First, I must agree with you (“Let them eat bread,” Sept. 15) that the monitor’s action, in that particular incident at South Dining Hall, is a bit overboard. Most em­ployees at South Dining Hall that I have met are generally very nice towards students. 
During my freshman year, I once walked out with two apples in my hand because I did not know the policy “take one item with you.” However, the lady at the door just pointed me to the policy written on a sign and let me go with two apples. 
Second, I think that your call to re-examine the above policy and your fear of “back­pack checks and strip searches” are unfounded. The university is actually preventing food waste by limiting the consumption of dining hall food to just inside of the dining hall. If students think they can take out some food, they would take as much as they can, and then waste it in their dorm rooms. 
This actually happened to me and my roommates during the final exam week. We stocked up on all kinds of fruit from the dining hall in our fridge and in the end no one would eat them. 
I think this situation is quite common. How many times did you think you would eat that leftover food from the restaurant, and in the end forgot about it? The policy, as it is now, causes students to be aware of how much they are getting on their tray. However, they are still wasting a lot of food. 
The university cannot prevent food waste in both the dining hall and our dorm rooms, so they are doing their best by focusing on the dining hall and by implement­ing the current policy. We should support the university by eating more responsibly at the dining hall. 
The need for late night snacks can be solved with Flex Points, because many of us never use up our Flex Points anyway. 
Regards, 
Do TrangThanh sophomore Alumni Hall Sept. 15 



By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Scene Editor 

Father and son team Emilio Estevez and Martin Sheen have been on a pilgrimage of their own in the last month, promoting their new film, “The Way.” The movie, written and directed by Estevez and starring Sheen, be­gan its journey in California several weeks ago and will end with a benefit screening for The Walkabout Foundation on Oct. 5 in New York City. The Walkabout Foundation provides heavy-duty wheelchairs to people in need in third-world countries with unde­veloped roads. Though their bus tour takes them to all parts of the country, one stop was non-negotiable — Notre Dame. 
Sheen, who was honored with the Notre Dame Laetare Medal in 2008, had never been to a home football game. In an inter­view with The Observer, Estevez said, “So we had the Oct. 5 date, and then I said Sept. 17 is when Notre Dame plays MSU, so we need to be there on the 17th. So whatever date we leave, whether it’s Sept. 1 or Au­gust, whatever, you pick it, we need to be at Notre Dame by the 17th.” 
It’s not just about the football, though. Both Estevez and Sheen felt strongly that their film needed to play before the Notre Dame community. 
“We think you guys get it,” Estevez said. “We think that you guys will get the themes of the film … This campus celebrates faith and community, and that is really what the movie is all about.” 
David Alexanian, the film’s producer, is quick to point out that “The Way” is a spiri­tual film, which doesn’t necessarily mean religious. 
“The film, though set on a very important religious landmark, isn’t very religious,” he said. “It’s spiritual.” 
Sheen added, “We didn’t want to hit you over the head with it … but if people are open and receptive to the transcendent na­ture of pilgrimage, it has a double wallop you know, because it becomes deeply per­sonal.” 
Sheen, a vocal Catholic activist, won’t deny that his own religious beliefs did in­fluence the film. 
“I love it. I’m nurtured and I identify my­self with the demands of the faith because I was raised Catholic, and then faded away and then came back 30 years ago,” Sheen said. “But I came back to the church of social justice, of people and social justice, activism … So the last 30 years have been by far the most difficult in my life because of the commitment to social justice, but equally the happiest because I believe that if something is of value, it has to cost you something. 
“There’s no way I could separate that identification from myself, that immersion in my own faith, but I don’t expect to save the world or anybody in it,” he added. “The only reason I do it is for myself. I’m the only one that I can change. I’m the only one that I have any influence over and that’s difficult enough. I have to change, if anything. I do it for myself because I cannot not do it and be myself.” 
In this respect, Sheen’s role in “The Way” as Tom, a lapsed-Catholic ophthalmologist who does not understand his son Daniel (played by Estevez) and his desire to travel the world, seems out of character. At the beginning of the film, Daniel has decided that he will not finish his cultural anthro­pology PhD so that he can experience the world’s cultures first-hand. Tom is disap­pointed in his son’s decision and even more concerned that Daniel is about to fly to Eu­rope to complete the Camino de Santiago de Compostela. Tom receives a call that his son has died in an accident at the beginning of his pilgrimage and so he flies to collect the cremated remains of his son. He decides in a moment of revelation that he will continue his son’s journey on the Camino and scatter the ashes along the way. 
The Camino is an ancient pilgrimage throughout northern Spain and ends in Galicia at the Cathedral of Santiago de Com­postela, where the remains of St. James are rumored to be buried. Hundreds of thou­sands make the pilgrimage every year, often setting aside more than a month to complete the route. The pilgrims travel only with a single backpack and a walking stick and stop at important sites along the way to get a Camino passport stamped. Countless people within the Notre Dame community have completed or are currently in the pro­cess of completing the Camino. 
Tom’s story in “The Way” is one of deep personal and spiritual growth. The man at the end of the film is much more like the man who plays him — a generous person with a desire to live a full life. Estevez said of the role he wrote, “By the end of the jour­ney [Tom] becomes fully awake … and I think embraces the life his son had talked about that he never fully understood while the son was alive.” 
The estranged relationship between Tom and Daniel is clearly not a reflection of that of Sheen and Estevez. What is abundantly clear when the two speak together is the real admiration they have for the other, both as artists and as people. Estevez cred­its his father for helping develop the story. 
“We worked together on this.” Alexanian added. “Here, you have people who deeply care about each other and have deep re­spect for each other and also deeply know each other, so the film benefits from that … I witnessed it every day. Martin pulled out Emilio’s best and vice versa.” 
While “The Way” is about the reconnec­tion between Tom and his son, it is also about Tom’s reconnection with the rest of the world, with a community that exists outside himself. Sheen praised Notre Dame once again for its own sense of community, one that is both strong and contagious. 
“I think that Notre Dame is really that shining city on the hill,” Sheen said. “I heard Notre Dame described as more of a community than a university. You live your faith, but the community here is one of ex­traordinary humanity, and it vibrates with what I would call an enviable joy … You can’t walk on this campus and not be in­cluded and swept up, brought along.” 
Ultimately, it is this sense of community that Sheen, Estevez and those involved with “The Way” want to put forward. Sheen said that his hope for what audiences will get from the film is that they would feel wel­come to experience this journey vicariously with the actors. 
“You don’t have to go to Santiago, you don’t have to go to Jerusalem or Rome or Mecca for pilgrimage,” Sheen said. “You do have to go inside, you know, for transcen­dence, to find yourself ... What pilgrimage says is basically that you have to do the journey — no one can walk in your shoes, no one can carry your load. And you can be sure that if you go out there and you commit to doing it, you’re part of a community.” 
Sheen ended by confirming his belief in the importance of community. 
“So you must do it alone, but you cannot do it without community,” he added. “And that’s a reflection of Notre Dame, too. You can do it alone, but you can’t do it without community. And you don’t even want to do it without community.” 
“The Way,” is about a personal journey as well as a communal one. It is Tom’s story, but it also is the story of his son, the people he meets along the Camino and all of the pilgrims who travel the Camino every year. Friendships, family, religion, spirituality, perseverance and the power of will are all central to “The Way” and remain potent messages for the Notre Dame community and the world community at large. 
“The Way” will continue its bus tour of the U.S. en route to New York City for the Walkabout benefit. The film opens nation­wide Oct. 7. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 


Monday, September 19, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

By FELICIA CAPONIGRI 
Scene Writer 

Anne Slowey, Fashion News Director at ELLE Magazine and a 1982 Notre Dame alum­na, is busy between shows at New York Fashion Week. However, amid the bustle and glamour, her voice radi­ates calm, intelligence and thoughtfulness. Your very own Fashion by Felicia is the lucky recipient of this voice as Slow­ey graciously agreed to speak about what fashion means to her and the trajectory she’s seen it take in her own life and beyond.  Hold on to your stilet­tos, darlings, because fashion isn’t just about those runway lights. As Slowey shared, it’s all about communication. 
Slowey remembered Notre Dame campus fashion in the late 70’s and early 80’s as “East Coast preppy, plaid, corduroy, monogrammed sweaters, double pleated kha­kis with high waists for men (which should never be seen again), lots of ripped denim and boyfriend and girlfriend matching styles.” (My, my, my how things have changed). Slowey recalled having a “slight” interest in fashion, and told a humorous anecdote of being labeled a “hippie” af­ter she walked barefoot to and from campus during her first few weeks of class. Her over­all style consisted of “fringed moccasins, ripped jeans and t-shirts.” 
“Some girls were into dress­ing up, but not me ... I was nev­er interested in fashion for its social purposes — namely to get a boyfriend,” Slowey said. 
Working at Vogue with the famed photographer Irving Penn for one year after gradu­ating from Notre Dame with a 
B.A. in history furthered her passion for fashion for an­other reason  the beauty of the object. An aspiring writ­er, Slowey was transfixed by the “history, pageantry, and thoughtful, artful expression” of fashion. 
“Great, more experienced designers are aware of this history. A sleeve can convey the Baroque period, for ex­ample, and draw you into a ro­mantic history,” Slowey said. 
Slowey agrees with the no­tion of fashion as a visual, non­verbal language, with fashion always “existing within a cul­tural context.” 
“Otherwise it’s just clothes,” Slowey said. 
Slowey’s passion for adven­ture travel has highlighted these beliefs. Visiting coun­tries as diverse as Uzbekistan and the Laplands, as well as multiple regions of Africa, In­dia, Japan and China, gave her the opportunity to enter tribal regions, which designers such as John Galliano and Karl La­gerfeld have visited as well. 
“The roots of many designs we see are in this education 
— a consciousness rising”, she said. 
And this consciousness ris­ing applies to her European travels as well. 
“In Europe there is a chic and sophisticated woman [that are] not here,” Slowey said. “They’re not so overtly sexual, but sensual with more attitude.” 
She added that American women are “more open emo­tionally, while with European women there’s more affect.” 
This doesn’t negate the fact that there is a clear Europe­an love affair with American style, epitomized by the popu­larity of brands such as Tom­my Hilfiger and Ralph Lauren, whose European presence conveys “an obsession with American sport and casual wear.” 
From this historical and bi-cultural perspective, Slowey highlights a meaning of fash­ion, which has lately been gaining more consideration in academic circles. Fashion doesn’t just simply visualize a different culture or time peri­od through patterns or simple design, but it also keys us in to a culture’s values and tradi­tions, likes and dislikes. 
So, where does this leave us?  College students carry heavy course loads, beaucoup extracurricular activities, not to mention social entangle­ments. Anne Slowey was once one of us, and is now the au­thor of her own ELLE column, Fashion-Know-It-All, a for­mer star of the “Devil Meets 

Create Your own 
Balencia Fall Look 
Pierre Hardy 
Inspiration 








Fall 2011 RTW, Balenciaga 
Tunic Dress, zara.com, $59.90 
Ellie Pump, sears.com, $43.28 




Prada”-esque reality show “Stylista”, a one-time critic of “The City’s Whitney Port”, a fashion aesthete and the Di­rector of the Fashion News (which your very own Fashion by Felicia checks religiously every morning on ELLE.com, latte in hand). 
Moreover, Slowey is no fash­ion talking head — her points are intellectual. One could even say she has an academic’s view on the world of fashion. However, she is quick to crush any opinion that casts histori­cal interpretation as the only legitimate view. 
“As I have gotten older, I have realized you use fashion to express yourself and what you think, to convey a sensi­bility,” she said. “Clothes rep­resent who you are — if you’re moody, a romantic intellect or if you’re playful or joyful. This Spring, in particular, we’ve seen a lot of that with beauti­ful nature prints.” 
Slowey believes your ward­robe has the power to set the tone when you enter a room. 
“After all, you pick a trend and then you bring it to your own closet,” she said. “The bottom line is you pick some­thing everyday that you like, for which you have a feeling.” 
Slowey described her style as “a little avant-garde with the romantically intellectual.” She often likes to surprise people, incorporating a quirky or entertaining accessory into her ensemble. She cautions young women engaged with fashion to remember that if they begin to wax poetic on the historicism of fashion, like the architecture of a par­ticular building, clothes can change the way you feel in a tangible manner. When asked about her favorite fashion item, Slowey was speechless (of course, as any true fash­ion lover knows, items of your wardrobe are like children — how could you possibly choose your favorite?), but added, “Anything by Balenciaga, or Pierre Hardy.” 
Achieving our dreams is never easy, and it always takes us on unexpected routes. Did the young Anne Slowey dream of a place of power at ELLE Magazine as she felt the grass underneath her feet on that walk up to the Golden Dome? As she said, “I wanted to be a writer.” And so she is, and so much more. 
The key to fashion lies in its ability to help us get there, to communicate our dreams and desires to the audience we wish to spellbind. Papers may be on their way, exams around that crisp fall corner, but with the right ensemble and acces­sories, you can feel on top of the world and visually shout that empowerment from the rooftops. Now that’s what I like to call fashion enlighten­ment. 
Contact Felicia Caponigri at fcaponig@nd.edu 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Fantasy football 
I have played fantasy football for 12 seasons now. Well, this is currently my 12th season. After the last 12 years, I have come to hate fantasy football. 
First, let’s put 12 years in perspective, at least related to football. My rookie year was 2000. It was also Tom Brady’s first season. I won a title my first year. Brady waited until his sec­ond sea­son. 
Oth­er 2000 rookies: Shaun Alexan­der, now retired; Plaxico Burress, missed the last two seasons while he relaxed in jail; Sebastian Janikowski, kicked an NFL record-tying 63-yard field goal last week, but still plays for the Oakland Raiders. 
Of these players, only Janikowski has actually played 12 seasons, but I think it is safe to assume none have competed while hating the game. Yet, I persevere. 
Fantasy football is a grand endeavor. It annu­ally brings friends together for an afternoon of laughs, mockery and pizza. It brings competition to a male gender that obviously doesn’t compete enough. And it glues the casual football fan to his or her TV for the duration of Sunday afternoon. 
At the same time, fantasy football distorts a football fan’s allegiances. 
Yesterday, Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers threw for more than 300 yards and two touchdowns. That perfor­mance netted my fantasy football team 24 points, and vaulted me over my Bears-favoring foe. Obvi­ously, I appreciated Rodg­ers’ efforts. 
But it was running back John Kuhn who first put the Pack on the scoreboard, with a one-yard run in the second quarter. Kuhn cut in half a 13-0 deficit to the Carolina Panthers. I, as a lifelong Packers fan and indeed a Wisconsin native, should have joined every member of my high school class with a Face-book status update of, “KUUUUUUUUUHN.” 


Instead, I lamented the fact that Rodgers did not notch a touchdown pass. I was legitimately bothered by the lack of a passing touchdown. After all, those four points would have brought me a step higher in my league’s overall stand­ings. 
See what fantasy football has turned me into? I am no longer satisfied when my Packers score. They have to score in the way I want. It is as if I no longer appreci­ate my mother’s cooking when it isn’t my absolute favorite dish. Just because I love her fettuccini alfredo does not mean her meatloaf is not stellar. 
Honestly, if my fantasy football obsession ceased there, I doubt I would hate it. I would see my own personal failing, and simply try to hide it from the world. 
But it gets worse. In one of yesterday’s early afternoon games, Kansas City Chiefs running back Jamaal Charles went down with an injury. Evening re­ports indicated a torn ACL, likely season-ending. 
Most people would cringe for Charles, sympathize with him, understand how upset he must be. Not me, I did a silent fist pump, and not because I have a personal vendetta against all Kansas City sports. 
Rather, I relished the news because I have Chiefs backup running back Thomas Jones on my team. Now, Jones is a viable fan­tasy football threat. Thanks to Charles’ misfortune, my fictional team benefited. 
I know, I’m pathetic. This is the level fantasy football has reduced me to, and this is why I hate fantasy football. 
It is time I return to true fan status, simply thrilled the Packers remained undefeated, and disap­pointed Charles will not get a chance to build on his stellar last two seasons. 
Then again, I have at least remained loyal to Notre Dame — never draft­ing a former USC Trojan. 
Oh wait, I snagged Reggie Bush in one of my leagues this year. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer.
    Contact Douglas at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
NFL 

Brady breaks records against Chicago 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. — Big-yardage games are becoming routine for Tom Brady. So is setting records. 
Brady threw for 423 yards Sunday — six days after set­ting a single-game team re­cord of 517 — and led the New England Patriots to a 35-21 win over the San Diego Char­gers. 
“It seems like he’s always great,” linebacker Rob Ninkov­ich said. “He’s the best quar­terback in the league.” 
The club record he shat­tered in the season opener at Miami had stood for 51 years. The NFL mark for most yards passing in the first two games of a season, 854, lasted about three hours. Carolina rookie Cam Newton set that before Brady ended the day at 940 yards. 
“Two pretty outstanding out­ings” by Brady, said left tackle Matt Light, who protects his blind side. “He’s the leader of our offense. When he’s doing well, we’re all good.” 
Brady became the first play­er in NFL history to follow a 500-yard passing performance with a 400-yard game, and the Patriots scored 30 points for the 10th straight regular-season game. He threw three touchdown passes and went 31 for 40 with no interceptions as the Patriots (2-0) scored on each of their four first-half possessions. 
The Chargers (1-1) turned the ball over inside the Patri­ots 35-yard line three times, leading to 17 points. They also were stopped on a fourth-and­goal at the 1, and the Patriots started a 99-yard drive that 
ended  with  one  of  Brady’s  
two  scoring  passes  to  Rob  
Gronkowski.  

Coach Bill Belichick didn’t single out Brady, saying his success results from the oth­er 10 offensive players doing their jobs. And Brady, who connected with seven receiv­ers, said simply, “We were able to spread the ball around.” 
Philip Rivers completed 29 of 40 passes for 378 yards, two touchdowns and two intercep­tions for the Chargers. They had four turnovers for the sec­ond straight year against New England after losing 23-20 in 2010 when the Patriots gained just 179 yards. 
“They obviously got points (almost) every time they were down (near the goal line) and didn’t turn it over and, obvi­ously, we did,” Rivers said. “That was the difference in the game.” 
Brady had to share the spot­light and, somehow, wasn’t totally obscured by the 325-pound form of defensive tackle Vince Wilfork. He got his first career intercep­tion to halt a promising Chargers drive late in the first half, rum­bling 28 yards on the return. 



“I’m a well-conditioned athlete. I didn’t need any oxygen,” Wilfork said with a chuckle. 
He said he anticipated the screen pass to Rivers’ right and stepped into the passing lane. 
“There’s no way I’m ever going to see him coming,” Rivers said. “I would throw that one again ev­ery time. He made a great play.” 
For the second straight game, New England had a 99-yard touchdown drive. After Stephen Gostkowski’s 22-yard field goal made it 10-7, the Patriots got the ball back at their 1-yard line when Jerod Mayo stopped Mike Tolbert short of the goal line. 
In the 38-24 win over the Dol­phins, the Patriots also took the ball over at the 1, and Brady and Wes Welker hooked up for a 99­yard touchdown on the next play. This time Brady needed 10 plays to score, completing the drive with a 10-yard touchdown pass to Gronkowski for a 17-7 lead. 
San Diego wasted an oppor­tunity on its next series when it reached the Patriots 29 before Wilfork’s interception. That set up a 47-yard field goal by Gost­kowski on the last play of the first half, putting the Patriots on top 20-7. 
After a scoreless third quarter, the Chargers made it 20-14 on a 3-yard scoring pass from Rivers to Vincent Jackson early in the fourth. 
Then the Patriots tried for a first down on fourth-and-4 at the San Diego 49 because punter Zoltan Mesko had hurt his knee on a kick late in the third quar­ter. Brady threw an incompletion to Deion Branch, who led the Pa­triots with eight catches for 129 yards. 
But just three plays later, New England’s defense came through when Mayo forced a fumble and Ninkovich recovered at the Pa­triots 39. Brady needed just four plays to cover 69 yards and throw a 17-yard touchdown pass to Gronkowski. Danny Woodhead ran in for the 2-point conversion and a 28-14 lead. 
The Chargers needed a come­back, but tight end Antonio Gates didn’t help as he was held with­out a catch for the first time in 34 games. 
“They would put a corner or safety on me, or two safeties,” he said. “They did a lot of differ­ent things to take me out of the game.” 
The Chargers did score again on Rivers’ 26-yard pass to Jack­son with 5:40 to go. The Patriots responded with a 16-yard touch­down run by BenJarvus Green-Ellis. 
But it was Brady who set that up with a 29-yard completion to Gronkowski two plays earlier. That gain put the quarterback over the 400-yard mark for the third time in his career. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Whose woods these are I think I The darkest evening of the year. And miles to go before I sleep. I hold with those who favor fire. know. 
NOTICES PERSONAL 
He gives his harness bells a shake -- “Stopping by Woods on a But if it had to perish twice, His house is in the village though; Snowy Evening” 
To ask if there is some mistake. I think I know enough of hate Everyone on campus is getting UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? He will not see me stopping here by Robert Frost cheap eats, movie tickets, 2 for 1’s Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame The only other sound’s the sweep To say that for destruction ice 
and FREE stuff. has many resources in place to To watch his woods fill up with assist you. If you or someone you snow. Of easy wind and downy flake. Is also great 
Get yours too. love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue My little horse must think it quee The woods are lovely, dark and Some say the world will end in fire; And would suffice. Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at deep. 
TEXT IRISH1 to 99000 1-2685. To stop without a farmhouse near Some say in ice. -- “Fire and Ice” For more information, visit But I have promises to keep, ND’s website at: http:// Between the woods and frozen From what I’ve tasted of desire by Robert Frost pregnancysupport@nd.edu lake And miles to go before I sleep, 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Saint Mary’s finishes 11 of 16 at Calving Invitational 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
The Belles took on a 16-team field Saturday in Grand Rap­ids, Mich., that featured some top Division-III programs. The Belles finished in 11th place, leaving the Calving Invitational with a better understanding of where they stand in the MIAA than before. 
Fellow conference member and host No. 15 Calvin took first with a team score of 27. No. 35 Ohio Northern took second with 66 points. Saint Mary’s finished with 279 team points. Senior captain Joanne Almond led the Belles with a time of 18:42.6, good enough for a 23rd place in­dividual finish. 
Almond said she ran her best race. 
“Individually, I am thrilled with my time,” she said. “I set a new personal best by 40 sec­onds.” 
Almond said her teammates also impressed in their races. 
“I am very proud of our team’s showing on Saturday,” she said. “I think that every single one of my teammates ran an excellent race.” 
Though not an MIAA event, the Calvin Invitational included four schools from the confer­ence. According to Almond, the results from the weekend showed the Belles how difficult their season will be. 
“The field was larger than our conference,” Almond said. 


“Based on the teams that were there, I think that the MIAA will be extremely competitive this year.” 
With their first MIAA event coming this weekend in the form of the MIAA Jamboree at Trine University, the Belles now begin their season in earnest. Almond said results from the Calvin Invitational will deter­
mine how they train in prepa­ration for conference action. 
“Saturday’s invitational was a great indication of where our fitness is right now,” she said. “We will use our times from Saturday to tailor our work­outs in preparation for our big races.” 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
NFL 
Packers survive Newton attack 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. — For the second straight week, Cam New­ton threw for more than 400 yards, sidestepped pass rushers and moved the Carolina Pan­thers up and down the field. 
Leave it to Aaron Rodgers and the Super Bowl champion Green Bay Packers to spoil Newton’s home debut. 
Rodgers threw for 308 yards and two scores, while the Pack­ers withstood a 432-yard pass­ing day from the No. 1 overall draft pick to beat the Panthers 30-23 on Sunday. 
A week after throwing for 422 yards — most in league history by a rookie in his professional debut — Newton topped himself by setting an NFL rookie record for passing yardage in a game. He passed for one touchdown and also ran for a 4-yard score with 37 seconds left to bring Carolina (0-2) within seven, but the Packers (2-0) recovered the onside kick to seal the victory. 
Newton briefly held the NFL record for most passing yards in the first two games of the season by any quarterback (854), before New England’s Tom Brady broke it a few hours later. Newton still set a league record for most yards passing in the first two games of a career. 
“I knew he would be good, but if I told you I knew he’d be this good this early, I’d be lying to you,” said Packers nose tackle 
B.J. Raji, who had one of four sacks of Newton. “He doesn’t get frustrated. We threw a lot of stuff at him today and he was able to sit back there and make some of the plays they needed.” 
While Newton racked up the big yards, Rodgers was the one to direct his team to a victory. He found Greg Jennings for a 49-yard touchdown pass early in the third quarter, the go-ahead score in a run of 23 straight points to erase an early 13-0 deficit. 

ND VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Dame dominates at InnTowner Invitational 
Observer Staff Report 
On a weekend in which Irish senior outside hitter Kristen Dealy became just the eighth Notre Dame volleyball player to record both 1,000 kills and 1,000 digs in her career, the Irish gave fans plenty more to cheer about with convincing wins over West­ern Michigan and Wisconsin at the InnTowner Invitational in Madison, Wis. 
With a kill in the second set against Western Michigan on Friday, Dealy joined the 1,000­1,000 club in resounding fash­ion. The kill was one of 13 on the day for Dealy, who also recorded 21 digs.  For her efforts, she was named MVP of the Invitational. 
On Friday, the Irish (7-3) han­dled the Broncos (9-2) in four sets, winning 3-1 (25-18, 23-25, 25-14, 27-25) as three Irish hit­ters registered double-digit kills. Junior middle blocker Hilary Ep­pink and freshman middle block­er Jeni Houser recorded 14 and 11 kills, respectively. 
The efforts of those three, along with sophomore setter Maggie Brindock, who finished with eight kills and 48 assists, helped the Irish to hit .296 on the match. 
The real push, however, came from an Irish defense that held previously once-beaten Western Michigan to .178 hitting on the day. The Broncos hit just .088 in the first set and .000 in the third. 
Notre Dame completed its first-ever sweep of Wisconsin on Sat­urday, dispatching the Badgers (8-4) in straight sets (25-22, 25­22, 25-23) in front of a crowd of 3,410 at Wisconsin Field House. The match was closer than the score would suggest, with all three sets pushing the Irish to the limit. 
An impressive effort from freshman outside hitter Toni Alugbue pushed the Irish over the top. Alugbue registered 10 kills without an error on her way to a prodigious .667 hitting per­centage. 
As they did against Western Michigan the day before, the Irish significantly out-hit their opponent, slugging .272 to the Badgers’ .180 mark. Eppink chipped in with nine kills, Dealy with eight and Houser with sev­en. 
Between Alugbue, Houser and freshman libero Kathleen Sev­eryn, who notched a couple of key aces down the stretch, the win showcased the degree to which the Irish freshmen are making an immediate impact. Houser is currently second on the team in kills. 
The Irish return to the court to begin Big East play at home Friday, Sept. 24, against George­town in the Joyce Center. 



ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Notre Dame strives to return to NCAA championships 
Observer Staff Report 
The Irish start the fall por­tion of their schedule today at the Golfweek Conference Chal­lenge in Wolcott, Colo. The team hopes to get an early indication of whether they can repeat a trip to the NCAA champion­ships after earning a bid to the tournament for the first time in program history last season. 
Top ranked teams from each conference last season were invited to the 54-hole tourna­ment at the Red Sky Golf Club, Colorado’s top ranked course. If those teams were unable to participate in the 18-team field, the next highest ranked team was invited. The competition for the Irish, who finished 25th in the final Golfweek rankings last season, includes Pepper-dine and Oklahoma, who were ranked 20th and 27th respec­tively. 
The tournament will also feature the debuts of freshmen Ashley Armstrong and Kelli Oride for the Irish. Both were accomplished players in high school and each were ranked among the top 50 players in their class by Golfweek. Arm­strong successfully qualified for the U.S. Women’s Amateur this past summer, while Oride earned a spot as an alternate for the 2011 U.S. Women’s Open. 
Meanwhile, the experienced side of the five-player team is led by senior captain Becca Huffer. Last season, Huffer placed in the top-10 on four occasions in tournament play and held a 74.9 stroke average, good for second on the team. Huffer also has earned All-Big East honors in each of her three seasons. The location of the Golfweek Confer­ence Challenge tournament will allow Huffer’s family to watch the Denver, Colo., native play. 
Katie Allare, the other senior on the squad, averaged 78.3 
strokes per round in 2010. 
The roster is rounded out by sophomore Kristina Nhim, who posted an average of 76.2 strokes per round last season. Nhim also placed third in the Big East championships with a six-over-par, missing out on first place by only one stroke. 
Following the Golfweek Con­ference Challenge, the Irish will travel to North Carolina from Oct. 7-9 to compete in the Tar Heel Invitational. 


MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish finish strong on final day of tournament 
By WALKER CAREY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish competed in the Illini Invitational in Olympia Fields, Ill., this weekend in a field that included four top-20 teams. The Irish finished 5-3 in doubles and 11-17 in singles at the three-day event. 
“The competition at [the Il­lini Invitational] was very sol­id,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “I think we did a pretty good job of holding our own.” 
On Friday, the doubles teams of freshman Wyatt McCoy and 
senior Sam Keeton and ju­nior Blas Moros and sophomore Ryan Bandy notched two victories each, while the team of senior Niall Fitzgerald and junior Spen­cer Talmadge picked up one victory. 
“I was very pleased with our doubles were 

“It was troubling that 
to pick up 

we lost several close 
singles vic­

matches. We need to place tories. more of an emphasis on While earning those victories Bayliss was 
in close matches.” happy with his squad’s resi l iency, 
Bobby Bayliss 
he did ac-

Irish coach 
performance,” Bayliss said. “We had some new combina­tions out there and I believe they worked out. There was definitely some good chemis­try.” 
The Irish had a difficult Sat­urday morning, winning just one singles match out of nine, but their resiliency showed when they took four of six matches in the afternoon. 
Bandy was the star on Sat­urday, winning both of his matches, while Keeton, McCoy and sophomore Greg Andrews also earned victories. 
The final day at the Illini Invitational was shortened by inclement weather, but not be­fore Moros and senior Casey Watt able 


knowledge 
that there 
are some 
areas where the Irish need to make im­provements. 
“It was troubling that we lost several close matches,” Bayliss said. “We need to place more of an emphasis on earning those victories in close matches.” 
While the Irish have a short week before returning to ac­tion this upcoming weekend, Bayliss believes they have some time to make necessary adjustments. 
“Even though it is a short week, I believe we can work on some things that will make us a better team,” Bayliss said. “We just need to work on refin­ing a few things and tying up some loose ends, which I be­lieve we are capable of doing.” 
Bayliss does believe that the Irish have done an admirable job of developing toughness. 
“I really liked the fact that we were competitive all week­end,” he said. “It is always good to see your team continue to develop some toughness.” 
Bayliss will accompany part of the squad to California to compete in the Napa Valley USTA/ITA Invitational, while the other part of the team will stay at home and compete in the Tom Fallon Invitational, which is held on campus at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Walker Carey at wcarey@nd.edu 

CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish win 9th straight Catholic Championship 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
The Irish continued their peren­nial dominance of the National Catholic Championships by notch­ing a pair of victories over the weekend. 
“This race was definitely a step in the right direction for our team. We had improvements from ev­eryone that raced two weeks ago,” Irish senior Rachel Velarde said. “It was nice seeing everyone work so well together, and it produced good results.” 
For the ninth straight year, a Notre Dame women’s runner topped the leaderboard as junior Jessica Rydberg finished first, running the five-kilometer course in just 17:16. 
Rydberg’s mark was the fast­est time since 1999 and the third swiftest in the meet’s history. 
Sophomore Alexa Aragon fin­ished third, while senior Molly Hirt placed fifth, helping the Irish take six of the top nine spots. 
“This race was more competi­tive than two weeks ago, but not as competitive as ND [Invitational],” Velarde said. “It is nice for the freshman to see the course and get a feel for it before ND Invite, where the big time racing happens.” 
Irish freshmen Emily Frydrych and Gabby Gonzales finished 11th and 27th in their home debuts, re­spectively. 
“This race was a good stepping stone for the race in two weeks,” Velarde said. “I think we can work on bettering our pack time, and that can start by trying to close gaps during workouts.” 
Notre Dame (22 points) finished well ahead of second place Dayton (61 points), while Saint Louis Uni­versity (117 points) was a distant third. 
The men’s squad had a success­ful weekend as well, beating the competition for the 20th time in the last 24 years. 
“We had the goal in mind to win by quite a bit, and we did just that,” senior Jordan Carlson said. “There is a lot we can work on, but this was a very strong start.” 
Sophomore Martin Grady fin­ished 20 seconds off the lead, placing second behind DePaul’s Matthew Graham. Grady’s finish paced the Irish, who placed six runners among the top ten. 
“We can still finish stronger as a team,” Carlson said. “It’s im­portant for us to work together throughout the race, and I think that’s one thing we can really im­prove on.” 
Senior Kelly Lynch and sopho­mores Walter Schafer, DJ Thorn­ton and Patrick Lesiewicz all fin­ished the five-mile race in under 25 minutes, while senior Joe Mill­er clocked in at 25:02. 
“We were expecting to win, but at the same time we take this race very seriously and look at it as a great opportunity to shake the rust off before some of our more competitive meets,” Carlson said. 
Marquette, who defeated the Irish at the Crusader Invitational just two weeks ago, finished sec­ond, and Dayton took third place. Notre Dame scored 28 points to the Eagles’ 88 and the Flyers’ 118. 
“We should look at this as race as a great indication of our poten­tial,” Carlson said. “We ran well, but we can do a whole lot better, so it will be exciting to watch us put it all together in two weeks.” 
The Irish are back in action Sept. 30 when they host the Notre Dame Invitational. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles suffer first loss of the year 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 

Adrian struck early and often, scoring one goal in the fourth minute and two more in the first half on the way to a 4-1 victory, hand­ing the Belles their first de­feat of the season. 
“We did not play well in the first half,” Belles coach Michael Joyce said. “We failed to sort out what they were doing offensively and it cost us.” 
The Bulldogs (4-2, 2-0 MIAA) took the lead 3:22 into the game when junior midfielder Lauren Cozzi slid into a pass from Adri­an sophomore forward Sam Barker, shooting the ball past Belles freshman goal­keeper Chanler Rosenbaum and into the lower-left cor­ner of the net. 
Despite a crucial clear­ance from senior defender Keely Noonan moments lat­er, the Belles (5-1, 1-1) found themselves in a 2-0 deficit in the 14th minute after Barker scored a goal of her own in the right side of the net. 
The third Adrian goal came with just a minute left in the half when sopho­more forward Alex Bowen dodged the Belles defense and scored, puncturing the Belles’ momentum going into the half. 
“Their third goal a min­ute from half was tough ¾ three goals down is tough to come back from,” Joyce said. “We were able to talk about things and sort it out at half, but we were already down 3-0 at that point.” 
Despite the lopsided scoreboard, the Belles came out of the halftime rejuve­nated. Saint Mary’s junior midfielder Maddie Meckes was granted a free kick in the 64th minute, which soph­omore midfielder Mollie Va­lencia corralled and headed into the right corner of the goal for the Belles’ first score of the game. 
Cozzi answered the score from Saint Mary’s in the 72nd minute when she dribbled through the Belles defense and tapped the ball into the left corner of the net for her second goal of the game. 
“The second half was much better. Our defense really stepped up in the sec­ond half, and we did pull one goal back, but we need­ed to keep the game closer,” Joyce said. 
Despite the loss, the Belles are still off to their best start since 1992, when they played seven games without a loss. 
Joyce said that losing its perfect record will not af­fect the way the team per­forms in its next game against Alma, the defending MIAA champion. 
“We weren’t expecting to go undefeated for the year, so we didn’t give much thought to it, but it was a nice start,” Joyce said. “We’ll have to play a little better defensively on Thurs­day and not give up easy chances.” 
The Belles look to start a new win streak when they face Alma at home at 5 p.m. Thursday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
Scodro 
continued from page 20 

little bit distracted,” Kubin­ski said. “He wanted to put on a show for all his friends and family there, but I don’t think it really affected his play. He’s pretty good at blocking things out.” 
Stanford ran away from the great fields like this.” 
Notre Dame finished one spot and seven strokes ahead of defending national cham­pion Augusta State. 
The Irish return to action next Sunday at home for the Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic at the Warren Golf Course. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 

rest of the field as the Cardi­nal finished with a 54-hole total of 849 (+9), 16 strokes ahead of second-place Au­burn. 
“Stanford had four or five guys play really well each round,” Kubinski said. “Con­sistency is really the key. We had maybe two guys put up great scores each day. When we can start doing that we’ll start finishing higher, even in 


Waldrum 
continued from page 20 
nities in the 56th minute, when Exeter tracked down a ball and drove to the corner. Her low cross made its way through lots of traffic in the box and found freshman midfielder Erin Yen­ney streaking down the back side. Yenney slotted the ball near-side from six yards and Louisville was on the board. 
The Irish had several tan­talizing opportunities as the game wound down, but the Cardinals held to the very end for the victory, snapping Notre Dame’s 62-match unbeaten streak in regular season con­ference play. There was little time for the Irish to reflect on the loss though, as they had to make the trip over to Ohio to take on Cincin­nati (5-3-2, 0-1-0). 
The Irish arrived in Cincinnati, and greeting them was a formi­dable environment. Between the constant rainfall, the less-than­ideal Astroturf and the record-sellout crowd of 1,400 fans at Get­tler Stadium, not to mention the hard-working Bearcats side, Notre Dame had a hard time settling into the game. 
Cincinnati jumped all over the Irish from the get-go, earning six corner kicks in the first 10 minutes alone. And while the Irish avoided getting burned on the first five, freshman midfielder Megan Cra­venor rattled home the sixth for an early 1-0 Bearcat lead. 
After that goal Notre Dame went to work, and found senior forward and tri-captain Melissa Hender­son early and often. Henderson scored her 60th career goal in the 18th minute to even the score, then added two more in the 26th and 65th to complete her fifth ca­reer hat trick. Freshman forward Lauren Bohaboy scored her first career goal in the last three min­utes, and the Irish walked off the field as resounding victors. 
Notre Dame will have no time to rest after that win, however, as they face a very quick turnaround this week with a whirlwind week­end road trip. The Irish will fly down to Tampa for a televised contest against South Florida on Thursday, then will head to Mil­waukee, Wis. to take on No. 8/9 Marquette on Sunday. 

Mena 
continued from page 20 
Greg Klazura assisted Mena on both goals. 
“The game was funny be­cause both goals were really replicas of one another,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. 
Mena also assisted sopho­more forward Harry Shipp’s goal against Michigan State. 
“Mena was very much in­volved this weekend,” Clark said. “He really had a hand in every goal this weekend with his two goals and assist.” 
Michigan (2-5-1) got an early start Friday, as it scored in the 39th second of the match, catching senior goalkeeper Will Walsh off guard. In the eleventh minute, they almost scored again for a two-goal lead, but Walsh deflected the ball for his first of three saves against Michigan. 

Notre Dame trailed Michi­gan in shots during the first half with seven to the Wolver­ines’ 10, but the Irish came back and outshot Michigan 15-7 in the second half. 
“They gave us all we could handle in the first half. The first half was a very tough contest for us,” Clark said. “In the second half, we really took hold of the game.” 
The Irish almost took the game in the 80th minute as a shot from junior forward Ryan Finley hit the crossbar and went over the goal. 
Mena and Finley each lead the Irish with three goals this season. 
“[The Wolverines] were a good team in the first half of the first half, and they seemed more alive in the game than we were at the beginning.” Clark said. “I was very proud of the way our team battled back and took command in the second half.” 
Against the Spartans (1-5-1) at Michigan State’s Old College Field, Shipp’s goal in the 54th minute ultimately decided the game. 
Though neither team scored before the half, the Irish estab­lished themselves offensively from the beginning of the match and outshot the Spar­tans 10-7 before the break. They continued the offensive domination in the second half with six shots to Michigan State’s three. 
Though the Irish controlled the ball for most of the match, a one-goal advantage was not enough to remain relaxed on the field towards the end of the game. The Spartans picked up their offensive challenge in the last ten minutes, vying for the tying goal before the clock ran out. 
“At a time like that, they’re just going to pile everything into your box,” Clark said. “You have got to handle that. There’s a lot of aerial service, a lot of stuff just lofted into your box. Your goalkeepers become very essential and important.” 

Walsh had five saves against Michigan State and resisted the pressure of the desperate Spartan offense. 
“The game became much more direct in the last 15 or 20 minutes,” Clark said. It be­came quite a physical game, but I thought we handled that very well.” 
Notre Dame’s non-confer­ence play concluded this week­end. The Irish will kickoff this season’s conference action against No. 3 Louisville. The Irish will take on the Cardi­nals at 7 p.m. Friday at Notre Dame’s Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

Boxing 
continued from page 20 
by 2009 graduate himself — could not have been classier. It opened with a five-fight undercard, highlighted by Troy Lowry’s knockout of Travis Loveless and Elkhart native James Shorter overcoming a 63-pound def­icit to knock out Boris Shisporenok, who could have been mistaken for an aged Ivan Drago circa “Rocky IV.” 
Come 11 p.m., as more than 100 O’Neill Hall residents chanted for Lee, a former O’Neill resident, Regis Philbin added to the glamour. Par­seghian himself stood ringside, and Daniel E. “Rudy” Ruettiger was in at­tendance as well. How much better can it get? 
Certainly, even before Lee’s win, the first professional boxing event at Notre Dame fared better than the sham in Las Vegas would. 
To summarize, in the fourth round Ortiz head-butted Mayweath­er. The referee penalized Ortiz for the blatant foul. As the referee called for punching to resume, May-weather jumped at an unsuspecting Ortiz, landed a left-right combo, and knocked out “Vicious.” 
At Notre Dame, Lee demonstrated what boxing should be, a sporting competition which creates electric­ity and buzz. In Vegas, Mayweather showed what boxing can be, a great opportunity to show immaturity. 
More often than not, boxing deliv­ers the latter. The sport of Ali and Sugar Ray (twice) has become a money-grubbing version of a fourth-grade argument. 
Try explaining the concept of box­ing to a four-year-old. Most conver­sations with my niece Avery entail more refrains of “Why?” than my patience can tolerate. Yet discuss­ing boxing brought forth the penul­timate letter of the alphabet more frequently than Big Bird would on an episode of “Sesame Street spon­sored by the letter ‘Y.’” 
Boxing has reached a point where Avery could not be more right. Why? 
Why do we still put two men in a ring to pound the living daylights out of each other? 
Every one of the 2,500 estimated fans at Lee’s fight winced when Lowry dropped Loveless. Loveless, previously unbeaten, dropped face first and probably never felt himself hit the canvas. 
Why do we pay money to see Loveless fall? 
We could go to a local bar and wait for the sparks to fly. Pick the right bar, and more often than not at least one fight will involve more bloodshed and ramifications than Lee’s and Stiers’ did. 
And why do we continue to give Mayweather attention? 
The 34-year-old has lost a defa­mation lawsuit filed against him by his biggest competition — Man­ny Pacquiao, who, coincidentally, wished Lee good luck and “Go Irish” Friday night via the video screen. Mayweather has faced numerous charges of assault in one form or another, and after his ill-gotten vic­tory Saturday, all but threatened 80-year-old HBO analyst Larry Mer­chant. 
Lee will excel in any field he en­ters. He will indeed continue to rise up the boxing ranks, as he is a com­plete package in the ring. But the charming Chicago native has a busi­ness degree from Notre Dame. He does not need to punch for a living. 
There are other ways to raise hundreds of thousands of dollars to research for a cure to Niemann Pick Type C, the disease the Parseghian Foundation fights. 
While Lee does show what boxing should be, why should boxing be? 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

“The fact that two organiza-
Lee 
tions got the proceeds from the 
continued from page 20 
ing ways to win, and that’s what I did.” 
Lee was in fact knocked down once by a Stiers right hook, but the 24-year-old quickly got back on his feet and kept fighting. 
Lee’s poise allowed him to re­main active for all four rounds, as he had to adjust to Stiers’ playing style. 
“I definitely wanted to pace myself,” he said. “He was run­ning from me the whole fight and I didn’t want to get caught with anything stupid, but my trainer Ronnie Shields taught me to stay poised in this atmosphere. 
“I easily could’ve gone out there and thrown a million punches and tried to go for a really quick knockout and tire myself out, but we’re trying to learn, so we’re try­ing to get those rounds and learn, and I think that’s what we did.” 
While Lee did not knock out Stiers, he said he was very pleased with his performance. 
“It was a great fight,” he said. “I knew I won the fight [after it end­ed], but yeah, when they raised my hands it’s the best feeling in the world. It’s tough to explain. It’s why I do what I do, and my team knows that and my dad knows that. 
“We spend hours in the gym and weeks down in Houston, and it’s for that moment. It’s for that moment right there when I get to raise my hand and everybody gets to see the work we put in.” 
The proceeds from the match were donated to the Robinson Community Family Center in South Bend and the Ara Parseghi­an Medical Research Foundation. 
fight means the world to me,” he said. 
Lee’s next fight will be held at Madison Square Garden in New York on Dec. 3rd. 
Ramiro Bueno def. Anthony Mc-Manaway (KO) 
Both light heavyweight fight­ers started aggressively in the first round, but South Bend na­tive Ramiro Bueno was relentless en route to a knockout at the 1:24 mark in the first round. 
James Shorter def. Boris Shish­porenok (KO) 
Despite a 63-pound weight dis­advantage, Elkhart native James Shorter picked up a second round knockout to win the heavyweight match. 
Ray Lucies def. Nathan Wilkes (Unanimous decision) 
Most of the four-round fight was uneventful until Ray Lucies cor­nered his opponent for much of the final stanza to seal the match in his professional debut. 
Troy Lowry def. Travis Loveless (KO) 
Troy Lowry picked up a fifth-round knockout to improve to 27­11 with 15 KOs in his career. 
Glen Tapia def. Marcus Thomp­kins (Unanimous decision) 
Glen Tapia had an opportunity to finish Marcus Thompkins in the second round after cornering his opponent with great technique. 
After getting some punches in, Thompkins was able to extend the match. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 



SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

2009 Notre Dame graduate Mike Lee stares down his opponent during his victory Friday at the Joyce Center. 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


HENRy ARNOLD 

THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE JOE MILLER and KELLy LyNCH 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Monday, September 19, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
BOXING 

The gloves are off 
Notre Dame product Mike Lee puts on show 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
Mike Lee said he felt the enor­mity of the grand stage prior to being introduced at Purcell Pa­vilion, but the 2009 Notre Dame graduate showed no signs of stage fright in his unanimous vic­tory over Jacob Stiers in front of a packed crowd Friday night. 
“We were standing in the tun­nel, but once ‘Good Life,’ my song, came on, I felt at home. I felt good, and I think I came out with a lot of poise out there,” Lee said. “What a great night.” 
Lee (7-0, 4 KOs) needed all four rounds to clinch the win over Stiers (4-2, 2 KOs), but the former Bengal Bouts champion said he never imagined leaving Purcell Pavilion without a victory. 
“I knew there was no losing,” Lee said. “I said in the press con­ference — if I’m losing, you’re go­ing to have to carry me out. There was no way I was losing that fight. I just knew it. I don’t care if he knocked me down 10 times, I was still getting back up and find-
see LEE/page 18 


Weekend shows two sides of boxing’s state 
This weekend showed what can be, what boxing should be and why box­ing should not be. 
In Las Vegas, Floyd “Money” May-weather knocked out “Vicious” Victor Ortiz to win the WBC Welterweight title Saturday night. 

In Purcell Pavilion, Notre Dame’s own product, Mike Lee, earned a unanimous four-round victory over Jacob Stiers Friday night. 
Mayweath­er pocketed Douglas Farmer $25 million, most of which Editor-in-Chief will go to pay his court fees as he battles 
various lawsuits and criminal cases. 
Lee donated $100,000, largely raised by the fight, to the Robinson Community Family Center in South Bend and the Ara Parseghian Medi­cal Research Foundation. 
Truly, the event Lee put together — and much of the work really was done 
see BOXING/page 17 
MEN’S GOLF 

Irish finish 8th at talent-laden Olympia Fields Invitational 
By CONOR KELLY second and third days of the Irish move into a tie for 10th out there grinding.” about it was his composure. Sports Writer tournament after ending the place despite shooting a 297 Scodro and Walker placed It’s something he’s been work-
first round tied for 12th. (+17). Senior Chris Walker well individually, with Scodro ing on for the past three years.” 
Led by a one-under 69 in The Irish opened the first paced the Irish with a 72 (+2). tied for 11th and Walker knot-For Scodro, shooting a 69 on the final round by senior Max round of the Invitational with The 54-hole format proved ted for 15th. Kubinski viewed the last round at his home club Scodro on his home course, a 292 (+12), led by Scodro’s beneficial to the Irish on Sun-the tournament and especially was satisfying on a weekend the Irish jumped two spots 71 (+1) and sophomore Niall day, as they again moved up the last two days as a coming-when the novelty of playing on to finish in eighth place in a Platt’s 72 (+2). two spots to eighth place de-out-party for Walker. the same course he’s played 15-team field at the Olympia “We came out and didn’t spite hazardous weather con-“Walker was injured in Min-since he was eight years old Fields Invitational at the Olym-shoot terribly in the first ditions. nesota last weekend, and he was at times as much a dis­pia Fields Country Club in Chi-round, “ Irish coach Jim Ku-“I don’t think the scores on played through it, but the re-traction as it was a benefit. cago, Ill. binski said. “But against this our rounds accurately portray sults sort of reflected that,” “There were times this tour-
Facing some of the top pro-competition we had to be bet-the way we played,” Kubinski Kubinksi said. “But this week nament when Scodro was a grams in college golf, the Irish ter.” said. “There was a lot of wind he played 143 through the last climbed incrementally on the The second round saw the and rain today. Our guys were two rounds. The best thing see SCODRO/page 16 
MEN’S SOCCER 

ND extends unbeaten streak to 4 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish upped their un­beaten streak to four games with another two wins over the weekend. Notre Dame be­gan the weekend with a 2-1 overtime win over Michigan at home Friday, before posting a 1-0 shutout over Michigan State on Sunday in East Lan­sing, Mich. 
Senior midfielder Adam Mena scored both of the team’s goals against the Wolverines, the first in the 33rd minute and the second in the first minute of overtime, to lead the No. 16 Irish (4-1-2). Senior midfielder 
see MENA/page 17 

JAMES DOAN/The Observer 
Junior forward Danny O’Leary, center, runs by a Michigan defender in Notre Dame’s 2-1 overtime win at Alumni Stadium on Friday. 
WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Notre Dame bounces back after tough loss 
Observer Staff Report 

After a rough 3-3-1 non-conference stretch to open the season, Notre Dame was ready to begin Big East play, in which they hadn’t lost a regular season match since 2005. And while that streak was ended in a 1-0 loss to Louisville on Friday, the team was able to bounce back in Sunday’s 4-1 win at Cincinnati. 
Heading into Friday’s home match, the Irish (4-4-1, 1-1-0 Big East) were excited to head back to the friendly confines of Alumni Stadium after their West Coast trip ended with a 2-1 loss to Stanford and a 1-1 draw at Santa Clara. With their impressive re­cord in Big East play, one would expect them to breeze through their conference opener. Howev­er, Irish coach Randy Waldrum and his team didn’t underesti­mate the Cardinals (3-4-2, 1-0-1) and their talented forward, soph­omore Christine Exeter. 
The team showed the crowd of 2,501 fans they were ready to play from the opening whistle, outshooting Louisville 20-10. However, Louisville made the most of one of their few opportu­
see WALDRUM/page 16 






