the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Notre Dame plugs into new technologies 
Learning Spaces looks to expand classroom beyond physical space to virtual environment 

By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
From lab and classroom equipment to hallway comput­ers and residence hall printers, Technology Enhanced Learning Spaces is responsible for devices used every day by students and faculty. 
Learning Spaces Manager Brian Burchett said the group’s goal is to make technology at Notre Dame accessible and easy to use 
“The name Learning Space is intended to convey the idea that teaching and learning can take place anywhere. It could take place in a lounge or out in the hallway,” he said. “But it doesn’t have to be physical space. It can be a virtual space, too.” 
With a focus on registrar-
see TECH/page 5 




University continues to integrate iPads into instruction in campus classrooms 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
While iPads may be consid­ered a trendy device outside of a university environment, this semester, two new pilot class­es are exploring the benefits of using these University-pro­vided devices in the class­room. 
Professors also are making adjustments based on last fall’s experiences. 
Last semester 50 iPads were dispersed among different undergraduate classes, includ­ing assistant professor of man­agement Corey Angst’s Project Management course. 
The class used iPads mainly as e-readers, in addition to electronic pop quizzes and sharing documents and videos. 
see IPADS/page 4 


Rent-A-Text arrives at 



Legends touts ‘best lineup’ 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
With its web page advertis­ing this semester’s list of acts as “Our Best Lineup Ever,” Legends of Notre Dame Nightclub is not minc­ing words this spring. The statement is supported with a video trailer promoting the array of artists performing at the nightclub this spring. 
Aaron Perri, general man­ager of Legends, said the spring lineup is remarkable because of the variety of acts. 
“I try to pick a lineup that contains a wide variety of entertainment, to appeal to the broadest range of people. We have some of the best concerts, comedy and variety acts from across the coun­try,” he said. “Our concerts span every genre and style, from rock to indie, to hip-hop and country. We hope there is something here for everyone.” 
Perri said Legends will fea­ture nearly 60 acts over the course of the semester, with a top-heavy lineup. 


Saint Mary’s bookstore 
allows students to spend less for a semesters worth of books. 
“The Rent-A-Text program offers another cost savings alter­native to the students,” O’Connor said. “The greatest advantage is the lowering of the upfront expen­diture by students for the pur­chase of their course required materials. Renting a textbook will result in a savings of over 50 per­cent as compared to the cost of a new textbook.” 
Students who would like to rent books can either do so at the Bookstore, pre-register online at rent-a-text.com or do an express registration at the time of their first rental transaction, O’Connor said. 
“All that is required is that the student is over the age of 18, have a valid government issued ID and a credit card for collateral,” O’Connor said. “The actual trans­action may be tendered utilizing cash, check, credit card or student charge. The collateral is only uti­lized in the event of a non-return.” 
Students wishing to purchase books they had rented can do so 
see BOOKS/page 5 


By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s students took advantage of the new textbook rental program at Shaheen Bookstore, which was acquired by Follett Higher Education Group on Oct. 20. 
Thirty-six percent of students rented textbooks through the Rent-A-Text program, which accounted for 18 percent of the Bookstore’s total sales for the semester, Jim O’Connor, a region­al manager at Follett, said. 
Notre Dame, which started the same program last semester, had a similar success rate, with 25 percent of students renting their texts. 

O’Connor said Saint Mary’s also has an increase in used texts. “With the introduction of this “More than half of [the on our lineup.” 
initiative along with a tremendous artists] are nationally tour-Perri, who has been in 
increase in the availability of used ing acts, the same acts you charge of booking the pro-
textbooks resulted in 41 percent would pay $20 to $50 to see fessional entertainment at 
of the SMC student purchases at in other cities,” he said. “I Legends for the last seven 
greatly reduced costs as com-think we’ll have numerous and a half years, said he has 
pared to a new textbook price,” shows that hit capacity. 
O’Connor said. There are no real low points see LEGENDS/page 4 
O’Connor said renting texts 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Panel discusses women in military page 7  Women’s basketball to face Villanova page 16  Snoop Dogg heats up Fever page 8  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Friday, January 28, 2011 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin ADVERTISING MANAGER: 
Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Sam Stryker Chris Masoud Kristen Durbin Megan Finneran Anna Boarini Megan Golden 

Graphics Scene 
Blair Chemidlin Courtney Cox Photo Maria Fernandez Sarah O’Connor Viewpoint Megan Kozak 
THE HOT SEAT: FIVE QUESTIONS, ONE PERSON, INFINITE POSSIBILITIES 

Q: Who do you think is going to win the Superbowl next weekend? Katelynd: The Steelers are going to annihilate the Packers. For sure. 


Q: What is your favorite Kevin Costner movie? Katelynd: Dances with Wolves! That is probably my favorite movie ever. I watched it a couple times over break. 

Q: Who is your favorite dining hall worker? 

Katelynd Park 
Katelynd: Miss Tina, for sure! She always makes sure that I get a cookie 
junior 
right out of the oven. She takes care of 

Le Mans Hall 
us girls. 
Q: 
What is something about you peo­ple should know? Katelynd: I lived in Chile for a year, and it was amazing! The culture is so differ­ent, but it is really interesting to see the ways that American culture is used and combined with their own culture. My host family brought in a Christmas tree cov­ered in fake snow, even though it is sum­mer there at that time, because they had seen snow from American television. 

Q: 
What is your creative outlet? Katelynd:Last semester I was part of this Madrigals dinner where we had to dress up in Renaissance clothing, which was great. I also just tried out for another play here at SMC. 






Know someone who should be in the hot seat? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

Courtney Eckerle/The Observer Seniors Hannah Hupp, Jeannie Michael, Lindsey Downs, Hanna Vicary and Loren Sampson pose with a class project, a soda called “A Twist O Luck.” 
The drink will now be sold in all Saint Mary’s eateries, and the girls are looking to expand to other venues. 
OFFBEAT 

Priceless pedigreed cat turns up neutered 
WELLINGTON, New Zealand — A valuable pedi­greed cat that went missing from its New Zealand home turned up two days later a little different — it had been surgically castrated. 
Owner Michelle Curtis said she was furious when Buddy, her prized Siamese-Bengal cross, came home “fixed.” 
“I couldn't believe some­one took my cat and got him fixed. I don't know why they would do that,” Curtis told Bay of Plenty Times newspaper in an article Thursday. “It really was quite bizarre. I mean, who just takes someone's cat and gets them neutered?” 
Curtis said she had owned Buddy for almost two years and was consid­ering using him as a stud cat. 
“What am I supposed to do now? I can't exactly get someone to sew them back on,” she told the newspa­per. 
Mexican drug catapult discovered on border 
HERMOSILLO, Mexico — Drug smugglers are using an ancient invention as a new way to move marijua­na across the border from Mexico to Arizona. 
The discovery of two “drug catapults” in the Mexican state of Sonora marks the latest twist in the cat-and-mouse game traffickers play with authorities. 
The smugglers left before they could be cap­tured. The surveillance video of them using the catapult was released Wednesday. 
A second catapult was discovered Thursday in near Agua Prieta, another border town. Mexican offi­cials say it is the first time they have seen this smug­gling method used by local traffickers. 
Mexican traffickers have previously used planes, tunnels, vehicles, boats and couriers to smuggle drugs into the United States. Colombian drug traffickers have even used homemade submarines. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Saturday Sunday 
IN BRIEF 
The ScreenPeace film festival starts today with a showing of “Countdown to Zero”. The film is being shown in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 6:30 p.m..The event will be introduced by David Corrtight, Director of Policy Studies at the Kroc Institute. The event is free, but ticketed. Reserve tickets at 631-2800 or at the door. 
The Greater Good Lecture Series Keynote address will be given by Dr. Mark Alboin, a New York Times bestselling author and entreprenuer. The lecture starts today at 1 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business. The event is free and open to the public. . 
Today at 10:40 a.m. the 2nd lecture in the Ten Years Hence Lecture Series, “The Evolution of Sustainable Investing: From Individual Conscience to Institutional Accountability. ” Barbara Krumsiek, the Chair, CEO and President of Calvert Group, Ltd. is giving the talk. The talk is free and is at the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business . 
Saturday, from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., the American Red Cross is holding a blood drive at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
. 
“Hurt Locker” is being shown as a part of the ScreenPeace film festival. The film is being shown at 9:30 
p.m. Saturday in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The event is free but ticketed. Reserve tickets at 631 2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to 
obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


Monday tuesday 


LOCAL WEATHER 
CORRECTIONS 

A Jan. 27 article, “IEI Partners for new writing pro­gram,” incorrectly attributed information.  The information in the story attributed to Joyce Johnstone should have been attributed to Karen 




Morris, program director for Power of Writing. The Observer regrets this error. 
LOW 26 LOW 19 LOW 20 LOW 16 LOW 8 LOW 8 
Friday, January 28, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Paneldiscusseswomeninwar 
By ABI HOVERMAN 
News Writer 
Women are a common tar­get in war zones, said anthropology professor Carolyn R. Nordstrom, who has seen vil ­lages where every woman and child has 

been brutal -in the war during her deploy­
“Be gender blind. If 
ized. munity and say ment. 
Nordstrom, you have bias, you no, we are not “Our mission was to estab­who has spent better get rid of it.” going to do to lish trust and confidence to y e a r s [go to war] any-ultimately help them help r e s e a r c h i n g more.” themselves,” she said. 
Casie E. Sweeney 
conditions of Carpenter, the Sweeney said female mili­wars across frst lieutenant first woman in tary members offer a unique 
the globe, was part of the panel “Women and War: In and Out of Uniform,” held Wednesday in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall. The dis­cussion explored women’s role in the military and impact during wars. 
Nordstrom said villages are defenseless when male resi­dents leave to fight. 
“I walk into villages where every woman and child has been raped, where all the food has been stolen,” she said. 
Panelist Rear Admiral Wendi B. Carpenter, who has tage of being male.” 


First Lt. Casie E. Sweeney, a 2008 Notre Dame alumna, detailed her experiences in Afghanistan. As part of a new effort to improve rela­tionships and communication between marines and Afghani civilians, Sweeney lead a female -engagement team through family com ­pounds of farmers displaced 

the navy to be element of trust in a culture named an admi-suspicious of western men. In ral, said women Afghanistan, only female have made marines are accepted into advances in the military in family compounds. This com-
recent decades. 
“We’ve got all kinds of female firsts out there, and the good thing is we’ve got the firsts out of the way, ” she said. “Now we can move on to other things.” 
Professor Michael Desch, chair of the Political Science Department, said technology has played a role in increased female military partici­pation. 
“Historically, the military has 

“Historically, the military has been male-dominated. Men are physically stronger and larger than women, but with [weapons] technology today, there is no longer the functional advantage of being male.” 
Michael Desch chair Political Science Department 
fort with female marines helped foster cooperation with families. 
“We would take our hair down and it would put them at ease, ” she said. 
When asked how male military members should treat their female counterparts, Sweeney insisted equality. 
Professor explores definitions of race 

represented the United States in NATO forums, said in war torn areas women take on a unique role. 
“If you can increase oppor­tunities, education and sta­bility of women, you can decrease the chance of war breaking out,” she said. “[Women can] get a hold of the men in the com-
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
What is race? American Studies professor Jason Ruiz posed this “deceptively sim­ple question” Wednesday in DeBartolo Hall, as he deliv­ered the second lecture in the Martin Luther King Jr. Series for the Study of Race. 
Ruiz challenged the audi­ence to work together in pairs and share some of their own definitions of race. 
For the first half of the lecture, students, staff and community members shared various definitions of race related to a variety of topics. Several audience members proposed race has no scien­tific foundation, and one individual described the concept of race as “unnatur­al.” 
The second half of the lec­ture consisted of Ruiz pre­senting some of his findings and several points about what race is and is not. 
Ruiz first said the meaning and definition of the term race is contextual. It has 
Ruiz said although race is not a biological reality, race is a social reality. He pre­sented a case study of Lake County in Indiana. He showed statistics of demo­graphics, income and high school graduation rate for the towns of Gary, Munster and East Chicago. The study revealed municipalities with larger minority populations had significantly lower income and graduation rates. 
Ruiz also used an example from his year of research at a high school in Long Prairie, Minn. For approxi­mately 25 years the Latino community had a high school graduation rate of zero percent. 
Ruiz said the problem arose from a cultural mis­communication. He said the mostly Caucasian school ­teachers and administrators believed Latino parents were ambivalent toward their children’s education because they never attended parent-teacher conferences. 
Ruiz said he spoke to these parents and found they val-been male-dominated,” he said. “Males are physically stronger and larger than women, but with [weapons] technology today, there is no longer the functional advan­
“Be gender blind. If you have bias, you better get rid of it,” she said. 
Contact Abi Hoverman at ahoverma@nd.edu 


changed 
over time and is differ­ent in differ­ent places. He outlined the origin of the term and concept “race” in the 19th century. He said a modern example is while today he is consid­ered Latino, in the past various terms such as Hispanic, 
“I’m the same person. I haven’t changed, but if I had somehow lived that long I would have been considered all of these different things.” 
Jason Ruiz professor American Studies 
ued education highly, but were reticent to attend parent-teacher confer­ences because 
of cultural taboos against questi oning teachers and because the school did not provide transla­tors. 
The differ ­ence between race and eth ­nicity needs to be clarified, Ruiz said. 
Mexican ­
American and Mexican would have been used. 
“I’m the same person. I haven’t changed, but if I had somehow lived that long I would have been considered all of these different things,” Ruiz said. 
Ruiz said race is also not biological. Ruiz rejected “essentialism,” the concept there are innate racial char­acteristics related to intelli­gence, athleticism and other attributes. He said humans in the same racial group are as genetically distinct as people in different racial groups. 
Ethnicity is determined by 
one’s heritage. He said racial categories do not coincide with ethnicities and are not as legitimate. 
Ruiz said in America race is used more as verb than as a noun. Americans talk about race in terms of it act­ing on individuals and their bodies. 
Ruiz’s final point was “col­orblindness” is not a solu­tion. He said the social reali­ty of race should not be ignored, but instead addressed. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 28, 2011 
Legends and enjoy it this semester.” 
Legends 
Sutton said SUB has 
continued from page 1 
been arranging the lineup since last October, just finish­ing in mid-January. While variety is important, practi­cality is a major considera­tion, he said. 
“At the end of the day, the booking process comes down to availability and affordabili­ty,” Perri said. 
The bold advertising and planning this spring is a con-planned a variety of acts, ranging from more estab ­lished groups to up and com­ing artists. She said SUB tends to focus on newer artists, who appeal to a wide range of students. 
“Because we do our big con­cert outside Legends, we like to do up -and -coming stuff inside,” Sutton said. “Our pri­mary purpose is to program for the entire student body, so we want to take as many tastes 


tinuing hall -“I feel like we have a into account. mark of We’re focusing 
really good variety of
Legends, Perri more on quality said. acts. There will be of act.” 
“Each semes-something for One thing ter we try SUB is trying 
everyone.” 
something new differently this and cutting semester is edge,” he said. Julia Sutton bringing in “We kicked this manager slam poet Anis year off with an Mojgani, Sutton 
Student Union Board
ambitious video marketing trail­er and we’ll continue with our innovative marketing campaigns all semester.” 
Perri said Legends operates like any professional night­club, doing 95 percent of its own event planning. During the semester, Legends allows the Student Union Board (SUB) to host several shows. 
SUB manager Julia Sutton said this freedom of planning has allowed the organization to contribute to Legends’ already stellar lineup, which includes Super Mash Bros., Big Sean, Axis of Awesome and John Mulaney. 
“I feel like we have a really good variety of acts. There will be something for every­one,” she said. “Everyone on campus can get out to said. 
“We usually 
stick to comedy, but we thought Anis was too good to pass up,” she said. 
While Legends may be advertising this as its “best lineup ever,” Perri said Legends is simply continuing to strive to be one of the best live entertainment venues in America. 
“A couple of years ago Pollstar named Legends as one of the top 12 nightclubs in the country for live enter­tainment,” he said. “It’s important to note that we are not simply competing against nightclubs at other college campuses. We had a great lineup that year, but I believe this year is even better.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
iPads 
continued from page 1 
Although student feedback was mostly positive, the e-reader through which the class read textbook and supplemen­tary PDF files posed challenges because of its limitations. 
“One of the criticisms that we saw in the survey [the class took] was that the students said you couldn’t annotate and you couldn’t highlight,” Angst said. “But in fact you can do those things, but you need [to 

purchase an] “We actually have others lan­application to web statistics that guages,” 
do it.” Crutchfield said. 
show that more iPads 
J u l i a n Because of the Velasco, associ-are accessing Notre success of the ate professor at Dame websites as iPad first the Notre Dame semester and 
time has gone on.” 
Law School, continued who is using improvement, iPads in his Jon Crutchfeld Crutchfield said Advanced he foresees an 
consultant 
Topics in increase in the 
Academic Technologies 
Corporate Law class, requires students to purchase iAnnotatePDF, the application to which Angst referred. He also is using different e-reader software. 
“The software used to read the text [last semester] was very clunky software designed for the iPad, a 1.0 at best,” Velasco said. “I wanted to nip that in the bud, and I refused to use proprietary software.” 
Academic Technologies con­sultant Jon Crutchfield believes the upgrades for Velasco’s class will improve students’ experience with iPads. 
“Most of the technical issues [last semester] were the usability of the apps them­selves,” Crutchfield said. “The apps that are available for Professor Velasco’s course are better than those available to the business school course.” 
In addition to Velasco’s class, iPads will be used in Professor Lance Askildson’s course on the Impact of Language, Culture and Identity on Educational Practices. For this class, the iPads have two dis­tinct purposes. 
“They’re both using [iPads] for coursework and trying to 
figure out how 
to use it to teach 
use of iPads and 
their equiva­lents at Notre Dame in the near future. 
“We actually have web sta­tistics that show that more iPads are accessing Notre Dame websites as time has gone on,” Crutchfield said. 
Velasco said while the iPad has contributed to a decrease in their own paper usage, a truly paper-free class does not wait in the future. 
“A completely paperless office? No,” Velasco said. “But as for a drastically reduced paper one? I think absolutely.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 

Friday, January 28, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
a multi-year project of outfit-hung in the center from the term.” 
mining a selection for a future ting rooms with those.” ceiling. Eight computers are 
Books Tech 

Document cameras are ver-connected to these screens and continued from page 1 rental list that is available if a O’Connor said there is a local 
continued from page 1 satile as they enable professors the remaining space on the book is being used for multiple 
to act spontaneously with less walls is painted with white-at any time, O’Connor said. He terms. 
scheduled classrooms and adja-preparation. Professors can use board paint to enable further said there are no disadvantages to “A local rental title must meet 
cent hallways, Burchett said them to display objects freedom in spatial use of the the program as long as students certain criteria. The Store 
the group works with both fixed onscreen without having to room. return the books at the end of the Manager will work closely with 
and portable technologies. Over insert a photograph into their “The idea is that there isn’t a semester. the faculty to identify potential 
the past few years, Learning power point. front or back of the classroom. “The failure to return will result additions to the national list,” he 
Spaces has increased the Burchett said Learning The professor can route any-in a full charge for the book plus said. 
amount of technology available Spaces has noticed a desire to body’s computer to any screen, penalties since that rental book Junior biology major Krystal 
in classrooms. incorporate music in classes. to all 12 screens or a combina­will need to be replaced to ensure Holtcamp said she rented her 
“There are slightly more than “We have more faculty now tion,” Burchett said. “The furni­inventory of that title is available books this semester to help curb 
150 registrar classrooms. Of who want to bring their iPod ture moves so that the room for rent for an upcoming term by costs. 
those classrooms, we have and plug it in to play music. can be rearranged.” other students,” O’Connor said. “I thought it was a really good 
fixed technology, like ceiling One professor used the docu-Upon walking into the class, According to O’Connor, not option to be able to rent books 
monitors and projectors, in ment camera to display a musi-one section of the whiteboard every textbook in the library is especially me as a science major 
about 130,” he said. “A few cal score while playing the sym-reads, “Do not erase!” Scrawled available for rent in the bookstore, it’s very helpful because my books 
years ago, we would have only phonic piece,” he said. underneath are comments left but there is a large database from are so expensive,” she said. 
had 60 percent of the rooms “Students could then visually by faculty and students who which students may choose. Holtcamp said it was a simple 
with technology. Now we’re see the standard notation while have used the room. Burchett “Since the Shaheen Bookstore is process. 
over 80 percent.” hearing the music.” said that feedback from both part of the Follett Higher “I had a great experience,” she 
In the 20 remaining “low-Burchett said faculty often sides is extremely valuable. Education network a large nation-said. “All I had to do was show 
tech” classrooms, faculty mem-asks for enhancements, with “We want faculty feedback, al data base of rental eligible titles them my ID and they had it ready 
bers are still able to use multiple projectors being but students often are the best is immediately available,” for me.” 
portable equipment, Burchett among the most requested. evaluators of whether faculty O’Connor said. “A faculty member 
said. “When we visit other schools are using technology effectively. may visit rent-a-text.com to view Contact Ashley Charnley at 
“We don’t want them to feel like Purdue, we notice that it I think everyone, whether this national list as they are deter-acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
cut off from technology if seems to be a trend to have you’re at a conference, training they’re scheduled in one of more than one projector and session, or class, has been sub-those rooms,” he said. more than one screen,” jected to death by PowerPoint,” 
In the classrooms with fixed Burchett said. “We think that he said. “There’s so much more technology, the professor oper-will be something that will hap-that can be done with technolo­ates equipment through a con-pen here over the next three to gy.” trol panel. Their choices five years as well.” To gather this information, include the lectern computer, With multiple screens, a pro-Learning Spaces conducts sur­an individual laptop, a DVD fessor might continue one static veys. One quick way to give player and a document camera. display, such as a power point, feedback is through Student With each use, Learning Spaces while simultaneously running a Government, who meets with records statistics in a database dynamic video or simulation on Learning Spaces on a regular for analysis. another. Burchett said only a basis. 
“It’s not surprising that the few classrooms on campus “And of course, people can most overwhelmingly used allow this, but he predicts a always contact me directly if device in the classroom is shift to multiple screens in they want to, either by phone either the Windows computer other classes in the future. or in my office,” Burchett said. that is provided or the laptop a An experimental multiple-“If I’m in my office, come on in professor brings,” Burchett screen classroom is located in and tell me what you think.” said. “The document cameras the basement of DeBartolo Hall, will probably be used more Burchett said. Eight displays Contact Nicole Toczauer at because this year we completed line the walls, with four more ntoczaue@nd.edu



The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Friday, January 28, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Tunnel Vision 

After living in McCandless Hall for both my first and second years at Saint Mary’s, I never thought I would appreciate living in another residence hall as much as I do. 
Don’t get me 

wrong — Alicia Smith McCandless will always have a 
Associate Saint 
place in my heart 

Mary’s Editor 
— but I will never regret my decision to move into my cozy single with a shared bathroom on the second floor of Le Mans. 
McCandless has its perks; it’s close to the gym so during the frigid months of December, January and February, I don’t have to freeze when I feel the need to work out. 
It’s also close to the parking lot, making it a whole lot nicer to walk home from my car at night. And, with the close proximity to park­ing, I have to struggle less when I attempt to carry in my bags of gro­ceries back to my room after going to the store. 
Additionally, the rooms have large windows in McCandless, so a lot of light can shine in during the day, which I always appreciate. 
The building itself is also newer, which means the rooms are less damaged, and it has air condition­ing in the hallways and study car­rels, making the building tolerable to live in during the summer months. 
Despite the benefits of living in my old residence hall, last year I decided to branch out and try a new building. 
My new room has twice the floor space of my old room. In my McCandless single, the only seating I had room for was on my bed. This year, I have upgraded to a futon. 
I also love Le Mans because of its location. Smack dab in the middle of campus, it is less than a five minute walk from Le Mans to every building on campus. 
What I love most about Le Mans is the tunnel connecting Le Mans to the Student Center. 
I never thought I would appreci­ate the tunnel as much as I do, but I quickly discovered its charm. As I write this column, it is below freez­ing outside. Because of the tunnel, I didn’t have to go outside in the frigid cold to get dinner. 
On weekends, if I choose, I can stay inside all day long and still eat in the dining hall. 
At 11:30 p.m., when I run out of salsa to go with my tortilla chips, I can walk downstairs, go through the tunnel and buy some in the C-Store without ever stepping foot in the cold — not to mention when it rains. 
Assuming I’m coming from my dorm, I will never have to walk in the pouring rain to eat meals again. 
The tunnel, among other details, adds to the charm of this older 
building. With its hardwood floors, transom windows and random trap doors located in a variety of rooms, I have fallen in love with my resi­dence hall. 
There are days when I miss McCandless, but I’ll never regret choosing Le Mans. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
Gates is an important choice 
Robert Gates is not Stephen Colbert. Nor is he Bono. 
He has never appeared on the cover of Entertainment Weekly or been named one of People Magazine’s “Sexiest Man Alive.” 
Rather, U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates was fea­tured on the February 2010 cover of Time Magazine. In 2009, Esquire put him on its list of “The 75 Best People in the World.” 
Gates may not be the most entertaining choice for Commencement speaker, or the first name a senior in a wishful state might think of. But he is a good choice, and an important one. 
As the Class of 2011 prepares to graduate and to enter what is fearfully referred to as “adulthood,” it will hear from a man who is intricately linked with some of the most press­ing issues facing America today. 
He is also connected to college students; before accepting his position as secretary of defense in 2006, Gates was the president of Texas A&M. He under­stands seniors’ mindsets as we approach Commencement day, and we expect he will be ready with a relevant and, yes, captivating speech. His penchant for dry one-liners is not a secret, nor is most Notre Dame students’ ability to understand sarcasm, we think. 
Gates is the only defense secretary ever to keep his posi­tion under a new president and has kept his message con­sistent under both President George W. Bush and President Barack Obama. 
He is a figure who could be highly controversial, but is instead unifying. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Gates might be unpopular with some for one reason or another — his role in the Iraq war; his criticism of “don’t ask, don’t tell;” his Aggie pride — but no one can deny his leadership and his dedication to this country. He has made many important, tough decisions throughout his career and has stuck by the results. The experience gained in those moments of choice is something any graduating senior should be eager to learn from. 
The choice of Gates as Commencement speaker and hon­orary degree recipient is symbolic for the University as well. 
Last year, the choice of Brian Williams as 
Commencement speaker was received by some 
as a retreat by Notre Dame, an attempt to deflect 
the controversy from Obama’s 2009 address. 
But the decision to honor a government official 
this year shows the University’s willingness not 
to back down, and to legitimize its choice of two 
years ago. Despite working for Obama, Gates will probably not invite the type of criticism so rampant in 2009; but when it issued this invitation, Notre Dame undoubtedly understood all of its nuances. 
This is a selection the Notre Dame community and, more importantly, the senior class should embrace as the right choice for our University and for the Class of 2011. Gates may not be a popular talk show host or the president of the United States, but we’re happy with where he falls in between those two standards. 
What he is, among other things, is a celebrated and cen­tral figure sure to have significant words. 
He’s also an Eagle Scout, so we can only imagine popcorn tubs were included in this deal. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Luck is what you have left overafter you give 100 percent.” 
Langston Coleman former University of Nebraska football player 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The greatest conflicts are not between two people but between one person and himself.” 
Garth Brooks 
U.S. Country music artist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Friday, January 28, 2011 page 7 
Paradise 

In the heart of Milwaukee, near the shore of Lake Michigan, lost some­where in the depths of memory, there is a playground. 
This playground unfurls, in every direction, farther than the eye can 
Daniel Sportiello 
see. It reaches into the heavens, almost into the clouds, as Bound though it were a Variables citadel — and, like a citadel, it is a holy place, one of everlasting light and joy: it is a place where death has no sting, where the gods still walk, where the lion lies down with the lamb. It is a place beyond the comprehension of men. 
This playground exists now only in my memory: it was torn down long ago 
— not by man or by machine, but rather by the merciless march of time, by the Fall that each of us, in leaving his childhood behind, comes to know. In that time, my world was an exten­sion of myself: things were as they seemed to me to be — and were emo­tionally charged as I felt them to be. So when I, at two years of age, stood before what seemed a second Garden of Eden — a playground that dwarfed me, that was quite literally larger than I could understand, that promised something that I can now recognize as salvation — I did not know to wonder whether I had deceived myself. 
The destruction of this playground was of the greatest kind: to never have been in the first place. Even now, through the mists of memory, I can barely see it: if I look at it squarely, it evaporates as something impossible. I can see it only out of the corner of my mind’s eye — can remember, that is, only how it seemed to me as a child. How beautiful it was, and how fleet­ing. 
“Go play,” my young mother and father said to me, beaming with pride at their firstborn son. They had brought me, for the first time, to Summerfest — the city’s annual lakeshore music festival: the presence of the playground was, I assume, merely a concession to the family val­ues lobby. But this did not deter me as I ran forward, my heart full of para­dise. 
I had played for what seemed like years — but must have been only min­utes — when suddenly I was snatched by my parents and whisked away. “Where were you?” they demanded, desperate. “We thought that we had lost you! Why did you leave the play­ground?” I tried to articulate an answer — that they were wrong, that I hadn’t left the playground, that they had lost track of me only because the 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

I want America to stay conscious and beautiful 
Wednesday’s article, (“The environmentally unconscious one; or, Why I love America,” Jan. 26), has to be a joke. In case it wasn’t a satire, I just want to state that the deeds of the environmentally unconscious people also make the future generations and the environmentally conscious ones responsible for what they didn’t do. 
It’s not a secret that Americans are not the most environmentally conscious people in the world. But it is not just those Europeans who care about the envi­ronment. I am from South Korea. I learned how to recycle from elementary school, while I saw some of my Americans friends at Notre Dame simply not knowing how to recycle. “I didn’t know you can recycle plastic wrappers!” a remark of surprise from my American friend surprised me back. “How can you not know that?” Probably because America has been the country of material abundance, people who want to conserve the environment don’t practice simple things they can do. For example, not buying unnecessary stuff that you’ll end up throwing away almost new, turning off your laptop and lights when not using and using water containers instead of buying bottled water. 
America has been the leading soft power in the world. At the same time, how­ever, it is the leading country in terms of destructing our environment. Americans produce the largest carbon dioxide emission per capita, trumping China and the rest of the world roughly by four times, according to the Guardian. Prof. Susan Rosato defined soft power as an attraction of the culture and politics that makes other countries want to emulate the country. But I do not want my country to emulate an America that is wealthy, but environmentally unconscious, sickening herself and others. 
Despite that, “Picking Up America” reminds me why I still respect America: there are also a lot of people who are conscious about the extended implications of their actions. In Korean (and Chinese), the literal translation of the word “America” is the “beautiful country.” I want America to stay beautiful; although there have been some discussions to change the name to the more objective “rice country.” 
Jee Seun Choi 
junior Farley Hall Jan. 26 

Tunnels are not so cozy 
I don’t know if you’ve ever been in the tunnels before, and from your letter, (“Open the tunnels,” Jan. 16), it is pretty clear that you haven’t, but to be honest it’s not really a warm cozy corridor you can use to walk in between buildings to escape the South Bend weather. It’s hot and dirty and you’re very likely to hit your head on a lightbulb. Just sayin’. 
Colin Hofman 
alumnus Class of 2010 Jan. 26 
playground was really that big — that, in essence, I had no knowledge of the evil of my action and did not deserve to be sent forth from the Garden — but, in my youth, I lacked the words. I am sure that I would have screamed had I not been so gripped by horror and confusion. 
I vowed to return. And I finally did, in a sense. But I was fifteen years old. And the playground was, well, just a playground: it no longer dwarfed me, no longer reached into the heavens, no longer promised salvation. And, I finally realized, it never had: in that original sin, I lost not only paradise but even the fact that I had once had it. 
I would, at this point, typically wax philosophical about the loss involved in any Enlightenment. You can imag­ine how that would go. But I have, in the meantime, at the end of some jour­ney that I do not yet fully understand, found salvation. 
In the heart of Saint Louis, near the shore of the Mississippi River, as though pulled from the depths of memory, there is a playground. 
It is a place beyond the comprehen­sion of men: it is called the City Museum, though it is not a museum and has nothing to do with a city — except, perhaps, the New Jerusalem. Indeed, it is difficult to describe at all: I could mention its seven-storey slide, its network of caves, its jet aircraft, its aquarium, its circus, and its Ferris Wheel without really explaining its essence. I can say, in the end, only that it is a playground commensurate with your imagination. 
But more important than this place, this second paradise, is what it repre­sents: it is an ethical miracle, a salva­tion that I in no way deserve but have been granted nonetheless. It is an act of grace. 
This, the perfect playground, is not in itself proof of the Incarnation. But it is, at least, an indication — even if only a psychological one: it is a reminder that, whatever the conclu­sions into which life forces us — what­ever the iron cage of concepts that we build around ourselves — we can always be wrong. It is a reminder that we sometimes fare better than we deserve — better, even, than we thought possible. It is a reminder that what seems lost in the depths of mem­ory may not be lost after all. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his third year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. Listen to his radio show on WVFI. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
#isthisreallife 
Apparently the South Bend City Council passed an ordinance that requires residents to clear the sidewalks in front of their homes within 24 hours of a major snowstorm. Being an off-campus resident, this brought a few things to mind: 
1) What in the world is this city council doing that sidewalks are at the top of their agenda? I don’t see a whole lot of people taking leisurely strolls in the nuclear winter outside. These people should be more focused on gun safety and theft — I’m pretty sure the sidewalks aren’t robbing and killing people. 
2) Shoveling your sidewalk after EVERY snowstorm in South Bend is equivalent to making your bed every day — I’m just going to sleep in it tomorrow night (or, more likely, in three hours for a nap). These people have probably lived in South Bend their entire lives, so it’s likely that they understand how often it snows here, and, therefore, how often people would have to shovel their sidewalks. If you want to make sure your citi­zens are working out the recommended 30 minutes-a-day, this is a round­about way of doing it. 
3) If the city of South Bend cannot adequately clear the roads for cars in 24 hours following a snowstorm, how am I expected to clear my sidewalk? I’m a college student, I’m too busy going to classes and Club Fever to do that. But, if the city steps its game up, and I am not sliding up and down my street when I’m trying to drive to campus, I’ll go get my shovel. 
#isthisreallife #smh 
Joe Deters 
senior off campus Jan. 27 
Have any thoughts you care to share? 
Write a Letter to the Editor. 

The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Friday, January 28, 2011 

Snoop Dogg certainly kept the Fever crowd waiting Wednesday night, but as soon as he took the stage shortly before 11, the packed house forgave him his tardiness. The generation-spanning rapper, and vocal USC fan, stepped into the limelight wearing an extra-large No. 3 Notre Dame foot­ball jersey with a large diamond necklace, and for the next 50 min­utes few of the 1,200 in atten­dance had a care in the world. 
While tickets for the show claimed it began at 8 p.m., the opening act of up­and-coming rapper Delano, a member of Snoop’s Doggy Style Records, began around 8:45 p.m., and lasted a little more than half an hour. The sold-out crowd then waited, and waited, and waited some more while Club Fever pumped in some of Snoop’s biggest hits, including “California Gurls” by Katy Perry. 

Though the bars at Fever ran out of pitchers before 7:30, and by 10 p.m. no fan could move in any direction without bumping into two strangers, no one considered leaving. Rather, the crowd of South Bend’s young and mid­dle-aged adults, Notre Dame students and even Notre Dame alumni from as far as Chicago simply grew more and more excited. 
Finally, amid rumors that if he did 
not take the stage by 11, Snoop would 
be fined $10,000, the Doggfather 
grabbed the microphone with only 
three minutes to spare. He then launched into some of his live perform­ance antics, begging the crowd to shout his name louder with each verse of each song. If Snoop Dogg knows how to do anything better than pro­duce massively-successful raps, it is throwing the crowd into a frenzy. Each song involved participation, even if it was only Snoop urging the crowd to wave its arms to his beat, to which the crowd eagerly obliged. 
He played some of his more recent hits as well as some of his classics from the 90s. The classics, such as “Who Am I (What’s My Name)?” struck a chord with the older half of the crowd and hits from the latter half of the past decade, “I Wanna Rock,” “Sensual Seduction” and “Drop It Like It’s Hot,” sent the college-aged groups into a possibly drug-assisted euphoria. 
Snoop introduced “Drop It Like It’s Hot,” a 2004 hit, with an old-school touch, rapping the first verse of “Jump Around” by House of Pain. As Snoop said to a loud roar, “Now that I know y’all can get up, now I want you to … drop it like it’s hot.” 
Another highlight of the night occurred when Snoop paid tribute to his former friend and music partner Tupac Shakur. The rapper was infa­mously killed during the East Coast-West Coast rap rivalry in 1996. 
In such a short performance, Snoop managed to play nearly every one of hisbiggest hits. To the disappointment of the crowd, he left out his newest single, “Wet.” “Wet,” originally written as a wedding gift for Prince William intended to be the anthem of his bach­elor party, is the second single off Snoop’s upcoming album, “Doggumentary.” Snoop teased the audience with references to the new song, only to dive into “Sensual Seduction.” What a let down. 
Aside from making the crowd wait an unnecessary two hours and leaving out his newest song, Snoop didn’t miss a beat, and kept the crowd buzzing throughout his performance. Apparently, he enjoyed the show as much as his fans did, saying as he left, “I’ll be back to South Bend, Indiana, any time you [four-syllable profanity] want me back.” 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 


By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writer 

Have you ever walked out of a movie theater and thought to your­self, “Was that a sequel? Because I’m pretty sure that I’ve seen (insert actor’s name here) playing the same character before.” 
Don’t worry, you ’re not going crazy, searching IMDb as soon as you return home and frantically exploring similar titles to appease your curious mind. There is just a disease in Hollywood: typecasting. It’s lethal, and it will not be eradi­cated. 
In defense of some of the film industry, many actors and actresses avoid this plague and accept com­pletely unexpected roles. They attempt to distance themselves from their fame as a child star or their first few movies. And many success­fully make this transition. 
When the late Heath Ledger first entered the American film industry, movie producers saw his good looks, accent and skill, which they deemed perfect for young adult romantic comedies; no one can deny he shined in those roles. But he knew that he wanted to be more than just a pretty face, so he broke out of his typecast and accepted different, more complex roles. That desire and drive earned him his first Oscar nomination (“Brokeback Mountain”) and Oscar win (“The Dark Knight”). 
And Ledger is just one of many actors who have achieved this goal. But there are scores of others who either choose not to break their mold or who are unable to do so. But quite frankly, and I may be alone in this, at some point the viewing public will tire of paying $10 to see the same actor reprise the same role, just with a different name. 
The bug spans generations. It struck Vivien Leigh, an actress of the mid-twentieth century. In her role as the beautiful and scheming Scarlett O’Hara in “Gone with the Wind” (1939), she perfected the pout and the attitude of a spoiled Southern girl, convinced she deserved anything she wanted. It was a masterful performance, and she deserved her Oscar. 
Then, amazingly, 12 years later she won an Oscar for the same role! She was Blanche DuBois, a preten­tious Southern belle with illusions of grandeur and an eye for abusive men in the film adaptation of Tennessee Williams’s “A Streetcar Named Desire.” 
In our times, the contagion which infected Leigh has spread to Katherine Heigl. In her breakout role, she played the uptight girl accidently impregnated by a one night stand in 2007’s “Knocked Up.” Although her baby daddy was a party animal and seemingly com­pletely incompatible with her per­sonality, the two realize they are perfect for each other before the credits roll. Cue 2008’s “27 Dresses,” 2009’s “The Ugly Truth” and 2010’s “Life As We Know It.” Spoiler alert: the same thing hap­pens. 
Now, I know, they’re all romantic comedies so they do all more or less have to follow a similar plot arch and reach a happy ending. But I have seen these movies done well. It is not done well if I can predict for you before the movie starts when, down to the minute, the climax of the movie occurs and both charac­ters realize they’re madly in love with each other. 
And for all you feminists out there, don’t worry, this is not just a disease plaguing actresses. Michael Cera has captivated audiences since 2007’s “Superbad.” He played the adorably dorky Evan, who along with his best friend Seth (Jonah Hill), wanted to attend a boozed up high school party and meet girls. He played an adorably dorky Paulie Bleeker that same year, accidentally impregnat­ing his girlfriend (Ellen Page) in “Juno.” He played an adorably dorky Scott Pilgrim in last year’s “Scott Pilgrim vs. the World,” defeating his girlfriend’s exes to win her heart. And phew, he won the girl every time. 
Clearly, typecasting has worked for many of these actors, but who is to say it will work forever. Eddie Murphy as a sidekick is the best thing Disney has done since “The Lion King.” But he has played other roles. 
Parents and teachers are always encouraging young minds to be unique. Perhaps actors should seek out better mentors. Ones who will urge them towards new and distinc­tive roles instead of allowing them to play the same characters repeat­edly. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at 
modenne5@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Friday, January 28, 2011 page 9 

By ALEXANDRA KILPATRICK 
Scene Writer 
“Ride the Divide” chronicles the story of three mountain bikers pedaling their way from Banff, Canada, to the Mexican border. The documentary film, directed by Hunter Weeks and Mike Dion, recently won “Best Adventure Film” at the 2010 Vail Film Festival in Colorado. 
The film, currently on its Midwest mid-winter tour, will make an appear­ance in South Bend Sunday at Notre Dame’s Eck Visitors Center. With stun­ning cinematography, the movie quick­ly entered into the realm of cycling classics and first premiered on the Documentary Channel back in September. 
Three characters relay their experi­ences of participating in the world’s most difficult mountain bike race, the 2,711 -mile Tour Divide, spanning along the Continental Divide in the Rocky Mountains. Mike is a 40-year­old family man who embarks on the challenge in order to find new mean­ing in his life. In contrast, Matthew is an experienced leader in extreme endurance racing and a five-time com­petitor in the Tour Divide. Mary, on the other hand, is the first female cyclist to participate in the bike race. The docu­mentary is about the accomplishments of these three cyclists as they attempt to race a route that very few have been able to complete. 
Over the mere time frame of a few weeks, Mike, Matthew and Mary climb more than 200,000 vertical feet on their bikes over the mountain range — the equivalent of ascending Mount Everest from sea level seven times over. The feat of the physical journey is as straining as that of the mental and emotional one. The characters are put to the test as they experience debilitating fatigue, mental break­downs, extreme amounts of snow and complete isolation. Such tests of the mind and body, as well as the charac­ters’ accomplishments, allow the view­ers to reflect on the documentary’s ultimate message of living life to the fullest. 
The film’s soundtrack is currently on sale on the documentary’s official web­site. The movie features music from folk rock musician Dominique Fraissard, Queens-based post rock band The American Dollar, and indie singer songwriter Amy Petty. 
Proceeds from the film benefit LIVE­STRONG, Lance Armstrong’s nonprofit organization that provides support for cancer sufferers and their families. See a special screening of the award winning documentary “Ride the Divide” at the Eck Visitor’s Center this Sunday night at 7 p.m. Tickets are $15 at the door and $10 in advance. 
Contact Alexandra Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 
On campus 
What: “Ride The Divide” film screeningWhere: Eck Visitors Center When: Sunday, 7 p.m.How much: $15 at the door; $10 in advance 


By ADRIANA PRATT 
Associate Scene Editor 

With smooth North Carolinian accents that melt in your ear like apple butter on a biscuit, it’s hard not to fall in love with the Avett Brothers at first sound. Watch their charming interviews and you’re toast. This band means business and is out to win the hearts of folk lovers all around. 
Scott and Seth Avett will be head­lining a show at the Morris Performing Arts Center Saturday at 8 p.m. to an audience infatuated with their folksy ballads and upbeat anthems. Joining them on stage will be cellist Joe Kwon, who joined the group in 2007, and fellow band mate Bob Crawford on the standup bass. 
The band officially formed in 2001 in Charlotte, North Carolina under the title “Nemo Back Porch Project,” according to the Avett Brothers web­site. Scott Avett manned the banjo while Seth played the guitar and both contributed to the crooning vocals. Crawford joined the group after meeting up with the Avett brothers in an empty parking lot and playing some folk classics with them. 
“These two guys showed up in a gold Ford Taurus station wagon wearing flannel shirts and cutoff pants. They were total grunge kids. We sat in the parking lot, just the three of us, and played ‘Going Down the Road Feelin’ Bad’ and ‘More Pretty Girls Than One,’” Crawford said on theavettbrothers.com 
The band went from “Nemo Back Porch Project” to the Avett Brothers and began touring in 2002, occa­sionally accompanied by Kwon. Regional success turned into nation­al acclaim and the band opened for acts such as Dave Matthews Band in 2009 and John Mayer in 2010. 
Rick Rubin, a producer who worked with legendary performers like Johnny Cash, Neil Diamond and Jay-Z, signed the band to his American/Columbia Records label in 2008, according to spin.com. From this union came the Avett Brothers’ highly-acclaimed 2009 album, “I and Love and You.” 
“I and Love and You” hit No. 1 on Billboard’s folk albums chart and Rolling Stone magazine named the Avett Brothers “the Artist to Watch of 2009.” In an interview with Fuse on Demand, Seth Avett noted the thematically heavy material that was covered on the album and from where the inspiration for the title was drawn. 
“For the record, I wanted a title that was grand … As I started to write the mission statement about it, just a lot of thoughts came up about the phrase itself, the phrase ‘I love you,’ which is, you know, arguably the most important phrase we have in any language. Every song we write, every day we live, that’s sort of the centerpiece of our existence,” Seth said. 
The largest hits to come from the album thus far are its namesake song, “I and Love and You” and “Head Full of Doubt/Road Full of Promise.” Both exhibit the chal­lenges faced during the transition from youth to adulthood and the seriousness that comes with growing older. 
The Avett Brothers draw their material from their own life experi­ences and work to write songs that both they and the audience can relate to. 
“I think on the whole the album makes some comment on the fact that we are young men, but that youth is fleeting and it goes by very quickly. When you’re moving out of your 20s and into this time when you’re hoping to build something, it’s a beautiful thing and a scary thing,” Seth Avett said on the band’s website. 
The Avett Brothers kicked off their 2009 tour to promote the album at Indianapolis’s venue “The Vogue” and haven’t looked back since. Head to the Morris Performing Arts Center 
on Saturday and let the Avett Brothers guide you on the journey all students face when preparing for life after college. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
On campus 
What: Avett Brothers concert with opening act The David MayfieldParade Where: The Morris Performing Arts Center When: Saturday, 8 p.m.How much: $35 for Pit Orchestra, Main floor, Boxes, Mezzanine, and 1st and 2nd Balconies; $25 for 3rd Balcony 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

Friday, January 28, 2011 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS page 10 
NFL 

Pittsburgh franchise confdent heading into Super Bowl 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — The Steel City can make a strong case for a new nickname. 
The Steelers have won more Super Bowls than any team in the NFL, and are one victory away from hoisting the Vince Lombardi Trophy a seventh time. The Penguins have reached the Stanley Cup finals twice in the last three seasons. Pitt has developed into a Top 5 college basket­ball program. 
They have beautiful new stadiums, state -of -the -art practice facilities, and a sup­portive fan base, too. 
Perhaps the City of Champions is a more fitting moniker for this blue-collar, gritty town. 
“It’s a great label,” Steelers wide receiver Antwaan Randle El said. “I would have to say it’s accurate to a cer­tain degree because of Steelers football, Pitt basket­ball and you can’t discount hockey. They’ve always had big-time players and all of those players always come back.” 
Bostonians have a legit argument. The Patriots, Red Sox and Celtics have com­bined to win six champi ­onships since 2002. That’s wicked good. 
But in this what-have-you­done-for-me-lately society, Pittsburgh is the hot city and the ‘Stillers ’ are the hot team. 
Ben Roethlisberger and the Steelers are on the verge of winning their third Super Bowl in six seasons. They’ll face the Green Bay Packers in Dallas on Feb. 6. 
Sidney Crosby and the Penguins could make it two Stanley Cup titles in three years later this spring. 
If the woeful Pirates could only go back to the days of Clemente or Stargell or Bonds, then Pittsburgh would be the clear-cut choice. 
Then again, baseball is irrelevant here these days. Football is No. 1 among the sports-crazed folks, and the Steelers — as Jay-Z would say — run this town. 
“The fans here don’t just love football, they under ­stand football,” nose tackle Chris Hoke said. “They know the game, so it’s great. You’ll be out in the town and they’ll come up and want to talk about the game. ... It’s excit­ing to be here. They love the Penguins, but it’s Steelers football 365 days a year.” 
Fans rooting for other teams don’t even think about coming to Heinz Field wear­ing their colors. They may be a little more laid -back in western Pennsylvania, but the die-hards here are simi­lar to those notorious Eagles fans in Philadelphia when it comes to defending their turf. 
“You’d be in Washington and the Dallas Cowboys come to town, the stands are filled with Cowboys jerseys and Cowboys fans walking the streets, or New York Giants fans,” safety Ryan Clark said. “Here, it’s Pittsburgh or you may get jumped. That’s what I think is amazing about this place. People are born fans. Kids, I can meet kids, they have no choice. Like if they want to like somebody else, they may lose parents. I think that’s amazing.” 
Rooting for the Steelers is a birthright for fans, and win­ning championships is an expectation for every player that puts on a black and gold uniform. 
“Since I’ve been here, we feel like we’re always going to be in the hunt for the Super Bowl,” injured tackle Max Starks said. 
Terry Bradshaw, Franco Harris, Lynn Swann and Co. set the standard when they won four Super Bowl titles in a six-year span in the late 1970s. There were some down times in the 80s and 90s, though Neil O’Donnell led the Steelers to the 1996 Super Bowl — a loss to Dallas. 
After a 26-year drought, Roethlisberger helped the Steelers earn one for the thumb in February 2006. The Steelers added a record sixth title to their trophy case two years ago. Now, they’re going for No. 7. 
“Expectations are sky high in this city dating back to the 70s when those guys won four Super Bowls,” corner­back Ike Taylor said. “We got Pitt basketball playing good ball and I jumped on the Penguins bandwagon a few years ago. Hopefully we can get the Pirates going sooner or later.” 
That’s not likely. 

The Pirates are coming off a record-setting 18th consec­utive losing, and their chances of contending would-n’t be any worse if Taylor and eight Steelers were pen­ciled into the lineup every day. 
Good thing fans here have the Steelers, Penguins and Panthers to cheer. About a dozen people lined up outside the Steelers practice facility Thursday, braving the cold, snowy weather in hopes that a player or two would sign an autograph. 
“We love our Steelers,” said Arlene Hopson, a student at Pitt. “The Packers don ’t stand a chance next week.” 
NBA 

James, Wade honored by All-Star selection 
one shy of the record held by team, try to represent our Fans voted for the starters, East vote seems entirely right. 
Associated Press 

Jerry West, Shaquille O’Neal franchise the right way every but the reserves will be chosen Stoudemire, James and Wade 
NEW YORK — LeBron James and Karl Malone. time we go out on the basket-by the head coaches in their are all in the league’s top five and Dwyane Wade of the The other starters ball court, and the fact that respective conferences. Their in scoring, and Rose and Miami Heat are headed to the announced Thursday were we’ve had so many votes by votes must be submitted to the Howard are right there with All-Star game together, and Hornets guard Chris Paul, for-these fans, like I said it’s very league office by next Tuesday, them as MVP candidates. Derrick Rose gave the Chicago wards Kevin Durant of humbling and we appreciate and the announcement will “It’s an honor,” Wade said of Bulls their first starter since Oklahoma City and Carmelo it,” James said before the Heat come next Thursday night. his election. “It’s not as big a Michael Jordan. Anthony of Denver, and faced the New York Knicks. Stoudemire has revitalized deal as it was when I first 
They will be joined in the Houston center Yao Ming, who Rose beat out the Celtics’ the Knicks since coming from came in. It was like my heart Eastern Conference starting is injured and will be replaced Rajon Rondo to earn his first Phoenix in the summer. He was racing the day of the final lineup by Amare Stoudemire, on the roster by a player of All-Star start and the first by a beat out perennial starter vote hoping I get in. It contin­who will become the first New commissioner David Stern’s Chicago player since Jordan Kevin Garnett for the second ues to be an honor to get the York Knicks player to start in choosing. started the 1998 game. forward spot and is just the same respect from the fans.” nearly two decades, and James and Wade, who both “I think it’s recognition for fifth Knick to be selected a The West vote was flawed Orlando center Dwight received more than 2 million the job he’s done this year,” starter since fans began voting with the election of Yao, who Howard, the leading vote-get-votes from fans, will become Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau in 1974-75. Patrick Ewing was despite missing nearly the ter in the conference with the first set of teammates to said. “All-Star games, those the last one to start in 1992, entire season continues to nearly 2.1 million. start for the East since Wade are great. He certainly earned though he was elected again in earn a huge vote total from his 
The Lakers’ Kobe Bryant and O’Neal represented the it, but ... I’m more concerned 1997 but couldn’t play native China. West coach earned his 13th straight All-Heat in the 2007 game in Las with what he’s done for our because of a strained left Gregg Popovich of the San Star selection for the Feb. 20 Vegas. team. And he’s done a lot for groin. Antonio Spurs will pick one of game at his home arena. He is “We try to represent our the team.” In a rarity in fan voting, the his reserves to start. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 

CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
FOR RENT 
GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT RENTAL: House for rent for gradua­tion/JPW/weddings,football, etc. Perfect location-right next to the new Eddy Street Commons-walk to everything-safe family oriented street. Email nd­house@sbcglobal.net for additional info and photos 
———————————————— Walk to Campus Student Housing. 1, 2, and 3 bedrooms from $465 per 

bed. Swimming Pool, Fitness Center, Tanning Beds. Clover Village and Clover Ridge. 574.272.8124 www.clovervillagea partments.com 
———————————————— 
NOTICES 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit 
Notre Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu 
———————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu 
———————————————— Facebook has over 350 million active users. More than 35 million users update their status each day, with more than 55 million status updates each day. 
———————————————— More than 2.5 billion pictures are 
uploaded to Facebook each month. 
———————————————— The average Facebook user has 
130 friends and sends eight friend 
requests per month. 
———————————————— A recent survey of 500 top colleges found that 10% of admissions offi­cers acknowledged looking at social networking sites such as Facebook to evaluate applicants. Thirty-eight percent of admissions officers said that what they saw negatively affected the applicant. 
———————————————— Americans spend 13.9 billion min­utes a year on Facebook and five billion minutes on MySpace. 
———————————————— If Facebook were a country, it would be the fifth-largest country in the world, after China, India, the U.S., and Indonesia. ———————————————— 

Friday, January 28, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
PGA 
Woods starts year with 3-under par 



Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO — Tiger Woods began his new season with no bogeys, no birdies on the par 5s and no drama. 
Looking for a new start after a disastrous year on and off the golf course, Woods felt little stress Thursday in the Farmers Insurance Open with a 3-under 69 on the North Course that left him five shots behind South Korean rookie Sunghoon Kang. 
If the setting was familiar for Woods, so was his middle-of­the-pack position. In four of his six wins at this tournaments, he has been at least five shots behind after the opening round. 
“I’m happy with the way I played, absolutely,” Woods said. “I could have been a lot better if I took care of the par 5s a lit­tle bit more, but obviously, I didn’t do that.” 
Kang, a 24-year-old rookie, finished with back-to-back birdies on the North Course for an 8-under 64, giving him a one-shot lead over Alex Prugh and Rickie Fowler. Another rookie, Chris Kirk, was another shot back at 66. 
Phil Mickelson shot 32 on the back nine for a 5-under 67 to match the best score on the tougher South Course, which hosted the 2008 U.S. Open that Woods won in a playoff. Also at 67 on the South was John Daly, whose last win came in 2004 at this tournament. He is the last player to win at Torrey Pines when Woods was in the field. 
“This place means a lot to me,” Daly said. “The top golfers play here every year. That says something.” 
Woods no longer is No. 1 — he has slipped to No. 3 in the world ranking and can’t improve on that this week — but he has not played the public course he has practically owned since that U.S. Open in 2008. He missed the next year because of knee surgery, and last year while in a Mississippi addiction clinic after being caught in extramarital affairs. 
“Welcome back to Torrey,” was a popular phrase from the gallery throughout his round, in which Woods played solidly except on the greens. He made only two putts longer than 3 feet — a 10-foot par save on No. 8, and a 25-foot birdie putt on the par-3 sixth that bounced along until catching the right corner of the cup. 
“I didn’t leave myself any putts,” Woods said. “I kept leav­ing myself above the hole. And I didn’t take advantage of the par 5s.” 
The North Course is not the pushover it has been in past years because of some new length, and not just in distance. Along with being some 90 yards longer, the rough was allowed to grow and is thicker than the grass found on the South Course. 
“I didn’t know the North was as long as the South,” Ben Curtis said after a 70. He knows better, but it felt that way if tee shots did not stay in the nar­row, canted fairways. 
Woods was in shorter grass on half of his 14 tee shots, although four of those misses came on the par 5s. He couldn’t get to the green in two, and didn’t make the birdie putts. 
Even so, he looked more like the Woods who ended last year with a playoff loss at the Chevron World Challenge, not the guy who played so poorly for so much of the year that he didn’t win on the PGA Tour for the first time in his career. 
It felt like a typical season-opener for Woods, including his position on the leaderboard. In his last four trips to this PGA Tour event, he has trailed by seven, six, five and two shots after the opening round and went on to win them all. 

page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, January 28, 2011 
Practice this week has con­sisted largely of doubles 
Detail 
practices to allow each pair 
continued from page 16 
upcoming event. 
“After our first week, our coaches have some good insight into doubles improve­ments and singles adjust ­ments that each of us can incorporate into the matches this weekend,” junior Shannon Mathews said. “In doubles, improved communi­cation is always critical, and in singles, increased focus on important points can make a big difference in a match.” 
The Irish as a team have not faced Yale in a dual match in recent years, but Frilling and Mathews played against a Bulldogs doubles team in the fall at an All ­American qualifying event. Additionally, the competition includes an interesting back story, as Yale’s assistant and volunteer coaches, Christian and Catrina Thompson, are not only 2007 Notre Dame graduates but also former All-Americans for the Irish. 
“It will be great to see them, and I’m sure Yale will be a fun team to compete against with them as their coaches,” Frilling said. 
to learn how to play together and grow comfortable as partners. 
“I think the main focus for this week is to take what we learned from last week’s matches and incorporate that into this week’s matches,” Frilling said. 
For a team that has consis­tently shown its ability to compete at the national level, this weekend brings an opportunity for the Irish to further showcase their tal­ents against new competi­tion. 
“We have focused on fine-tuning our games and remaining relaxed and confi­dent, ” Mathews said. “We have all worked very hard to get to this point — now it is all about concentration and execution.” 
The Irish host Yale Saturday at 1 p.m. in the Eck Tennis Pavilion, while Arkansas takes on Utah at 9 
a.m. On Sunday, the consola­tion match will take place at 9 a.m., with the champi ­onship taking place at 1 p.m. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 

Ruffer 
continued from page 16 
Ragone will likely see signifi­cant action next year as well. 
Ruffer, a kicker from Oakton, Va., walked onto the team in 2008 and was named the starter before the 2010 season. He set a Notre Dame record by converting on the first 23 field goal attempts of his career. The streak finally came to an end when he missed a 36-yard attempt in the Sun Bowl against Miami. 
Kelly confirmed last week that Ruffer would be award­ed a scholarship for next sea­son. 
Smith, a safety from Knoxville, Tenn., was per­haps Notre Dame ’s most improved player this season. He finished second on the team with 93 tackles. Despite having no interceptions com­ing into the season, Smith posted a team -high seven picks in 2010, including a game-clincher against USC and three in the Sun Bowl win against Miami. He was named a 2011 captain at Saturday’s awards banquet. 

SMC SWIMMING & DIVING 
Belles seek their first win against Hope,Alma 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
Though the Belles have struggled of late to gain their footing in a competitive MIAA conference, an oppor­tunity presents itself this weekend. 
Saint Mary’s (0-4) will take on Hope and Alma in the for­mer ’s home arena in Holland, Mich., on Saturday. Coming off a pair of difficult losses last weekend to con­ference powerhouses Calvin and Albion, the team has something to prove. 
Saint Mary’s closest bout thus far was a highly com­petitive 107-96 loss to Olivet, a team that last Saturday beat Alma by a mere three points. In the Belles search for a team win, this is not only their best chance, but also their last. 
As usual, the team will look to its young trio of sopho­mores Ellie Watson and Katie Griffin and junior Audrey Dalrymple to lead the way, especially coming off their strong individual perform­ances this past weekend. Watson garnered first-place finishes in the 500-yard and 1,000 freestyle, the latter time giving her sole posses­sion of the third-best time mark in Belles history in the event. 
Griffin also took two firsts on Friday, winning the 100 backstroke and 100 butterfly. Meanwhile, Dalrymple had three individual victories, earning first in the 100 breaststroke, 200 breast ­stroke and the 200 individual medley. 
After the upcoming meet, the team will look ahead to the all -important MIAA Championships from Feb. 17­
19. The MIAA champion is determined solely on the basis of the results of the title meet. 
The Belles look to propel themselves into the champi­onship lanes with a victory on Saturday as they take on Hope and Alma at 1 p.m. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 

Friday, January 28, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles meet Scots for rematch 


By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s looks to get another conference win under its belt when it visits Alma on Saturday at 3 p.m. 
The Belles (13-6, 6-4 MIAA) will try to defeat the Scots (1­17, 0-9) for the second time this season, having picked up a 70-63 win on Dec. 11. 
While Belles coach Jennifer Henley likes to keep her team focused on the defensive side of the game, the Belles’ offen­sive output has been a large factor in the team’s success over the past few weeks. Saint Mary’s has gone 4-3 during that stretch and has produced over 60 points in each of those contests. 
Junior Maggie Ronan was named MIAA Co-Player of the Week for games played through Jan. 22. Ronan gar­nered these honors largely due to her scoring output over the course of the past four games, in which she has aver­aged almost 22 points per game. Her latest offensive contribution for the Belles was a 31-point performance dur­ing Wednesday’s 76-66 win 
over Olivet, a new career-high. 
The Belles are also receiving consistent performances from junior forward Kelley Murphy, who nearly averages a double-double with a team-high 14.8 points per game and 9.3 rebounds per game. Junior guard Patsy Mahoney is also a key player on the offensive end, scoring at a 13.3 point per game clip. Saint Mary’s has also displayed stellar free-throw shooting of late, as the Belles are shooting 74 percent on the year. 
According to Henley, elimi­nating turnovers and playing strong defense will be the keys to Saturday’s game against Alma. Henley has emphasized the importance of protecting the ball on the offensive end and keeping opponents out of the lane on the defensive end. 
The Belles look to pick up their second win in a row and seventh in the conference, while the Scots will be search­ing for their first win since Nov. 20. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
TRACK & FIELD 
Indiana Relays host twenty teams 

GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 
Senior Justin Schneider participates in the pole vault event during the Blue and Gold Meet on Dec. 3, 
2010, at Notre Dame. Schneider fnished second in the event. 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
In one of their toughest tests of the season, the Irish will compete in the Indiana Relays this weekend at Indiana University in Bloomington, Ind. 
One of the featured events on the Irish schedule, Notre Dame will have to contend with some of the stiffest com­petition of the season. The contest features 20 teams and more than 1,200 entries. The Indiana Relays also marks the fourth road meet of the season for the Irish. 
Senior Justin Schneider leads the Irish this year as one of the top multi-event per­formers in the country. The Irish boast another top-ranked athlete in sophomore Rebecca Tracy, who ranks seventh in the country in the 800-meter run. She also ran the second-fastest mile in the country at the Notre Dame Invitational with a time of 4:42.14. 
Indiana, the host school, will present a number of formida­ble challenges for the Irish. The Hoosiers boast two-time pole vaulting national champi­on junior Derek Drouin. The Hoosiers are tough from top to bottom and provide a bal­anced attack. The Hoosier men are ranked seventh in the country and the women are ranked 16th. 
The races will begin Friday at 3 p.m. at the Harry Gladstein Fieldhouse and will continue Saturday at 9 a.m. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
their dominance as the teams also coming off a winning per-to beat in collegiate fencing. formance in New York, as the 
Duals 
Sophomore James Kaull and pair combined for a 27-4 per-continued from page 16 senior Jacob Osborne look to formance at NYU and a 23-7 
continue their winning ways, effort at St. John’s, leading successful weekend in the Big as the duo combined for a 23-the squad to an unblemished Apple following impressive 7 performance at NYU and a weekend. performances at the NYU 16-4 showing at St. John’s. The duals will take place all Invitational and the St. John’s The women’s team is led by day Saturday and Sunday. Dual. Between the men’s and two All-Americans in senior women’s teams, the Irish fin-Ewa Nelip and junior Contact Joe Wirth at ished 21-1, further asserting Courtney Hurley. The two are jwirth@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, January 28, 2011 
In a matchup of opposite forward Devereaux Peters still coming into her own, and pace in the conference stand-styles, Villanova’s deliberate and freshman forward now she’s really playing at ings when it takes the court 
McGraw 
continued from page 16 
lost a lot of games, but if you look, they were in it. With four minutes to go, they’re still in the game. They hang around because of the pace they play. They slow it down 
— they cut the game in half.” 
Riding a three-game losing streak, Villanova (8-11, 0-6 Big East) has struggled to put up points in conference play. While the Wildcats’ 43 points per game average is worst in the conference, they run a slow-paced offense in order to limit the number of posses­sions in the game and control the tempo. 
“You have to stay patient, which is definitely not my strong point,” McGraw said. “It’s a tough game to play because you feel like you don’t have as much control of the game. They’re going to slow it down at every oppor­tunity, and we like to play fast. We might be on defense for 30 seconds every posses­sion — have to be ready to play it.” 
pace clashes with a prolific offense in No. 11 Notre Dame (17-4, 6-1), which leads the Big East in scoring at 77 points per game. The Irish have eclipsed the 90-point mark eight different times this season and are undefeat­ed in each game. 
Despite the ability to score at will, McGraw said Villanova will keep the Irish from racking up a large point total due to the Wildcats’ style of play. 
“I think it’s going to be a low-scoring game,” McGraw said. “They’re going to walk the ball up — it’s going to feel like a half instead of a full game. They’re going to try and keep the score in the 50s. We’d like it to be in the 70s. It will be a battle of tempo.” 
Villanova’s primary threat is sophomore forward Laura Sweeney, the recipient of last season’s Big East Sixth Man Award. Sweeney leads the Wildcats in points (10.2 per game), rebounds (6.1 per game), steals (29) and blocks (25). 
But the emergence of junior 
MEN’S TENNIS 

IrishcompeteatITA qualifying match 

By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
The first major step toward another successful season for the Irish comes this weekend as the team travels to Champaign, Ill., in a meet that features Oklahoma, Denver and Illinois. 
Rewarding success, the NCAA grants the top 15 teams from the previous season the ability to host an event that qualifies a team for the Indoor Championships. Although Illinois finished No. 16 in the final ITA rankings last season, the squad was ranked within the top 15 for the majority of the season, and will be hosting the Indoor Championships this weekend. 
On Day 1, the Irish will face Oklahoma, and Illinois will take on Denver. The two winners will compete for a berth in the title match on Saturday. 
In order for Notre Dame to qualify for a berth at the event this weekend, it will need to take down some of the toughest com­petition in the country. Irish asso­ciate coach Ryan Sachire is aware of the quality of the teams, but says Notre Dame will be up for the challenge. 
“Oklahoma went to the Elite Eight last year and is a bona fide top-20 team,” Sachire said. “If we win, we play Illinois or Denver, two teams that made the tourna­ment last year. And as recently as 2007, Illinois was a finalist.” 
Only 16 teams reach the ITA Championships, which will be played from Feb. 18 to 20 this season. 
The Irish had the opportunity to choose the qualifying location where they would play, and ulti­mately decided on Illinois. 
“We picked this site because it is close to home and we have an opportunity to win two matches and move on against pretty strong competition,” Sachire said. 
The spring season is split into two parts, with the indoor season making up the first half. 
“The entire part of the season from when we started on Jan. 11 until spring break will be indoors,” Sachire said. 
Once the indoor part of the sea­son is completed, the focus shifts to conference tournaments and eventually the NCAA tournament. Notre Dame has won several Big East Championships since joining the conference and is no stranger to the NCAA tournament. 
The match against Oklahoma will be played Friday at 3 p.m. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
Natalie Achonwa has given McGraw much greater flexi­bility with her roster, allow­ing her to keep two posts in the game at all times. 
“Last year Devereaux was full strength,” McGraw said. “And then having Natalie Achonwa come off the bench 
— she ’s a great offensive 
rebounder.” Notre Dame looks to keep Saturday at 7 p.m. at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


Friday, January 28, 2011 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
TUESDAY VARIETY SHOW 
JUMBLE
LAURA McGINN 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Friday, January 28, 2011 page 16 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Creating separation 
PostsPetersandAchonwa will keep team in check 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
After completing a five ­game conference stretch that included victories over nationally ranked Georgetown and St. John’s, Notre Dame hits the road looking to extend its four-game win streak. Beginning with Saturday’s contest at Villanova, the Irish face four consecutive opponents with conference records of .500 or below. 
Despite the brief respite in the conference schedule, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said every team in the Big East is dangerous, including a Wildcats team that is still searching for its first confer­ence win. 
“Every game is close — the same thing last year,” McGraw said. “[The Wildcats] 
SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

Junior Devereaux Peters saves a ball from going out of bounds against St. John’s Sunday. The see MCGRAW/page 14 Irish won 69-36. 

FENCING 
Local rival team poses challenge 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will be in action against Cleveland State this weekend as a part of the Notre Dame Duals. The women will compete on Saturday, with the men slated to hit the strip on Sunday at the Joyce Center. 
“It is very nice to host our local rivals who are maybe not travelling so much like other top teams,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. “They will come here. They would like to win. They will be good partners for us.” 
Both the men’s and women’s teams are ranked No. 1 in the nation, and Janusz said his teams acknowledge that they bring out their opponent’s best shot in every dual. 
The Irish are coming off of a 
see DUALS/page 13 

ND MEN’S AND WOMEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 
NotreDame gearsup to raiseconfidenceasseason windsdown 
us a chance to do more events in a the stands cheering for you.” coming off a narrow loss to Week.
By MATTHEW ROBISON and 

shorter amount of time, so we’ll be The rematch with Northwestern Michigan State Saturday, 155.5-The Shamrock Invitational will
VICTORIA JACOBSEN 

tired, but if we race well every-gives the Irish an opportunity to 144.5. Notre Dame had six indi-be the final event before the Big
Sports Writers 

thing will come from there.” avenge this month’s earlier loss to vidual wins in the event, two of East Championships for the men, 
The home meet will provide a wel-the Wildcats. The Shamrock which can be attributed to the out-and the event should prove to be a 
The Irish look to build momen-come break from an exhausting Invitational will also be one of the standing swimming of sophomore launching point going into one of tum as the women’s team takes on traveling schedule. last home meets of the senior Bill Bass in the 200-yard fly and the biggest events of the year for Denver, Ohio State and “It’s much nicer to have home swimmers’ careers. the 400 individual medley. the Irish. Northwestern in the Shamrock meets because you are in your “A lot of parents are coming in, Freshman Frank Dyer won the The Shamrock Invitational runs Invitational, one of its final meets own pool and your schedule isn’t and it’s almost like a mini-parent’s 1,000-yard freestyle and was Friday and Saturday all day at the before the Big East disrupted as much,” senior weekend for us. So it’ll be great to named the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Championships. Samantha Maxwell said. “You can have our parents in the stands Counsilman-Hunsaker National 
“It’ll be nice to get some confi-keep to your routine and don’t and hopefully will create a better Collegiate Swimmer of the Week Contact Matthew Robison at dence going into the Big East,” have to worry about traveling. It’s atmosphere,” Casey said. Wednesday, shortly after he was mrobison@nd.edu and Victoria senior Katie Casey said. “It’ll give always awesome to have fans in On the men’s side, the Irish are named Big East Swimmer of the Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Bulldogs to challenge Irish 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
No. 4 Notre Dame returned from a training-filled winter break with a 5-2 victory over Illinois last weekend. Now, the Irish are ready for anoth­er challenge, as Arkansas, Utah and Yale come to cam­pus for the ITA National Team Indoor Championship qualifier. 
“Everyone played well [against Illinois], and I think it’s important for everyone to keep up that competitive energy this weekend,” junior Kristy Frilling said. 
After a strong performance in all facets of their game last weekend, the Irish will focus on detail for their 
see DETAIL/page 12 


FOOTBALL 
Athletes apply for fifth-year eligibility 
Observer Staff Report 
Six football players will apply for a fifth year next season, the University announced Thursday. 
Seniors Taylor Dever, Gary Gray, Andrew Nuss, Mike Ragone, David Ruffer and Harrison Smith will apply to Notre Dame ’s Faculty Board on Athletics to receive one more year of eligibility. 
Dever, an offensive tackle from Nevada City, Calif., started 10 games for the Irish this season and appeared in one more. 
Gray, a cornerback from Columbia, S.C., spent his freshman year recovering from shoulder surgery. This season, he started every game, notching one inter­ception and ranking third on the team with 66 tackles. 
Nuss, an offensive guard from Ashburn, Va., played in 12 games for Notre Dame this season, missing only the season-opener against Purdue. 
Ragone, a tight end from Cherry Hill, N.J., caught three passes for 32 yards, and was forced into a larger role when starter Kyle Rudolph was lost for the season with a hamstring injury. With Rudolph departing early for the NFL, 
see RUFFER/page 12 


Photo Illustration by Dan Jacobs and Blair Chemidlin 

page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Friday, January 28, 2011 
COMMENTARY 

Youth, experience lift Irish in CCHA 
There are plenty of reasons Notre Dame shouldn’t be here right now. 
The roster is disproportionately young, rivals Michigan and Miami (Ohio) are as strong as ever, and the Irish built up enough nega­tive energy last season to fill the soon-to-be­compl eted Compton Center. 

And, yet, 
Sam Werner 
here we are. No. 9 Notre Dame sits in 
Sports Writer 
second place in the CCHA, just two points behind the Wolverines. Though the Irish have been inconsistent at times, they have played well enough to put them­selves in position to make a strong playoff push during this season’s stretch run. 
“We just need to realize we’re in a great spot right now,” senior center Ben Ryan said. 
Before the season started, when filling out my CCHA media 
ballot, I found Notre Dame — the team I know the most about — the most difficult to place. Realistically, I thought the Irish could finish anywhere from first to ninth in the conference. 
There was no denying that the freshman class — in addition to the returning upperclassmen — was supremely talented, and that Jeff Jackson and his coaching staff were among the best in the country, but so much was unknown about the Irish going into the season. Would the fresh­men have trouble adjusting to the college game? Could the team expel the demons that plagued last year’s disappointing campaign? 
Even though there’s still plenty of hockey left to be played, those questions seem to be answered. Jackson won two national cham­pionships during his time at Lake Superior State and took the Irish to the title game three years ago, but turning this team into a con­tender may be his most impres­sive coaching feat to date. Obviously, there’s still a lot of hockey to be played, but it seems safe to say the Irish will be a fac­tor come playoff time. 
Part of the credit for that suc­cess also has to be given to the attitude these freshmen have developed. Other players may have been daunted by taking on so much responsibility for a team that is expected to compete on a national stage, but it seems like these guys just don’t know any better — and that’s a good thing. The only way Notre Dame would truly bounce back from last sea-son’s disappointment is if they could wipe the slate completely clean, and what better way to do that than with a bunch of guys who knew nothing about the team’s struggles a year ago? At the photo shoot for today’s Insider, the players were given just one instruction: skate from the goal line and do a hard stop on the blue line. The result was, well, you can see for yourself on the cover. These freshmen are clearly a group of guys just hav­ing fun and seemingly immune to the pressures of being a national-ly-ranked team. 


Of course, the freshmen would-n’t be able to do it themselves. The returning players, especially senior captains Joe Lavin, Ryan, Calle Ridderwall and Ryan Guentzel, are the perfect blend of talent and leadership that allow the team to be successful. Guentzel, in particular, has already scored more goals and notched more assists than in his first three years combined. After a tough 4-1 loss to Alaska two weeks ago, Jackson said this could be the point in the season where his team’s youth could start to show. It will be the responsibility of the upperclass­men to make sure that doesn’t happen. This year’s seniors played in the national champi­onship game their freshmen year, and they’ll have to commu­nicate to the younger players just what it takes to get back there. 
Both the upperclassmen and the freshmen will have to be on their game if the Irish expect to take down Miami this weekend. The RedHawks are talented from top to bottom and, unlike Notre Dame, have only two freshmen on their roster. 
Even though this weekend is only one series, and three points against Miami count just as much as three points against Bowling Green, a strong showing against the RedHawks would go a long way in building this team’s confidence and momentum for the stretch run. Friday night’s “White Out” atmosphere should be fantastic and will give the Irish — especially the freshmen 
— a preview for what to expect from playoff hockey. 
Regardless of how this week­end turns out, just the fact that this series matters is a testament to how far this team has come so quickly. Before the season, many questioned how long it would take this team to “arrive.” Well, the Irish are here, and don’t plan on going away any time soon. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at 
swerner@nd.edu 

Last Weekend By The Numbers 
Split series with Ohio State in Goals per game: 3.7 Columbus, losing 6-1 on Friday night Goals against per game: 2.8 and winning 4-1 on Saturday night Power play percentage: 16.1% 
Penalty kill percentage: 86.2% 
Shorthanded goals: 12Top Scorers Power play goals: 22 F T.J. Tynan (16 goals, 19 assists) Home record: 9-2-0 F Ryan Guentzel (6 goals, 23 assists) F Anders Lee (16 goals, 12 assists) F Ben Ryan (5 goals, 17 assists) Jeff Jackson says: F Calle Ridderwall (11 goals, 8 assists) “We have to be strong with our decision 
making and to me it’s still a lot about 
our defensemen getting back quicker forBetween The Pipes the puck and our forwards coming back Soph. Mike Johnson (2.54 GAA) to support them.” 
Last Weekend By The Numbers 
Split series with Michigan State in East Goals per game: 3.6 Lansing, losing 7-4 on Friday night and Goals against per game: 2.3 winning 4-0 on Saturday night Power play percentage: 22.8% 
Penalty kill percentage: 87.7% 
Shorthanded goals: 5Top Scorers Power play goals: 28 F Andy Miele (14 goals, 30 assists) Away record: 5-5-2 F Carter Camper (14 goals, 29 assists) F Reilly Smith (16 goals, 16 assists) F Pat Cannone (10 goals, 14 assists) Ben Ryan says: F Alden Hirschfeld  (10 goals, 7 assists) “It’s a huge weekend. I mean, they are 
just two hockey games and they could 
be against anyone else ... this weekendBetween The Pipes being able to send a message that we’re Jr. Connor Knapp (2.02 GAA) right there with them would be huge.” 

Friday, January 28, 2011 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Fresh faces 
National freshman standouts Tynan, Lee lead group of 12 freshmen spurring Irish turnaround 
ine this season without the late-gerous senior trio of Ryan, 
By CHRIS ALLEN 

minute addition. Ridderwall and Ryan Guentzel. 
Sports Writer 

“It’s unbelievable. To think that The group includes Lee, Mike he wasn’t even going to come in Voran, David Gerths, Jeff Costello Out with the old, in with the this year is incredible,” senior and Bryan Rust. The contribu­new. The adage may sound tired, center Ben Ryan said. “I think tion of the multitude of forwards but to the Notre Dame hockey the only thing that would even has grown throughout the sea-program it reads more like a hold him back at all is his size. I son, with all of the players seeing description of its 2010-11 sea-mean, that’s the only reason why time on some of the top lines. son. he wasn’t going to come out right Ridderwall said that despite their 
The old: the 43-year-old Joyce away. What he’s able to do at his inexperience at the college level, Center where the Irish play is size is incredible; it’s fun to the freshmen have brought phys-enjoying its final season of hock-watch. I’m happy he’s on our icality back to Notre Dame. ey. The new: nearly half of the team so that I don’t have to go “Obviously, with Lee, he’s a big team’s roster. up against him.” kid. Even though he’s a fresh-
After a disappointing 13-17-8 Tynan has overcome his small man, he’s bigger than a lot of the mark in the 2009-10 season, a stature by overwhelming most older guys. I think his physical sweeping youth movement of 12 CCHA foes with his incredibly play is helping around the net. freshmen has the No. 9 Irish skilled puck handling and keen It’s helping us score a lot of back among the country’s elite — vision on the ice. Shrewd play goals,” Ridderwall said. “Voran and back in the hunt for the has enabled him to compete in a and Gerths are both physical CCHA title. physical conference with oppo-guys. They can make plays, and 
“I think we expected them to nents that have half a foot on then turn around and hit some-produce but maybe not to this him in height in some instances. one. I think the physical play level,” Irish Tynan’s produc-those guys are bringing is huge. coach Jeff tivity was All of those freshman wings have Jackson said. r e w a r d e d offensive talent. I think it’s a “If I had to say recently when good mix between power for-that there’s a he was named wards and goal scorers.” surprise, it’s “They have a chance to to the Watch that the whole bring this program a List for the Getting defensive class had this Hobey Baker While the arsenal of forwards 
championship.” 
level of an Award — col-has been busy disrupting the impact on our lege hockey’s lives of opposing defenses, a team.” Jeff Jackson highest individ-fresh infusion of talent on the Arguably the ual honor — as Irish defense has brought intimi-
Irish coach 
most notable of Notre Dame’s dation to the back line after the the newcomers representative. squad lost a number of talented wasn’t even “I’ve never defensemen, including Brett expected to suit seen anything Blatchford, Ian Cole and Kyle up for the Irish like that. T.J.’s Lawson. Leading the crop has this season. In the lead-up to the having an unbelievable year. I been the towering 6-foot-4 2010-11 season, both Jarred don’t think anyone was expect-Pennsylvania product Stephen Tinordi and Kyle Palmieri were ing it, really. It’s been really fun Johns. Johns’ emergence as the drafted in the NHL Draft and to watch,” senior wing Calle “enforcer” on the Notre Dame headed off to the pro ranks. The Ridderwall said. “He’s a play-back line is evidenced by his 78 vacated roster spots of the two maker —and a playmaker that penalty minutes — more than players opened up a place for knows how to score goals. That’s double the second-highest total. signee T.J. Tynan, an immensely rare to find. Usually guys are The feisty freshman’s punishing talented but undersized forward. either playmakers or goal-scor-hits have no doubt made an “Their skill takes care of itself in their freshman season with Tynan — who is listed at 5-foot-ers. In T.J., you have both of impact in opposing training when they’re working hard. It’s each player contributing on the 8-inches and 156 pounds — was them. He just sees plays very rooms so far this campaign, as just like anybody else. All the team. Ridderwall said he expected to spend a year or well. He’s really 
good mentally. more than the fair share of freshmen are really competing believed early success was more more in junior hockey to add When he’s in the hockey game, opposing forwards have been hard, all 12 of them. We really of a positive development in some size to compete in the col-he can see how things will devel-leveled by Johns. Senior defense-appreciate that. Johns and Taker building confidence than a dan­lege game. The circumstances op.” man and captain Joe Lavin said are two big kids with big frames gerous pitfall. changed, and all Tynan has done Sharing the team lead in goals that Johns, along with fellow and a lot of skill, so that’s good “I think as a freshman it helps since arriving on campus is with Tynan is yet another fresh-freshman defensemen Shayne for us.” to have early success. A lot of become the most productive man, wing Anders Lee. Lee has Taker, Kevin Lind and Jared Rounding out the plethora of our freshman got off to a good player on the Irish squad, lead-led the Notre Dame scoring Beers, have brought intensity Irish freshmen are two goal-start, and building momentum ing the team with 35 points and attack as part of a group of and hard work to his unit. tenders, Steven Summerhays early helps their confidence not 16 goals. The freshman’s team-freshman forwards that have “They work hard. They’re and Joe Rogers. Though sopho-only on the ice, but also away mates said they could not imag-supplemented the already-dan-hardworking guys,” Lavin said. more Mike Johnson has seen the from the ice,” he said. 

lion’s share of the time in goal “Sometimes people struggle during the season, both players coming to college when it comes have elevated their game, with to hockey and when it comes to Summerhays seeing the occa-all the stuff on the side.” sional start. The freshman from As the team heads into the Alaska has started five games to final stretch of the regular sea-the tune of a 3.45 goals against son, one thing is clear regardless average. Johnson said that his of the outcome of games against relationship with his freshman Miami, Bowling Green, Ferris understudies has helped the State and Western Michigan — goaltending unit improve as a this class of freshmen is the per-whole. fect bridge between two eras of 
“I definitely think I look at Irish hockey. While the program myself as a leader, but I think we honors the past greats of the have a very close relationship, Joyce Center over the coming the three of us,” Johnson said. “I weekends, this group of 12 play-think we’re more friends than I ers stands as a testament to the would say that I’m a leader. And future that lies a few hundred I think that in practices, we all feet south in the new Compton work hard, so that really pushes Family Center. The speed of us to get better. They’re pushing Tynan, the power of Lee and the me, I’m pushing them, so it’s a physicality of Johns and Taker really good relationship.” have announced to the rest of 
college hockey that after a brief Feet on the ground slip-up, the Irish are back. All 
With the freshmen off to such a one needs to do is listen to Jeff good start and the team endur-Jackson to determine the ceiling ing a level of success they for this class. haven’t experienced in nearly “They have a chance to bring two years, the team leaders have this program a championship,” worked to ensure that the group he said. “I think that if they stay adjusts well to the success and together they have a chance to doesn’t fall into complacency. win a national championship at The trio of Ridderwall, Ryan and some point.” Guentzel is no stranger to early success, as Notre Dame reached Contact Chris Allen at the national championship game callen10@nd.edu 



page 4 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Friday, January 28, 2011 
Preparation gives way to excitement for series 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
With No. 11 Miami (Ohio) com­ing to the Joyce Center for a piv­otal series near the end of the reg­ular season, there seems to be some disagreement over how important this weekend actually is. 
Irish senior captain Joe Lavin is hoping his squad takes a busi­nesslike approach. 
“I think it’s just like another weekend,” he said. 
Senior center Ben Ryan, howev­er, couldn’t hide his excitement. 
“It’s a huge weekend,” he said. “I mean, they are just two hockey games and they could be against anyone else, but the fact that that’s a team that we’re going to have to go through at the end of the sea­son … I think this weekend, being able to send a message that we’re right there with them, would be huge.” 
For his part, Irish coach Jeff Jackson struck a middle ground. 
“Hey, it’s crunch time in the sea­son, but it’s no different than how it’s going to be two weeks from now against Bowling Green,” he said. “There’s six points on the table. It’s about playoff standings. [It’s] going to be no different than last Saturday’s game against Ohio State in regards to the three points on the line.” 
No. 9 Notre Dame (16-9-3, 13-6­1-1 CCHA) faced the RedHawks (14-9-3, 11-7-2-1) in Oxford dur­ing early December and split the series, winning the first game 5-4 before dropping a 5-2 decision the next night. In each of those games, the Irish were unable to keep up with their fast-starting opponents in the first period, falling behind 2­0 in the early parts of the game before mounting a comeback. Part of the slow start could be attrib­uted to settling into the game before a hostile crowd in Miami’s Goggin Ice Center. 
This week, however, Lavin felt a different vibe in his locker room; he saw looseness instead of the tension that can come before a marquee series. 
“We just had a different culture this week — we’ve kept things pretty light but we’re working hard,” he said. “We’re just search­ing for that enthusiasm, and I think we found it this week. We’re excited for the weekend.” 
The week has also been filled with preparation, not for the RedHawks attack, but on the weaker areas of Notre Dame’s game. 
“We’ve done a lot of preparation [and] we’ve just been focusing on what we need to do,” Lavin said. “If we can play good defense, it’ll turn into good offense and we’ll be set.” 
The Irish have been focusing especially on transitioning from the defensive zone to the attack without turning the puck over. 
“The losses that we’ve had … they pressured us and we didn’t handle the pressure well coming out of our zone making passes, making smart plays,” Ryan said. “Against Miami, if you turn the puck over, they’ve got so many tal­ented forwards that it’s going to be in the back of the net.” 
On the offensive end, the Irish will be buoyed by the probable return of senior forward Calle Ridderwall this weekend. The team’s third-highest goalscorer on the season, Ridderwall has missed the past three series with a lower body injury. Though his time will be limited, Ridderwall will provide a measure of experience on the offensive end. 
“It’s likely [Ridderwall] will play this weekend,” Jackson said. “I’ve got to probably temper how much I play or what situations I play him, because he’s been out of the lineup for three weeks.” 
Ridderwall is excited to return to the ice at such an important moment in the season. 
“It’s going to be fun,” he said. “Every time you play Miami it’s a very tough game, very high-speed game. There’s a lot of talent on the ice on both sides, so I think those are very exciting games.” 
Ridderwall isn’t the only Notre Dame player to be excited for the game. With a perennial power­house in the visitors’ locker room, getting excited to play won’t be an issue. 
“It’s not a matter of getting up for the game,” Lavin said. “Everybody gets pretty excited for the game.” 
Even the normally stoic Jackson is looking forward to the series — though with typical understate­ment. 
“We’re playing a team that’s right behind us in the standings,” he said. “The fact that it’s Miami maybe gets the juices going a little bit more because they’re such a high quality team.” 
With a young team that is espe­cially inconsistent on the road, the friendly confines of the Joyce Center could make the difference in a tight game. “Sometimes when the season gets long and we’re on the road, espe­cially with such a young team, we can get away from what made us successful,” Lavin said. “We really respect everybody for coming to watch us. The band’s great, the fans are great, and we’re just look­ing forward to coming back home. 

We just need to make sure we work hard for them because they’re paying to come watch us play.” 
Notre Dame takes on the RedHawks at 7:35 p.m. Friday night in a game televised by CBS College Sports nationwide. Saturday night, the teams meet again at 5:05 p.m. for a matchup televised by FSN Detroit as part of Hockey Day in Michigan. Both games are in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


Johnson’s strong play propels Irish performance 
ed playing. And then we wanted Johnson’s constant effort each to play, because all of our friends night has been a main factor in did, and it just took off.” allowing the Irish to be in the 
Ultimately, Johnson developed thick of the CCHA race. his skills to the point of being “You can have 25 guys playing recruited to play college hockey. well, and if the goalie isn’t play-And as comfortable as he felt in ing well, you’re not going to win,” the rink, he felt just as much so senior left wing Calle Ridderwall on Notre Dame’s campus. said. “I think he’s been building 
“When I came on my visit, I felt momentum for the whole team like I was at home here. I could and saving us when we might be feel it,” Johnson said. “And obvi-struggling.” ously, the academics help and it’s Johnson’s play is particularly got a great hockey program. The noticeable to the other players overall combination was unbeat-who also are in charge of keep-able.” ing the puck out of the net—the 
Upon arriving at Notre Dame, defensemen. Johnson began last year backing “It’s great when defensemen on up former Irish netminder Brad a team can take confidence in Phillips, before moving into the [their] goalie,” senior defense-starting slot in the middle of the man and captain Joe Lavin said. season. Though Johnson’s stats “He’s a great goalie, one of the (.910 save percentage, 2.60 best in the league — one of the goals-against average) were good best in the country.” enough to earn him a spot on the But perhaps even more impor-CCHA All-Rookie team, his play tant than the players, Johnson was inconsistent. In 28 starts, has gained the confidence of the Johnson had two shutouts, and coaching staff. allowed only one goal six times. “He’s certainly ahead of where But the Irish gave up four or he was last year,” Irish coach Jeff more goals nine times when Jackson said. “I think that he’s Johnson was in net, and he was been outstanding for us at times, removed from games four times and the nights even when he’s for poor play. In the season’s final not outstanding, he’s usually still 

high school. Rather, the sopho-helped make the transition to col-game, an 8-2 defeat against Ohio good.” 
By SAM GANS 

more chose to follow the junior lege a lot easier. It also taught me State in the CCHA playoffs, Though Johnson has reduced 
Sports Writer 

hockey route, playing a total of a lot about living on my own.” Johnson gave up 4 goals on 9 his number of poor games, con-two seasons for both the St. Louis Johnson learned how to skate shots before being replaced. sistency’s an area he is still focus-
Most Notre Dame students Bandits, of the North American around the time he could walk. Johnson’s numbers this year ing on, including this weekend born in February 1989 are cur-Hockey League, and the United Though he didn’t play organized (.906 save percentage, 2.54 against Miami. rently either interviewing for a States Hockey League’s Cedar hockey until 3rd grade and didn’t goals-against) are similar to last “Once the playoffs come job after graduation or determin-Rapids RoughRiders. The experi-move between the pipes until a year. However, the consistency of around, you’re going to need to ing their grad school plans. ence helped Johnson to focus year later, Johnson always felt his play has increased. Although win a lot of games in a row,” 
Irish goaltender Mike Johnson, fully on hockey, as well as adjust natural on the ice alongside his he has no shutouts this season, Johnson said. “Really bringing it however, is not even halfway to life away from home. younger brother, Eric, who will he has allowed four or more on Friday night and then coming through his time at the universi-“I think that was a really join the Irish squad as a fresh-goals only six times in 24 games, back on Saturday with another ty. important step for my develop-man in the fall. and he has finished every game strong performance [is impor-
A native of Verona, Wisc., ment, hockey-wise,” Johnson “[Eric and I] would always he’s started but one. He has also tant].” Johnson — who turns 22 next said. “The level of competition [in skate together on ponds,” picked up his play in conference, Tuesday — did not enroll in col-the USHL] is unbeatable in Johnson said. “That’s when we with a 2.34 goals-against average Contact Sam Gans at lege directly after completing America for junior hockey. And it were really little, before we start-in CCHA games. sgans@nd.edu 





