the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Student government leaders pass the torch 

Soler, Bell Rocheleau take 
McCormick, 

reflect on term’s control of office 
achievements 

By JOHN CAMERON 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer News Writer 
Incoming student body presi-

Today marks the end of a stu­dent Pat McCormick and vice 
dent government era as outgo-president Brett Rocheleau wasted 
ing student body president no time implementing their cam-
Catherine Soler and vice presi­paign promises, starting with a 
dent Andrew Bell turn over reinstatement ofthe much-missed 
their office to incoming student quarter dogs on the first day of 
body president Pat McCormick theiryearlongtenure. 
and vice president Brett The minute their term began at 
Rocheleau. midnight, McCormick and 
Soler and Bell’s term was Rocheleau brought back the 
characterized by an emphasis beloved quarter dogs to the 
on building community rela-Huddle in the LaFortune Student 
tions and reforming aspects of Center. Rocheleau saidthis imme­
student life like pep rallies, stu-
SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 

Incoming student body vice president Brett Rocheleau (left) and president Pat McCormick (right). see PAT/page 4 Rocheleau and McCormick take offce today and promise to improve the University’s sustainability program. see SOLER/page 6 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 


Gans, Zupancic discuss plans for term at SGA helm 
ing their term: organization. “Now, we want to help get the Rachael Chesley and incoming edged the impact the last 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 

Saint Mary’s student govern-board acclimated to their new vice president Laura Smith, board made on student life at 
Saint Mary’s Editor 

ment changes hands today positions.” Zupancic said. Saint Mary’s, and said they and Gans and Zupancic are Gans and Zupancic have Both Gans and Zupancic want to continue some of the 
Student body president hitting the ground running. already met with vice presi-also attended the community former board’s endeavors. Nicole Gans and vice presi-“We just picked the incom-dent of student affairs Karen summit along with Notre “Rachael and Laura did a dent Jacqualyn Zupancic are ing board after reviewing Johnson and have spoken Dame’s student government great job keeping the energy first and foremost focused on applications and conducting with their predecessors, out-representatives March 25. accomplishing one thing dur-interviews,” Zupancic said. going student body president Gans and Zupancic acknowl-see TURNOVER/page 5 



Ex-marinediscusses ‘Don’task,don’ttell’ 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Gay rights activist and retired Staff Sgt. Eric Alva of the U.S. Marine Corps closed the Saint Mary’s College Student Diversity Board’s sixth annual Diverse Student Leadership Conference yesterday by urging his Little Theater audience to contribute to the fight for anti-discrimina­tion. 
Alva’s speech, titled, “Ending ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,’” high­lighted the history of the legisla­tion since its signing in 1993 and his experience of serving under the legislation during Operation IraqiFreedom. 
“‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ was the only law in this country that forced men and women to go to work and lie about who they are,” Alva said. 
At a time when gay military applicants were being turned away for being honest about their sexual orientation and identity on enrollmentforms, the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” (DADT) policy required that questions about applicants’ previous sexu­al relations with members of the same sex be stripped from mili­tary applications. 
This change could have empowered gay citizens to apply for military service, butAlva said it was not the only stipulation of the agreement. While the mili­
see ALVA/page 5 


Students to give back to South Bend 
By EMMA RUSS 
News Writer 

Hundreds of Notre Dame students will participate in dozens of service projects throughout the South Bend community as part of the third annual CommUniversity Day Saturday, student coordinator Claire Sokas said. 
Sokas said the event, spon­sored by student government and the Center for Social Concerns (CSC), encourages students to “burst the Notre Dame bubble” by becoming active members of the commu­nity through service. 
“The event’s goal is not just to go out into the community and perform service, but also to recognize that we, as stu­dents, are a part of the com­munity,” student coordinator Jay Kenney said. 
Around 700 students are expected to participate in the event, matching last year’s participant total, Sokas said. She said the event has grown in the past two years in terms 


of the amount of service proj­ects available to students. Kenney and Sokas said they are excited that an increasing 
see DAY/page 5 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC CommUniversity Day page 3  Viewpoint page 8  Arabic Culture Night page 10  Men’s lacrosse still undefeated page 20 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Friday, April 1, 2011 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Kristen Durbin Allan Joseph Mel Flanagan Megan Finneran Marisa Iati Cory Bernard 

Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Courtney Cox 
Photo Viewpoint 
Sarah O’Connor Meghan Thomassen 
CORRECTIONS 

The March 30 article “Social Media Mash-Up” list­ed Rebecca Black as 18 years old. She is actually 13. The March 29 article “Albion sweeps doubles pair­ings to beat Saint Mary’s” was incorrect. The Belles won one doubles match. The Observer regrets these 
errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT IS T E MOST-PLAYED SONG ON YOUR IPOD T IS WEEK? 








Chris Toups  Matthew Enzweiler  Kevin Doherty  Erik VanEperen  Greg Rustico  Kelly O’Brien  
junior  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  senior  senior  
Duncan  Dillon  Keough  Keough  Keough  Welsh Family  
“‘No Sleep’ –  “‘This Country’  “‘Semi­ “‘Where the  “‘Friday’ –  “‘Dog Days Are  
Wiz Khalifa.”  – Brad Paisley.”  Charmed Life’ –  Green Grass  Rebecca Black.”  Over’ – Florence  
Third Eye  Grows’ – Tim  and the  
Blind.”  McGraw.”  Machine.”  


THOMAS LA/The Observer Freshman Laura Winter pitches during the softball game against Purdue Thursday evening. Notre Dame won 7-5, bringing its record to 18-7. 
OFFBEAT 

Man fakes credentials to get massage 
NEWPORT BEACH, Calif. — A California man is charged with demand­ing a rubdown and $200 while pretending to be a massage parlor inspector. 
Orange County prosecu­tors charged Edward Justin LaPorte with felony burglary and misde­meanor counts of imper­sonating a peace officer and firearm violations. The 47-year-old faces arraignment Friday in Newport Beach. 
Investigators say LaPorte is a former police officer from Illinois. They say he was wearing a badge when he entered the Golden Spa massage parlor in Lake Forest on Jan. 31 and told the man­ager he was investigating a complaint. 
Prosecutors say he then complained of back pain, and a masseuse gave him a back rub before LaPorte asked for a frontal mas­sage, which was refused. 
No phone listing could be found for LaPorte and court records don’t list an attorney for him. 
Jersey bakery spews flour on surroundings 
ENGLEWOOD, N.J. — People might have thought they were part of a recipe when a northern New Jersey bakery blew its top and shot a cloud of flour over cars and build­ings. 
Acting Englewood Fire Chief Gerald Marion says a pipe became loose at the top of the La Esperanza Bakery silo as flour was being pumped into the building on Tuesday. 
Some people thought there was an explosion as flour filled the air and coated several adjacent buildings. 
A spokesman for the bakery told The Record newspaper it lost probably less than 10 bags of flour from the 20,000 pounds that were being delivered. 
The pipe has been resealed. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight saturday sunday 

HIGH 48 HIGH 41 HIGH 50 HIGH 48 LOW 33 LOW 33 LOW 32 LOW 40 
Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
Dave Stangis, Vice President of CSR and Sustainability for the Campbell Soup Company will speak at 10:40 a.m. today in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. The event is the sixth installment in the Ten Years Hence Lecture Series.Theeventisfree. 
Habitat for Humanity ND pres­ents Jail ‘N Bail today from 12 
p.m. to 4 p.m. Students can sign up to have a friend “arrested” by NDSP officers anywhere on cam­pus and brought to a makeshift jail on South Quad. The cost is $10 atthetimeofbailout.Signup athabitat.nd.edu 
Women’s Lacrosse will take on Rutgerstodayat7 p.m. inArlotta Stadium. Tickets are free for stu­dents. 
La Alianza will present “Latin Expressions: Origenes” today at 7 p.m. at the Century Center at 120 S. Saint Joseph St., South Bend. Shuttles will be provided from Library Circle before and after the show. “Latin Expressions:Origenes” is ashow­case of Latin dance, music and poetry and will feature perform­ances by the First Class Steppers, Project Fresh and TroopND. Tickets are $10 at the LaFortune box office and$12 at the door. 
Saint Mary’s College students will host a walk to benefit South Bend’s hungry at 2 p.m. Sunday beginning at the Student Center at Saint Mary’s. Individual walk­ers should bring 3 cans of food for donation or $3.Teams should bring 3 cans of food per walker or $5. To register and for more information, visit http://www3.saintmarys.edu/pr­yes-we-can-2011. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


monday tuesday 


Friday, April 1, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC joins with ND in celebrating community 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
News Writer 
This year’s third annual CommUniversity Day of service marks the first time Saint Mary’s students will be involved in the event, community com­missioner Katie Cuda said. 
Cuda said Claire Sokas, a CommUniversity Day coordina­tor at Notre Dame, reached out to her to get Saint Mary’s involved in the day’s service projects. Cuda and Sokas have cooperated with their respective student bodies to increase stu­dent involvement in CommUniversityDay. 
“By including Saint Mary’s in CommUniversity Day, I feel that the two schools will be able to reach more and more of the South Bend community now and in the future,” Cuda said. “Having students mingle with community members will con­tinue to make the South Bend area a toppriority for communi­ty service projects.” 
Cuda said the goal of CommUniversity Day is to unite students from both Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame in assisting the surrounding South Bend com­munity. Service projects like painting fire hydrants, collecting food donations and placing notices on storm drains provide students with a great opportuni­ty for students to get involved and give back to the community, she said. 
But, Cuda said, the most important aspect of CommUniversity Day is strengthening the connection between Saint Mary’s, Notre Dame and the surrounding SouthBend community. 
“It is too often that students here forget they are part of the greater South Bend community, a community that, — like most others — needs help at times,” Cuda said. “CommUniversity Day is a great way to get a large group of students doing commu­nity service, and covering a larger area rather than only a few students at atime.” 
Many CommUniversity activi­ties will take place on Notre Dame’s campus. Cuda hopes to incorporate service projects at Saint Mary’s in the future. From now on, the community com­missioners at Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame will collaborate to make a joint CommUniversity Day areality, Cuda said. 
Students participating in CommUniversity Day service projects should visit communi­versityday.nd.edu for additional information about individual projects. Transportation will be provided between the Notre Dame campus and the project sites. The day’s events will take place from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. and will end with a picnic for partic­ipants and community members at the Robinson Community LearningCenter. 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Foundationsharessolarenergy 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 

Notre Dame combined its social justice and sustainabili­ty missions into one initiative when it decided to team up with the Let’s Share the Sun Foundation to install solar panels in Haiti. 
To bring the cause closer to home and raise funds for the Foundation, the International Development branch of the Notre Dame Entrepreneurship Society will sponsor a dance Saturday. 
The Foundation, launched by 1985 Notre Dame gradu­ates Bill and Nancy Jordan, works with other organiza­tions to provide solar energy solutions to poor countries around the world. 
“We invite people to join together to share their diverse talents, resources and reali­ties and help capture the sun’s energy and rays that improve the lives of people in poor communities,” Bill Jordan said. “It also enhances the lives of all those who choose to participate in the efforts.” 
After an earthquake rav­aged the island nation in January 2010, the Foundation supplemented the University’s efforts to rebuild the area by donating four solar panels, installed by a Haitian electri­cian, to the building that houses Notre Dame’s Haiti Program in Leogane, Bill Jordan said. 
Solar energy is a vital part of the Haiti Program’s master planning effort for the region, he said. 
Jordan said his foundation is blessed to have good partner­ships to work with, especially the Foundation’s connection with the University. 
“Notre Dame has been instrumental in facilitating the growth of the Foundation,” Jordan said. “There has also been a generous spirit from the Notre Dame Haiti Program.” 
Sophomore Cristina Couri organized Saturday’s fundraising event, and said she wanted to raise aware­ness for Let’s Share the Sun because of its noble efforts in solar energy. 
“Let’s Share the Sun is a perfect example of an organi­zation that wasn’t afraid to do something great no matter how difficult it was, and was­n’t afraid to say ‘I can do something good with the skills I’ve been given,’” Couri said. 
Couri said the Let’s Share the Sun Foundation is an especially successful charity because it provides the mem­bers of poor communities with the ability to enact change themselves. 
“It’s making a difference in third world countries, not by throwing money at them, but by giving them the tools to help themselves,” Couri said. “They’re not a charity that puts money into something they don’t understand, but they use their money and time and skills in the most effective way.” 

Tony Pohlen, assistant direc­tor for administrative and academic affairs for the Ford Family Program in Human Development Studies and Solidarity, helped coordinate both the dance and the lec­ture. He said the Let’s Share the Sun Foundation strikes the ideal balance of making a liv­ing and making a difference. 
“[Bill Jordan] has a passion for trying to come up with solutions using the kinds of technology he knows from his for-profit work … for the ben­efit of people living in places like Haiti,” Pohlen said. 
Mr. Jordan said he could not see running his business any other way. 
“If [our for-profit work] was disconnected from the 1.7 bil­lion people without access to electricity living in the poorest conditions in the world, I don’t think our lives would be as fulfilled,” Bill Jordan said. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jordan will be the keynote speakers at the “Making a Living Making a Difference” lecture Tuesday, April 5 at 6:30 pm in Geddes Hall. The Let’s Share the Sun Foundation is associated with Jordan Energy & Food Enterprises, LLC, Bill Jordan’s for-profit solar energy compa­ny. 
The benefit dance will be held Saturday in the LaFortune ballroom from 10 
p.m. to 1 a.m. Tickets are $5. 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 1, 2011 
Hellmannnamedleader inenvironmentalscience 

By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame added another achievement to its sustainability list when Jessica Hellmann, pro­fessor of biological sciences, was named a 2011 Leopold LeadershipFellowlastmonth. 
Based out of Stanford University’s Woods Institute for the Environment, the Aldo Leopold Leadership Program rec­ognizes twenty prominent envi­ronmental scientists as fellows each year with the support of the David and Lucile Packard Foundation. 
Hellmann, who was instrumen­tal in the creation of the University’s new Environmental Change Initiative (ECI), was informed of her recognition as a fellow in December after applying for the program early last year. She said the Leopold fellowship will help the non-scientific com­munityunderstandherresearch. 
“In my PhD studies and time as a professor, I learned how to col­lect data, teach, write scientific papers and mentor students, but no one taught me how to talkto a member of Congress,” she said. “This program is a neat opportu­nitytogetspecializedtrainingthat Iwouldn’tnormallygetasascien­tist.” 
The fellows attend two week-long intensive training sessions that aim to improve their leader­ship and communication skills by participating in mock Congressional hearings, speaking with actual non-governmental organizations and policymakers and interacting with the media, Hellmannsaid. 
“The program is much more than an award, it’s atrainingpro­gram,” Hellmann said. “Once you’re identified as a leader who is working on leading research, you need help articulating and explainingyourworktothepublic andtopolicymakers. 
“There’s a large gap between the public understanding of sci­ence and what science is figuring out,” she said. “We need the pub­lic to appreciate science, but sci­entists also need to reach out to them to explain what we do because it can be useful in creat­ingpolicychanges.” 
Hellmann said her recognition further establishes Notre Dame as both a prominent research uni­versity and a leader in environ­mentalscienceandsustainability. 
“Oneofourgrowingmissionsas an institution, especially in the College of Science, is to take sci­ence and make the work we do relevanttosociety,”shesaid. 
Hellmann and her colleague, biological sciences Professor David Lodge, are Notre Dame’s Leopold fellows, and they both have active roles in the newly minted ECI. One of the ECI’s pri­mary goals is to translate science to the public in order to affect change in sustainability policies, Hellmannsaid. 
“We want to influence the pub­lic to make better, science­informeddecisionsandtomanage natural resources more intelli­gently and efficiently,” Hellmann said. “We’ll be able to use the information from this leadership program to look at sustainability from an interdisciplinary perspec­tive.” 
The new Sustainability minor, which will be offered to students beginning in fall2011, arose from an ECI working group headed by Hellmann. She said her Leopold fellowshipexperiencewouldaffect her role in educating students aboutsustainability. 
“Sustainability is all about find­ing the appropriate balance of resource use that defines the qualityoflifeandallowsustopre­serve nature for future genera­tions,” she said. “Some policies sound great scientifically, but it’s important to understand how those ideas could work socially as well.” 
Hellmann said she hopes the program will help publicize her research examining the impact of climate change on endangered and culturally and economically important species, especially but­terflies, and how these species adapttoenvironmentalchanges. 
“One of the cornerstones of my researchisdiscovering adaptation strategies for species to deal with the negative effects of environ­mental changes,” Hellmann said. “We have to figure out what the effects of these changes are, where they are the strongest, which species will adapt well to change and which ones will have ahardtime.” 
Examiningthe effects of climate change and increased urbaniza­tion on specific ecosystems can allow scientists to develop meth­ods for helping important species survive and slowing the move­ment of invasive species, Hellmann said. This field of research can have major implica­tions for the future of the planet andthespeciesthatinhabitit. 
“Environmental issues, includ­ing climate change, represent some ofthe biggest challenges the young adult generation will face because the world is changing in profound and rapid ways,” Hellmannsaid. 
Hellmann will expand on her current research when she spends the 2011-2012 academic year on sabbatical at the Notre Dame Institute for Advanced Study to work on a book about helping nature deal with climate change. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
Pat 
continued from page 1 

diate change demonstrates the tangible ways student govern­mentcanassiststudents. 
“They[thequarterdogs]willbe stayingfor good now,” Rocheleau said. 
Although the return of quarter dogs marks a significant accom­plishment, McCormick and Rocheleau hope to achieve much loftier goals for the remainder of theschoolyear. 
The pair has already met with University’s present cooperation with the West Side Food Security Council,acoalitionof16commu­nity leaders and six Notre Dame students. 
So far, the council has worked to improve food availability on the west side of South Bend, one ofthemostunderprivilegedareas of the community. However, McCormick said the coalition, especially the community lead­ers, wouldliketoexpanditintoa community-wideeffort. 
Projects like the coalition will build upon the community rela­tionships established during the term of outgoing student body 

University President Fr. John Jenkins “We’re hoping to have 
and Director of a plan by the start of
Sustainability 

next fall for the
Heather Christophersen University and the 
to expand on community to reduce and improve the 
its carbon emissions,
University’s cur­rent sustainabili-as well as a number 
tystrategy. of other aspects of“We’re hoping 
greening ND.” 
tohaveaplanby the start of next fall for the Pat McCormick 
University and student body president the community to reduce its car-
president Catherine Soler and vice presi­dent Andrew Bell, McCormick said. 
“We’re incredi­bly grateful to them [Soler and Bell],” he said. “It’s a great start to what we hope willbeacontinu­ing partnership with students and community members.” 
In addition, McCormick and also ties in with long-term goals for McCormick and Rocheleau’s term. Rocheleau said he and McCormick are looking forward to planning a Playing for Peace benefitconcertforasocialjustice causeyettobedetermined. 

McCormick hopes to cooperate with the Student Union Board (SUB) on this project as a means of unifying SUB and student gov­ernment into one cohesive stu­dentunion. 
But the overall objective of his presidency, McCormick said, will be to redefine the general per­ception of student government at NotreDame. 
“The goal is to try to see whether we can convince stu­dents that it might be worth re­imaginingthe limits ofthe gener­ally cynical estimates of the dif­ference students can make through studentgovernment,” he said. 
McCormick said he would like to see the University fulfill President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh’s vision of Notre Dame as both a crossroads and a light­house. 
“It should be a crossroads, a place where all the ideas of the worldcanintersectandbedebat­edanddiscussed,butalsoalight­house, a place that can stand apartandserveastheconscience for higher education in the U.S.,”McCormicksaid. 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 


bon emissions, as well as anum­ber of other aspects of greening ND,”McCormicksaid. 
Insteadofkeepingthe proposal solely between student govern­ment and the administration, McCormick said he and Rocheleau have begun working with leaders of campus environ­mental clubs to integrate student voicesintomajordecisions. 
“Student government doesn’t just want to speak for you, stu­dentgovernment wants to ampli­fy your voice,” McCormick said. “We’ve been trying to work with these different groups to really fight for a student place at the tableinthesedecisions.” 
McCormickandRocheleau also plan to expand on the Rocheleau will hold another PlayingforPeace game when the men’s lacrosse team takes on Georgetown in Arlotta Stadium April 10. McCormick said they want to continue to draw atten­tion to the renewed violence in Sudan, especially in the Abyei regionofthecountry. 
“We’re trying to say that stu­dent government has really launched this unprecedented effort of trying to amplify student voices on a national level as well,”hesaid.“Wehavemetwith people high up, we’ve taken stu­dent voices there before and we want to continue to say ND stu­dents are doing everything they cantospotlightSudan.” 
The Playing for Peace initiative 


Friday, April 1, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Alva 
continued from page 1 
tary promised not to ask, gay soldiers had to promise they would not speak about their sexual orientation while serving in the military. If they did so, they could be discharged, Alva said. 
But Alva said he could not come to terms with the contra­diction that was occurring in his dailylife. 
As the first soldier to be injured and receive the Purple Heart in Operation Iraqi Freedom, Alva put his life on the line to fight for the free­doms ofthe American people. 
“[I had] rights being stripped of me, even though I was fight­ing for rights,” Alva said. “As a country that promotes democ­racy … we don’t give those freedoms to everyone ... I was a man who was fighting for my country. It was for every single individual, not just the select few.” 
Those citizens outside of the “select few” were the ones being affectedbyDADT and the recent proposals to ban same sex marriage that were occur­ring atthe sametime, he said. 
When the fight against DADT began to gain support, Alva’s partner at the time encouraged him to do something while he still was well-known enough to make a difference. Alva came out during a televised confer­ence, declaring to the nation and the world that he was a gay man and an American vet­eran. 
Alva watched with House MinorityLeader NancyPelosiin Congress as the House approvedthe proposalto repeal DADT in May, but he also wit­nessed the Senate’s rejection of the proposalinSeptember. 
“A lot of us thought that was the end,” Alva said. 
After a stand-alone bill pro­posing the repeal of DADT won the majority in both the House and Senate, Alva was present while President Barack Obama signed the repeal into law December 22. 

“I was very fortunate that I got to stand there as a part of history,” Alva said. “I got to represent the millions upon millions of people who have served in the military but who have hadto do so quietly.” 
Alva said DADT was not immediately repealed after the act was signed into law, but the repeal has brought gay rights issues to the forefront of the national conscience. 
“The signing of the repeal of ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ opened up a sort of Pandora’s box because it made people realize that everyone should be treated equally,” Alva said. 
Alva did not focus his speech solely on his experience as a gay man fighting in the armed forces. He also focused on his experience as a disabled man in American society. Three hours into his first tour of duty in Iraq in 2003, Alva was per­manently injured by a land mine. His right arm was bro­ken, his right leg was amputat-ed and he still suffers from nerve damage in his arm today. 

He jokingly referred to him­self as the jackpot for a diversi­ty conference — Latino, gay and disabled — but his experi­ences and educational back­ground in social work have taught him that life is too pre­cious to live according to the opinions of otherpeople. 
“We get this one life … tomorrow is just a word. It doesn’t exist, so live your life to the fullest,” he said. “No one owns myhappiness, and no one owns your happiness. So, I’m going to keep speaking on this issue.” 
Alva concluded his speech by urging students to challenge their school’s policy of nondis­crimination if those policies do not extend to instances of dis­crimination based on sexual orientation. Education is key in the awareness of gay and transsexual rights, he said. 
“The country is changing on the request that all people be treated with equal rights … [so] I encourage you to be the peo­ple thatyou wantto be.” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
she said. 

Gans and Zupancic will also 
Turnover 
continued from page 1 
up within the board and the Saint Mary’s community,” Zupancic said. 
“They put a face on student government,” Gans said. “They also made finances more transparent and set up a common groundwork between stu­focus on the technology issues that have raised concern from the student body. The newly appointed technology commis­sioner, Maureen Parsons, will oversee a board of students to address technology-related topics. 

“With this student technolo­
gy board, more students can have a voice in how we inter­act with the 
dent govern-“We want to increase technology ment and the department on 
awareness about the

clubs on cam-campus,” Gans 
issues going on in the

pus. We want said. clubs to know community, and we The new what student technology 
want to get our voices

government focus will be 
out there.” 

can do for fi nancially them.” demanding, so 
While the Jacqualyn Zupanic Gans said she new board will hopes to work 
student body vice president

continue with in conjunction these initia-with faculty tives, they members to said they also want to inte-achieve their technological grate more community goals. engagement into their plans. Besides creating new legis­
“We want to increase lation, Gans and Zupancic awareness said they have about the issues not forgotten going on in the basic student community, and “With this student needs, such as we want to get funding for 
technology board,

our voices out newspapers on 
more students can

there,” campus, and Zupancic said. have a voice in how will work to 
But the board meet those 
we interact with the 
does not want needs. 
technology

to focus solely Both Gans on permeating departments on and Zupancic the immediate said they are 
campus.” 

Saint Mary’s overwhelmingly community. excited to start 
Nicole Gans

Zupancic said their new term, they also want student body president and they hope to highlight the this summer importance of will give new involvement in board members the greater South Bend com-time to think of innovative munity. and fun ideas for the Saint 
“We want to have our home Mary’s community. of Saint Mary’s go beyond the border of SMC and branch out Contact Caitlin Housley at into the greater community,” chousl01@saintmarys.edu 


“This is a great project because it allows students to 
Day 

really see South Bend and continued from page 1 directly interact with residents 
while helping out the Food number of clubs and residence Bank,” food drive coordinator halls have stepped up and Melissa Janisch said. organized their own projects in Overall, the South Bend com-conjunction with munity has responded positively CommUniversity Day.  toward CommUniversity Day, 
“This year we have been able Kenney said. to reach out to more community “Community members look contacts than ever,” Sokas said. forward to this day every year,” 
“It was a big  he said. “People  
day of service  love  working  
that has blos-somed into a  “This year we have  with and inter­acting with the  
huge  day  of  been able to reach out  students.”  
service.” Kenney said one of the most  to more community contacts than ever.”  Service projects will also take place on the  
popular proj- Notre Dame  cam­ 
ects this year is  Claire Sokas  pus, including a  
mural painting at the Robinson C o m m u n i t y  student coordinator CommUniversity Day  kids’ festival open to all chil­dren in the South  
L e a r n i n g  Bend community.  
Center, where  The festival will  

students will have the opportu-take place on Irish Green from nity to work with children and 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. and will offer young adults who reside in games, food, music, a cakewalk South Bend. and a bounce house, coordina-
The CSC Canned Food Drive is tor Leah Bernardi said. also one of the most highly Projects run from 10 a.m. anticipated CommUniversity until 6 p.m., and the day con-Day projects, Kenney said. cludes with a community-wide Approximately 75 students will picnic at the Robinson go door-to-door in several Community Learning Center. South Bend neighborhoods to collect canned goods for the Contact Emma Russ at Food Bank of Northern Indiana. eruss@nd.edu 
Write news. Email mdoyle11@nd.edu. 


page 6 The Observer  NEWS Friday, April 1, 2011 
BronxZoocobrafound 
“Theyhaveonlyawakenedthe MargaretTanco,51,saidshe
Associated Press 

BronxZoo’sCobranation.” worriedaboutthesafeguards 
NEWYORK—Ahighlyven-Brehenysaidthe“lightheart-thezoohasinplacetokeepani­
omousEgyptiancobrathatwent ed”toneoftheTwitterspoof malsinside. 
missingattheBronxZoowas wasasignthatmostpeople “It’sverydangerous,”she 
foundThursdayafternearlya wereconfidentintheBronxzoo said.“Ifasnakecouldcomeout, 
weekonthelaminthereptile workers’skills. heavenknowswhatanimal 
house,zooofficialssaid. “Weappreciatedthatelement, could.” 
Theapproximately24-inch butatthesametimeweneeded ButBrehenysaidzooofficials 
snakewasfoundcoiledina tostayfocusedonrecovering wereconfidentthesnakewould 
darkcornerofthereptilehouse, theanimal,becauseitwasa havelikelyfledratherthanfight 
about200feetfromwhereit seriousissue,”hesaid. andposeadangertopeople. 
hadescapedfromaholding Outsidethezoo,someBronx “Snakesingeneralareshy, 
cageoutsidetheexhibitintoa residents said they were secretivecreatures.Andvenom 
Observer File Photo 

spacedescribedbyofficialsasa relievedthesnakehadbeen isnotprimarilyadefensemech-
OutgoingstudentbodypresidentCatherineSoler,left,andAndrew 
labyrinthofpipesandequip-found. anism,itisawaytoprocure 
Bell,right.Theduoleavesoffcetodayafterasuccessfulterm. 
ment. PatriciaVilla,35,whowalks food,”hesaid.“Theydon’trely “Asyoucanimagine,weare bythezooeveryday,saidshe onaggressivebitingorvenom wasunexpected,”shesaid.“We 
delightedtoreportthatthe andafriendprayedthatthey foranythingotherthanfood thinkthatwasourgreatest 
snakehasbeenfoundaliveand wouldnotcomeacrossthe acquisition.”
Soler 

well,”thezoo’sdirector,Jim snakeastheypassedthezoo Hesaidofficialswereconfi­continued from page 1 ershipinthosetimes.” 
reward,tobeabletotakelead-

Breheny,saidduringanews onerecentnightwhilewalking dentshewouldbefoundnotfar NeitherSolernorBellsaid 
conferenceashestoodinfront homefromanearbychurch. fromwhereshehadescaped. dentcostsandcampusimprove-theywouldregretanendtothe 
ofahugepictureofthesnake ment. moremonotonouschoresasso­
projectedonascreen. Reflectingontheirterm,Soler ciatedwithoffice. 
Thereptilehouse,aforebod­andBellsaidtheyaremost “I’mnotgoingtomissthe 
ingbuildingwithvinescrawl-proudoftheirworktoward everydaytasks,themundane 
ingupitssidesandstone improvingtheNotreDameexpe-thingsthataren’tasexcitingas 
headsofalligatorsandfrogs rienceforstudentsnotonlyin thedynamicmeetingswhere 
juttingfromthesidesofits thepresentbutalsoinyearsto youcanbecreativeandsee 
roof,hadclosedlastFriday come. results,”shesaid.“I’llbehappy 
afterthesnakedisappeared “We’rereallyproudofour toreceivelessemails.” 
andzooworkerscouldn’tfind effortswiththepolice,andwe Bellsaidtheweeklylabors 
it. thinkthroughourrecentagree-madeitexceedinglydifficultto 
Thesnakequicklybecame mentwe’llbeabletohavea accomplishthegreatergoals 
thestuffofurbanlegend. lastingimpact,”Solersaid.“The thatdrovethemtorunfor 
Someoneevenstartedpre­input we’ve had on the office. 
tendingtobethecobraon [planned]DeBartoloLounge “It’sastruggle.There’sso 
Twitterandsentfakeupdates renovationsandthelightson much going on behind the 
tolegionsoffollowersaboutits McGlinnfields,theRent-a-Text scenestoplanmeetings,it’s 
supposedescapadesonthe programandtheStudentsfor easytogetdistractedfromover-
streetsofNewYorkCity. SouthBenddiscountprogram— allgoals,”hesaid.“Youknow 
Butzooofficialssaidthe thosethingsthattookalotof youhave‘X,Y,Z’todothis 
snakeneverleftthereptile effortnowbutwillbeinplace weekbutyoualsohavetofocus 
houseandhadbeencrawling later.” beyondthat.” 
aroundinanoff-exhibitarea. Soler said she hopes the SolerandBellattributedmuch 
Brehenysaidthesnakewas University’srecentagreementto oftheirsuccesstothestudent 
“resting comfortably and establishanadministratorfor leadersandstaffwhoworked 
secure”andwasbeingevalu­off-campusissueswillhelp alongsidethem. 
atedtomakesureitwasin extendheradministration’s “Wehaveagreatenvironment 
goodcondition.Hesaidithad workintothefuture. intheofficewitheveryonewe 
beenplacedinthesamearea “Wejustpassedaresolutionin workwith,andIthinkthat 
astheothervenomoussnakes. CLC[CampusLifeCouncil]rec-extendstotheadministration 
Thezooplanstoexhibitthe ommendingthatoneadminis-andcommunity,soI’llmiss 
snakeonceithasbeenevalu­tratorbeacentralpointperson workingwiththemonaday-to­
ated. foroff-campusstudents,andwe daybasis,”shesaid.“We’re 
Hesaidthezoowouldprob-gotaresponsefromFr.[Tom] reallyproudofthewayevery-
ablyholdanamingcontestfor Doyle[vicepresidentofstudent oneworkedonissuesthatwere 
the cobra, believed to be affairs]thatitwillhappenthis relevantatthetimebutalso 
female,whichitobtainedin summer,”Solersaid.“Ithink tookthetimeandenergyto 
February. thatisabsolutelyadirectresult workonissuesthatwillaffect 
Thesnakewascapturedat ofourconversationsthisyear.” peopleafterweleave.” 
about9a.m.Thursday.Wood 
EX EN ED
EXTENDEDOPENHOUSEHOURS

shavingsthathadbeenused asbeddingforratsandmice TTHIHISFRIDAYAY,SATATURDAYAY & SUNDAYAY Bellsaidresultssuchasthe Nowthatstudentgovernment 
ID TU

finalizedpoliceagreementand willnotbetheprimarycon-commitmenttocreatingtheoff-sumeroftimeforthepair,Soler 
wereputouttolurethe3­campusadministratorwere andBellarelookingforwardto 
ounceadolescentsnakeoutof importantbecausenotallproj-summerinternshipsinNew 
hiding,saidBreheny,who ects-in-progresscanbepassed YorkandChicago,respectively, 
explainedthat“snakeshuntby THECLOSEST alongforcompletionbythetime andtomakingthemostoftheir 
olfactorymeans." thenextadministrationtakes senioryear. 
“Itwasmerelythescentof YOUCACAANNLIVE           TOCACAAMMPUPUS!
YO   

therodentsthatwehoped “Now, especially with a few weeks with [the] Student 
over. “I’mgoingtobeinterningfor 
wouldbringherout,”hesaid. 
PHASEI

Zooworkersalsoworkedto
turnover,werealizethatit’s Activities[Office]workingon 
ù 
' 

reducenoiseanddimmedthe thingtothenextpeople.That’s thenthissummerI’llbeworking 
hardtoreallypassalongevery-Frosh-Oandthingslikethat... 
lightstomaketheenviron-ù whywe’resoproudofthis forDeloitteinNewYork,”Soler 
mentmorecomforting,he 
PH I
PHASEI 

said,addingthatthekeystrat­somethingstructuredwecan spendmoretimedoingservice. 
policeagreement,becauseit’s said.“[Nextyear]I’dliketo 
egywaspatience. 




“We had to give her a tionships,whichCatherineespe-Women’s Care Center [of South 
passon,”Bellsaid.“Theserela-I’dliketovolunteeratthe 
chancetofeelsecureandcom-·4 Bedrooms ciallyhasbeengreatabout Bend].” 
fortablesoshewouldcome ·4½ Baths buildingwithpolice,areimpor-“I’’mgoingtobedoingfinance 
outandexploreherenviron-· Patio & Deck tant.” inChicago,soI’mexcitedIman­
ment,”hesaid. Solersaidtheunpredictable agedtogetajob.NextyearI’m 
Hedidnotexplainexactly andvastexpectationsofher goingtobeaResidentAssistant 


howthestaffcapturedthe 
snakebutsaidworkerswho • Spectacular views of campus –
officepresentedthegreatest inKnottHall,whichissome­
7 Bedr
· 7Bedrooms 
across from EckTennis

dealwithvenomoussnakes Tennischallenge. thingIreallyhopedtogetsince 
· 6½ Baths 

typicallyusespecialtongsand
“Andrew,Nick[Ruof,chiefof comingtoNotreDame,”Bell 
• ToTown Homes,Flats & Estates 
· on the Quad! 

atoolcalledasnakehook. with up to 7 bedrooms lotofsituationsthisyearwhere whatI’llbedoing,andit’skind 
staff]andIwerethrownintoa said.“Beyondthat,Idon’tknow 
Brehenysaidthezoois 
• Own a home on the“alumni quad” 

investigatinghowthesnake 
H Q 

wedidn’texpecttobecalled ofexcitingandscary.” 
escapedandevaluatingits
upontoshowsomuchleader-Despitetheperksofhavingof 













protocolstomakesureitdoes-
ship and to take so much increasedfreetimeandflexibili-
DOUGLAS

n’thappenagain.Zooofficials
responsibility,”shesaid.“Itwas tynextyear,Solersaidleaving 
BULLA

hopetoreopenthereptile Nootrre
Nottre

ourgreatestchallengetostep officewillbebittersweet. 
 
TWYCKENHAM
DUNN
Dam

housenextweek. N Daammee
“I’llmissputtinginthetime
upinthosetimes,tobelead-
Cammppuus Eck
Caamp

Meanwhile,BronxZoosCobra 
Tennis

ers.” andenergyforthegreatergood onTwitterhadstoppedposting
Solersaidthemosttrying —that’sreallyrewardingand 
messagessometimeThursday.

timeswerealsothemostfulfill-important,”shesaid.“It’sbeen 
JJAACC Soccer Lacrosse 
(574) 607-4271
Football 

“Oh,thisisn’tover,”theper-
VANESS
St dium
Sttaadium 
VANESS info@IvyQuad.com

ing. anhonortodothatforstudents, 
EDDY

sonwroteinane-mailtoThe 
EDISON 
23 www.IvyQuad.com

“Especiallythespikeinstu-formyfriends,foreveryone.” 
AssociatedPressinresponse
dentarrests,Declan[Sullivan]’s 

toarequestforcommenton
Contact John Cameron at
passing,thingslikethat,where 
Call David at (574) 607-4271 today!

thecaptureofthesnake.
jcamero2@nd.edu
ourinvolvementintheissues 

Friday, April 1, 2011 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Nixon library opens exhibit 
Associated Press 
YORBA LINDA, Calif. — For years, Richard Nixon’s presi­dential library was accused of committing another Watergate cover-up. But now, archivists say, the stonewallingis over. 
The library opened an expanded new exhibit Thursday that scholars say provides a more balanced and accurate account ofthe scandal thatbroughtdown apresident. 
“The public deserves nonpar­tisan, objective presidential libraries,” said library director Tim Naftali, who alluded to the original display as “inaccurate and whitewashed.” 
Among other things, the old exhibit portrayed Nixon’s epic downfall as a “coup” by his enemies and suggested the press behaved unethically in pursuinghim. 
The $500,000 makeover was undertaken by the National Archives after it took control of the library in 2007 from the private organization of Nixon loyalists that had overseen the site since its openingin 1990. 

The new display features sec­tions called “Abuse of Power," '”The Cover-Up” and “Dirty Tricks,” complemented by taped interviews and text. In one interview, Nixon aide Alexander Haig, who died last year, says the president once asked him if he would be will­ing to burn White House tapes. “I said no,” Haig recalls. 
Some material has never before been shown publicly, and it includes interviews with such figures as Watergate bur­glar G. Gordon Liddy andNixon aide Charles Colson, who went to prison for crimes that came to light as the scandal unfold­ed. 
Among the changes: the old exhibit blamed a “mechanical malfunction” for the notorious 18½ minute gap on one White House tape, and added that Nixon enemies “wasted no time in finding sinister and devious motives” for the blank space. The new exhibit notes that audio experts identified five, and as many as nine, erasures on the tape. 

The scandal began with a burglary at Democratic National Committee headquar­ters at the Watergate Hotel complex in Washington, and eventually exposed widespread wrongdoing in the Nixon White House, including abuse of gov­ernment agencies for political purposes. Nixon announced his resignation on Aug. 8, 1974. 
Dismantled several years ago, the library’s original Watergate exhibit was the largest of any at the site at the time, consisting of documents, text and photographs along a long, darkened hallway. But academics ridiculedit. 
When the site opened, Nixon biographer Stephen E. Ambrose said the commentary on one heavily edited Watergate tape “would almost convince a listener that Nixon never ordered a cover-up or a payment ofhush money.” 
“The presentation makes the best possible case for Nixon, mainly in Nixon’s own words, and is entirely self-serving," 
Ambrose wrote in a Los Angeles Times column. 
One section of the old exhibit, titled “The drum beat swells,” said: “Allegations took on the weight of fact in the minds of those who were determined to engineer a coup of their own." The sec­tion went on to say that Washington Post reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein, who played a major role in exposing the scandal, might have broken the law and violated ethics standards in their zeal to uncover wrongdoing. 
(Woodward and former Post executive editor Benjamin Bradlee are sched­uled to make their first visit to the library in April for a conversation about Watergate. Bernstein visited in 2007.) 
The private Richard Nixon Foundation, which used to run the site, has argued that the exhibit was “President Nixon’s perspective” and that no one had found any factual errors in its text or exhibits. 
The foundation, which now serves in an advisory role, filed extensive objections to the new exhibit with the National Archives last year, saying it lacked context to explain Nixon’s decision-mak­ing. 
In a statement Thursday, foundation Chairman Ronald 
H. Walker called the new exhibit “one interpretation of the events that led to President Nixon’s resigna­tion.” He called Watergate “just one chapter in the enor­mously consequentiallife." 
Nixon White House aide Bruce Herschensohn said Nixon’s perspective should have remained, arguing that presidential libraries should be ashrine. 
“I can only come to the con­clusion it will probably be a hit piece,” he said the night before the new display opened. “This is the Nixon library. This is his place. He’s buried there ... and so is Mrs. Nixon.” 
Highwaydeathratefalls to lowest rate in 60 years 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Highway deaths have plummeted to their lowest levels in more than 60 years, helped by more people wearing seat belts, better safety equipment in cars and efforts to curb drunken driving. 
The Transportation Department estimated Friday that 32,788 people were killed on U.S. roads in 2010, a decrease of about 3 percent from 2009. It’s the fewest num­ber of deaths since 1949 — dur­ing the presidency of Harry Truman — when more than 30,000 people were killed. 
The Pacific Northwest region, which includes Washington state, Oregon, Idaho, Montana and Alaska, saw fatalities fall 12 percent. Western states including Arizona, California and Hawaii also posted large declines. 
Government officials said the number of deaths was still sig­nificant but credited efforts on multiple fronts to make road­ways safer. 
“Too many of our friends and neighbors are killed in prevent­able roadway tragedies every day,” said Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood. “We will continue doing everything pos­sible to make cars safer, increase seat belt use, put a stop to drunk driving and dis­tracted driving and encourage drivers to put safety first." 
The numbers are projections for 2010. The government expects to release final data on deaths and injuries, including specific state-by-state totals, later this year. 

Traffic deaths typically decline during an economic downturn because many motorists cut back on discre­tionary travel. The number of deaths fell in the early 1980s and early 1990s, when the U.S. economy was struggling. 
But people spent more time in their cars last year, making the estimates more noteworthy. The number of miles traveled by American drivers in 2010 grew by 20.5 billion, or 0.7 percent, compared with 2009, according to the Federal Highway Administration. The number of miles traveled increased slightly in 2009 after declines in the previous two years. 
Separately, the rate of deaths per 100 million miles traveled is estimated to have hit a record low of 1.09 in 2010, the lowest since 1949. The previous record was in 2009, which had a rate of 1.13 deaths per 100 million miles traveled. 
“It’s a really good sign that fatalities are down despite the fact that (vehicle miles traveled) is up,” said Barbara Harsha, executive director of the Governors Highway Safety Association. 
Harsha said fewer people were dying because of a num­ber of factors related to vehicle technologies, safer driving and road designs. 
Safety equipment such as side air bags that guard the head and midsection in a crash and anti-rollover technology like electronic stability control are becoming standard equipment on new cars and trucks. 

Harsh Fla. weather causes destruction 
Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — Windy, rainy weather furiously swept through central Florida on Thursday, knocking out power to tens ofthousands ofpeople, flood­ing roads and toppling trucks and smallplanes. 
InLakeland,whereseveralhun­dred people had gathered for the annual Sun ‘n Fun aviation festi­val, a tent collapsed and injured seven people, authorities said. Authorities said all of the injuries were minor and six were taken to ahospital. 
“The worst injury was a frac­tured hip,” said Polk County Sheriff’s spokesman Scott Wilder. About 70 people were under the tent when it collapsed and some crawledout,hesaid. 
“It wasn’t like a mass of people trapped in a building or anything likethat,”hesaid. 
It was the second day of bad weather in the central Florida region.ForhoursThursdaymorn­ing, strong storms swept across the state, starting in the Gulf of Mexicoandtravelingeastoverthe Interstate 4 corridor toward Orlando. 

Tens of thousands of customers were without power. Downed powerlineswerespottedinsever­al counties and in the city of Tampa. 
Windgustsofupto90milesper hour were felt in Tampa, and emergency crews were respond­ing to a report of a commercial buildingcollapsewithnoinjuries. 
A janitor at an elementary school in a suburb northwest of downtown Tampa was taken to a hospital after he was nearly struckbylightning. 
“He was dazed and confused,” saidGulfsideElementaryprincipal Chris Clayton, who added that many parents kept their children home from school because of the badweather.Atleastonecommu­nitycollegecancelledclasses. 
A few small planes had flipped over at the St. Petersburg-Clearwater Airport. Large traffic jamsoccurredonabridgewhena tractor-trailer truck flipped onto two cars, but no one needed med­icaltreatment.Treeswereuproot­ed and a large awning collapsed behind the offices of Daytona InternationalSpeedway. 

The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Friday, April 1, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

I hate Notre Dame 
Notre Dame is a school steeped in tradition and praised by alumni, stu­dents and faculty alike. I hate it. 
Coming to Notre Dame was the worst decision of my life 
— Why didn’t I just go to Georgetown? — and I have regret­ted it ever since that fateful day last spring. 

Why do I hate Notre Dame? Well, aside Christian Myers from Notre Dame being a News Production narrow mind-Editor ed, elitist, over­priced, penny-pinching, Stone Age, backward, homogenous, soul-less, repressive, tyrannical, unexciting, infe­rior institution, the food is disgusting. 

I live near South Dining Hall and have to ingest the same unimaginative, underprepared food every day. It is a truly horrible situation, and I can only imagine how much worse it must be for those who have to endure North Dining Hall. There is of course a Burger King on campus, but while the logo may look like a beacon of hope amid the stormy seas of nauseating foodstuffs even Burger King is tainted by Notre Dame. It must be something in the air, or more likely the water — given the quality of what comes from the sink in my room, I often wonder if I’d be better off NOT washing my hands. 
Speaking of my room, residential life on this campus is the stuff of dreams — and by dreams I mean nightmares! If I wanted to live inside of a cinder block, have my actions governed by strict rules and never interact with the oppo­site sex, I would go to prison. Instead I live in a place called Fisher Hall and feel my hope slowly dying. 
While on the subject of hopelessness, let’s not forget the student body. I’d like to know how I am supposed to be exposed to new life experiences by a bunch of rich kids from Chicagoland. The overwhelming banality of the stu­dents makes me feel like I am in a small room with the walls slowly clos­ing in, only the walls are thousands of former high school athletes wearing American Eagle clothes and listening to iPods — presumably to drown out my screams of terror. Even if I accept the lack of diversity at Notre Dame, I have to deal with everyone’s arro­gance. I mean we’re basically all the same person, so why are people so smug? 
The worst part of this school, howev­er, is something I signed myself up for. I made the unfortunate mistake of working for The Observer. In addition to being a completely irrelevant publi­cation, they demand too much of me. I am required to write story upon story that no one will ever read. Once a week, I am forced to sit in an over­heated office laying out pages no one will read for a salary below the cost of a postage stamp. Sometimes I fantasize about submitting a story written entirely in wing-dings and wonder if anyone would even notice. 
Finally, I’d like to add that it is April Fool’s Day. We have our problems, but Notre Dame is my home — I love ND. April Fools! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Christian Myers at christian.m.myers.94@nd.edu 
Humanity or hummus? Priorities of student government 
The student government office on the second floor of LaFortune is not quite the Oval Office, but April 1 marks a presidential change nonetheless. 
Today Pat McCormick and Brett Rocheleau assume their respective positions of student body president and vice president, while Catherine Soler and Andrew Bell will step down after their year in office. 
Soler and Bell can be proud of what they accom­plished. They represented the student body with poise despite a slew of arrests in the fall, heat from the local community and the general red tape that too often paralyzes student government. They encouraged the use of Transpo and improved communication between student gov­ernment and the student body. They were good at their job — and that is key. 
Enter McCormick and Rocheleau. The team’s campaign suc­ceeded on the strength of McCormick’s public speaking, his pol­ished campaign and his promises for a student government that is bigger and brighter. The incoming administration’s plan — rewrite the presidential job description. McCormick promised a student government with no limits, a student government that is visible, a student government that makes students care about something more. 
He wants to improve sustainability, reach out to the local com­munity and hold a large-scale concert in the spring centered on the concept of social concern. The day-to-day tasks, the minute details that were the trials and the triumphs of the Soler-Bell administration, will be delegated to a “director of constituent services” while the president focuses on the world. 
Today is McCormick’s first day. Today he will begin to answer 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Project Salt 
CommUniversity day is coming up this Saturday. For your sake, I hope you’ve signed up. The day is a fantas­tic opportunity to interact with the South Bend commu­nity, make visible improvements in the community and have a really great time with really great people. 
Afterward, everybody should come to the wrap-up picnic at the Robinson Community Learning Center. There will be free food, more great people and a free concert hosted by ND Fighting NTDs, featuring some AcoustiCafe favorites. 
We, ND Fighting NTDs, are putting on the concert to promote a really incredible project that has the poten­tial to raise Haiti’s national IQ by ten points. The proj­ect, Notre Dame Haiti Project Salt Initiative, seeks to provide fortified salt for the residents of Haiti. Fortified salt contains Iodine and DEC, a compound that prevents Lymphatic Filariasis. 
All these scientific compounds have very concrete benefits. Iodine is necessary to prevent cretinism in young children. Cretinism stunts mental and physical growth, leaving young brains trapped in various stages of development. Lymphatic Filariasis causes grotesque swelling of the limbs and drastically impedes quality of life. 
NDHPS already has a factory running in Haiti which produces salt for less than 50 cents per pound. Getting fortified salt to the people who need it allows children to grow up healthy, enjoying full mental capacity, the ability to learn and live. Celebrate your life and educa­tion, and learn more about the Salt Project this Saturday at the Robinson Community Learning Center 
— and catch some great music while you’re at it! 
Eileen Lynch 
sophomore Ryan Hall Mar. 31 

OBSERVER POLL 
Who do you think is going to winthe NCAA men’s championships? 
Kentucky Connecticut VCU Butler 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 

the question that remains — can he do it? Can he successfully change student government into a larger voice? Or will he find himself paralyzed in a slew of red tape and failed ambitions? 
McCormick has promise. 
He speaks with clarity and conviction, and underneath the tow­ering imagery of lighthouses and crossroads and world peace, he has an impressive track record. McCormick served as social concerns chair for stu­dent government with unbridled passion. He execut­ed a successful campaign for awareness about the political crisis in Sudan this winter that culminated in the Playing for Peace rally and basketball tourna­ment. He led the Social Concerns Committee through projects like eND Hunger, and he connected himself 
with people who can help him in the future. (He also resurrected quarter dogs from their 33-cent grave.) 
Yet his experience remained inside the structure of the current student government. McCormick’s largest challenge will be revamping this structure toward his ideal. Students will still turn to student government when wanting a better textbook rental system, lights on McGlinn Field and a change in the drinking games policy. Today McCormick must begin on the reality of his promises. He must decide if he can manage his large projects in tandem with the needs, sometimes trivial but always pressing, of the student body. He must decide if working on world issues can happen simultaneously with saving hummus in the dining hall. 
Notre Dame is full of students who care about something more. We are addicted to the Center for Social Concerns, and we reach for the world’s problems with our idealism and our talent. 
Perhaps, just perhaps, this hunger for something more can be combined with McCormick’s ideas to create something new. 
Crisis of education 

If there is one person I swore to myself I would never become, it was the person who writes Viewpoint articles while abroad. And while I have been agonizing over the lack of spoons in the dining hall, the hook-up culture and the existence of Saint Mary’s these past few months, it is for something altogether different that I feel compelled to write. 
On April 13, four national education reformers will come to Notre Dame to present a panel: “The System: Opportunity, Crisis, and Obligation in K-12 Education.” Last semester, I attended a campus showing of “The Lottery,” a documentary following children hoping to attend one of New York City’s elite charter schools. Instead of the perfunctory question-and-answer session typically following these sorts of events, I looked around and saw that my fellow attendees were riveted. I watched as tempers flared, voices raised and hand after hand rose to speak. And thank goodness, because we need to be talking. 
When discussing education, it is all to easy to list the statistics, but I challenge all of you to attend the panel and forget about the num­bers. They will always be there in some degree of imbalance, taunt­ing us, reminding us that Finland produces more graduates, that males drop out at a faster rate than females … the list goes on. What will not always be there are the students. They will grow up, maybe graduate, maybe not, and many of them will enroll their own children in the same troubled system. 
There is a crisis in our nation, but it is not a crisis about percent­ages. It is a crisis about children. So we must start talking, start ask­ing questions. Are charter schools the answer? Or do they lack accountability? How do we define accountability? How do we keep good teachers in schools and keep bad ones out? How do we deter­mine what is a “good” versus a “bad” teacher? Each question prompts ten more, in an infinite spiral you should get a math major to explain to you. We cannot get discouraged. But we can talk. 
Alex Karamol 
junior Badin Hall Mar. 31 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“America has rolled by like an army of steamrollers. It has been erased like a blackboard, rebuilt and erased again. But baseball has marked the time.” 
James Earl Jones as Terence Mann in “Field of Dreams” 


The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Friday, April 1, 2011 page 9 
Coming to terms with life and death 
Nietzsche warns in his “Ecce Homo,” against a sentimental misreading of his Overman: “this word ‘Overman’ is under­stood almost everywhere with complete innocence to mean values that are the opposite from the ones appearing in the figure of Zarathustra, which is to say the ‘idealistic’ type of the higher sort of humanity, half ‘saint,’ half ‘genius.’” Nietzsche does not hesitate to offer an alternative model: “If I whisper to peo­ple that this type would look more like a Cesare Borgia than a Parsifal, they do not believe their ears.” 
Whoever he would be, it is clear, the Overman would not conform to the artistic ideal that came to represent the counter­culture of the late twentieth century — a kind of saintly genius of which John Lennon is the paradigm. But is there any room between hippie and homicidal dicta­tor? The Overman, it is clear, would be a man of violence — and yet he would some­how use this violence not to destroy but rather to create — to revaluate values, not to abolish them. 
When can violence be legitimately used? The Overman, according to Nietzsche, would use violence to teach us — to free us from our slavery to fear and transform us into what we were meant to be. In the first section of his Genealogy of Morals, Nietzsche argues that “the two opposed values ‘good and bad,’ ‘good and evil,’” — that is, the aristocratic morality and the slave morality — “have fought a terrible millennia-long battle on earth.” And though “the second value has had the upper hand for a long time,” Nietzsche excoriates this slave morality and hopes for its overthrow — that is, for a revalua­tion of values, a creative violence to be wrought by the Overman. 

Who is this violent artist, this Overman? Someone very different, it is clear, from both Lennon and Hitler, from both Parsifal and Borgia — someone who would seem, at first, hardly human at all. Someone like Roy Batty. 
Ridley Scott’s Blade Runner tells the story of a dystopian detective, Rick Deckard, who is tasked with hunting down five replicants — genetically engineered slaves, superficially indistinguishable from humans but faster, stronger and smarter 
— who have escaped and returned to Earth. Led by Roy — graced with superla­tive speed, strength and intelligence — these replicants hope to force their “father” to reengineer them beyond their four-year lifespans. 
Roy and his replicant allies are natural aristocrats, but the natural slaves — that is, the humans, who are far weaker than the replicants — have banded together to enslave those who would otherwise be their masters. The humans — Deckard, for example — see the replicants as evil: they need to be hunted down. And the repli­cants, brainwashed into the slave morality, see the humans as evil, hunting down those — Hannibal Chew, J. F. Sebastian and Eldon Tyrell — who created and enslaved them. In doing so, the replicants act out of resentment — anger at the harm their enslavers did to them. 
Both humans and replicants are afraid: they want most of all to prolong their own lives — and this frequently means killing those “evil” individuals that they see as threats. However, after his encounter with Tyrell, Roy realizes that life isn’t about — indeed, couldn’t be about — staying alive as long as possible. The important thing is to accomplish great things with the time that one has — to take on great challenges and overcome them. “The flame that burns half as long burns twice as brightly,” says Tyrell, “and you have burned so very brightly, Roy.” Only in this way, by embrac­ing danger, can one cease to live in fear. And only when one ceases to live in fear can one cease to hunt down one’s enemies. By the end, Roy no longer sees Deckard and the other humans as evil — for, indeed, any significant difference between humans and replicants has been shown to be illusory, now that the replicants have developed a truly human emotional depth. 
This is the reason that Roy engages in his final, almost playful combat with Deckard. Roy is trying to teach him some­thing. “Quite an experience to live in fear, isn’t it?” Roy asks Deckard. “That’s what it is to be a slave.” His point is that, so long as the humans and the replicants live in hate of one another, they are slaves to their fear of death — like Nietzsche’s Last Man, unable to live for anything but the safety of pleasure and the absence of pain. 
And, in the case of the humans, this is especially perverse, for their meager pleas­ures are the products of a socioeconomic system built upon slave labor in hellish conditions on the edges of space. But things do not have to be this way. Roy saves the life of Deckard to show him that they do not have to see one another as evil, that they can live without fearing one another — that is, without fearing death. 
Death is imminent — whether in four years, as for the replicants, or in 70, as for the humans. “It’s too bad she won’t live,” Gaff quips. “But then again, who does?” To live free is to come to terms with death — and to forge one’s own path, not to follow that of the aesthete directed by a dystopian capitalism and concerned only with pro­longing his own comfort. Both humans and replicants have the capacity to reach beyond themselves, beyond their fear and to care for others — as does Roy when he saves Deckard, as does Rachel when she loves Deckard. He knows that he cannot return to the slave morality that defines the profession of the blade runner. He can no longer serve and preserve a society that keeps and kills slaves as though they were mere machines. 
“You’ve done a man’s job, sir!” yells Gaff. In hindsight, his sarcasm is obvious. So long as Deckard continues to think in terms of man against machine, he is mere­ly a pawn in a radically exploitative socioe­conomic order — an order that is hunting down the woman he loves. 
So the sometime blade runner decides to run. But not before finding one last clue — an origami unicorn, left by Gaff outside Deckard’s apartment. Does Gaff know of Deckard’s recurring unicorn daydream? Does Gaff know for certain what Deckard only suspects — that he too is a replicant, manipulated by Chief Bryant into “retiring” his own kind? “You are the blade, blade runner,” Gaff once joked. Was he trying, perhaps, to reveal something? Deckard is certain, at any rate, of only one thing — whatever lesson he has learned, Gaff learned it long ago — and is therefore will­ing to help Rachel and Deckard escape together. Into a future taught to them by creative violence — one unknown, but free. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his third year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. Listen to his radio show on WVFI at 1 p.m. on Thursdays. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

You are not alone 
Dear Members of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary’s Community, 
As the co-chairs of the University’s Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention, we want to deliver a simple but vitally important message to anyone in this community who has experienced sexual vio­lence: you are not alone. 
Notre Dame is committed to addressing sexual violence in all of its forms. We actively seek to pre­vent sexual assault, address unacceptable or unlawful behavior when it occurs, provide resources and support for those who have been victimized, and ensure the safety and well-being of every student. 
If you or someone you love has experienced sexual violence, Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. Please visit our website, csap.nd.edu, to learn more. And know that you are not alone. 
Sincerely, 
Sr. Susan Dunn 
co-chair 

Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention 
Mar. 31 
Dr. David Moss 
co-chair 

Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention 
Mar. 31 
Gluten-Free ND? 

I am not overly concerned whether or not the dining halls serve meat on Fridays during Lent. I don't eat it, but I won’t force my beliefs on you. What concerns me more is the lack of gluten-free foods on these days. As I was diagnosed as being a non-Celiac gluten intolerant over Christmas break, this is my first Lent dealing with this problem. I had never before given much thought to all of the meatless options: mac and cheese, cheese pizza, potato pancakes and various vegetable casseroles. Even the fish option last week was breaded. 
I’m not suggesting we take away these options because: (1) most people can eat them and (2) they taste good, but could we please have a gluten-free choice that isn’t Rice Chex cereal or PB&J on bread which must be defrosted in the microwave? I’d be happy seeing one of the GF stickers on some fish or some potatoes. 
P.S. Gluten-Free ND, your link on the SAO website goes to the Glass Club, just for your information. 
Mike Petravick 
sophomore Duncan Hall Mar. 31 
The state of being 
In support of the chain of messages from Ms. Mason and Mr. Nawrocki, I think it is necessary to point out a fatal flaw with the entire structure of the upcoming “God Debate.” Our modern culture is mistaken in believing that if we think hard and long enough, everything can be supported by human reason, even the nonexistence or existence of God. However, it is ironic that I have come to understand the contrary from one of the greatest contributors to modern philosophy. 
In his “Critique of Pure reason,” Immanuel Kant claims that “‘being’ is ... not a real predicate.” In other words, a predicate is an attribute belonging to a sub­ject (God, in this case). These would be attributes such as “omnipotent,” “all-know­ing” and “good.” We then associate these attributes to God, the subject of our claim, to say things like “God is omnipotent,” and so on. However, according to Kant, the claim that “God is” or “God exists” does not add anything new to our understanding of God, even whether or not He exists. Asking if God exists would now be as if you had asked yourself whether this newspaper exists. Believe it or not, though you have a perception that this paper exists, the skep­tic claims you have no reason to believe that. This is why it is futile to argue with a skeptic. He fails to use reason consistently by drawing into question conclusions and common sense premises you have taken for granted, without any real motivation for doing so, simply to deny your main conclu­sion. 
With this in mind, it seems futile to reduce a demonstration of God’s existence to an academic debate. Because both sides are arguing with nearly incommensurable premises, each side will more than likely conclude that the other side is “unreason­able.” Although I am not against examining either an atheist’s or theist’s reasoning, the competitive structure of a debate suggests that we are looking for one side to come out on top, which in this case, is not possi­ble for the reasons stated above. 
Although reason has its limitations, it is not utterly useless. I do not believe that St. Thomas Aquinas thought he had once and for all proved God’s existence in “The Five Ways.” Rather, he sought to demonstrate that God’s existence can be supported by reason in someone who accepts on faith those natural first principles that Ms. 
Mason previously mentioned. 

Though it may be difficult to grasp what we cannot directly sense, God does not “hide” to avoid being found. Rather, God is a personal being, and He seeks us out in order to have a closer, more personal rela­tionship than the distant, remote attitude we have towards any scientific theory found in an academic debate. 
In conclusion, if God could be conclusive­ly “proved” at such a venue as the “God Debate,” I would have no more affection for Him than I have for Newton’s law of gravitation. 
Daniel J. Quinlan 
senior St. Edward’s Hall Mar. 31 
The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Friday, April 1, 2011 
Arabic Culture Night: More Than Just Dancing 


By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Interim Scene Editor 

The Arabic Culture Night returns to Notre Dame for its fourth year tonight, and it promises to be bigger and bet­ter than ever. More than 40 students from the department have worked tirelessly to pre­pare this very special event and 
are ready to share their hard work. 
“Arabic Culture Night is a unique opportu­nity to engage and explore culture,” says producer Ghada Bualuan, director of Undergraduate Studies, Arabic & Mediterranean Middle East Studies. “It is a way to enrich students’ understanding of Arabic and Middle Eastern history and her­itage through music, literature and theater. It symbolically unites us all, students and audience, with an interrupted centuries-old Arabic Culture.” 
Arabic culture will be on stage in almost every imaginable art form. From dancing to poetry reading, the night promises to have something for everyone. Although all the 
material used is originally from the Middle East, the program is easily relat­able. Invigorating music, profound readings and energetic dancing will appeal not only to students but also to audiences of all ages. The English translations help, too. 
Senior Jonathan Liedl, president of The Arabic Club and chair of the Arabic Culture Night Committee, calls this night “the capstone event of [his and his peers’] Arabic careers here at Notre Dame.” 
“It’s great to reflect on just how far we’ve come,” he says. “Additionally, this is the Arabic Club’s inaugural year on campus. And also, it really is an opportunity for us to show our appreciation for all the Arabic faculty, especially Ghada Bualuan and her husband Ramzi.” 
The event is quite a capstone with a rich variety of acts and talents. Ben Gavel, a senior Arabic student, will read poetry from revolutionary Tunis, “The Will of Life” and “To the Tyrants of the World.” 
Other Arabic students, Molly Herber, Ian Montijo, Victoria Braga and Joe Dufour will recite, in two parts, “Children’s Heaven,” a short story from Naguib Mahfouz, a Nobel Laureate from Egypt. 

Students have also prepared a comedy play, “The Dream Bistro.” It tells the story of the hilarity that ensues when an arrogant playboy attempts to go on a date with two different girls at the same restaurant. Liedl promises good, clean comedy, with the slapstick aspect taken quite literally. 


In addition to these performances and a short film produced by faculty and students, Arabic Culture Night will also feature premiere student artists performing various music and dance acts. The night will include a song, “Oh! your Love, Laure,” performed by Tyler Harmsen and Sarah Kiningham, as well as a violin performance by Mat Madonia. 
Dance acts will range from Oriental dancing to Dabke, forms of folkloric Lebanese dances. Students have been preparing for their rhythmic debut, giving their time, talent and passion freely. The dances will also feature typical Arabic costume, adding to the beauty of the dance. 
Bualuan and Liedl encourage stu­dents of all majors and backgrounds to come experience this unique cultural event. Liedl came to Notre Dame with a Spanish background, but found him­self drawn to the exotic and exciting lan­guage and culture of the Middle East. Even if students are happily content in their major, he still encourages them to attend. 
“[This night] helps us to realize that Arabic is more than just a language we learn from textbooks, it’s the voice of an entire culture and people … Everyone should come out to learn a little more about the people and culture of a misunder­stood, but vital part of today’s world.” 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 
On campus 
What: Arabic Culture Night Where: Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business When: Friday, April 1, 7 p.m. How much: Free, open to all Learn more: Program of Arabic Language and Culture, 304 O’Shaughnessy Hall 



Photos Courtesy of Mary Claire O’Donnell 
The Observer 

Scene 
Friday, April 1, 2011 page 11 
in quechua,” Carreño said. 
Latino culture is known for its energetic, colorful and lively feel and character. This event will not only accurately inform the audience and vividly exemplify a variety of Latino customs and traditions, but it will also captivate and entertain the audience. It will encompass the par­ticular calor y sabor (warmth and flavor) of Latino culture that this student community brings to our campus. 
The event will take place at The Century Center in downtown South Bend and shuttle buses from Library Circle will facilitate student trans­portation to the venue before and after the show. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Box Office for $10 and will also be sold at the door for $12. For more information, contact Rachael Carreño at rcarreno@nd.edu 
Contact Maria Fernandez at 
mfernan5@nd.edu 
On campus 
What: Latin Expressions
“Origenes: Regresando a
Nuestras Raices” 
Where: The South Bend Century 
Center 
When: Friday, April 1, 7:30 p.m. to 
9:00 p.m.How much: $10 at Lafortune Box Office, $12 at the door Learn more: Email ahavens1@nd.edu or rcarreno@nd.edu 


By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 

Ready to sing, dance and enjoy one of the largest cultural events on campus? The university’s Latino stu­dent organization, La Alianza, will host their annual showcase Latin Expressions today. It will be an exciting night full of Latino history, culture and art. 
The theme of this year’s very much anticipated event is “Orígenes: Regresando a Nuestras Raíces” (Origins: Returning to Our Roots). The show’s performances will high­light the different musical, literary and folkloric traditions present in Latin America. 
There will be a variety of different University groups and clubs partici­pating in this event, Latin Expressions coordinator Rachael Carreño said. The show will consist of various dance performances by Troop ND, Project Fresh break ­dancers, First Class Steppers and Ballet Folklórico. There will also be several musical acts from groups, such as Coro Primavera and Mariachi ND, as well as a special performance by a classical guitarist. 
In addition to music and dance, Latin Expressions will also address current Latin American political issues in some of their performanc­es. 
“MECHA, a club on campus, is per­forming a spoken -word piece addressing the ongoing drug wars affecting Juarez, Mexico and other border cities, and a group of stu­dents will perform songs and a poem 




BRANDON KEELAN | Observer Graphic 
page 12 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Friday, April 1, 2011 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Smart keeps Rams focused on game despite media circus 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON — They fought too hard to earn a spot at center stage to slink away now. 
“Coach kind of warned us how crazy it would be,” Virginia Commonwealth guard Joey Rodriguez said Thursday, grin­ning from ear to ear. “I just kinda shot a music video. That was nuts, but it’s been fun.” 
Never mind that Reliant Stadium, where VCU plays Butler in Saturday’s first semifi­nal, holds 10 times as many fans as the Rams’ Siegel Center back home in Richmond, Va. Or that the attention from the national media sometimes resembles speed-dating, with rapid-fire questions flying in every direction. 
“I don’t think it affects us at all,” guard Brandon Rozzell said of the extra responsibilities this week. “If anything, it’s kind of team bonding.” 
Fellow seniors Rodriguez, Ed Nixon and Jamie Skeen agree. 
“We know what we’re getting ourselves into,” Nixon said. “This game is just like another game. Of course, it has a bigger stage, but we’ve got to play it like it’s just another game.” 
There are, however, still two days before the 11th-seeded Rams (28-11) play No. 8 Butler (27-9). 
“I think once we take that bus ride on game day it will, or practice here with the open practice it will be a little sur­prising, shocked about what we’re really into,” Rozzell said. “I think no one is shell-shocked yet about how important this us. It hasn’t sunk in yet.” 
And if it does, the Rams will take care of it. 
“If anyone’s uptight on the court or in the locker room, we notice it,” Rozzell said. 
And easily fix it. 
“We’ll pick on them until they start smiling and laughing,” he said. “If a guy is sitting there with his head down after mak­ing a bad play, we’re going to joke about. I think that’s one of the things that helps us out. We know each other, and we know what helps each other best.” 
No one, it seems, is looser than Rodriguez. It helps that he clearly has fun on the floor and doesn’t mind telling the story over and over about how he almost transferred when Anthony Grant left to take the Alabama job and Smart was hired. He pretty much rolls with it all. 
In some ways, the attention is just on a larger scale of how things have been in Richmond, Va. 
About 5,000 fans were wait­ing at 1:30 a.m. in the Siegel Center when the team returned from San Antonio having fin­ished off Kansas. 
More than one thousand wait­ed more than an hour on Wednesday for the team to emerge from the arena and board a bus for the airport, holding signs and screaming to show their appreciation. 
The impact has come in little ways, too. 
Skeen, a sociology major, said his sociology professor tailored a class to have it be about bas­ketball and sociology, and that he participated more that day than he ever had before. 
“I kept raising my hand and answering all the questions,” he said. 
And Bradford Burgess, only of only two starters who will return next season, said he made a bad miscalculation on campus earlier in the week. 
“I tried to walk through the bookstore when the Final Four shirts came out, which was a mistake because I was in there for like an hour, hour and a half just trying to sign autographs and shake hands,” Burgess said. “It’s definitely been crazy.” 
Getting back onto the floor for a game, he added, might seem like a return to normal. 
“We’re still a team playing, you know, with nothing to lose, and it’s definitely been a great experience, but we’re coming in to win a ball game and then to win another ball game,” he said. 


MLB 

Granderson helps Yankees top former team 
first at-bat for Detroit, helping second deck in right. the game,” Cabrera said. but struck out Nick Swisher 
Associated Press 

his new team build an early “Couldn’t throw a strike until “They’re tough.” and Jorge Posada with two 
NEW YORK — As soon as run, and Miguel Cabrera hit a he hit it out of the yard,” Coke Verlander was making his deceptive changeups. Justin Verlander was done for sacrifice fly and scored twice. said. fourth straight opening day “I’m trying to change things the day, the Detroit Tigers froze But by the time Mariano Rivera Said Leyland: “He just got start, most for the Tigers since around in April. Last April I up. closed it out for a save, the behind Granderson and left no Jack Morris went 10 in a row wore long sleeves,” Verlander 
Verlander held the New York final 10 Tigers hitters had been doubt what was coming.” (1980-90). He was hoping to get said. “The only issue when I felt Yankees in check for six retired by New York’s imposing With the flags above the off to a quick start after going it was really cold on my body innings, throwing 114 pitches bullpen. lights in right field whipping 1-2 with a 5.29 ERA last year in was coming out of the dugout. in short sleeves on a frigid “Their bullpen and the long toward the foul pole, Mark April before finishing 18-9, and They have heaters in there.” afternoon, but Phil Coke served ball is what did us in today,” Teixeira connected off he altered his offseason work-Jhonny Peralta drove in his up a tiebreaking homer to ex-Detroit manager Jim Leyland Verlander for a three-run shot out routine to help accomplish first run of the month. After Tiger Curtis Granderson in the said. “I thought it was actually in the third. that. going without an RBI in 66 seventh and Detroit dropped its a decent game for the condi-“It was a fastball in. He did a “Obviously, coming out of the spring at-bats, he hit a sacrifice season opener 6-3 on tions. It was pretty rough.” pretty good job of turning on it. spring that I had, this is not the fly in his first plate appearance Thursday. Granderson, traded to the Not too many hitters can do result that I wanted,” Verlander to give Detroit the lead in the 
“I just felt absolutely not Yankees in a December 2009 that,” Tigers catcher Alex Avila said. “I felt pretty calm consid-second inning. right. Nothing else to blame but deal that sent Coke and Austin said. ering opening day, Yankee Cabrera lined a single and myself,” said Coke, scheduled Jackson to Detroit, also made Slimmed down by 25 pounds Stadium — it’s hard to keep Martinez hit a hot shot to short-to move into the rotation April two terrific plays in center and after having surgery on his your adrenaline in check.” stop that Derek Jeter couldn’t 
9. “You’ve got to do your job. I homered in his third consecu-right knee this winter, Yankees The right-hander reached 97 corral. The ball squirted into didn’t do my job today. I’m irri-tive opener. starter CC Sabathia gave up six mph on the radar gun in the center for a base hit. Sabathia tated with myself because of Jackson, coming off a strong hits and three runs — two first, but walked Teixeira and walked the bases loaded before it.” rookie season, struck out three earned — in six innings. Alex Rodriguez before striking Peralta flied out. 
Third baseman Brandon Inge, times in the leadoff spot. He Making his third opening day out Robinson Cano with his “We did center some balls normally a reliable fielder, also singled and scored. start in three seasons with New 31st pitch of the inning. pretty good off CC, especially committed a costly throwing Coke (0-1) was brought in to York, Sabathia struck out seven Verlander gave up just two early,” Leyland said. “We didn’t error, and a pair of wild pitches face Granderson in a lefty-on-and walked two. other hits, including have a lot of luck with it.” by young relievers Ryan Perry lefty matchup to start the bot-Joba Chamberlain (1-0), Rodriguez’s one-out double in Detroit closed to 3-2 on Inge’s and Daniel Schlereth led to tom of the seventh. Coke fell Rafael Soriano and Rivera each the sixth that hit the fence in two-out single in the fourth and insurance runs for New York. behind 2-0 and Granderson pitched a perfect inning. right-center just above the 385-tied it on Cabrera’s sacrifice fly 
Victor Martinez singled in his drove the next pitch into the “We’ve got to score early in foot marker. He walked Cano, in the fifth. 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
ITALIANATE-STYLE NINETEENTH  If you or someone you care about  
FOR SALE  CENTURY ARCHITECTURE. WIDE PROJECTING EAVES;  17702 Douglas Rd South Bend  NOTICES  has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit  

 ORNATE BRACKETING. CON- Notre Dame s website:  
Home in Clay Twship-less than 3mi  STRUCTION NOT COMPLETE  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  http://csap.nd.edu  
to ND.  OFFERING NEW OWNER MANY  Newly Renovated 3 Bed/2 Full Bath  ———————————————  “Ever wonder what people got  
CHOICES. 4 BLOCKS FROM  Don't go it alone.  Jesus for Christmas? It's like 'Oh  
$75K. 2BR 1BA.  CAMPUS. DREAM KITCHEN, 10' CEILINGS, HARDWOOD FLOORS,  2,312 SF 2 Ponds Creek Lots of  Notre Dame has many resources in  WANTED  great, socks. You know I'm dying for your sins right? Yeah, but thanks for  
Double lot, privacy fence, 30x30  3 BEDROOMS, 2-1/2 BATHS.  Parking Walk to Campus  place to assist you. If you or some- 
 the SOCKS. They'll go great with  
pole barn, 6 person hot-tub, nice  MASTER SUITE W/BALCONY.  one you love needs confidential  Earn Extra Money Students needed  my sandals. What am I, German?”  
deck and firepit. Wood heat. New  LOWER LEVEL FAMILY ROOM  50+ Photos on web  support or assistance, please call  ASAP. Earn up to $150 per day  
furnace and water heater. Low  W/2 EGRESS WINDOWS, FULL  Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more  being a Mystery Shopper. No  
taxes.  BATH. CALL Kim Kollar, Weichert,  information, visit ND's website at:  Experience Required. Call 1-888­ 
Call 574-261-2357  Realtors, 574-274-7440  17702douglas.com 574-876-8596  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  534-5008  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Friday, April 1, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
whatever it took to win.” They face Providence in said. “When we play Notre er Saturday at 12 and 2 p.m. 
Winters managed to ice three Big East conference Dame softball, we play our as well as Sunday at 11 a.m. the Boilermakers in the top games this weekend. best. We ’re going to give in Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Clay 
continued from page 20 
turned with Johnson’s four-run homer that put the Irish up 7-2, but it wasn’t over until the final strikeout. Purdue had rallied again in the seventh inning to draw within two runs, and with two runners on base and only one out, things looked far from done. 
“To be honest, we were very calm [during Purdue’s rallies], ” Maldonado said. “We were confident in our batters the whole game and knew that we would do of the seventh, ending the game with a score of 7-5. She logged a career-high 12 strikeouts in a crucial non-conference game. Irish bat­ters struck out only twice. 
“After the last out we were both relieved and excited,” Maldonado said. “Purdue was a very good team, but we managed to hold them for the majority of the game.” 
This victory was a much-needed boost for the Irish after a tough loss to a tal­ented Western Michigan team earlier in the week. 



“We’re looking to continue  Providence our best games.”  
getting better every day and  T h e  I r i s h  w i l l  m e e t  Contact Jack Yusko at  
play  our  game,” Maldonado  Providence in  a  doublehead­ jyusko@nd.edu  

SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles begin conference season 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
When the Belles travel to perennial powerhouse Alma for their first conference game of the season this weekend, they hope to bring along their hot streak at the plate. 


Saint Mary’s (10-3) will enter the game coming off a double­header in which they took both games from Manchester, but Alma (17-2) has been even hot­ter recently. The team currently rides a ten-game win streak. 
Alma’s success at this point in the season is typical for a team that has not finished lower than third in the conference rankings in over 25 years, and has quali­fied for 14 of the last 16 NCAA tournaments. 
“They are always tough com­petition. They are a smart ball club,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. “They are defi­nitely going to be a challenge for us.” 
The Scots are the Belles’ first MIAA opponent of the year, but the St. Mary’s players and coaches do not see any need to overemphasize the importance of their conference opener. 
“We want to make sure that we are playing each game real­ly well, from start to finish — that it is just a good day,” Sullivan said. “That does not always result in wins and loss­es. I think it is just that we want to come out strong and at least play very well.” 
Senior captain and outfielder Hayley Bojorquez echoed her coach’s sentiment, but said it would be a welcome accom­plishment if the Belles could capture at least one of the deci­sions. 
“It is kind of crazy that we are playing them so early, but I think as long as we compete and we play our game, if we end up losing by one, but we gave our all — that is all we can ask for,” she said. “They are definitely going to be two really good games. So as long as we play our game, we should defi­nitely come out with at least one win, I‘m sure.” 

If the Belles can challenge Alma, it will be due to a suc­cessful day from behind the plate. In their two most recent outings, Saint Mary’s scored a combined 22 runs as the team displayed its offensive firepow­er. Bojorquez said that her team’s depth on the offensive side is a valuable tool. 
“We just have to maintain our confidence and know our strengths, because we are such a great hitting team,” Bojorquez said. “We know that one through nine in our lineup, we are all capable of putting the ball in play, so as long as we maintain our confidence, we will be okay.” 
Despite their impressive record thus far, in a number of games this season the Belles have fallen behind early, forcing them to play catch-up. Their tendency to start slowly repre­sents an unwelcome trend the Belles hope to reverse. 
“We want to start out a little bit stronger so that we do not have to come back from the bottom, but maintain the confi­dence in ourselves that we can come back from the bottom if we need to,” Bojorquez said. 
As they try to show improve­ment and play an entire game of good ball, Saint Mary’s will also have to contend with the rigors of traveling to an away game. Sullivan said she hopes her team can display the mental toughness needed to put forth a strong performance. 
“[We need to] have confidence when we go up there,” she said. “It is a long ride so we want to make sure that we are pre­pared for a long trip and we are ready to go when we get off the bus.” 
The Belles will get two shots at taking a game from Alma Saturday, with the first pitch slated for 2 p.m. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 1, 2011 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish face non-conference 
its last decision against Portland, while IUPUI defeated South Dakota State in its last match. 
“All three are quality teams,” Sachire said. “SMU is one of the top 50 or so teams in the coun­try.” 
Notre Dame, meanwhile, has been playing some of its best tennis lately, winning four of its last five, including a win over Illinois, a top-10 program. 
“We’re in high spirits after our wins,” Sachire said. “It would be great to go 3-0 this weekend.” 
After this weekend, the Irish will have only two matches remaining during the regular season, despite the Big East championships being four weeks away. As Sachire noted, the extra time will give Notre Dame a chance to shift their focus. 
“The way the schedule is built, we’ve played a lot of matches,” Sachire said. “After this, we will focus on player development. When you com­pete a lot, you lose some sharp­ness because you’re focusing on competition and not on skill development. We’ll have a chance to train and practice and improve our skills.” 
The next Irish match will not take place until April 13, nearly two weeks away, when Notre Dame travels to Columbus, Ohio to play Ohio State. 
The Irish will face Ball State in Muncie, Ind. at 2 p.m. Saturday and travel home to play SMU and IUPUI Sunday at 1 p.m. and 6 p.m., respectively at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Belleshopetocomeout ontopofclosematches 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s is counting on their hard work paying off this weekend when they face Trine and North Central at home. 
The Belles (5-5, 0-1) were bested Tuesday in the confer­ence opener by visiting Albion, 7-2. Despite the mar­gin, most of the matches were very close. This was especial­ly true on the singles side, where Saint Mary’s forced a third set or tiebreaker in four of five losses. That effort was not enough to beat the Britons (5-1), but Belles coach Dale Campbell said his play­ers would stay confident and be aggressive going forward. 
“We have to stay assertive, and remain especially offen­sive in doubles. We have dis­cussed that we have to play every match to win. We can’t win playing defensively. It serves us no purpose in any of our matches. The best teams play offensively,” Campbell said. 
The Belles offensive will take on Trine Saturday, a con­ference matchup they have fared well in in the past. Saint Mary’s has swept the Thunder (3-6) 9-0 in each of their past two meetings. Trine’s main strength is the top of its dou­bles lineup. Their first two pairings are 8-4 on the year. While doubles play has been a point of emphasis for Campbell all year, he doesn’t believe that the Belles will need to change their methods. 

“We don’t typically need to adjust to our opponents. We need to play our game, do the plays we know how to execute and play the high percentage shots,” Campbell said. 
While it is still early in the campaign and the MIAA tour­nament is still almost a month away, getting the first win in the conference is a big step in any season. Campbell knows that every conference game counts, and not just for the Belles’ record. 
“It is very important for conference tournament seed­ing, and simply the pride in beating a conference oppo­nent,” Campbell said. “This is why we play — to be a part of the rivalries and to succeed.” 
After playing Trine, Saint Mary’s will have a short turn­around before they face North Central in a non-conference matchup. The Belles beat the Cardinals (10-3) last year as well, but in a slim 5-4 deci­sion. Despite that victory, Campbell believes that his squad will need another strong showing to win again. 
“They had a very balanced lineup, and gave us a battle last year. They have a lot of depth on their team and I expect a great match,” Campbell said. 
The Belles weekend home stand will kick off against the Thunder at 1 p.m. Sunday’s match against North Central will also start at 1 p.m. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 


By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
With the regular season slate winding down, each match takes on added importance for the Irish, who will play three solid opponents in a span of two days this weekend. 
No. 23 Notre Dame (12-8) will take on three non-conference opponents this weekend — Ball State (8-7), SMU (13-5) and IUPUI (15-11). 
“Ball State and IUPUI are two teams from less major confer­ences not in a position to get an at-large bid,” Irish associate head coach Ryan Sachire said. “But they are threats to win their conference and make it to the NCAA tournament.” 
SMU, one of the more talent­ed teams in the country, will enter Sunday’s contest with some added rest after Tuesday’s scheduled match against San Diego State was cancelled. Ball State dropped 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Notre Dame excited to host double meets 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
The No. 19 Irish are eager to add two more wins to their record this weekend as they take on No. 44 Long Beach State and No. 32 Texas A&M at home. 
The Irish (9-8) will enter these games after suffering a tough 5-2 loss to Georgia Tech March 24. 
“We have really been focus­ing on our consistency from the baseline which will defi­nitely help us in all of our future matches,” freshman Julie Sabacinski said. 
Sabacinski has attempted to improve her own consistency in singles play and in doubles play with partner and fellow freshman Jennifer Kellner. 
The Irish are eager to show­case their three ranked play­ers, including No. 3 junior Kristy Frilling, No. 63 junior Shannon Matthews and No. 105 freshman Jennifer Kellner. Additionally the Irish are home to the No. 22 doubles team composed of Matthews and Frilling. Frilling enters this weekend with a 13-1 record. 
None of the current mem­bers of the Notre Dame team have faced Long Beach State in their college careers. The last matchup between the teams went to the Irish with a score of 5-2. Long Beach State is coming off a loss against Pepperdine, bringing their sea­son record to 12-4. 
The last time the Irish faced Texas A&M (9-4) was during the 2010 season, when Notre Dame won 4-3. The Aggies will come to South Bend after a comfortable win March 27 against Kansas. The Aggies and the Irish have met eight previous times. Notre Dame leads the series 7-1. 
“We want to be as intense and competitive as possible this weekend,” Sabacinski said. 
In these two matches, Notre Dame will face the Big West Player of the week Klaudia Malenovska from Long Beach State and No. 34 Nazari Urbina from Texas A&M. 
Notre Dame will face off against Long Beach State today at 4 p.m. and Texas A&M Saturday at 1 p.m. Both games will be played at the Eck Tennis Pavilion and will be broadcasted live online. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


Friday, April 1, 2011 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 1, 2011 

WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish hope momentum carries over to Athens 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
The Irish hope to carry the momentum they gained winning the John Kirk Intercollegiate Invitational March 21 and 22 to the 39th Liz Murphey Collegiate Classic Friday in Athens, Ga. 
The tournament, one of the most unique intercollegiate events in the country, is hosted by the University of Georgia and features five top-10 teams in the 23-team field. 
“We’re all really excited about this tournament and being part of one of the best tournament fields of the year,” senior captain Katie Conway said. “It presents a great opportunity for us to pick up wins against many top-ranked schools.” 
Among Notre Dame’s competi­tion are defending champions and third-ranked Alabama, along with No. 4 Duke, No. 5 Purdue, No. 6 LSU and No. 7 Virginia. There are also seven other top-25 teams entered in the tournament. 
Georgia’s course will also pres­ent a challenge for the confident Irish. 
“Coming off a win, we are all feeling confident and more pre­pared as a result for this week,” Conway said. “The University of Georgia’s golf course is one that you need to stay focused on and choose your targets well, because with its large, undulating greens, it is that much more important to position yourself well.” 
This year’s Classic is special and different than years past because it features new playing and scor­ing methods. Traditionally, teams are scored by three golfers from different schools playing together. In this tournament, five players from each team will compete together. Coming off a stellar per­formance for the Irish this week­end will be junior Becca Huffer, who was named the Big East Women’s Golfer of the Week. Seniors So-Hyun Park and Conway will also be competing, and will be joined by freshmen Nicole Zhang and Kristina Nhim. 
“This tournament is different than others because we are all playing together, which will be a first for all of us in our college golf careers,” Conway said. “Playing together presents the opportunity for us to feed off of each other and keep each other up and motivated throughout our rounds.” 
The tournament’s scoring method is atypical as well. The 54-hole, 72-par course features one round of play each day. Typically, the four best scores at the end of each round are count­ed. In this competition, the four best scores from each hole will count towards the final score. 
“The tournament is still being scored the same way for [ranking purposes], but there will be a sep­arate competition taking place to determine who takes home the trophy,” Conway said. 
The Irish tee off today in Athens. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 


Pitching 
continued from page 20 
the Panthers (13-9, 1-2), who have a lineup that includes eight batters with batting averages over .300. 
Pittsburgh senior catcher Kevan Smith leads the ballclub with a .459 average, 34 hits and 5 dou­bles. 
While freshman hurler Anthony McIver is the only scholarship left-hander available off the bench, Aoki said he is not concerned with the absence of a lefty in the week­end rotation. 
“All of them [Dupra, Johnson and Miller] have weapons to han­dle lefthanders,” Aoki said. “They all seem to be able to jump into the zone on a pretty consistent basis. I don’t think it’s going to be an enor­mous issue. When you look at the Big East, there’s not one team that’s just left-handed dominant.” 
Confident that his pitchers are up to the challenge, Aoki said he was especially pleased with their performances earlier in the year against Gonzaga and Coastal Carolina, teams with potent line­ups. The first-year skipper is more concerned with the productivity of his own offense, which showed signs of turning the corner in a 3-2 win over Central Michigan on Tuesday. 
“You just try to go up there offensively and have some quality at-bats,” Aoki said. “You get one pitch every at-bat that you’re going to be able to handle. Hopefully we can put a quality swing on it.” 
Freshman right-hander Dan Slania has been a reliable option out of the bullpen for Aoki, as the rookie picked up his third save of the season in Tuesday’s win. Although Slania has emerged as a go-to arm out of the pen, Aoki said he will consider sophomore right-hander Adam Norton and junior righty Will Hudgins in late game situations as well. 
“I think the way we’ve been doing that is that as the game goes along, you try to play matchups,” Aoki said. “Maybe Norton will give us a pretty good matchup, or Hudgins, or somebody else — it really depends on the type of hit­ter.” 
The Irish take the field in Pittsburgh Friday at 3 p.m., Saturday at 1 p.m. and Sunday at noon. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


Friday, April 1, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Success 
continued from page 20 
guys did a great job cutting and finishing all the feeds I gave them. I did well, but obviously my teammates were a big part of my success.” 
The Irish are coming off what coach Kevin Corrigan called their “most complete game of the season,” which was played against Rutgers Sunday. Rogers said the team has been working on putting together more effi­cient possessions in preparation for the Wildcats (7-2). 
“We definitely want to control [the ball] and have smart and sustained possessions,” he said. “We don’t want to make it easy for their defense by taking shots away. The key for us is to get good looks and take advantage of all the good looks we get.” 
Notre Dame hopes its defen­sive game will carry over from the Rutgers matchup. Irish soph­omore goalie John Kemp said he notices a difference in the Irish defensemen when they play their best defense. Kemp said the Irish need to communicate even more while defending their own goal against the Wildcats. 
“Communication has definitely gotten better, and also [it helps] just that we’re getting further into the season. Playing together, you get used to how everyone talks, and being together almost all the time on the field really helps us prepare for other peo­ple. Familiarity with everyone is kind of what’s helping us,” Kemp said. “Communication on defense and helping each other out will help out the team against Villanova.” 

Villanova (7-2) will travel to South Bend fresh off its second loss of the season, a 5-4 defeat Saturday from No. 1-ranked Syracuse. Wildcat senior defenseman Brian Karalunas was already been named Big East defensive player of the week earlier this season. 
“Offensively, they have basical­ly six attacks who can play at all times. They don’t run any partic­ular sets — they’re more free flowing, hard to guard and dan­gerous,” Rogers said. “They have one of the best defensive players in our league in Brian Karalunas. He gets the ball mul­tiple times in the game, and the rest of the defense is very aggressive.” 
Kemp said he agreed the Wildcats have a lot of depth on their roster. 
“Villanova is kind of a team that, I don’t want to say doesn’t have a lot of talent, but has good players who play well together,” he said. “We’ve started prepar­ing for what they do and how they run their offense, and they don’t really have one guy who can do it all. They all work together. They have a lot of guys who can put it in the net. They’re a good all-around team.” 
Although the Irish remain undefeated and recently moved up in the rankings, the team remains humble and is not get­ting too comfortable with its record just yet. 
“You want to have confidence, and you get it from beating other teams. That’s the mentality you want to have,” Kemp said. “You don’t want to be too confident, though. With a high ranking it’s easy to kind of forget the other talent that’s out there. You don’t want to overlook teams on your schedule, especially going into league play. We take everything week by week.” 
Now that the Irish are halfway through their season, Corrigan continues to emphasize the goal the Irish made at the beginning of the season — to win a national championship, Kemp said. 
“The latter part of our sched­ule is tougher, and getting into Big East play and [doing well] will jumpstart us going into the postseason,” Kemp said. “[Coach said], ‘Keep it up and play hard,’ and he knows that we’ll just keep doing it.” 
The Irish will look for their seventh win when face off against Villanova Saturday at 1 
p.m. at Arlotta Stadium. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 

Usher 
continued from page 20 
tournament just two weeks away and a championship in sight, the team is focused on the remaining rounds left to play. 
“We’ve tried all year not to get caught up in rankings and results,” Kubinski said. “We obviously have set the Big East as a goal, and we have goals beyond the conference tourna­ment. But we have to concen­trate on what we’re doing this week in Louisiana and keep on getting better.” 

The Irish take to the links Saturday at the Collegiate Club in Baton Rouge. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
Blaney 
continued from page 20 

Senior midfielder Shaylyn Blaney leads Notre Dame with 18 draw controls, including five against Hofstra. Blaney, along with senior captain defender Jackie Doherty, will help give the Irish an advantage off the draw. 
Controlling the draw will be even more important during Big East play. The conference currently has three top-20 teams, including undefeated Loyola (8-0). 
“It’s a very competitive con­ference. Even the weaker teams from last year have improved,” Coyne said. “We want to be the team we know we can be.” 
The Greyhounds pose a dif­ficult challenge for the strug­gling Irish. Led by reigning Big East Attack Player of the Year senior attack Grace Gavin, Loyola has outscored their eight opponents this year by an average of six goals-per-game. Gavin, the current Big East Offensive Player of the Week, leads the squad in both goals (31) and assists (9). 
“We’re not intimidated by their ranking — we’ve played a tough schedule so far,” Coyne said of a schedule that has featured No. 2 Northwestern and No. 11 Stanford. “Even though we’re struggling right now, we are a very competitive team.” 
Junior attack Maggie Tamasitis is second in the Big East with 18 assists and will also carry a 26-game point streak into the weekend. Sophomore midfielder Jenny Granger has scored a team-high 14 goals. 
The Irish open conference play against Rutgers Friday at 7 p.m. and finish the week­end against Loyola Sunday at 1 p.m. Both games are in Arlotta Stadium. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 1, 2011 
MEN’S & WOMEN’S TRACK & FIELD 
Irish set for Mike Poehlein 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish got over their opening season nerves last weekend and now will focus on inching toward the June nationals, starting with the Mike Poehlein Invitational in West Lafayette, Ind. this weekend. 
“Now that some of us have gotten our first meet out of the way, we have a start­

ing block to “Last weekend, there was build from,” 
a lot to learn. I think it’s 
senior 

thrower fair to say that we all 
Rudy Atang individually foundsaid, who 
aspects in our
took third 

place performance, whether 
Saturday in good or bad, that we can Arizona 
improve on.” 
when she threw 15.69 meters in Rudy Atang the shot-put senior Irish thrower 
event. 
Two Irish athletes received awards last weekend. Sophomore Jeremy Rae was named the Big East Men’s Outdoor Track Athlete of the Week and junior pole-vaulter Kevin Schipper was named the Big East Men’s Field Athlete of the Week. 
“It’s not as cut and dry as indoors where there’s a set standard to qualify for nationals,” Rae said. 
Rae finished second in the 1,500 -meter race at the Stanford Invitational last weekend in 3:44.09, marking a personal best and the cur­rent best collegiate time in the country. He was 0.32 seconds ahead of UTEP ’s Elkana Rotich. 
Schipper finished first in the pole -vaulting event at the Arizona State Invitational with his 5.20­meter clearing, the best 
height in the conference and the fourth -best in the nation. 
“We do keep in mind that some of us will be racing through June, so how we do in March does­n’t have too much impact 
on our sea ­
son as a whole,” Rae said. 
While these early meets may not have as much direct impact in terms of team records, they provide oppor­tunities for athletes to obtain qualifying positions. 
Sophomore middle -dis ­tance runner Rebecca Tracy joined Rae and Schipper as probable qualifiers as well, finishing in 4:22.78 to take 10th place in the first sec­tion at the Stanford Invitational. 
“We hope to continue on from Stanford and improve 
on what we have already accomplished,” Tracy said. “We may move some people around and try them in dif­ferent events than they ran indoors as well, based on last weekend’s performanc­es.” 
Other successful perform­ers expected to carry over their streak from last week­end include senior Justin Schneider, who took second in the decathlon at the Alabama Relays with 6,909 points and junior Maddie Buttinger, who finished third in the pentathlon with 3,035 points. 
“Last weekend, there was a lot to learn. I think it’s fair to say that we all individual­ly found aspects in our per­formances, whether good or bad, that we can improve on,” Atang said. 
The Mike Poehlein Invitational kicks off Friday, April 1 at 3 p.m. with the hammer throw, the only event of the day. The meet continues Saturday at 10 
a.m. with the discus throw and javelin. The women’s 10,000-meter running event will begin at 11 a.m. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 




Friday, April 1, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 



PLEASANDV LLE JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
JUMBLE JEFF KNUREK 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Friday, April 1, 2011 page 20 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Still perfect 
Rogers continues to lead 
team on offense, relies on  
teammates for assistance  
By MEGAN GOLDEN  
Sports Writer  
As the No. 2 Irish enter the second half  
of the regular season, they are focusing  
on winning one game at a time, starting  
with a victory over No. 8 Villanova  
Saturday.  
Big East offensive player of the week  
Sean Rogers will lead the Irish (6-0) in  
pursuit of this goal. The junior attack  
recorded four goals and three assists in  
his past two games against Ohio State (5­ 
4) and Rutgers (5-3), and credited his  
teammates for his success.  
“All my individual success comes from  
my teammates getting me in the right  
spots and getting me the ball. As far as  
my goals, all of the credit goes to [my  
teammates] — most of my goals are  
assisted,” Rogers said. “In the last two  
games, we knew what to look for, and  Senior midfielder Zach Brenneman advances the ball in an 8-7  GRANT TOBIN/The Observer Irish win against  
see SUCCESS/page 17  Ohio State March 23. The Irish host Villanova Saturday at 1 p.m.  

ND SOFTBALL 

Johnson’s grand slam secures win over Purdue 
over Purdue. defeated Purdue (19-8) at inning, giving us the
By JACK YUSKO 

“The turning point in the home despite two major chance to jump head. I led
Sports Writer 

game was definitely Boilermaker rallies coming off the game with a single 
Heather ’s grand slam, ” during the fifth and sev-and was able to score on 
The bases were loaded, junior outfielder Alexa enth innings. The Irish [senior catcher] Lex Clay’s there were two outs and Maldonado said. “It gave defense started the game opposite field homerun,” Purdue was mounting a Laura [Winter] and the strong, allowing the Maldonado. “Lex’s home-sixth -inning comeback rest of the team some offense to gain the lead run was the start to our Thursday when Irish sen-breathing room. They were and hold it instead of hav-win — everything just ior captain Heather a good hitting team, so we ing to regain lost ground. rolled on from there.” Johnson hit a grand slam knew we would need more “[Freshman pitcher] The game may have out of the park to secure a runs to secure the win.” Laura Winters started the 7-5 Notre Dame victory Notre Dame (18 -7) game with a scoreless first see CLAY/page 13 
MEN’S GOLF 

Irish travel to Louisiana for tourney 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
After finishing 12th of 15 in the country at last weekend’s Schenkel Invitational, the Irish will try to rebound this weekend at the University Club Intercollegiate tour­nament in Baton Rouge, La. 
The Intercollegiate will feature a variety of teams from the Big East, Big Ten and ACC, including VCU, Boston College and Iowa. 
“With so many different teams from so many different conferences here it should be a lot of fun,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “This should be a bounce-back weekend for us after Schenkel. We have to get back to the level we were at in the fall.” 
Inconsistency has been a problem for the Irish, who are still getting used to playing outside after a winter indoors. 
“Sure it’s nice to have an indoor facility, but we really have to get used to being outside,” Kubinski said. “We’re much too inconsistent right now.” 
One constant in the Irish lineup has been junior Tom Usher, the recently crowned Big East golfer of the week. Usher finished 20th over­all at the Schenkel Invitational with a two-over-par three-day score. 
“Tom is our most consistent golfer. We can always count on him to be around or under par round in and round out,” Kubinksi said. “He’s really a leader of this team.” 
Usher finished second individually at the Big East championships last year and also led the team to a run­ner-up finish. Now with the Big East 

see USHER/page 17 
BASEBALL 

Irish travel to face Pittsburgh 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Along with several Major League teams taking the field for the first time at home, Pittsburgh welcomes Notre Dame in its con­ference home opener Friday. The Panthers will be looking for their first Big East win at Charles L. Cost Field, while the Irish hope to christen the facility with a loss on the strength of their pitchers. 
“Pitching is always going to be a big deal,” Irish coach Mik Aoki said. “The pitching staff has been solid all year long. [The players] pitch to their strengths. We’re lucky to have three seniors who can step up to the challenge.” 
Aoki will hand the ball to his trio of senior right-handers Brian Dupra, Cole Johnson and Todd Miller. The three starters have logged 16 quality starts and have propelled Notre Dame (10-12-1, 2­1 Big East) to second in the confer­ence with a team ERA of 2.68. 
But the staff should face its toughest test of the season against 
see PITCHING/page 16 


WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Coyne hopeful for second half of season 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will open the sec­ond half of their season and the beginning of Big East con­ference play this weekend with a game against Rutgers tonight and a match against No. 4 Loyola Sunday. 
“This is a chance for a fresh start to the second half of the season,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. “I don’t want players to carry frustration from the first half of the sea­son.” 
The Irish (3 -5) have dropped two consecutive thrillers, one in double-over­time to Cornell, the other in the final seconds against Hofstra. Notre Dame is now 0-3 in one-goal games and their five losses have come by a combined 11 goals. 
While the recent losses have been disappointing, Coyne still finds positives in them. 

“Knowing that we were up late in the game gave us some confidence,” Coyne said. “[The Hofstra game] also gave us an opportunity to work on late game situations in prac­tice.” 
Rutgers (6-3, 1-1 Big East) will march into Arlotta Stadium on the heels of an 11-7 loss to Syracuse. Senior midfielder Marlena Welsh and junior midfielder Ali Steinberg, who have com ­bined for 37 goals and nine assists, will lead the team. 
Last season, the Irish dropped a 12 -11 overtime decision to the Scarlet Knights. 
“We have unfinished busi­ness [with Rutgers],” Coyne said. “We need to be tactically smarter and do a great job off the draw.” 
see BLANEY/page 17 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 1, 2011 
COMMENTARY 

Swagger sets ND apart in Final Four 
Connecticut. Stanford. Baylor. Tennessee. 
Prior to the NCAA tourna­ment, President Barack Obama picked those four No. 1 seeds to reach the Final Four, and you really can’t blame him. (He also picked Duke, Kansas, Ohio State and Pittsburgh on the men’s side, but that’s a separate issue). 
But, of course, he picked wrong. 
Led by coach Geno Auriemma, the Huskies are the two-time defending national champions and fea­ture the best all-around player in the country in sen­ior guard Maya Moore. They’re going to Indianapolis. 
The Cardinal are the only team in the 



By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 

Muffet McGraw and Niele Ivey finally beat Tennessee, and the Irish brought their his­toric jig to Dayton, Ohio, Monday night after a 73-59 victory over the No. 4 Lady Vols. 
The Irish haven’t had the opportunity to perform that jig in the Final Four since 10 years ago, when McGraw was coaching Ivey, and the team fought its way to win the National Championship. 
Notre Dame will face Connecticut for the fourth time this season, an opportunity it hoped for. 
“I think in the back of our minds, we were rooting for Connecticut,” junior guard Natalie Novosel said. “Especially because [it is] another team in the Big East but also because they have beat us every single time this year, and we’ve been on kind of a vengeance run this year … 
with  Oklahoma,  and  then  
we’ve  never  beaten  
Tennessee.”  

The Irish have gone beyond the expectations of everyone but themselves this season, especially in the NCAA tourna­ment. Entering the season, numerous reports called the team too young, too inexperi­enced and too unprepared. 
“I think we have great momentum. I think we have the fighter mentality,” McGraw said. “We’re the underdogs, going into the game loose again. I think it’s been very rewarding for them to see their hard work come to fruition.” 
The Irish entered the tourna­ment with a record of 26-7, beginning their journey in Salt Lake City as a No. 2 seed tak­ing on No. 15 Utah. Senior guard Brittany Mallory didn’t score a single point but was the key to the win with her strong defense. She didn’t need to score — she just need­ed to stop Utes guard Iwalani Rorigues from doing so. Her fellow guards, sophomore Skylar Diggins and junior Natalie Novosel, made sure to keep the points coming with 20 apiece on the way to a 67-54 Irish win. 
McGraw knew the win was­n’t easy, though. 
“I think the 10 days off, trav­eling, playing on somebody’s home court, they’re an under­dog with crowd support com­ing off a huge tournament win. That was just a tough first matchup,” she said. “You have the pressure of being a two-seed, you’re supposed to win. Coming into the tournament we were not really at the top of our game. I think each game, we look a little more in rhythm and I think we’re just starting to really peak right now.” 
Novosel and Peters kept the tempo going against Temple in game two in Salt Lake City. Novosel put up 17 points while Peters earned her ninth career double-double, and then some. She came out with 17 points, 12 rebounds, three assists, two steals and two blocks. 
But the offense didn’t win it all. The defense came out with 19 turnovers on the night and never allowed the Owls to get closer than within five points. 
Game three was a similar story, with the Irish taking control on both ends of the court as they defeated No. 6 Oklahoma 78-53. Notre Dame has a history of overtime games in the last four years in the NCAA tournament, but the only drama coming out of this game was Bruszewski exiting play early with a twisted knee 
— then returning, with a twist­ed knee. 
Her fellow captain, Mallory, made up for the loss with a season-high 20 points, a strong recovery from the shooting slump she’d been suffering. Novosel chipped in 15, Peters 17 and 13 rebounds while Diggins had 12 assists. 
The intensity continued against Tennessee, when Notre Dame snapped an 0-20 streak against the Lady Vols. 
Leading the Irish on Monday was Diggins. She finished with 24 points while Bruszewski fought the pain to play 37 min­utes for 13 points and a team-high eight rebounds, showing the intensity she knows will earn them another win. 

“I would say the intensity still, at the same level, if not higher. It’s all out, it could potentially be our last game, so we’re going to give it our all like it’s our last game,” Bruszewski said. 
But for her, Sunday’s game is another extension of her sen­ior season. 
“Amazing,” she said. “Just because I don’t want my senior season to end and no one else does either, so we’re going to go as far as we can.” 
The Irish are facing a six-player rotation in the Huskies, but they aren’t letting their guard down. 
“I don’t think it’s a huge dis­advantage to only have six players. I think the team has great chemistry,” McGraw said. “Our championship team in 2001, we played six people. ... If you can stay out of foul trouble, it’s really not as much of a disadvantage as people may think.” 
Especially when Connecticut has the incredibly talented Maya Moore, a player Notre Dame has not been able to stop yet. 
“I’m not sure that you can stop her. And definitely you can’t do it with one person. She is just a phenomenal play­er,” McGraw said. “She’s incredibly difficult to guard. I don’t think we’ve gone into any of the three games thinking we would hold her down.” 
But Bruszewski agrees with her coach in another impor­tant aspect, that this team is just hitting its peak. 
“There’s no better time than the end of the season to reach your peak, and that’s when you want to be playing your best basketball: at the end, like we are,” she said. 
The Irish will take on the Huskies for a fourth time, hop­ing that this one’s the charm, Sunday at the Conseco Fieldhouse in Indianapolis at 
9:30 p.m. in the semifinals of the NCAA tournament. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 

Auriemma’s players 
country to player after she beat may be the only ones body-slammed Connecticut her into the 
left in the tournament 
in the last baseline. 
who have experience
three sea-Sophomore sons (once in a national title. But guard Skylar the Final Diggins hitting a
McGraw’s could be 
Four in 2008 3-pointer with a
the only ones in the
and again hand in her face during the country who want it to quiet any 
Bristol will frame the Final Four as the unlikely pairings of Notre Dame and Connecticut, Stanford and Texas A&M. Who could have imagined a pair of No. 2 seeds making it so close to the title game? 
But this isn’t a Cinderella story. Notre Dame and Texas A&M punched their tickets to Indy because they outplayed the favorites. But they were also more talented. 
“We didn’t feel like under­dogs. We went in expecting to win,” Irish senior and leading scorer Natalie Novosel said after Notre Dame took down Tennessee 73-59 Monday. 
She couldn’t be more right. 
The only way you beat a program like Tennessee is with swagger, the kind that Irish senior forward Devereaux Peters had when she finished an alley-oop layup on a Skylar Diggins pass Monday. 
The kind that senior for­ward Becca Bruszewski 
showed by get­
ting a technical 
foul for brushing 
off a Tennessee 

2011 regular more. season). They’re going to Indianapolis. 
The Bears have Brittney Griner, a 6’8” sophomore and probably the only female forward in the nation who can dunk a bas­ketball. They lost to Texas A&M in the Elite Eight. They’re going home. 
Tennessee’s Pat Summitt is the all-time winningest coach in NCAA basketball, men’s or women’s. She also has the best glare in the game. For the first time in 21 meetings, the Lady Volunteers lost to Notre Dame. They’re going home. 
The television networks will do their annual rain dance in the hopes of a Connecticut-Stanford rematch for the national title. ESPN’s Rebecca Lobo will compare the all-around greatness of Moore to the all-around greatness of for­mer Huskies’ star Diana Taurasi. 
A color analyst may even drop a “How exciting would it have been if Tennessee played Connecticut for a trip to the national championship game on the line? The two most storied programs in women’s basketball haven’t met since 2007, but now…” 
Worst of all, someone in Tennessee hopes 
of a comeback — 
swagger. 
Don’t forget 
about Muffet 
McGraw. She made all the right moves Monday night, including a gutsy decision to play Peters with four fouls and more than six minutes remaining in the game. 
The Irish played angry Monday night, angry because they knew the rest of the nation, even the President, didn’t think they could make it to this week­end. 
After Connecticut’s 75-40 win over Duke in the Elite Eight on Tuesday, Auriemma said, “There’s only a couple kids in America that are playing next weekend that know how to win a national championship, and I’m fortu­nate enough to have them on my team.” 
True, Auriemma’s players may be the only ones left in the tournament who have experienced a national title. But McGraw’s could be the only ones in the country who want it more. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

For Irish, all roads lead to UConn 

Friday, April 1, 2011 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Getting to the point 
Ivey lends experience to Skylar Diggins, Notre Dame as team prepares for national semifinals 
best place in the world for Ivey and Diggins analyzed 
By LAURA MYERS 

me,” Ivey said. film nearly every day, and 
Senior Sports Writer 

That reason was to help the worked on adjusting the high team compete for national school star to the college 
It was 2001, and Notre championships. And to game. Diggins ’ biggest Dame’s point guard had just recruit Skylar Diggins. improvement came in the scored 21 points to lead her “I was trying to prep for my weight room, Ivey said, as team in a 90-75 victory over interview, and people told she worked to get stronger. No. 1 Connecticut in the me, ‘You need to get Skylar The results were remark-national semifinals. Diggins,’“ Ivey said. “I had no able: Diggins became a 
Notre Dame’s future point experience at the assistant starter just five games into guard, all of 10 years old, coaching level or as a recruit-her career, and led the team was rooting for her home-ing coach.” in scoring (13.8 ppg), steals town team to win it all. But the Washington High (2.6 spg) and assists (3.2 
Even then, Skylar Diggins School superstar was more apg). admired Niele Ivey. than receptive to Ivey as a But the relationship extend­
“She was awesome at dis-potential coach. ed beyond basketball. tributing the ball to her “She called me all the When Ivey was at Notre teammates but she could also time,” Ivey said. “We devel-Dame, then-assistant coach score,” Diggins oped a rela -Coquese Washington served said. “She just tionship dur-as her mentor in every aspect put herself in a ing the of campus life. Ivey has 
recruiting . played the same role for 
position for her “They look at me and 
team to score, She’d come up Diggins. She was there for 
say, ‘She’s been 
whether it was to campus, any problem the freshman her shot or get-where I want to go.’” we’d go out to might have had, from tough ting a shot for eat.” classes to boyfriend issues. others.” That rela -“She ’s basically like my 
Niele Ivey 
In her senior tionship was a daughter,” Ivey said. “I’ m
Irish assistant coach 
season, Ivey was a first-team all- m a j o r f a c t o r i n D i g g i n s ’  always worrying about her, about the court, about the  
B i g E a s t a n d a t h i r d -t e a m A l l - d e c i s i o n t o join the Irish  classroom. … We know each o t h e r i n s i d e a n d o u t .  
America selection. She  aver- despite  an  offer from histori- W h e n e v e r  s h e  i s  g o i n g  
a g e d 1 2 . 1 p o i n t s a n d 6 . 9 assists per game. She was a freshman when  cal powerhouse Stanford. “It made it more attractive to Skylar to know she’d be  through things she goes m e , a n d I ’ m h a p p y t o there for her.”  to b e  
Notre Dame played in its first F i n a l F o u r, i n 1 9 9 7 . S h e  able to play and learn from Niele,” McGraw said.  I t  w a s  2 0 1 0 ,  a n d  N o t r e  
starred in its next Final Four.  D a m e ’s  N o .  2  g u a r d  h a d  
S h e g r a d u a t ed f r o m N o t r e Dame a champion. Now a new roster of Irish  I t w a s 2 0 0 9 , a n d N o t r e Da me ’s futu re point guard w a s beg i n n i n g h e r c oll e g e  become Notre Dame’s point guard, with guidance from one who’d been there before.  
p l a y e r s , n o n e m o r e t h a n Diggins, look to Ivey for guid­ance.  career. Notre Dame’s guards co a c h w as t h e re fo r ev e r y step of it.  “[Ivey] helped me through two transitions, the one from high school to college and the  
“The look at me and say, ‘She’s been where I want to  Diggins played at the No. 2 guard position behind senior  one from two-guard to point guard,” Diggins said. SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer  
go,’ ” Ivey said.  p o i n t g u a r d M e l i s s a Lechlitner, and adjusted to  When Diggins struggled to Sophomore point guard Skylar Diggins puts the ball up during Notre learn the details early in the Dame’s 67-54 win over Utah March 19.  
I t  w a s  2 0 0 7 ,  a n d  N o t r e  college life while becoming  season, Ivey  was  right there  
Dame coach Muffet McGraw  one of the most accomplished  to teach.  games and Ivey’s games  to  same. We have the same pas- 
had just called her champi­onship point guard to offer her a position as an assistant coach.  freshmen in Notre Dame his­tory. “[Niele has] been her men­tor. I think she has done a  “You could tell in the first couple games she hadn’t got-t e n i n t o h e r g r o o v e y e t understanding how to run a  mold and improve the new point guard. They’ve watched Ivey’s 21­poi n t pe r forman ce against  sion.” It’s 2011, and Notre Dame’s current point guard is ready  
Notre Dame’s future point guard was 16 years old and l i g h t i n g u p I n d i a n a h i g h school basketball.  fantastic job of helping her in every way,” McGraw said. “At practice, off the court watch­ing film, just talking about  team,” Ivey said. “And I think that’s where I came in. I’ve been a point guard my whole life, a point guard on a cham- C o n n e c t i c u t o n M a r c h 3 0 , 2001, several times. The last time was before the Big East championship game.  to lead her team against No. 1 Connecticut in the national semifinals. Notre Dame’s former point  
“ W h e n  C o a c h  M c G r a w  leadership. She’s really, real­ pionship team.”  “I think I’m going to have to  g u a r d ,  1 0  y e a r s  r e m o v e d  
called me, I told my family there had to be a reason for  ly been the guiding force for S k y l a r s i n c e s h e c a m e o n  The two continued to watch fi lm t o ge th er n earl y e ve ry  return to that and they executed,”  see  how  from school, is rooting for her h o m e t o w n  
me  to  come  back here to the  campus.”  day, picking apart Diggins’  Diggins said.  team to win it  
U n d e r  I v e y ’s  all.  
g u i d a n c e , D i g g i n s h a s b e g u n t o p l a y  “She’s helping me run this team like she ran  A n d N i e l e I v e y a d m i r e s Skylar Diggins.  
like the player she’d looked up t o a l l t h o s e years before.  it when they won the national championship.”  “ H e r m i d -range game is s o m e t h i n g t h a t ’s d e v e l - 
“ P e o ple  e ven  o p e d  a s  a  
say we have the sam e ponytail. We mimic each  Skylar Diggins sophomore point guard  s o p h o m o r e . A n d t h a t ’s s o m e t h i n g I  
o t h e r  a  l o t , ”  wish I’d had,”  
Ivey said. “The  Ivey said. “She  
only difference  has it all.”  
is she’s left-handed and I’m  In her sophomore season,  
right-handed.”  Skylar Diggins  was  a  first- 
T h e  c o m p l e t e  t r a n s i t i o n  team all-Big East and a third  
was  no  more  evident than in  team All-America selection.  
t h e  r e g i o n a l  r o u n d  o f  t h e  She averages 14.4 points and  
NCAA  tournament.  Diggins  4.8 assists per game.  
d i s t r ib u te s t he b all  to  h e r  She has just a bit further to  
teammates, but she  can  also  go to imitate her role model,  
score.  her “mom,” her coach, her  
Against Oklahoma Saturday,  friend.  
Diggins broke Notre Dame’s  “She’s helping  me  run  this  
N C A A  t o u r n a m e n t  r e c o r d  t e a m  l i k e s h e  r a n  i t w h e n  
w i t h  1 2  a s s i s t s .  A g a i n s t  they  won  the national cham- 
Te n n e s s e e  M o n d a y,  s h e  pionship,” Diggins said. “I’m  
scored 24 points. In doing so,  trying to follow in her foot- 
she became the only sopho­ steps and do the  same  thing  
more  in Notre Dame history  this weekend, and then hope- 
t o  s c o r e  m o r e  t h a n  1 , 0 0 0  fully we can continue that for  
points in  a  season.  Her total  the next couple years.”  
GRANT TOBIN/The Observer  is now at 1,016.  
Assistant coach Niele Ivey and Notre Dame’s 73-59 win over Te sophomore point guard Skylar Dnnessee Monday. Diggins scored  iggins have a discussion during 24 points in the game.  “ H e r d e s i r e t o w i n , h e r competitiveness, we’re the  Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu  


page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 1, 2011 
What they Record-breaking wins, deva 
It also included three losses by Lechlitner, and senior guard 
By LAURA MYERS 

to ranked teams, starting with Brittany Mallory, senior for-
Senior Sports Writer 

an 86-83 loss in double over-ward Devereaux Peters and 
said 
time to No. 15 UCLA and an 81-junior guard Natalie Novosel During the first game of Notre 76 loss to No. 9 Kentucky three became regular starters for the Opposing coaches on the power of Dame’s season, the 2001 cham-days later. first time. pionship team presented the “After we lost to Kentucky, we “We had our growing pains 
this season’s Irish current squad with an auto-were 2-2 on the season and I early, which is good for us,” graphed basketball and told the told the team that’s how the ’97 Diggins said. “We were a young team, “Now it’s your turn.” Final Four started out, ” team. A lot of players didn’t 
This year’s captains, seniors McGraw said. “And we didn’t start last year. A lot of people Becca Bruszewski and Brittany lose to ranked teams [in 1997]. just coming in and getting in-Mallory, placed the ball in the But we started out 2-2 and game experience really helped team’s locker room, where it ended up 31-7. “ them out. “ 
“They really are just a has stayed ever since. Four games later, Notre Dame At the start of Big East play, At the time, it just seemed traveled to Texas to play No. 1 the Irish were ranked No. 13. like a nice thing to say, Irish Baylor and lost 76-65. But a turning point came in 
tremendous team and it was an 
coach Muffet McGraw said. “We talked about how close early January, when McGraw But after an up -and -down we were to the No. 1 team on said she realized her team honor to play against them. I season, the Irish are in the their home court, ” McGraw could truly contend. Final Four since the first time said. “We tried to stay posi­think they obviously have some since that 2001 trip. tive.” Connecticut: Jan. 8 “It almost seems like fate,” The Irish then won seven At home against No. 2 McGraw said. straight games leading into Connecticut, the Irish led much 
huge goals ahead of them this 
conference play and won their of the game and lost by a A look at the season that got first conference game against heartbreaking three points in season.” them there: Marquette. the final 30 seconds of play. Notre Dame started the sea-“We saw how close we were 
– New Hampshire coach Maureen Magarity The first half: Nov. 12, 2010 – son uncertain about this year’s playing with the number one Jan. 5, 2011 team after losing starting team in the country,” she said. 
Nov. 12 
Notre Dame began play with a guards Lindsay Schrader, “We saw that a little bit at 99 -48 win over New Melissa Lechlitner and Ashley Baylor. … There were flashes of Hampshire, and ended the first Barlow, all of who had graduat-it early. But the Connecticut half of its season with a 97-21 ed with numerous conference game was the biggest in terms win over Southeast Missouri and national honors. After fin-of confidence boosting.” State in which it broke six ishing the 2009 -10 season In that game, Peters scored school records. ranked No. 7, the Irish were 17 points and had 11 rebounds, 
In between, the team com-No. 12 in the AP preseason one of her 10 double-doubles piled a 13-3 record that includ-poll. this season. Diggins and 
“There is a reason that McGraw 
ed 11 games of 80+ points, and Sophomore guard Skylar Novosel scored 16 each, and five wins by a margin of more Diggins took over the point the teams went into halftime is in the Hall of Fame. There is a than 50. guard position previously held tied at 41. reason her teams always win, and there is a reason she has won a national championship. They don’t go away.” 
– Baylor coach Kim Mulkey 
Dec. 1 
“More points in the paint, more points in transition, more bench points, more offensive rebounds. I mean, Notre Dame outplayed us in every way today.” 
– Connecticut coach Geno Auriemma 
Jan. 8 Players chase after a loose ball during Notre Dame’s 76-73 loss to No. 2 Connecticut Jan. 8. Irish coach Muffet McGraw called the loss a “catalyst” for the rest of the season. 
“They killed us on the inside. Peters and Bruszewski were dominant. They really have a 
“I thought all year they “We showed tape, we good team. I’m very impressed 
were one of the toughest practiced it for two days with them, and I think this is one 
teams in the country.” and it went completely out 
– Oklahoma coach Sherri Cole
of the best teams they’ve had in a 
the window.” 
March 26 

– Seton Hall coach Anne Donovan Feb. 8 
long time.” 
– St. John’s coach Kim Barnes Arico Jan. 23 

Friday, April 1, 2011 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
astating losses mark season What they 
But Diggins missed a jumper six games. All were to teams lar starters, Novosel was at the end of the game, and ranked in the top 15, and five named the Big East ’s most Huskies guard Kelly Faris put were by a single-digit margin. improved player and Peters the 
said

Connecticut ahead. At this point, Notre Dame was Big East defensive player of the Notre Dame wouldn’t lose ranked No. 7. year. again for over a month. “We’ve been up and down, Despite the loss, the tourna-Opposing coaches on the power of down a lot within the team. The ment gave Notre Dame momen­
this season’s Irish 

Conference play: Jan. 12 – reason is injuries and losing tum that it took to the NCAA Feb. 28 two people, but we knew we tournament, and still hasn’t 
Notre Dame ’s defense and had to come together,” Mallory ceded. post play were keys to a 14-2 said. “We knew it was going to “It’s fun to see the growth conference record that included happen. At some point, we and maturity since the begin-wins over four ranked teams knew we were going to play our ning of the season,” McGraw (No. 16 Georgetown, No. 23 St. best basketball.” said. John’s, No. 25 Syracuse and No. 19 West Virginia) and the pro-The Big East tournament: The Final Four, April 3-5 “Well, against a team like Notre gram’s second-largest confer-March 6 -March 8 The Irish will bring the auto­ence win ever, 89-38 over Seton The loss to DePaul gave Notre graphed basketball with them Dame… your worst fears are Hall on Feb. 8. Dame the No. 3 seed in the Big to Indianapolis for Notre 
On Jan 23, the Irish took East tournament, held in Dame’s first final four appear-another personnel hit when Hartford, Conn. ance since that run, said assis-going to come true because of standout freshman guard Kayla The Irish took care of tant coach Niele Ivey, who McBride announced she would Louisville 63-53 in the quarter-played point guard for the 2001 how they play, how they get the be leaving the team for person-finals before a rematch with national championship team. al reasons. At that point, DePaul just a week after their Ivey sided with Muffet, saying 
ball from point A to point B, and 

McBride was averaging 8.7 first game. This time, it was this season was beginning to points in 24 minutes per game. Notre Dame pulling off the last-look like “destiny.” 
In a punishing stretch at the minute victory, defeating the But after everything it has what they do when they get in end of the season, Notre Dame Blue Demons 71 -67 on the endured, Diggins said the team faced No. 2 Connecticut, No. 19 strength of Diggins’ 19 points. has a lot more than fortune on the lane and how aggressive West Virginia and No. 12 The win sent Notre Dame to its side. DePaul on the road in the space the Big East tournament cham-“As you can see this team is of 10 days. pionship for the first time in playing with a lot of energy and they are.” 
It fell to Connecticut 78-57 on program history and to a match tenacity and relentlessness,” 
– Connecticut coach Geno Auriemma 

Feb. 19, its first loss since the against Connecticut for the Diggins said. “We all come out Huskies won Jan. 8. The team third time this season. here with a lot of excitement March 8 then defeated West Virginia 72-On a court that was anything knowing we have a chance to 60 on Jan. 22, but suffered yet but neutral, the Irish were make history again and be like another last-second loss, 70-69, down just one, 32-31, at half-them.” to DePaul. time before ultimately falling 
Heading into the Big East 73-64. Contact Laura Myers at tournament, the Irish had lost In their first season as regu-lmyers2@nd.edu 
“That was our game plan, to not let them score in the paint. I don’t know what happened.” 
– Temple coach Tonya Cardoza March 22 
“It becomes a battle of wills, and I thought that they just didn’t give ground. They really put their feet in the paint and said, ‘You’re not going to get all the way to the rim.’ They were very tough-minded in the paint.” – 
Syracuse coach Quenten Hillsman Feb. 1

Junior guard Natalie Novosel faces off against a defender during Notre Dame’s 71-67 win over DePaul in the Big East semifinals March 7. 
“Across the board, they had “We turned the ball over 
great player movement, ball 28 times and you can’t do “We got beat by one of the 
movement, intensity and sense of that against a team like best teams in the 
urgency. They got to a lot of loose Notre Dame and expect to country.” 
balls and used the glass well. I 

-DePaul coach Doug Bruno 
am very impressed with this be in the ball game, which 

March 7 
team.”

we weren’t in the end.” 
– Tennessee coach Pat Summitt Feb. 26 – Cincinnati coach Jamelle Elliot March 28 

page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 1, 2011 
NOTRE DAME 

Third Final Four adds to McGraw’s legacy 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
In 1987, when Notre Dame athlet­ics director Gene Corrigan intro­duced Muffet McGraw as the head coach of the Irish, he told those in attendance that he would not find a better candidate even if he had uti­lized an additional year to find someone to lead the program. 
Not even Corrigan could have imagined the depths the former Lehigh head coach would take the program to, and now McGraw pre­pares her team for its third Final Four appearance, with enshrine­ment into the Hall of Fame coming this summer. Not to mention her most sparkling achievement: trans­forming the Irish into one of the sport’s biggest powerhouses. 
Ten years ago, the Irish were playing in their second Final Four appearance under McGraw and were able to avenge a loss in the Big East championship game to Connecticut with a 90-75 victory over the Huskies in the national semifinals. A decade later, McGraw once again finds only Connecticut between her squad and an appear­ance in the national title game. 
“We weren’t really thinking about [the possibility of the Final Four] too much,” McGraw said. “We had our reunion in the fall; they presented our team with a basketball and said we won one, now it’s your turn.” 
In the 2001 Big East champi­onship game, McGraw watched as Huskies guard Sue Bird went coast-to-coast and finished it off with a game-winning layup in a heart­breaking loss. But McGraw would not allow the team to stay down in the loss. After all, the NCAA tourna­ment was only days away. 
McGraw worked her magic and got the team to focus on the ultimate prize: a trip to the Final Four. In the same situation this year, she once again delivered and led the team to women’s basketball’s semifinals. 
“She’s the woman with the answers,” Irish senior forward Becca Bruszewski said. “She’s the one that tells us what to do, calls the plays, gets on us about what type of defense we are, knows how to shut a team down, you know, whatever the game plan is, she sets it and we go to it.” 
McGraw, now in her 29th season as a collegiate head coach, has often had to deal with adversity and obstacles, with this year being no different. Earlier this season, two key contributors left the team for personal reasons — junior forward Erica Solomon and freshman guard Kayla McBride. Overcoming the two departures, injuries to Bruszewski at critical times and the uncertain health status of senior forward Devereaux Peters heading into the season, McGraw has pulled off one of the most impressive performanc­es in her illustrious career. 
“She’s been unbelievable,” senior guard Brittany Mallory said. “She’s led us from losing people from injuries. She’s got a great mindset, and she’s been here before. She’s just kind of getting us ready for everything.” 
When the Irish take the court Sunday night, McGraw will have one of the best coaching staffs in the country sitting next to her — one that includes assistant coach Niele Ivey, who starred on the 2001 championship squad. 
“I think I’ve been fortunate to have great coaches with me,” McGraw said. “We’ve had great assistant coaches over the years. The coaches are extremely competi­tive. We want to win and we hate to lose.” 
This season’s Final Four squad will have one advantage that McGraw’s 2001 team did not have 
— the advantage of playing in their home state. McGraw, however, does not think the close proximity will play much of a role in Sunday’s matchup. 
“We do get to get on a bus instead of a plane which is kind of nice but other than that we’re going to be staying in a hotel in a different city,” she said. 


With two more wins this season, McGraw can reach the pinnacle of college basketball by adding an NCAA championship to her résumé. 
“It’s rewarding [to reach the Final Four],” McGraw said. “You worry at the beginning of the year, you think ‘Gosh, I’m going into the Hall of Fame, what if we have a really bad season?’ Now to beat Tennessee and head to Indianapolis, it takes on a bigger meaning.” 
A meaning bigger than what she, or Corrigan, could have ever imag­ined. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
No. 2 Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
Record: 36-1 
Path to the Final Four: 
64: 67-54 over Utah 
32: 77-64 over Temple 
16: 78-53 over Oklahoma 
8: 73-59 over Tennessee 
Key players: 
Senior forward Becca Bruszewski is the team’s mental leader, and the Irish look to her to keep intensity high during games. 
Senior guard Brittany Mallory and senior forward Devereaux Peters keep Notre Dame in close games with their all-out defense. 
How they win: 
Notre Dame is on a wave of momentum that has grown with each game of the NCAA tournament, and are playing just two hours from campus. These factors could tip a game in Notre Dame’s favor. 
How they lose: 
Several team members have been playing through injuries during the NCAA tournament. Notre Dame needs every member of its lineup to mount a serious challenge to Connecticut. 
CONNECTICUT 

Auriemma builds UConn program unmatched in success 
No. 1 Connecticut Huskies 
Record: 36-1 
Path to the Final Four: 
64: 75-39 over Hartford 
32: 64-40 over Purdue 
16: 68-63 over Georgetown 
8: 75-40 over Duke 
Key players: 
Senior guard Maya Moore, a four-time All-American, has won two national champi­onships and has been lauded as the best ever to play the game. She leads her team in points, rebounds, steals, assists and blocks. 
Freshman point guard Bria Hartley has never been there before, but has incredible poise for a freshman and averages 12.5 points per game. 
How they win: 
Moore plays like the senior she is and makes up her mind to end her career with a national championship. 
How they lose: 
Even at their worst, the Huskies are only slightly vul­nerable. But they have been inconsis­tent thus far in the tourna­ment, and that inconsistency could hurt them against top competition. 

went 12-15 in the program’s be National Coach of the Year. not, ‘Is it any harder or easier 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 

first year of existence. He has done a great job with or does it have any more sig-
Sports Writer 

Meanwhile, the Connecticut losing Tina Charles. He’s a nificance.’ No, we are trying coach has established himself great coach on the defensive to get a group of kids to play 771 wins, seven national comfortably at the top of his end. I don’t think he gets together, play really well every championships, 12 Final conference with 17 Big East enough credit on defense. … night and beat all comers. He Fours. And Geno Auriemma tournament championships, Over the past 10 years I don’t tried to do it, I try to do it, and still has a full head of hair. including a stretch from 1993-think there’s been a better to compare us versus them … 
The Connecticut coach prob-2002 during which coach in the country.” I am not into that.” ably doesn’t remember what it Connecticut (36-1) won nine In addition to his regular-The Huskies eventually saw is like to lose, having to go consecutive titles. Auriemma season prowess, Auriemma the streak come to an end at back all the way to the 1992-earned his 10th Big East has been to the NCAA tourna-90 games Dec. 30 against No. 93 season to find the last time coach of the year honor this ment in each of the past 23 8 Stanford, their only loss of that his Huskies team posted year, after leading the Huskies seasons. Even more impres-the year. But since the loss, double digits in the losing col-to a 32 -1 regular season sive is that he has taken the Connecticut has come back to umn. In fact, the coach has record. Huskies to the Sweet 16 or win the next 24 contests, with only had one losing season in “He’s a great coach,” Irish beyond in his past 19 March all but three wins coming in his career — the 1985-1986 coach Muffet McGraw said. Madness trips. double-digit fashion. season, when the Huskies “This year I thought he should And with Tuesday’s 75-40 With another visit to the 
pounding of No. 2 seed Duke, Final Four, it comes as no sur-Auriemma advanced to his prise that Auriemma is setting fourth straight Final Four — his sights on an eighth nation-all with four-time first team al championship, understand-All-American senior guard ing the tough task at hand. Maya Moore, who went for 28 “With the three teams that points against the Blue Devils. are there, you can make a 
But the coach’s biggest case for all three of them to be accomplishment came in a there. There is not one of typical 31-point UConn win those teams that you can take over No. 21 Florida State Dec. away and say that so-and-so 
21. That night, the Auriemma-should be there,” he said led Huskies won their 89th Wednesday. “This is probably consecutive game, dating back one of the more unique Final to the 2007-2008 season. The Fours. I don’t think there are mark topped the 88-game a lot of similarities between winning streak of the leg-these teams. They each have endary John Wooden and distinct styles of play, person-UCLA compiled from 1971-ality types, size and speed. 1974. When asked how he felt There is a little bit of every-being compared to Wooden, thing and it is going to be a the Connecticut coach true test for whoever can win answered with sharp disap-these two games because they proval. are going to have to adjust to 
“Only in the comparison of a variety of things and that is what we try to do,” he told just really exciting.” ESPN’s Pardon the Interruption when asked if the Contact Andrew Gastelum at comparisons were fair. “It’s agastel01@nd.edu 

Friday, April 1, 2011 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
TEXAS A&M 

Aggies haven’t been there, but plan to act like it 
No. 2 Texas A&M Aggies 
Record: 31-5 
Path to the Final Four: 
64: 87-47 over McNeese State 
32: 70-48 over Rutgers 
16: 79-38 over Georgia 
8: 58-46 over Baylor 
Key players: 
Senior forward/center Danielle Adams is critical to her team’s defensive and offensive efforts. She aver­ages 22.3 points per game, nearly twice as any other teammate. She also leads her team with 8.6 rebounds and 1.33 blocks per game. 
How they win: 
If it’s possible for a two-seed to be a wildcard, the Aggies are that. Compared to the other three teams remain­ing, the Aggies are an unknown in this tournament, which means opponents probably aren’t familiar with their style of play. This could work as an advantage. 
How they lose: 
The Aggies have never played on this stage before, and could easily succomb to the pressure of competing against a historically suc­cessful program for a cham­pionship. 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
Taking advantage of its eighth NCAA tournament appearance, No. 2-seed Texas A&M stepped up in the clutch Tuesday, as it defeated top-seeded Baylor for the first time in four tries this season and secured a ticket to its first-ever Final Four in Indianapolis. 
The Aggies (31-5) — which lost twice in the regular season and once in the conference tournament to fellow Big 12 power Baylor (34-3) — knew all along that they were capa­ble of beating the Bears. 
Aggies coach Gary Blair admitted in a press conference call Wednesday that his team was simply unable to close out tight games. 
“We were in all three games; we were leading in all three games. I was the 37-minute coach,” Blair said. “I just did-n’t coach well in the last three minutes, and our kids didn’t make good decisions, and Baylor did. They deserved to win all three games.” 
The Aggies approached their fourth and final matchup against Baylor with a different intensity. 
“We played the socks off of them, and they know it,” Blair said. “I think that’s one of the reasons why they didn’t want to try that fourth time against us, and I think it bothered Baylor more playing us for four than it did us playing Baylor.” 
Blair said he enjoyed the win against Baylor, but he has even higher expectations for his team. In the final minutes of the regional final, Blair called a timeout to remind his team how to celebrate appropriately. 
“I wanted our kids to realize, when we win this thing, we don’t dog pile on the floor. Okay? Act like you’ve been there before. Give respect to Baylor, because they’ve been to Final Fours,” Blair said. “I said we’ll have time to cele­brate later. But why do you want to ruin your best celebra­tion on just getting to the Final Four? If we can get to the Final Four and win the whole thing, I’ll be on the top of that dog pile.” 
The Aggies have been pretty consistent all season, minus a couple bumps in the road. Falling to Duke in just their seventh game of the season, the Aggies bounced back and went on a 12-game winning streak. Aside from the early loss to Duke and the three tough losses against Baylor, only Kansas State was able to put a black mark on Texas A&M’s record. 
Led by the region’s most out­standing player in junior guard Sydney Carter, the Aggies’ rotation resembles that of a few other Final Four teams, frequently consisting of six players. Blair said he is able to rely on Carter, regardless of how tired she is, to make good decisions both with the ball and away from the ball. 
“You are talking about the perfect build for a basketball player, whether she was 5’6” or 6’4”. I mean, this kid is just built. She can be a model. She could be anything she wanted to,” he said. “You are talking about a kid that’s just fun to be around. Every day she brings it; in practice and in games she brings it. Sydney Carter is just that type of player that’s going to throw it out there on the line — everything.” 
The Aggies have taken advantage of their opportuni­ties thus far, and they hope to continue to surprise the col­lege basketball nation. 


“We’ve enjoyed being under the radar just a little; we should be under the radar,” Blair said. “I believe until you get to the Final Four, you haven’t really earned it. You’ve always been sort of the trendy team that everybody wants to pick but cannot get over that hump of getting there.” 
For the first time ever, the Aggies are there. They will tip off against Stanford Sunday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolden01@saintmarys.edu 
STANFORD 

Ogwumike sisters lead strong Cardinal team to Indy 
son was foiled by said. “Tara’s a great coach. ing new competition. 
By CHRIS MASOUD 

Connecticut and 2010 … She’s one of the icons in “Just congratulations to 
Sports Writer 

Naismith winner Tina women’s basketball. She’s Notre Dame for beating 
Charles. one of the elite coaches, and Tennessee, ” VanDerveer 
Connecticut and Tennessee While this season’s winner her teams have been very said. “I think Gonzaga shows may have combined to win will not be named until the successful over the years.” that there’s more than just a 11 of the last 15 national end of the season, The respect is mutual. couple teams that can play championships, but Stanford VanDerveer’s squad features VanDerveer credited Notre basketball. There are more coach Tara VanDerveer has a Naismith finalist of its Dame for taking down the than a couple players too.” built her own powerhouse on own. Junior forward No. 1-seed Tennessee in the Stanford will face Texas the West N n e m k a d i regional finals Monday in A&M Sunday with a trip to Coast. Under O g w u m i k e Dayton, Ohio. The No. 1-seed its third national title game VanDerveer ’s leads the Cardinal took down No.11-in four years on the line. remarkabl e “[Tara VanDerveer] is Cardinal with seed Gonzaga in a convinc­tenure, the 17 points and ing win, but VanDerveer wel-Contact Chris Masoud at 
one of the icons in
Cardinal have 7.6 rebounds comes the challenge of fac-cmasoud@nd.edu
women’s basketball. 
won 19 con -per game. secutive PAC -She’s one of the elite And she has a 10 titles and sister. 
coaches.” 
two NCAA Forward champi-Chiney onships. Muffet McGraw Ogwumike 
After dis -Irish coach starts alongside mantling her sister and Gonzaga 83-60 is currently in the regional averaging 12 finals on Monday night, points and 8.1 rebounds in Stanford will be making its her freshman campaign. The fourth consecutive trip to the duo has given Stanford one Final Four. of top frontcourts in the 
“Going to four Final Fours nation. for Stanford, what this sen-“Obviously Chiney is my ior class has accomplished… other half and so we’re like is outstanding,” VanDerveer fire and ice, ” Nnemkadi said in a press conference Ogwumike said in the after Monday’s game. “It’s postgame press conference really special that we ’re Monday. back at the Final Four, four While the sisters give years in a row. It’s incredibly Stanford a strong presence exciting. I’m so happy for in the post, senior guard this team.” Jeanette Pohlen captains the 
The Cardinal reached the backcourt. Shooting 41.2 title game in 2008, but fell to percent from behind the arc, a Tennessee team featuring Pohlen was named to the the Naismith College Player Associated Press All-America 
of the Year in Candace First Team Tuesday. Parker. A return to the “They [Cardinal] have championship game last sea-great players too,” McGraw 

No. 1 Stanford Cardinal 
Record: 33-2 
Path to the Final Four: 
64: 86-59 over UC Davis 
32: 75-49 over St. John’s 
16: 72-65 over North Carolina 
8: 83-60 over Gonzaga 
Key players: 
Junior forward Nneka Ogwumike averages 17 points per game and leads a big Cardinal team that is tough in the paint. 
Senior guard Jeannette Pohlen is the outside com­plement to Ogwumike. She shoots 3-pointers with 41.2 percent accuracy and has made 93 of them on the sea­son. 
How they win: 
The Cardinal are deep and experienced, and are the only team that has beaten Connecticut this season. Since then, they’ve only grown. 
How they lose: 
Though they did defeat Connecticut, the Cardinal struggled early this seasons with losses to physical teams like DePaul and Connecticut. The Pac 10 is not known for that type of play, and Stanford could struggle against a peaking Big East team. 

page 8 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 1, 2011 


Left: Sophomore guard Fraderica Miller dribbles during Notre Dame’s 67-54 win over Utah in the round of 64 on March 19. 
Below: Junior guard Natalie Novosel evades a Temple defender during Notre Dame’s 77-64 victory over Temple in the round of 32 on March 21. 
Above: Novosel drives to the basket during Notre Dame’s 78-53 victory over Oklahoma in the Sweet 16 Saturday, which sent the Irish to their first Elite Eight since 2001. 
Center: The Irish celebrate winning the Dayton Region after their defeat of Tennessee Monday night. 
Left: Senior forward Devereaux Peters grabs a rebound duringNotre Dame’s 73-59 win over Tennessee Monday, the first victo­ry over the Volunteers in program history. 



GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 








