the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


SpecialOlympicscomestoND 
tus in the fall of 2008 and were Special Olympics athletes, 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 

denied club status, their goal of Rhodenbaugh said the game 
News Writer 

creating a Special Olympics club at showed how Special Olympics Notre Dame was finally achieved grew on campus. 
The weekend’s rain paused long last August. “It hit off unbelievably,” he said. enough Sunday for Special “It’s one of the first official uni-“Once we recruited people they got Olympics ND to host its first soccer versity Special Olympics clubs in their friends to come to the meet-competition in a Blue versus Gold the United States,” Rhodenbaugh ings. We’ve maintained our volun­game at Alumni Field. Co-presi-said. teers and hope there will be dents and seniors Soeren Palumbo The match demonstrated the more.” and Christopher Rhodenbaugh cumulative effort of Palumbo, Rhodenbaugh said Sunday’s said the match was the culmina-Rhodenbaugh and Jenna game was one of the first events in tion of a three-year process. Newcomb, who graduated before the United States to include college 
After Palumbo and the club became official. Bringing Rhodenbaugh applied for club sta-together University students and see SOCCER/page 5 



By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 

As quarterbacks Tommy Rees and Andrew Hendrix led the Gold team to a 17-14 victory over the Blue team at the Blue-Gold game Saturday, Irish fans were left feeling uncertain, but optimistic about the upcoming season. 
“I think it’s going to be good,” senior Jerry Parshall said. “It seems like we have a really good recruiting class, [and] we did really well at the end of the sea­son, so it seems like there’s some good positive momentum for next year. I’ve only heard good things about what’s happening.” 
Sophomore Catherine Gillespie said despite some sloppiness on offense, she was glad to see the team playing again. 
“I was really excited to see all the different quarterbacks play and different people on offense,” Gillespie said. “It made me hope-

THE SHIRT 2011: SEEING BLUE 
Blue and Gold Game gives preview to fans 
ful that maybe during the regular season [Irish coach] Brian Kelly will be more comfortable playing different offensive players — kind of switching things up.” 
Some students said they are looking forward to finding out who next season’s starting quar­terback will be. 
“It will be really interesting to see what happens with the quar­terback situation,” senior Kate Weber said. “Once we know that, we’ll know more about what will happen with the team overall.” 
Parshall said he thinks there is good competition among the potential quarterbacks but pre­dicts Kelly will choose senior Dayne Crist to start. 
“He’s the most experienced even though he’s been pretty banged up injury-wise,” Parshall said. “I think next year he’ll put us in the best position to win.” 
Freshman Caleb Cobbin said 
see GAME/page 5 




Students save dog from drain 
By ANDREW OWENS 
News Writer 
Carroll Hall residents and Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) averted a near-disas­ter Thursday when they res­cued a dog from a drainage hole outside the dorm. 
The dog, ‘Skippy,’ was briefly released from his leash while on a walk around campus before he ran into a small drainage tunnel near the D6 parking lot. The tun­nel extended approximately 30 yards and opened at the 

opposite end in another JACK HEFFERON/The Observer 
Sophomores Keith Marrero, middle, and Michael Weiss, right, helped see SKIPPY/page 3 retrieve a local dog, Skippy, from a drainage tunnel Thursday. 


Russell appointed to associate vice president 
Observer Staff Report 

Heather Rakoczy Russell was appointed associate vice presi­dent for residential life in the Division of Student Affairs, effec­tive today, according to a University press release. 
Russell most recently served as the director of the Gender Relations Center. 
“Heather is a talented leader who brings to this role an abid­ing and well-articulated sense of mission, proven leadership at the University and professional experience within our unique residential systems,” Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Tom Doyle said. “Notre Dame resi­dence hall communi­ties are an anchor for Catholic education in the Holy Cross tra-

see RUSSELL/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC walks for autism awareness page 3  D-Season makes music page 10  Blue and Gold Game coverage page 20  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, April 18, 2011 
THE OBSERVER 
Question: If you could wear Q: What would you name the 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

one shirt for the rest of your child of Rebecca Black and 
024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

life, what would it be? Justin Bieber? 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

Douglas Farmer Blake: My UT shirt that just has Blake: Rebeiber Beiber MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER “TEXAS” across the front. 

Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala 

Q: If you had to flee the coun-
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt 

Q: If you were asking the try, where would you go? 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Question of the Day, what Blake: Italy, then Ireland for the 
Sam Stryker 

would you ask? Emerald Isle game. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
Blake: Heck if I know — that’s 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 

not my job! Q: What is one thing you wish 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

you would have done last PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney Q: If you lived in the Middle year? GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
SAINT MARY S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
Ages, what would your job be? Blake: Gone to the Vancouver 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 
Blake: The King. Winter Olympics. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski Blake Weaver CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 
freshman 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
Morrissey 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 

Know someone chill for Monday’s Icebreaker? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
Irish leprechaun Mike George pumps up the crowd despite the wind and rain at 
advertisements based on content. 

The Shirt Unveiling. The 22nd Shirt was revealed in front of students, fans and 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
alumni at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Friday. 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. OFFBEAT 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Robber bit by police dog comment. ting ready to bloom. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
sues cops after biting back Sullivan also alleges The Columbus Dispatch 
contact information. 

PHOENIX – A 33-year-old Glendale police refused to reports greenhouse coordina­man who bit back after he give him insulin to treat his tor Joan Leonard has been 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be 
was caught by a Phoenix diabetes. Sullivan’s attor-growing the flowers since 
directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
police dog is suing police. ney, Keith Knowlton, has 2001, and this would be the POST OFFICE INFORMATION Erin Sullivan alleges the said his client suffered a first of five to bloom. 
dog violated his civil rights diabetic seizure in a Leonard says smelling the 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during 
exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic 
and used excessive force to Glendale cell. Amorphophallus titanium for 
year; $75 for one semester. 

capture him after he ran Sullivan is serving eight the first time will be the cul-
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: from officers in Glendale years for convictions in the mination of a decade of work. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 

Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 during a burglary investi-Glendale burglary.  But it will be a quick experi­and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
gation last year. ence because the flower 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
Police say Sullivan bit the Flower that smells like withers after a day or two. dog back, injuring it. human flesh set to bloom She expects the bloom to The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are The lawsuit names the COLUMBUS, Ohio – Spring open in May, revealing its reserved. 
cities of Phoenix and is in the air, and that means umbrella-sized “petals.” Glendale and four officers. an unpleasant smell for one When that happens, the uni­TODAY’S STAFF Precursor filings to the greenhouse at Ohio State versity will have visiting lawsuit sought $200,000 University. hours to give people a peek 
News Sports 
from Glendale and An 8-foot-tall rain forest at the rare plant. 
Amanda Gray Chris Allen 
$250,000 from Phoenix. plant that’s known as a Nicole Toczauer Megan Golden 
Officials in Glendale and “corpse flower” because it Information compiled from Tori Roeck Joe Wirth Phoenix have declined smells like rotting flesh is get-the Associated Press. 
Graphics Scene 
Melissa Kaduck Courtney Cox 
Photo Viewpoint 
Suzanna Pratt Ren Brauweiler 
IN BRIEF 
The Henkels Lecture Series presents the lecture “Hispanics and Educational Inequality in the U.S.” today in Geddes Hall at 3 p.m. Dr. Ruth Lopez Turley of Rice University will speak about her research in educational inequality. 
The Department of Applied and Computational Mathematics and Statistics and the Interdisciplinary Center for the Study of Biocomplexity are sponsoring the colloquium titled “A Model of Threshold Behavior Reveals Rescue Mechanisms 
of Bystander Proteins in Conformational Diseases” today in 129 Hayes-Healy Center at 4 p.m. 
Pete Klenow, Ralph Landau Professor in Economic Policy at Stanford University, will be giving a talk tomorrow called “Beyond GDP? Welfare Across Countries and Time,” sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Room C103 at 12:30 p.m. 
Francis Deng, Special Advisor to the United Nations Secretary -General on the Prevention of Genocide and Mass Atrocities, will be giving a lecture tomorrow titled “The Paradox of National Protection in Divided Nations” as a part of the 17th Annual Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Lectures in Ethics and Public Policy. The talk will take place at 4 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Today Tonight tuesday wednesday thursday friday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
LOW 36 LOW 37 LOW 45 LOW 34 LOW 39 LOW 45 


Monday, April 18, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Walk raises funds for autism 

ing research for the causes, 
By CECILIA GLOVER 

prevention, treatments and 
News Writer 

cure for autism. The day began with registra­
“Walk Now for Autism tion and breakfast sponsored Speaks,” organized by the by Studebagels and Sodexo at Autism Speaks U Club at Saint 10 a.m. Mary’s College, raised aware-Autism Speaks that we raise awareness, not just in America, but Europe, Asia, Africa — everywhere.” 
There was also a resource fair consisting of local organi­zations such as Reins of Life, Inc., Hannah and Friends 

ness for autism and promoted U merchan-“It is important that we and the Sonya the new club Sunday. dise, such as Ansari Center 
raise awareness, not
Many students, community t-shirts and for Autism at members and families affected s u n g l a s s e s , justt in America, but LOGAN. by autism attended the event. were available Europe, Asia, Africa — “This event is 
“The cause and cure for to be pur-more for the 
everywhere.” 
autism is unknown. It is impor-chased at the families than tant that we get the funding to e v e n t . for the stu­do research and find a cure for Families and Matt Coleman dents,” Kerri autism,” event coordinator s t u d e n t s Hannah and Friends resident Doherty, direc­

tor of advertis­
ing for the event, said. “It is great that this event allows college students to become advocates for autism, however, the reason we planned this event is for the families who are affected by autism.” 
The three-mile walk began on Dalloway’s Green outside the clubhouse and circled around Saint Mary’s campus. The club raised more than $400 in dona­tions on Sunday alone. The club raised more than $5,000 in all of its fundraising efforts, which will go towards Autism Speaks. 
“It is great that Saint Mary’s College was able to become a part of Autism Speaks and plan this event to raise awareness,” Deanna Finfrock, mother of autistic son, Nolan Finfrock, said. “It is always a great idea to get college students involved and plan these fundraisers. Nolan and our family had a great time today.” 
Contact Cecilia Glover at cglove01@saintmarys.edu 
Skippy 
continued from page 1 
drainage hole. 
When the owners were unable to lure Skippy from the hole, they called NDSP for assistance. 
Several Carroll Hall resi­dents stopped to help the owners when they witnessed the crisis on their walk to dinner. Carroll Hall resident assistant Rob Wilson took charge of the situation. 
“This man was just laying next to the sewer cap, yelling,” Wilson said. “I thought he was hurt. Once I realized his dog was under­ground, I figured that we should just do whatever we could do to help.” 
Wilson yelled to Skippy from the opposite end of the tunnel. 
“I shined a flashlight in there, and you could see his little green eyes,” Wilson said. “We tried throwing some cheese and a raw burg­er in there, but it wouldn’t take.” 
The dog ran from one end of the tunnel and back and was not trapped, but he was reluctant to leave the tunnel itself. The crowd drew him out after about a half-hour. 
“We had people on both sides of the tunnel making noises, and all [of a] sudden I heard a jubilant celebration on the other end, and we saw this little furry dog running around,” Wilson said. “He was the happiest thing in the world.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

Katrina Mesina said. “This event is also a great way to get people together on campus and promote the Autism Speaks U club.” 
Autism Speaks U is a pro­gram intended for college stu­dents to support their local autism communities and raise awareness and funding for Autism Speaks. Autism Speaks is the nation’s largest advocacy organization for autism. The organization is devoted to fund-enjoyed face painting, inflatables, an Irish Dance Team performance and many more activities before the walk took place. 
Dan Ryan, director of the Autism Center at LOGAN and Matt Coleman, an autistic resi­dent of Hannah and Friends, spoke at the event. 
“We need to spread aware­ness for autism everywhere,” Coleman said. “It is important 
page 4 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, April 18, 2011 Monday, April 18, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 

Russell 
continued from page 1 
dition. Heather will head and help chart the course for these communities as Notre Dame prepares for its third century of Holy Cross education that seeks to integrate the mind and heart.” 
Russell will continue in her role as director of the Gender Relations Center until a search has been completed for her suc­cessor. The Office of Residence Life and Housing will become two separate offices effective June 1, as previously announced in a reorganization of Student Affairs. Russell will work closely with the office until that date before it becomes part of her formal responsibilities. 
Russell graduated from Notre Dame with a bachelor’s degree in philosophy and theology and then received a master of divini­ty degree from Vanderbilt University Divinity School. She served as the rector of Pangborn Hall from 1998 to 2005 and began her position as the inau­gural director of the Gender Relations Center in 2004, the press release stated. She also served as a spiritual director in Campus Ministry for undergrad­uate interns and was a supervi­sor to master of divinity stu­dents. 
While at Notre Dame, Russell also taught several theology classes and served on several campus committees, including the Advisory Committee on Academics and Student Life; the University Committee for Women Faculty and Students; the Core Council for Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual Students; the Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention; and the President’s Ad Hoc Committee on Women. 
Before she returned to Notre Dame in 1998, Russell worked in the domestic violence movement with both victims and batterers. According to the press release, she served with the Project to End Abuse through Counseling and Education (PEACE Inc.) and worked as a court liaison for the YWCA Domestic Violence Shelter in Nashville, Tenn. She also spent time as a lay pastor of an inner-city church, a hospital chaplain and a community serv­ice coordinator on the board of directors for the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Nashville. 

Robots face off in football 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 

The third annual Blue-Gold Mechatronic Football game fea­tured an exciting, though some­what one-sided game of good old eight-on-eight robot football. The competition was held in a leaky Stepan Center, but the stands were still packed with spectators who had braved the rainy weath­er. 
The competition was founded three years ago by three alumni from the class of 1970: Bill Hederman, Vince Cushing and Skip Horvath. It was founded in memory of Hedermam’s son, Brian, who died during his fresh­man year at Notre Dame in 1995. 
The inspiration for the competi­tion came from a drawing of a robotic football player found in Brian Henderman’s room after his death. 
Mechanical engineering profes­sors Jim Schmiedeler and Michael Stanisic were in charge of the project, which is the capstone of a design course for seniors in the mechanical engineering depart­ment. 
Seniors Eric Leis and Tom Banasiak, two of the designers behind the blue team’s kicker, enjoyed the project and were pleased with their efforts. 
“It was a good bonding experi­ence working on a team with the other students,” Banasiak said. 
Their robot, The Death Star, went on to score 12 points in the game. 
“It was the culmination of four years of hard work and sweat, and it’s been a lot of fun putting it together,” Leis said. 
Three of the blue team’s robots were operated by nine students from Ohio Northern University. According to Stanisic the ultimate goal is to build an intercollegiate competition. 
All of the robotic players were controlled by wireless hand-held controllers operating on a local area network (LAN), Stanisic said. Students had to properly program each robot to respond properly to the controllers. 
Each robot is equipped with a “knockdown sensor” to make tackling possible, according to Stanisic. The sensor normally dis­plays a green light, but when struck the light will change to blue to indicate a tackle or a knock­down if the player is not carrying the ball. The light also signals “pain” by flashing red. 
The sensor only malfunctioned on one tackle and the gold team was appropriately penalized. 
For this year’s game an empha­sis was placed on passing. The teams were encouraged to devel­op the technology to pass by the modified scoring system, which awarded points simply for com­pleting a pass. 
Longer passes received more points than shorter passes. The blue team attempted several pass­es, including a few deep throws, but was unable to complete any of them. The gold team succeeded in completing one screen pass (3 points) and one short pass (7 points). However, blue defense-men also intercepted the gold team twice (3 points each). 
In practices the players were able to complete passes of up to 40 feet, but during the game neither team could pass well consistently. 
The gold team won the game by a score of 41 to 13 and was pre­sented with the Brian Hederman Memorial Robotic Competition Award. 
Upon receiving the award, gold team coach senior Bobby Powers spoke on behalf of his team and thanked everyone who attended for supporting the student engi­neers’ work. 
After the game, both coaches were pleased with their team’s efforts. 
“I am proud of my team,” blue team coach senior Steve Bonomo said. “We did a lot of good mainte­nance work on the fly.” 
Powers said the gold team was happy to come away with the win. 
“There were a lot of control problems during the game and I am proud of the way we reacted,” he said. 
Gold team robot Zippy received Most Valuable Robot honors for his performance on offense, defense and special teams. Zippy was responsible for 14 points on two offensive touchdowns and a safety, while also recovering an onside kick. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 


Soccer 
continued from page 1 

students and Special Olympics ath­letes on the same team. Remarkably, 13 of the 14 athletes on the teams were new recruits, he said. 
“They’ve never participated in Special Olympics before,” he said. “That’s what we want to do — reach new people in our communi­ty.” 
The effort and time the club members put into Sunday’s game and every month leading up to it brought hope, Palumbo said. Inspired by his younger sister Olivia Palumbo, Palumbo said he speaks from personal experience. 
“As someone with a sibling with an intellectual disability, it’s a com­fort that there are this many peo­ple who want to make the world a better place, to make sport and even fun more inclusive,” he said. “It just gives me a lot of hope.” 
Palumbo added that on a global scale, Notre Dame’s Special Olympics event verified the effect young people can have on a com­munity. 
“The game showed the energy young people can infuse, and it demonstrated that Special Olympics is interested in empower­ing them to be leaders of today,” Palumbo said. “It’s not made in an office. It was inspired and planned by college students.” 
Tim Shriver, co-founder of the Special Olympic College Outreach Program and grandson of Special Olympic founder Eunice Shriver, presented the award to the Blue team on the field early Sunday afternoon. 
“This is the long-awaited start of a program at Notre Dame. Three years ago the Special Olympic College Outreach Program encour­aged the creation of clubs like this,” Shriver said. “This is hope­fully the first of many competi­tions.” 
Shriver said this event stressed an inclusive community many Special Olympics athletes lack due to a societal norm of exclusion towards those with disabilities. This inclusion, acceptance and respect, he said, caused those dif­ferences to disappear. 
“It’s a chance to escape the over­whelming stigma they experience so heavily in everyday life,” Shriver said. “For everyone who gets involved, there’s one more person who changes their attitude.” 
Beyond Sunday’s event, Palumbo would like to develop intercolle­giate athletic events between teams composed of athletes with and without intellectual disabilities. 
“We’d like to see Notre Dame play Purdue or Northwestern,” he said. “On a grander scale, we’d like to see college students and Special Olympics athletes be engaged equally and recognized as team­mates. We’d love the rivalries of UCLA and USC, of Harvard and Yale, and the fervor that goes with those [to] materialize.” 
But the ultimate goal, Rodenbaugh said, is to have people advocate the spirit of inclusion in everyday life. Something about sports and its process of learning encourages friendship and inspires others. 
“There’s the fraternity that comes out of it, as with any team,” Palumbo said. “Sports strips away those barriers we use to keep each other apart. That experience is a self-affirming one and gives any­one confidence in Notre Dame, col­lege students and the human race in general.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 
Game 
continued from page 1 

he thinks Crist will most likely be the starting quarterback because he’s the strongest and most natu­rally talented of the current options. He also said he thinks freshman Tommy Rees would be a good backup for Crist. 
Others said the student body has become more hopeful about the football team’s prospects since Kelly became head coach in December 2009. 
“Notre Dame football has always been a huge part of everyone here, but I think people have started to be a little more encouraged about it than the last few years,” sophomore and Notre Dame Marching Band member Eric Dowdey said. 
Gillespie said the changes Kelly has made to the team’s perform­ance on the field as well as the team’s public image will take full effect in the future. 
“I know that [Kelly] said that he was going to try to have more focus on the way that football affects the community,” Gillespie said. “I think he’s been doing a pretty good job so far, but I don’t think the student body is aware of all the changes he has made. “ 
Cobbin said Kelly has made noticeable improvements to the team in the past year. 
“I feel like the team is more disciplined,” Cobbin said. “[Former Irish coach Charlie] Weis was more offense-heavy, whereas I feel like Kelly recruits defensive players more, which is helpful for our game. I just feel like they’re more clean and disci­plined.” 
Cobbin also said he looks for­ward to seeing what other improvements Kelly makes. 
“Whenever there’s a new coach, there’s going to be a dif­ferent feel,” Cobbin said. “Brian Kelly made mistakes last year, but I think it was a good start. If he keeps improving, it should be great.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Monday, April 18, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Haters gonna hate 
I represent a persecuted minority at Notre Dame, a group subjected to malicious verbal abuse, endless unflattering parodies and immediate harsh judgment from fellow peers — Jersey kids. 
Those unfa-

Tori Roeck 
miliar with the redeeming 
News 
qualities of the 

Production Editor 
Garden State refer to it as “Dirty Jerz” or the “Armpit” of America, among other derisive sobriquets. 
The blog “Things Notre Dame Students Like” even cites “Feeling Strongly about New Jersey” as a pop­ular campus pastime. 
Yes, I do feel strongly about my beloved home state. 
My town is located within 45 min­utes of the best city in the world, New York City, and 30 minutes from the Atlantic Ocean. I feel lucky to have been brought up in an area with so much to offer. 
The ocean region of New Jersey is the target of the most unwarranted ridicule because of MTV’s “reality” series Jersey Shore. 
Snooki, Pauly D, the Situation and crew wreak havoc on Seaside Heights (called Sleaside Heights by many New Jersey residents because of its sleazy nature) every summer, drunkenly fist-pumping their way through night­clubs Karma and Bamboo (located across the street from each other) and “working” at the Shore Store t-shirt shop on the boardwalk (which patrons must sign waivers and wait hours to enter during filming). 
Sleaside Heights is a Shore anom­aly. Towns such as Spring Lake, Lavalette and Long Beach Island are fashionable beach destinations. 
Ocean Avenue in Spring Lake, also called the “Irish Riviera,” is lined with Notre Dame flags while Oprah has a house in Lavalette. 
Not to mention the countless talent­ed celebrities who trace their roots to the Garden State. Frank Sinatra may sing about “New York, New York,” but he was born and raised in Hoboken, N.J., where the main street on the water is now called Frank Sinatra Drive. 
Jack Nicholson, the most nominated male actor in Academy Awards histo­ry, is from Manasquan, a town down the shore to boot. 
Meryl Streep, who holds the most Academy Awards nominations of any actor, is from Summit. 
It is unfortunate that the media puts forth such one-sided portrayals of New Jersey through shows such as Jersey Shore, The Real Housewives of New Jersey and the Sopranos. 
My fondest memories of home are of afternoons in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, day trips to the beach and long drives through the more rural towns, not Ed Hardy shopping sprees, Surf Club at Sleaside or inter­actions with the mob. 
I’m tired of the pervading New Jersey stereotypes that seduce even the cream-of-the-crop students who attend Our Lady’s University. 
The sage Teresa Giudice of table flipping fame once said, “Everyone makes fun of Jersey girls, but I think they’re just jealous.” 
That’s right, Teresa. Haters gonna hate. 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 

Objectivity (continued) 
It is not, of course, just exhaustion that inhibits reflection: While I am not really comfortable unless it is over ninety degrees outside, my mother cannot func­tion in anything over room temperature. But all of this serves only to emphasize Blackburn’s point that, “While we characterize our­selves and others as courageous, mod­est, prudent, sym­pathetic and so on, it turns out that we are much more 

Dan Sportiello 
fragmented and contextually vari-Bound able than these Variables terms suggest.” With sufficient rest, diet and exercise, I have wisdom, compas­sion and courage in abundance; without sufficient rest, diet and exercise, I have nothing, and I suspect that many of you, were you to look into your hearts, would say the same of yourselves. “Much work in social psychology,” echoes Blackburn, “suggests that people act more from moods and forces that are themselves set by situations rather than from settled dis­positions such as prudence, kindness and the rest.” Morality has everything to do, it seems, with luck — or, at any rate, with sleep and temperature — not with virtue. 
Actually, Blackburn argues, it gets worse: One might have hoped that if no one is utterly immune to circumstance and mood, at least some are more resistant to them than others — that is, one might have hoped that some have second-order dispositions to be virtuous at least most of the time. But, in fact, no one seems to be significantly more resistant to circum­stance and mood than anyone else. It “turns out that people do not differ very markedly in these dispositions and our common belief that they do is simply an illusion.” He concludes that the truly virtu­ous person — the sage who, indifferent to fortune and misfortune, walks through life as the only freedman among slaves — is an absurd fantasy. “This god-like nature belongs to nobody, and represents an ideal to which nobody can approximate.” 
It is true that I, certainly, do not approxi­mate it. And it is true that I have met few who do. But I would have thought that this was unsurprising: People are not utterly immune to circumstance and mood because virtue is, well, hard, and further­more, people do not show improvement in their resistance to circumstance and mood because our culture is dedicated to the goods of efficiency, not of excellence, and thus systematically prevents us from living virtuous lives. Polemic aside, however, there is a deeper problem with Blackburn’s skepticism about virtue: Whatever he claims, his account is based upon virtue — although not, perhaps, virtue of a distinctively moral kind. 
“Some philosophers,” notes Blackburn, “suggest that we should not even separate input from output. Their idea is that all we should find is the one unified mental act: judging a situation in moral terms, or see­ing the situation as demanding in some specific ways. Such philosophers like to think in terms of a unitary, ‘thick’ rule or concept, a single principle of organization that in one movement determines both how we see the situation and, seamlessly included in that, determines our reaction to it.” This is to react as I reacted in med­ical school, accepting my initial reaction of the mural — as a skeleton, not a skeletal system, and therefore something to be feared. It is, in other words, to live in the world as a child — and, thus, it is to be avoided. “Refusing to ‘split’ begins to sound like a refusal to think, perhaps symptomatic of a complacent belief that the emotional and moral lenses through which we see deserve no critical attention themselves.” To understand the world is to know it as it is, not as it seems — and thus to be its master, not its slave. It is to reflect upon our reactions to the world and thus bring them, through this distinctive sort of introspection, under our control. It is, in other words, to judge an action based not on how we happen to feel about it but rather on what effect it will actually have 
— that is, consequentially. 
Such a process of reflection is possible, of course: It is what has made possible our scientific understanding of the world — what has made possible, one might whis­per in a hyperbolic moment, civilization itself. But it is hard, exceedingly hard — so hard, in fact, that they painted testaments to it in my mother’s medical school. The ability to see the world from the third-per­son perspective, to divide our thick con­cepts into thin concepts as Blackburn demands, is itself a virtue — one that is, like all virtues, exceedingly fragile, but nonetheless real for that. It takes tremen­dous discipline, exercised continuously over an entire lifetime, to see the facts as they are, not as they first seem to be. As Ludwig Wittgenstein asserted, “If good or bad willing changes the word, it can only change the limits of the word, not the facts; not the things that can be expressed in language. In brief, the world must thereby become quite another. It must so to speak wax or wane as a whole. The world of the happy is quite another than that of the unhappy.” That unhappiness or exhaustion make this kind of good willing impossible does not make objectivity any less of a virtue — does not, that is, make it any less necessary for our flourishing. Without the virtue of objectivity, Blackburn’s consequentialist project can­not even begin. 
This is not to say, of course, that said project fails, for the virtue of objectivity does, in fact, allow us to divide actions from their consequences. And, indeed, it is only because of this consequence — because of our ability to reflectively under­stand and thus control our world and our­selves — that the virtue of objectivity is justified in the first place. There is in this a circularity — while the virtue of objectivity is justified consequentially, that process of justification can only be carried out by means of that virtue — though it is, I take it, a virtuous circularity. To whatever extent rule-circularity is virtuous, anyway. 
One wonders, however, about the future of this virtue: If it is true that, as Blackburn insists, virtue is not to be found in our cul­ture, then our ability to critically reflect upon our reactions to the world must also have collapsed. And, to whatever extent that ability has indeed collapsed, then both our science and our ethics are mere rem­nants, hollow shells of traditions once rich but now incapable of further insight. 
It does not stretch the imagination to think that, in this, Blackburn is right. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his third year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. Listen to his radio show on WVFI at 1 p.m. on Thursdays. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Just think of the tragedy ofteaching children not to doubt.” 
Clarence Darrow 
U.S. lawyer 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I cannot think well of a man who sports with any woman’s feelings;and there may often be a great dealmore suffered than a stander-bycan judge of.” 
Jane Austen English novelist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint Monday, April 18, 2011 page 7 
Yo. You. Right There. Don’t Even Think About Skipping My Final Column! 
So here it is — the final time you will ever have to read my rants and raves about the University of Notre Dame and its oh-so-interesting students (once you get your tears under control, please proceed with caution). Then again, I could be that alumnus in the Viewpoint section. On more than one occasion. As for those who still have to hear my rants until I actu-

Kevin Kimberly 
ally do depart from here, I do 

Bursting the 
not apologize. 

Bubble 
As I have men­tioned in previous columns, I first applied to be a political columnist. My clever title was going to be “Obama Oversight” and I was going to attempt being humorous while cov­ering all of the major political issues of the year. Then I took a walk around campus. And then I realized I did not need to go to D.C. to find a relevant topic to be humorous about. At that moment I switched to the even more clever column name, “Bursting the Bubble.” 
So it began. Topic to topic and group of people to group of people, I did my best to cover the Notre Dame culture, the Notre Dame Bubble if you will. And here is where I get to brag and make crazy causal assumptions to convince you that my columns were a success. 
Your takeaway points: 
Column #1: Dear Freshman — Freshmen look ridiculous wearing lan­yards and walking around with huge maps on campus, are dumb for doing the first-down chop and talking about their high school days and really should steer clear of dating someone they just met a day ago. 
Column #2: Navigating the Dining Hall — Get your food and get out of my way. Have a plan upon arriving at the dining hall, save the socializing for the eating area and by all means, never same side it. 
Column #3: To Cheer or Not to Cheer 
— When you go to football games, go to actually watch the game. Have rea­sonable expectations about the team and be mad when those expectations are not fulfilled. 
Column #4: The Saints Among Us — There are plenty of everyday saints who never get the recognition they deserve, and there are plenty of them on this very campus. Look around! 
Column #5: There Are Things to Cheer For — Football is not the only sport around here and certainly is not the most successful. Other sports and athletes deserve as much respect and attention. 
Column #6: Braving the Winter Wonderland — You heard it here back in November first, not from the recent copycat Viewpoint War. Leggings are unacceptable not because they say anything about the person wearing them but simply because they are ridiculous and are not pants. Add Ugg boots and North Face jackets to the ridiculous, overrated list as well. 
Column #7: My Pick for My Commencement Speaker — Seniors should get some sort of say in who speaks at their commencement. If any Notre Dame class ever gets Ellen DeGeneres (that will be the day), I expect a ticket and a flight to see it. 
Column #8: Your College = Your Personality — The name says it all. Your major and your college at good ol’ Notre Dame allow me to know more about you than you think! 
Column #9: The Notre Dame Need to Belong — The only way for Notre Dame to become the diverse place it actually is at its core is for people to actually be who they are at their core. The obsessive need to fit in is what deprives us of true diversity and true identity. 
Column #10: The Topic of All Topics 
— Gender relations at Notre Dame will forever live on as one of the most interesting things I have ever experi­enced in my life, prompting my call to replace Contemporary Topics with a semester-long course on Gender Relations and Social Awkwardness. But really, all I can say is may the Lord be with you in this endeavor here. 
Column #11: Just Live Your Life — Death should give even more meaning to life. Sometimes it is the tough moments that allow us to realize we need to take advantage of the gift we have been given; sometimes, we need to just live our lives. 
Many columnists in their final col­umn of the year will talk about their purpose in writing and why they write. Many say they just want to touch one person, and if that is the case, they consider their job a success. I say screw that. I had one purpose — to offend more than one person. Sure, I wrote on a truly serious issue here and there, but overall, if you were not offended, I did not do my job or you did not read my eleven columns. And in the process of offending you, I hope you laughed in realizing what I wrote just might be true. Heck, I hope my goal of offending you offends you. 
When I land in my new place of pur­pose in Memphis, Tenn., next year, I will miss this opportunity to compose a 600-800 word column about such a topic. Even more so, for some weird reason, I have a feeling that at times I will even miss those things that I sought to eradicate. Perhaps I will throw on a lanyard for old time’s sake or maybe I will act obsessively awk­ward to that cute coworker of mine. Who knows? What I do know is all that included, I will miss the University of Notre Dame. 
10-4. 
Kevin Kimberly graduates in 34 days. He sincerely appreciates you reading his column this year and is always open to thoughts about his articles and continued ideas and slogans for his potential 2024 presidential run at kkimberl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Anchors away 
Ladies and Gentlemen: 

It is my honor to cordially invite you to be my date for this year’s St. Edward’s Hall Yacht Dance on the 4th evening of May during the year of Our Lord Two-Thousand and Eleven. Yes, that’s right. You have an opportunity to be a part of the most legendary night on campus. 
For those of you who don’t remember, the St. Edward’s Hall Yacht Dance was a shoe-in for the best SYR according to the Scholastic at the beginning of the year. What does that mean? That means feasting in Chicago, cruising around Lake Michigan on the Mystic Blue and dancing the night away in the shadow of the Chicago skyline (yes Duncan, we can actually see the entire skyline.) 
To ensure you that I am not some creepy kid who spends half the day talking to his invisible girlfriend, Melinda, and the other half trying to find a pet Petite Lap Giraffe, here is my match.com blurb: I am a junior from Sandy Springs, Ga. I am the outgoing president of St. Edward’s Hall and I have chosen to carry on this long-stranding and prestigious presidential tradition. I have blue eyes and dirty blonde hair. My hobbies include triathlons, boating, anything football and attending coun­try music concerts. I enjoy a great toothpick, thunderstorms, banana Powerbars and an ice cold Arnold Palmer. My favorite book is The Great Gatsby. My favorite flavor of ice cream is Greater’s Raspberry Chocolate Chip. Last, but far from least, I have a beautiful girlfriend who goes to BC and is currently in Australia. Fortunately for all of my suitors, she has given her blessing upon the date of my choice. 
So now that you know a little about me, you’re probably wondering how do you get the honor of being my date? Here are three easy ways: 
1. 
Go online. The direct link to the survey is: http://mendoza.qualtrics.com/SE/?SID=SV_3g7DkOgIexjbXrC The link would be easy to use off The Observer’s website: www.ndsmcobserver.com (Editors, you’re wel­come for the shameless plug). 

2. 
Attend the Facebook Event: Jay’s Yacht Dance Date. The application link is pro­vided. 


3. Viewpoints. 

Lastly, I encourage everyone to apply. For those of you who have recently applied for an internship/job, you have had to fill out an equal opportunity survey. Well, I am truly an equal opportunity dater. I am looking for the best date no matter your gender, race, size, hair color or physical location. As long as you promise to have a blast as my date, you can be a Notre Dame student, a townie, an alum, a professor or currently in Mumbai, it does not matter. I would like to thank you for your time and for allowing me to chum the waters. I look forward to meeting you, and if you have any questions please do not hesitate to Facebook/email me. 
Remember: I’m on a boat, and you could be too. 
Jay Mathes 
junior St. Edward’s Hall April 14 

Off-campus crime 
To students considering off-campus housing, 
Living off campus is an exciting evolution in the lives of many Notre Dame students. The idea of living without parietals, meal plans and substandard housing (cough cough Morrissey Manor) is tantalizing for many upperclassmen. As an off-campus junior I can absolutely and strongly attest to the benefits of “living off.” However, as a resident of Clover Ridge I vehemently advise students interested in moving to an apartment to look elsewhere. On Thursday, April 14, my two room­mates left to participate in the Thursday ritual of college night at Club Fever. A few minutes later I heard somebody at the door. I rationally assumed that the person was one of my roommates returning for a set of forgotten keys. Upon opening the door, I witnessed a young male tearing the screen off our window and breaking into our apartment. It can not be understated how lucky it was that someone was at our apartment and that the intruder decided to leave immediately. 
In retrospect, this event was a microcosm of the animosity that exists between the South Bend community and the Notre Dame off-campus community. One of our neighbors has been the victim of breaking and entering crimes resulting in theft twice. Tales of students being jumped, girls being shot and the “trunkings” at Notre Dame Apartments remain fresh in every sophomore-through-senior’s mind. It’s an embarrassment to Clover Ridge that the complex is clearly an unsupervised and targeted area, and it’s an embarrassment to our law enforcement that the “major bust” of 2011 is a football player’s DUI. How many students have been ticketed by excise or NDSP this year? Is there better advice that visiting officers can give than “put a broom­stick in your windows?” South Bend law enforcement can pat them­selves on the back all they want for ticketing college students in order to prevent alcohol and drug “abuse,” but too often more serious crimes have remained unpunished and underreported. Off-campus living shouldn’t be a safety gamble for students, and South Bend police should redirect their efforts from persecuting students towards pro­tecting them. 
Andrew Seter 
junior off campus April 15 


The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Monday, April 18, 2011 


By SAM STRYKER 
Scene Writer 

To be honest, I’m not much of a fan 
of horror movies. I have the constitu­
tion of a 12-year-old girl and scary 
movies tend to, well, scare me too 
much. Having said that, I was excited 
to see “Scream 4,” the most recent 
installment of the popular horror 
franchise. 

“Scream 4,” brings the “rules” of 
horror movies into the twenty-first 
century, providing scares, laughs and 
a clever take on the often -tired 
genre. 

Throughout the film, my reaction 
tended to be laughter, punctuated by 
sudden jolts as the body count racked 
up. Characters often provided witty 
commentary on the grisly slaying 
spree of Ghostface, the signature 
masked -murderer of the series. 
“Scream 4” provided enough scares 
to keep my hands close enough to 
cover my eyes when necessary for 
most of the film. 

“Scream 4” stars several returning 
actors from the previous films, along 
with a new generation of potential 
victims. Neve Campbell plays Sidney 
Prescott, survivor of the original 
Woodsboro Murders of the first three films. Courteney Cox and David Arquette return as reporter Gail Weathers and Sheriff Dewey Riley. 
As Sidney returns to Woodsboro to promote her new book, local students start dying in a fashion mirroring Sidney’s past. Sidney’s cousin Jill (Emma Roberts) is a prime target of the killer, along with friends Kirby (Hayden Panettiere) and Olivia (Marielle Jaffe). 
As Dewey and Gail both race to solve the series of murders, Sidney must deal with Ghostface’s signature taunting calls as friends and family fall to the masked murderer in increasingly gruesome ways. 
“Scream 4” is two hours of fun at the movies. Unlike recent horror films that tend to focus on gore, this film is all about suspense, not shock value. Director Wes Craven and pro­ducer Kevin Williamson are masters of the genre, and their mastery of horror allows them to get clever with the subject matter. 
While “Scream 4” — and all the other “Scream” movies for that mat­ter — is certainly scary, its wit makes it stand out in a crowded horror genre. “Scream 4” is self-aware, or “meta,” as characters in the movie say. For instance, two cops comment on the not so stellar track record of policemen surviving in horror films. Additionally, “Scream 4” continues the franchise’s tradition of having a film within a film providing much of the movie’s wit. Cox, pitch-perfect as nasty Gail, and Panettiere, a spunky Kirby, are particularly effective at delivering the biting intellect of Craven’s latest “Scream” installment. 
Part of the film’s success is also a result of a who’s-who list of television and movie stars acting in supporting roles throughout the film, as Anna Paquin, Kristen Bell and Adam Brody all make appearances. 
At times, “Scream 4” gets bogged down between the new cast members and the seasoned veterans. While characters in the film comment on horror films “relaunching” or “rein­venting” themselves, “Scream 4” works best when the new and old characters interact together on screen rather than switching back and forth. 
Additionally, while the movie cer­tainly makes the valid argument of horror films changing within the last decade as a result of advances in technology, it can get somewhat preachy about digital voyeurism. After all, the purpose of the film is to provide some fresh commentary (along with some scares) on a cine­matic genre, not making grand claims about society’s problems. 
Overall, while “Scream 4” may not win any Oscars, it is solid, clever, escapist fun. As macabre as cinemat­ic murder may be, Craven and Williamson mock conventions of the genre while maintaining suspense. The film’s tagline “New Decade. New Rules.” may as well read “New Scares. New Laughs.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
Scream 4 

Dimension Films 
Director: Wes Craven Starring: Courteney Cox, Neve Campbell, DavidArquette, Hayden Panettiere and Emma Roberts 
MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 


The Observer 

Scene
Monday, April 18, 2011 page 9 

MARIA FERNANDEZ/The Observer 
By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 

Name: Ana Marcos 
Spotted: Lewis Hall 
Ana definitely knows how to layer chic and colorful pieces to create her stylish ensemble. She mixed and matched her comfortable skinny jeans and black ballerina flats with a white top and a relaxed purple cardigan. Her pink printed scarf and white leather purse complete this effortless look. Ana is embrac­ing spring with this fun outfit. 

Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 
MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 18, 2011 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish win two, stay in first 
By JACK YUSKO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish won their three-game weekend series with Louisville despite taking their first Big East loss in the series finale Sunday afternoon. Notre Dame notched 8-5 and 4-3 victories in the first two games before falling by a 9-6 score in the finale. 
The No. 24 Irish (31-8, 7-1 Big East) secured their first win in the rain Saturday with a walk-off three-run homerun by freshman outfielder Lauren Stuhr. With the score tied at 5 heading into the bottom of the seventh inning, Stuhr made good use of her only at-bat to hit her second career homerun and win the game with one swing. 
Freshman pitcher Laura Winters threw 23 strikes with her first 24 pitches and senior cap­tain Heather Johnson hit a team-best eighth home run to extend her hitting streak to 19 games. 
“Our offense was great in all three games,” junior outfielder Alexa Maldonado said. “We came through with big hits and scored runs when we needed to.” 
The Irish came from behind in the second game to win 4-3 behind the excellent pitching of sophomore pitcher Brittany O’Donnell. O’Donnell relieved senior starter Jody Valdivia in the third inning and proceeded to shut out Louisville (32-13, 10-4) for the remainder of the game. 
In the third game of the series, the Irish held a six-run lead until the Cardinals rallied in the sixth inning. The Cardinal offense exploded, posting nine runs off nine hits to end Notre Dame’s 14­game winning streak and hand the squad its first conference loss in the process. 


“In the third game our pitching fell apart and the [Cardinals] strung a lot of hits together,” Maldonado said. 
Though they saw a long win­ning streak come to an end on the weekend, the Irish remained positive in the wake of a series win against the team chasing them in the conference standings. 
“We are the best team in the Big East and should win it all,” Maldonado said. “We just need to continue playing how we have been.” 
Maldonado said the team is focusing ahead on an upcoming series with Villanova. 
“We’re just going to continue moving forward,” Maldonado said. “We will work hard this week at practice and will bring our best game to Villanova.” 
The Irish travel Thursday to play Villanova in another Big East series with a doubleheader start­ing at noon and 2 p.m. Thursday and a finale beginning at 11 a.m. Saturday. 
Contact Jack Yusko at jyusko@nd.edu 
PGA TOUR 

Rookie Steele takes title in San Antonio 
Associated Press 

SAN ANTONIO — Rookie Brendan Steele shot a 1­under 71 on Sunday, over­coming relentless wind and fellow first-year PGA Tour player Kevin Chappell to win the Texas Open by a stroke. 
The leader by one heading into the final round, the 28­year-old Steele stayed steady throughout the day, and fin­ished at 8-under. He gave a small fist pump, then thrust his arm downward and smiled broadly to celebrate his first Tour victory after holing out on 18. 
“I was a lot more calm today,” Steele said. “When you’ve got the one shot lead it’s not even your tourna­ment. There’s so many guys that could still win with a good round, without you even doing anything wrong, that I didn’t feel as much pressure.” 
The tournament featured the Tour’s highest scoring average, 73.665, so far this year and Steele’s 280 overall was the highest winning score at the Texas Open since a 283 won the 1934 edition. 
Steele birdied the par-5 second hole, dropping his approach from a bunker to within 10 feet of the pin, then bogeyed the par-4 No. 5, leaving a 12-foot putt from the fringe short. But Steele put his tee shot within three feet of the hole on par-3 No. 
7 to move back to 8 under. 
That’s where he finished. Steele, whose previous best-finish was tied for 17th at the Farmers Insurance Open in San Diego in January, could have padded his lead on No. 9 but left a 17-foot putt short. He then missed a couple of other makeable birdie putts on the back nine, including one that was 6-inches off on the par-3 16th. 
Instead, he settled for 12 straight pars and it was enough to hold off Chappell, who had two birdies on the front nine, then put his sec­ond shot to within seven feet on par-4 No. 10 to grab a share of the lead. 
Chappell, 24, then stayed tied with Steele through seven holes, but hit his 2nd shot on the par-4 17th well right of the hole and then couldn’t make a 10-foot put to save par. 
“I’ll be honest, I think I just fell asleep,” said Chappell, who led UCLA to a national championship in 2008. “I felt the wind was dead into me ... I should have known it was a little left to right.” 
It was the first time since the 2006 Phoenix Open that two Tour rookies finished 1-2 at a tournament. Another rookie, Charl Schwartzel, won last week at the Masters, making this the first time rookies have won back-to-back on Tour since 2002. 
SMC TENNIS 

Lineup changes help Belles defeat Bulldogs 
By JACK HEFFERON and senior Jessica Kosinski, nor-again by cruising to an 8-3 win. strong at the top of their lineup.” the second set last year,” Campbell Sports Writer mally the No. 3 team, into the No. “Those two played very well at The very top of the Knights’ line-said. “She’ll have to be patient and 2 spot. No. 3 doubles,” Campbell said. up is loaded with talent, as the she’ll have to keep her unforced 
As the season winds down, each “Our No. 3 has been winning Looking forward now, the Belles squad features a number of strong errors down, but she should have match for Saint Mary’s takes on pretty handily lately, and our No. 2 will face a very able conference players including senior Melissa a great chance of winning,” increasing importance. Its win on team of [freshman] Mary Therese opponent in tonight’s matchup Oosterhouse playing at No.1 sin-In the end, every match should Saturday against Adrian was a Lee and [senior captain] Franca with Calvin. The Knights (6-8, 4-2) gles and doubles. Oosterhouse is be hotly contested, and the final boost for the Belles in the confer-Peluso has struggled with some have the same record in confer-the reigning MIAA Most Valuable result may come down to the last ence standings, and tonight’s close losses, so we made the ence as Saint Mary’s and are Player and has won her last 11 match. match at Calvin College will be switch,” Campbell said. “Faller arguably its closest MIAA competi-singles matches and her last eight “We’re expecting to play a very another late-season MIAA test. and Kosinski have played so well, tion. With only two conference doubles matches. close match,” Campbell said. 
On Saturday, the Belles (11-6, 4-we wanted to give them a shot matches left for each team, the Saint Mary’s senior captain “Hopefully, we’ll be able to get the 2 MIAA) took down the visiting against some better competition.” winner of tonight’s showdown Jillian Hurley will be tasked with edge tomorrow, and I think we’ll Bulldogs (5-10, 2-5) by a score of Both teams adjusted on the fly could grab the edge in the confer-taking on Oosterhouse in singles be able to.” 7-2. The win came with a new to their new roles. Faller and ence standings and the all-impor-and doubles, but Campbell The match will begin tonight at look in the doubles department, as Kosinski proved they could play at tant tournament seeding. believes Hurley is capable of 4 p.m. in Grand Rapids, Mich. Belles coach Dale Campbell jug-a higher level despite a closely “It’s going to be a great match,” pulling off the upset. gled the pairings by swapping fought 8-6 loss, and Peluso and Campbell said. “They’re a very “She has played [Oosterhouse] Contact Jack Hefferon at freshman Mary Catherine Faller Lee found their winning ways good team and they are especially very close in the past, losing 7-5 in wheffero@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
WANTED 
Aquamarine Anniversary Ring 
Lost in ladies room of North Dining Hall. $100.00 reward for return, no questions asked. Lori (the line lady) 574-226-3876. 
When I got married we could not afford an engagement ring. I was given this ring for my 25th anniver­sary. 
Email haselrick.1@nd.edu 
——————————————— 

PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. 
For more information, 
visit Notre Dame's website: 
http://csap.nd.edu ——————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Don't go it alone. 
Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu. ——————————————— PCB “We would defintley lose our securi­ty deposit.” -Tom 
“You smell that air? You like that smell?” -War Eagle 
“No. Well, yeah, over there.” -Tom 
——————————————— “Sometimes I wonder how good of friends we could be if you didn't have your personality.” 
-Dan 

——————————————— 
“Sometimes, when it's really late, I make faces in the mirror and scare myself.” -Jimmy 
“I wanna see your danger in action.” -Joe 
“I think he might just be dumb.” -Ian ——————————————— “What's the over/under of you shut­ting up tonight?” -Dan 
“It's honestly a miracle we still hang out with you.” -Ian 
——————————————— 
“This may or may not be the best time to tell you but I may owe you a new iPod.” -Tom 
SIGMA EPSILON JW, MO’C, KHL, MC, CB 
——————————————— 
All the crazy [stuff] I did last night, those will be the best memories. ——————————————— 
Waked it. Shaked it. ——————————————— 
358 days of anticipation, beginning, now. ——————————————— 

Monday, April 18, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
SMC GOLF 

Saint Mary’s finishes sixth versus top teams 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
No. 12 Saint Mary’s faced some of the best competition in the country at the Illinois Wesleyan Spring Fling on Sunday, but did not back down en route to a 334 ­stroke day and a sixth-place finish. 
The Belles traveled to Ironwood Golf Club in Normal, Ill., Saturday, ready to come out and score well from the first tee. Their excitement was dampened by rain, as tweather ended all hopes of playing Saturday, and the 36-hole tournament had to be cut to one round Sunday. 
“We hung out all day at the hotel together,” Belles’ senior captain Mary Kate Boyce said. “We had to do our laun­dry since all our equipment was drenched from playing 8 holes in the rain.” 
Sunday came, and the Belles were able to finally take to the course as one of nine national top-25 teams in competition. 
“As a team I think we did pretty good,” Boyce said. “Yes, I would have liked to win the whole thing but we performed well in the condi­tions.” 
Saint Mary ’s final score placed it in elite company. Its team score of plus-46 was better than several national powerhouses, among them No. 7 Centre, No. 17 Wisconsin-Whitewater, and the host, No. 8 Illinois Wesleyan. Boyce led the Belles in that effort with a seven-over 81 that placed her in the top 16 of more than 100 golfers. 

“Individually, I was content with my round,” Boyce said. “I struggled early but I was able to make a couple putts down the stretch that helped me stay in the round mental­ly, and was able to hang on and finish with a decent score.” 
Looking ahead now, Saint Mary’s will have almost two weeks to prepare for the sec­ond and third rounds of the MIAA tournament. The Belles won the tournament last year, and it sprung them to a fourth -place finish at the NCAA tournament. This year, they sit eight strokes behind rival No. 18 Olivet after the first round last week. Saint Mary’s will host the final two rounds April 29-30. 
“We have 11 days to pre­pare,” Boyce said. “They will be filled with lots of practice both physically and mentally. For me, my focus was not as sharp this weekend as it needs to be so I will definitely be working on that.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S ROWING 

ND takes second in West 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 

As cold and rain descended upon South Bend this week­end, a trip to the warm, sunny west coast ended up paying dividends for the Irish rowers. 
Notre Dame finished second in group B at this weekend’s Lake Natoma Invitational on Lake Natoma near Sacramento, Calif. The Irish were placed in that group Sunday based on Saturday’s race results. 
The Irish earned their lone victory of the weekend in Saturday afternoon’s varsity four race when coxswain Christina Dines helped lead the team to a victory in 7:27.00, four seconds ahead of second place Stanford. 
That result, along with those in Saturday’s varsity eight and second varsity eight races, placed Notre Dame in group B Sunday against Wisconsin and Tennessee. The Volunteers, the Irish and the Badgers all ended Sunday tied with 12 points, but Tennessee took first based on its 6:31.10 win in the varsity eight race. Notre Dame fin­ished at 6:33.00 and Wisconsin clocked in at 6:34.00. 
Notre Dame coach Martin Stone was pleased with the weekend’s results. 
“I think that [the Invitational] went well,” Stone said. “The [varsity eight] today had a great race in beating Wisconsin and came up just a couple seconds short of Tennessee. So I think [it went] fairly successful. We finished against some very, very fast teams.” 
While it was important to race well on the water, there were additional rewards to heading out west. The Invitational provided some great experience, with the Irish competing against Stanford, California and Brown, who have combined for six of the past seven national championships. Facing the tough squads could also prove beneficial when it comes time for selections to be made for the NCAA cham­pionships in late May. 
“We want to race the best,” Stone said. “In our sport, you have to race very fast teams to get faster. And when the committee starts to look at who they think should go to the NCAA, they look and see if you went out and took a risk and raced somebody [good].” 

With the Big East champi­onships coming up in just two weeks, Stone is still looking for improvement. However, he is impressed with the team’s overall direction. 
“Being strong individually within each race from each boat, there’s [still] some things to work on. But, gener­ally, I think we’re just moving along, following the plan.” 
The Irish will be in action next May 1 at the Big East championships in West Windsor, N.J., where they hope to secure their eighth consecutive conference crown. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Resilient Irish bring home first place honors 
states. men’s team, senior Denes Veres meter dash with a time of 55.93 peted in the Long Beach State 
By SAM GANS 

Notre Dame’s weekend offi-came in first in the second flight and Urssery finished first in the Invitational. Senior Rudy Atang 
Sports Writer 

cially got underway Thursday at 54.08 meters, while senior 200-meter dash at 26.19. came in third in the shotput at as senior distance runner Greg Davis’ 56.24 meter effort Freshman Alexa Aragon and 15.10 meters and sophomore 
With the Big East and NCAA Daniel Jackson raced in the was strong enough to earn him fifth-year student Lindsey Rebecca Tracy came in second championships fast approach-10,000-meter race at the Mt. fourth in the third flight. Ferguson were also victorious in the 800-meters with a time of ing and a number of athletes SAC Relays in Walnut, Calif. The bulk of the meets took in their respective races. 2:07.21. Veres had his second trying to cut down on finish Jackson completed the contest place Saturday in action split On the men’s side, seniors strong day at Long Beach, com-times and qualify for champi-in 29:28.61, fast enough to earn between Indiana and California. Paul Springer and Thomas Noel ing in fifth place in the shotput onships, there are very few light fifth place. Despite poor weather condi-each won events, with Springer at 17.30 meters. weeks in April for Notre Dame. Action continued Friday as tions, the Irish were able to coming in first in the 5,000-After a demanding weekend, 
But even with all those goals, Notre Dame’s throwers compet-take home seven first-place fin-meter race at 15:09.99 and the Irish get a much deserved there still are not many stretch-ed in the Azusa Pacific ishes from the Dave Rankin Noel winning the 3,000-meter week off, before again hitting es of days that are quite as busy Invitational in Los Angeles. Invitational in West Lafayette, steeplechase in 9:41.19. Patrick the track April 28-30 for the as this past weekend, either. Sophomore Madeline Casanova Ind. Feeney’s 22.67 time in the 200-Drake Relays and Hillsdale Gina The Irish competed in four dif-finished ninth in the second For the women’s squad, fresh-meter dash earned him first as Relays. ferent events over three days flight of the hammer throw on man sprinters Michelle Brown well. this weekend, with the squad the women’s side, with a dis-and Aijah Urssery each notched Also on Saturday, back in Contact Sam Gans at scattered across two different tance of 45.80 meters. For the a victory. Brown won the 400-California, Irish athletes com-sgans@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Saint Mary’s cancels doubleheader, will reschedule 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
The Belles’ home double­header was cancelled this weekend due to rain. The matchup against conference opponent Olivet, which was scheduled for Saturday, has been postponed indefinitely. 
The postponement is the third doubleheader on Saint Mary’s schedule to be can-celled due to rain. The first two, a March 23 matchup against Goshen and a March 26 matchup against North Park, have yet to be made up, and this third postponement presents even more scheduling difficulties for Saint Mary’s. 

“We are having a tough scheduling time until then because they [Olivet] have three games next week and then we have Easter … so we might actually play it in May … but I am not sure yet,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. 
All three of the cancelled doubleheaders were Saint Mary’s home games. The fact that the games against Olivet (10-14, 0-6 MIAA) represent MIAA matchups makes it imperative that the teams make up the contests before the conference tournament, which begins on May 5. 

The Belles (12-11, 1-5 MIAA) have struggled lately, having won only two of their last 10, but hope to finish strong and salvage their season. Sullivan said that the postponement was beneficial to her team, as it provides some key players with more rest as they prepare for the season’s final stretch. 
“It is actually a good thing,” she said. “A couple of my kids are coming back from injury over the last week, so it will be a good thing that we have a lit­tle bit more time off. There are a couple of starters that just need a little more time off.” 
Saint Mary’s will return to action Tuesday when it hosts MIAA foe Hope in a double­header. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at 
jmonardo@nd.edu 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 18, 2011 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish step up in clutch to handle Marquette 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
The No. 22 Irish took down Marquette by a tally of 6-1 in Milwaukee Sunday behind a sweep in the singles portion of the matchup. Juniors Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews, freshman Jennifer Kellner, sen­ior Kristen Rafael, sophomore Chrissie McGaffigan and fresh­man Julie Sabacinski took the six singles matches without anyone dropping a set. Frilling and Mathews took the No. 1 doubles matchup earlier in the day. 
“We definitely needed to win this match, especially since Marquette is in the Big East and we are getting ready for the conference tournament,” Frilling said. 
McGaffigan said the team struggled in doubles despite the singles domination. 

“We were pretty solid in our singles matches,” McGaffigan said “But we need to pick it up in doubles.” 
Frilling, the No. 4 ranked player in the country, moved to 16-2 in the dual season and claimed her 82nd career win. Mathews moved to 15-3, Kellner went to 17-3 after win­ning her sixth straight match, and Rafael won her fourth straight match. 
Heading into singles, Notre Dame (12-9) trailed as Marquette (17-9) took the No. 2 and No. 3 doubles matchups. McGaffigan and Rafael fell 8-6 and Kellner and Sabacinski dropped their match 8-5. But after the singles sweep, the Irish came out with a decisive victory. 
“It is always exciting to get a win against a conference oppo­nent,” McGaffigan said. “We are hoping that our momentum from this match will carry through next week against DePaul.” 
Sunday was the first time Notre Dame dropped the dou­bles point all season. In their previous 20 matchups, the Irish dominated in doubles and always gave themselves a lead heading into singles. 
After the victory, the Irish have one more regular season matchup, against DePaul Saturday at home at 1 p.m. 
“We will keep working hard on playing aggressive but con­sistent tennis,” McGaffigan said. “[Marquette and DePaul] are great preparation for the Big East tournament.” 
The conference tournament runs from April 28 to May 1 at the Eck Tennis Center. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
BASEBALL 

Irish fall in series against WVU 


By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish pitching staff went head-to-head with the top offense in the Big East this weekend as Notre Dame dropped two of three in a weekend series with West but defensively 

“[In the opener] we had
Virginia. Notre we fell short. Dame dropped more opportunities to But we grinded Sunday’s finale win the game it out in the 8-1 after split-second game 
offensively, but we gifted
ting a day-night [of the double-
them with the win.” 
doubleheader header].” Friday. T h e 
Due to the Mountaineer 
Mik Aoki 
threat of bad bats showed up 
Irish coach 

weather Saturday, the first two games of the weekend series were played Friday in a day-night doubleheader. The schedule change did little to avoid the harsh weather in South Bend, as torrential rain and wind gusts topping 50 miles per hour turned Friday after­noon’s opener into a sloppy affair. A pair of unearned runs in the 10th inning staked West Virginia (22-15, 8-4) to a 6-4 vic­tory in a wild game. After rally­ing back from a 3-0 first-inning deficit, the Irish (15-18-1, 6-7) 
forced extra innings. In the Mountaineer half of the 10th, with the game tied at 4-4, errors from senior third baseman Greg Sherry and fresh­man relief pitcher Sean Fitzgerald allowed West with a 2-for-3 night, including an RBI double as the Irish won 5-2. Irish coach Mik Aoki had mixed feelings on the Friday split. 

“[In the opener] we had more opportunities to win the game offensively, but we gifted them with the win,” he said. “There was plenty of blame to have gone around 
in Sunday’s 
rubber game, 
as senior short­
stop Grant Buckner paced the West Virginia attack with a two-run homerun and three RBIs in an 8-1 win. West Virginia pitcher Andy Berry squashed any hope of an Irish comeback with a standout com­plete game three-hitter on the mound, allowing only a solo homerun to Mancini. 
“The mix Berry had with his fastball and his changeup was the difference-maker,” Aoki said. “It is not like he was throwing in the upper 80’s; he was just able 
“Really I was disappointed with the defense that put us in a hole regardless of the number of hits that made it extremely difficult for us to do anything.” 
Mik Aoki Irish coach 
Virginia to push across two runs and earn the 6-4 win. 
Notre Dame fought back to earn a win in the nightcap, as senior right-hander Cole Johnson tossed 6.1 innings of one-run ball and junior left field­er Alex Robinson led the offense to dictate our rhythm and offense.” 

Irish senior starting pitcher Todd Miller dropped to 3-3 on the year after allowing eight runs in five innings of work on the day. Two Irish errors led to five unearned runs in the West Virginia fifth inning and blew the lead open for 
the Mountaineers. Aoki said he was displeased with the team defense in the series. 
“Really I was disappointed with the defense that put us in a hole regardless of the number of hits that made it extremely diffi­cult for us to do anything,” he said. “The errors gave them the runs and we put Todd in a really difficult position. That was pretty disappointing. The series was ultimately decided by the fact that we made more mistakes than they did.” 
The Irish play a mid-week non-conference game Tuesday night against Toledo at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

Monday, April 18, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
Corrigan 
continued from page 16 
freshman attack Colin Keegan recorded two goals in the quar­ter, completing a hat trick in just the first half and leading St. John’s to a 4-0 advantage in the second quarter. 
“We were awful in the first half,” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. “They played really well. They played inspired, very smart and good with the ball. They made us pay for our mistakes, and they kept the ball away from us, [which] kept us from making any plays to get any momentum. Great first half by them, lousy by us.” 
Heavy rain and even snow caused the Irish to slip on the turf in a few key situations and the ball could not find its way into their sticks, as they had trouble maintaining solid possessions throughout the second quarter. 
Corrigan took advantage of halftime to let the team thaw out and slow down its game. 
“I just said, ‘We need goals, we haven’t been scoring. We’ve got time to make the plays we need to make, and we have to be aggressive about making them,’” Corrigan said. 

Irish sophomore attack Ryan Foley fired back less than two minutes into the second half and three different Irish players fol­lowed with goals in the quarter. Senior midfielder David Earl scored in the clutch, as the Irish were a man-up when his first goal went in the net, giving the Irish a 7-6 lead. 
“We wanted to come out in a 10-man ride, but we ended up not having to do it because we jumped out in the first couple possessions and scored. So we didn’t do it, but I think we got into a more aggressive mentality, and it allowed us to make some plays,” Corrigan said. 
St. John’s was not done fight­ing, and Keegan added his fourth goal of the day to keep the Red Storm in the game. 
“[Keegan] was a good inside guy. I think he had a couple [scores] right on the doorstep and one a man-up,” senior defense-man Kevin Ridgway said. “It was hard to try and find where he was all night.” 
The resilient Irish fans that remained through the first 45 minutes were up on their feet for the majority of the fourth quarter, as the Irish looked to break a 7-7 tie. Earl stepped up again, adding two goals in the final quarter, and sophomore midfielder Steve Murphy also pitched in a goal to cap off a 10-7 Irish victory. 
The Irish collected more shots on goal in the second half, shoot­ing 25 compared to St. John’s 13. Seven players scored for the Irish, including two goals from senior midfielder Zach Brenneman and a hat trick from Earl. 
“I thought I played well,” Earl said. “Luckily, today I got a lot of good opportunities to score, and I was able to put a few of those away. A lot of guys have been scoring for us this year. I think we have 10 or 13 guys who have put up numbers for us, so it makes it hard for other teams to play against us on defense.” 
Corrigan said he is excited for his 15 seniors who have con­tributed to a memorable four years at Notre Dame. 
“[They are] a terrific group of kids,” he said. “I mean, ‘what can you say about a group?’ They’ve had a pretty good run here the last four years, but I hope they’re not done yet. There’s still a lot of lacrosse left to play, and we found out tonight there’s nobody out there that can’t beat you if you don’t come to play.” 

No. 1 Syracuse lost earlier in the week, which means that the Irish will undoubtedly take over the number one ranking with a 9­0 record. 
“It’s a wonderful thing for these guys,” Corrigan said. “It doesn’t change anything about what we’re going to do on Monday, but it’s a wonderful thing for our guys. “I’m proud of them. It’s a great accomplishment to be the last undefeated team left in the country. I’m excited for them, but we’ve got to get back to work on Monday because this was not a great performance by us.” 

The Irish return to action Wednesday against Providence at noon. 
Contact Megan Golden at Mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
Coyne 
continued from page 16 
Kahn was held pointless for the first time in her career. 
“They weren’t expecting our defensive strategy and we did a good job disrupting some of the stuff they were doing,” Coyne said. “We played well as a unit.” 
During a nearly 20-minute stretch spanning both halves, the Irish scored seven consecutive goals, including the first five in the second half. Blaney scored three of her four goals dur­ing this run. 
With the win, Notre Dame remains in contention for one of the four Big East tournament spots. The Irish are currently tied in fourth place with Louisville. 
“The atmosphere on cam­pus was great and we played the best that we’ve played in a while,” Coyne said. “I hope we can get a streak going.” 
The Irish look to continue their winning ways when they take on Vanderbilt in Nashville, Tenn., Wednesday. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Huffer, Irish in control of first 
“Big East feels a little
ond-seeded squad, complet-Kristina Nhim ment was the 
ed the first 18 holes in 295 and senior different just because of off -course So-Hyun Park our rival Louisville, but experience . 
are both one On Saturday 
other than that we treat
stroke behind night, all of at 73 (plus -it as a regular the competing 
one). tournament” men ’s and Freshman women’s Nicole Zhang, squads were 
Kristina Nhim
ranked No. invited to an 40 in the Irish freshman event high ­than that we treat it as a regular tournament,” Nhim said. “Conditions were great, the weather was real­ly nice and not so hot and humid.” 
One difference between 
the conference champi ­onship and a typical week­end tourna ­
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 

The Irish began their hunt for a fourth Big East title with a strong opening round 
of the Big East champi ­onship Sunday, finishing the day atop the eight -team field. Notre Dame, the sec-strokes (seven over par), 12 strokes ahead of second ­place Georgetown. 
The No. 25 Irish also domi­nated the individual leader-board. Junior Becca Huffer currently leads the field of 40 competitors with a stroke total of 72 (even), and freshman 

nation, cur ­rently sits tied for 12th place after a round of 77 (plus-five), and senior cap­tain Katie Conway is one stroke behind in 17th place. 
Nhim said the team was generally pleased with its performance. 
“I know that Becca [Huffer] had a lot of pars, and So-Hyun [Park] played lights out and had a bunch of birdies. We all played a little more consistently, but we still left a lot of shots out there, ” Nhim said. “Personally, I started hitting many more greens and put­ting well, and I think placing your ball well and putting are key to playing well.” 
The Irish enjoyed the atmosphere and conditions at the Island Course at the Innisbrook Resort in Palm Harbor, Fla., which is host­ing the Big East champi ­onship for the second time. 
“Big East feels a little dif­ferent just because of our rival Louisville, but other Browne. 
l i g h t e d  b y  a  
s p e e c h  f r o m  
f o r m e r  P G A  
To u r  c o m p e t i t o r  O l i n  

“Olin Browne’s speech was really cool; he talked about how golf is really a journey and that you have to keep plugging away at it and keep trying,” Nhim said. 
Despite the early lead, Notre Dame will have to “keep plugging away” over the last two rounds in order to take home the Big East title. Irish rival No. 36 Louisville is in third place with a score of 308 (plus-20) and host South Florida is fourth at 310 (plus -22). Rutgers (plus-24), St. Johns (plus-31), Cincinnati (plus­
32) and Seton Hall (plus-64) finish out the eight -team field. 
The Irish head back to the links for the second round of the Big East championship at 8 a.m. Monday morning. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, April 18, 2011 
Lynch 
continued from page 16 
in which the Irish lack depth, namely running back and corner­back. Irish fans were given their first glance at some of the young play­ers that will take on a more prominent role on the squad next season or, in a few cases, have already made the jump from high school to college as early enrollees and could appear on the Notre Dame depth chart once fall rolls around. Defensive end Aaron Lynch showed off the skills that made him a coveted five-star recruit by top programs across the country. The early enrollee notched seven tackles on the afternoon, includ­ing one-and-a-half for loss. Freshman tight end Alex Welch was the leading receiver for the Blue team, reeling in four passes for 34 yards. Kelly said the Cincinnati, Ohio, native was one of the players who helped himself the most with his spring perform­ance. Despite recording just two tack­les, freshman defensive tackle Louis Nix showed how large of a physical presence he could be over the next few years for the Irish, beginning this fall. Much of his impact depends on his willing­ness to get in game-shape and keep his weight under control. While the 27,863 fans in atten­dance were finally rewarded by the highly anticipated first looks at freshman quarterback Andrew Hendrix and early enrollee Everett Golson, the coaches did not learn much they did not already know about their young signal callers, or the other two quarterbacks in the competition for that matter. Junior Dayne Crist, the man who was handed the job last spring after the departure of Jimmy Clausen, looked rusty in his per­formance and consistently missed his targets. That, however, should be no surprise considering it was the first game action he has seen since rupturing the patellar ten­don in his left knee Oct. 30 against Tulsa. Freshman Tommy Rees made some strong throws and was mostly solid on the afternoon. While he and Crist did not receive as much playing time as the younger two, Rees, who led the Irish to a 4-0 finish in 2010, did not hurt his chances at earning the starting nod for Notre Dame’s Sept. 3 matchup against South Florida. Hendrix and Golson exhibited flashes of brilliance, but also reminded everyone that they have a combined zero snaps in regular season action at the colle­giate level. While it will be an uphill battle for each of the two to earn the starting job in fall camp, either could be a nice change-of­pace at the quarterback position to the less mobile Crist and Rees. In the end, however, it will be dif­ficult for Kelly to overlook the experience and skills that Crist can offer. If you take away the Tulsa game and the first half of the Michigan game, the two con­tests in which he was injured, Crist threw for over 2,000 yards and 15 touchdowns in less than eight games. His leadership skills and the talent that made him a five-star recruit give Notre Dame the best chance to pursue a Bowl Championship Series bid in 2011. Kelly acknowledged in the postgame press conference that a decision on the starting signal caller will be made early in fall camp. The last time Notre Dame entered the fall with a quarter­back controversy, then-head coach Charlie Weis decided to enter the season opener without an announced starter at the posi­tion in 2007. The opponent, Georgia Tech, did not know, the fans did not know, but most importantly, neither did any of the Notre Dame players, including the three quarterbacks. The deci­sion was disastrous, and was one of the contributing factors in the nightmarish 0-5 start. Kelly won’t make that same mistake. So, while the Blue-Gold exhibition does not earn Notre Dame a win in the standings, it gives the team a bright finish to spring practices and some excitement heading into fall camp and the 2011 sea­son. 

The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


Walker 
continued from page 16 
recovering to finish the front nine at one-over-par. However, he bogeyed three of the final four holes and finished with a five­over-par 76. Kubinski said Walker should be ready on Monday after identifying a problem in his swing. 
“Chris played really well for a while but those last four holes he just hit the ball poorly,” he said. 

“He never really hit that well all day. He’s a good ball striker and ordinarily he’ll hit 12-14 greens, but today he only hit five or six.” 
Sunday’s weather and course conditions made the going difficult for all competitors. The Copperhead Course hosted the PGA’s Transitions Championship from March 17-20. The course must be adjusted for professional golfers and changed back to its normal layout after hosting the Transitions. Kubinski said this change made for some difficult greens that, in addition to swirling wind, challenged his team. 
“They did some adjustment to the greens which created some really tough areas,” he said. “Plus the wind was difficult. If wind stays steady, we have no problem with it, even if its 15 to 20 miles per hour.” 
Notre Dame returns to action today for the second round of the Big East championships. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
Golson 
continued from page 16 
While Golson handled the majority of the snaps for the Blue, the versatile Hendrix did not disappoint in a similar role for the Gold. Hendrix finished with 150 yards of total offense, including 113 yards through the air, to go along with a game-high two rushing scores. 
Saturday’s scrimmage marked Hendrix’ first live-action snaps in Notre Dame Stadium. 
“It felt awesome,” he said. “Knowing that I was on the bench the entire last year, to get out there and actually play, in a stadium that was half full but felt like it was full, it was a real­ly special experience.” 
While far from a perfect game simulation, Kelly said Saturday’s scrimmage gave the coaching staff a better idea of the strengths and weaknesses of his young quarterbacks, in addition to valuable live snaps. 
“I thought it was a great, great opportunity for [Golson and Hendrix] in a game-like atmosphere,” Kelly said. “We had a nice crowd early on when they got in there before the rains really hit, and I think they got that sense of playing in a big time atmosphere.” 
Quarterback Dayne Crist may be accustomed to the atmos­phere of the stadium, but the junior had not experienced live action since injuring his knee Oct. 30 during Notre Dame’s 28­27 loss to Tulsa. Wearing a non-contact red jersey, Crist showed signs of a quarterback who missed the last four games of the season, finishing with 34 yards on 5-of-11 passing for Blue. 
“It was sloppy,” Crist said. “It’s tough when you split up a team close and have the scrim­mage and stuff like that. But you know you do some things well, and obviously didn’t do [others] as well. But I think it was a good ending.” 

Rees, Crist’s replacement in 2010, finished with 61 yards on 7-of-14 passing for Gold while also wearing a non-contact jer­sey. While neither signal caller found the end zone, Kelly said Rees lived up to his reputation as an accurate passer. 
“[Rees] can see the field,” Kelly said. “He had three legiti­mate drops out there today where he put the ball right on. I think in terms of accuracy today, and again I’ll go back and watch the film, but I think Tommy was the most accurate in throwing the football.” 
Kelly emphasized that the scrimmage will do little to determine which quarterback starts the first game of the sea­son behind center, but added that it could help determine which receives the most reps when fall practices begin. 
On the defensive side, a num­ber of players made their case for increased reps when prac­tice resumes. Sophomore out­side linebacker Dan Fox tallied seven tackles while freshman linebacker Prince Shembo added six of his own. 
Early enrollee Aaron Lynch may have made the strongest impression in the coaching staff’s eyes. Lynch tallied seven tackles and penetrated the Gold pocket on a number of occa­sions. 
“I told him after the game that I can’t wait to see him do that to other quarterbacks,” Hendrix said. “It was pretty painful.” 
Despite Lynch’s impact Saturday, Kelly reaffirmed that Lynch’s transition onto the field in the fall will be a complete process and will not be rushed. 
“He’s a good football player,” Kelly said. “You know, we’ve got to go slow with him. The one thing that he did today is he went against our first offensive linemen. He went against [junior] Trevor Robinson and [senior] Taylor Dever. But it’s going to be a process with him.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


Monday, April 18, 2011 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Monday, April 18, 2011 page 16 
FOOTBALL 

Four quarterbacks 

Young talent impresses showcase athleticism Hendrix, Golson Kelly, Irish faithful 
Notre Dame had a winning
By CHRIS MASOUD 
outcome Saturday — not just
Sports Writer 
because it was playing itself, but also because all three objectivesThe numbers are almost outlined by Irish coach Brianidentical: the Gold squad fin-Kelly wereished with 266 yards of total met. He and offense compared to the Blue the coachingsquad’s 262, each converted staff wanted16 first downs and neither to avoid team scored a touchdown until injuries, pro-the second half. But led by vide somefreshmen quarterbacks playing timeTommy Rees and Andrew for theHendrix, Gold earned a 17-14 younger 
Andrew Owens
victory over Blue on a wet players and,Saturday afternoon. 
more specifi-
Associate
Blue quarterback and early 
cally, get an Sports Editor
enrollee Everett Golson led all extended quarterbacks with 153 yards look at the of total offense, including a two inexperienced quarterbacks game-high 62 yards on the competing for the starting job. 
ground. Golson also accounted Outside of a couple minorfor the only touchdown pass of bumps and bruises, Notre Dame the game, a 15-yard strike to completed the 82nd Blue-Goldjunior wide receiver John Game unscathed. This is espe-Goodman to pull Blue within cially important at the positions three in the fourth quarter. KIRBY McKENNA/The Observer 

Early-enrollee quarterback Everett Golson carries the ball during the Blue-Gold game Saturday. see GOLSON/page 14 Golson finished with 62 rushing yards and 91 passing yards. see LYNCH/page 14 



WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Tamasitis earns mark in record books; Irish top UConn 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS Sports Writer  Saturday. Ta m a s i t i s t i e d a record for assists in  s ch o o l a game  that day,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. “Assists are hard to get , but s he wa s see i n g  five ground balls, three draw c o n t r o l s an d f i v e c a u s e d turnovers.  career performance by mak­ing seven saves. Of the five goals allowed, three of them  
w h i l e  a l s o  e x t e n d i n g  he r  things very well.”  “This  was  a  complete game  came from free-position shots.  
Nothing could stop Irish jun- points streak to 31 games, the  Senior midfielder Kailene  for her and she hasn’t had  With  a  combined 68 goals  
ior attack Maggie Tamasitis  — fourth longest stretch in Irish  Abt and senior attack Ansley  o ne  o f  t ho se  in  a  wh i l e,”  c o m i ng  i nt o  t h e  g a m e ,  
not  the wind,  not  the rain,  history. In 2009, Notre Dame  Stewart each provided three  Coyne said.  Connecticut’s M.E. Lapham  
a n d  c e r t a i n l y  no t  t he  attack Gina Scioscia handed  goals of their own to pace the  Notre Dame (6-7, 3-2 Big  a nd  L a u r e n  K a h n  p o s ed  a  
Co n n ec t i cu t  d e f e n se.  o u t  s i x  a s s i st s  a n d  K e r ry  Irish offensive outburst.  E a s t ) p e p pe r e d  th e  H u s k y  tough challenge for the Irish,  
Ta mas i t i s  t ur n e d  i n  a n  Callahan accomplished the  Not to be overshadowed by  defense with 37 shots in the  who passed the test with fly- 
impressive performance,  as  same feat in 1999.  Tamasitis’ big day was senior  g am e , ne a r l y d o ubl i ng t he  ing colors. Lapham scored  a  
t h e  at t a c k  d i s h e d  o u t  s i x  “Anytime you have  an  ath­ midfielder Shaylyn Blaney.  number by Connecticut (6-6,  t eam -hi g h three goa ls a nd  
assists in Notre Dame’s 15-5  lete that ties  a  long-standing  Blaney filled up the stat sheet,  0-4). Irish sophomore goalie  
w in  o v er  t h e  H us k i e s  record, they’re in the  zone  tallying four goals, one assist,  E ll ie Hilli n g follo we d up  a  see COYNE/page 13  

MEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish rally, stun Red Storm 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 

Sports Writer  
Fans were on the edge of their  
seats Saturday as the No. 2 Irish  
fought back from a three-point  
deficit to seal a 10-7 victory over  
Big East foe St. John’s on senior  
day.  
Irish senior long-stick midfield­ 
er Andrew Irving opened the  
match with a goal to put the Irish  
(9-0, 4-0 Big East) up 1-0. Just  
three minutes later, the Red  
Storm (4-7, 2-2) responded and  
exchanged a pair of goals with  
the Irish, as Notre Dame took a 2­ 
1 lead into the second quarter.  
The Irish have outscored their  
opponents in the second quarter  
this season, but they could not  
catch a break during those 15  
minutes Saturday. Red Storm see CORRIGAN/page 13  JULIE HERDER/The Observer Irish junior midfielder Eric Keppeler recorded one goal in Notre Dame’s 12-8 win over Villanova Apr. 2.  

MEN’S GOLF 

ND tied for first at Big East championship 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame entered the Big East championship Sunday as the top seed, and after one round of play has lived up to expectations, finishing in a tie for first with Louisville. 
Irish coach Jim Kubinski said his team did exactly what he wanted on the first day in Palm Harbor, Fla., on the Innisbrook Resort’s Copperhead course. 
“The guys did a good job,” he said. “On the first day you just want to play solid and stay with­in contact. They accomplished the mission today.” 
Junior Max Scodro led the Irish with a one-under-par 70 to finish the day tied for third in the individual standings. Freshman Niall Platt also played well in his first Big East championships action, carding a one-over-par 72 to finish in a tie for sixth indi­vidually. 
Kubinski praised Scodro’s efforts, but said he missed on a few opportunities. 
“Max shot it best,” Kubinski said. “He had a few chips where if he hit it like he normally does he could easily have ended up with a 66 or 67.” 
Overall the Irish finished with a nine-over-par 293 for the day. The team score would have improved markedly without jun­ior Chris Walker’s uncharacter­istic struggles. Walker opened the day with a double bogey, 
see WALKER/page 14 







