
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 



Student survives cancer, gives back 
Junior overcomes breast cancer, helps research effective treatments on campus 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
During the fall semester of her freshman year, doc­tors diagnosed junior Court­ney Rauch with breast can­cer. Two years and numerous surgeries later, Rauch is now cancer-free and is actively involved in breast cancer re­search on campus. 
“[Breast cancer has] kind of given me the mentality that you don’t wait for things,” Rauch said. “I try to make the most out of everything that I do here. Coming in, I knew I only have four years here and I have to make the most of col­lege, but the fact that I had to miss school and, occasionally, I thought I would have to stay 
Photo courtesy of Courtney Rauch 

home an entire semester … I dedicate myself to everything Courtney Rauch, middle, stands with friends at a Making Strides for Breast Cancer event last I do as much as I can.” October. Rauch was diagnosed with breast cancer during her freshman year and is now cancer-free. 
Rauch said her family and friends supported her for all of my friends, because mediately drawn to a research patients so you know which throughout the past two years freshman year — that’s a lot opportunity with Department treatment … they would re-as her cancer returned over to handle,” Rauch said. “My of Applied Mathematics chair spond to,” Rauch said. “The and over again. She stayed friends did such a great job of Steven Buechler. way it is now, a lot of people in school, but traveled home keeping me positive.” “He’s doing research where get chemo when they don’t ac-multiple times for doctors’ As an applied mathematics he’s not really finding a cure tually need chemo. The chemo visits and surgeries. major and a breast cancer pa-for cancer, but he’s finding out 
“I have tremendous thanks tient, Rauch said she was im-ways to group breast cancer see CANCER/page 5 


USC game weekend handled smoothly 

By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
While students and faculty enjoyed Fall Break, Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) and the Game Day Operations staff were hard at work preparing for Notre Dame’s first night game in over 20 years. 
Mike Seamon, director for Game Day Operations and asso­ciate vice president of Campus Safety, said the preparations and execution of the weekend’s festivities went smoothly, espe­cially considering the massive undertaking of readying cam­pus for a night game. 
“People thought the atmo­sphere and the energy in the stadium were really great. We thought it was a lot of good positive energy and people were excited,” Seamon said. “We’ve heard a lot of really good feed-

see GAMEDAY/page 6 
Malpass elected to TIFF board 
Observer Staff Report 
Scott Malpass, vice presi­dent and chief investment of­ficer at Notre Dame, was re­cently elected to the board of The Investment Fund for Foun­dations (TIFF), ac­cording to a University press re­lease. 
The foun­dat ion’s goal is to enhance investment returns of Scott Malpass 

U.S. non­profit orga­nizations, the release stated. TIFF currently manages more than $9.5 billion for more than 750 endowed charities. 
TIFF Chief Investment Of­ficer Richard Flannery said Malpass’s work at Notre Dame 


see MALPASS/page 6 
Archaeology class travels to Ireland 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Explore Celtic Iron Age ruins? Check. Examine six-thousand-year-old Neolithic agricultural land? Check. Survive a gale that suspended the ferry system? Check. 
Rain or shine, 12 Notre Dame students in the Archae­ology of Ireland class ven­tured out each day during Fall Break to study the interdisci­plinary facets of archaeology in coastal Ireland. 
Professor Ian Kuijt, who has taught the course for the past five years, said the trip offered students an experi­ence of the country far more intensive than that available to casual visitors. 
“[There is] an adaptive, spontaneous aspect to it. You see sites off the beaten track, not ones you’d take a tourist bus to,” Kuijt said. “Most are in remote locations and [stu­dents] probably won’t ever see them again.” 
Kuijt planned this year’s trip in collaboration with Di­rector of Irish Studies Chris Fox and received funding from Richard Sweetman, ’58. 
Kuijt, accompanied by John O’Neill, a professor at Ireland’s Carlow College, led students in exploring five to eight sites each day. Each student took charge of a site, preparing a tour with write-ups and maps. 

“When we went to the site, [the student site leader] had to wear a very attractive red safety vest and give a tour for 30 to 40 minutes. They were essentially in charge of that educational moment,” Kuijt said. “That person always got to go on the site first, because it was theirs.” 

Some of the sites included areas where Kuijt had done archeological surveys in the past, including Omey Island and Inisbofin. Kuijt and his students were prevented from visiting one of their planned sites by an intense gale that shut down the necessary ferry. 
Kuijt said the students dealt well with the severe weather conditions. 
see IRELAND/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Activists discuss proliferation page 5 u Viewpoint page 8 u Things to do in South Bend page 10 u Kapron Lewis-Moore out for the season page 20 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT OTHER SONGS WOULD YOU HAVE LIKED TO HEAR DURING SATURDAY’S FOOTBALL GAME? 


Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
William  Caitlin  Christian  
Elizabeth Tracy  Dotterweich  Bridget Murphy  Monesmith  McWilliam  Karina Dube  
freshman Lewis  junior Standford  junior Breen-Phillips  senior Howard  freshman Dillion  freshman Lewis  
“Just the band.”  “Christmas songs.”  “‘Land Down Under.’”  “‘My Heart Will Go On.’”  “‘State of Massachusetts’ by the Dropkick  “The band.”  
Murphys.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Millions of bees shut down Utah highway 
SALT LAKE CITY — A flatbed truck carrying hun­dreds of beehives over­turned near a construction zone on a Utah highway, freeing millions of bees and forcing authorities to tempo­rarily close Interstate 15, of­ficials said on Monday. 
“The driver lost control, hit the concrete barrier and rolled over. Of course, we then had bees everywhere,” said Corporal Todd Johnson with the Utah Highway Pa­trol. 
The highway in southern Utah was shut down for sev­eral hours on Sunday eve­ning and Monday morning, officials said. 
Local beekeepers worked through the night to gather the escaped bees. Officials said there was a net over the beehives but bees still managed to escape after the truck overturned. 
The truck driver and two law enforcement officers responding to the accident were stung by bees but the stings were not life-threat­ening, Johnson said. 
Man, 87, nabbed with 228 pounds of cocaine 
DETROIT — An 87-year­old Indiana man was ar­raigned on drug charges in federal court in Detroit on Monday after police found 228 pounds of cocaine worth an estimated $2.9 million in his pickup following a rou­tine traffic stop. 
A state trooper patrol­ling Interstate 94 near Ann Arbor pulled over Leo Earl Sharp on Friday for follow­ing too closely and executing an improper lane change. When the trooper asked Sharp if he could search the truck, Sharp refused. So the trooper requested a backup unit with a dog trained to detect bombs and illegal drugs. 
Sharp was charged with conspiracy and possession with intent to distribute co­caine. If convicted, he faces at least 10 years in prison. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
Today, from 4 to 5 p.m., there will be a physics cl­loguium titled, “Millisecond Pulsars: The Gifts that Keep on Giving.” This event will be presented by Dr. Scott Ran­som from the Natinal Radio Astronomy observatory in Room 118 of Nieuwland Sci­ence Hall. Refreshments will be server prior to the event. 
This afternoon, from 4:30 to 6 p.m., there will be a lecture titled, “Can Plan­ning Save the City: Facing the Challenges of Urban America.” This lecture will be presented by Toni Grif­fin, director of the Division of Planning and Community Development of Newark, New Jersey and adjunct associ­ate professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Design. This lecture will take place in Room 104 of Bond Hall. 
This evening, from 5 to 
6:30 p.m., Japanese writer Yoko Tawada will be giving a lecture titled, “Adventu­rues of Foreign Languag­es.” The event is hosted by the Provost’s Distinguished Women Lecturers Program. 
The event will be held in 

McKenna Hall. 
Dan Hesse, CEO and Presi­dent of Sprint, will be deliv­ering a lecture, “Foresight and Career Choice,” on Thursday at 3:30 p.m. He will also discuss the com­pany brand and employment opportunities at Sprint. The lecture will be held in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Busi­ness. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
John Cameron Mel Flanagan Jillian Barwick 

Graphics 
Lisa Hoeynck 

Photo 
Suzanna Pratt 


Sports 

Andrew Gastelum Cory Bernard Vicky Jacobsen 

Scene 

Mary Claire O’Donnell 

Viewpoint 


LOCAL WEATHER 
HIGH 52 LOW 41 
HIGH 51 LOW 35 
HIGH 51 LOW 33 
HIGH 50 LOW 34 
HIGH 54 LOW 41 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY GAMEDAY SUNDAY 

Ren Brauweiler 










CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
Group discusses leadership program 


By KRISTEN RICE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Student Govern­ment Association (SGA) began debating the specific program­ming of “Proud Past, Promising Future,” the proposed student leadership development pro­gram, at its Tuesday meeting. 
The program, set to begin in November, will focus on a differ­ent theme each month. 
SGA members discussed the possibility of focusing the first month on self-reflection, 

“The focus should be 
encouraging have someone 
how to be a leader 
students to come in and consider the for yourself, and then give specific strength of how to be a leader etiquette les­their leadership for your group.” sons,” Skirtich skills. said. 
Kelly Reiden-Public Rela-
Kelly Reidenbach 
bach, Student tions commis­
president 
Diversity Board sioner Amanda 
Student Diversity Board 
president, said Lester said would encourage the personal drive to work through finals, as well as interpersonal motivation to inspire others as leaders. 
“The focus should be how to be a leader for yourself, and then how to be a leader for your group,” she said. 
In January, the group plans to focus on personal presentation and professional development. 
Emily Skirtich, chief of staff, suggested an etiquette-themed dinner. 
“We could have a leader­
ship etiquette 
dinner and 
beginning with a month of self-evaluation would help students decide whether the program would benefit them. 
“It’s important to start with the reflecting, then from there people can gauge where they need to go,” she said. “So it’s in stages.” 
Despite only having a few weeks in December for pro­gramming, executive treasurer Liz Busam said finals would be a good time to focus on the theme of motivation. 
“Motivation [is fitting] because it will give [students] motivation to get through finals,” Busam said. 
Reidenbach said the theme 

students would benefit from having prominent businesswomen speak at the College. 
“We could bring in different CEOs and have them talk about how they got to their position and their different experiences,” she said. 
In keeping with the theme of leadership mentors, SGA presi­dent Nicole Gans suggested taking advantage of the Board of Trustees visit in February. The program would conclude in March with a proposed theme of inspiration. 
Contact Kristen Rice at krice01@saintmarys.edu 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Council reflects on USC night game 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
The Council of Representa­tives reflected on the various changes to the gameday ex­perience implemented for the USC game at its Tuesday meet­ing. 
Oversight chair Ben Noe said holding the game at night for the first time in over 20 years at Notre Dame Stadium enhanced the overall experi­ence. 
“I thought it was the most exciting game atmosphere in the stadium I’ve ever felt,” he said. “I think the whole night-game concept went really well.” 
Council members voiced a number of opinions on the piped music, perhaps the most notable addition to Saturday’s game. 
Senior class president Anne Huntington said she enjoyed the addition to the usual band music, but felt it was overdone. 
“I don’t know if it had to be played so often,” she said. 
Noe said he did not think the recorded music detracted from the usual band perfor­mances and that it helped in­crease excitement among stu­dents. 
“I think we had a fairly pleasant balance between the band and the recorded music,” he said. “I think the canned music also got the students a little more riled up.” 
Junior class president Kevin Doherty said the contrast in genre made the recorded mu­sic a welcome addition. 
“A lot of students have said they’re sick of hearing the Celtic Chant six times in one drive,” he said. “I think it was a welcome change just be­cause it was something differ­ent.” 
Huntington said a more modern approach could invig­orate the crowd. 
“Our band is awesome, but they’re playing a traditional march and USC was playing DJ Khaled,” Huntington said. 
Student body vice president Brett Rocheleau agreed. “[The band’s songs are not] 
really songs you sing to, except the Victory March,” Rocheleau said. “If they play music peo­ple will sing to, they’ll get the student section more riled up.” 
Student Union treasurer Eric Biro added that a more mixed opinion on the new mu­sic among the student body than the council members could lead to its discontinua­tion. 
“Unless we get a big out­cropping of student support for the music, we may not get it again,” he said. 
Student body president Pat McCormick suggested the pos­sibility of a Student Senate resolution to formally recom­mend the continuation of the canned music. 
First Undergraduate Expe­rience in Leadership (FUEL) director Ricky Bevington re­minded members to consider the views of the marching band members. 
“If [the resolution] is some­thing you might do, you have to consider all groups on cam­pus, especially the band. They feel like they’re being left out, neglected,” he said. “It’s very traditional at Notre Dame that the band provides the music. It’s unique.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 



ND students travel to work on theses 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
While many students caught up on sleep or their favorite TV shows over Fall Break, some se­niors traveled abroad to get a more personal perspective on their theses topics. 
Senior Pete Elliott, a political science and economics double major, visited Belfast, Northern Ireland. While there, he conduct­ed research for his thesis on po­licing and insurgency during The Troubles, a period of national ethno-political conflict in North­ern Ireland. 
“I’m studying the effects of certain actions undertaken by the police in Northern Ireland to combat the terrorism at the time,” Elliott said. “[I’m] seeing how the tactics they used to fight terrorism played a role in shap­ing the conflict and how it played a role in the next 30 years.” 
Elliott visited the Public Re­cord Office of Northern Ireland to digitize police records. 
“These would be weekly status reports, statistics,” he said. “If you get data about certain areas in Northern Ireland, Belfast spe­cifically, you can map the police by their own documentation and see if there are any interesting trends over time. So it’s seeing what sort of information we can mine from that data and how that can help us understand the con­flict in a more rigorous way.” 
Elliott also visited Relatives for Justice, a victims’ advocacy group in Belfast. The group at­tempts to compensate people that were wronged during The Troubles. 
“They collected statements from people who had been taken up by the police,” Elliott said. “It highlights a lot of institutional abuse that was sort of down­played.” 
Elliott hopes to use the infor­mation he collected to analyze the interplay between the state and the social movement during The Troubles. 
“I have to go through it and see exactly what I’m going to use, but the goal is to map a trend in po­licing in certain areas in Belfast during the period from 1968 to 1971,” he said. 
Senior Lea Malewitz, a double major in French and Arabic, trav­elled to Paris with a dual pur­pose. 
Malewitz’s main focus was to prepare for an art exhibit called “DIGNITY,” a photo exhibit about human dignity issues, set to de­but at the Snite Museum of Art in January. While there, however, she also gathered information for her thesis on the portrayal of the Arab-Israeli conflict in French literature. 
Malewitz visited the Museum of Jewish Art and History, the Arabic World Institute and La Cité nationale de l’histoire de l’immigration, a museum of im­migrant history, she said. 
At the Museum of Jewish Art and History, Malewitz found an exhibit that shed light on Jewish identity in France. 
“One woman portrayed was quoted as saying that she felt Jewish identity in France was revitalized when the Pieds-Noirs, the French settlers of Algeria, re­turned to France after the Algeri­an War of Independence because they weren’t ashamed to assert their Jewish identity,” she said. 
Malewitz said the perspectives on Judaism, France and northern Africa held by Jews in Arab-dom­inated French colonies especially intrigued her. 
“I encountered the same idea, described as a revival of Juda­ism in France after the arrival of the Sephardic Jews, the next day at the Museum of Immigration,” Malewitz said. “I am interested to see if this revival is reflected in French and francophone litera­ture as I continue to do research for my thesis.” 
Elliott said the opportunity to research abroad was an excep­tionally valuable asset for his thesis. 
“It’s really exciting because I feel like I’m using innovative sources that a lot of distinguished scholars on the subjects haven’t gotten to use, and I wouldn’t have gotten to do that if I hadn’t been to Belfast personally,” he said. “Plus, it’s invaluable to see the area I’m writing on firsthand.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
SMC begins club for food allergies 
By JILL BARWICK 
News writer 
Saint Mary’s freshman Megan Steron is one of two million people in the United States living with celiac dis­ease, a digestive disorder that damages the small in­testine and interferes with absorption of nutrients from food. Her intolerance to glu­ten, a protein in wheat, rye and barley, makes eating on a college campus a chal­lenge. 
“About two weeks into school, I was sitting in the dining hall by myself, try­ing to eat a measly salad since there was nothing else agreeable for me to eat that day,” Steron said. “After about five minutes, I knew I had to do something about it, not just for myself, but for all the girls at Saint Mary’s that want and need more op­tions for their food sensitivi­ties.” 
Steron decided to estab­lish Dining Hall Divas, a club for Saint Mary’s stu­dents suffering from celiac disease, diabetes, irritable bowel syndrome and food allergies. 
“This club is for those who share common [lists] of food that they can and cannot eat,” she said. 
Steron and the Divas will be working closely with the dining hall staff to ensure the needs of students with special dietary require­ments are met consistently. They will also be commu­nicating with the College’s food providers to ensure in­gredient information is ac­curate and clear. 
Steron said she hopes to program tutorials for the dining hall staff focusing on basic food safety, cover­ing topics such as changing gloves after working with allergy-triggering foods. 
In the long term, she hopes to also expand options avail­able to those with restricted diets. 
“I really wanted to start this club up because I’m one of those girls who has a hard time finding something sub­stantial enough to eat in the dining hall without having a bad reaction to it,” Steron said. 
The club has established a website to keep students in­formed on the group’s work and the progress of dietary accommodations at the Col­lege. 
“We have a website for the Dining Hall Divas, which is linked to the Saint Mary’s page, where any student, prospective or current, can see the strides we are mak­ing for a more gluten-free environment here,” she said. 
Steron said the club has met with dining hall staff three times and has already drawn out some possible im­provements. 
Interested students can contact Steron at mstero01@ saintmarys.edu. 
Contact Jill Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 


Activists discuss proliferation 

By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
While other hot button issues may receive more attention from activists, the rise and expan­sion of nuclear weaponry is the most consequential issue facing leaders today, a former Church leader said in a lecture Tuesday. 
“[Nuclear proliferation] has been, for six decades … the most momentous issue of eth­ics, security and policy that we face,” Cardinal Roger Mahoney, Archbishop Emeritus of Los An­geles, said. 
Mahoney and former Secre­tary of Defense William Perry argued for nuclear disarma­ment at “Ethical Dimensions of a World Without Nuclear Weap­ons,” a discussion held Tuesday in the Hesburgh Center Audito­rium. 
At the event, Mahoney out­lined the Church’s moral stance in opposition of nuclear prolifer­ation while Perry discussed the feasibility of disarmament. 
“It is good that defense ex­perts and moral leaders are working together on the nuclear question because it is particu­larly effective when moral clar­ity and strategic analysis align in service to the same goal,” Ma-honey said. 
Mahoney said the Church’s support for nuclear disarma­ment hinges on basic human rights. 
“[The] point for Catholic re­flection on nuclear weapons is the life, dignity and rights of the human person,” Mahoney said. “From the dignity and rights of the human person arise the ob­ligations of the individual and states to promote peace and de­fend the common good.” 
Mahoney said the only way to truly protect human rights is a comprehensive ban on nuclear weapons. 
“The Church is a long-term nuclear pacifist,” Mahoney said. “The Church abhors any use of nuclear weapons …  and is convinced that the moral im­perative is to move carefully but courageously toward a mutual, verifiable, global ban on nuclear weapons.” 
Amassing a large number of nuclear weapons in the name of deterrence has long been the United States’ strategy for pre­venting nuclear war, but Ma-honey said deterrence should not be a long-term plan. 
“The Church does not re­ject the need to deter the use of nuclear weapons,” Mahoney said. “That is a moral impera­tive. But she does reject the view that nuclear deterrence is the only option in the long-term, a permanent component of secu­rity in a nuclear age. Rather, the Church insists that it is nuclear disarmament, not nuclear de­terrence, that is a long-term ba­sis of security.” 
Perry said spending part of his career developing U.S. mis­siles for the purpose of deter­rence made him realize that nuclear disarmament is the real answer to the nuclear question. 
“My personal journey … took me from creating the most ad­vanced nuclear weapons in the world to working to try to create a world without nuclear weap­ons,” Perry said. 
Perry said his time on a tech­nical team analyzing the Cuban Missile Crisis as it was ongoing greatly informed his beliefs re­garding disarmament. 
“Every day that I went into that analysis center, I believed it would be my last day on Earth,” Perry said. 
As Secretary of Defense under President Clinton, Perry said he strove to rid the post-Cold War world of the nuclear threat. 
“During the Cold War, I be­lieved it was necessary to take the risks associated with these deadly nuclear weapons,” Perry said. “When the Cold War end­ed, I believed it was no longer necessary to take those risks and that we should begin to dis­mantle this deadly nuclear Cold War legacy.” 
During his tenure, Perry said he helped dismantle over 8,000 nuclear weapons in the United States and the former Soviet Union. 
Perry said the current threat of nuclear attack has a different source than that of the Cold War era. 
“Nuclear proliferation and terrorism have put the world at a nuclear tipping point,” Perry said. “If we cannot stop North Korea and Iran from building nuclear arsenals, I fear that the world will cross that tipping point with consequences more dangerous than any of you can truly imagine.” 
Perry said he is a member of the “Gang of Four” that ardently argues for nuclear disarma­ment today. This group includes former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, former Secretary of State George Schultz and Sena­tor Sam Nunn. 
With guidance from the Gang of Four, Perry said President Obama signed the new START treaty in 2010 to decrease the United States’ nuclear arsenal. 
Mahoney said the United States has an important role in promoting nuclear disarma­ment. 
“The United States has enor­mous power and influence,” Ma-honey said. “Our country has a special responsibility to take the lead in reducing and ultimately banning nuclear weapons and in developing the institutions and practices of cooperative se­curity that will make that more likely and more sustainable.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
Arts and Letters to offer Business Boot Camp 
By EMMA RUSS how valuable their skills are in News Writer the world of business.” 
Reaffirming the value of a lib-
Come March, some students eral arts degree is important, Bill will head to the beach for Spring said, because a business degree is Break, but a select group of Arts not as crucial to success as many and Letters students will ship Arts and Letters majors think. off to boot camp: Business Boot “When you look at Arts and Camp. Letters’ placement rates for six 
The College of Arts and Letters months post-graduation, the is currently accepting applica-number of students still seeking tions for the program, a crash jobs is very small and virtually 

course in all things busi­ness, program coordinator Lissa Bill said. 
“The pur­pose of the Arts and Letters Business Boot Camp is to give Arts and Let­ters students an overview of the busi­ness world,” she said. “It is a chance for them to gain 
“When you look at Arts and Letters’ placement rates for six months post-graduation, the number of students still seeking jobs is very small and virtually the same as for those students that are business majors.” 
Lissa Bill program coordinator Business Boot Camp 
the same as for those students that are busi­ness majors,” she said. “For­mer Boot Camp participants have found in­ternships and full-time posi­tions at com­panies such as Target, The Boston Con­sulting Group, Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs.” 
exposure to some of the funda­mentals of business while explor­ing different areas and career paths within business.” 
The program, a joint effort be­tween the College and the Career Center, will bring students to Chi­cago from March 12-15 to explore a number of business career paths available in the city. 
Senior Tim Crowley, who at­tended Business Boot Camp last spring, said the program had a major impact on his search for an internship and full-time employ­ment. 
“The networking helped me to find a full-time job,” he said. “Boot Camp also gave me something to talk about in interviews. 
“They will “Boot Camp also gave It’s something gain exposure employers are 
me something to talk 
to marketing, really interest-
about in interviews. It’s 
finance, ac-ed in hearing 
something employers 
counting, strat-about.” 
are really interested 
egy and busi-Bill said 
in hearing about.” 
ness ethics,” the program Bill said. “They leaders are will have the Tim Crowley mindful of the opportunity to senior fact that the 
work in teams on a business case and de­velop a presentation. Each team then presents their final recom­mendations to a panel of employ­ers and alumni on the last day of the trip.” 
The alumni interaction is one of the most beneficial aspects of the program, Bill said. 
“The alumni involved with the program are great,” she said. “They are committed to letting Arts and Letters students know participants 
are on Spring 
Break, and try to balance the business with fun, offering dinner outings and a trip to the Art Institute. 
“We want it to be an enjoyable and enlightening experience,” she said. “Students need to know that the skills they are developing in Arts and Letters are valuable in the world of business.” 
Contact Emma Russ at eruss@nd.edu 

Cancer  “[The test offers] added in­formation for the patient and  began to compile genetic data from the National Institute of  tween the Indiana University School of Medicine and Notre  more steps toward a cure. “I think it is extremely  
the oncologist about what is  Health for his project.  Dame.  promising,”  Buechler  said.  
continued from page 1  really going on in that spe­ “My test identifies four genes  “Right now we have about  “There are a lot of advances  
cific disease so you can plan  that, if they are turned on at a  six people on campus, both  that have been made and are  
isn’t necessarily the best treat- a  treatment  high level, the  at Notre Dame and the School  being made. Every dime that  
ment to help them.”  that  makes  patient  has  a  of Medicine, who are doing  has been spent has been well  
Her experience with cancer helped Rauch dedicate herself to Buechler’s project. “His research won’t neces­sarily affect me, but it is go­ing to help other people who were in my position,” Rauch  se n se , ” B ue c h l e r s a i d . “ [ C o u r t n e y is] helping to u nder s t a nd when oncolo­ “Knowing how that felt — literally I was sitting there, and they were saying I could choose what I wanted my treatment to be. I was  poor progno­sis,” Buechler said. Once mar­keted com­mercially and applied to real  basic science work in cancer and breast cancer,” Navari said. “They are working any­where from developing drugs, to learning how breast cancer grows, to learning how breast cancer spreads.”  spent … It’s also a story of what advocacy can do. [Octo­ber] is Breast Cancer Aware­ness Month, and we’ve heard a lot about it. All of that effort and attention and money and advocacy pays off.”  
said. “Knowing how that felt — literally I was sitting there, and they were saying I could choose what I wanted my treatment to be. I was like, ‘I’m 19 years old, and I don’t know anything about this.’ Having  gists decide to give a cer­tain type of drug or not … Identify­ing the right drug for  like ‘I’m 19 years old, and I don’t know anything about this.’ Having that experience helps me understand what other women are going to feel.”  patients, the test would al­low labs to compare a ge­netic sample to past samples and predict  Genetic tests like Buechler’s could be a key to future clini­cal treatments for cancer, Na­vari said. “One of the things that is also important is that if we use a genetic approach to these  For Rauch, advocating for breast cancer awareness and research will continue to be important. “I think one of the biggest things that I have learned is how much [cancer] affects ev­ 
that experience helps me un­ them,  that  how  the  can- various cancers and find out  eryone  around  me  …  know­ 
derstand what other women are going to feel.” In his research, Buechler is  might be a lifesaver.” B ue c h l er  Courtney Rauch junior  cer will act in the future. In order to  which genes are important, then we may be able to alter these genes to prevent breast  ing that it’s not just one per­son or their close friends,” she said. “It’s everyone that  
developing  an  affordable test  became  in- u nd e r s t a nd  cancer,” he said. “Breast can- interacts with them on a daily  
to determine the chance of  terested  in  the more tech­ cer is still the main disease  basis … [Cancer research like  
relapse for breast cancer pa- applying math to disease five  nical biology behind breast  that is predominantly, if not  Buechler’s] is a job I would  
tients through genetic data.  years ago. Breast cancer was  cancer,  Buechler  consulted  100 percent, gene-based.”  love to do, to use my degree  
The test will allow oncologists  a natural choice for his proj­ oncologist Dr. Rudolph Navari,  Buechler said one in eight  and help other people.”  
and patients to make more ed­ ect focus because so much  the director of the Harper Can- women  will  develop  breast  
ucated decisions about cancer  information was available on  cer  Research  Institute. The  cancer  during  her  lifetime,  Contact Megan Doyle at  
treatment.  the disease, he said, and he  Institute is a partnership be- and  more  research  means  mdoyle11@nd.edu  

Gameday 
continued from page 1 
back.” 
The game itself sold out, with more than 82,000 fans in at­tendance, but thousands more flocked to campus, Seamon said. 
“It’s impossible to estimate, [but there were] somewhere north of 110,000 peo­ple on campus three were arrested — one for criminal mischief and resisting law enforcement, one for public intoxication and resisting law enforcement and one for tres­passing. 
Three were arrested for pub­lic intoxication in the stadium, Chapman said. 
Seamon said Friday’s pep rally had over 16,500 people in attendance, making it the larg­
est pep rally of 
the year. 
“I thought 

Saturday,” he said. S ea m on said he ex­pected a high numbers of  “We knew there were going to be a lot more people on campus than a typical football weekend, which was great.”  that was real­ly good [since] students were en route, com­ing back to campus,” he  
fans on cam- said.  
pus due to the  Mike Seamon  About 4,200  
Notre  Dame- director  people  went  
USC rivalry, a prediction  Game Day Operations  through Fri­day’s tunnel  

confirmed by the influx of visitors begin­ning Thursday afternoon. 
“We knew there were going to be a lot more people on campus than a typical football weekend, which was great,” he said. 
He said extra staff was add­ed across the board, including parking staff, medical staff and security personnel to make sure Notre Dame was prepared for the weekend. 
“We wanted to make sure the parking went well on [the] front-end and back-end of the game,” he said. 
Dave Chapman, assistant di­rector of NDSP, said police ar­rested six people Saturday. He said that outside the stadium, tour, Seamon 
said, and Fri­
day’s football luncheon had 1,760 attendees. He said it was the highest-at­tended luncheon of the year by far. 
“These events were early in­dicators that an incredibly high number of people would be on campus Saturday,” Seamon said. 
Given the unconventional cir­cumstances of last weekend, Seamon said he was pleased with the results. 
“For hosting the first night game in over 20 years, I thought it was a huge success,” he said. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
Ireland 
continued from page 1 
“We went out in full rain gear but were getting sun­burned on our faces and hands. It’s the roughest I’ve seen it in five years,” he said. “But they took great advan­tage of it in good spirits, which isn’t something all people can do.” 
Junior Ryan Lion said the opportunity to employ the skills and knowledge he learned in class made the trip worth the difficult weather and sparse sleep. 
“Archeology lets you contex­tualize a period. You can read about it and have it ingrained in you, but when you actu­ally stand in the remains of a building from the sixth cen­tury, it really impacts you,” he said. “It was really active, in­volved learning.” 
Lion said he was drawn to the Portumna Workhouse site because of his interest in health. 
“It provided information on the health of Irish workhous­es and the diseases affect­ing the people living in them at that time. People suffered from cholera and typhoid,” he said. “The infirmary was understaffed and even those few workers lacked a medical background.” 
Lion and his classmates wrote papers and constructed posters on the sites they visit­ed. He said the students’ first­hand experiences of the sites will enrich their projects more than traditional research. 


“We’ll do a lot of secondary research for the papers and posters, including statistics and any reading relevant to the topic,” he said, “but pri­mary observation is important for insight — we’re not just spitting out academic blurbs.” 
Once the posters are com­pleted, Kuijt said they will be exhibited at Flanner Hall, where they will be judged by an Irish researcher. 
Beyond the expanded knowledge about Irish culture and archeology, Kuijt said the students will benefit from the development of communica­tion and presentation skills required by the projects asso­ciated with the trip. 
“They get this local experi­ence, a hidden Ireland with some zany instructors, but they get a whole range of transportable skills as well,” he said. “That’s what’s paying off.” 
Lion said the trip offered an understanding of the course’s subject beyond what he could learn from lectures or text­books. 
“We got to think like arche­ologists rather than just read­ing about it,” he said. “I just loved having the chance to learn about the unique iden­tity of Irish culture and how diverse it is within its own na­tional boundary.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 

Police disrupt Occupy Oakland 

Malpass 
continued from page 1 
made him highly qualified for a position on the foundation’s board. 
“The Notre Dame Invest­ment Office has a long and distinguished record as one of the premier endowment man­agement organizations in the country,” Flannery said. “We are honored to have the leader of that office join our board. We are delighted that Scott answered our call to service and grateful to the University of Notre Dame for sharing him with us.” 
Malpass will serve on the board of directors of TIFF Ad­visory Services, Inc. (TAS), the regulated investment advisor that, along with its affiliates, administers investment ve­hicles bearing the TIFF name. 
Malpass, the University’s chief investment officer since 


Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif — Under cover of darkness early Tues­day, hundreds of police swept into Oakland’s Occupy Wall Street protest, firing tear gas and beanbag rounds before clearing out an encampment of demonstrators. 
In less than an hour, the 2-week-old, miniature make­shift city was in ruins. 
Scattered across the plaza in front of City Hall were over­turned tents, pillows, sleeping bags, yoga mats, tarps, back­packs, food wrappers and water bottles. Signs decrying corpora­tions and police still hung from lampposts or lay on the ground. 
Later Tuesday, hundreds of protesters gathered at a library and marched through down­town Oakland. They were met by police officers in riot gear, and several small skirmishes broke out. 

The protesters eventually made their way back to City Hall for a game of cat-and-mouse as dusk approached. Police later threw flash bang canisters and fired more tear gas as the crowd dispersed up the street. 
“It’s really, really tense and I think the cops are trying to walk a fine line, but I don’t think they are going to back down and neither are the demonstrators,” said Cat Brooks, an organizer. “We’re on the move. For now.” 
No one was injured dur­ing the Tuesday morning raid, Interim Oakland Police Chief Howard Jordan said. The plaza was “contained” at around 5:30 a.m., city officials said. 
Protesters had stayed awake through the night, waiting for the expected raid. Officers and sheriff’s deputies from across the San Francisco Bay area sur­rounded the plaza at around 5 
a.m. and closed in. Eighty-five people were arrested, mostly on suspicion of misdemeanor unlawful assembly and illegal camping, police said. 
By midmorning, city work­ers had started collecting the debris. Some would be held for protesters to reclaim, the rest would be thrown away, the city said. 
The Oakland site was among numerous camps that have sprung up around the country, as protesters rally against what they see as corporate greed and a wide range of other economic issues. The protests have at­tracted a wide range of people, including college students look­ing for work and the homeless. 
1989, manages the invest­ment of the University’s en­dowment, working capital and pension and life income assets of $7 billion. Under Malpass’s leadership, that endowment has become the 14th largest in American higher education and the largest at a Catholic university. 
Through the work of the In­vestment Office, Notre Dame has experienced a 12.1 per­cent annualized return on the endowment pool, the release stated. The University has been recognized as an inno­vator in international, private capital and alternative invest­ing. 
Also elected to the TIFF board were Ashvin Chhabra, chief investment officer for the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., and Sandra Robertson, chief investment officer and chief executive of­ficer of Oxford University En­dowment Management Ltd., in Oxford, U.K. 





page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, October 26, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

ESPN wins 
In late July, ESPN announced it was going to air seven new documentaries as a result of its wildly successful and critically acclaimed 30 for 30 series that aired from Oct. 2009 through Dec. 2010. 
While perusing the list of the new docu­mentaries, one in particular caught my eye: Unguarded — the story of former collegiate and pro­fessional basketball player Chris Herren, which will air on Tuesday, Nov. 1. 

Much like the story of baseball star Josh Hamilton, Herren’s is superbly captivating. As a high school standout at Durfee High in Fall River, Mass., Herren was the central figure of Bill Reynolds’ critically acclaimed 1995 book, “Fall River Dreams: A Team’s Quest for Glory, A Town’s Search for Its Soul.” 
Following a senior season at Durfee that saw Herren named as Massachu­setts Player of the Year and a McDon­ald’s All-American, the six-foot, three-inch combo guard chose to bring his game to nearby Boston College. His Eagle career did not last long, as he suffered a season-ending wrist injury in his collegiate debut. 
The injury began a downward spiral that would last for more than a decade. Herren began partying harder and us­ing cocaine. Due to academic problems and a failed drug test, Herren decided in April 1995 to transfer to Fresno State. 
While playing for Jerry Tarkanian at Fresno State, the problems just in­creased. There was another failed drug test in 1997, which resulted in a three-week stay at a rehabilitation facility in Utah. There were allegations over a potential point shaving scandal in the same year. However, through it all, Herren remained a very talented player with NBA potential. 
The Denver Nuggets selected Herren in the second round of the 1999 NBA Draft. It was while playing for Denver that Herren was introduced to the pain­killer OxyContin, and he almost instant­ly became addicted. Herren was traded to Boston in late 2000, but only lasted until his release in October 2001. 
After his oust in Boston, Herren became a journeyman overseas player, making stops in China, Germany, Italy and Turkey. All the while, he remained a full-on OxyContin addict. He began using heroin in 2004, and this new ad­diction led to two arrests — one in 2004 and one in 2008. 
Following his second arrest, Herren entered an intense drug rehabilitation program in upstate New York where he stayed for nearly 11 months. His experi­ence in rehab has helped him remain drug free since June 4, 2008. 
Following his release from the pro­gram, Herren began making strides to turn around his life. He soon developed “Hoop Dreams with Chris Herren,” which is a basketball development clinic for players of all skill levels. Herren has also used his experiences in speaking engagements where he describes just how much drugs and alcohol adversely affected his career and his life. 
I believe ESPN deserves a good deal of credit for airing this story, as it should serve as a cautionary tale for talented young athletes everywhere. Here’s to hoping that Herren will be able to remain clean and sober and continue to pass along his story to all those in need. 

Contact Walker Carey at      wcarey@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The business case for going green 
Since the environmental movement started, most businesses have viewed the process of “going green” as a cost rather than an investment. This senti­ment is especially magnified in the United States, where corporate environ-Brian Kaneb mental responsibil­ity is generally held Guest to a low standard. Columnist This most likely stems from the public’s skepticism — just 48 percent of Americans believe human activities play a role in climate change, a 12 percent decrease from 2008. Yet even if the public is unde­cided about the science behind climate change, it is financially wise for compa­nies to take initiative. Businesses must cater to the consumer, and the demand for environmentally responsible compa­nies will only increase over time. Also, even the simplest of internal efficiency adjustments can decrease unwanted spending while helping the environment at the same time. On top of this, it is also wise for the private sector to invest in green energy to prepare for inevitable environmental legislation like cap and trade. 
Though critics may say that my idea is simply wishful thinking, real life exam­ples seem to suggest otherwise. Just look at Nokia, the world’s largest manufac­turer of mobile phones, which has been particularly active in the green move­ment. Nokia claims to have exceeded its goal of reducing facility related carbon dioxide emissions by 18 percent in 2010 relative to their 2006 level. One major way in which they do so is by modifying actual product production. Since 2005, they have saved 240,000 tons of paper by dramatically reducing the packaging size of their most affordable products. This helps Nokia hit two birds with one stone, lowering both production and transportation costs. Theoretically, ac­cording to their most recent sustainabil­ity report, they now only need one-third of the number of trucks to transport 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
these products. They are also commit­ted to ensuring that all of their main suppliers have set energy efficiency and carbon dioxide emission reduction goals, thus forcing Nokia’s partners to adapt to a high level of corporate social respon­sibility. 
Staples, the world’s largest office sup­ply company, is another great example of a progressive company. Recently ranked as the fourth largest purchaser of green power in the retail industry by the EPA, it constantly receives awards and recognition for its approach to sustain­ability. Just this year, Staples more than doubled its annual investment in wind projects, purchasing approximately 340 million kilowatt-hours in renewable energy certificates. Not only does this prevent 62,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents from entering the environment, it also helps it “drive envi­ronmental and cost reduction benefits,” according to Bob Valair, the director of energy and environmental management for Staples. In an intriguing statement, Mr. Valair referred to buying renewable energy as an “investment” rather than a “cost.” But why? 
To reference the great Bob Dylan song, “the times they are a-changin’.” In order to prepare for higher government stan­dards, the smartest companies are in the process of adopting “pre-compliance” environmental policies. In essence, such companies will gradually decrease their greenhouse gas emissions to prepare themselves for future government poli­cies. By participating in such a long-term investment, they will develop a competi­tive advantage over businesses that are unprepared for such a dramatic change. 
Much of corporate America was first introduced to the term “pre-compliance” around 2008, when it looked like Con­gress might implement a national cap­and-trade system for greenhouse gases. Accordingly, because of high demand in America, the value of the worldwide carbon market grew nearly 217 percent from the previous year. As we all know, the federal government effectively shut down the potential for a cap-and-trade system less than a year later. However, this spike shows that government com­pliance should not be taken lightly. Com­panies should constantly be preparing for new environmental policies in order to facilitate a smooth future transition. 
Whether or not one personally believes in global warming, it is also necessary to recognize that businesses must cater to the growing demand for green compa­nies. Whereas a company that ignores energy efficiency will undoubtedly receive bad publicity, more progressive competitors will only see their reputa­tions increase. Because reputation is im­portant to the consumer, being environ­mentally friendly often helps companies expand their products. 
In 2011, according to Landor Associ­ates, 73 percent of consumers felt that it was “very important” or “somewhat important” for a company to be envi­ronmentally friendly. What’s more, a recent Yahoo! Finance-commissioned study found that the youth (ages 18 to 
35) is “highly influenced to make green choices to help their personal image.” As the current youth ages, this poll clearly shows that the demand for green prod­ucts and companies will gain momen­tum. Though the movement was ham­pered by the recession — as was every other industry — it survived and proved to be resilient. This is most likely due to the fact that, despite the recession, at least 55 percent of consumers are will­ing to spend more on a product “because it is green,” according to the previously mentioned Landor Associates poll. 
The base of support for green products is astounding, and tapping into it pro­vides great opportunities for the private industry. 
Brian Kaneb is a sophomore. He can be reached at bkaneb1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“There are people whom one loves immediately and forever. Even to know they are alive in the world with one is quite enough.” 
Nancy Spain English journalist 

WEEKLY POLL 
What are you going to be for Halloween? 
Edward Cullen My orgo professor Snooki I just want free candy ... 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 


Wednesday, October 26, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Motherhood 

I am not certain that what follows is orthodox, but … well, it may be. 
In the beginning, we were animals like any others — taller and swifter than many, true, but animals nonethe­less — living like the others according to first impressions, moving like the others according to desire and fear. And so, in the begin­ning, our world was a garden — a place ordered according to physical, chemical and biological laws of the greatest beauty — one in which we, like the others, played our part. Or so it seemed. 
But one day we re­alized that, unlike the others, we could look upon ourselves as though from the outside — could, that is, somehow stand at a distance from ourselves — and thus, unlike the others, reflect upon ourselves, upon our interactions with the world. And so we realized that we could rule ourselves — could, that is, overcome whatever first impressions, whatever desires and fears, we hap­pened to have — and thus, unlike the others, pass from opinion to knowledge, from emotion to volition. 

For knowledge is impression puri­fied — is impression taken not as it first comes but rather as it stands after it is checked against other impressions received before and after it. To think is to live in the world not from moment to moment but rather at a distance from time. To think, in other words, is to be­come eternal: It is to see in the world not the arbitrariness of particular things but rather the beauty of the unchanging physical, chemical and biological laws behind them. And volition is emotion purified — is emotion taken not as it first comes, but rather as it stands after it is checked against other emotions felt before and after. To act is to move in the world not from moment to moment but rather at a distance from time. To act, in other words, is to become eternal: It is to construct in the world not the arbitrariness of particular movements, but rather the beauty of the unchanging soul behind them. 
In standing at a reflective distance from ourselves, we could, for the first time, see ourselves as selves — could look upon ourselves, that is, as ani­mals with inner depths, with souls. We became something more than the other animals, something divine. But with the capacity to reflect upon and thus rule ourselves — with, that is, our divinity 
— came the potential to rule wrongly, to think and act in ways that undermined themselves — that is, the potential for error and sin. And in seeing ourselves as selves — not only as particulars, each instantiating the same immortal species, but also as individuals, each unique and thus doomed to die, we became something less than the other animals, something fallen. 
Our capacity to reflect upon ourselves 
— that is, our rationality — rendered in­evitable error, sin and death. No longer could we live and move by first impres­sions, by desire and fear. We found ourselves expelled from the garden that we had shared with the other animals, expelled into a world superficially identical to the garden but nonetheless fundamentally hostile, fundamentally other — one in which every aspect of our lives, including ourselves, was at a distance from us. We alone had the capacity to name the other animals, and so we could no longer walk among them. There are two responses to this, the in­evitability of error, sin and death — that is, to our fall. 
The first response is, perhaps, the more obvious: We can use our rational­ity to learn the physical, chemical and biological laws that govern the world and then use our knowledge of those laws to make not just our species, but even ourselves immortal. To do so would be to take heaven by force — that is, to conquer death. And this we have tried to do since we fell. We no longer hunt, but rather herd. We no longer gather, but rather plant. We have built towers that reach almost unto heaven. There is nobility in this — but also madness. Im­mortality — a duration of time without limit — will always be at a limitless dis­tance from us, no matter how far toward it we walk. Human history is punctuated by the forgetting of this — by the insane attempt to rebuild the garden. We know well the results. 
The second response is harder: We can meet death with life. The other animals could not name themselves, and so none were fit to be our companion. Instead, each of us was given a compan­ion like himself and yet, somehow, very much other — one with whom he could, somehow, do what only God could do. Create. 
This is a mystery. But it is surely not coincidence that only after their fall did the Man, for the first time, call his com­panion the Mother of All Living. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his fourth year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Cincinnati style 
Let me preface this by stating that I am among the greatest Brian Kelly supporters you’ll ever find. I am a Cincinnati native, and passionately followed my Bearcats as Coach Kelly was bringing them to the top of the Big East. With that said, I was extremely per­plexed by an idea attributed to Coach Kelly in Christopher Lilly’s Sept. 29 submission (“The Football Coaching Internship Continues”). In this article, Coach Kelly was noted to have said in the past that the high-flying, deep-ball-lov­ing offense he ran in Cincinnati was used only out of necessity — you’ve gotta score points to put fans in the seats. 
Essentially, he ran the offense that way be­cause he felt like he had to.  However, it wasn’t exactly like he employed this style of offense at the expense of performance. In 2009, Cincin­nati ranked No. 4 among FBS schools in points per game. His offense worked. 
Now, once again, I believe Coach Kelly finds himself in a position where he must consider reverting to that same offense, though for very different reasons. Attendance will never be an issue here. Winning, on the other hand? 
I am now talking directly to you, Coach Kelly. People are calling for your job. I know, it’s not fair. You have won everywhere you have been in your career, and I am fairly confident South Bend has not simply sucked away your coaching skills. You deserve more time. Your recruiting is superb. With a couple more classes like the ones we have seen you are capable of assembling, our team will soon be one of the four or five most talented in the nation. However, I am sincerely hoping that you consider changing the way your offense is conducted. You have more talent here than you did in Cincinnati. That doesn’t mean you can run a “safer” offense and still win — it means you can run your “hyper-aggressive” offense and win by more. I believe in you, Coach Kelly. I want you to stick around. I just want your career here to display what I know you to be capable of. 
Jeremy Lamb 
senior Knott Hall Oct. 24 

Questionable report cards 
Dear report card editor, 

For my roommate and I, it has become one of our favorite ongoing jokes to wake up Monday morning and laugh at how poorly the past Sat­urday’s game was analyzed. This week’s report card was so bad that I felt it was my civic duty to bring this to the Notre Dame community’s attention. 
To begin, you gave the running backs a D- for their performance against USC. Yes, they may have only rushed for a combined 43 yards, but they only had 9 combined rushing attempts! They averaged close to 5 yards per carry, and Jonas Grey averaged nearly 10 yards per carry. (Not to mention that the only offensive touch­down was a 25-yard run by Jonas Grey.) I would argue that the running backs deserve a B at the minimum. With that being said, how could you give the offensive linemen a D+? With Jonas Grey averaging close to 10 yards per carry and not allowing a single sack all game, they de­serve a grade of at least a B as well. Now, about those defensive linemen: A D is being way too generous. I have never seen such a poor defen­sive performance. They allowed over 200 yards rushing and never sacked the quarterback. They should have received an F. But the biggest complaint I have is the coaching grade. Our defensive play calling was unresponsive to their massive ground attack. However, their biggest fault was not calling any timeouts towards the end of the game. Sure, we probably weren’t go­ing to make a comeback, but Coach Kelly sent a message to his football team and fans that day. I am so irate that I do not care about this game anymore. I don’t know about you, Mr. Editor, but the student section I was sitting in heard Kelly’s message loud and clear. 
So please, next week when you fill out the report card against Navy, put more thought and effort into the report card instead of looking up statistics on ESPN the night before it’s due. 
Respectfully, 
Tyler Thomas 
sophomore Knott Hall Oct. 25 
An enjoyable time 
In response to the letters “Gameday Noise” and “Don’t mess with tradition,” (Oct. 25) I’d like to say that I had a great time at the game! 
So, I can’t really build up my image and opinion by prefacing that I’m some legacy student with a strong Catholic history because I’m not a legacy student, I’m not Catholic, I don’t have this long history of support for Notre Dame going back to my great-great-whoever, and to be honest I didn’t know a thing about this University until I sent in my application letter. I still haven’t even watched Rudy yet! 
Even so, as your (less than) average-Joe student here at the University, I can say wholeheartedly that even though we lost, even though there was loud music blaring and even though things were different at the game as a whole, I still felt connected with the rest of the student body and my fellow seniors as we blew out our voice boxes to cheer our team on. 
Perhaps I don’t have the same grasp on tradition as most of the student body, or as most of the wonderful alumni of this school. But as a one time deal, I saw the music as understandable and I think that there’s no reason to be irate. There was a lot of energy in the stadium, and the student section was engaged. I think that was their goal, and it was achieved. 
While I agree that we would have cheered just as hard without the music, it sure was a lot of fun to cheer with it. 
Theresa Gaines 
senior Pasquerilla West Hall Oct. 25 
Ladies — opportunity much? 
Ladies, looking for someone who’s tall, dark and handsome? Well then I don’t have the guy for you. 
However, if you’re looking for a 5-foot, 10-inch blonde, blue-eyed romantic, look no further. As a representative for my friend (whose name shall remain anonymous), Knott Hall is having its SYR next Friday, Nov. 4, at the RV Hall of Fame. If you’re looking for a good time, please e-mail me at mknapp1@nd.edu and I will pass along the word. 
Some of this mystery man’s hobbies include photography, airplanes and the beautiful outdoors of Denver, Colo. This young go-getter is already set-up with a prestigious job and has the means to show you a good time. Don’t miss this opportunity to experience the rich culture of North-Central Indiana with one of South Bend’s most eligible bachelors — who may well be the love of your life. 
Michael Knapp 
senior Knott Hall Oct. 25 



MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL the maze with your eyes glued to the map. Scene Writer There are a number of kids that race 
their way around the maze with their par-

A few fall traditions are sacred, like ap-ents, delighting in the many forks and col­ple-picking, pumpkin carving and jumping orful corn stalks, but they don’t take away in leaf piles.  Now that you’re living in the from the experience.  In fact, they really Midwest — at least for college anyways — add to the fun, relaxed atmosphere that you need to adjust that list to include what gives you a break from the busyness and should become a staple in your fall frolick-stress of campus and schoolwork. ing: a corn maze. In addition to the corn maze, Leininger 
It’s easy to take advantage of the vast Farms have many other fun farm staples farmland surrounding South Bend and all sure to make your trip even more memora­the fun it can provide.  Only about seven ble.  It features a fantastic pumpkin patch miles from the Notre Dame campus, you and a cute country store, as well as farm will find the Leininger Farms Corn Maze, animals and lawn decorations. a family tradition that has been around for The patch features all different types of years.  Each year, the maze takes a differ-pumpkins, squash, Indian corn and mums. ent shape, inspired by borders in Europe Showcasing a wide range of colors and and the United States. shapes, it’s easy to lose yourself looking for 
This year, the corn maze has taken the the perfect fall decoration for your dorm shape of Indiana. room or apartment.  And at their very af-
All the paths you follow as you wind your fordable prices, you can easily adorn your way through the maze are the major roads room on a budget.  The animals, which in-of Indiana.  In keeping with the theme of clude mules and a goat, are fun to observe, the maze, “Roads to Education,” at differ-though the farm does not include a petting ent stops in the maze, your knowledge of zoo. Indiana and farming trivia will be tested. Only about 15 minutes from Notre The questions aren’t too difficult, but they Dame, the corn maze and pumpkin patch can stump you at some turns and teach are a great escape from campus.  Walking you things you never knew about Indiana through the maze reminds you of simpler and its long history. times, when fall didn’t mean midterms, 
And traveling through the maze is quite but pumpkin carving and homemade ap­an enjoyable experience.  It takes about an ple pie.  A day spent raking leaves wasn’t a hour and a half to make your way through chore, but a means to enjoy a blissful two the whole labyrinth, depending on how hours.  It reminds you of all the fun that many wrong turns you take or how quickly fall should include. you can answer the trivia questions.  It’s a Gather your friends for a fun afternoon casual walk, though, and invites conversa-activity or head to one of their Saturday tion between friends and lots of laughs as night flashlight tours for a night of inno­you lose yourself amongst all the corn. cent fun.  The maze is also a great place 
Laughs and confusion will abound as to bring a date as you get lost among the you take wrong turns and inevitably find corn and show off your trivia knowledge. yourself lost in an Indiana of corn.  Luckily, Either way, don’t miss this Midwest tradi­the map you receive on entering the maze tion during your four years at Notre Dame. helps guide you immensely through the winding paths.  Getting lost, however, is Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at almost half the fun, so don’t walk through modonne5@nd.edu 
In the Bend 
What: Leininger Farms Corn Maze Where: 13504 Douglas Rd., Mishawaka, IN Hours: Mon.-Fri. 4-8 p.m., Sat. 10 a.m.-8 p.m., Sun. 12-6 p.m. How Much: $5 Learn More: lfcornmaze.com 

LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic GRACE KENESEY/Observer Photo 


Wednesday, October 26, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 
CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 

After several years of working on the album in a vacant church in North London, Coldplay has finally released its fifth album, “Mylo Xy­loto,” this week, ending fans’ long wait. 
A colorful mix of quiet and com­forting songs, bright and energetic rock and a Coldplay-flavored elec­tronic sound, “Mylo Xyloto” is an al­bum to please ardent fans and main­stream audiences alike. 
Lead singer Martin told “The Phil­adelphia Inquirer” that the album is a concept album based on the story of Mylo and Xyloto, protagonists who meet in an urban environment through a gang and fall in love. 
“Mylo Xyloto” offers the sound of Martin’s calming vocals that avid fans of Coldplay’s softer rock have come to recognize from past albums like “Parachutes” and “A Rush of Blood to the Head.” Several instanc­es of major acoustical focus bring the intimate, romantic side of the Mylo Xyloto love story out. 
Hints of the art rock from the “Viva La Vida” album and an edgier focus on rock add another dimension to the album, as well as bits of a light indie sound here and there. And as usual, the unique quality of the band’s in­strumentals can enchant the listener so thoroughly, until they awaken in another part of the song to realize the style and pace has changed en­tirely without them noticing. 
“Every Teardrop is a Waterfall,” arguably one of the band’s best sin­gles yet, broke the Coldplay dry spell in June, following the tradition of rock songs like “Viva La Vida” and “Yellow” with an infectious, upbeat pop-rock twist you’ll be humming for days. The fun, easy vocals are married perfectly to the foot-tapping beat of the always-impressive alter­native rock instrumentals. 
The second single released, “Par­adise,” mixes mellow, psychedelic rock mixed with the cool vocals of Chris Martin and Will Champion’s airy harmonies, giving audiences the Coldplay music they expect with a new sound to surprise and excite them. 
The beautiful, multicolored graf­fiti art on the album and the vibrant music video for “Every Teardrop is a Waterfall,” reflect the fusion of the group’s famous soothing ballads, high spirited rock and the electrify­ing and enchanting new electronic sounds added to the Coldplay genre. 
“Princess of China (feat. Rihanna)” will likely outshine all the others and represents the perfect combina­tion of tradition and change on the new album. The intriguing collabo­ration beautifully injects Rihanna’s vocals into the Coldplay genre with­out detracting from the charming female element of her voice. Martin and Rihanna’s duets take turns ar­resting the attention of the listener and fading into the music as vocal instruments. 
A hybrid of sounds by itself, “Prin­cess of China” mixes engaging synth sounds with a heavy weight on the rock beat and the signature ethereal ingredient to create a heartbreaking song you can’t listen to just once. 
Though each song can stand on its own as a work of art in a different piece of the colorful puzzle of styles, they transition seamlessly with short instrumental pieces between songs that blend them together as one sto­ry.  These minute-or-less transitions put the 14-song album at less than 45 minutes, but Coldplay definitely has placed quality over quantity. 
As its European tour stops for 2011 rapidly sell out, it is obvious Coldplay has proved themselves once again to be an alternative rock band to satisfy a global audience. The album offers an array of sounds to enjoy separate­ly or together as a collage of a color­ful collaboration of music. Coldplay’s versatility within its unique style and consistently impressive perfor­mances as musicians is established in “Mylo Xyloto.” 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 


Release Date: Oct. 24, 2011 Label: Parlophone Key Tracks: “Princess of China (feat. Rihanna),” “Paradise,” and “Major Minus” 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Time for realignment 
With Major League Baseball’s collective bargaining agree­ment expiring in December, the players union and the owners are working on a new deal that would provide uninterrupted labor peace for several more years. 
Many fans just might not be happy with one of the likely results. 
As it appears right now, baseball is moving toward realign­ment that would even the leagues at 15 teams apiece. Since the Arizona Diamond­backs and Tampa Bay Rays were added in 1998, the Ameri­can League has had 14 teams and the National League 16. Four of the six divisions have five teams — the AL West has four and the NL Central has six. 
This imbalance was neces­sary to avoid playing inter-league games throughout the season. While realignment Mets play the 




While most would force change Yankees six fans regard upon the game that times a year in interleague many are not ready interleague be-
play as a suc-for, it is in baseball’s cause of their 
cess in 2011, rivalry, while 
best interests to adopt 
14 years after the division 
the new format. 
its inception, it was mostly unpopular when Com­missioner Bud Selig added it in 1997. Making the radical move from no interleague to inter-league throughout the season never would have been accepted by the fans. 
The team most likely to make the switch would be the Hous­ton Astros, currently a National League team, for two reasons. They would switch from the NL Central to the AL West, giving each division five teams and preventing any other teams, like the Diamondbacks or Marlins, from being forced to move divi­sions. Also, they are about to assume new ownership, giving the organization much less le­verage than other teams hoping to avoid the switch. 
While there are some issues that realignment presents, overall, it would be a step in the right direction for Major League Baseball. 
The biggest issue for fans would be nonstop interleague play throughout the season. While it could be staggered in a way that would not cause teams to play too many more interleague games, a team like the Red Sox could be pursu­ing a playoff spot down the stretch and would be forced to sit designated hitter David Ortiz on the bench in critical games, or the Tigers with Vic­tor Martinez. And the list goes on and on. 
Selig and the owners should once and for all remove the imbalance between the leagues caused by the desig­nated hitter rule, which would be magnified if realignment occurs. Either remove it from 
the American League (my preference) or add it to the National League (more likely), but it is ridiculous to have the two leagues playing under dif­ferent rules, especially when they meet in the World Series. 
There are some real issues that realignment could solve. It simply is unfair to have four teams in one division and six in another, and realignment would solve this. All teams would have an equal oppor­tunity to reach the playoffs . except for the AL East, maybe. 
Secondly, identical sched­ules could be created for all 
teams within 
a division. The 
rival Nation­
als get to play 
the Orioles six 
times. When pigs fly and the Nationals and Mets are competitive, such scheduling issues could play a role in determining the divi­sion champion or a wild card berth. These scheduling issues persist throughout baseball, and Major League Baseball should ensure that each team has an even playing field when the schedules are created each year. 
While realignment would force change upon the game that many are not ready for, it is in baseball’s best interests to adopt the new format. Crit­ics will point out that no one will get excited over a Mari­ners-Nationals game in July, but let’s be honest — Is there any matchup that would excite people involving the Mariners or the Nationals? 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
ENGLISH PREMIER LEAGUE 
Terry accused of racial abuse 
Associated Press 
England captain John Terry is being investigated by The Foot­ball Association and police over allegations he racially abused a black opponent while playing for Chelsea. 
Terry was accused of direct­ing a racial slur at Queens Park Rangers defender Anton Ferdi­nand during Sunday’s 1-0 Pre­mier League loss, and footage of the incident has spread on the internet. 
It is the latest incident to blight Terry’s scandal-plagued career, coming just seven months before he is due to lead England at the European Championship. The center back only regained the England captaincy in March — from Ferdinand’s brother Rio— after being forgiven for a sex scandal by coach Fabio Capello ahead of the 2010 World Cup. 
The result of the investigation launched by the FA on Tuesday evening could again throw into question his suitability as Eng­land captain. 
“The FA can confirm it has received a complaint relating to an alleged incident of racist abuse in the QPR versus Chel­sea fixture,” English football’s governing body said in a state­ment. “The FA will now begin to make enquiries into this matter. The FA takes seriously any al­legations of discrimination and abuse of this type.” 
A separate investigation was launched at Scotland Yard. 
“We can confirm that police have been notified of an inci­dent ... involving alleged racial abuse,” the London police force said. “This is currently being as­sessed by officers.” 
The 30-year-old Terry said the alleged comments directed at Ferdinand — who is black — were taken out of context by so­cial media users who spread the video on Sunday night. 
“I thought Anton was accusing me of using a racist slur against him,” he said after the match. “I responded aggressively, saying that I never used that term.” 
After the FA investigation was opened, Terry released another statement saying: “I welcome the FA enquiry and look forward to clearing my name as soon as possible.” 
QPR, which is back in the Premier League after 15 years, spent two days assessing the incident with Ferdinand before deciding to submit a complaint to the FA against its west Lon­don rival. 
“Queens Park Rangers Foot­ball Club does not condone rac­ism in any way, shape or form,” chairman Tony Fernandes said. “As a club, we will provide our players with our unequivocal support when alleged incidents like this occur.” 
The incident happened during English football’s anti-racism week, which highlights the prog­ress made since abuse marred the game in the 1970s and 80s. 
And it came just a week after the FA launched a probe into al­legations that Liverpool striker Luis Suarez racially abused Manchester United’s black de­fender Patrice Evra during a Premier League match. 
“It is of great regret that ... two high profile incidents of alleged racist abuse have taken place,” said Herman Ouseley, chairman of English football’s anti-racism group, Kick It Out. “This is wor­rying and potentially very dam­aging. What happens at the top end of the game has an impact at grass roots level and at parks pitches across the country.” 
Off-field transgressions have followed Terry throughout his footballing career, which has been spent entirely at Chelsea. 
He was fined by the club after he and three teammates drunk­enly abused American guests at a London hotel the day after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001. 
The England armband was taken off Terry by Capello in February 2010 following al­legations that Terry had an af­fair with the former girlfriend of Wayne Bridge, an England teammate. 
Rio Ferdinand, the older brother of Anton and Terry’s longtime central defense part­ner with England, took over as captain only to relinquish it 13 months later. 
Since the latest allegations emerged, Chelsea has thrown its full support behind Terry. 
“(Terry) said to me the inci­dent was a big misunderstand­ing,” manager Andre Villas-Boas said. “That’s why he put his statement out straightaway. I find it strange when people don’t trust the words of a representa­tive from your country.” 
The FA charged Chelsea with “failure to ensure their players conducted themselves in an or­derly fashion” in Sunday’s match when they surrounded referee Chris Foy. They were protest­ing against his decision to give a straight red card to Jose Bos­ingwa in the 33rd minute. 
Didier Drogba was also sent off in the first half at Loftus Road and after Chelsea had seven players booked in a fiery match played in a hostile atmo­sphere, Villas-Boas accused Foy and his team of officials of being swayed by the crowd. 
Villas-Boas said Foy’s perfor­mance was “very, very poor” and acknowledged he was “very aggressive” with the official af­ter the match. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?
 Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you 
love needs confidential support 
or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http:// pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

Today, I saw an ad on craigslist saying that they had a huge box that was perfect for a fort. Needless to say, I picked it up and made a fort with it. MLIA. 
Today, I was on stupidlaws.com, looking up the state of Maine because I live there. First thing I saw was this: “After January 
14th you will be charged a fine for 
having your Christmas decorations still up.” The one person in my town that keeps his decorations up year-round? A cop. MLIA Today, on Facebook, I noticed one of my guy friends had posted a video to his best friend’s wall, with a comment saying, “This is what I was talking about earlier!” It was a video of a guy carving a deer out of wood. I wish I had been there for that conversation. MLIA. 
Today, I read a story that said, “Today, I learned that there is a town in Colorado called Dinosaur. MLIA.” I looked it up and every street is named after a dinosaur. Including Stegosaurus Freeway.  MLIA Today I was on stupidlaws.com and while reading the ones for Tennessee, I saw: “It is illegal to 
use a lasso to catch a fish.” 
I live in Tennessee, and I know what I’m doing tonight. MLIA 
Today, when I went to my locker, I tried to open it with the automatic unlock button on my car keys.
 This is not the first time this has 
happened. MLIA. 
Today, I leaerned from my English teacher that a group of unicorns is called a blessing.  MLIA Today, I was taking the PSATs. It was really boring, until I came across a question about why Mulan went to join the army. The PSATs just got so much cooler. MLIA 
Today, I learned the “awkward turtle” is sign language for platypus. MIND. BLOWN. MLIA 
Yesterday, I set my digital alarm clock to go off at 7:07 and turned it upside down. When it woke me up this morning, the clock read “LOL.” I did. MLIA Shout out to Brian - one day, all of this will be your problem.  Get your Seinfeld quotes ready. 
Today I was watching my parent’s 
wedding video for the first time. 
During the vows before my Dad said “I do” he turned to my mom and asked if she squeezed the toothpaste tub from the middle. My Mom then answered, in a very confused voice, that she didn’t. My Dad then turned back to the pastor and said. “Well in that case, I do”. I love my Dad. MLIA 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Minnesota coach Kill agrees to extension 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — Jerry Kill took over Minnesota’s strug­gling football program and assessed that rebuilding the Gophers is going to take longer than he first anticipated.The university agreed. 
After working for more than eight months under the terms of an agreement struck when he was hired as the head coach, Kill finally signed his contract Tuesday — getting two more years and a little bit more money than in the origi­nal framework of the deal. 
His contract runs through the 2017 season and will pay him at least $1.2 million annu­ally, half of that in base salary and the other half in supple­mental compensation for ap­pearances, endorsements and fundraising. 

“We believe that Jerry Kill is the right guy. I’m convinced he is. He has brought a lot of en­ergy to the program,” athletics director Joel Maturi said. 
The timing was certainly strange, given the 1-6 record for the Gophers. They’ve lost their first three Big Ten games by an average margin of 38 points. 
But Maturi downplayed the delay and noted that the length of the deal is the same as what men’s basketball coach Tubby Smith got when he was hired in 2007. 
“I don’t mean to be disre­spectful to the lawyers, but I think Joel Maturi and Jerry Kill agreed upon the parame­ters of this contract a long time ago. There’s a lot of things that go into contracts as far as the words are concerned,” Maturi said. 
MLB 
Epstein introduced as Cubs GM 



Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Theo Epstein knew it was time to move on, even though it meant leaving the team he loved. After nearly a decade as general manager in Boston where he won two World Series titles, Epstein decided change would be a good thing. 
“After 10 years, no matter how passionate you are, you see the same issues, day after day and you are around the same peo­ple day after day,” Epstein said. “You are around the same land­scape day after day for 10 years and eventually you will benefit from a new landscape and fresh problems.” 
Fresh problems? There are plenty of those in Chicago. 
Epstein was introduced as the new president of baseball opera­tions for the Cubs on Tuesday, going from one team that ended its long championship drought while he was at the helm to one desperately searching for a title after more than a century of fu­tility and frustration. 
“I think it’s equally as big a challenge,” Epstein said Tues­day. 
There is so much work to do, from building a strong minor league system and sharp scout­ing to putting together an evalu­ation system that is on the cut­ting edge. All while trying to win with moves that make sense. 
“I didn’t use the world rebuild­ing and I wouldn’t. I think that is just a buzzword in baseball that leads people down the wrong path,” Epstein said. 
“The best way I can describe it is there are parallel fronts — the job of building the scouting and player development foundation that is going to serve well for the long haul and treating every op­portunity to win as sacred.” 
The 37-year-old Epstein left the Red Sox with a year left on his contract as general manager. The teams made the announce­ment Friday night, but held off on the news conference until Tuesday, a travel day for the World Series. 
Epstein got a five-year deal worth a reported $18.5 million. The Cubs and Red Sox still have to hash out compensation for Ep­stein and a Major League Base­ball spokesman confirmed that Commissioner Bud Selig has set a Nov. 1 deadline or else he will mediate the issue. 
With that pending, the focus was squarely on Epstein, with nearly 100 media members at­tending his inaugural news conference and “Cubs Welcome Theo Epstein” splashed across the famous Wrigley Field mar­quee at the corner of Clark and Addison on Tuesday morning. 
The Cubs haven’t won a World Series since 1908 and one of Epstein’s first decisions will be deciding the future of manager Mike Quade, who has a year left on his two-year deal. Chicago was 71-91 last season and the team Epstein inherits will not be nearly as talented as the one he took over with the Red Sox in 2002. 
“I need to get to know Mike Quade better. I had a great con­versation with him on the phone. We’re going to get together over the next week,” Epstein said. 
Various reports say the Cubs aren’t through bringing in front office staff from other teams and San Diego’s GM Jed Hoyer and Padres assistant Jason McLeod could be reunited with Epstein in Chicago. The three worked together in Boston and Hoyer could be the Cubs’ new GM. 
Epstein wouldn’t comment directly on Hoyer but said if the Cubs do bring in a GM it will be because of his talent. 
“Obviously, there is some scut­tlebutt going on right now about things that are happening,” Ep­stein said. “I think it was impor­tant to develop a structure that allowed for the hiring of the GM if we got the right person.” 
When the Red Sox won the World Series in 2004, it ended talk of the so-called “Curse of the Bambino” that hung over the team, supposedly for send­ing Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees. 
Of course, the Cubs have one of their own. As legend has it, they were cursed by a tavern owner at the 1945 World Series when he was asked to leave a game because he was accompa­nied by his pet goat. 
“I don’t believe in curses and I guess I played a small part in helping prove they don’t exist from a baseball standpoint,” Ep­stein said. “I do believe you can be honest and up front about the fact that a certain organiza­tion hasn’t gotten the job done and hasn’t won a World Series in a long time. And that’s the approach we took in Boston. It wasn’t a curse.” 
Epstein fits the description owner Tom Ricketts put forth after he fired Jim Hendry this summer — he uses math and formulas as one way to deter­mine the value of players while also combining those evalua­tions with scouting. 
The new owner, whose fam­ily took over the Cubs two years ago, was all smiles Tuesday in introducing Epstein, who was the youngest GM in major league history when he took over at 28 in Boston back in 2002 and trumped that by becoming the youngest GM to win a World Se­ries title. 
“We began that search in Au­gust and I said I was looking for someone with a background in player development, someone who has a proven track record of success, someone who has a strong analytical background and someone who has experi­ence in creating a culture of winning,” Ricketts said. “It was also important to me that that person who would not be content with past successes but would build on those success to im­prove themselves and improve the organization.” 
Under Epstein’s guidance, Boston went 839-619 (.575) in the regular season and a 34-23 in the playoffs, winning more than 90 games in all but two seasons. 
He acquired such stars as David Ortiz, Curt Schilling, Ja­son Bay and Adrian Gonzalez, though he will be remembered for bringing in highly-priced players who fell short, including Edgar Renteria, Daisuke Mat­suzaka, John Lackey and Carl Crawford. 
Epstein has a history of smart draft moves (Jacoby Ellsbury, Dustin Pedroia and Clay Buch­holz) and he has spent freely. 
Epstein quickly pointed out that winning a championship doesn’t happen over night but with the right moves a strug­gling team can get right back into contention the following season. 
“We’re going to have to grind our way to the top,” he said. 
He said the Cubs would be ac­tive in free agency, but wouldn’t commit to whether the Cubs might be interested in a big-name, long-term star like Prince Fielder or Albert Pujols. 
“There will be a time and place for that,” he said. “I’m not going to say whether it’s now or down the road.” 

LA LIGA 

Xavi leads Barcelona to top of standings 


Associated Press 
MADRID — Xavi Hernandez celebrated his record-setting appearance by scoring Barce­lona’s only goal in a 1-0 victory at Granada on Tuesday that put it provisionally top of the Spanish standings. 
Xavi, who surpassed Migue­li with his club record 392nd league appearance, curled a free kick from outside the area over the defensive wall into the top left corner for the 33rd-minute winner. 
Granada had little posses­sion inside Barcelona’s half and were further limited after Jaime Romero was sent off in the 53rd. Barcelona lost forward Pedro Rodriguez to injury shortly after. 
Granada striker Dani Benitez was also sent off in added time for protesting. 
Barcelona leads with 21 points, one better than Levante and two over Real Madrid, which plays Villarreal on Wednesday. Surprise package Levante can reclaim top spot with a seventh straight victory when it faces Real Sociedad. 
Also Tuesday, Manu del Moral extended Sevilla’s best start in 67 years by heading home an injury-time equalizer to sal­vage a 2-2 draw against Racing Santander. 
Barcelona coach Pep Guardio­la gave youth team player Isaac Cuenca his first start on the left wing, leaving David Villa and Andres Iniesta on the bench, while Carles Puyol was rested and left out of the squad. 
Granada was keen to coun­terattack and often sent testing long balls toward Barcelona de­fender Javier Mascherano, but the Argentine — who is normally a midfielder — comfortably dealt with those inconveniences. 
Lionel Messi, looking to re­discover his scoring touch after having an injury-time penalty saved in a 0-0 draw against Sevilla on Saturday, displayed some slick dribbling in the 13th but sent a left-footed shot wide of the far post. 
The 20-year-old Cuenca had a go from a similar position soon after but also curled it wide. 
Pedro headed a clear chance wide in the 22nd while goalkeep­er Roberto Fernandez was well-placed to save Eric Abidal’s effort a few minutes. Barcelona’s over­whelming hold on the ball then finally resulted in Xavi’s fourth league goal of the season. 
“We didn’t circulate the ball quick enough,” Guardiola said. “We were slower than usual but we still did well to control the game. 
“Granada did great work to­night. We didn’t reach the level we should be at, while they did.” 
Jaime was shown a second yel­low card for kicking Maxwell in the face in a bid to reach the ball, right before Pedro came off with a left leg injury after twisting awkwardly. Villa replaced his fellow Spain international and set up Messi just before the hour mark, but defender Diego Mainz cleared the Argentina forward’s chip off the line. 
Roberto denied Cuenca a goal on his debut in the 70th and Granada finally looked to have its first shot on goal six minutes later when substitute Alexandre Gaijo was played through on Vic­tor Valdes but a questionable off­side flag was raised. 
Benitez was shown a second yellow following another con­tentious offside call as Granada failed to lodge a shot on Valdes’ goal. 
Barcelona remains unbeaten after 15 games in all competi­tions this season. Granada’s win­less run stretched to six games and kept it 18th. 
Sevilla, which last started this well during its league-winning campaign of 1944-45, frequently exposed Santander’s defense on set plays, including when Del Moral met Jose Angel Campana’s free kick untouched for a 37th­minute opener. 
Santander goalkeeper Anto­nio Rodriguez made good saves from Emir Spahic and Del Moral to keep the visitors in the match and Papakouly Diop started a perfectly executed counterat­tack in the 64th that ended with Ariel Nahuelpan heading home Adrian Gonzalez’s cross for the equalizer. 
Diop released Jairo Samperio along the right side five minutes later and the Santander mid­fielder shot over Sevilla goal­keeper Javi Varas into the roof of the net to atone for an earlier miss from a similar spot. 
On the verge of its first win, Santander finally capitulated as Del Moral beat his marker to a ball into the box to head home an equalizer in the 92nd min­ute that left Sevilla four points behind Barcelona. Santander joined Granada on five points. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Big 12 poised to add West Virginia 
Associated Press 
The Big 12 has a replacement lined up for Missouri before it even leaves the conference. 
The Big East, meanwhile, is in danger of losing another school before replacing the three that already have bailed on the league. 
Acting quickly to make sure it maintains a 10-member lineup, the Big 12 approved bringing in West Virginia to replace Mis­souri when the Tigers com­plete their move to the South­eastern Conference, a person with knowledge of the decision told The Associated Press on Tuesday. 
The person spoke on condi­tion of anonymity because the Big 12 had not announced that the conference board of direc­tors on Monday unanimously approved inviting West Virgin­ia when Missouri’s spot comes open. 
The move is another step to­ward stabilizing a Big 12 that seemed on the verge of collapse about a month ago when Texas and Oklahoma were pondering a move to the Pac-12. 
On the other side, West Vir­ginia’s pending departure from the Big East, which has lost two members and one member-to-be in the last six weeks, leaves the embattled conference facing another cri­sis. 
The Big East is trying to re­configure as a 12-team football league and has been court­ing Boise State, Navy and Air Force as football-only mem­bers and Central Florida, SMU and Houston for all sports. Commissioner John Marinatto met with officials from some of those schools Sunday in Wash­ington. 
Because there is no timetable for Missouri to complete its ex­pected departure from the Big 12 — and the league’s board of directors expressed “a strong de­sire” for Missouri to stay — there is no timetable for West Virginia to receive a formal invitation, the person said. 
But West Virginia will accept an invitation from the Big 12 once it is offered, the person said. 
During an interview Tuesday with KFRU-AM in Columbia, Mo., Missouri Chancellor Brady Deaton said it would be “days” or “a week or two” before the school announced its decision. 
Interim Big 12 Commissioner Chuck Neinas has said he ex­pects Missouri to compete in the Big 12 in 2012, though Deaton has said that if Missouri does make a move, he’d like the Tigers to be playing in their new confer­ence next fall. 



ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Irish win two of first three 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
So much for a relaxing Fall Break. After cruising to a pair of victories during a double dual meet Oct. 15 against TCU and Oakland, the Irish hosted No. 4 Auburn on Friday. 
Against the Horned Frogs (3-1) and the Golden Bears (2­4), the Irish (2-1) won six of 16 total events, led by sophomore Kelly Ryan’s victories in the 100- and 200-yard backstroke. Freshman Bridget Casey was also impressive, earning a pair of runner-up finishes in the 500- and 1,000-yard free­style races as Notre Dame de­feated TCU (173-127) and Oak­land (207-93). 
Though Notre Dame record­ed some impressive individual performances against the Ti­gers (2-0), including junior diver Jenny Chiang’s victories in the one- and three-meter dives, Auburn proved too tal­ented. The Tigers prevailed 167-125. 
Irish coach Brian Barnes said that he won’t dwell on the loss to Auburn, but also said it was important for his team’s development. 
“I’m not a big fan of moral victories,” Barnes said. “How­ever, having a ranked team like Auburn come in . you learn a lot about who you are and you begin to see the team dynamic begin to take shape. We live by the one-minute rule . one minute to get over a great swim, one minute to get over a bad swim. We’re always look­ing to the next one, and how we competed against Auburn was very important for me.” 
Because the Irish are still adjusting to the pace of com­petition, Barnes said fall meets are important for the coaching staff to evaluate a team re­turning from the offseason. 
“Everyone’s gradually get­ting in better shape now that we are into our actual season,” Barnes said. “The early stages are about gathering a lot of information about the team. We have 10 freshmen on this team, so we are learning a lot. The road to March really is a learning experience.” 
Casey’s impressive show­ing so far this season has not necessarily surprised Barnes, though he said he is still in the process of evaluating her skills. 
“I really didn’t have any ex­pectations,” Barnes said of Casey heading into this year. “She is a U.S. National Junior Team member, she comes from a great family and a great club team. We recruited her to come to Notre Dame to be successful, but I’m still ob­serving very objectively at this point and I will be for a while.” 
Though still gauging Casey’s ability and role on the team, Barnes said she has caught his attention. 
“Her performance at Au­burn was even more impres­sive than against TCU and Oakland,” he said. “She had to swim the 1,000-free and then she came back and got her first win at Notre Dame in the 200-back. She’s one to keep your eye on.” 
Notre Dame next competes at Pittsburgh at 4 p.m. on Fri­day. 
Contact Cory Bernard at                  cbernard@nd.edu 
NHL 

Lightning come from behind to win 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. — Mathieu Garon didn’t panic when he surrendered a pair of goals on the first three shots he faced. He just took a step back, refocused, and watched his teammates climb out of an early hole. 
Garon made 36 saves to help lift the Tampa Bay Lightning to a sweep of their home-and­home series with the Buffalo Sabres with a 4-3 comeback win on Tuesday night. 
“You have to forget about the goals because if you give up an­other one it’s probably over,” Garon said. “You just have to worry about the next shot and battle through.” 
Vincent Lecavalier, Nate Thompson, Steven Stamkos, and Ryan Malone all scored for the Lightning (4-3-2), who de­feated the Sabres 3-0 on Satur­day in Tampa Bay. 

Garon was given a third straight start after registering That’s when the Lightning his 20th career shutout Satur-began to take some of the play day. He tightened up after al-away from the Sabres, who lowing those two quick goals came in with the stingiest in the first 2:31 of the game, defense in the Eastern Con-giving Tampa Bay a chance to ference. They finally broke erase the deficit and win its through on goals by Lecavalier third in a row. and Thompson, with Lecavalier 
“One of the toughest games scoring on a wrist shot from the I’ve ever had to coach in the slot with just under 7 minutes NHL, if not the toughest,” said left in the first, and Thompson second-year Lightning coach tying it with a goal with just 60 Guy Boucher. “We didn’t come seconds remaining in the open-out at first, and we were giv-ing period. ing the puck away every two “We knew they were go-seconds. You’re looking at your ing to come out with a strong bench and saying, ‘I’ve got no-start, but yet we weren’t ready,” body to throw out there.’ So Malone said. “They were win-slowly we had to build them, ning the battles and took it to one guy at a time.” us early. We just tried to keep it 
Buffalo’s first two goals came simple because we knew there just 35 seconds apart. Thomas was a lot of game left.” Vanek got his seventh after Nathan Gerbe also scored, stealing the puck from Light-and Boyes added an assist for ning defenseman Eric Brewer the Sabres (5-3-0), who’ve now at the blue line, then going in squandered leads in both of and slipping the puck between their losses in Buffalo so far Garon’s legs. this season. 
Then Brad Boyes made it “We got on them hard, we 2-0 when he put a backhand in skated well, and did some good from the slot. things early on,” Sabres captain Jason Pominville said. “After that, we kind of slipped away from our game.” 


Ryan Miller, making his fourth consecutive start, fin­ished with 19 saves for Buffalo. 
“We all have to get better,” he said. “We can’t get rattled, and we have to keep going.” 
Up 3-2 after two periods, Malone pushed the lead to 4-2 with a breakaway goal with 
1:23 to go in regulation, but Gerbe cut it to one goal just 33 seconds later to cap the scoring. 
With the score tied 2-2 after one period, Stamkos made it 3-2 when he re-directed a shot from the point through Miller’s legs. 
With three consecutive wins under their belt, the Lightning have rebounded after a dismal 1-3-2 start. 
“We were floating around and not supporting the puck, but now we’re not turning the puck over as much,” Malone said about the turnaround. “It wasn’t a pretty game for us, but we found a way to win.” 
ROWING 
Varsity four boat takes fifth in prestigious race 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
The Head of the Charles Re­gatta in Boston annually brings together some of the world’s top rowing competition from the high school, collegiate and club levels. In the championship four-race, only one university finished ahead of the Irish. 
Notre Dame clocked a time of 18:40.01, good enough for fifth place overall. The Vesper Boat Club took first with a time of 18:21.85. Virginia, the only school to top the Irish, finished second at 18:34.40. Defend­ing national champions Brown rowed a 19:00.23, placing sev­enth. 
As one of the most prestigious regattas in the world, thousands of spectators lined the Charles River over the weekend to watch the myriad races. Irish coach Martin Stone said he made his team aware of the magnitude of the event during practice the previous week. “We talked about [the crowds] beforehand,” he said. “It’s an incredible atmo­sphere for this type of race. It’s gotten a lot bigger. I remember 10 or 12 years ago it was a one-day regatta. This year, they were estimating about a quarter of a million people would be watch­ing from the shore over the weekend.” 
Although Notre Dame’s four-crew could not replicate the fan­fare of the regatta in practice, it handled it well according to Stone. 
“It was crazy,” Stone said of the atmosphere in Boston. “You can’t really prepare for it, but at the end of the day it’s a time trial. You’re racing against the clock, and we’ve done a tremen­dous amount of those.” 
Toward the end of the race, Notre Dame encountered a po­tentially damaging hurdle. Head­ing into the final bridge, the Irish encountered some slower traffic. Stone said his squad practiced for such a situation, and junior coxswain Abby Meyers guided the boat out of trouble. 
“We had prepared for [such a situation], knowing we were starting in the back of the field and we might run into some slower traffic,” Stone said. “To her credit, Abby saw what was going on, and since the other team wouldn’t yield, she shut it down for a few seconds to make sure we had a clear path.” 
By virtue of finishing fifth, the Irish are guaranteed a spot in next year’s Head of the Charles Regatta. According to Stone, Notre Dame hopes to return an­nually. 
“It’s a race that has a lot of value,” he said. “It’s definitely a place we should be as a pro­gram.” 
Despite Notre Dame’s impres­sive showing against some of the nation’s best, Stone said he has to see his team in more races to accurately gauge its ability. 
“This race gives us a base idea of where we are in the general field. Spring is a long way away still. We’ll have a better idea after we race Indiana and then Ohio State, Michigan State and Indiana again.” 
The Irish next race the Hoo­siers in Indianapolis on Nov. 6. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
FORMULA ONE 
New Jersey set to host historic race 
Associated Press 
WEEHAWKEN, N.J. — New Jersey will host its first-ever Formula One Grand Prix race in 2013 on a course that winds along the Hudson River water­front and offers striking views of the Manhattan skyline. 
Auto racing officials and Gov. Chris Christie on Tuesday an­nounced a ten-year agreement to hold the race at a news con­ference in front of the Port Im­perial ferry terminal, which will serve both as entry point for race-goers coming from New York and as the start-finish line for competitors. 
The 3.2-mile course will run along the river through the towns of Weehawken and West New York, then climb uphill be­fore looping back around in front of the ferry terminal. It features one hairpin turn and several other 90-degree turns. Promot­ers estimated drivers will reach speeds up to 200 miles per hour on the course’s straightaways and about 60 to 80 mph on the turns. 
Steve Matchett, a commenta­tor on Formula One races for the SPEED network, called the course layout and views “abso­lutely staggering” and compared it to the famed Monte Carlo course for its proximity to water and its steep climb. 
Leo Hindery, a founding chair­man and former CEO of the YES Network who is promoting the race, said that aside from a pit area being constructed in front of the terminal, only temporary structures such as bleachers, 10- to 12-foot-high fences and concrete barriers will be erect­ed and then removed after the race. Work will begin next year to resurface the road along the course, he said. 
No public funds will be used to stage the race, Christie said. 
“Once again, this proves to everyone that the New Jersey comeback continues at full tilt,” he said. The state hosted an NCAA regional basketball final this year, and will host the Iron-man triathlon competition next year and the Super Bowl in 2014. 
West New York Mayor Felix Roque called the awarding of the race “the second miracle on the Hudson” in reference to the safe landing of a US Airways jet on the river in 2009, and said the race would bring worldwide at­tention and economic growth to the region. 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles look to break losing streak against Adrian 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s, which has fallen short in its last seven games, looks to break the streak with a victory over Adrian today. 
The Belles (7-16, 5-9 MIAA) defeated Adrian (7-19, 4-9) Sept. 28 in a dominating 3-0 victory. 
“They’re a tough team,” Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. “It’s really important for us to play our game if we want to win.” 
Kuschel said the losses have been tough, but her team has played good volley­ball in every match, keeping pace with many of the teams it has played. She said her players know what they need to do in order to secure a win against Adrian. 
“They’re very aware that we had some tough losses last week,” Kuschel said. “They’re capable of so much more, so they’re looking to play their best volleyball [in] the last week of the season.” 
The Belles are currently ranked sixth in their con­ference and have only two more games remaining in the regular season. Kuschel said she is looking for everyone to step up and perform to the best of her ability in the last two games. 
Consistent leaders for the team have been freshman outsider hitter Kati Schnei­der, who leads the team in kills, as well as senior de­fensive hitter Meghann Rose, who has been a leader in digs in her four years at Saint Mary’s. Junior setter Danie Brink has also performed well this season and has earned nearly 100 assists in her last five games. 
Through the losses, Kus­chel said she has noticed that her team has been working to improve in every match, and the upcoming match will be a good indication of how far the team has come this season. 
“We’re focused on what we need to do to get better ev­ery time we step out on the court,” Kuschel said. “We need to play our level of vol­leyball.” 
The Belles will attempt to break their losing streak to­day at 7 p.m. at Adrian. 
Contact Katie Heit at                  kheit@nd.edu 



poll to No. 23. 
“Until we line up at the re­gional meet and earn a spot at the NCAAs, being ranked doesn’t mean a lot,” Connelly said. “Right now, rankings are just someone’s opinion.” 
On the men’s side, junior Jeremy Rae paced the Irish, finishing the eight-kilometer race in 76th place with a time of 24:41. Sophomores Martin Grady and Walter Schafer and junior J.P. Malette also fin­ished the race in less than 25 minutes. 
“We raced a lot better than we did at [the Notre Dame Invitational],” Rae said. “We beat some ranked teams, which was good.” 
Rae, an NCAA track All-American last year, ran in just his second race this year for the Irish, finishing the slightly shorter race 30 seconds faster than his debut. 
“[My performance] was all right,” Rae said. “I’m coming along but, as a team, we’re still getting better.” 
Arizona freshman Lawi Lal­and won the race, finishing in 
23:10. Despite Lalang’s strong 
three victories on the day, in-finish, the Wildcats placed 
Relays 
cluding a 174-119 victory over 36th. Wisconsin finished first 
the Irish. Notre Dame finished while Brigham Young, who 
continued from page 20 at 2-1 with victories over the won the Notre Dame Invi-
Golden Grizzlies (194-100) tational, and Stanford also 
dominating one for Michigan, and Horned Frogs (174-126). placed in the top three. 
however, as the Wolverines Dyer led the Irish with two “We’re not at that level yet 
took 10 of the next 11 races gold medal performances in to be competing with top-five 
on their way to a first place the 100-meter and 200-me­
20:00. teams,” Rae said. “Our main finish. ter freestyle, turning in times 

Rydberg Washington, which placed goal right now is to place well For a team that features 12 of 44.57 and 1:37.92. Dyer’s three runners in the top 25, at the Big East [champion­
freshmen swimmers and four mark in the 200-meter free-continued from page 20 won the race while Vander-ships].” 
freshmen divers, the Stark style was the nation’s fastest bilt and Arizona rounded out Notre Dame defeated ranked 

Relays were a much-needed this season. He was named chel Velarde each finished the the top three. Notre Dame did, teams Georgetown, Syracuse, 
learning experience, Irish the Big East Athlete of the course in just over 21:30 as however, top seven ranked New Mexico and North Caroli­
coach Tim Welsh said. Week in men’s swimming and both scored for the Irish. teams . Providence, Minne-na in the race. The Irish reen­
“It was a very positive start diving Monday for his perfor­“I didn’t think that overall sota, Florida, Iowa, Brigham tered the USTFCCCA national 
for us, lots of positive excite-mance. we had a great race,” Connelly Young, Princeton and Clem-rankings at No. 29. 
ment,” Welsh said. “It’s the The Irish also took gold in said. “As a group, there was son. The Irish return to the 
beginning, not the end. As the the 1-meter springboard as a pretty big gap between [our As a result, the Irish moved course for the Big East cham­
season progresses we want to freshman Nick Nemetz totaled runners]. We didn’t do a good up from No. 25 in the United pionships Saturday. 
place higher, but I was happy 332.55 points. job of running together.” States Track and Field and 
with the results. For a lot of “We did a lot of swimming in Villanova senior Sheila Reid Cross Country Coaches Asso-Contact Matthew DeFranks at 
our team, this is something a 24-hour period,” Welsh said. won the race, clocking in at ciation (USTFCCCA) national mdefrank@nd.edu 
they’ve been looking forward “From Friday to Saturday we to for over a year. There’s saw a lot of competitiveness something special about and a lot of excitement. Espe­swimming in the Notre Dame cially for our young swimmers cap for the first time.” and divers, this was a great 
On Saturday, the Irish faced result.” 
off against a familiar slate The Irish return to the pool 
of foes in a dual meet with Friday at Pittsburgh. 
Michigan, Oakland and TCU. 
Similar to the previous day, Contact Conor Kelly at                  
the Wolverines took first with ckelly17@nd.edu 
Day during its match against 
Albion 
Olivet on Saturday, but its fi­nal home game of the season continued from page 20 was marred by a 2-1 loss to 
the Comets (3-14, 3-10), who 
combined score of 12-1. They scored an early goal in each 
haven’t scored a goal in their half. 
last three matches, and were While the Belles are fo­
shut out 5-0 by Calvin at cused on securing a vic­
home Saturday. tory, soccer will not be the 
“I think we’re in good only item on Wednesday’s shape for the game against agenda. The team will be Albion,” Joyce said. “I think honoring Domestic Violence the losses last week have Awareness month by wear-motivated us to get back on ing a specially made purple track in the win column.” shirt . the color of domestic 
The Belles are in sixth violence awareness. 
place in the MIAA conference “This is our second year 
standings with 12 points, promoting domestic vio­
while the Britons are lan-lence awareness through the 
guishing in last place with Belles Against Violence Of-
one point, earned in their tie fice (BAVO) here on campus,” 
with Trine on Oct. 12. Adri-Joyce said. “We will have an 
an leads the league with 36 empowerment wall serving 
points and a 12-2 conference as a message board and a ta­
record. ble with flyers, information, 
While the Belles had trou-statistics, food, desserts, hot 
ble of late offensively, they chocolate and tie dye T-shirt 
are ahead of the winless making. There will also be 
Britons, whose woeful sea-a number of people on hand 
son record includes a 2-1 from the BAVO department 
loss to the Belles at their to answer any questions peo­
home field in September. Al-ple have.” 
bion has only scored 12 goals The Belles will face off 
this season, three of which with the Britons at home 
came in an overtime loss to Wednesday at 4 p.m. 
Kalamazoo Sept. 17, while 
Albion celebrated Senior vjacobse@nd.edu 







Johnson 
continued from page 20 
Dame (4-3) will depend on some younger players to take on a larger role, Kelly said. 
“Well, you know, you’ve got great flexibility because we have [freshman defen­sive end] Chase Hounshell activated,” he said. “Chase is in the mix. Certainly [sophomore defensive end] Kona [Schwenke] is the in mix, as well as [freshman defensive end Stephon] Tuitt has flexibility to play inside and outside. And if we can get some work from Ethan, that helps us out.” 
The injuries come at an especially inopportune time with the Irish preparing to face Navy and its triple-option offense, a unit that gashed Notre Dame for 367 rushing yards in a 35-17 win in 2010. 
“Kapron and Ethan prob­ably have more experience against the option than any­body here in terms of actu­ally understanding their jobs and what to do,” Kelly said. “But, you know, we’ll call on the next guy.” 
In what Kelly called “In­tense Tuesday,” the Irish were in full pads and hitting at practice as the team pre­pares for the Midshipmen. 
“You know, I think we have to get into a routine that we practice similar to the way that we want to play without putting our team at risk for injury,” he said. “But certainly we have to have a very spirited practice during the week so that our football team is prepared to play the right way on Satur­day. And that falls on me in terms of the preparation.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at             aowens2@nd.edu 
Streak 
continued from page 20 
“I don’t think it’s any one thing [that marks the differ­ence between the streaks,]” Maund said. “We were play­ing well, and as long as you keep playing well, goals are going to come. Sometimes you get lucky, sometimes you don’t, but if you keep playing well eventually you are go­ing to get lucky. [We’ve been] staying true to our style of play, staying true to just be­lieving in our system and in the players that we have, and the coaching staff.” 
The Friars carry a winning streak of their own into the contest, earning victories in their last three games. Providence is led by junior midfielder Mark Cintron, the most recent Big East Offen­sive Player of the Week, who recorded two goals and one assist last week for the Fri­ars. 
The Irish captured last year’s contest between the two teams, 2-1, and hold a decisive 13-2-1 lead in the series record, but the Friars could prove to be a tough test for Notre Dame this year, Irish coach Bobby Clark said. 
“Providence is definitely a very good team, and they are having a very good year this year,” he said. “It’s a small, bumpy field [at Providence], so that’s something that we will have to deal with. We are used to playing on our field, which is big, full size and nice and flat. They’re field is not nearly as condu­cive to playing good soccer, so we’ll have to adapt to the layout. It’ll be a good test.” 


For the Irish, the game is a valuable opportunity to for­tify their standing in the Big East Blue Division, but also a chance to preserve momen­tum as they move into the postseason, Maund said. 
“This whole season has been a work in progress, and we are still progressing and still getting better,” he said. 
“I think the team realizes that we just want to peak at the right time. So hopefully that right time is the nation­al championship title.” 
With postseason and con­ference implications very much on the line, Notre Dame will take the field to­day at 3 p.m. at Providence’s Glay Field in its final road game of the season. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at             jmonardo@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



DAVID L. HOYT                              

LONDON EXPRESS ALEx GRISWOLD AND LEE HAGGENJOS JUMBLE AND JEFF KNUREK 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 


Wednesday, October 26, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Lewis-Moore out for year 
Senior defensive end suffers detached MCL 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
Following Saturday’s 31­17 loss to USC that effec­tively ruined any Irish BCS Bowl-game aspirations, Notre Dame was dealt an­other blow when senior de­fensive end Kapron Lewis­Moore’s season was ended due to a knee injury. 
“[Lewis-Moore] has a knee injury. I think I said I thought he had an ankle injury, but that wasn’t the case. It was a knee injury,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said Tuesday. 
“It was a very unusual injury … We’re still talk­ing four to six months [that Lewis-Moore will be out]. But [the injury is] one that I haven’t seen in 21 years and our doctors have seen very rarely, so it was hard to get a good assessment on 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles host MIAA foe Albion 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Belles begin their fi­nal push for a winning re­cord when they host Albion on Wednesday. 
“We’re at 8-9 with three games to go, so we’re still shooting for a winning sea­son,” Belles coach Michael Joyce said. 
Saint Mary’s (8-9, 4-9 MIAA) will need a victory in each of its remaining match­es against Albion (0-16-1, 0-12-1), Trine and Hope in order to finish the season with a winning record, but to do that the Belles will need to turn around their recent skid. 
The Belles have dropped their last four contests by a 
see ALBION/page 17 

him until the MRI yester­day.” 
Sophomore quarterback Tommy Rees, junior safety Zeke Motta and senior de­
MEN’S SWIMMING 

Wolverines dominate field at Stark Relays 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish opened their sea­son with events on consecutive days, taking second in both the Dennis Stark Relays and the first dual meet of the year on Oct. 14 and Oct. 15, respectively. 
The Stark Relays featured Michigan, Oakland, Valparaiso and TCU, and the Irish took second place with 156 points. Michigan took first with 200 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
points. 
The day started off well for the Irish as the 200-meter free­style relay team of junior Chris­topher Johnson, junior John McGinley, sophomore Frank Dyer and junior Kevin Overholt won the first race of the day, posting a time of 1:22.01 that beat second-place TCU by al­most three seconds. 
The day quickly turned into a 
see RELAYS/page 17 

Rydberg paces ND at adidas invitational 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
With two different champion­ship meets just around the cor­ner, the Irish prepped by com­peting against 37 ranked teams in both the men’s and women’s fields at the Wisconsin adidas Invitational. The women’s team finished 15th, while the men’s squad placed 19th. 
“Probably 20-plus teams at Wisconsin will be at the NCAA meet,” Irish women’s coach Tim Connelly said. “This was as close a regular season race to the NCAAs we will we ever see.” 
For the fourth consecutive race, junior Jessica Rydberg led the Irish. She ran the six-kilo­meter course in 20:46.5, good enough for 36th place. 
“She’s been big,” Connelly said of Rydberg. “We struggled last year without a front-run­ner. She’s getting more fit every week and gaining more confi­dence with each race.” 
Senior Susanna Sullivan and sophomore Alexa Aragon fol­lowed Rydberg, placing 81st and 85th, respectively. Junior Rebecca Tracy and senior Ra-
see RYDBERG/page 17 
fensive end Ethan Johnson all practiced Tuesday after injuries sustained Satur­day or, in Johnson’s case, two weeks ago. 
With Johnson not at full strength and Lewis-Moore out for the season, Notre 
see JOHNSON/page 18 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Irish look to clinch playoff spot 

By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
As the conclusion of the regular season nears, No. 15 Notre Dame’s position seems to be simultaneously perilous and promising. With only one spot unclaimed in the Blue Division, the Irish have not yet clinched a berth in the Big East championships, but have the opportunity to climb up the rankings when they travel to Providence Wednesday. 
Notre Dame (7-3-4, 3-2-1 Big East) currently occupies the sixth and final postseason position in the division, but seventh-place Pittsburgh still threatens. A win over Provi­dence (9-5-1, 4-2-1) would guarantee the Irish a ticket to the conference champion­ships and help them pull even with the rest of the pack. 
“I think we are in the posi­tion where our fate is in our hands,” senior captain Aaron Maund said. 
“At the beginning of the season, if you had said that going into the last week of Big East play, your fate is in your hands, a lot of teams would be pretty satisfied with that.” 
While most of the teams in the postseason race have only two games left on their sched­ules, the Irish have three games remaining, providing them with an extra opportu­nity to accumulate points and improve their seeding. Al­though they are paying atten­tion to the conference stand­ings, the Irish remain focused on their upcoming game. 
“We have an eye on [the standings], of course,” Maund said. “But we still try to focus on ourselves because that is the only thing that we have control over. We try to affect the things that we can control … and worry about that stuff more than about the stand­ings and what other teams are doing, because all that will work itself out.” 
The Irish head into their game against Providence riding a two-game winning streak in which they netted six total goals, the same number scored in their previous seven games combined. The two-game winning streak comes on the heels of a four-game winless streak where the Irish struggled to score goals despite feeling as though they had outplayed their opponent. 
see STREAK/page 18 






