
. 
COMMENTARY 

Untraditional moves build winning culture 
It’s not difficult to pin­point the reasons for Notre Dame’s .500 record. Late turnovers in the red zone, poor decision-making at the quarterback position and a tired defense that spends too much time on the field have all contributed to the two blemishes on the Irish record. 
As such, Notre Dame has a slew of on-field issues to deal with before it returns to the gridiron against Purdue. None­theless, Brian Kelly and his coach­ing staff have their work cut out for them off the field as well. 
Traditional problems lead to traditional solutions. Better decision-making late in games and better time-management are battles within the game Kelly can coach improvement in his players. 
As for bringing Notre Dame back to the elite level in college football, tradition may be less of a guide. 
In essence, Kelly was tasked with much more than simply bringing a championship to Notre Dame when Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick handed him the keys to col­lege football’s most-storied castle. Kelly inherited a program mired in medioc­rity and set in its ways. 
He had the unenviable mission of bringing Notre Dame into the 21st century of college football — easier said than done when you’re talking about a program that lives and breathes tradition. 
But nothing about Kelly’s approach to Notre Dame thus far has been tradition­al. From his rejection of the pro-style offense in favor of the spread, to changing the gameday players’ walk into Notre Dame Stadium, Kelly has instituted his unortho­dox system in every facet of the football experience. 

And it’s working. 
After putting together a core of freshmen and the No. 7-ranked recruiting class in the nation in his first full season as head coach, Kelly is at it again. Notre Dame already has four five-star recruits committed, the most of any program in the nation. Critics who claim Notre Dame simply can’t recruit like before have been foiled by the impacts freshmen Aaron Lynch, Stephon Tuitt and George Atkinson have already made on Saturdays. 
True, winters in South Bend make Tuscaloosa and Gainesville look like paradise. But unlike his predecessor, Kelly hasn’t sold recruits on three or four years of servitude before a career in the NFL. He’s taken recruiting to the next level by selling players on a collegiate experience unlike any other. 
The decision to start the less physically-gifted Tom­my Rees over Dayne Crist is unconventional. Focusing recruiting efforts on the defensive side of the ball rather than on pure skill players is untraditional (all four 2012 five-star commits are defenders). 
But it’s working, and more changes are coming. 
In his radio show last Thursday, Kelly hinted that the addition of bigger, high-definition scoreboards at Notre Dame Stadium could happen sooner than later. 
“If you’re going to stay in this arena, I’m sure things will eventually change,” Kelly said. “It’s just going to take some time.” 
If you’re going to stay a Notre Dame fan, football as you know it will eventually change. Tradition gives way to progress (and winning). 
It’s just going to take some time. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 30, 2011 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 


Notre Dame builds 2012 class 
By ALLAN JOSEPH hole in Notre Dame’s 2012 class place where he needs to build 
Sports Editor is at offensive tackle, where it, and that’s offensive line and the Irish recently received a defensive line,” Frank said. 
Despite his insistence on re-big commitment – from a 2013 “The big thing is, you’ve got to 
cruiting quality linemen, Irish player, Steve Elmer. control the line of scrimmage. 
coach Brian Kelly has focused “The last thing that they need If you have great offensive line-
his 2012 recruiting class on more than anything, is an of-men and great defensive line-
bringing a number of skill play-fensive tackle,” Frank said. “I’ll men, you’re going to be a really 
ers to campus, Irish recruiting tell you, having a guy like Steve great team. 
expert Mike Frank said. Elmer, the 2013 commit, he’s “It doesn’t matter what skill 
“The biggest priority for this going to be probably the top players you’ve got if you don’t 
class was what they call skill offensive tackle in the whole have good players up front.” 
players,” said M id we s t While Notre Dame may 
Frank, who runs next year not be ranked on the field, 
the ESPN-affili-— having Frank said the Irish recruit-
ate Irish Sports him com-ing class is already one of 
Daily. “They mit early, the best in the country with 
wanted to sign a doesn’t a number of slots to fill. 
good number of “The biggest priority make it “They have the chance to defi­
those players.” quite as nitely go into the top-five or 
for this class was what 
Notre Dame big a need higher depending on who they 
they call skill players.” 
currently holds to get an get,” Frank said. “There are commitments offensive about 6-7 slots left, and I would 
Mike Frank 
from nine skill tackle. If think everybody filling those players, most Irish recruiting expert there’s the slots would be a four-star or notably athlete opportuni-higher. If that’s what they end Ronald Darby, ty to take up with, they’re going to climb receiver Justin one, they’ll into the top-five, I would guess. Ferguson and take one, Right now, because the num­cornerback Tee b e ca u se bers are a little low compared Shepard. With the guys to some others, I’d say they’re months left until signing day, that are considering Notre probably a top-10 class. “ however, Frank expects that Dame right now are too good to number to grow. pass up.” For more on Notre Dame 
“I wouldn’t be surprised if Elmer’s commitment is a re-recruiting, check out Mike 
that number climbs to 11 or minder that despite the focus Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com. 
12, maybe even 13 depending on skill players in the 2012 Email Mike at mikefrank18@ 
on how this shakes out,” Frank class, Kelly is firmly committed sbcglobal.net and tell him The 
said. to developing high-quality line Observer sent you. 
Notre Dame focused on run-play. 
ning back in the 2012 class, a “Brian Kelly is building this Contact Allan Joseph at 
position where the Irish have team at the most important ajoseph2@nd.edu 
had little depth this year. 
“[The Irish] have to get two really good running backs,” Frank said. “I’d be surprised if Will Mahone doesn’t commit sometime soon.” 
If Mahone, from Ohio, com­mits to the Irish, Notre Dame can focus on recruiting more explosive backs that can run in tandem with Mahone’s style. 
“They’ve got three different players coming in … in Keith Marshall, Byron Marshall (no relation) and KeiVarae Rus­sell,” Frank said. “All three of those guys are more speed and quickness, explosive-type play­ers where Mahone is certainly fast and certainly explosive, but he just has a little more size and power. If he commits soon, that solves one issue, and then they can really focus on land­ing one of those three players.” 
Receiver was also an area of concern for the Irish, who will be tasked with replacing senior Michael Floyd after this season. Yet after seeing the Irish land Ferguson and Chris Brown, Frank said Notre Dame is looking for a bit of a different receiver to add to its stable. 
“They’re definitely looking for one more wide receiver that’s kind of a more explosive, slot, Theo Riddick-type player, somebody who can put a lot of pressure on defenses,” Frank said. “That’s really kind of the missing piece they have to get at wide receiver.” 
Notre Dame has also heavily recruited secondary players in the class of 2012, and while the Irish have a number of com­mits with defensive backfield experience, Frank said the Irish would be willing to sign one more. 
“I’m sure they would like to have one more corner if pos­sible,” Frank said. “They’ve really kind of set themselves up with some players that can really help them. A lot of these guys that are thinking about Notre Dame are really on the fence. “ 
Perhaps the most important 



Country boy 
Junior tight end Tyler Eifert spreads his love of country music and football around the Irish 
By ANDREW OWENS Growing up a Boilermaker Eifert’s feet when Rudolph was Associate Sports Editor buff, Eifert often traveled to hampered by a hamstring in-
games and said he has fond jury and eventually underwent 
When junior tight end Tyler memories of watching current season-ending surgery. Eifert returned to campus fol-New Orleans Saints quarterback “I think he kind of got a bap-lowing Notre Dame’s physically Drew Brees in a Purdue uni-tism by fire a year ago with what exhausting 15-12 win over Pitts-form. Those experiences were happened to Kyle,” tight ends burgh on Saturday evening, the not always positive, though. coach Mike Denbrock said. “He simple country boy did what he “Notre Dame usually won and had to grow up fast. I don’t know knows best — he went to a Toby that was annoying,” Eifert said. how ready he was for it, but he Keith concert. As a freshman in 2009, Eifert continues to improve and come 
“[Country] is all I listen to,” did not participate in the 24-21 to practice everyday and work Eifert said Irish victory. his tail off. before rat-Saturday will “What you see in practice tling off a list mark his first you’re kind of confident in, but of his favorite time playing in until you put them in a game country art-the stadium he situation and see what they do, ists. “I used “I feel like Tyler has done knew so well as you don’t really know what you 
to like rap, everything in his power a child. have.” but that’s to set up the offense.” “It will be Eifert responded by mak­just because cool,” he said. ing a name for himself when I liked the Kyle Rudolph “It’s a place I’m he caught 27 passes for 352 beat. I didn’t familiar with. yards and two touchdowns in 
former Notre Dame tight end 

know what  I’ve been there  Rudolph’s absence. The junior  
they’re say- a lot. I just need  played an integral role in the  
ing and now  to approach it  season-ending four-game win- 
that I know  as any other  ning streak, sophomore quar­ 
what they’re  game … I’ve  terback Tommy Rees said.  
saying it’s kind of ridiculous.  been there a million times but  “I think we feel real comfort­ 
[Country fits] my personality I  never played there, so I look for- able with each other,” Rees said.  
guess and the lyrics mean a lot.  ward to it.”  “We both started playing at the  
I enjoy it.”  Eifert was widely recruited  same time last year. As far as  
Although Eifert is a strong  across the Midwest in high  the connection and chemistry, I  
proponent of country music, he  school, but ultimately he chose  think it’s real strong on the field  
has not succeeded in spreading  Notre Dame over Purdue and  and I think our off-the-field rela­ 
the love to all of his teammates.  left behind the memories he had  tionship helps that.”  
“No, I will never [listen to  collected over 17 years. 
country music],” junior running   “Being recruited and decid- Big brother, little brother  
back Cierre Wood said. “I tried,  ing where you’re going to go to  Eifert’s rapid development is  
I honestly tried to listen to coun­ school, it’s a tough decision and  due in large part to Rudolph’s  
try music. Because I asked [my  being so familiar with the place  influence as the two have devel­ 
friends who listen to it,] ‘Why do  and growing up around it, yeah,  oped a close bond and continue  
you guys like country music?’  it made it a tough decision,” he  to stay in touch even now that  
“They were basically telling  said.  Rudolph is playing in the NFL. SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer  
me it’s about having a good day,  When Eifert looks up at the  “He texted me after the [Pitts-Junior tight end Tyler Eifert caught eight passes for 75 yards in  
sitting outside with your friends,  lit-up stands Saturday night, he  burgh] game and we stay in con-last week’s 15-12 victory over Pittsburgh.  
stuff like that. I was like, ‘I can  might see some familiar faces,  tact,” Eifert said. “He’s taught  
dig that.’ But I tried listening to  but he said everything is about  me a lot of what I know about  said Rudolph, now with the Min­ a good job of feeling throughout  
it, and it’s like a ruckus to my  preparing to leave town with a  football and he really helped me  nesota Vikings. “I feel like Tyler  the zones, making himself open.  
ears. I just can’t. I just can’t. I  victory.  adjust to playing at the college  has done everything in his pow­ He’s a big, athletic target. He can  
tried it. I got some selections ...  “When it comes down to it,  level. He’s been a huge part of  er to set up the offense.”  go up and get a lot of the balls.”  
but it all sounds the same to me,  it’s just a football field like any- my success.”  Denbrock said Rudolph’s ad- Rudolph was most impressed  
really.”  where else and that’s how you  Rudolph said he tried to flood  vice combined with game ex- by Eifert’s growth since his  
Saturday marks a homecom­ have to approach it,” he said.  Eifert with information.  perience has been valuable for  freshman year.  
ing of sorts for Eifert — the  “I just tried to give him as  Eifert.  “He’s definitely matured a lot  
country music aficionado and  ‘Baptism by fire’  many tips and tricks as possi­ “I think [learning from Ru- since his first year there, espe­ 
native of Fort Wayne, Ind., who  Last season, Eifert benefited  ble, whether in his preparation  dolph] certainly couldn’t do any­ cially watching the game at Pitt  
played high school football at  from playing behind a preseason  throughout the week or little  thing but help,” Denbrock said.  he just kind of took over at the  
Bishop Dwenger, a mere 119  All-American tight end in Kyle  things I found helpful in route  “I think the thing that probably  end of the game,” Rudolph said.  
miles from Purdue’s Ross-Ade  Rudolph, but that security blan­ running or being able to be a  pushed him forward in his prep­ “A lot of big catches, especially  
Stadium.  ket was pulled away from under  capable blocker as a tight end,”  aration is getting the experience  on the last drive, when he got a  
he got last year unfortunately  big third down and a touchdown  
when Kyle was injured. But  and the two-point conversion.”  
having Kyle here to help kind  
of mentor him and help him  Student-teacher  
through that transition to be- With senior Mike Ragone out  
coming the No. 1 guy was very  for the season with an injury,  
beneficial to him.”  Eifert is by far the most expe- 
Eifert is the next piece in a  rienced tight end on the squad,  
long tradition of elite tight ends  with junior Jake Golic, sopho­ 
at Notre Dame, which includes  more Alex Welch and freshman  
current NFL talents Anthony Fa- Ben Koyack behind him on the  
sano, John Carlson and Rudolph  depth chart. He has now seen  
in a string of dynamic Irish play- a 180-degree shift in his ap­ 
makers.  proach, filling Rudolph’s shoes  
“[Notre Dame] just brings in  in terms of being a mentor for  
the right kind of guys,” Rudolph  younger teammates.  
said. “Guys that work hard, es­ “They’re great tight ends too  
pecially like Tyler. While I was  and if there’s something they  
there, he was always trying to  need help on or advice I can give  
learn and soak up as much in- them, I’m there to do it,” he said.  
formation as he could, even  Although Eifert is now the  
though he wasn’t the starter and  leader of the position on the  
he went out and surprised a lot  team, he said he is still learning  
of people, but the people at prac­ and developing each week, par­ 
tice knew he could [succeed].”  ticularly as a blocker.  
With the Irish trailing Pitts­ “I’d say small things to do  
burgh 12-7 in the fourth quar­ with blocking [are aspects to de­ 
ter last Saturday and senior re­ velop],” he said. “There are still  
ceiver Michael Floyd shut down  some things I need to work on.  
by the defense, Eifert stepped up  Everybody knows that — just the  
in the most telling moment of his  small techniques about where to  
development with eight catches  put my head and little things of  
for 75 yards. On the game-win­ the blocking aspect.”  
ning drive, Rees connected with  So what would be a successful  
his 6-foot-6, 249-pound target  homecoming for Eifert? A pro- 
four times for 34 yards, a touch­ ductive game and a Notre Dame  
down and a two-point conver­ victory, all capped off by listen­ 
sion, earning him John Mackey  ing to some tunes by Toby Keith.  
JULIE HERDER/The Observer  Tight End of the Week honors.  



Junior tight end Tyler Eifert tries to break away from a South Florida defender during Notre Dame’s “He provides a mismatch for Contact Andrew Owens at 23-20 loss to South Florida. Eifert had six catches for 93 yards in that game. us out there,” Rees said. “He does aowens2@nd.edu 
IRISH PASSING IRISH RUSHING IRISH OFFENSIVE 

Tommy Rees struggled with Notre Dame ranks 58th in the COACHING a complex Pittsburgh defensive nation in rushing through four Notre Dame committed two scheme and, until finishing the games and has struggled at turnovers Saturday, its low-game on a 9-for-9 mark, was times to get a consistent flow to est mark of the season, but not 15-of-32. the unit. enough for the coaching staff to 


Head-to 
Purdue is likely to employ Jonas Gray scampered down feel relieved just yet. 
some  of  the  same  tactics  as  the sidelines for Notre Dame’s  Attention must still be paid  
Pittsburgh in order to minimize  longest rush in 11 years when  to the fundamentals. Between  
Michael Floyd’s production and  he recorded a 79-yard second- the 15 Irish turnovers in four  
slow the Irish offense. The se­ quarter touchdown Saturday.  games and penalty issues (the  
nior was held to four receptions  Cierre  Wood  rushed  for  94  Irish committed eight infrac­ 
and 27 yards against the Pan- yards on 23 carries and Brian  tions that cost them 85 yards  
thers. If the Boilermakers are successful in that regard, Notre  Kelly said he was pleased with Wood’s improvement between  against Pittsburgh), the offense cannot be at its best until it cuts  Notre Dame Offense  
Dame will need another player  the tackles.  the mistakes.  
to step up, as tight end Tyler Eif­ Purdue’s opponents have av- Kelly and offensive coordina­ 
ert did last week. The Purdue pass defense ranks 26th in the nation through three games, includ­ing holding Southeast Missouri State to 66 yards through the  eraged 109 yards per game on the ground through three games and have forced their op­ponents to be one-dimensional. Linebacker Joe Holland leads the unit with 27 tackles, and the  tor Charley Molnar will likely try to establish the running game early, which will open up the struggling passing attack. EDGE: EVEN  WR WR  7 16 6 9  TJ Jones DaVaris Daniels Theo Riddick Robby Toma  So. Fr. Jr. Jr.  
air in the 59-0 Boilermaker vic­ defensive line paces the defense  
tory Sept. 17. Much of Notre Dame’s prob­lems on defense can be attribut­ed to the opposition’s pass rush. When Rees is forced to throw  with four tackles for loss. The Irish are still looking for their first complete game when it comes to running the football. Wood and Gray have the ability  RB  20 25  Cierre Wood Jonas Gray  Jr. Sr.  LT LG  70 72 66 76  Zack Martin Nick Martin Chris Watt Andrew Nuss  Jr. Fr. Jr. Sr.  
on the run, he is much less ac­curate. The Boilermakers have recorded four sacks in the first  to control the pace of the game behind the talented Irish offen­sive line, and a balanced attack  QB  11 10  Tommy Rees  Dayne Crist  So. Sr.  C  52 57  Braxston Cave Mike Golic Jr.  Sr. Sr.  
three contests of 2011.  would go a long way toward a Notre Dame win on the road.  RG  78 65  Trevor Robinson Conor Hanratty  Sr. Fr.  
EDGE: EVEN  EDGE: NOTRE DAME  RT  75 74  Taylor Dever Christian Lombard  Sr. So.  
TE  80 18  Tyler Eifert Ben Koyack  Jr. Fr.  
IRISH SCHEDULE  
Sept. 3  South Florida (L, 23–20)  WR  3 81  Michael Floyd John Goodman  Sr. Sr.  
Sept. 10 @ Michigan  
(L, 35-31)  
Sept. 17 Michigan St. (W, 31-13) Sept. 24 @ Pittsburgh (W, 15-12) Oct. 1 @ Purdue Oct. 8 Air Force Oct. 22 USC Oct. 29 Navy Nov. 5 @ Wake Forest Nov. 12 Maryland  IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS Notre Dame continues to struggle on special teams with a shaky punt return situation. David Ruffer missed a 39-yard field goal for the Irish, though three of four Ben Turk punts were downed inside the 20-yard line. George Atkinson and Kyle Brindza are the bright spots in an otherwise struggling unit. Atkinson returned a kickoff 36 yards against Pittsburgh a week after returning a kickoff for a touch­down against Michigan State.  Notre Dame Defense  
Nov. 19 Nov. 26  Boston College @ Stanford  EDGE: PURDUE  CB  12 23  Robert Blanton Lo Wood  Sr. So.  

Notre Dame Specialists 
45 Darius Fleming Sr. 

22 Harrison Smith Sr. 
OLB 
46 Steve Filer Sr. 

97 David Ruffer Sr. S 15 Dan McCarthy Sr. 
PK 
90 Ethan Johnson Sr. 48 Dan Fox Jr. DE 19 Aaron Lynch Fr. 
35 Ben Turk Jr. 
P ILB 
44 Carlo Calabrese Jr. 
9 Louis Nix So. 
NG 98 Sean Cwynar Sr. 

60 Jordan Cowart Jr. 
LS ILB 
5 Manti Te’o Jr. 54 Anthony McDonald Sr. 89 Kapron Lewis-Moore Sr. DE 7 Stephon Tuitt Fr. 
PR 
81 John Goodman Sr. 
6 Theo Riddick Jr. 
55 Prince Shembo So. 

26 Jamoris Slaughter Sr. 
56 Troy Niklas Fr. 

34 George Atkinson Fr. S 17 Zeke Motta Jr. OLB
KR 
28 Austin Collinsworth So. 
4 Gary Gray Sr. 

27 Kyle Brindza Fr. CB 
2 Bennett Jackson So. 

KO 
Predictions 
Allan Joseph 
Sports Editor 

Purdue is not very talented. That’s just a fact. Notre Dame is far and away more athletic, better-coached and more physical than the Boiler­makers are — and yet, this game will be too close for comfort. 
The Boilermakers have a habit of overperforming when they face the Irish. As Irish coach Brian Kelly 
said Wednesday, “it’s their Super Bowl.” The Boilermakers have a habit of making night games difficult for the Irish. 
What’s worse, Notre Dame has a habit of inconsistent play. It’s easy to see the Irish coming out and blowing Purdue off the field, but it’s even easier to see Notre Dame struggle to put away an inferior team. The Irish will win, but it will not be easy, nor will it be pretty. Don’t say I didn’t warn you. 
Douglas Farmer 
Editor-in-Chief 

September has ended. Will Notre Dame wake up? 
If the Irish play as poorly as they did against Pittsburgh, Purdue will win this game. The frustrating fac­tor is the vast talent gap between these two teams favors Notre Dame more now than it did seven years ago, possibly even more than 20 
years ago. 

The short version of this pent-up diatribe comes down to sophomore quarterback Tommy Rees. All sum­mer, he thought his main concern at Ross-Ade Stadium would be staying warm on the sidelines. Obviously, not the case. His main concern now needs to be not turning the ball over. 
Summer has come and passed. The Irish need to last. Hopefully October holds the answers. 
Eric Prister 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will play its fifth straight game against a team it out­matches this weekend. Purdue has struggled mightily so far this season. The Irish should have no trouble on either side of the ball, but that hasn’t stopped them from losing two con­tests and keeping things interesting in another. 

The Irish offense had trouble mov­ing the ball against Pittsburgh, especially through the air. 
Notre Dame’s strength so far has been its defense, and it should have no trouble shutting down Purdue’s dismal offensive attack. 
Notre Dame played poorly last week, but it was the only game it has had trouble moving the ball. Things will get back on track this week, and the contest in West Lafayette won’t even be close. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 21, Purdue 14 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 20, Purdue 7 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34, Purdue 20 
PURDUE OFFENSIVE PURDUE RUSHING PURDUE PASSING COACHING The Boilermakers have ac-Quarterbacks Caleb TerBush 
Danny Hope leads the Boiler-counted for nine rushing touch-and Robert Marve were a com-makers in his third season as 3. downs in three games this sea-bined 21-of-25 passing for 234 coach and is still looking for his son, and the running game has yards and a touchdown in a first victory over Notre Dame. anchored the offense. 59-0 blowout of Southeast Mis-
o-Head Hope and his assistants will Running backs Ralph Bolden souri State on Sept. 17, a week 
try to pressure Rees throughout and Akeem Shavers have com-before the team’s bye. the game and keep a dormant bined for 409 yards in those Purdue coach Danny Hope Irish offense from consistently contests, along with five touch-announced this week that the putting points on the board. downs. Boilermakers will once again 
Hope knows the best chance While Marve is immobile as employ a two-quarterback sys-the Boilermakers have to win is a quarterback, TerBush has the tem when Notre Dame travels to if they run the ball effectively ability to pick up key first downs Ross-Ade Stadium. 
Purdue Defense and pressure Rees. with his legs. His longest carry TerBush is listed as No. 1 on of the season is a 29-yarder. the depth chart, but Marve will 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME The Irish rushing defense is get considerable playing time. the backbone of the unit, hold-Justin Siller is the most dy­ing Michigan State to just 29 namic playmaker on the Boil­
21 Ricardo Allen        So. yards and explosive running ermaker offense, as the senior CB 15 Charlton Williams  Sr. back Ray Graham to 89 yards has snatched 14 passes in three in Notre Dame’s last two games, games for a total of 138 yards. 
32 Albert Evans Sr. 
FS respectively. Crosby Wright is a dangerous 
34 Max Charlot Jr. 
Manti Te’o has 41 tackles this playmaking threat at tight end, 
season to lead the Irish, 16 more as the junior has hauled in six 
than the next closest defender, receptions for 80 yards and a 
2 Gerald Gooden Sr. Harrison Smith. Three of Te’o’s touchdown this season. 
DE 49 Aaron Brockman Sr. 30 Joe Holland Sr. stops have come for a loss. Notre Dame’s pass rush was OLB 18 Nnamdi Ezenwa Jr. Purdue will need a strong strong and slowed down the start from its running game if it Pittsburgh aerial attack in the 
93 Kawaan Short Jr. 
is going to move the ball against 15-12 Irish win, and sustaining NG 55 Brandon Taylor So. 3 Dwayne Beckford  Jr. a talented Irish defense. If the pressure Saturday will be key to MLB 47 Chris Carlino     Sr. Boilermakers can force Notre a Notre Dame victory. 90 Bruce Gaston So. Dame to put eight men in the Robert Blanton led the Irish DT 61 Ryan Isaac So. box, TerBush and Marve will secondary in September and 
45 Will Lucas So. 
benefit from play-action passes needs his counterpart, Gary 
OLB 
39 Joe Gilliam So. 
and opportunities to get the ball Gray, to build on an improved 
99 Ryan Russell So. 
DE to their receivers in space. effort on the road last weekend. 
58 Robert Maci Jr. 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME EDGE: EVEN 
SS 
35 Logan Link Sr. 
44 Landon Feichter So. 
PURDUE SCHEDULE 

Sept. 3 Middle Tennessee St. 28 Josh Johnson Jr. (W, 27-24) CB 10 Mike Eargle Sr. Sept. 10 @ Rice (L, 24-22) 
PURDUE SPECIAL TEAMS 
Sept. 17 Southeast Missouri St. 

Carson Wiggs is 5-of-7 on field goal attempts during the 2011 
(W, 59-0) 

campaign, with misses of 31 and 38 yards and a long of 50 yards. 
Oct. 1 Notre Dame 

Cody Webster has locked down the punting position after bat-
Oct. 8 Minnesota 

tling with Wiggs for the starting slot. Webster is averaging 49.8 
Oct. 15 @ Penn State 

Purdue Offense 
yards per punt, with seven of 10 boots longer than 50 yards and five 
Oct. 22 Illinois 

that have been downed inside the 20-yard line. 
Oct. 29 at Michigan 

The Irish have not allowed their opponents to pick up strong field 
2 Justin Siller Sr. Nov. 5 @ Wisconsin 
position through the return game, and they will face mediocre re-
WR 3 Waynelle Gravesande Sr. Nov. 12 Ohio State 
turners this week. 
Nov. 19 Iowa Nov. 26 @ Indiana 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME 

82 Crosby Wright Jr. 
84 Justin Sinz So. 



TE Purdue Specialists 
51 Justin Kitchens So. 
RT   78 Trevor Foy So. 
37 Carson Wiggs Sr. 

PK
62 Nick Mondek Sr. 
RG 42 Cody Webster So. 
63 James Shepherd Sr. 
P 

76 Rick Schmeig Jr. 19 Caleb TerBush Jr. 
LS 
50 Jesse Schmitt So. 
C QB
59 Cody Davis So. 9 Robert Marve Sr. 
67 Peters Drey Jr. 
23 Ralph Bolden Jr. 
LG 56 Eric McDaniel So. RB 3 Waynelle Gravesande Sr. 
24 Akeem Shavers Jr. 
PR 
LT 
68 Dennis Kelly Sr. 
54 Jack De Boef So. 
4 O.J. Ross So. 

KR 
13 Antavian Edison Jr. 
WR 83 Kurt Lichtenberg Sr. 
37 Carson Wiggs Sr. 

4 O.J. Ross So. 
KO
WR 6 Gary Bush So. 
Andrew Owens 
Associate Sports Editor 

Is this the week Notre Dame fi­nally corrects its mistakes and plays to its potential? 
No. 
Right now, sophomore quarter­back Tommy Rees is way too skittish in the pocket and is not showing the accuracy and game-management skills that allowed him to finish 
4-0 as a starter last season and led Irish coach Brian Kelly to pull the plug on senior quar­terback Dayne Crist so early against South Florida. 
The defense will allow a couple big plays, but overall will suffocate the Purdue offense primarily because of its ability to make Ralph Bolden a non-factor. 
While Rees and the offense will struggle, it will not be enough to let an abysmal Boilermaker squad defeat the Irish under the lights. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27, Purdue 13 
Chris Masoud 

Assistant Managing Editor 

I’ll be honest, I usually just mark this one up as a W before the sea­son begins. Something about Pur­due and football just don’t mix like they do for basketball, and I don’t see Drew Brees walking out of the Boilermakers locker room. That said, Purdue… 
And I’m just going to stop there. 

Notre Dame should own this game from start to finish. Tommy Rees is the de facto starter because he has a knack for winning games. He’s had a total of seven starts to stop playing like a true fresh­man, and he’ll finally look a true passer when he uses the deep ball Saturday. Brian Kelly’s offense can only be vanilla for so long. The Irish begin a seven-game stretch of winnable games, and it starts with a state­ment win over Purdue. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34, Purdue 13 




Running game adds new dimension to Notre Dame offense 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
In 2010, Notre Dame’s of­fense was often one-dimen­sional, relying almost exclu­sively on the passing game for much of the season. This year, however, junior running back Cierre Wood and senior run­ning back Jonas Gray have provided a tandem ground attack that has completely erased any memories of a poor rushing offense last year. “A year ago, we were begging for 96 yards,” Irish running backs coach Tim Hinton said. “Both backs are doing a great job of seeing things and getting some acceleration. Right now we’re running with more force and power than a year ago. 
“I like the one-two punch and I want to continue to use it that way.” 
After biding his time be­hind Armando Allen and Robert Hughes on the depth chart, Wood has finally come into his own as the prima­ry back in the Irish offense. “It’s different for him. He’s never had to do it at the col­lege level,” Hinton said. “Sun­days he’s sore and tired. You take in the consideration of the academic load, you take in the mental preparation to get ready for a game, the physical drain on your body, and then to go out and practice, all of those things – there’s a lot that goes into college football. The bot­tom line is that he’s learning to do it better every day.” 
Wood attributes his success to an increased understand­ing of the tactical nature of the running game. 
“I got in the classroom with Coach Hinton learning the Xs and Os because that’s a vi­tal part when it comes to the game,” Wood said. “There’s a lot of football players who have speed and talent who can run and whatnot, but if you always give yourself that extra help, it just makes you a better player, so that’s what I did.” 
While Hinton agrees with Wood, he also believes his fea­ture back has a ways to go. 
“He’s a better student of the game,” Hinton said. “We’re not perfect there. We’ve certainly got a long way to go to get to the standards that I want him. 
“We want him to become an every-down back: an every-down protection back, and an every-down receiving back … He’s learning how to do that every-down back stuff.” 
As the featured back, Wood has changed the way he pre­pares during the week to care for his body and last a full sea­son — but that has not come easily to him. 
“Last year I really wasn’t a cold-plunge person but it really does work,” Wood said. “I still hate it to this day. When I get in I put a towel over my head and I just bite the towel until I can’t feel anything anymore. I’m going to hate it as long as they have a cold-plunge.” 
Wood’s most important attri­bute, however, may have been with him all along. 
“It takes great confidence to play this game — not cocki­ness, but confidence,” Hinton said. “I don’t know that Cierre’s ever lacked confidence.” 
Wood’s backfield stablemate, Jonas Gray, had a rocky start to the season when he fumbled just outside the end zone in Notre Dame’s season-opening loss to South Florida — and his fumble was returned for a touchdown that would set the Irish back early. While frustrated at the time, Hinton knew he had to give Gray an opportunity to redeem himself. 
“The one thing you tell ev­ery player right off the bat is that not one play’s ever going to win the game, not one play’s ever going to lose the game,” Hinton said. “We need him to go, so we had to put confidence back in him. Sometimes you’ve got to live with those mistakes. … It has happened to everyone, what you’ve got to do is over­come it. The next play is the most important play.” 
With a 79-yard touchdown run in last week’s 15-12 vic­tory over Pittsburgh, Gray overcame his mistake with a crucial score. The touch­down scamper allowed Gray to display a speed belied by his power-back mentality. “He was juiced up to make it happen,” Hinton said. “He made it happen. He’s kind of struggled on making one miss, and he did a great job this time on making one miss.” 
While Wood and Gray have seen a significant amount of action, freshmen George At­kinson and Cam McDaniel have not seen the field, though not for lack of ability. 


“The thing at Notre Dame is that you play a lot of good peo­ple early. The games have all been tight,” Hinton said. “As a coach, you know the mistakes freshmen normally make ear­ly, and you just don’t want to accept those in games as tight as ours. They both would do an outstanding job if asked to go in a game.” 
As the Irish enter the meat of their schedule, Hinton ex­pects opponents will begin to focus on Wood and Gray. “The more they have success, the more they have a bulls­eye on their chest, and the more they’ve got to raise their game,” Hinton said. 
However, Hinton said he be­lieves his focus on the funda­mentals will allow his backs to overcome any increased atten­tion. 
“You’ve got to go out ev­ery day and work on the little things that take you through game 12 and hopefully into game 13 and the things that you want to accomplish,” he said. “We’re every day trying to work on the fundamental things that will make us better. … If we do those things, the runs will take care of them­selves.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


Boilermakers use bye to prepare for ‘Super Bowl’ 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Editor-in-Chief 
Two weeks separated from a 59-0 drubbing of Southeast Missouri State, Purdue has had plenty of time to let its momen­tum prepare for Notre Dame. 
The Boilermakers (2-1) used the first week of their two-week window for some old-fashioned rest and relaxation. 
“The bye week went very well for us,” Boilermakers coach Danny Hope said Tues­day. “I think we got done what we wanted to get done. We wanted to get some rest first. After the Southeast Missouri game, [the team] had Sunday afternoon off, all of Monday, all of Tuesday, all of Wednes­day. That gave them a chance to heal up a little bit, freshen up a little bit.” 
When the players returned to the practice field, Hope had a Notre Dame-specific game plan waiting for them. 
“It gave us a chance to put together a game plan and take it on the practice field and test it some, over and over again,” he said. “It should help us out come Saturday.” 
Purdue worked through all aspects of that game plan last Thursday, Friday and Satur­day. Immediately after Satur­day’s practice, the Boilermak­ers watched the team they were preparing for. 
“We practiced early [Sat­urday] and got out of practice in time to watch a lot of the Notre Dame [against Pitts­burgh] game,” Hope said Sun­day. “They practiced for Notre Dame, and then got to watch Notre Dame. I like how it all worked out, a good plan.” 
Looking at the Irish, Hope said he knows his defense fac­es a stiff challenge. 
“They have great players,” he said. “That’s the real chal­lenge for our defense, we have to spread out and match up … They are exceptionally talent­ed on offense.” 
To open the season, Purdue squeaked by Middle Tennessee 27-24, and then lost to Rice a week later 24-22. Both teams run a spread offense similar to Notre Dame’s, and Hope’s de­fense had trouble coping with the inherent speed component. 
“We’ve had some time to look at what we were doing and what we’ve done, and ar­eas of our defense that we feel like we need to strengthen,” he said. “I feel like we are a lot more settled with our defen­sive package now, the fronts, the coverages, the pressures we’ll call. 
“We’ve improved from the Rice game to the Southeast Missouri State game, and I think we showed a lot of im­provement in practice from the Southeast Missouri game heading into the Notre Dame game.” 
While the defense struggles to handle a spread offense, Hope enjoys relative constan­cy on the offensive side of the ball. Quarterbacks Caleb Ter-Bush and Robert Marve split the time under the center, with Hope insisting TerBush is the number one quarterback. Even though he relies on a du­al-quarterback system, Hope feels more comfortable with his signal caller(s) than he has recently. 
“Last year and the begin­ning of this season we had five or six starting quarterbacks in about 14 games, so to have some continuity at the quar-terback position is very good for our football team,” Hope said. “We don’t have to make a switch. We have two quarter­backs who are ready to go and to help our team.” 


With the Boilermaker de­fense preparing for the Tom­my Rees-led spread offense, and Terbush/Marve ready to lead an offensive attack, Irish coach Brian Kelly knows Notre Dame cannot afford to play as poorly as it did in its 15-12 vic­tory over Pittsburgh. 
“This is their Super Bowl,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “This is the biggest game on their schedule by far.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 





