
Monday, November 14, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Notre Dame 45, Maryland 21 
Shamrock smackdown 
Ground game, fast-paced offense power Irish to 45-21 victory over Maryland 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Senior Sports Writer 
LANDOVER, Md. — Irish coach Brian Kelly said Notre Dame’s focus throughout the week leading up to its Shamrock Series game against Maryland was to pick up the tempo and to start fast. 
The Irish did just that, scoring on their first possession of the game and three other times in the first half on their way to a 45-21 win over the Terrapins on Saturday. 
“We asked our team to get off to a fast start,” Kelly said. “We did that. I thought that was im­portant for us to come here and really make a statement early on. I thought we did that — put some points on the board. So when we look at it, [it was] a very good victory for our football team, and I liked their prepara­tion. I had mentioned to many of you around us that I liked our preparation during the week and that paid off today.” 
Senior running back Jonas Gray topped the 100-yard mark on the ground for the first time in his career, carrying the ball 21 times for 136 yards and two touchdowns, including the first score of the game on Notre Dame’s first drive. Kelly said Gray’s performance has come to be expected at this point in the season. 

“Jonas Gray was what we have all been talking about,” he said. “He’s been a consistent perform­er for us, and he’s really emerged fast as they want to, just things long 52-yard field goal, sopho-38 pass attempts and threw for 38-7. Notre Dame has now out-as a big-time back. That’s why like that, and [Kelly] is doing a more quarterback Tommy Rees two touchdowns, said the in-scored its opponents 77-13 in the we went with two backs in the great job of dialing plays up.” connected with senior receiver creased tempo kept Maryland third quarter this season. backfield for the first time this The Irish defense also put Michael Floyd to give the Irish a on their heels and was the key to “I think our guys settle into year; we played both Jonas points on the board when soph-17-0 lead. Notre Dame’s offensive success. the game,” Kelly said when and [sophomore running back] omore cornerback Lo Wood The Terrapins answered on “We wanted to go with a hur-asked about the halftime adjust-Cierre [Wood] i n te r c e p te d the very next drive when O’Brien ry-up with the tempo a little ments he makes. “They’re tuned b e ca u se M ar y l an d completed a 13-yard pass to se-bit, and it worked out,” he said. in. We can talk to them and they they’ve been s oph o m o r e nior wide receiver Quentin Mc-“I think we caught them when know exactly what we want to so productive q u a r t er -Cree for a touchdown. McCree they weren’t lined up a little bit do in the third quarter and they 
“It was a big emphasis 

for us.” back Danny led Maryland with five catches and we could tell throughout go out and do it. Again, our guys 
Wood came this week to play at O’Brien’s pass for 76 yards and the score. the game, the guys were getting understand how important it is up just short a fast tempo and we in the third Not to be outdone, the Irish tired and I think that has a lot to get some adjustments made of rushing for did that well.” quarter and took the kickoff and drove 70 to do with how we pushed our at halftime. There’s good com­100 yards as returned it 57 yards on 13 plays to take a 24-7 tempo.” munication, and our guys go out well, gaining yards for the lead going into halftime. Gray Maryland coach Randy Ed-and execute.” 
Jonas Gray 

99 yards on score. once again finished the drive for sall said that, while there Notre Dame is now 5-0 in the 
Irish running back 

the ground “ [ S e n i o r Notre Dame, powering through were bright spots for his month of November under Kelly. against the safety] Jamo-the line on fourth-and-one from team, it suffered from too The Irish will try to continue Terrapins. He ris [Slaughter] the one-yard line with just 29 many mistakes throughout that streak Saturday when they took one of did a great job seconds left in the half. the game, as it has all season. take on Boston College in their his 18 carries into the end zone, of closing on that screen and had “We felt like it was about — “Notre Dame has an outstand-last home game of the season. scoring from three yards out read that screen out and forced it was less than a foot,” Kelly ing football team,” he said. “I think for us the process is with just under nine minutes to a high throw, and Lo was in a said of the decision to go for “They had something to do with what we do during the week go in the third quarter. good position,” Kelly said. “It the touchdown on fourth-and-those missed tackles, and offen-because we’re not at the point 
“We knew we would be able was good to get Lo in the game one. “Even if we weren’t a very sively we couldn’t get a whole lot where it’s habit, that we do it to run the ball so we started — he’s going to have to play for good running team I was going going and, same thing, dropped the right way all the time,” Kelly with a physical mentality and us next year so it was nice to see to probably go for it no matter passes. That didn’t help with the said. “We’re making good prog­continued that throughout the him get a pick six.” what. But we’ve been running continuity of what we needed to ress there. We really can’t fly game.” Gray said. “It was a big Gray put the Irish on the the ball physically and con-get done.” at 35,000 feet, so to speak. We emphasis this week to play at a board first, capping off an eight-trolling the line of scrimmage The Irish scored twice more have to really focus on the day-fast tempo and we did that well. lay, 67-yard drive by barreling against most teams, so we felt in the third quarter — Cierre to-day.” When we do that, we’re a pretty his way into the end zone from that was not a difficult call at Wood’s three-yard touchdown good offense that’s hard to stop. one yard out. After senior kicker the time.” and Lo Wood’s interception re-Contact Eric Prister at [The defense] can’t line up as David Ruffer added a career-Rees, who completed 30 of his turn — to extend their lead to eprister@nd.edu 

player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Jonas Gray Notre Dame running back Gray rushed for two touchdowns and tallied a career-high 136 yards on 21 carries, powering the Irish rushing attack to a big night.  49 first-half plays The Irish ran 49 plays in the first half, showing off a higher-tempo offense that helped Notre Dame open up a 24-7 halftime lead.  Receiver Michael Floyd’s 19-yard second-quarter touchdown catch Floyd’s athletic catch midway through the second quarter gave the Irish a 17-0 lead, leaving no doubt about who would win.  “I thought that was important to come here and really make a statement early on. I thought we did that.” Brian Kelly Irish coach  

page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 14, 2011 
report card 



A­A A­B B B+ A-
quarterbacks: Tommy Rees missed a couple of throws, but overall he played a very solid game. There’s no arguing with 296 yards, two touchdowns and most importantly, no turnovers. 
running backs: Jonas Gray and Cierre Wood were an absolute nightmare for the Terrapin defense, as Gray ran for 136 and Wood for 99. The backs are playing their best football right now. 
receivers: Robby Toma played superbly in place of the injured Theo Riddick, and Michael Floyd had another great game. Tyler Eifert continues to be a very good tight end. 
offensive line: While rolling up 212 yards on the ground is an accomplish­ment for any offensive line, the Terrapins recorded 10 tackles for loss, including three sacks. 
defensive line: Aaron Lynch had five tackles, and Louis Nix was active at nose guard all game long, but the de­fensive line didn’t create much pres­sure or stop the run particularly well. 
linebackers: Danny Spond, Troy Niklas and Kendall Moore saw some much-needed playing time late in the game and generally played well. Spond did get run over on Maryland’s late score. 
defensive backs: Maryland had some success throwing the ball downfield, averaging nearly 11 yards per comple­
tion, but Lo Wood’s interception return for touchdown was a great moment.  
A- special teams: David Ruffer and Ben Turk turned in two of their best perfor­mances of the season, highlighted by Ruffer’s 52-yard field goal. The punt-return ineptitude continues.  
A- coaching: The decision to play at a faster tempo paid off, and Brian Kelly’s willingness to stick with the running game is paying big dividends. The third-quarter domination is impressive.  
overall: It wasn’t perfect, but it was  

a very good effort against a vastly inferior opponent. It’s good to see 
3.52 
the Irish beat up on a far-worse team, but it doesn’t tell us much. 

adding up the numbers 
During his tenure at Notre Dame, Bri­

an Kelly has won all five games played
in November. 

5 
5 
The Irish racked up 508 yards of offense


Saturday, the fifth time Notre Dame has 
surpassed 500 yards this season. 
The Irish have triumphed in 32 of thelast 33 times they have outrushedtheir opponent. 
32 
3 
The Irish have given up just three rush­ing touchdowns to opposing running 
backs this year. 
Senior running back Jonas Gray scored a touchdown for the seventh straight game. 

7 
6 
With 31 career touchdown passes,Tommy Rees is tied with Joe Theis­
mann for sixth in school history. 




This was just one game — nothing more 
LANDOVER, MD. — Let the re­cord show on Nov. 12, 2011, Notre Dame defeated Maryland by a score of 45-21 at FedEx Field, home of the Washington Redskins of the Nation­al Football League. 
Let the record show Notre Dame should have won that game, just as it did. 

Let the re­cord show the Douglas Farmer Irish fulfilled expectations Editor-in-Chief in their Wash­ington, D.C., experience. 
And let the record show noth­ing more than that. 
This was not more than one game. This was not a trendsetter. This was not a beginning. 
“It was just today,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said in his postgame press conference. “We’ll see what happens on the 19th of Novem­ber.” 
For 15 years, Notre Dame fans have waited for the Irish to routinely demolish lesser foes. Such has happened twice this year — Saturday’s win and the 38-10 shellacking at Purdue. Both games were nowhere near as close as their scores reflect. Notre Dame’s second-team de­fense gave up one touchdown to the Boilermakers and two to the Terrapins. 
But Notre Dame has also twice limped to victory over far inferior teams this year, against Pitts­burgh and Wake Forest, win­ning by a combined total of 10 points. Neither the Panthers nor the Demon Deacons should have been able to hang with the Irish for more than a quarter, yet both games came down to the closing minutes. 
And let’s not even discuss the embarrassment of handing a vic­tory to an over-matched team in your season-opener. Oh yes, that happened. 
As Kelly alluded, the home finale against Boston College is another chance of this nature: Run a lesser team off the field, or slouch to the Eagles’ level and hope for the best. More of the former is necessary before Notre Dame fans can breathe easily. More complete performances — from the rushing game to the passing defense to clean special teams play — are necessary be­fore any game can be approached with comfort. 
“Our players truly understand how to win football games now, and it starts with our prepara­tion during the week,” Kelly said. “They know that they have to be able to bring all three phases. We’ll look to repeat that next week, and that’s the challenge to our football team.” 
If the Irish rise to that chal­lenge, repeating a dominating performance one week later, then perhaps it will be time to trust in the talent on the field. Notre Dame is more talented than the vast majority of teams in the country, and certainly more talented than most teams it plays (though not Stanford). But that talent has been overshadowed by clumsiness and apathy for nearly 15 years. 
That talent needs to shine against teams like Maryland more often. Unfortunately, having shined against Maryland is not enough. That was just one day, one game. 
Then again, that was senior running back Jonas Gray’s first career 100-yard game. Junior receiver Robby Toma set career highs in both receptions and yards. Sophomore cornerback Lo Wood even found the end zone. 
The special teams unit made no mistakes, even pinning the Ter­rapins deep in their own territory on one punt. Irish sophomore quarterback Tommy Rees did not make as many knuckle-whitening throws as he usually does. The Irish defense continued its third quarter dominance, holding the ninth of its 10 opponents score­less in the 15 minutes following halftime. 
Are these isolated performanc­es, or the beginnings of trends? 
Are these encouraging signs, or the fruit Kelly can finally reap? 
Are these the product of a terrible Maryland team, or an it­has-actually-arrived Notre Dame team? 
We’ll see what happens on the 19th of November. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Monday, November 14, 2011 The Observer u IRISH INSIDER ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


Toma steps up in Riddick’s absence 

By CHRIS MASOUD 
Assistant Managing Editor 
LANDOVER, Md. — One man goes down, the next man comes in. 
For a Notre Dame squad plagued by injury this season, Irish coach Brian Kelly’s philosophy of replac­ing injured athletes with capable replacements has been embraced successfully at sev­eral positions. Ju­nior Robby Toma’s first half. The receiver contributed a 26-yard catch to keep Notre Dame’s first drive alive, eventually leading to the first of five offensive touchdowns in the game. 

“Last year I was put in a similar situation when Theo also went down, so I was ready for this. Football’s a game I love, and I prepare for it, so it felt like a normal game for me,” Toma 
said. 
“Ob viously 
keeping in mind 

career-high seven that one of my 
“He’s been waiting 

catch, 73-yard per-best friends, Theo, 
for hs chance, his 

formance Saturday went down, but 
opportunity, and he’s a 
as a starter in place just to get out 
classic case of our ‘next 
of injured wide re-there and play felt ceiver Theo Riddick man in’ [philosophy].” really good.” was just another Toma credits chapter of the same Brian Kelly the talented cast book. of fellow Irish re-
Notre Dame coach 
“He’s been wait­ing for his chance, his opportunity, and he’s a classic case of our ‘next man in’ [philosophy],” Kelly said. 
Toma is no stranger to the starting lineup, moving up to the first team against Army and USC last season following injuries to Riddick and sophomore receiver TJ Jones. When Riddick was unable to recover from a hamstring injury in time for Satur­day’s contest, Toma said Kelly noti­fied him just moments before kickoff. 
“Coach [Kelly] came up to me and asked me if I was in, and I didn’t know, so I looked up at the board, and I told him I was in,” he said. 
Featuring soft hands and uncom­mon acceleration, the 5-foot-9-inch Toma ignited an Irish offense in the ceivers for draw­
ing the Terrapin 

defense’s attention away from him, allowing Toma to find open space and create an easy target for sophomore quarterback Tommy Rees. 
“[Toma] played great,” Rees said. “He’s a special player, and he’s got a knack out there on the field. It’s good to have him back out there. We can’t wait to get Theo back and get all those playmakers out there together.” 
The Laie, Hawaii, native, who maintains a close relationship with junior linebacker Manti Te’o, com­mitted to Notre Dame after the two led Punahou School to its first state football championship in 2008. Toma said both players take a similar ap­proach to the game rooted in their high school playing days. 
“Growing up, football is a game that our parents and our friends and people we look up to play,” he said. “It really isn’t a game where we’re from, it’s a lifestyle, and we just love play­ing football.” 
While Te’o became one of the na­tion’s most heralded recruits, Toma’s commitment to Notre Dame under former coach Charlie Weis went largely unnoticed. Despite less atten­tion and less playing time than Te’o thus far into their careers, Toma’s determination and disciplined ap­proached carried him through a dif­ficult period. 
“It was tough. Everybody had their two cents,” he said. “They thought my recruiting was this, or they thought it was that. I just never paid attention to it because I felt Coach Weis recruited me because he felt I could play. Now, I feel like I’m showing everybody that I was recruited to come here.” 
While Riddick’s status remains questionable for Notre Dame’s next contest against Boston College, mov­ing forward Kelly said the coaching staff faces the additional challenge of incorporating both slot receivers into the Irish attack. 
“Well, I think Robby is somebody we’ve always had high regard for,” he said. “We’ve tried to get him in the games, and I think we’ve managed to get him in early in games. It’s in­cumbent on us now to continue that rotation with Robby and Theo when Theo’s back.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 




Notre Dame returns to top-25 polls 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Editor-in-Chief 
LANDOVER, Md. — Notre Dame jumped into the polls for the first time since the preseason Sunday. The cur­rent three-game winning streak land­ed the Irish as No. 24 in the AP Top 25, and No. 25 in the USA Today Coaches poll. 
“I think when you get ranked you’re playing better obviously,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said Sunday. “We started 0-and-2, and to be ranked this late in the season means we’ve played better football since that 0-and-2 start.” 
Four Notre Dame opponents finish higher than the Irish in the AP poll: No. 8 Stanford, No. 12 Michigan State, No. 18 USC and No. 20 Michigan. 

What’s a sack? 
For the first time in nearly five complete games, Notre Dame gave up a sack Saturday, and then it gave up two more. Irish sophomore quar­terback Tommy Rees was last sacked against Pittsburgh, a span of 195 pass attempts between the losses of yards. 
“It was just a matter of time,” Kelly said. “When you’re throwing the foot­ball as much as we do at times, and they’re a pretty good front.” 
Rees, meet Theismann 
Legendary Notre Dame quarter­back Joe Theismann spoke at a pep rally on the National Mall on Friday night, receiving cheers from Redskins fans who remember his NFL days. 
Come Saturday, Theismann’s name became relevant again, when Rees tied his mark of 31 career touchdown passes, good for sixth in Irish history. 
At his current rate, Rees would rank one notch above Theismann in career winning percentage. The sta­tistic necessitates a minimum of 20 starts, and Rees only has 13, but his .846 winning percentage would rank fifth among Notre Dame quarter­backs, just beating Theismann’s .840. John Lujack leads the rankings with a record of 20-1-1, good for .932. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 




scoring summary 
 1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
ND   10  14  14   7  45  
MD  0  7  0  14  21  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Maryland 0 
Jonas Gray 1-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with 11:25remainingDrive: 8 plays, 67 yards, 2:33 elapsed 
Notre Dame 10, Maryland 0 
David Ruffer 52-yd field goal with 2:47 remaining
Drive: 11 plays, 57 yards, 2:39 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 17, Maryland 0 
Michael Floyd 19-yd pass from Tommy Rees (DavidRuffer kick) with 8:29 remainingDrive: 7 plays, 80 yards, 2:31 elapsed 
Notre Dame 17, Maryland 7 
Quintin McCree 13-yd pass from Danny O’Brien (Nick Ferrara kick) with 5:18 remaining

Drive: 9 plays, 61 yards, 3:04 elapsed 
Notre Dame 24, Maryland 7 
Jonas Gray 1-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with 0:29remaining

Drive: 13 plays, 70 yards, 4:43 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 31, Maryland 7 

Cierre Wood 3-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with 8:48 
remaining

Drive: 14 plays, 84 yards, 6:06 remaining 
Notre Dame 38, Maryland 7 
Lo Wood 57-yd interception return (David Rufferkick) with 7:18 remaining 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 38, Maryland 14 

C.J. Brown 24-yd run (Nick Ferrara kick) with 14:02 
remaining

Drive: 14 plays, 84 yards, 6:06 remaining 
Notre Dame 45, Maryland 14 

Tyler Eifert 34-yd pass from Tommy Rees (David 
Ruffer kick) with 5:31 remainingDrive: 7 plays, 77 yards, 3:23 remaining 
Notre Dame 45, Maryland 21 
D.J. Adams 2-yd run (Nick Ferrara kick) with 0:37remaining

Drive: 13 plays, 67 yards, 4:47 elapsed 



statistics 
rushing yards 


passing yards 


time of possession passing 


Rees             30-38-296  O’Brien  14-21-132 
rushing 

Gray                    21-136  Adams         16-55 
receiving 

Floyd                       9-90  McCree   5-76 
page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 14, 2011 



An easy victory 
Despite playing just 12 miles from Maryland’s campus, Notre Dame took the field for its off-site, ‘Shamrock Series’ home game to raucous cheers and never looked back. The Irish started fast, jumping out to a 17-0 lead midway through the second quarter. Senior running back Jonas Gray and junior running back Cierre Wood combined for 235 rushing yards on the night, and junior quarterback Tommy Rees added 296 passing yards in another 500-yard performance for the Irish offense. The 45-21 victory improved Notre Dame’s record to 7-3 on the season and put the Irish back in the top 25 of the AP and USA Today coaches’ polls. 
MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer 



MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer MATT SAAD/The Observer 

Clockwise from top: Irish running back Cierre Wood stiffarms a Maryland defender; receiver TJ Jones goes airborne with the ball; receiver Michael Floyd runs downfield after catching a pass; tight end Tyler Eifert heads for the end zone; Wood runs through open space. 


