the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Ward and McCormick to face off 
Initial election results leave two tickets remaining for the runoff; debate planned for tonight 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
After a campaign violation delayed the results for a day, the Election Committee of the Judicial Council announced the Pat McCormick-Brett Rocheleau and James Ward-Heather Eaton tickets will pro­ceed to a runoff election for the offices of student body president and vice president. 
A runoff debate featuring the McCormick-Rocheleau and Ward-Eaton tickets will take place tonight at 10 p.m. in the Main Lobby of LaFortune Student Center. The runoff election will be held Thursday from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
To win the initial election, a ticket must win a majority of the votes cast, Michael Thomas, Judicial Council Vice President of Elections, said. No ticket received more than 50 percent of the vote in the election. 
The council received 4,036 votes in total, which is slightly lower than the 4,177 votes cast in last year’s election. 
LAUREN KALINOSKI/The Observer




Freshman founds website 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
A Notre Dame freshman recent­ly founded a news and opinion website that publishes content daily from universities across the country. 
NextGen Journal, the site that is geared toward college students, launched last week. 
Freshman Connor Toohill man­ages the site and currently serves as editor-in-chief. Toohill said he was inspired to start the news site for college students in 2009 when the national budget debate sparked interest in many of his classmates at his high school. 
“There were a lot of things being talked about that had a lot of impact on the next generation,” Toohill said, “but our voices were never really in the conversation.” 
Toohill said he wanted to create a forum for the opinions of the younger generation. 
NextGen Journal currently staffs over 50 college students from uni­versities around the country, 
see WEBSITE/page 3 



Movie to be filmed on ND’s campus 

Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame gave approval for the filming of a motion picture on campus beginning this year, according to a Tuesday press release. 
The film, which will be the third to be filmed on campus in Notre Dame’s history, is about Haley Scott DeMaria, a Notre Dame swimmer who was paralyzed for a week after a 1992 bus accident that killed two of her team­mates, the press release stat­ed. 
“Though we receive many 
see MOVIE/page 4 


Newsweek:SouthBenda‘dyingcity’ 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 

The city of South Bend is suffering an identity crisis. 
On Jan. 21, Newsweek named South Bend as eighth on its list of “Dying Cities.” However, the National Civic League also recently recog­nized South Bend as an “All-American City.” 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said Newsweek’s ranking system, based on negative popula­tion shifts, is misleading. 
“We think South Bend and other cities that were sin­gled out by Newsweek have been mischaracterized with a negative label that is based on a narrow, random, flawed methodology, ” he said. “We think it’s wrong.” 
Don Bishop, associate vice president of Undergraduate Enrollment, said he felt the magazine’s ranking failed to grasp the true characteris­tics of what makes a city 
see CITY/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Council discusses sexual assault page 3 Football looks ahead to spring practice page 16  Justin Bieber’s ‘Never Say Never’page 9  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 16, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT’S ON YOUR NOTRE DAME BUCK T LIST?

THE OBSERVER 









P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 

NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 

SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Megan Doyle Allan Joseph John Cameron Sam Gans Carly Landon Megan Golden 
Graphics Scene 
Lauren Kalinoski Adriana Pratt 
Photo Viewpoint 
Ashley Dacy Ren Brauweiler 
OFFBEAT 

Girl with 12 fingers, 14 toes reaches for a record 
YANGON, Myanmar — From almost the moment Le Yati Min was born, her mother knew the girl had a little something extra. 
“I asked the nurses whether my kid was born complete with hands and legs,” says her mother. “They replied that the baby even has more than she needs.” 
Born with 12 fingers and 14 toes, Le may be the most “digitally enhanced” person in the world. Now, the 16-month-old girl’s family in impoverished Myanmar is seeking a Guinness World Record to prove it. 
A neighbor is helping her 
Andrew Lamb  Ben German  Brian Vogt  David Ellett  Dominic Robertazzi  Duncan Smith  
junior  junior  freshman  sophomore  grad student  sophomore  
Dillon  Dillon  Dillon  Keough  Off-Campus  Dillon  

“The Hesburgh “Climbing “Chop down one “Win a football “The Hesburgh “Creating a challenge.” Stepan Center.” of the old oak national challenge.” music scene on trees.” championship.” campus.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

mother apply to claim the record hearing that a boy from India currently hold bragging rights for the most digits, with 12 fingers and 13 toes. 
Polydactylism — being born with an extra finger or toe — is fairly unusual, but it is even more rare for someone to have spare functional digits on both hands and feet, as Le does. 
Cameron finds new ally: Tabby cat to battle rats 
LONDON — Prime Minister David Cameron turned to a new recruit Tuesday to help fend off his foes — an ally armed with whiskers, claws and sharp teeth. 
Larry, a four-year-old tabby cat, arrived at his new home at 10 Downing Street, tasked with warding off a pack of rats seen scut­tling close to the British leader’s official residence. 
The former stray, adopt­ed from London’s Battersea Dogs and Cats Home, is the latest pet to be appointed Chief Mouser to the Cabinet Office, an unofficial pest control post. 
Television cameras had captured several sightings of rats around Downing Street — a common prob­lem in London, where the trash on sidewalks pro­vides a constant supply of food. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
A lecture on “Sustainability: A Marketing Emphasis” will be presented by Patrick Murphy today at 12:30 p.m. in the Giovanini Commons of the Mendoza College of Business. The lecture is part of Ethics Week 2011, and it is free to the Notre Dame community. 
The colloquium “Challenges in Statistical Analysis of Complex / High Dimensional Data” will take place today at 4 p.m. in 129 Hayes-Healy Center. Wenjiang Fu is a pro­fessor from Michigan State University’s Biostatistics Department and will host the event. 
Geoff Eley will give a lecture on “The Past Under Erasure: History, Memory and the Contemporary” today at 5 
p.m. in the Geddes Auditorium. The event is free and a reception held by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies will follow. 
Kelcey Parker will be read­ing from her short story collec­tion “For Sale By Owner” at the University of Notre Dame’s Hammes Bookstore on today at 7:30 p.m. The reading is free and open to the public. 
“Proof,” a play by David Auburn, will be presented tomorrow night at DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 
7:30 p.m. Tickets are $15 for regular admission, $12 for sen­iors, and $10 for students/youth. This cerebral mystery approaches issues such as what the link may be between genius and madness and whether either or both can be inherited. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to an editing error, a Feb. 14 article, “Students plunge into lakes,” misidentified the residence hall for which Professor Ann-Marie Conrado is a fellow. Conrado is Badin Hall’s fellow. The Observer regrets 


48 42 HIGH 5646 3340 
this error. 


42 36 LOW 4427 3029 







Wednesday, February 16, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 



Council discusses sexual assault 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
At this week’s Council of Representatives (COR) meeting, members were given a presen­tation on the Committee for Sexual Assault Prevention’s (CSAP) online site as well as the upcoming Sexual Assault Awareness Week. 
Senior Mariah McGrogan, co-chair of the gender issues com­mittee and a CSAP member, said the site offers a collection of resources for survivors look­ing for the next step in dealing with the assault. 
“As a part of student govern­ment’s Sexual Assault Awareness Week, we’re trying to raise awareness of the CSAP website, which is the most cen­tralized location for all the information you would possibly need about sexual assault,” McGrogan said. “There’s a page for victims and survivors who’ve been sexually assaulted and it walks you through the process of reporting a sexual assault.” 
McGrogan said the site high­lights the different ways victims can report a sexual assault. 
“There are also two ways that you can report a crime when you decide to go forward for disciplinary punishment of the attacker. The first is through University proceedings, which would be a ResLife trial,” she said. “The second would be an off-campus pursuit of discipli­nary action which would be through the prosecutor’s office as well as the police depart­ment.” 
McGrogan also described the events planned for student gov­ernment’s Sexual Awareness Week, starting next Monday. 

“On Tuesday, there will be a dinner in LaFortune from 6-8 p.m., free and open to the pub­
lic. It includes a bunch of speak­ers who will be talking about sexual assault and how sexual assault affects members of our community,” she said. “It’s not just for survivors of sexual assault or people who know survivors, but it’s for the entire community to show that this is really something Notre Dame cares about.” 
McGrogan said there would be information tables set up during the week in LaFortune, the dining halls and the Joyce Center staffed by student gov­ernment, CSAP, Men Against Violence, Feminist Voice and the Gender Relations Council. 

Outside of informational pro­gramming, she said there would be religious and social events later in the week. 
“On Wednesday, there’s a mass of healing that will take place in Dillon Hall,” she said. “On Friday, there is a “You’re Not Alone” reception. ... it is going to be an outlet that stu­dent clubs, organizations, departments and offices on campus can get involved with sexual assault by making a quilt square for a quilt that will be hung up on campus ... just to show that Notre Dame won’t stand for sexual violence on this campus.” 

Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 



RHA brings home top program award 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s Residence Hall Association (RHA) faced nine other RHAs from Indiana universi­ties and colleges and brought home eight awards from the Indiana Residence Hall Organization Conference (IRHOC), which was held at Purdue University from Feb. 4 to 6. 
The awards for the College included Best Display, Best Roll Call and Top Program. The group’s winning program was entitled “Don’t Talk Your Diet to Me.” Senior and RHA president Marianne Jones presented the program alongside fellow senior and RHA member Jessie Robbins. 
Individual awards went to Jones and Katherine Nelson for Four Year Service Pins, Holy Cross Hall director Christine Mihalopoulos for Advisor of the Year, and Robbins received an Outstanding Service Award. 
“We went with high energy and it all paid off in the end,” Robbins said. “I’m really proud of the group we brought to IRHOC, and was proud of all the ideas other schools liked about Saint Mary’s. “ 
The Saint Mary’s group at the conference included five members of RHA, two resident advisors and the president of the College’s Straight and Gay Alliance (SAGA). 
In order for the group to be nominated for individual awards, Laura Glaub, senior and National Communications Coordinator for RHA, said she put together bids for each nominee. 
“I nominated Marianne Jones for Student of the Year, Jessica Robbins [for the] outstanding serv­ice award and Christine Mihalopoulos for Advisor of the Year by writing a 10 to 20 page bid with a theme that defined them,” Glaub said. “The 10 to 20 bid included what they have done during their time at Saint Mary’s, a letter from me why I think they 



Website 
continued from page 1 
Toohill said. Students from univer­sities such as Stanford, Georgetown, and Harvard, in addi­tion to Notre Dame students, con­tribute pieces that submitted to a core group of editors. 
Freshman Brendan Moran is one of a core group of editors for the journal. 
“We went through about 75 col­lege newspapers, picked out their best writers, and asked them to join our staff,” Moran said. 
According to Moran, this diversi­ty gives NextGen Journal an edge over a single-campus publication. 
“We have that national focus,” Moran said, “not just only focusing on Notre Dame students and Notre Dame writers but branching out and trying to hear what’s going on and how people in other parts of the country interpret and perceive this content that is very pertinent to college students.” 
NextGen Journal publishes arti­cles covering topics from interna­tional and domestic politics to music, sports and celebrities. 
“There’s a void out there in the national media lately for analysis and insightful content for college students,” Toohill said. “There is nothing for our generation other than the specific campus by cam­pus content of college papers. So deserve it and then other exam­ples of what they have done to make our RHA improve.” 
According to members of the group, Glaub led the group to its success during the weekend. 
“The biggest reason SMC was so successful this year at IRHOC was because of Laura Glaub,” Jones said. “She spent countless hours preparing us with matching shirts for spirit, getting all of the supplies for the banner and display and writing five 15 page bids. She was a true inspiration and deserves recognition.” 
The whole group put forth a col­lective effort for the event by meeting two hours every week for the month leading up to competi­tion. 
“We went with high energy and it all paid off in the end,” Robbins said. “I’m really proud of the group we brought to IRHOC, and was proud of all the ideas other schools liked about Saint Mary’s. “ 
Mihalopoulos, who works as a supervisor for resident advisors on campus, said the opportunity to work closely with RHA in prepara­tion for IRHOC helps inspire improvement throughout the cam­pus. 
“I love working with the extraordinary students in RHA,” Mihalopoulos said. “It is important to me that they continue to grow as student leaders on campus, and because of this, I try to provide as much guidance and support to these students to ensure they are successful in their positions.” Not only did Saint Mary’s RHA present its ideas to other students, but the weekend was also a chance for them to learn new things from other universities and colleges at the conference, Jones said. 
“Attending these conferences allows RHA to bring back ideas for improving [Saint Mary’s,]” Jones said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
we’re trying to do something national with it.” 
Creating and developing the site was a long process for Toohill. He spent months laying the ground­work for the launch by contacting possible staff and finalizing the objectives and format of NextGen Journal. 
Toohill said much of the success of the recent launch to technical director and freshman Chas Jhin, who designed the website’s layout. 
Now that NextGen Journal has officially launched, Toohill and Moran said they are concentrating on publicizing and growing their venture. 
“We definitely want to expand as much as we can and focus on expanding it nationally and getting as many people aware of it as pos­sible nationwide,” Moran said. 
Toohill said he shares this aspi­ration. 
“We want to become the fore­most site for news and opinion by students for students,” he said. 
Toohill said students interested in contributing to NextGen Journal can visit the nextgenjournal.com and click on the “Join NextGen” page. 
“More than anything, [NextGen Journal] is interesting to the read­er,” Toohill said. “There’s a lot of really great, interesting, cool, prac­tical content.” 


Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 16, 2011 
and it is based on DeMaria’s Hospital and several days ing to the press release. Waterhouse wrote the script 
b o o k , “ W h a t T h o u g h t h e without sensation in her legs, DeMaria returned to class-and is also the director. 


Movie 
continued from page 1 
requests, the University has allowed just two movies to be filmed on our campus, — ‘Knute Rockne, All American’ and ‘Rudy, ’” University President Fr. John Jenkins said in the press release. “The perseverance, courage and faith that Haley demon­strated in overcoming the critical injuries and medical setbacks she suffered can inspire many and so should be told to the widest audi­ence possible.” 
The movie’s tentative title is “Two Miles from Home,” 

City 
continued from page 1 
great. 
“I think it was overly sim­plistic,” he said. “They didn’t even reflect on the deeper understanding of what it means to be a great city.” 
He said such attributes garnered recognition for South Bend in 2009 when it was chosen as a finalist for the National Civic League’s All -America City competi ­tion. 
South Bend Mayor Steve Luecke said in an interview with The Observer that Newsweek’s article does not reflect on the vibrant culture of the city. 
“If people come to know the heart of the people of South Bend, and come to see great opportunities we have with recreation, cultural, entertainment opportunities, and now even more so with job opportunities coming based on research parks, they can form a different picture of South Bend,” he said. 
Brown said people often do not realize the positive influ­ence higher education has in regions such as South Bend. 
“The University believes there is a lot going for [South Bend], ” he said. “What I think is lost some­times is South Bend has an anchor — one of the preemi­nent universities in the coun­try, and we are not going anywhere.” 
Brown said this effect is created not only by Notre Dame but also by the five other colleges in the region. 
He said even though South Bend faces challenges, stu­dents continue to apply to the school in record num­bers. 
“The fact of the matter is, the problems cities like South Bend face aren’t new. This past fall, we attracted 16,000 applicants for the incoming class,” Brown said. “That broke the application record by 2,000 [applicants]. It wasn’t just barely beating the record.” 
Brown said the article also does not seem to have impacted the interest of fac­ulty the University is cur­rently recruiting. 
Bishop said while prospec­tive students and their par­ents are more drawn to Notre Dame than the sur ­rounding area, these poten­tial faculty are interested in the relationship between the city and the school. 
“Notre Dame itself is a des­tination that people come to, ” he said. “One of the thing they like is the increased relationship between Notre Dame and the city.” 
Bishop said most appli ­cants are more interested in what they can do for the sur­rounding community rather than what the community can offer them. 
“Today’s students want to be more public service ori­ented,” he said. “They’re not looking so much at the serv­ices of the city as much as can they be of service to the city.” 
Students applying to the University focus on Notre Dame as a college rather than South Bend as a city, Bishop said. 
“Most families considering Notre Dame are more con­cerned with whether they can get admitted, whether financial aid will be suffi ­cient and whether our pro­grams are better than their other choices,” he said. 
While applicants and their parents may be interested in dining, housing and shopping 
options in South Bend, Bishop said they recognize what the Notre Dame cam­pus itself can offer. 
“They understand at Notre Dame there is more enter­tainment on campus then at most colleges,” he said. 
Bishop said students look­ing for an urban campus probably should consider 
options other than Notre Dame. However, he said what the campus does offer is special even though it is not in a metropolitan area. 
“With the defined campus today, [students] want it to have a relationship with the nearby city,” Bishop said. “They like the best of both worlds. They like having their own defined space and the ability to get out of that space.” 
Brown said there is a ten­dency among students to not recognize all that is offered in South Bend. Brown is originally from San Diego and has lived in South Bend for 20 years. 
“This kind of community is not for everyone. If you want a big city or warm weather all the time, this is not the place for you,” Brown said. “But if you want a place that has great values and is cen­trally located, close to big cities, has a great cost of liv­ing index, then South Bend is the place to live.” 
Brown said one of the most exciting things about South Bend is the growing relation­ship between the city and Notre Dame. 
“The community and Notre Dame are working together to reinvent the city. Everyone knows it was a blue-collar based city for decades,” he said. “Now there is a new move towards technology and service.” 
Luecke said the city cer­tainly is well situated despite some struggles. 
“The South Bend that I see is a vibrant community,” he said. “It certainly has chal­lenges, but I believe they are in our capacity to deal with, and continue to grow and improve.” 
Working together, Brown said Notre Dame and South Bend have the capability to make the city a better place. 
“There are a lot of things happening. It is not a place that is sitting back and throwing its hands up in the air asking, ‘What are we going to do?’” 
Madeline Buckley contributed to this report. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 



Runoff 
continued from page 1 
Thomas said the number gen­erally remains the same, and that this year’s was a respectable turnout. 
The McCormick-Rocheleau ticket received 1,536 votes, which is equal to 38.07 percent of the votes, followed by Ward and Eaton, who received 911 votes, or 22.59 percent. 
The Catherine Soler-Emily LeStrange ticket, with 904 votes, or 22.42 percent, received only seven votes less than Ward and Eaton. 
The two remaining tickets, Ricky Bevington-Olivia Colangelo and Kevin Noonan-Matt Thomas, received 266 votes, or 6.60 percent, and 257 votes, or 6.37 percent, respec­tively. 
One hundred and sixty-three students, or 4.04 percent, chose to abstain from voting. 
Following the results, Ward said he is glad the results prove that he and Eaton con­nected with students. 
“We’re absolutely overjoyed to know that people do have confidence in us,” he said. “That’s what continues to inspire us to go through this whole process.” 
Ward and Eaton also both expressed their positive feel-Odds: Haley Scott’s Journey of Faith and Triumph.” 
The bus accident on which the film is based occurred Jan. 24, 1992. DeMaria, a freshman at the time, and her Notre Dane teammates were on their way back to South Bend from a meet at Northwestern University, according to the press release. Due to heavy snow, the bus slid off the Indiana Toll Road two miles before the exit to return to campus. 
Meghan Beeler and Colleen Hipp, both freshman swim­mers, died in the crash. 
After two operations at South Bend ’s Memorial 
ings toward McCormick and Rocheleau. 
“It’s nice to know that no matter which way it goes we will be happy with the results,” Eaton said. 
McCormick and Rocheleau said they are excited about the possibility to see their plan for a new vision of student govern­ment through. 
“It’s been an honor for us to have the chance to have this conversation with the student body,” McCormick said. 
McCormick said the palpable excitement on campus is because this campaign has never been about the candi­dates. 
“It’s about Notre Dame stu­dents’ hopes for the school,” he said. “We’re fired up to realize a broader vision and to put our hope in action for Notre Dame.” 
Rocheleau said he is both excited and hopeful for things to come. 
Soler said she and LeStrange planned to continue their involvement in student govern­ment despite their loss. 
“I am disappointed Emily and I won’t be able to serve the stu­dent body in the way we had hoped,” she said. “But we want to say thank you to everyone who supported us, and we will contribute to the student body in any way we can.” 
Although he will not proceed doctors told DeMaria that she would likely spend the rest of her life in a wheel­chair, the press release stat­ed. 
One week after the acci­dent, DeMaria regained some feeling in her legs, was able to walk with a cane one month later and returned to classes on Notre Dame ’s campus in the spring of 1992. 
That summer, the rods in DeMaria’s legs meant to keep her spine straight came lose and she was rushed to San Diego for three more surger­ies. She almost died during one of the surgeries, accord-
to the runoff election, Bevington said he truly enjoyed his experience of running for student body president. 
“I had an awesome time,” he said. “There were so many great tickets willing to run and trying to help the student body.” 
Noonan said he and Thomas are simply glad their number of votes is higher than the number of students who abstained. 
The Judicial Council distrib­uted a link to the voting web­site by e-mail on Monday, and students were able to vote on the site between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. 
The results were delayed 24 hours due to a campaign viola­tion by the Ward-Eaton ticket. Ward sent an e-mail titled “Your year next year” that was found by the Judicial Council to contain campaign misconduct. 
As a sanction, Ward was required to send a second e­mail to the student body apolo­gizing for his prior message by 
11:59 p.m. Monday night. Although an appeal was filed within Student Senate, the appeal was later dropped and the decision of the Election Committee stood. 
Ward complied with the given sanction before the deadline. 

Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 
es in the fall of 1992 and slowly began to swim again. On Oct. 29, 1993 she swam a 50-meter race and won her heat. 
DeMaria and co-producers Chris Jones and Dan Waterhouse are raising money and hope to begin filming this year, according to the press release. They plan to release the film in 2012, the 20th anniversary of the accident. 
Robert C. Thompson, who produced the 1973 Academy Award -winning film, “The Paper Chase,” will serve as executive producer for “Two Miles From Home. ” 
Former Irish head football coach Lou Holtz said in the press release that DeMaria’s story has inspired him. 
“I don’t know of any story more heartwarming, encour­aging or motivating than Haley’s story,” Holtz said. “She is a very special young lady and has had a positive influence on my life as well as many others.” 
DeMaria and her husband, Jamie, who also graduated from Notre Dame, live in Annapolis, Md., with their two children, according to the press release. She is also a board member of the Notre Dame Monogram Club. 


Wednesday, February 16, 2011 The Observer . NEWS page 5 


SMCpicksnewresidencelifedirector 
By BRIDGET MEADE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary ’s recently announced Janielle Tchakerian as the College’s new director of residence life. 
The enthusiastic director assumed her new position with a few goals in mind. 
“In general, I would like to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our process­es to better serve the resi­dents,” she said. “I look for­ward to working with the student leaders on campus, such as the resident advisors and the Residence Hall Association, to improve the quality of life for our resi­dents.” 
Tchakerian said her role as director of residence life will focus on providing lead­ership for the administration and a sense of community among the college’s resi ­dence halls. 

Saint Mary’s after previously serving as the “In general, I would 
director of 
like to improve the
Residence Life at Lawrence effciency and Te c hnica l effectiveness of our University in 
processes to better
Southfi eld , Mich., for seven serve the residents.” years. Tchakerian 
Janielle Tchakerian 
said that she 
director
looks forward 
residence life
to working with the college’s students she feels she has made a smooth tran­sition into the SMC commu­nity. 
“[My first week] went very well,” she said. “Many of the students, fac­ulty and staff stopped by to welcome me.” 
Tchakerian is married to 

because of her own past interaction with her resi­dence life department as a student. 
“I have always enjoyed working with college stu­dents,” she said. “I had a lot her husband, Andre, and enjoys scrapbooking and making cards in her spare time. 
Contact Bridget Meade at bmeade02@saintmarys.edu 
Bill hits illegal immigrants 

Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY — A Senate committee on Tuesday easily approved a pair of Republican-sponsored bills designed to crack down on illegal immigration, despite concerns from Democrats that the bills were an example of “mean-spirited” political pan­dering. 
The Senate Judiciary Committee approved both measures on party-line votes. 

One would deny Oklahoma citizenship to babies born to illegal immigrants, while the other, dubbed “Arizona-plus” by its author, would allow police to not only question people about their immigra­tion status, but also to confis­cate property — including homes and vehicles — belong­ing to those in the country illegally. 
Both measures now advance to the Senate Appropriations Committee. 
Republican Sen. Ralph Shortey, who wrote the immi­gration bills and represents a heavily Hispanic district in south Oklahoma City, said he disagrees with the current interpretation of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution that babies born in this country automatically become American citizens. He said his bill on asset forfeiture would give law enforcement an incentive to capture and jail illegal immigrants. 

UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 
Protestors follow Egyptian example 
Tchakerian, originally from Dearborn, Mich,, received her master’s degree in higher education from the University of Toledo, in Toledo, Ohio. 
The new director came to of wonderful experiences as an undergraduate student and want to provide similar opportunities for students at Saint Mary’s.” 

Two weeks into her new position, Tchakerian said 
Associated Press 
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates 
— Thousands of protesters took over a main square in Bahrain’s capital Tuesday — carting in tents and raising banners — in a bold attempt to copy Egypt’s uprising and force high-level changes in one of Washington’s key allies in the Gulf. 
The move by demonstrators capped two days of clashes across the tiny island kingdom that left at least two people dead, parliament in limbo by an opposition boycott and the king making a rare address on national television to offer con­dolences for the bloodshed. 
Security forces — apparently under orders to hold back — watched from the sidelines as protesters chanted slogans mocking the nation’s ruling sheiks and called for sweeping political reforms and an end to monarchy’s grip on key deci­sions and government posts. 
The unrest in Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s 5th Fleet, adds another layer to Washington’s worries in the region. In Yemen, police and government supporters battled nearly 3,000 marchers calling for the ouster of President Ali Abdullah Saleh in a fifth straight day of violence. 
Yemen is seen as a critical partner in the U.S. fight against a network inspired by al-Qaida. The Pentagon plans to boost its training of Yemen’s counterter­rorism forces to expand the push against the al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula faction, which has been linked to attacks including the attempted airliner bombing in December 2009 and the failed mail bomb plot involving cargo planes last summer. 
Saleh has been holding talks with Yemen’s powerful tribes, which can either tip the balance against him or give him enough strength to possibly ride out the crisis. 
The political mutinies in the Arab world show the wide reach of the calls for change spurred by the toppling of old-guard regimes in Tunisia and Egypt. 
In Jordan, hundreds of Bedouin tribesmen blocked roads to demand the govern­ment return lands they once owned. Saudi activists are seek­ing to form a political party in a rare challenge to the near-absolute power of the pro-Western monarchy. 
Yemen’s grinding poverty and tribal complexities also stand in contrast to the relative wealth and Western-style malls and coffee shops in Bahrain’s capi­tal of Manama. 
But many in Bahrain still boiled down their discontent to a cry for economic justice as well — saying the Sunni rulers control the privileges and opportunities and the Shiite majority struggles with what’s left over and are effectively blackballed from important state jobs. 
“I demand what every Bahraini should have: a job and a house,” said student Iftikhar Ali, 27, who joined the crowds in the seaside Pearl Square. “I believe in change.” 
Protesters quickly renamed it “Nation’s Square” and erected banners such as “Peaceful” that were prominent in Cairo’s Tahrir Square. Many waved Bahraini flags and chanted: “No Sunnis, no Shiites. We are all Bahrainis.” 
Others set up tents and dis­tributed tea and kabobs for those planning to spend the night under one of the city’s landmarks: a nearly 300-foot (90-meter) monument cradling a giant white pearl-shaped ball that symbolizes the country’s heritage as a pearl diving cen­ter. 
Someone used stones to spell out the message in Arabic: “The real criminals are the royal family.” 
There is no direct call to bring down the king, whose family has ruled Bahrain for more than two centuries. But he is suddenly under unprece­dented pressure to make seri­ous changes in how the country is run. 
The key demands — listed on a poster erected in the square 
— included the release of all political prisoners, more jobs and housing, an elected Cabinet and the replacement of the longtime prime minister, Sheik Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Wednesday, February 16, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Spring training 

It’s that time of year again. The snow starts to melt, spring break is in sight and pitchers and catchers are report­ing to camp. 
Arguably the best season is approaching — one with warmer temperatures, March Madness and the upcoming baseball season. 

It gives everyone a chance to take a break from the most boring Andrew Owens month of the sports year, Assistant 

Sports Editor
February, when the only topics seem to be about the NFL labor deal and how the Cleveland Cavaliers would not be able to beat Caltech at this point. 
You know it is bad when a golfer spit­ting receives this much attention, even if it is Tiger Woods. 
But the thought of Opening Day and another baseball season conjures up thoughts of a fast approaching summer — one with vacations, no homework and less stress. 
The thought of a new baseball cam­paign is exciting. The sport has purged itself of the Steroid Era, as shown by the 2010 season — the Year of the Pitcher. 
With four no-hitters last year (includ­ing the second in postseason history) and two perfect games (would have been three had it not been for umpire Jim Joyce ruining the bid of former Detroit Tiger Armando Galarraga), along with the lowest ERA in nearly two decades, it is obvious that the game is returning to its purist form. 
Critics like to point out that baseball’s lack of a salary cap hinders the game. After all, the difference between the game’s largest payroll (the Yankees with $206 million) and the smallest (the Pirates with nearly $35 million) is about $171 million, which in itself is a larger amount than the payroll of any team but the Yankees. 
Despite that gap, there has never been more parity or a higher competi­tive balance in the game than what has been seen over the past decade. 
During the past 10 seasons, only one team has won more than one champi­onship and only four have appeared in more than one. 
Another common argument on why not to watch baseball is that the game is “dying.” Sure, it might not be America’s favorite sport as it has been for most of its existence, but it is hardly dying. The game is so popular that the league has created digital arenas such as MLB.TV and MLB Network through which its product continues to thrive. 
There are certainly enough intriguing subplots for this season — the contract situation of Albert Pujols, if the Giants can once again make up for a weak offense with superb pitching, the perennial Yankees-Red Sox drama. 
So, as we see the end of winter and the beginning of spring in the coming weeks, let the soothing sounds of Vin Scully once again hit the airwaves. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
‘Til death do us part 
Some phrases sear themselves into our cultural consciousness, and, rightfully or not, define events. “Death panels” will cer­tainly represent the health care debate of 2009-10 for future historians. In retrospect, the life cycle of these two words seems bizarre. Sarah Palin intro­duced the term on her Facebook, objecting to a provi­sion in the health­care bill that subsi­dized conversations between ill patients 

Edward Larkin 
and their private doctors about their 
Scientific 
intentions for the 
Notation 

end of life. Palin saw the provision as code language for faceless government bureaucrats making simple decisions on who lives and who dies. 
News outlets latched on to the idea, and policy makers caved accordingly. In a memorable comment, Senator Chuck Grassley said that no one would be “pulling the plug on grandma” and the provision was summarily removed. More than a year later, death panels mean different things to different people: the denigration of the national conversation; an irresponsible media; the feverish pitch of the health care debate itself. However, a more interesting question is why these two words touched a national nerve, a collective insecurity. The answer is that we as a society have a death problem. 
That same summer the phrase was intro­duced, I was shadowing a neurosurgeon at a local hospital in Michigan. After he had scraped part of a tumor out of the head of an 89-year old patient, we discussed the case in his office. 
“Unfortunately, there was no way to remove all of that tumor. We were able to buy her more time, but she will still die,” he said. The words were matter-of-fact, but there was a longing in his eyes that gave me the distinct impression of regret, a sad­ness that he couldn’t do anything more. 
“How much time did we give her?” 
“Probably about a year. She would have died in three months, and we gave her another year. That year will cost about a million dollars when it is all said and done. 
That’s the essential difficulty in health care reform.” 
A million dollars for one year. A grand sum, no doubt. But those nine months were certainly no less significant — more time for that woman to spend with her loved ones, to relish the joyfulness of being; to hold hands and get her affairs in order. Whether this woman knew these aspects of the situation, I don’t know. But imagine if she had chosen to let the disease run its course and forego the surgery. It seems strange to us. We as a culture can not wrap our minds around a surrender like this. When approaching disease — cancer, Alzheimer’s, AIDS — we march unthinking­ly into battle. It’s a cost-benefit analysis minus the cost. 
Earlier this year, Atul Gawande wrote an exquisite article in the New Yorker, “Letting Go.” It deals with the difficulty of dying; the unsatisfying nature of the medical struggle until the end. It was a beautiful, heart-wrenching article, and it asked the difficult questions about death that we as a society have trouble answering. Would I rather have a month of relative health, or five months of misery? Do I want my loved ones to sit at my bedside for a month, while I am unresponsive, chemotherapy coursing through my veins; fighting an unwinnable battle? 
He was a fighter until the very end. 
She took advantage of every option. 
We’re using the most aggressive therapy possible. 
These are the refrains we hear in hospi­tals. And they are not inappropriate — any­one who has seen the strength and dignity of the severely ill gains such an apprecia­tion for their fight. In our zeal for battle, however, we lose recognition of the grace of approaching death with a placid demeanor, head held high. It’s a fight, the fight against cancer, and we as a society will be damned if every last person doesn’t go kicking and screaming until the very end. 
In 2011, we are oddly removed from our mortality. Movies and video games are sat­urated with exotic scenarios of “death.” Note the quotation marks — death in the movies is about as close to reality as The Sims. Notice how easily people die. Someone gets stabbed, shot, hit by a car and 10 seconds later they are dead. The illusion hardly registers; the struggle is never shown. 
Real death, by contrast, is bizarrely absent from the modern world. We rarely see dead people. We don’t see scenes of the process of dying on the news — it is consid­ered too graphic. Football is humane com­pared to the gladiatorial bouts of ancient Rome. Our religions preach eternal life. We all have doubts about that, and we don’t ask ourselves what real, never-ending eter­nity would be like. Rather, we accept and cling to it with desperation. Not long ago, the average age of death in even advanced areas of the world was about 25. The psy­chological effects of this cannot be overstat­ed — imagine if many of your siblings and friends had died before the age of 10. In the 21st century, death is something to be shut away in the recesses of our mind for most of our life, brought out under compulsion during sickness or old age. 
Behind the humming of biomedical research laboratories, the rapturous proclamations of futurists like Ray Kurzweil, the philanthropic foundations to fight against cancer, is the desire to fend off death for as long as possible. We may even­tually learn to survive for lengths of time that aren’t even currently comprehensible. Indeed, researchers at Harvard Medical School recently demonstrated in a much-hyped paper in Nature that they could reverse aging in genetically modified mice. Others claim that future humans will be able to download their consciousness to computers and fuse with robots, and there­fore last into eternity. Extending life is a noble quest, no doubt. However, by denying it so violently, we fail to understand the inevitability. When we are confronted with death, it’s no wonder we are completely ill equipped to cope. 
As Atul Gawande says at the end of Letting Go, “there is no prettifying death.” This is true — the final exhalation will be forever shocking in its finality, a defeat. However, there is prettifying life — it’s what each of us strives for, every day. An ulti­mate acceptance cannot make death any more beautiful. Not so for the end of life. 
Edward Larkin is a senior majoring in biological sciences and classical civilization. He can be reached at elarkin1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I believe in God, only I spell it Nature.” 
Frank Lloyd Wright
U.S. architect 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The possession of unlimited powerwill make a despot of almost anyman. There is a possible Nero in thegentlest human creature thatwalks.” 
Thomas Bailey
U.S. writer 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, February 16, 2011 page 7 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Thank you, Notre Dame 
On behalf of the men of Siegfried Hall, I would like to thank every one of you, the Notre Dame community, for contributing to the success of Day of Man. Last Wednesday, we woke up to tem­peratures hovering around zero degrees with negative wind chills. At that point, any man who is about to walk outside in shorts and a t-shirt has to question his sanity. However, the embrace of the Notre Dame community pulled us through. We asked only that you give us what spare change you had, and you gave us so much more. As of now, the Notre Dame community has collected $6,250 for the South Bend Center for the Homeless. The Day of Man was more successful than any before because of the help that each of you gave us. Whether you donated money or gave us some hot chocolate to warm up, your help buoyed our efforts. We cannot thank you enough for your help. 
This leaves only one thing to say. Congratulations, Notre Dame community! When we asked for help, you responded. When the homeless of South Bend needed your help, you willingly donated your hard-earned money. Most importantly, by you standing in solidarity with the homeless, people in South Bend will have the basic warmth and shelter that is needed in a South Bend winter. Your contributions as a community showed what it truly means to “Man Up!” (or “Woman Up!” if you prefer). 
Andrew Ritter Peter Thompson 
sophomores Siegfried Hall Feb. 14 

Consequences of ignorance 
Yesterday, I read a frustrating piece in which Michael Falvey recy­cled a number of debunked arguments against allowing gays to serve in the military (“Consequences of repealing Don’t ask, Don’t tell,” Feb. 15). He talks about the 60 percent of infantrymen who, in their infinite wisdom, have been able to predict how their units would function were gay people allowed to serve with honor and integrity in the mili­tary. I know that I don’t need to throw out numbers from the report, as Mr. Falvey has certainly already read it, but he seems to have missed some key statistics: 70 percent of the overall military think that gay service members serving openly would have little to no effect on unit cohesion, and of the 69 percent of service members who respond­ed that they believed they had served with someone who was gay, 92 percent said that their unit’s ability to work together was either very good, good or neutral. There’s also the fact that countries such as Israel, England, Germany, Australia, Italy, Canada and at least 20 oth­ers already allow gays to serve openly in the military. Unit cohesion has not been adversely affected in their militaries. 
Desegregation of the U.S. military offers a pertinent historical paral­lel. When the question came whether or not to allow blacks to serve with whites, there was much greater opposition than there is to gays serving in the military. The same arguments about unit cohesion and effectiveness were made then; the same fear-mongering ensued to prevent black and white soldiers from mixing. We have been desegre­gated for over 50 years, and our military is as strong as ever. 
Mr. Falvey also brings up the fact that service in the military entails a life of discomfort about which civilians cannot know. I argue that this is the very reason the military should be able to handle gay sol­diers. If servicemen cannot accept the reality that they already serve alongside gay people, how can we expect them to be able to adapt to the stresses of serving in hostile territories among people far more dif­ferent from them than are their gay compatriots? We expect our mili­tary to be resilient and brave, not a bunch of weak-kneed schoolchild­ren who can’t function alongside openly gay fellow soldiers. As many soldiers have said, in the heat of battle the last thing they are thinking about is the sex lives of the men around them. 
The last issue I want to address is the effect that DADT has on gay soldiers. Gay people are attracted to the military for the same reason straight people are — they want to serve their country with honor and integrity. Forcing them to lie about who they are and who they love not only degrades them, but betrays the traditional American values of honesty and decency that our armed services strive to uphold. 
God 
Country 
Notre Dame 
Eric Routen 
senior off campus Feb. 15 

Consequences of not repealing DADT 
“The repeal of ‘Don’t ask, Don’t tell’ will introduce conflicts and concerns at the small unit level will take away from the actual training leading to war (“Consequences of repealing Don’t ask, Don’t tell,” Feb. 15).” 
Yes. The repeal of DADT will introduce con­flicts within units. Any number of differences can spark conflict in units; most times, those conflicts can be resolved with some applied maturity. A more concrete demonstration, if you’ll allow: 
Hi, Michael Falvey. I’m Robert. I graduated from Notre Dame in 2009, majoring in English and art. My favorite Ninja Turtle is Raphael, but my favorite Renaissance painter is Michelangelo. I lived in Alumni Hall for four years. I love Notre Dame. 
And I’m gay. Michael, I love men. My telling you this might create conflict between us. But we’re both Domers. I would hope our bond is stronger than that, or else the much-hyped Notre Dame family is just a couple of empty words. 
Michael, you’re a freshman, so maybe you’re inexperienced with LGBT people. We’re not some new group, invading your social circle; we’re already a part of it and always have been. Roughly 10 percent of everyone you know. So when, not if, some of your friends come out of the closet, it’ll create conflict within your social unit. Would you kick them out of your circle of friends and avoid the issue, or would you accept them and work past your conflict to strengthen your friendship? 
Think about what you’d do for a friend or a fellow Domer. And that goes for all of you in the military, too. We are Americans; we are ND. 
Robert Scully 
alumnus class of 2009 Feb. 15 

Just laugh, ladies 
Dear all the people freaking out over the Keenan Revue, 
Please calm down. It was comedy skits written for one reason — comedy. They weren’t putting personal names of women at Saint Mary’s in the skits. What, did you expect them not to talk about us? It was called “Too Big for Saint Mary’s” (which I thought was brilliant). These skits are not written down and published for the world to see. It’s not like everyone outside “the bubble” thinks when you hear “Saint Mary’s College,” it’s “Oh yeah, I heard in the Keenan Revue they said they were sleazy and dumb. I am going to believe what they have to say”. The only negative remarks I have heard about the Revue was what I have read in the latest Viewpoints. 
Personally, I was looking forward to the Revue all week. I had a tough week and needed to cheer up and what better way to do it then laugh at yourself and others. I saw the Revue on Thursday when it was a fresh little creation these men had made so I got to see the “original stuff” and trust me it was not that bad. I think it is healthy to laugh at yourself once in awhile. It is not like you see Jimmy Clausen or Golden Tate writing to the Viewpoint and com­plaining about how they were the punch line of an entire skit. And they have been getting made fun of for the last three Revues I have seen! Also, I have not read one article about the men who were parading around in nothing but short shorts and at times getting a little too close for comfort during certain dance scenes. Technically they were being discriminated against for being purely objects while they showed off their bodies (which is a wonderful part of the Revue) to raise money and get some excitement out of the women in their presence. I don’t hear any males at Notre Dame getting up in arms about it. Face it, we live in a society where sex sells. It is terrible but it’s true. 
I will say this though. There were a lot of jabs at Saint Mary’s College for various things that I could laugh at and brush off my shoulders (even the Education major stab) except one thing. To the men who wrote the script — did you really have to call us fat? That is just rude. Did your mom ever teach you some manners? 
So overall I hope everyone can take a chill pill for a second and just laugh at yourself. We all need some laughter in this stressful time in our lives. We all know who we are and should be comfortable enough to have a giggle. Also, I hope no one takes my response too seriously. I just wanted to voice my opinion like so many have in the past that I do respect. 
Yours truly (and proud to be a SMC Chick), 
Megan Flaherty 
junior Le Mans Hall Feb. 15 

Acting for love 
Alex Coccia, in his Valentine’s Day article “Be For Love” (Feb. 14), depicts what I take to be pangs in the hearts of our homosexual brothers and sisters at the University of Notre Dame. Seeing a man and woman holding hands, caress­ing, kissing, can awaken a deep longing for a ful­fillment that can only be found in the heart of another. These bodily acts of love are done so casually in our culture that one begins to ques­tion, “Why can’t anyone do them?” 
I think I’ve come to learn that most people shouldn’t; at least, most people who currently do them shouldn’t. At the Edith Stein Conference last weekend, Professor O’Connor addressed the discrepancy between negative and positive uses of our body. We take murder seriously, but con­ception casually. A punch in the face is a grave pain, but a caress isn’t a big deal. 
We touch, caress and kiss so often in our cul­ture that now what was once an intimate act of affection is something one does with a stranger in a dim dorm room party. They mean close to noth­ing today, and so our relationships with the peo­ple we do these things with have a kind of super­ficial air about them. 
But we should take seriously our actions and understand that romantic relationships should be seeking and ordered towards one thing: mar­riage. If not ordered for marriage, or at least the discernment of marriage, then the relationship isn’t ordered towards anything. 
This teleology explains what Mr. Coccia calls “straight privilege.” I don’t have time in this letter to explain why, but I will only repeat the Church’s stance that marriage is for a man and a woman. 
And actions that are ordered toward marriage, likewise, should be between a man and a woman. 
Please don’t take me to be a homophobe or whatever. If any homosexual (or heterosexual) students on campus would like to meet with me for a legitimate discussion on these matters, or just to hang out, I think I can find some time. You certainly have my prayers. 
In Notre Dame, 
Christopher Damian 
sophomore Morrissey Hall Feb. 15 

The Observer 
Scene
page 8 Wednesday, February 16, 2011 

By MARIELLE HAMPE 
Scene Writer 

Whether you love theatre or instead enthusiastically prefer sci­ence, the Department of Film, Television and Theatre’s production of “Proof” appeals to everyone. In “Proof,” Catherine, the daughter of a brilliant but mentally disturbed mathematician, questions whether she is also becoming insane. 
When Catherine’s father dies, one of his former students, Hal, searches through his papers in hopes of dis­covering a unique mathematics proof. “Proof” explores the bounds of mathematics, love, ambition and madness as Hal and Catherine dis­cover themselves through a mathe­matical proof. 
“Proof” is directed by professor Cheryl Turski. Senior Ryan Belock plays Hal and freshman Ashley Lawrence plays Catherine. “Proof” was selected over a year ago by the Department of Film, Television and Theatre as an ongoing effort to con­nect science with theater. 
“This show is great for Notre Dame,” Turski said. “Students will 
During awards season, I inevitably get asked, “What did you think of the Grammys?” This is met with some basic frustration every time. See, I am an awards season groupie. I live for the red car­pet, the interviews between stars and late night hosts dis­cussing nominations and wins and the endless stream of news analyzing, dis­secting and cele­brating film and television. And, of course, Entertainment Weekly’s Oscar Ultimate Viewer’s Guide. 
From the Golden Globes in January to the Academy Awards the last weekend in February, it’s the one time of the year when everybody in Hollywood is about everyone else’s business, sharing gossip, inside scoops and juicy stories about filming and/or some­one’s “real” personality. I celebrate baseball season, Irish football season (which is pretty much a lifestyle), the Christmas season and, right about when my Seasonal Affective Disorder kicks in, the blessed, blessed awards season. 
So what about the Grammys, then? If you easily be able to identify with the characters on stage because the characters are hardworking, highly intelligent students trying to make their way in a university atmos ­phere.” 

“In college you learn so much about yourself,” Belock said. “You come from high school and every­thing just explodes. 
“The action of ‘Proof ’ occurs around the University of Chicago campus, and we did a lot of table work talking about the differences between the atmosphere of the University of Chicago and the University of Notre Dame. The University of Chicago campus seems to be a more competitive atmos ­phere, and this helped us to under­stand the pressure Hal felt trying to make a big mathematical discovery.” 
“Catherine is a socially awkward genius who is afraid she is going insane and who in the play seems selfish, but I think she is selfless,” Lawrence said. “She stopped going to college so she could take care of her father, and her mathematical proof helps to make up for that loss. 
“She has a lot of emotion in what she says. To portray her, I tried to 
happen to ask me if I was excited to watch them, like my roommate did on Sunday, or what I thought of them, like a friend did today, I will tell you, I don’t care. I didn’t watch. I don’t find them interesting. And frankly, I think the Grammys are irrelevant. 
This is a bold statement to make, especial­ly since I am (in addition to being a television major, which I stressed last week) a music major. I geek out over film and TV — where’s the musical love? 
Easy. I love music. I love my music. I love my music collection. I love the radio, where I find new music. I love my friends’ music, where I tend to find new things. I love when friends send me music. I love to proselytize music, sending it to my friends. I read about it, blog about it, and complain when people don’t understand it. But honey, the Grammys ain’t about music. 
I’m not saying the pop music flaunted dur­ing the telecast isn’t good. I love it. Lady Gaga, Katy Perry, Lady Antebellum — I’ve got all the albums, and I listen to them. They are not the problem. The Grammys as an awards show is the problem, because, when it comes down to it, it isn’t really awarding anything an artist hasn’t already got. It’s a popularity contest, plain and simple. I’m not saying that’s bad, I just find it boring. 
It’s generally accepted that the biggest winner of the year musically is the one find things comparable to not only Catherine’s emotional loss of the death of her father, but also the feel­ing of achieving a world-changing proof.” 
Catherine appears emotionally detached until Hal enters her life. “Hal is an intelligent, semi -hip young adult trying to find his place with high achieving mathematicians. He is an easy -going guy who is sometimes arrogant,” Belock said of his character. 
Although “Proof” involves suffering and loss, it goes beyond that and explores other human emotions. 
“The reception after Catherine’s father’s funeral is one of the livelier, more positive scenes. This scene reflects real-life awkwardness, and it’s the first time the audience gets to see the relationship start to devel­op between Catherine and Hal. In a show touching on more emotional issues, the after-funeral party is ironically the most comic scene in the show,” Belock said. 
Once Catherine sets out to prove that she is the author of a mathe­matical proof discovered in one of her father ’s notebooks, Hal and Catherine’s friendship becomes more 
who’s made the most money. I’m thinking Gaga and Perry, here. They had slam dunk years, along with people like Eminem and Rihanna. People everyone has heard of win Grammys. That’s the precedent. That’s why I don’t bother. The only reason to watch is to see musical performances, most of which I can just YouTube later of I hear they’re any good. Other than that, it’s just a parade of the obvious. 
But not this year. This year, something happened that shook the very foundation of the Grammys. Arcade Fire won. Yes, the band named Arcade Fire, (which does exist, even if you’ve never heard of it). And not just anything, but Album of the Year. Which is a huge category, from what I can tell. 
This has unleashed a storm of unrest. Here is a sampling of tweets from the last few days: “So, has anyone worked out who Arcade Fire are yet?” “Who even are Arcade Fire? I mean they can’t be that good if no one has heard of them. Silly.” And my personal favorite, “While arcade fire per­form I will listen to some proper music on my ipod #katyperry.” 
There is an outrage at the mere thought that someone who isn’t world renowned, someone who has flown under the radar, and even helped invent the genre and sub­culture of “indie” (shut up hipsters, I don’t want to hear it) could win Album of the Year uncertain. Through a variety of emo­tions and intimate connections with the four main characters, “Proof” proves it is a play about more than mathematical proofs. The play explores the proof required to trust or love someone and the necessity of believing in your own capabilities. 
On campus 
What: The play “Proof” Where: DPAC When: Thursday, Feb. 17, 7:30 
p.m. How much: $15 regular, $12 for seniors, $10 for students,
$10 for youth Learn more: 
performingarts.nd.edu 
Contact Marielle Hampe at mhampe@nd.edu 
at the Grammys. Even I was surprised. But as the incredulous world has spoken out against such an event, appalled that the award was pulled out from under other such worthy stars like #katyperry, I point to Arcade Fire as the exception that proves the rule. 
Last year, “The Hurt Locker” won Best Picture, beating out mammothly popular “Avatar.” Everyone in Hollywood congratu­lated themselves, picking the hard, less suc­cessful war movie for the top prize. No one griped that, since Avatar made a billion dol­lars worldwide, it deserved the prize. Its net gross seemed irrelevant, perhaps detrimen­tal to its Oscar success. 
Last year Meryl Streep, a total dark horse nominee for her role in the movie Doubt, won Best Actress at the Screen Actor’s Guild awards. She was so convinced she wouldn’t win she hadn’t even worn a dress to the ceremony. Everyone was ecstatic. But at the Grammys, the heavy hitters miss out on one award, and people are flabbergast­ed, even insulted. Which is why the Grammys are, in my humble opinion, irrele­vant. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Stephanie DePrez can be contacted at sdeprez@nd.edu. 

LAUREN KALINOSKI I Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, February 16, 2011 page 9 

song, so we spent a lot of time in the 
By CHRIS COLLUM 

studio. After recording, Zack 
Scene Writer 

Madden edited all of the tracks before sending them to a profession-
Halftime, an up and coming 20 al studio for mixing and mastering. 
member a capella group on campus, In all, the whole process took over a 
recently released its second album, year to complete. 
“noted.” The album consists of 10 covers of popular songs like 
I found the variety of songs on 
Coldplay’s “Viva La Vida” and Sara 
your CD (from Keith Urban to The 
Bareilles’ “Love Song.” The Observer 
Hush Sound) interesting. How do 
had the chance to interview the 
you guys choose songs to cover? 
group’s president, senior Meghan McDermott. 
Basically, we just choose songs that we like. All of our music is arranged 
How did Halftime 

by Halftime members, so 
start? Tell me a 

everyone has a 
little bit about 

say in what we 
the formation of 

sing. Now that 
the group as 

the group has 
well the mem­

been around for 
bers’ previous 

a few years we 
a capella 
have a 
fairly 
experience. 

large repertoire that we can dig Halftime through and pull 
was found-out “old” songs in 

ed in 2004 addition to 

by Zack arranging new 

Madde n songs that are pop-

and Kevin ular right now. The diversity of musical interests of our 

members results in a wide variety of musi-Hoelscher. They saw a cal styles and songs. 
gap in the Notre Dame musical com­munity and decided to fill it with a 
How would you respond to compar­
coed pop/rock a cappella ensemble. 
isons to the popular Fox TV show 
In the last few years the audition 
“Glee,” which seem to be inevitable 
process has become much more 
for many a capella groups recently? 
intense and competitive. We accept any and all applicants — some have 
You’re right — comparisons to extensive a cappella experience, “Glee” are inevitable. If “Glee” is some sang in their high school choir making more people interested in aand some have no experience at all. 
cappella, then we don’t mind. We are Most of the members who are definitely not the same as “Glee” (for accepted into the group have musi­instance, they don’t actually sing acal experience, however. 
cappella on the show; they always have instrumental accompaniment) 
Do you have any long-or short-
but we are all fans of the show. We 
term goals for the group? 

do generally try to stay away from the songs that are on “Glee” though, Producing this CD was a huge goal because we don’t want to be a “Glee” for the group. For some time now we cover group. I think that the only have wanted to create a physical song we both sing is “Don’t Stop product that could stand on its own Believing,” which we already had an as a representation of Halftime. 
arrangement of before “Glee” start-This semester our spring concert is ed. 
very early, so we’ll have lots of time at the end of the year to work on my next goal for the group, which is to sing at more off-campus events, pos-

On campus
sibly in some South Bend high schools. 
What: Halftime Where: TBA

Tell me a little bit about the 
When: Saturday, March 26, 7:30 
recording and production of “noted.” How did that happen? p.m.
How much: TBAHow long did it take? 

Learn more: Email halftime@nd.edu 
The recording process was very extensive. We started in October 2009, and finished in the spring of 2010. Recording entailed individual Contact Chris Collum at sessions for every part on every ccollum@nd.edu 
With seemingly divisive biases levied against it, one might think it would be wise to address said obstacles within the documentary. Show the amazing story that brought this teenager from an unknown to a household name in less than two years. Show him to be not just a nor­mal kid, but a good kid as well. Show that his musical talent extends beyond his childlike voice and catchy choruses. 
I’ll give the makers of the film credit — they tried, kind of. The film gives anecdotes of the singer’s early life, showing him to be a musical prodigy from an early age. It gives some light to the difficult path that he had to overcome to achieve his stardom. 
It even shows Bieber as a regular teenager who wants to play basketball with his friends and just have a good time. 
The film also tries to show him as a good guy in a painfully awkward encounter between Bieber and a young girl playing the violin on the same street corner that Bieber used to sing from for money. I felt sorry for everyoneinvolved. 
However, for the most part, whatever insight into Bieber that is gained from the film is superficial and is cut short by the lack of focus in the documentary. Seemingly over half of the film is dedicated to clips of live stage performances and to the unbelievable adora­tion of Bieber by teenage and preteen girls. 
At one point, I tried to play a game with myself that I entitled “count how many shots 

I’ll give a disclaimer to start this review: Justin Bieber had to do a lot for me to get me to like him in the new documentary, “Never Say Never,” which is, get this, Kevin Noonan based on his “life.” By its simple nature, this film 
Scene Writer 

had several obsta­cles to clear before some critics (this one included) could seriously consider it legiti­mate. 
Obstacle number one: 
This is the life story of a 16-year-old boy. Granted, this is not the average 16 year old. He is an international superstar and com­mands the hearts of 14-year-old girls every­where, and therefore controls the wallets of the parents of 14-year-old girls everywhere. But come on — the kid still has yet to hit puberty. 
Obstacle number two: 
Bieber’s music is polarizing. Yes, junior high and early high school girls love him of girls crying because they love Justin Bieber so much this movie can show in a one minute span.” But then I lost count at 20-something and slapped myself instead. 
But the real problem with the film rests in its purpose. I wanted to see this documentary because I wanted to find out for myself why it was made. I walked out slightly irked and still not able to tell for certain. 
It could have been an inside look at the pos­sibilities created by the fact that this kid became what he is today because of the inter-net and social networking. Bieber is the first YouTube-created superstar, which could cause an interesting shift in the dynamic of the career process for future artists. But while this idea is mentioned, it is not dwelled on. 
The film could have focused on how Bieber is dealing with this rapid shift from being a normal kid to a household name seemingly overnight. But again, this is men­tioned but not really expanded upon. In fact, there are remarkably little personal views of Bieber in this documentary. Most of his airtime is in video from his concerts. 
The only real purpose that seems to be 
andhisoverlycatchy,over-played 
presentinthisdocumentaryistofurther singles,butitwouldbehardto thebrandofJustinBieber.Thefilmseems findalargeconstituencyof mostlyconcernedwithconvincingtheaudi­Bieberfanaticsatthisuniver-encethatthiskidisastar. Which,frankly, sity,especiallyamongthe seemsalittlefoolish. It’ssafetosaythatifa male population. person is going to this documentary, he or Obstacle number three: she already knows that he’s a star. 
Ithinkhe’sapunk.Callit Butenoughnegativity —I’llendona unprofessional,calliteditori-positive. Thisfilmdiddoonethingvery alization,callitwhatever, well. It showedBieber’sincrediblemusical butIknowthatIdon’t talent. Yes,hecansing. Buthecanalso speak just for myself. play the piano, guitar and trumpet. He is Thereisastigma,fairornot, quitepossiblyabetterdrummerthanhe surroundinghimasabitofan isasinger.Hewritesallhisownsongs. annoying little kid. He can dance and has an intangible tal­
ent for entertaining a crowd. So bad news, Bieber haters, this kid isn’t going away for a long time, even after he hits puberty. 
But even with that said, unless you’ve already been struck with a bad case of Bieber Fever (a phrase that I would to per­sonally punch in the metaphorical face), you have grade school aged girls or you’re that creepy old woman who sat behind me, there really is not much reason to pay money to see this. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Kevin Noonan can be contacted at knoonan2@nd.edu. 
Justin Bieber: Never Say Never 
Paramount 

Director: Jon Chu Starring: Justin Bieber, Miley Cyrus, Usher, Boys II Men 

LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 16, 2011 
CLUB SPORTS 

Men’s volleyball steals victory from Spartans 
Special to The Observer 
The men’s volleyball team squared off against Michigan State for the annual Battle at the House of Noise. The teams traveled to St. Joseph High School in Michigan, where the Spartan team puts on a vol­leyball clinic, and as an end of the week event, the two teams played in a best of five match. 
The Irish were off to a slow start, barely edging out a win in game one by a score of 25­23, and losing game two, 25­
19. After a short break, Notre Dame came out and dominat­ed early in the third game and won 25-19, giving them a 2-1 advantage. Notre Dame start­ed game four poorly and was down early. Led by junior Kevin Padden, the Irish came storming back to knot the game at 24, and eventually win 27-25. 
The win over the rival Spartans was important for the Irish, as it gave Notre Dame its best start in years with a 14-3 record. The Irish play next on Feb. 26 at the Hoosier-Illini Classic at Indiana University. 
Figure Skating 
The figure skating club closed its season with a sec­ond place showing at the Tri-States championships this weekend. With three second place finishes and one first place championship, the club posted its most successful season. Senior Anna Katter has been a mainstay and driv­ing force for the past four years as the club progressive­ly improved under the tute­lage of coach Tracey Mulherin. 
Gymnastics 
On Feb. 12, the Notre Dame-Saint Mary’s gymnastics club traveled to Purdue for the annual Golden Grips Invitational Meet. This was the first meet of the season for the Irish, and the team showed great promise. 
The women’s team, com­prised of freshman Kelsey Teske, freshman Mary Katheryn Snyder, junior Elizabeth Bonne and junior Sarah Cole placed eighth in team standings. The finish was bolstered by an impres­sive score of 33.55 by Teske, who placed 14th overall. 
On the men’s side, strong scores were posted by juniors Mike Hannigan and Kyle Sandberg and senior Patrick Gorman, who led the team to a 4th place finish. Hannigan additionally took fourth on rings with a score of 8.3. The Gymnastics Club’s next meet is their home meet, the Clover Classic, which will be held on Feb. 26 at Gymnastics Michiana in Mishawaka. 
Ultimate 
In their first tournament with a full roster, the Notre Dame Ultimate Men’s A-Team had a disappointing weekend at the Queen City Tune-Up in Charlotte, N.C. Despite the return of juniors Thom Kenealy and Will Cernanec from study abroad programs, the team finished 1-5 on the weekend with losses to Wake Forest, Ohio, Georgia, Michigan State and North Carolina State. The lone win came against East Carolina. 
Troubled by the zone defense of Wake Forest and Ohio, Notre Dame started slowly, falling behind 7-0 to both teams. Led by senior captains Justin Browne and Mike DellaPenna, the team staged a furious comeback against the Demon Deacons, but fell short, losing 14-13. 
Against Ohio, despite play­ing better in the second half, the first half deficit was too large to overcome. In the next game against perennial Nationals contender Georgia, the Irish finally turned in a strong first half, trading points with the Bulldogs for much of the first half. The Bulldogs took control in the second half, however, winning 14-8. 
Finally, against East Carolina, Notre Dame put a complete game together, beat­ing the Pirates, 14-7, without surrendering a break on offense. Freshman Connor Haney played shut -down defense and cut well on offense in his first game expe­rience. Junior James Denue added experience on offense, and sophomore Zack Woodruff made big plays on both sides of the disc. 
On Sunday, a visibly tired Notre Dame struggled to keep up with Michigan State on defense. The loss to the Spartans was followed by another defeat at the hands of North Carolina State. A bright spot came in the form of soph­omore Jonathon Koch, whose constant bids kept the team energized throughout the day. Notre Dame will look to rebound at the Midwest Throwdown in St. Louis, Mo., on March 5 and 6. 
MLB 

Beckett preparing for comeback performance in 2011 
Series.”  a  9-7 loss  to  the New York  
Associated Press  Beckett joined the Red Sox  Yankees. The  next  day, the  
F O R T  M Y E R S ,  F l a .  — A t  i n  2 0 0 6  i n  a  t r a d e  w i t h  Red Sox announced that he  
spring training last year, Red  Florida, two years after they  h a d  s i g n e d  a  $ 6 8 m i l l i o n ,  
Sox manager Terry Francona  won  their first World Series  four-year contract starting in  
c a l l e d  J o s h  B e c k e t t  “ t h e  in 86 years. In 2007, he went  2011.  
leader” of the pitching staff.  20-7 with  a  career-best 3.27  Did that add pressure that  
The two-time World Series  ERA and  won  the opener of  affected his performance?  
champion’s style of leader-the World Series sweep  over  “I don’t think so,” he said.  
ship?  Colorado, striking out nine in  “But who knows?”  
“I don’t think that it’s what  seven innings in a 13-1 win.  After his eighth start, he  
y o u  s a y, ”  h e  s a i d  t h e n .  “ I  But last year, back prob- w a s  1 -1  w i t h  a  7 . 2 9  E R A .  
think it’s what you do.”  lems, inconsistency and  too  And that outing sent his sea- 
H e  d i d n ’t  d o  m u c h  l a s t  much reliance  on  his cutter  son spiraling downward even  
year.  m a d e  h i m  t h e  w o r s t  o f  more.  
Now, after his worst major  Boston’s regular starters. He  Pitching  on  a  wet  mound  
l e a g u e  s e a s o n ,  B e c k e t t ’s  went 6-6 with  a  5.78 ERA in  against the Yankees  on  May  
s t a r t i n g  a n o t h e r  s p r i n g  21 outings. His problems and  1 8 ,  h e  s t r a i n e d  h i s  l o w e r AP  
training  not trying  to make  a  s u c c e s s i o n  o f  s e r i o u s  back and spent the next two Boston Red Sox starting pitcher Josh Beckett works out at the  
up for what went wrong, just  injuries  to  key players left  months on the disabled list. team’s training facility in Fort Myers, Fla.  
f o c u s i n g  o n  d o i n g  t h i n g s  the Red Sox out of the play­ “The back injury happened  
right.  offs with an 89-73 record.  at  Yankee Stadium  on  that  noticed. He thought Beckett  h ap p e n e d l a s t y e a r  t o  o u r  
“ L i k e m y d a d s a i d ,  ‘ J u s t  “I don’t know if embarrass- rainy day that we just had to  w as  trying  to  ma ke up for  advantage.”  
throw the rearview mirror  i n g ’s  t h e  r i g h t w o r d , b u t ,  get that game in on,” Beckett  poor outings by trying to do  Beckett made his biggest  
a w a y  b e c a u s e  y o u  c a n ’t  y e a h ,  y o u ’ r e  n o t  h a p p y, ”  said with  a  tone of displeas­ too much too quickly.  splash in his second full sea- 
change what’s already hap- Beckett said. “It’s not a good  u r e  t h a t  t h e  g a m e  w a s  “I think he tried too hard at  s o n  i n  2 0 0 3  w h e n  h e  w a s  
p e n e d , ’ ”  h e  s a i d  Tu e s d a y  f e e lin g l e a vin g t h e  s e a s on  played in those conditions.  times last year and it kind of  na me d MVP of the Fl ori da  
after Boston’s first official  k no w i ng t ha t th i n g s c o u l d  B u t  h i s  p r o b l e m s b e g a n  g a n g e d  u p  o n  h i m  a f t e r  a  Marlins’ World Series victory  
w o r k o u t  f o r  p i t c h e r s  a n d  h a v e  b e e n  b e t t e r  f o r  t h e  even before the season.  while,” Francona said. “It got  o v e r  t h e  Ya n k e e s .  I n  t h e  
catchers. “I’m  not  trying to  w h o l e  t e a m  i f  y o u  w o u l d  “ I got sic k du ring s pring  to be too much and it was so  decisive Game 6, he allowed  
change last year. I’m trying  have just done your part.”  training,” he said. “I was try- hard  or  him. It shouldn’t be  five hits in  a  2-0 complete- 
to have the best 2011 I  can  H e  s t r u g g l e d  f r o m  t h e  ing to catch up then and then  t h a t  t o u g h b u t , a g a i n ,  h e  game win.  
and put this team in position  beginning.  w h e n  I  f e l t  l i k e  I  d i d  g e t  fought  some  things physical- But he had three stints  on  
to do what we all think we’re  In his fifth straight opening  caught up then I felt like I  ly. He  never  was  able to get  the disabled list in 2004, two  
capable of doing. And that’s  d ay st art , Bec ke tt allowe d  still had to do more.”  o n  a  r o l l .  N o w  h e ’s  g o t  a  i n  2 0 0 5  a n d  t w o  m o r e  i n  
w i n n i n g  a n o t h e r  Wo r l d  five  runs  in 4 2-3 innings in  Ma nager Terry Fra n c o n a  fresh start,  so  let’s  use  what  2008.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
If you have 3 quarters, 4 dimes, and There are two credit cards for every 4 pennies, you have $1.19. You also person in the United States.FOR RENT NOTICES have the largest amount of money 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't in coins without being able to make GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT go it alone. Notre Dame has many change for a dollar. In the average lifetime, a person will RENTAL: House for rent for gradua If you or someone you care about resources in place to assist you. If walk the equivalent of 5 times 
OFF-CAMPUS Housing. Best luxury tion/JPW/weddings,football, etc. you or someone you love needs around the equator. options at Dublin Village, Irish Perfect location-right next to the has been sexually assaulted, we confidential support or assistance, The most common name in the Crossings, Oak Hill and North new Eddy Street Commons-walk to please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. world is Mohammed. Shore Club. CES Property everything-safe family oriented can help. For more information, visit For more information, visit ND's The average person spends about 2 Management. Call 574-298-4206, street. Email nd-house@sbcglob website at: http://pregnancysup-years on the phone in a lifetime. www.cespm.info al.net for additional info and photos Notre Dames website: port@nd.edu The three best-known western 
names in China: Jesus Christ, http://csap.nd.edu Richard Nixon, and Elvis Presley. Children grow faster in the spring­time. ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— 
Wednesday, February 16, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
NFL 

Manning gets franchise tag 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — The Indianapolis Colts are keeping Peyton Manning — no matter what it costs. 
Manning, the only four-time MVP in league history, has been given the exclusive fran­chise tag, a move that could cost the Colts $23 million next season. Team owner Jim Irsay announced the decision Tuesday night on Twitter. 
“We have placed the fran­chise tag on Peyton while we continue to negotiate a long term deal,” Irsay wrote. 
The move is hardly a sur­prise. 
Last year, Irsay promised to make Manning the NFL’s highest-paid player. He has reiterated that position many times since then with one caveat — if the Colts couldn’t reach a new deal with Manning before free agency started they would use the franchise tag. 



The Colts did the same thing in 2004 before eventu­ally agreeing to a seven-year, $98 million deal. The Colts then pulled the tag. 
Irsay hasn’t backed down 
on either promise, and Manning, as he usually does, has remained silent about the contract. 
Three weeks ago, the Colts put their first formal proposal on the table. It was an offer Irsay and team president Bill Polian wanted to make last October, but Manning informed the team then, through his agent, that he did not want to start negotiating until after the season. 
The current offer is believed to be richer than the four-year, $72 million con­tract that New England quar­terback Tom Brady signed in September. Brady’s contract also included $48.5 million in guaranteed money, and Irsay has called that deal the stan­dard. 
“It’s not a normal negotia­tion, his legacy and our rela­tionship, it’s very unusual,” Irsay said last month. 
On Tuesday, Indy decided not to wait any longer to make its decision. 
By “tagging” Manning, no other team can negotiate with the Colts’ franchise quarter­back. 
How critical is Manning to the Colts’ success? 
In 13 seasons, he has bro­ken all the franchise’s career records for quarterbacks and has never missed a start. He’s taken Indy to the playoffs 11 times, captured seven AFC South titles in eight years, won two AFC championships, one Super Bowl title and a Super Bowl MVP Award. 
And the Colts won more regular-season games in the past decade (115) than any team in NFL history. 
The move does free up the Colts to work on other con­tracts before the collective bargaining agreement expires March 3. 
The list of their potential free agents includes running back Joseph Addai, kicker Adam Vinatie;Charlie Johnson, Manning’s blind side protector; Melvin Bullitt, a key backup at safety who is ready to start; starting line­backer Clint Session and starting defensive tackle Dan Muir. 
Irsay also has promised “significant” announcements in the coming weeks. 
But, of course, none would be bigger than giving Manning the richest deal in league history in what could be his final NFL contract. 
“It’s important,” Irsay said when asked about the impor­tance of reaching a new deal with Manning. 
“But it’s something that you don ’t totally control, so I think you have to be pre ­pared to work on your roster while you’ re doing that. That’s a big part of the equa­tion, but I think you have to be able and ready to shape your roster.” 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
No. 15 Wildcats escape Seton Hall on road 
Associated Press 

NEWARK, N.J. — James Bell made a name for himself Tuesday night. The reserve freshman guard more than doubled his season high with 21 points as No. 15 Villanova beat Seton Hall 60-57 in one of those games that won’t be rerun as a classic anytime soon. 
“A road win in the Big East. That’s the nicest thing I can say about that game,” Wildcats coach Jay Wright said after his team snapped a two-game losing streak with one of those performances that left a lot of people shak­ing their heads. “The Pitt game was one of the ugliest games ever (a 57-54 loss on Saturday) and so was this game and the common denominator was us. We just had to gut it out and our young guys played great.” 
One of the young guys played the best game of a freshman season that started late because of a leg surgery. 
The 6-foot-5 Bell, whose previous high was 10 points against Delaware and who scored a total of 31 points this season, became the offensive star for the Wildcats (20-6, 8-5), who committed 22 turnovers, three over their season high and double their season average. 
The Wildcats were without second-leading scorer Corey Stokes, who has missed two games with a turf toe injury, and there wasn’t a whole of offense coming from anyone but Bell. 
“He didn’t play all summer and all fall,” Wright said. “He couldn’t do anything. We shut him down in June and he couldn’t do anything until December, so he’s been working his way back. He’s been playing great in prac­tice but he gets tired very quickly. He really arrived tonight.” 
Bell had stress fractures in both tibias. He tried rest from June until September but the doctors decided on surgery. Rods were inserted into both legs on Sept. 8 to help the bones. He started practicing with his team in December. He saved them on Feb. 15. 
“I didn’t play for 6 months straight so it took some time,” Bell said of his return. “College basketball is a fast game. I was really frustrated but I knew I was doing every­thing for the right reason.” 
He was extremely modest about his 7-for-9 shooting performance that included making 4 of 6 from 3-point range. 
“I got an opportunity and it’s not that I stepped up but I was put in the right position to make plays,” he said. “These are shots we always take in our offense and they just happened to fall.” 
Jeremy Hazell had 25 points to lead the Pirates (11­15, 5-9) but he missed two shots in the final 13 seconds, the second a 3-point attempt to tie with 3 seconds to play. 
“They stepped up on the drive big. I tried to get it over them. I thought it was going down but it just rimmed off,” he said of his drive that could have tied the game with 13 seconds left. “The 3-pointer I thought that was going down but I left it a little short.” 
Villanova beat Seton Hall for the ninth straight time, a streak that dates to 2004, and this was the 100th meet­ing of the schools and the Wildcats own a 63-37 advan­tage. 
Corey Fisher had 12 points for Villanova and Antonio Pena had 10 points and 12 rebounds. 
Villanova turned the ball almost every way possible, from passes off teammates’ legs to passes that reached the stands to offensive fouls and even two 35-second shot clock violations. 
“We’re playing more for­wards and (starting guards) Maalik (Wayns) and Fish got in foul trouble and they were sitting for long periods and Seton Hall has great quick­ness,” Wright said in explain­ing the turnovers. “They got rusty on the bench.” 
The Wildcats somehow managed to overcome all those mistakes and Bell, who came in averaging 1.8 points, was how. 
Jordan Theodore hit a jumper with 10:35 to play that brought Seton Hall with­in 45-43. Bell hit the first of his two second-half 3s to give the Wildcats a five-point lead, but Hazell hit one of his four 3s to make it 48-46. 
Bell’s next 3 gave the Wildcats a 54-46 lead with 
6:38 to go. Over the next 3:10 Villanova committed five turnovers, including four in as many possessions. 
Bell made three free throws with 5:34 left to give Villanova a 57-48 lead. Seton Hall took advantage of the Wildcats’ miscues to go on a 7-0 run and was within 57­55 with 2:14 to play. 
After Bell’s layup and two free throws by Herb Pope of Seton Hall, it was again a 2­point game with 1:12 to play. 
With 40 seconds left Villanova turned it over again, this time when Fisher dribbled the ball off his leg right in front of Wright. 
Hazell missed a drive after that turnover and Antonio Pena made one of two free throws with 13 seconds left. 
Hazell’s 3 to tie was off the rim and the Pirates lost for the third time in four games. 
“James Bell killed us. He hit some tough shots,” Seton Hall coach Kevin Willard said. “We’re just not getting a break, we’re not getting a bounce.” 
Hazell finished 9 of 23 from the field and he made four of 17 3-point attempts. The Pirates, who came into the game last in the Big East in 3-point shooting at 29 per­cent, were 4 of 26 from beyond the arc. 
“We’re shooting too many 3s at home and I think that is one of our biggest issues,” Willard said. 
Herb Pope, who had seven points in a foul-plagued 29 minutes for the Pirates, couldn’t get over that they couldn’t beat a team that committed 22 turnovers. 
“They gave us a chance to steal the game and we gave them a chance to steal it right back,” he said. 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 16, 2011 
to turnovers, averaging a stopping the contest. dodging most of the punches earned the win by the referee defense and into his face, while league-worst -6.05 turnover 
BellesGriffn 

margin per game. continued from page 13 Bill “Italian Stallion” Straccia some body blows early in the 
thrown at him. Pavlov landed 

continued from page 16 The Bulldogs are led by def. Joe “Van the Man” second, but Yi was able to 
junior forward Kellee Vanderberg absorb most of them and fire 
MIAA tournament play,” Wonders, who at 8.3 points Jack “Rabbit” Johnson def. Straccia used punishing body back with flurries of his own. 
Belles coach Jennifer per game and six rebounds James “The Bull” Durham shots to score points off the The referee was forced to stop 
Henley said after the Albion per game, leads the team in Both fighters came out on the skinnier Vanderberg in the first the fight early in the third, and 
both marks. defensive, though Durham was round and never looked back. Yi was declared the winner, game. 
This will be the Belles’ able to connect with some Straccia, an off-campus senior, ending the long first day of The Belles entered the 
game with four players last home game and second early body blows. Durham dominated the second round as preliminaries. 
averaging double figures in to last regular season game attempted to keep his momen-well, pushing Vanderberg, a 
points – junior forward before postseason play. tum going into the second Duncan sophomore, against James Hasson def. Daniel 
Jessica Centa, Mahoney, The Belles will be playing round by using his long the ropes and landing a series Colston 
junior guard Maggie Ronan in their second consecutive wingspan, but was unable to of blows that forced him into In a fight that was remark-
and junior forward Kelley Pink Zone game, a nation-land many of his attempts. clinches on numerous occa-ably even from the outset, both 
Murphy. Murphy is also sec-wide initiative across Johnson kept things close and sions. The third was more of Hasson and Colston landed 
women’s basketball aimed continued to pummel Durham’s the same as Straccia, despite numerous blows in the first ond in the MIAA in 
aware-body inside. Johnson landed the Vanderberg’s best efforts, round. Hasson gained the rebounding, bringing down at raising not only 
9.5 boards down per game. ness about breast cancer several big right hooks in the took the fight by unanimous upper hand in the second 
Saint Mary’s will look to but also donations to the final round, which propelled decision. round, connecting on multiple 
take advantage of Albion’s Kay Yow Cancer Fund. him to victory by unanimous punches while avoiding almost 
somewhat shaky offense to The Belles aim for a decision. Pat Handy def. Steve Bonomo all those from Colston. In the 
tie their record for wins in a record-tying win tonight at Handy came out in the first third and final round, Hasson 
season. The Bulldogs rank 7:30 p.m. at Angela Athletic Matt “Don’t Tell My Mom” round with defensive tactics furthered his advantage as 
eighth (out of nine) in the Facility. Stolze def. Tom “Atom Bomb” that served him well early, but Colston was forced to remain 
MIAA in scoring, averaging Reilly he abandoned that technique on the defensive for the entire 
just 50.1 points per game. Contact Matthew DeFranks at The senior Stolze bested jun-in the second. This change in round, unable to mount any 
Their offense is also prone mdefrank@nd.edu ior Reilly in one of the most tactics proved to be the differ-sort of offense. This was exciting fights of the day. Stolze ence as he came out brawling enough to give Hasson the vic­drew blood on Reilly’s face in the second, landing punch tory by split decision. with one of his first punches, after punch on the bewildered but Reilly recovered and Bonomo. The junior from Christopher “Stud” Sarkis v. knocked down Stolze later in Siegfried continued this strate-Karl “The Woodsplitter” the round. In the second gy in the third round, punching Kingery round, Stolze was able to almost wildly at times, but it Sarkis, a sophomore from dodge many of his opponent’s was enough to earn him the Fisher, had the upper hand in punches and counter with win by unanimous decision. this fight this fight from the some jabs of his own while opening bell. Kingery, an off­Reilly’s defense was down. 198 Pounds campus senior, was assaulted After a stop to clean his face from all sides by the powerful early in the third round, Reilly Daniel Hyzak def. Alex Boll Sarkis despite his best efforts recovered and chased Stolze Hyzak took control from the to go blow-for-blow. Sarkis around the ring, knocking him opening bell, using his longer landed a big right hook in the into the ropes as the final bell wingspan to pummel Boll, first round in addition to multi-rang. In the end, though, Stolze eventually knocking him to the ple smaller combinations. In was victorious in a unanimous ground late in the first round. the second, Kingery walked decision. The law student continued to into a massive right hook from 
dominate early in the second, Sarkis and hit the mat hard. Tim “The Brick” Wallace def. but Boll responded late with The referee stopped the match Nick Donnelly several sharp jabs of his own. thirty seconds into the second 
Senior Tim Wallace claimed Both fighters appeared to tire round, giving a Sarkis a win by the last quarterfinal berth in in the final round, but Boll the referee stopping the con-the 192-pound bracket over went for the win late with sev-test. freshman Nick Donnelly. eral strong punches before the Wallace dominated early, land-final bell. The junior’s late Jordan Smith def. Robert ing several combos before both effort was nearly enough, but “The Sledge” Hammer fighters settled in defensively. Hyzak prevailed in a split deci-Both boxers came out with The second round began as a sion. remarkable intensity in the melee, as both fighters threw first round as Smith proved relentless hooks with no regard Evan “Sting” Wray def. Alex slightly more aggressive, while for defense. Towards the end of “The Ogre” Szymborski Hammer held his own. Smith the round both boxers slowed Both fighters came out was the patient aggressor in the pace, and the older Wallace aggressively, with the left hand the second round, carefully fol-took control. Donnelly came jab of Wray holding off the lowing Hammer around the out strong in the final round, heavy combos of Szymborski in ring and landing the majority and was able to force Wallace an evenly contested first round. of good blows, including a into a corner and land some The pace slowed in the second sharp right to the face that heavy jabs. Despite that final round, as Wray squeezed in stunned Hammer midway push, it was Wallace who won some quick jabs between the through the round. In the third by unanimous decision. freshman’s strong handed and final round, Hammer came 
punches. Both fighters out with life, absorbing the Mike “The Bringer of Rain” appeared to fatigue in the final surgical jabs of Smith and Doran def. David “El Diablo” round, and neither was able to evening up the match, but it Diaz keep up much of a defense as would be Smith who prevailed 
Doran, an off-campus senior, they swapped vicious, high by unanimous decision. controlled the bout from the percentage jabs. In the end, bell, proving too fast and pow-the junior was the last man Eric “What the” Frick def. erful for Diaz. Doran landed standing, as Wray won by Matt “Welcome to the some strong blows in the first unanimous decision. Thunderdome” Kearney round including multiple com-In a highly anticipated binations despite Diaz’s game Brian “Caesar” Salat def. match-up that lived up to its efforts. Doran came out even David “Tough Actin’” Thaxton billing, both Frick and Kearney stronger in the second, pinning Both fighters began the fight came out hard in the first Diaz against the ropes and with great energy, swapping a round, throwing punch after pummeling his body with flurry of early punches. The resounding punch at the other punches, fatiguing the already-two settled in later in the open-with each connecting on his weary freshman. Finally, a ing round, as both tried to stay fair share. Frick, however, series of combinations to the low and attack their opponent’s landed a number of massive Diaz’s head forced the referee body. Salat was able to distin-combinations that Kearney was to stop the fight thirty seconds guish himself in the second unable to escape and finally into the second round, giving round by keeping himself at a struck a concussive right hook Doran the win by the referee distance and landing several that stunned the off-campus stopping the contest. blows to his opponents face. senior. The fight was stopped 
The fight was won in third after the first round, giving Alex “Mac Attack” round, where Salat’s high ener-Frick a victory by the referee Macomber def. Aaron O’Dell gy level allowed him to best a stopping the contest. 
Macomber came out with a fatigued Thaxton. The sopho­fury in the first round. The more won in a unanimous deci-Contact Andrew Gastelum at Siegfried senior landed combi-sion. agastel1@nd.edu, Matthew nations right off the bat and DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu, quickly had his opponent Daniel Yi def. Anthony “Takes Victoria Jacobsen at pinned on the ropes in the cor-a Tumble” Pavlov vjacobse@nd.edu, Kelsey ner. In the midst of a flurry of Freshman Daniel Yi easily Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu, blows, Macomber unleashed a defeated junior Anthony Pavlov Matt Unger at right to the body of O’Dell that to win the last match of the munger3@nd.edu, Sam Gans at felled the law student. O’Dell day. Yi showed his agility in the sgans@nd.edu, Jack Hefferon at stayed on the mat for a few first round, landing sharp jabs wheffero@nd.edu and Conor minutes, and Macomber directly through Pavlov’s Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 



Wednesday, February 16, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
punches to Grasberger’s face. The sophomore continued where 
Bouts 

he left off in the second round continued from page 16 with more jabs until the referee delayed the fight for medical 
punches. Both fighters staff to attend to junior fatigued in the third round, and Grasberger’s nose. After the fewer punches were thrown fight resumed, Manfreda contin­than the first two rounds. Skelly ued to dominate with multiple landed a few towards the end, blows to his opponent’s body and however, to gain full control of face, resulting in the judges giv­the match, and win unanimous-ing him the victory in a unani­ly. mous decision. 
Kevin Kray def. Grant “The Joseph “Send in the Troll” Grantelope” Erickson Garrity def. Ryan “Rhino” 
Erickson attempted to land a Murphy few punches early, but Kray The intra-hall bout between used agility and footwork to the two juniors from Dillon Hall avoid them. Late in the first turned in Garrity’s favor in the round, Kray landed a few jabs second round, when he pinned and uppercuts to take the lead. Murphy against the ropes and Both seniors exchanged jabs landed multiple face and body early in the second round. In the shots. While Murphy entered the middle of the round, the match third round aggressively, Garrity was stopped briefly due to a cut quickly suppressed any notion of Erickson received on his face. a comeback. He frustrated his Kray then landed another big opponent with as many as ten punch later in the round. The jabs at a time to the head and match was stopped again early body, leaving no time for count-in the third round after Erickson er-blows. Garrity earned the vic­began bleeding again. The ref-tory in a unanimous decision. late in the round, and fought his several occasions. Enzweiler Paape came out strong in the eree stopped the match a third way back into contention. In the continued to control the fight in first round and never looked time late in the third round so 176 Pounds final round, Sweeney was able to the second round, practically back. Paape, a sophomore from the trainer could again attend to slow down Aguirre and landed sprinting after Arago and pounc-Sorin College, held a distinct Erickson just before the bell, and Alphonse Harding def. Michael some heavy blows as the fight ing on him when he arrived. height advantage over the fresh-Kray earned the unanimous Rice concluded. That late surge Arago tried to win the fight back man McMurtrie and used it to decision. The freshman Harding took proved to be enough, as in the third and came out jab-his advantage from the first bell, 
control early, landing numerous Sweeney won by split decision. bing with a singular focus on the landing numerous huge punches Nick Severyn def. Israel “The big punches at the beginning of offensive. He was able to land in the first. In the second and Sugar” Peck the first round on fellow first-Giacomo Minafra def. Lon “El several big shots to Enzweiler’s third rounds, McMurtrie contin-
The fight began slowly as both year Rice. The referee had to Gingar” Gold head, but the late rally wasn’t ued to wear down, allowing fighters took a defensive stop the fight twice in the first Minafra, a junior southpaw enough, as Enzweiler won in a Paape to unleash multiple-punch approach. The senior Severyn round to check on Rice, though from Zahm House, began the unanimous decision. combinations that left little landed a few jabs late in the he connected on a few punches bout as a counter-puncher and doubt in the unanimous deci­round, and the grad student against Harding near the end of ended it as a finisher. Gold came Rich “Spooner” Neville def. sion. Peck countered with a few the round. In the second round, out aggressively in the first Henry “Hank the Tank” Duden punches. The second round was however, Harding dominated, round, and Minafra countered to Both freshmen came out cau-Tyler “Tuna” Plantz def. David more intense as Severyn came eventually causing the referee to perfection, landing left after tiously in the opening round and Fosselman out highly aggressive, landing stop the match 37 seconds into hard left to the head of the fifth-attempted to feel each other out Both fighters came out brawl-many punches. Peck rose well to the round and earned the win by year architecture student. Gold by trading a few jabs. The sec-ing in the first round and set the the challenge, and each knocked the referee stopping the contest. fought admirably, but the ond round was much more tone for the entire fight from the the other against the ropes stronger Minafra proved too eventful, as Duden came out fir-first bell. Both fighters landed twice. Severyn, however, took Brian “Half Man, Half Hair” much, unleashing a lethal com-ing and put Neville on the run. good blows in an exciting first control in the third round and O’Connor def. Corey Scott bination of blows to start the Duden was able to force his round. The second round was landed a big punch on Peck near The fight commenced with second round, and he earned the opponent into the corner, but more reserved at the start but the end of the fight, cementing O’Connor delivering most of the win 30 seconds into the round Neville recovered and landed picked up towards the end as the unanimous decision. punches in the first round. It by the referee ending the con-some huge hooks at the end of Plantz landed a series of combi­
quickly became evenly contest-test. the round. The final round was a nations with Fosselman backed Daniel “The Conquistador” ed, however, when the junior free-for-all, as both fighters up against the ropes. The third Balcarcel def. Tyler “ Raging Scott finished the first round Paul “Paul from the Hall” traded blows with little regard round was appreciably slower as Bull” Thomas landing shots to his senior oppo-Barron def. Ali “I Thought This for defense. In the end, Neville both fighters grew tired, and 
Balcarcel took control of the nent’s head and continued the was Cricket Club” Ahmed emerged victorious in a unani-although Fosselman landed a fight early in the first round with pounding in the second round. In a battle of two freshmen, mous decision. number of punches, Plantz’s tor-as many as seven jabs at a time The fight was decided in the Barron emerged victorious in a rent in the second round proved to Thomas’ face. The sophomore third round, with O’Connor fight that hung in the balance Tom “Son of Ted” Carnevale too much to overcome, as he also darted away from the fresh-regaining his composure and into the final round. The two def. Mike Browder won by split decision. man Thomas’ counter-blows. fending off a mid-round surge by came out brawling in the first In the final preliminary in the The start of the second round Scott to earn an edge in the round as the first 30 seconds 182-pound weight class, Rob “All Gloves No Love” was a repeat of first, with number of shots delivered. saw both fighters throwing Carnevale came out strong and Cimino def. John “The Eight Balcarcel’s jabs overwhelming O’Connor was the winner by punches constantly. They soon forced the Sorin senior around Man” Heinrich Thomas. While Thomas started unanimous decision. tired, however, and by the sec-the ring with quick jabs. Heinrich, a senior from the final round with some suc-ond round the fighting was Browder found his footing in the Duncan, attempted to utilize a cess in connecting on blows to Adrian “Yo Adrian” Moreno def. noticeably sloppier with fewer second round though and swung distinct height advantage over his opponent’s head, the sopho-Thomas “The Studman” punches landed all around. hard, connecting on several the smaller Cimino, an off-cam­more never lost control. Stedman Barron recovered quickly and punches before the junior could pus law student, in the first Balcarcel emerged victorious in Another intra-hall showdown came out with renewed intensity tie him up. Carnevale recovered round as both fighters looked a unanimous decision. between Dillon juniors proved in the third and used his strong in the third round, and was able fidgety. They danced around the 
more decisive than the first as left jab to defeat Ahmed, eventu-to come in close to throw several ring early, and it seemed as Daniel “Dan Dan Revolution” Moreno took control of the fight ally triumphing by unanimous body blows under Browder’s though neither wanted to Chapman def. Gerrit “Son of in the first round. Moreno’s decision. defenses. That effort gave engage the other fighter. Hob” Hobson quick jabs to the face put Carnevale the win in a unani-Heinrich, however, proved to be 
One of the more even prelimi-Stedman on defense, and his 182 Pounds mous decision. the aggressor throughout the nary round matches started with aggression carried into the sec-first round and carried that into the junior Chapman gaining a ond round. The fight was Leo “Release the River” Mike “Nobody Puts Baby in a the second as Cimino was forced slight edge in the number of delayed when Stedman’s nose DiPiero def. Tim Kaiser Corner” Urciuoli def. Erik “Big to counterpunch to perfection. blows to the freshman Hobson’s began spewing blood in the sec-DiPiero took control early, Country” VanEperen The third round saw both come face while both fighters tried to ond round. It subsequently using his height and wingspan to In a classic battle of length out hard yet clearly fatigued. discern the other’s style. In the ended early in the third round keep control of Kaiser through-versus power, power came out Cimino, however, emerged victo­second round, the freshman after Moreno’s powerful left-out the opening round. Kaiser victorious as Urciuoli, an off-rious by unanimous decision. Hobson took control, twice lead-right combo to the head left answered the bell with energy in campus senior, defeated ing his junior opponent into the medical staff attending to the second round, landing sever-VanEperen, a Keough Hall soph-192 Pounds ropes and landing a left-right Stedman’s nose and Moreno won al punches before DiPiero once omore. From the outset of the combo jab move on him. by the referee stopping the con-again took control and went to bout, VanEperen attempted to Pat “Brian” Griffin def. Dan Chapman came through in the test. work. The third round was all use his superior height and “Miami Vice” Barrera third round to earn a narrow DiPiero’s, as the sophomore reach to keep Urciuoli at bay. Griffin jabbed strongly from victory by initiating the round Joseph “Bag o’ Donuts” hopped around his opponent, VanEperen danced all over the the opening bell, landing several with multiple jabs to his oppo-Sweeney def. Jose “Can You jabbing occasionally to keep the ring, counterpunching Urciuoli punches and keeping Barrera on nent’s head. The judges awarded See” Aguirre fatigued Kaiser at bay. The at every opportunity. The senior, the run. Barrera took back con-Chapman victory in a split deci-The two fighters felt each judges gave the victory to however, found success in get-trol in the second round with an sion. other out early, swapping quick DiPiero in a unanimous decision. ting inside the reach of aggressive volley of sweeping 
flurries of punches. Towards the VanEperen and landed a series punches. Both fighters seemed Robert “I’m All Jacked Up on end of the first round, Aguirre Matt Enzweiler def. Keith “El of torrid combinations to the to fatigue late in the second Mountain Dew” Manfreda def. landed a couple of strong com-Gringo Filipino” Arago sophomore’s head and body that round, but Griffin came back in Nick “Gimme Some Fries with bos, and appeared to take the Enzweiler took control from won him the fight by unanimous the third round on the offensive That” Grasberger upper hand. Aguirre took that the start, launching several com-decision. and ended the fight with a final 
Throughout most of the first momentum into the second binations and immediately put-combo for the judges. The late round, the fight looked like an round, overwhelming Sweeney ting Arago on the run. Arago, a William “The Captain” Paape heroics worked as Griffin won by even match before Manfreda as soon as the bell rang. law student, was forced to grab def. Dan “The Throwaway” closed with an onslaught of Sweeney was able to settle in and tie up the sophomore on McMurtrie see GRIFFIN/page 12 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 16, 2011 
Swim 
continued from page 16 
titles helps give us confidence going into the meet.” senior Samantha Maxwell said. “Each one of those champi­onships has a story behind it, has a different set of circum­stances leading up to it, and reminds us that we are carry­ing on a tradition. To be able to continue that tradition would be awesome and a lot of fun for our girls,” 
Senior Katie Casey agreed that keeping the streak alive was strong motivation for the team. 
“We’ve won 14 titles in a row, so we want to win anoth­er and make it 15,” Casey said. 
Maxwell said that the pres­sure of maintaining such a long title run will not affect the team’s performance. 
“I think it is in the back of our minds, but at the same time our goal is to qualify girls for the NCAA champi­
onships,” Maxwell said. “Winning Big East is just a stepping stone to doing that, but it isn't the only way.” 
Though the Irish expect to be competitive in every event, they will face stiff competi­tion, especially from Louisville, Villanova and West Virginia. Nagging injuries have hampered several team members this season, but all swimmers are healthy enough to compete this week. 
Notre Dame heads into the swimming portion of the com­petition with the lead cour­tesy of the Irish divers, who competed this past weekend. Sophomore Jenny Chiang won the 3-meter board competi­tion for the second year in a row and finished second in the 1-meter dive, while senior Heidi Grossman took third in the 1-meter and fourth in the 3-meter competition. 
Maxwell, who was named the Most Outstanding Swimmer of last year’s Big East championships, hopes to see her teammates match her accomplishments at this year’s meet. 
“I'm excited to see what's to come this year, and I’m espe­cially confident in my team­mates and their abilities to perform at a level deserving of the same award,” Maxwell said. “Our team has become much more mature and grown a lot in their abilities.” 
The meet will begin on Feb. 16 at the University of Louisville’s Wright Natatorium and conclude on Feb. 19. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
Welsh 
continued from page 16 

the 1995-96 season and has finished in the top four the conference championships 13 consecutive years. 
The championships stretch over four days with prelimi­nary races starting at 10 a.m. each day and finals beginning at 6 p.m. 
“There’s seven swimming sections left, we want to swim fast in all seven,” Welsh said. “Getting seven where you want them is a hard thing to do. So we know it’s a challenge.” 
Today, the 800-yard freestyle relay and 200-yard medley relay finals will take place. 
Thursday, fans will see the 500-yard freestyle, the 200­yard individual medley, the 200-yard freestyle relay and the 50-yard freestyle finals. 
Friday will host the 400-yard individual medley, 100-yard butterfly, 200-yard freestyle, 100-yard breaststroke, and 100-yard backstroke, and 400­yard medley relay finals. 
Saturday, there is a senior recognition ceremony shortly before the finals kick off. Saturday’s finals are the 1,650­yard freestyle, the 200-yard backstroke, 100-yard freestyle, 200-yard breaststroke, 200­yard butterfly, and 400-yard freestyle relay. 
It is a potentially grueling four days, but Welsh is supremely confident in his team. 
“If you look at the way the guys have been training, it’s been very consistent all year long,” Welsh said. “The prepa­ration on their part has been excellent.” 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Ohio State rebounds after loss with 71-61 victory over Michigan State 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — William Buford scored 23 points and Aaron Craft had a hand in two critical plays down the stretch to lead No. 
2 Ohio State to  a  71-61 win  
o v e r  M i c h i g a n  S t a t e  o n  
Tuesday night.  

It was a hard-fought strug­gle for the Buckeyes (25-1, 12-1 Big Ten), playing for the first time since having their unbeaten season ended with a 61-57 loss at Wisconsin on Saturday. 
Jon Diebler and David Lighty each had 12 points. Jared Sullinger, averaging 18 points and 10 rebounds, was limited to 11 and 2. Craft, a freshman substitute point guard, had seven points, four assists, four steals and three rebounds. 
Kalin Lucas led the Spartans (14-11, 6-7) with 14 points, while Adreian Payne and Draymond Green each had 10. 
The Buckeyes finished the game on an 18-10 run to pull away. 
The game turned the game with two quick defensive stops. 
With the Buckeyes hanging on to a 45-44 lead, Buford stepped in front of a bad pass by Lucas and went coast to coast for the basket. The next time down the floor, Craft forced Lucas to give the ball up in the backcourt, leading to two free throws by Diebler. After the Spartans scored a second -chance bucket, Diebler flipped in a line-drive 3 from the top of the key for a 52-46 lead. 
A capacity crowd of 18,809 roared its approval. 
During one span, the Spartans had turnovers on four of five possessions. 
Now with the lead, the Buckeyes relied on Buford. 
After Michigan State had cut it to 53-51, Buford hit consecutive jumpers — the first a 3 from the left wing and the second a stop-and­pop jumper from 15 feet to make it 58-51. 
Craft came up with a big effort play soon after. 
As the ball was going out of bounds under the Michigan State basket, center Garrick Sherman turned and fired it down the court. For an instance no one reacted. But then Craft sped the length of the floor, corralled the ball and hit a twisting reverse layup while being fouled. He completed the three -point play. 
Craft also figured in anoth­er pivotal play. With the Buckeyes on top 66-59, he had a steal and was fouled by Green at the other end with 
1:42 left. Green was then assessed a technical foul. Craft stepped to the line and hit three of the four shots to swell the lead to 69-59, the biggest of the game for either team to that point. 
Moments later, Ohio State fans taunted the Spartans — who have made it to the Final Four in six of the last 12 sea­sons — with a cheer of “N-I­T! N-I-T!” 


The victory extended Ohio State’s home winning streak to 18. In coach Thad Matta’s seven seasons, they are 102­2 against unranked teams in Columbus. 
Diebler hit two 3-pointers to move into a tie for second with Michigan State’s Shawn Respert, one back of Big Ten career 3-point leader Pete Lisicky of Penn State, who had 332. 
Ohio State led 35 -34 at halftime of a wild, physical and stressful first half. There were nine ties and 11 lead changes, with both teams saddled by foul trouble to key personnel. Six players had two fouls apiece, four of them Spartans. 



Wednesday, February 16, 2011 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


HENRI ARNOLD

LAURA MCGINN 
JUMBLE

TUESDAY VARIETY SHOW 
MIKE ARGIRION 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Wednesday, February 16, 2011 page 16 
FOOTBALL 

Montana to transfer as Irish look ahead toward spring practice 
Observer Staff Report 
Spring practice doesn’t begin until March 23, but the first roster shakeup of the spring season has already 
occurred. Notre Dame announced Tuesday that jun­ior quarterback Nate Montana had left the Irish in a transfer to the University of Montana, where he is enrolled for the spring semes­ter. 
“After much discussion with Nate regarding his future with our football program, Nate decided it was in his best interests to leave Notre Dame and pursue opportuni­ties at a different school,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “I enjoyed working with Nate and he was a valuable mem­ber of his team this past sea­son. I wish him and his family all the best.” 
Montana saw limited play­ing time in 2010 as part of a competition to back up junior quarterback Dayne Crist. Montana saw his most exten­sive action against Michigan, when Crist missed much of the first half due to a head injury; he split time in that game with freshman Tommy Rees. 
Rees would eventually take over as starting quarterback after Crist’s season was ended by a knee injury. Montana saw little playing time in the second half of the season despite entering the fall as the second quarterback on the depth chart behind Crist. 
By transferring to a Football Championship Subdivision school (FCS) rather than a Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) school, Montana will be able to immediately compete for playing time rather than sit out a year and lose a year 
of eligibility due to NCAA transfer rules. 
Crist and Rees will again compete for the starting posi­tion during spring practice, which will run four days a week (Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday) from March 23 through the 82nd 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Fight Night is back 
Bengal Bouts returned to Joyce Center Sunday 
By ANDREW GASTELUM, MATTHEW DeFRANKS, VICTORIA JACOBSEN, KELSEY MANNING, MATT UNGER, SAM GANS, JACK HEFFERON and CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writers 
170 Pounds 
Connor “The Skeletor” Skelly def. Sukesh “Cosmic Tiger” Shekar 
The grad-student Shekar knocked the junior Skelly back into a corner with a few early haymakers. Shekar tired as the round went on, however, as Skelly landed many jabs and uppercuts. Both fighters landed many jabs, combinations, and uppercuts in the first 15 seconds of the second round. Skelly took control near the end of the round, as the referee had to check on Shekar after a few 
see BOUTS/page 13 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles get ready for Adrian 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
After taking a road game at Albion over the weekend, Saint Mary’s continues its siz­zling streak to finish the sea­son and will look to stay hot against visiting Adrian (7-15, 4-11 MIAA). The Belles (16­7, 9-5) have won their last two games and seven of their previous nine. 
On Jan. 15, Saint Mary’s traveled to Albion and came away with a 75 -56 win behind a balanced team effort that saw five players in double figures. Junior guard Patsy Mahoney led the Belles, who led throughout the game, with 19 points. 
“At this point in the season, we just want to be playing 
our best basketball as we prepare to finish out the reg­ular season and head into 
see BELLES/page 12 

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Irish look to finish strong 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
Every conference has a defending champion, but it’s not very often that a team competes for a 15th consecu­tive title. Yet that is what the Notre Dame swimmers will attempt as they head to Louisville for the swimming portion of the Big East cham­pionships. 
The impressive streak of Big East conference champi­onship victories is a source of motivation and confidence for the Irish (5-7), who currently hold the Big East record for most consecutive titles in any sport. 
“Holding 14 consecutive 
see SWIM/page 14 


Blue -Gold Game, which is scheduled for Saturday, April 16. 
The five recruits who enrolled early — kicker Kyle Brindza, quarterback Everett Golson, and defensive ends Brad Carrico, Aaron Lynch, and Ishaq Williams — will participate in spring practice as their first formal experi­ence with the Irish. The rest of the recruiting class will report for summer camp in June after they graduate high school. 

MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Big East title meet is final hurdle of season 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 

Coming off a first-place per­formance in the diving portion of the event, Notre Dame looks to capture a Big East champi­onship as it face the confer­ence’s best in Louisville, Ky., starting today. 
Capturing a share of the lead in diving is significant for the Irish moving into the swim­ming portion, which begins today. 
Irish senior Eric Lex was named Big East Diver of the Year and Caiming Xie was named Big East Diving Coach of the Year. 
“They just did a great job,” Irish coach Tim Welsh said. “We’re going in with a lead, and that’s a great thing.” 
Welsh has been pleased with his team’s production this entire season, and the Big East championships are a chance to prove its mettle again. 
“This team has been a real joy,” Welsh said. “It’s had ener­gy, it’s had spirit, it’s had camaraderie, it’s has enthusi­asm and at the same time, it has gotten faster meet after meet.” 
The Irish finished second last season after winning titles in 2005, 2006, 2008 and 2009. Notre Dame has only been a member of the Big East since 
see WELSH/page 14 





