the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Dayne sticks to charity 
By VICTORIA MORENO 
News Writer 
Activities at Rolfs Sports Recreation Center were in full force Friday, but Center Court One was temporarily 
out of commission. Irish quarterback Dayne Crist was taped to the east wall with purple, pink, blue and even cheetah tape. 
“Donate to Duct Tape Dayne” was the hook that drew Notre Dame students, faculty and staff to Rolfs Sports Recreation Center to a fundraiser for the American Cancer Society’s Relay for Life event. RecSports partnered with Relay for Life to raise both awareness and funding for the event. 
“I wanted to do something truly different, ” Lana 
see RELAY/page 4 

Students dance to raise funds 
By BRIDGET MEADE 
News Writer 
Dedicated students spent 12 hours on their feet to benefit Riley’s Children’s Hospital Saturday at the Saint Mary’s College-Notre Dame Dance Marathon, held from noon to midnight at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Dance Marathon President Katie Fadden said more than 500 Saint Mary’s, Notre Dame and Holy Cross students and community members attended the event. Families of children who are treated by Riley’s Children’s Hospital also attended and were invited to speak about their experiences with Riley’s. 
“We had eight different fami­lies speak throughout the night,” she said. “Hearing the families’ stories is a great way to inspire the participants and also to 
see DANCE/page 5 


Student competition to aid camp 
Bookstore Basketball Tournament to benefit the Jumpball Basketball Programme in Jamaica 

“[Kingston, Jamaica, where the main camp is held,] is very different from what you think of when you think of Jamaica,” Sutcliffe said. “It’s a very large third-world city. It’s very poor with extremely high crime rates. Many kids come from these back ­grounds. When school is out, many kids don’t have any­thing to do. This camp gives them an activity. Parents and kids can come by and know they can have a great time.” 
The Programme was found­ed in the summer of 1995 from funds collected by the Alumni Club of Jamaica, and it had a little more than 100 children participate, Sutcliffe said. He was volunteering in Kingston as a teacher when 
see BOOKSTORE/page 5 




Bouts documentary hits silver screen 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
After nearly three years of production, the final cut of “Strong Bodies Fight” made its Midwest premiere at Notre Dame Saturday. 
The documentary film, which highlights the rela­tionship between Notre Dame’s storied Bengal Bouts and the Holy Cross missions they support in Bangladesh, originally premiered in its “rough cut” form in November 2009. Since then, its creators have edited and perfected the film into the final product that was shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, said Pat Ryan, a 2008 graduate and associate producer of the film. 
“In any project you work on, you look at it closer and find things to focus on,” Ryan said. “In two hours of footage and interviews, the overall message sometimes gets out of context, so we had to think about that.” 
Ryan said the bulk of the film has not changed, but such elements as color and sound have been improved. 
“Mark [Weber, producer and editor of the film] did a 
see BENGAL/page 5 




By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Soon the sound of bouncing basketballs and cheers will sound around campus with the annual Bookstore Basketball Tournament dur­ing the month of April, but organizers wanted partici­pants to know the event is about much more than the 5­on-5 games on the court. 
The annual tournament benefits the Jumpball Basketball Programme, a free basketball day camp for chil­dren held in Jamaica, Programme co-director and co -founder Chad Sutcliffe said. Sutcliffe and the other founder, Bill Maloney, are 1995 graduates of Notre Dame. 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER OIS extends deadlines page 3  Viewpoint page 8  Super Mash Bros. preform at Legends page 10  Mens Basketball prevails page 20 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, March 7, 2011 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Meaghan Veselik Nicole Toczauer Matthew Robison Anna Boarini Jack Hefferon 
Graphics Scene 
Melissa Kaduck Ankur Chawla 
Photo Viewpoint 
Suzanna Pratt Ren Brauweiler 
CORRECTIONS 

A Feb. 23 article, "Week analyzes college 'hook-up culture,''' misidentified the number of sexual assaults reported on campus this year. Five assaults have been reported during the 2010-2011 academic year. The Observer regrets this error. 


Random Word Association: 
Q: Egypt: “Sand castles” 
Q: 
Mass: “Gravity” 

Q: 
Fork: ”Spork” 

Questions 

Q: 
If you could found the first frat/sorority on campus, what would you call it?. Carolyn: “‘GEEK’, but with the Es as sigmas.” 



Q:What's the worst thing you've ever gotten in the mail?. Carolyn: “A facetious death threat.” 
Q: What do you hate. Carolyn: “Being put on the spot. And when people crack their joints.” 

Carolyn Hassett 
freshman Lewis 


SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer The finals of the 81st annual Bengal Bouts tournament was held Friday night in the Purcell Pavillion. All proceeds from the boxing tournament benefit the Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. 
OFFBEAT 
Sleepy Malaysian burlger caught in act 
MALAYSIA — A Malaysian court has slapped a five-year prison sentence on a burglar who was found sleeping in a house he broke into. 
Prosecutor Muhammad Ashraff Diah says the 35­year-old man broke into a house in southern Malaysia last week and spent the night sleeping there. The homeowner returned in the morning and called the authorities before the man woke up. 
The unemployed man tried to run away when the police arrived. They caught him and recovered several hundred ringgit (dollars) he had taken from the house. 

Muhammad Ashraff said Wednesday that the man pleaded guilty to a burglary charge this week. 
Woman impersonates mother in pension fraud 
FERNDALE, Wash.— Authorities say a Washington state woman suspected of pension fraud was arrested when she tried to open a bank account in her dead moth­er's name while disguised as her mother. 
Whatcom County Sheriff Bill Elfo says 59-year-old Loewen B. Craft was wear­ing a gray wig and makeup to make her look older when she arrived this week at a credit union branch in Ferndale, Wash. 
The sheriff alleges Craft fraudulently collected more than $145,000 in pension benefits since her mother, Betty Becker, died in 2007. 
Detective John Allgire was waiting at the credit union. He arrested Craft for investigation of first-degree identity theft, crimi­nal impersonation and multiple counts of forgery. 
The sheriff says the scheme began to unravel when the detective started investigating an unrelated arson case. He learned that Becker had been admitted to St. Joseph hospital in 2007 and died on April 23, 2007. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Tuesday wednesday 



Know someone chill for Monday’s Icebreaker? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
The 2010-2011 Annual Ward-Phillips lecture series featuring Wai Chee Dimock, the William Lampson Professor of English and American Studies at Yale University starts tomor­row. Professor Dimock will be giving the lecture “Who’s Irish : Henry James, Colm Toibin, James Joyce, Gish Jin” at 5 
p.m. in the Eck Center Auditorium. 
Karen Ainsley, the Executive Director of Near Northwest Neighborhood Inc. will be giv­ing the lecture “Exploring the Near Northwest Neighborhood, Inc.: The impact of a local Community Development Corporation” today at 5 p.m. in Bond Hall. 
Alexander Nemerov, the Chair of the Department of the History of Art at Yale University, will be giving the lecture “The Flame of Place: Abraham Lincoln.” The lecture will be held today at 5:30 p.m. in the Anneberg Auditorium at the Snite Museum of Art. 
Today in Hammes Mowbrary Hall starting at 6 p.m. R.A.D Women’s Self Defense courses taught by Notre Dame Security Police will be held. The course is taught in 4 sessions and $5 is due at the beginning of the first session. Preregister at http://ndsp.nd.edu. 
Registration for Family FIRST Yoga session 2 will be held all day today in Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Sign up in RSRC activity room 1. Registration is required due to space limitations. For questions contact Tim Novak at (575) 631-0584 or at tnovak@nd.edu. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
thursday friday 


Monday, March 7, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
OISextendsapplicationdeadline 
Steinerlectureson 

Universidad Católica[deChile], theiracademic programs,Opel By MARISA IATI soitdoesn’tmatterifwesenda said. News Writer fewor many,”Opel said. “The “Students, forexample,fresh-
sustainablefarming

same istrue inPuebla.Weare men,thatarejustmakingselec-
TheOffice ofInternational affiliatedwithauniversitythere. tionsfortheirfuturetrackshere Studieshasextendedapplication It’snotdependentonthenumber atNotre Dame may not have efficiently over the displayed
By CHRISTIAN MYERS

deadlinestoMarch21 forits ofstudents…butwe wereable realizedthattheyshouldhave time interval of the 1980s to
News Writer 

springof2012studyabroadpro-totakemorestudents,and…we appliedbackinNovemberifthey 
now, he said. The improvement grams in Puebla,Santiagoand wantedtoaccommodatepeople weregoingtostudyabroadasa 
isduetonewtechnologies. Washington,D.C.,ShawnFinlen, thathad appliedfor Toledoif sophomore,”Opelsaid.“This is 
Makingagriculturesustainable “We’ve increased production coordinatorfor theWashington, they were interestedin other onewaywehavetoaddressit.” 
should be a concern for every-without increasing inputs,” he 

D.C.program,said. Spanish-speakingoptions.” Summer studyabroadpro-
one,saidJerrySteiner,executive said. “We use what is out there “Wewantedtomakesurethat Finlen said although the grams are another way OIS 
vice president of Sustainability moreefficiently.” anystudentwho hadaconflict Washington,D.C. programdoes accommodatesstudentsthatcan-
and Corporate Affairs for Steiner identified the three with studyingabroadinthefall not have arequirednumber of notstudyabroadduringtheaca-
Monsanto, in his Friday lecture, main types of agriculture in before wasableto applyforthe students, OISprefersto send demicyear,Opelsaid.Thesestu­
“SustainableAgriculture:WhyIt practiceinthemodernworld.He spring,especially for freshmen between10and20studentseach dents receivepriority considera-
Matters.” called them efficiency driven, whomaynothavereallyknown semester. tionfor admissionto summer 
“Agriculture emits the same marketing driven and subsis­about their options to study Sixteenstudents havealready programs. 
levelofgreenhousegasesasthe tence. abroad,”Finlensaid. been accepted to the Opelsaid somestudents that 
global transportation sector … Steinerdefinedefficiency-driv-KathleenOpel,directorof off-Washington, D.C. programfor are minoring in Education, 
and40percentofglobalworkers en agriculture as focusing on campusprograms,saidtheOffice thespring of2012,Finlensaid. Schooling, and Society have 
arefarmers,”Steinersaid. reducing the cost per unit as ofInternational Studies (OIS) Opelsaidapproximatelyeight recentlyexpressedinterestinthe 
He explained the work he is much as possible. He defined decidedto allow morestudents students have beenaccepted to Puebla program because of its 
doingforMonsanto,aU.S.-based marketing driven agriculture as toparticipate in the Puebla, thePueblaprogramand about emphasison educational intern-
biotechnology company, and the growing in a certain way for a Mexico,andSantiago,Chile,pro-12 havebeen acceptedtothe ships. 
significance of sustainable agri-certain market. He used the grams because more spaces Santiago program.About400 Studentshavealso expressed 
cultureinthelecture. exampleoforganicfarmerswho wereavailable.Shesaidthereis students have beenaccepted to interestinthe Washington, D.C. 
The fifth lecture in the Ten commit to a certain agricultural nominimumnumberofstudents all studyabroad programs for programsincethedeadline was 
Years Hence lecture series, methodbecause thereis a mar-thatmustparticipateinthepro-thespringof2012. extended,Finlensaid. 
Steiner’s presentation began ket for the products of that gramsinorderforthemtorun. Somestudents mayonlybe 
with a one-minute video provid-method. “InSantiago,[students]go ableto studyabroad in their Contact Marisa Iati at 
ing the statistics of agriculture’s Steiner defined subsistence through the Pontificia sophomoreyears because of miati@nd.edu 
globalimpact. farmingasgrowingonlyenough Steiner asked the audience, for the farmer’s own needs. “What does sustainable agricul-Steinersaidsubsistencefarming2011 COLLEGE OFFER turemeantoyou?” is the result of poverty and that 
Audience members said prop-suchfarmerseitherlacktheland er use of water and soil, fair ortechnologytoproducemore. compensation for farmers and Steiner then played a video meeting the needs of the future featuring Jeffrey Sachs, founder are all aspects of sustainable of a nonprofit organization, the

University of 
agriculture. Millennium Promise Alliance, Steiner agreed with these dedicated to ending extreme ideasandsaidthatsustainability povertyandhunger.Sachsmade

Notre Dame 
requires a holistic, systemic thecaseforinvestinginimprov­approach that addresses all of ingagricultureandmakingtech-these issues collectively rather nology available for the poorest thansolvingthemoneatatime. ofthepoorworldwide. 
Steiner said improved produc-Steiner then returned to effi­tivity is the most important ciency-driven and marketing-aspect, since it allows us to driven agriculture. He said both address increasing demand in are focused on continual thefuture. improvement and have their 
Steineraccountedforthedata place. ofhowagricultureisnotmeeting “I don’t think we have to current demand, including the choose one of these two sys-statisticthat,globally,halfofthe tems,” he said. “Let’s let them people who do not have enough compete and supply their toeatarefarmers. respectivemarkets.” 
“The most important agricul-Steiner next touched on the tural resources are water, land importance of international and energy,” Steiner said. “We trade in meeting global food need to use less of each input needs. According to Steiner, it butstillproducemore.” allowsthenaturaladvantagesof 
Steiner also said that some one place benefit another and things are beyond human con-viceversa. trolwhenitcomestoproductive “Whenyou’vegotthatshipfull farming. of soybeans moving from Brazil 
“Sustainabilityisagoalweare toChina,you needtoimaginea working toward; perfection in thousand ships full of rainwater global production won’t hap-following right behind it,” pen,”hesaid.“Asfarmersknow, Steinersaid. there is always bad weather According to Steiner, somewhere in the world. We Monsanto’snextprojectisdevel­needtoplanweatherissuesinto oping drought-resistant corn for ourmodel.” useinAfricaandelsewhere. 
Steiner also talked about bio-Steiner concluded his lecture fuelsandexplainedthatethanol with a brief video that provided does not reduce the amount of facts and statistics about U.S. cornproducedforfood. agriculturalproduction. 
According to Steiner, ethanol The audience was then accounts for 8 percent of US allowed to ask questions. Every fuel, and the demand will question asked related to increase. Monsanto’s real-world policies 
A significant portion of the and practices not being in line 

SUN MON TUETUE WED THU FRI SATAT
SUN MON WED THU FRI 
122
1 
corn used to make ethanol is with a commitment to sustain-
PI PIPIT
PIT
Apri

April 
1:20 12:05 

34564 67 unused during the process and ableagricultureandfreemarket 
ITTZAZ AZ AZAZ 
1:20 1:20 1:20 1:20 
3 PI 5 78989 theseleftovercornparts,accord-competition. 
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 
ing to Steiner, are used as ani-The questions included why 

17 18 19 20 21 22 23 
D SD D LALAD LA Monsanto enters into litigation
SDDS LAD mal feed. Steiner also said that 
7:057:05 7:05 1:20 1:20 12:0512:05
7:05 1:20 1:20 
University of Notre Dame Discount Days at Wrigley Field 

24 25 26 27 28 29 30 
increased yields help to offset with organic farmers, why

AD COCOLLLOL COLL
LAD CO CO 
1:20 7:05 7:05 1:20 
ethanolproduction. Monsantospendsmoneyonlob-
Wrigley Field 2011 
Steiner also talked about the bying for ethanol and how 

SUN MON TUETUE WED THU FRI SATAT
SUN MON WED THU FRI
Promotional Schedule 

123455
April 1 Magnet schedule (1st 30,000 adults)O 1234 6 CI 7 CICIN importance of increasing pro-Monsanto is preserving plant
CIN 

April 2 Magnet schedule (1st 30,000 adults)O 1:20 12:10 April 5 Exclusive limited-edition Starlin Castro  8 9 1011121314 
ductivity, but also indicated the geneticdiversity. 

CIN STLLSTLLLSTL SFS SFSF
CIN TLST ST F
bobblehead doll (1st 10,000 fans)+ 7:05 7:05 1:20
1:20 1:20 6:10 April 18 Cubs winter gloves (1st 10,000 fans) 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 need for better transportation Steiner replied that Monsanto April 19   S
 Exclusive limited-edition Tyler Colvin  SFF 
1:20 
andstoragetoachievethatgoal. actuallyengagesinverylittleliti­
bobblehead doll (1st 10,000 fans)+ 

22 23 24 25 26 27 28
April 20 Cubs winter scarf (1st 10,000 fans) NYMMMMPI T
 YM NYMNY NYMNY PIT PIPI 
7:05 7:05 1:20 Steinerintroducedtheconcept gation with farmers, and the 
1:20 12:05
April 22 Cubs tote bag (1st 10,000 fans) 
1 Go to Cubs.com/fghtingirish
29 30 31
April 23 Cubs notebook (1st 10,000 fans) 

HO HOU companydoesn’thavethatmuch
PITITUHOU HO Mayy ofa“fieldprint,”theagricultural 
1:20 7:05
April 25 Cubs washed cap (1st 10,000 adults) O 1:20 

May 6 Cubs Hispanic Heritage T-shirt                                                        Ma TO ORDER 2 In the Ticket Center Box, clickon College equivalent of an environmental voice in Washington, D.C. He (1st 10,000 fans) 
Home games Discount to view select dates available. 
footprint.Heshowedaslidedis-also said Monsanto is taking
May 12 Cubs golf item (1st 10,000 adults)O 
May 14 Cubs T-shirt (1st 10,000 fans) May 25 Cubs key chain (1st 10,000 fans) 

3 Type in your promo code:Fighting Irish playing the global reduction of steps to maintain plant genetic 
theaveragefieldprint. diversity.
Age 21 and older.  Exclusive promotion available to Wrigley Field 
guests only. 
Soil conservation was 

*All prices subject to additional 12% City of Chicago and Cook County amusement tax. Additional service charges and fees apply to all tickets CALL 773-404-4242 FOR GROUP ORDERS OF 20 OR MORE.
purchased via the Internet. 
improvedthemost,butallmajor Contact Christian Myers at resourceswerebeingusedmore cmyers8@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 7, 2011 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer ‘Donate to Duct Tape Dayne’ drew Notre Dame students, faculty and staff to Rolfs Sport Recreation Center for the American Cancer Society’s Relay for Life event Friday. 

Relay 
continued from page 1 
Wright, Relay for Life com­mittee member and event coordinator, said. “Think outside the box. That’s my motto.” 
The idea for the event was a product of an online search for a unique and innovative fundraising idea, she said. 
Wright said she needed a duct -tape victim who was not only willing, but that would draw attention. She aimed high and sought out Crist. 
“I was more than happy to be a part of such a great cause,” Crist said. “One way or another we have all been affected by cancer, and I am glad that I can be a part of something that is so person­al for so many people.” 
Although he did not know exactly what he would be doing for the fundraiser, Crist said he did not try to scramble out of the commit­ment when he learned he was going to be duct-taped. 
“It didn ’t change my mind,” he said. “It’s for such a great cause.” 
Crist smiled, laughed and shouted at friends who were playing basketball or run­ning around the track in an effort to get more partici ­pants. Friends, students and others gathered to immobi­lize Crist. 
RecSports was an active participant in the fundraiser. Not only did its staff coordi­nate the event in conjunction with the Relay for Life Committee, but RecSports interns remained still as donors threw pies at their faces. 
Wright said their official goal was to raise $1,000. Donations ranged according to what each participant wanted to do, with $3 to duct-tape Crist and $1 to pie an intern. In addition to these interactive donation activities, participants were also encouraged to purchase luminaries, Peyton Pops or the iconic wristbands. Each donor was then asked to sign a commemorative board that will be donated to Relay for its silent auction. 
The Notre Dame Relay for Life Committee recognizes the growing relevance of cancer in the lives of its stu­dents, faculty, staff and com­munity, Wright said. The members are proud to par­ticipate and hope that, 
together with the American Notre Dame, Wright said. Cancer Society, they can The exact campus location of help create a world with less the Relay has yet to be cancer and more birthdays, determined. their website said. 
Relay for Life will take Contact Victoria Moreno at place from April 29 -30 at vmoreno@nd.edu 


Monday, March 7, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 


“The film was very well-happen every year and raise received, and there was a lot money for the missions,” 
Bengal 
of interest in it,” Ryan said. Ryan said. “We want to show “Things have been going how incredible this school is 
continued from page 1 

great so far.” and how great the work of great job of going back and The broad scope of the Bengal Bouts and the mis-looking at the fundamentals Notre Dame alumni network sions is, so in the scheme of of the story we wanted to has opened doors for the film things it doesn’t matter how tell,” Ryan said. “He’s pretty in spreading the word and long it took us to make the much taken it to its end, so raising funds for the Holy film.” now it’s all about getting the Cross missions highlighted in After the filmmakers trav­film out there for everyone to the film, Ryan said. eled to Bangladesh in May see.” “We pretty much have an 2008, Ryan and Weber decid-
In the filmmakers’ first open door policy with the ed more boxers should have major attempt to raise film because we just want to the opportunity they had, so awareness of the film, they share it with all the alumni they helped create an screened the final edition of clubs and whoever else International Summer “Strong Bodies Fight” at the wants to see it,” Ryan said. Service Learning Program Florida State University “We hope that the more peo-that would allow four to five 
Graduate Symposium for ple know about our relation-men to share their experi-Interreligious Dialogue last ship with Bangladesh and ence. month, Ryan said. Ryan and the great things Bengal “The ISSLP is the greatest 
his colleagues submitted the Bouts does, the more people thing to come out of this,” film to the symposium after will donate money and make Ryan said. “It’s not just contacting an FSU professor a bigger impact over there.” about us, and the fact that who they had come in con-The financial impact of the 10 guys have already gone tact with through their previ-Bouts on impoverished there means it’s changing ous work. Bangladesh is especially sig-the program and the under­
“It’s really cool to get the nificant because the standing of the boxers and film out there because this is exchange rate of what they’re fighting for.” something we all love, and Bangladeshi taka to US dol-Besides bringing the film to it’s a huge part of our lives,” lars is about 72 to 1, so last the Notre Dame community, Ryan said. “We have no real year’s Bengal Bouts Ryan said his team has sub-motive other than wanting fundraising total of more mitted “Strong Bodies Fight” people to learn more about than $100,000 will make a to several film festivals and the film and to see how great big difference, Ryan said. will find out where it has [Bengal Bouts] is.” But for Ryan, bringing been accepted within the 
Ryan said his team also “Strong Bodies Fight” back next few months. screened the film in to the Notre Dame communi-“2011 will be a big year for February at its first film fes-ty has been the most impor-us,” Ryan said. “We’re really tival, the John Paul II Film tant step in the process of excited to share the film with Festival in Miami, by work-promoting the film after everyone.” ing with the Notre Dame years of hard work. Club of Miami to promote the “It’s a timeless film Contact Kristen Durbin at film. because the Bouts will still kdurbin@nd.edu 
marathon was held from 8 p.m. this year’s marathon had other to 8 a.m. improvements. The Notre Dame “The time change allowed for Pre-Professional Society joined continued from page 1 more Riley’s kids and families the executive committee, mak­
to attend the event,” she said. ing the event officially shared remind them why they are “That was really important to by Saint Mary’s and Notre here.” us because we do this all for the Dame. 
In its sixth year, the event kids, and we want them to be “The Pre-Professional Society raised more than $63,000 for able to enjoy the marathon as played a huge role in recruiting the hospital. well.” Notre Dame students,” Wonski 
The marathon’s theme of Wonski explained that hold-said. “We saw an increase in “Under the Sea” was carried ing the marathon at an earlier the number of Notre Dame stu­through the event’s decorations, hour also helped with the dents participating, and we 
know the Jamaican coaches 
Dance 

games and prizes. The enter-morale of the marathon. hope to see that number contin­really well. You learned a lot 
tainment for the night included “I definitely saw a different in ue to increase in the future.” 
Bookstore 
about another part of the 

performances from Troop ND, the physical activity levels of A new Dance Marathon world.” 
Notre Dame student Zach the dancers,” she said. “It’s eas-fundraising website was also He said all the profits from 
continued from page 1 

Dubois, Bellacapella and Notre ier to dance for 12 hours when established, which allowed par-he became involved. the $25 entry fee are donated 
Dame Alum Pat McKillen, as you are dancing in the after-ticipants to gather donations “The nice thing about sum-to Jumpball, and around 700 
well as relay races, inflatables noon and evening rather than online from family and friends. mer is you get time off,” he teams participate. Curley said 
and carnival games. the early hours of the morn-Wonski said the website made said. “It was an opportunity when he came to Notre 
Executive committee member ing.” donating faster and easier and to get kids to come out. We Dame, he didn’t know what 
Caitlyn Wonski said the event’s South Bend restaurants lead to an increase in donations sort of hodge -podged it benefited from Bookstore 
attendance was higher than Chipotle, Papa Vinos, Subway, from non-participants. together. It just came from Basketball. 
previous years because of the Jimmy John’s, Hot Box Pizza Fundraising and planning for there.” “Knowing the cause made it 
increased number of families and Geno’s East Pizza donated the event began in the fall. The Now more than 300 chil-a much better event to be a 
present at the marathon. In food to the marathon. Dance Marathon committee dren attend the Kingston clin-part of. It benefits people 
previous years, the twelve-hour Along with the time change, hosted several fundraising ic, with 25 to 50 children miles away,” he said. “When 
activities throughout the school each attending the six other you participate, it’s a great 
year, including the Trot for Tots, satellite clinics, adding up to time, but it’s also a great 
a bowling night at Strike’s and 600 kids in all each summer. cause.” 
Spares and numerous giveback “We’ve had to move loca-Sutcliffe said Bookstore 
nights at local restaurants, tions [to the National Stadium Basketball is Jumpball ’s 
among other events. The SMC-Basketball Courts] because largest sponsor. 
ND Dance Marathon committee it’s grown,” he said. “We’ve “We want to get to the point 
also oversees various “mini­had a lot of repeat kids, and where everyone associates 
marathons” at local high many go on to become volun-Bookstore with our charity,” 
schools. teer coaches.” he said. 
Junior Stephanie Cherpak Sutcliffe said the program is Sutcliffe said the 
attended the event as a dancer continuing to grow, maxing Programme is about more 
and was pleased with the out the number of attendees than the sport of basketball. 
marathon’s atmosphere. every year. “The kids are learning life 
“It was upbeat and ener­“We’re trying to increase skills through basketball,” he 
getic,” she said. “And it was so the number of boys and girls said. “We also give out lunch-
great to see so many people from orphanages,” he said. es, which doesn’t seem like 
coming together for a great “We’re excited to do some-much but is a big deal. … 
cause like Riley’s. You could thing in the world to make a We’ve helped out over 5,000 
sense the passion and love in difference. It gives a lot of kids in all.” 
everyone present.” pride to the Notre Dame con-Registration for Bookstore 
Fadden said the increased nection. It’s a name that peo-Basketball began March 1 
energy, as well as participation ple in Kingston know.” and will run until March 11 
and fundraising, are things that For the past four years, two on www.nd.edu/~bkstr, Curley 
the committee plans to continue students have made the trip said. 
to improve on in the future. down to Jamaica to help at “One of my favorite parts of 
“We’ve gotten great feedback the main clinic, Sutcliffe said. Notre Dame is its tradition 
all around,” she said. “So we One of the students who went and tradition of athletics,” he 
really just want to keep build-this summer, junior Bobby said. “This combines both. 
ing every year and continue to Curley, is a member of the It’s one of my favorite parts 
do anything and everything we Bookstore Basketball of the year.” 
can to help the Riley’s kids.” Executive team. “[The experience] was Contact Amanda Gray at 
Contact Bridget Meade at great,” Curley said. “I got to agray3@nd.edu 
bmeade01@saintmarys.edu 


page 6 The Observer  INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, March 7, 2011 
EGYPT 

Egyptian prime minister names caretaker cabinet 
Associated Press 
CAIRO — Egypt's prime min­ister-designate named a care­taker Cabinet on Sunday to help lead the country through reforms and toward free elec­tions after the uprising that ousted President Hosni Mubarak. 
The changes include new faces in the key foreign, interi­or and justice ministries — a decision expected to be met with the approval of the pro-reform groups that led an 18­day uprising that forced Mubarak to step down on Feb. 11. 
Meanwhile, a rally outside the Interior Ministry in Cairo, which houses offices of the hated State Security agency, was violently broken up. 
Protesters have over the past two days rallied outside some dozen state security offices across the nation. In many cases, protesters stormed the buildings, including the main State Security headquarters in the Cairo suburb of Nasr City. The protests followed reports that agents were burning and shredding documents to destroy evidence that would incriminate them in possible cases of human rights abuses. 
On Sunday, army soldiers fired in the air and used stun guns to disperse hundreds of protesters who wanted to storm the State Security offices inside the Interior Ministry in downtown Cairo. The protesters said they want­ed to see for themselves whether the building had secret cells and to stop officers from destroying documents. 
Thugs armed with rocks, firebombs and machetes also charged at the protesters, but it was not immediately known who had sent them. State TV said 27 arrests were made at the scene. 
The State Security agency, which employs about 100,000 of Egypt's 500,000-strong security forces, is blamed for the worst human rights abuses against Mubarak's opponents. 
Dismantling the agency has been a key demand of the protest groups that led the uprising. 
In a move clearly designed to respond to such demands, Prime Minister-designate Essam Sharaf has named a new interior minister. Maj. Gen. Mansour el-Essawy, a former Cairo security chief, was expected to replace Mahmoud Wagdi, who has held the post for less than a month 
The Interior Ministry is in charge of the security forces. 
El-Essawy, according to a report by the state news agency, pledged after meeting Sharaf that he would work to restore security and reduce the role of the State Security agency. 


Sharaf met with 22 other ministerial nominees, includ­ing Nabil Elaraby, expected to be Egypt's foreign minister. Elaraby will replace Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul-Gheit, who has held the job since 2004 but has been maligned by the protesters because of his criticism of the uprising in its early days. 
Elaraby was Egypt's U.N. representative in the 1990s and served as a judge in the International Court of Justice between 2001 and 2006. He was critical of the govern­ment's crackdown against the uprising and was a member of a committee to advise protest leaders on their reform demands. 
The new Cabinet also includes a new justice minis­ter, replacing one who was considered a close Mubarak ally and whose dismissal was demanded by the opposition groups. 
The new Cabinet has to be approved and sworn in by Egypt's military rulers. 
Nasser Abdel-Hamid, a protest leader and member of the Youth Coalition, said the new cabinet lineup was acceptable because it did not include Mubarak loyalists. 
“Most of them are experts in their field, and have a good history,” he said. 
LIBYA 

Loyalists attack rebel advance on capital city 
Associated Press 
BIN JAWWAD — Forces loyal to Moammar Gadhafi, some in helicopter gunships, pounded opposition fighters with artillery, rockets and gunfire Sunday, dramatically escalating their counteroffensive to halt the rebels’ rapid advance toward the capital. 
They also battled to loosen the grip of rebels on two cities close to Tripoli. But in at least one case, their tactics appeared to lead them into a trap. 
Residents said pro-Gadhafi troops punched into the city of Misrata, 120 miles (200 kilome­ters) east of Tripoli, the capital, with mortars and tanks but were pushed out five hours later by rebel forces. The rebel commanders intentionally opened the way for government tanks to enter the city, then surrounded them and attacked with anti-aircraft guns and mortars, said Abdel Fatah al-Misrati, one of the rebels. 
“Our spirits are high,” al-Misrati said. “The regime is struggling and what is happen­ing is a desperate attempt to survive and crush the opposi­tion. But the rebels are in con­trol of the city.” 
As fighting across Libya grew more fierce, the international community appeared to be struggling to put military mus­cle behind its demands for Gadhafi to give up power. 
A small British delegation sent to talk to the rebels head­quartered in the main eastern city of Benghazi, meanwhile, was arrested by the rebels themselves, who said the group had entered the country with­out permission. The rebels have set up an interim govern­ing council that is urging inter­national airstrikes on Gadhafi’s strongholds and forces, though they strongly oppose foreign intervention on the ground. 
Sunday’s fighting appeared to signal the start of a new phase in the conflict, with Gadhafi’s regime unleashing its air power on the rebel force trying to oust the ruler of 41 years. Resorting to heavy use of air attacks sig­naled the regime’s concern that it needed to check the advance of the rebel force toward the city of Sirte — Gadhafi’s home­town and stronghold. 
Anti-Gadhafi forces would get a massive morale boost if they captured Sirte, and it would clear a major obstacle on the march toward the gates of Tripoli. 
The uprising against Gadhafi, which began Feb. 15, is already longer and much bloodier than the relatively quick revolts that overthrew the longtime author­itarian leaders of neighboring Egypt and Tunisia. 
Libya appears to be sliding toward a civil war that could drag out for weeks, or even months. Both sides seem to be relatively weak and poorly trained, though Gadhafi’s forces have the advantage in numbers and equipment. 


Monday, March 7, 2011 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Twister victims focus on cleanup 
Associated Press 
RAYNE, La. — As the storm roared toward Pauline Patton’s apartment, she peered out the window and saw something she wasn’t ready for: A funnel cloud. Suddenly, the power went out. Rainwater poured through the ceiling. And as everything went black, she heard what sounded like a bomb exploding overhead. 
Still, residents said the torna­do that killed a woman the day before and displaced hundreds could have been much worse. Many have turned their atten­tion to taking care of pets and retrieving essentials left behind while evacuating. 
Patton, 64, and her husband, Howard, were having lunch Sunday at a fire station-turned­shelter, courtesy of the Red Cross. They weren’t sure when — or if — they’d be able to return to their apartment. About two dozen people were also at the shelter, with nowhere else to go. 
“It just happened so fast,” she said. “You couldn’t hardly see nothing. Everything was dark.” 
Many of the 1,500 residents were being allowed to return to their homes in this community about 70 miles west of Baton Rouge, said Rayne Police Chief Carroll Stelly. 
“If they have power and they have no barricade tape, they can sleep the night away,” Stelly said. 
However, about 100 damaged homes were still barricaded off. Forty were uninhabitable and 60 hadn’t been inspected yet, Stelly said. 
Some 150 homes had been damaged or destroyed as winds topped out at 135 mph, leaving at least 12 with injuries that were not life-threatening. 
On Sunday, a cat curled in the sun on top of the demolished home where 21-year-old Jalisa Granger was killed. Granger had been protecting her 15­month-old son, Tyrek, when part of an oak tree crashed onto the home. Her mother and brother were also inside, her cousin said. An uncle had to cut a hole in the wreckage to pull out the three survivors, said Granger’s cousin, 35-year-old Donita Wilridge. 
“My aunt said that within 30 seconds it was over,” Wilridge said. 
Granger’s son is too young to understand what happened, but is missing his mother, who was studying nursing at LSU at Eunice. 
“He just keeps hollering for her,” Wilridge said. 
Elsewhere, mud-soaked belongings were strewn about the yards. Emergency workers spray-painted symbols on homes that they had checked. Splintered wood, glass shards and metal littered yards, while aluminum siding was wrapped around trees. Chainsaws hummed in the distance as crews cut downed tree limbs from power lines. 
In the evening, residents allowed back into their neigh­borhood used flashlights to look at the damage. 
Harold Mouton, 67, was stunned to find yellow tape cor­doning off his house, meaning he couldn’t stay there. The twister ripped through the front of the house and it had shifted off its foundation. 
“I feel like crying, man,” the shaken Mouton said. “That was my daddy’s house, my grand­mother’s house.” 
Gov. Bobby Jindal was meet­ing with officials and survey the damage. He said more would be known about federal assistance when teams from the state and federal government assess the damage. 
“These are a strong people. We are going to rebuild back better and stronger than we were before,” Jindal said. 
Marla Andrew, 50, was wait­ing at the police department hoping someone could get her back to her home so she could check on her terrier Keosha, who had gone a full day without food and water. Andrew had been giving her elderly mother a bath when the storm hit. 
“I was so worried about get­ting my mom out of there I completely forgot about the dog,” said Andrew, whose home was not significantly damaged but was located in the evacua­tion area. 
In that same waiting room, 50-year-old Reginald Mouton was hoping he could at least retrieve an essential piece of medical equipment and avoid a second sleepless night. Mouton uses a machine to help control his sleep apnea, a disorder that causes pauses in breathing while people sleep. 
Police had given him about 15 to 20 minutes to pack a bag when his neighborhood was evacuated, and he forgot the device. Nonetheless, he was grateful his home did not have serious damage. 
“I’m very fortunate. We as a community are very fortunate,” he said. “It could have been a lot worse.” 
Official discusses Muslim mosques 
Associated Press 
STERLING, Va. — Muslim Americans are not part of the terrorism problem facing the 
U.S. — they are part of the solution, a top White House official said Sunday at a Washington-area mosque. 
Deputy National Security Adviser Denis McDonough set the Obama adminis ­
“Being religious is never
tration ’s The White tone for un-American. Being House has 
di scus-religious is quintessentially said it wel­sions as comes con-
American.” 
tensions gressional escalate oversight. before the Denis McDonough The first in a Deputy National Security Adviser administra­
series of congres ­sional hearings on Islamic radical­ization. The hearings, chaired by New York Republican Peter King, will focus on the level of coopera­tion from the Muslim com­munity to help law enforce­ment combat radicalization. 
The majority of the recent terror plots and attempts against the U.S. have involved people espousing a radical and violent view of Islam. Just a few weeks ago a college student from Saudi Arabia who studied chemical engineering in Texas was arrested after he bought explosive chemicals online. It was part of a plan to hide bomb materials inside dolls and baby carriages and blow up dams, nuclear plants or the Dallas home of former President George W. Bush. 
King said the Muslim com­munity could and should do more to work with law enforcement to stop its mem­bers from radicalizing and recruiting others to commit violence. 
“I don’t believe there is suf­ficient coopera ­tion” by Presbyterian church. 
After McDonough’s remarks, King told The Associated Press he agreed with what the deputy nation­al security adviser said. 
“I think it’s a validation of everything I’ve been trying to do,” King said, adding that he and McDonough spoke Friday evening. “There is a real threat, it’s a seri­ous threat.” 


American “No community can be violent 
Musli ms expected to meet a extremism. with law McDonough 
challenge as complex as
enforce-leads a
this alone.” 
ment, King working s a i d group of 13 Sunday on federal
Denis McDonough
C N N ’ s agencies
Deputy National Security Adviser 
“State of and offices 
tion has 
tried to 
strike a bal­ance on the thorny issue, working to go after home­grown Islamic extremists without appearing to be at war with the Muslim world. There has been an effort to build stronger relationships with Muslims — internation­ally and in the United States. 
During his remarks Sunday, McDonough called the mosque a “typically American place” and said it reminded him of his Catholic parish where he grew up in Minnesota. 
“Being religious is never un-American. Being religious is quintessentially American,” he said. 
He commended the mosque’s members for taking “an unequivocal stand against terrorism.” 
“You’ve sent a message that those who perpetrate such horrific attacks do not represent you or your faith, and that they will not suc­ceed in pitting believers of different faiths against one another,” McDonough said. 
The White House is close to 
finalizing a 
strategy for 
countering 
the Union.” ‘’Certainly my dealings with the police in New York and FBI and others say they do not believe they get the same — they do not give the level of cooperation that they need.” 
In New York City on Sunday, about 300 protestors gathered in Times Square to speak out against King’s hearing, criticizing it as xenophobic and saying that singling out Muslims, rather than extremists, is unfair. 
McDonough said that instead of condemning whole communities, the U.S. needs to protect them from intimi­dation. 
McDonough spoke to an interfaith forum at a Northern Virginia mosque known for its longtime rela­tionship and cooperation with the FBI. The executive director of the center, Imam Mohamed Magid, also spoke, as did speakers from a local synagogue and a — including 
the National Counterterrorism Center and the departments of Defense, Education, Health and Human Services, Homeland Security, Justice and State — focused on finding ways to confront the problem. 
On Sunday, McDonough said the strategy would involve continuing efforts to understand the process of radicalization, as well as fur­ther outreach to Islamic com­munities in the United States. He also promised further efforts to dispel “mispercep­tions about our fellow Americans who are Muslim.” 
“No community can be expected to meet a challenge as complex as this alone,” McDonough said. “No one community can be expected to become experts in terror­ist organizations, how they are evolving, how they are using new tools and technol­ogy to reach our young peo­ple.” 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, March 7, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

You define our work 
I was required to attend a live show­ing of the National Theatre’s perform­ance of “King Lear” at Browning Cinema Thursday night. 
Instead, I spent the night — close to 10 hours total — fulfilling my new role as Editor-in-Chief for the first time. 
The Observer, such as it goes. And none of us on this staff would have it any other way. 


Douglas Farmer 
We have missed classes, lost sleep, eaten unhealthy 

Editor-in-Chief 
food and skipped nights with our friends, even stood up the occasional date, to produce this paper so you can have a distraction over that plate of stuffed shells. 
Yes, for some in our newsroom, these teeth-grinding mishaps provide mean­ingful experience for potential journal­ism careers. Yet even more of our staff is smart enough to avoid the down-ward-spiraling path of journalism: pre­med, philosophy and business majors. After just one night as Editor-in-Chief, I concluded these are the members of staff that will carry me through my yearlong term, and you, our readers, are the ones that will define it. 
When the pre-med major tanks an orgo exam, we trust him to forget about it long enough to write a hockey feature — even though it was a night in the office that stole away his precious studying time. When the philosophy major finishes his cryptic thesis, we relax with him — largely because we know they will finally return to their regular work in the basement of South Dining Hall. When the business majors land lucrative internships, or even jobs, we plan to celebrate with them — as now they have the money to spend that us journalists will likely never see our­selves. 
And when someone in this room actually pursuing journalism catches an unexpected break, it is the pre-med, philosophy and business majors who appreciate it the most, as they see the daily effort that turned into that stroke of luck. 
Without these staffers, The Observer would not come out twice a week, yet alone daily. 
Without our readers, The Observer would not exist at all. 
By reading The Observer in class, during lunch or while Villanova’s start­ing lineup is announced, you give us — all of us, both the journalism minors and the pre-med majors — reason to miss those classes, lose sleep, eat unhealthily and even skip a few nights at Kildare’s. 
Over the next year, it is our goal to improve our content, expand our cov­erage and facilitate your access to it. All too often we only think of what trip we can go on next or what clip will look good in our portfolio. 
What we need to think of, and I assure you will think of, is you, our readers. Without you, The Observer would not exist at all. 
Feel free to remind any one of us of that anytime. It’ll motivate us further, because we’ll know you’re still reading. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

The topic of all topics 
In pondering the next Notre Dame issue I would tackle for this week’s col­umn, I could not help but realize that I had yet to enlighten the campus on my thoughts concerning the ultimate topic at Notre Dame — gender relations. Now, there are sev­eral facets of this topic that I could touch upon — freshman-year relationships, the supposed hook up culture, long-dis­tance relation-Kevin Kimberly ships, the incor­rect definition Bursting the many have of a Bubble feminist, the incessant need for a relationship versus the incessant need to avoid relationships, the hypocrisy with which many men treat women and so on. But if I have learned one thing from my professors here, it is to be con­cise and narrowly focused when writ­ing. 

I believe the area of concern that is the greatest in the gender relations cat­egory is the awkwardness which numerous Notre Dame students exhibit when communicating with the opposite sex; granted, there are those who dis­play the same awkwardness communi­cating with just about anyone, but let’s work in baby steps here. 
I had always believed that a situation is only as awkward as you make it; boy, was I mistaken. Maybe I am just expecting too much from 18-to 22­year-olds, but I feel like the ability to communicate is something every col­lege student should be decent at. There is no better place to start than Frosh-O to find these moments. I was amazed at the inability of many females to carry a simple conversation upon meeting me 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

during some forced interaction event. Is it really that difficult to maintain a 10­minute, if that, talk with someone with whom you already have one huge thing in common? The answer is no. Likewise, I found it as amazing the amount of nonsense my male counter­parts would spew about the females on campus and about how great they were at x or how much game they had, yet around females, the walk did not line up with the talk. Even as a senior, I still witness these moments today. I legiti­mately think I am in high school at times; it is absolutely crazy. 
The reason I focus on this topic of awkwardness is that it permeates and advances every other gender issue on campus. Freshman-year relationships are born out of awkwardness. Awkward person meets awkward person (or those who somehow find awkwardness attractive), which then births a rela­tionship where the two only hang out with each other and no one else. Two problems — restrictive relationship and freshman-year relationship period — summed up by the major issue at hand. The hookup culture is a prime example of awkwardness being a problem, for I could never soberly do the things I sud­denly have the power (i.e. liquid courage) to do now! The list goes on and on. 
As you can see and probably have noticed already, this is a great area of concern for future (and present) gener­ations of Notre Dame students. That is why the proposition I am about to make must be taken seriously on the account that it will seek to fix three problems. That proposition is to replace the ill-advised Contemporary Topics with a semester-long course on Gender Relations and Social Awkwardness. Instead of a thick binder, most of which is never read, real-life scenarios and learning would be more effective. We all come to Notre Dame to make the world a better place, right? How in the world are we supposed to do that when we graduate the same social being as we were when we entered? And besides, think of the hilarity that would ensue during these classes. Problems with attendance would be minimal dur­ing these sessions of P.E. 
The implementation of this suggestion would put Notre Dame on the path to righting two huge wrongs — gender relation issues and the ineffectiveness of Contemporary Topics. A third wrong 
— 
me currently having no job, program or schooling lined up post-graduation 

— 
could also be righted as I would gladly take on the coordinator position for this important program. Then I could be “that” graduate who seems to go to Feve, Finny’s and the Backer more so than actual students. 


The possibilities are endless. Just think of how better of a place Notre Dame would be, particularly during your first year, if males knew how to speak to females and vice versa; you know, past the whole 30-second “what is your name and where are you from” conversation. We all know that Contemporary Topics leaves a lot to be desired, so why not actually teach stu­dents things that are relevant. The food pyramid and the drink equivalencies of shots to beers is old news. I expect a prompt response from the Department of Physical Education and Wellness Instruction; this opportunity is too great to pass up. 
Kevin Kimberly is a senior majoring in psychology and political science. He is eligible to run for president in 2024 and welcomes campaign slogans and ideas at kkimberl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


POLL OF THE WEEK 
What are your plans for SpringBreak? 
I'm going home 
Somewhere warms and sunny with friends Going on a service trip Other 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The things we know best are thethings we haven’t been taught.” 
Marquis de Vauvenargues French moralist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Monday, March 7, 2011 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Necessary conversations 
After watching the performance of Loyal Daughters and Sons on Thursday, I was stunned. Not by what I had seen — I know the horrors of sexual assault at Notre Dame only too well — but by the fact that afterwards no one was talking. After it ended every­one was either silent or started talking about more light-hearted subjects like their plans for the evening. If one in four college women are subjected to sexual assault, this means that over 1,000 women currently at Notre Dame have experienced it. How are we not talking about this? 
There’s been a lot of focus on Saint Mary’s recently and I can only imagine what kind of victimization our sisters across the lake experience when they are openly demeaned and labeled as “dumb and easy” by Notre Dame guys. We have events like Loyal Daughters and Sons and Sexual Assault Awareness Week to promote dialogue about this issue, but nobody is talking. I think what we need is to start a conversation. 
I’ll volunteer to speak first: I am one of the thou­sand women at Notre Dame who has suffered sexual assault. Twice. On Notre Dame’s campus. 
There, I’ve started the conversation; now I expect some sort of response in the form of both conversa­tions and Viewpoints. To those of you who know me, please don’t awkwardly say nothing and pretend that you didn't read The Observer — when you see me, let’s talk about this. To Notre Dame guys, I not only expect you to listen carefully to women’s complaints about this issue, to listen and respect when they say “no,” but to join in the conversation and start dis­cussing why this is happening. 
If a thousand women at Notre Dame suffer sexual assault, how many guys are perpetrators? Ladies, why aren't we talking more about this subject that affects us so profoundly even with each other? Sexual assault is often blamed on binge drinking or the hookup culture, but that still doesn't explain why we engage in those behaviors to begin with. Let’s speak up and speak loud. Let’s start talking. 
Shea Streeter 
senior 
Badin Hall 
Mar. 6 

A nationwide epidemic 
I’ve noticed a few articles in The Observer these past few days concerning the non-athlete shirt and there were a few issues I feel compelled to address. 
First off, Holden, your letter (“Non-athlete shirts a reminder,” Mar. 1) implies a negative connotation for the term “athlete.” As a fellow member of Wabruda, I must stress that being an athlete is not a bad thing; in fact, more power to the athletes for not only handling the rigorous work of Notre dame academia, but having the discipline and time man­agement to also engage in varsity level sports. I want to make it clear there is no enmity toward athletes harbored in Wabruda; our efforts solely focus on the remnants of a bountiful weed called prejudice, plaguing not only our Notre Dame com­munity but all communities, as Alex (“Prejudice runs deeper,” Mar. 2) put it. 
That being said, I completely agree with the sen­timent of Holden’s letter — the sentiment felt by Asian-Americans for being told they are only engi­neers with martial art skill, blonds being idiots or tall people playing basketball. I cannot stress Patrick’s point (“Don’t assume,” Mar. 3) that label­ing someone solely for their physical characteris­tics is in every possible way the most shallow and facetious action of modern America. 
Notre Dame to me has always spoken about improving its community. What better way to aid society then to eliminate the most elementary cause of hatred? 
Ryan Snelling 
freshman O’Neill Hall Mar. 3 

The MR degree 
The Viewpoints “The anti-MRS” (Mar. 1) and “MRS degree is alive and well” (Mar. 3) have both left me furious. It is the 21st century! What hap­pened to gender equality, Title IX, the Equal Pay Act? Why is the MRS degree getting all the atten­tion while the male equivalent MR degree remains on the sidelines? It is time that we raised the level of public discourse to the point where women’s and men’s issues are both discussed civilly. It is time that we recognized the MR degree as every bit as prestigious as the MRS degree. 
I am not afraid to admit that I chose Notre Dame in pursuit of the MR degree, and I know that others secretly harbor the same ambition. We have all come to this prestigious university with our charming smiles and surefire pick-up lines in pursuit of that beautiful gem (a.k.a. the profes­sional woman.) Honestly, my current Arts and Letters major offers limited prospects, but if I can persuade a future business leader, lawyer or doc­tor to make me her husband, I’ll be set. Heck, if I can win over a biochemical engineer I might even switch my secondary major (after MR) to some­thing like French or sociology! Considering my indecision, even anthropology isn’t a bad idea. There are young men all over this campus, strug­gling through coursework, who have hedged their bets on their weekend pursuit of that special someone — that person who makes all your finan­cial worries melt away. 
I also must admit that I believe the women of Notre Dame are more attractive than the women of Saint Mary’s. What can I say? I’m a diploma chaser, and a dual degree in business and engi­neering is worth more looks than an education major. Let’s be serious, fellas. 
Suffice to say that the MR degree is real and present on this campus, and I am looking forward to life as a stay-at-home dad. Thus, I leave you with the wise words of Webbie: “She got her own money. She don’t need no help, man. I-N-D-E-P-E­N-D-E-N-T — do you know what that mean, man?” 
Brett Ubl 
freshman Fisher Hall Mar. 4 

Re-inventing the parasite 
My freshman year at Saint Mary’s college, an Observer comic referred to Saint Mary’s women as parasites. Some people, including my friends, were quite offended by this, but I didn’t really care. I couldn’t attend Notre Dame, even though I was in the top five percent of my high school class, scored well on the ACT and had a nice repertoire of activi­ties that encompassed academics, athletics and fine arts. I simply couldn’t afford it. 
So I went to Saint Mary’s, received a scholarship and made some wonderful lifelong friends. And if I could do it again, and could go to Notre Dame for free, I would still choose to pay for my Saint Mary’s education. I am currently a graduate student at Notre Dame. I was also accepted to the Chemistry program at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, whose Top-10 ranking far surpasses that of Notre Dame. Why, then, did I choose to come to Notre Dame for grad school? 
Here’s a lesson I learned, and am willing to share with you: Sometimes the best (based on popular choice) is not the best choice for every single per­son in that populous. I am doing what I’ve done all along — what is best for me. 
So keep that in mind, ladies and gentlemen at both schools, before you decide to judge. What is best for you may not be best for someone else. Don’t berate others’ choices, for a choice is some­thing we’ve been given. 
And to my Belles, if you see me around Notre Dame’s campus, I’ll be wearing my ring, my french cross and something that let’s everyone know I’m Saint Mary’s. That’s how I’m changing stereotypes of SMC chicks — not by arguing in Viewpoint arti­cles. 
Kristi Pellegrini 
grad student off campus Mar. 4 

Please be courteous 
The last few days at lunch have been frustrating for me in one way: I haven't found a Chicago Tribune any­where. Not at 11 a.m. and not at 1:30 p.m. Only last week there were a good four or more sitting in the return tray! 
I don't know if students (or dining hall staff) are recycling them, but I figure this is worth a try anyway: I'm asking all Tribune readers to please, please, please put them back in the return tray when you're done. 
That way someone else (like me) can enjoy them too. The Blackhawks are on a six game win streak and I'd like to peruse pro-Hawk biased articles while eating my lunch. 
Lindsay Nowak 
sophomore Farley Hall Mar. 4 

Rules and maxims for safe dining hall navigation 
It can be hit and miss. It’s sometimes repetitive. It can be a drag. But most importantly, 6:15 rolls around each day and navigating through the dining hall is like driving the Loop in rush hour. There are traffic jams, crashes and a fair share of road rage. Everyone’s felt a love tap from someone in the steamed veggie line or had someone cut them off in the drink area. If you’re a Northy, walk in/out any of the side rooms and you run the risk of your clothes absorbing more food than your stomach. Oof. 
So what of it? Well, because everyone wants to know (right? — humor me), here are a few Rules for Safe Dining Hall Driving so you, too, can make it through the fray without a round of applause from the whole dining hall. 
1. If you’re going to turn, look first. Don’t just wheel around your tray of wings into a passer-by. 
2. Don’t stop abruptly. 
3. 
Don’t use the tray conveyor belt area as a social space, even though that thing is a great topic for small talk with that soon-to-be special someone. (Extra food goes in, doesn’t come out?!) 

4. Don’t back up, ever. 

5. 
Wait three minutes to text; don’t do it while carry­ing your spinach and tofu salad and two cups of milk. And last but not least? 


6. Drinks. Last. It’s just safe. 
I’m as guilty as the next person of breaking these rules, but maybe, just maybe, the food court will be a safer place with them in mind. If not, there are always hand signals. 
Jacques Dupuis 
senior Sorin College Mar. 4 
The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Monday, March 7, 2011 



the Los Angeles area. Their work as DJs
By TROY MATHEWS 
led to a fortuitous musical breakthrough.
Scene Writer 

“I didn’t start making mash-ups until 2007. I was DJing and I think just acci-Super Mash Bros, a Los Angeles-based dentally started making mash-ups,” mash-up group, performed at Legends Fenmore said. “When you’re mixing last Friday night, creating what was something and going from one song to aptly described as “musical jungle the next, there’s going to be some acci­juice.” dental mash-up. Then you realize, holy 
This eclectic musical and visual juice crap, these songs go well on top of each included mash-ups featuring Lil Jon’s other and sound good together.” “Get Low” over Hanson’s “MMMBop,” The process for making songs for their coupled with videos displaying every-albums is not always as effortless. thing from Bill Nye the Science Guy to “We either find an instrumental or rap clips of “The O.C.” Such pop-culture nos-we really want to use. It’s a lot of sitting talgia is very characteristic of the group, and trying different things, sort of a trial band member Nick Fenmore said in an and error type of process,” Fenmore interview with the Observer. said. 
“Our goal is to put things together that The group has released two albums, no one else would think of,” Fenmore 2008’s “F*** B*****. Get Euros.” and said. “If something is obscure and needs 2009’s “All About the Scrillions.” Their a comeback, we’re more than happy to current project, which has been in the make it happen. We like to use things in works for over a year, is nearing comple­our songs people wouldn’t necessarily tion. Although it does not have a specific consider dance music.” release date, they hope to release their 
Also contributing greatly to the throw-album this summer. back-laden show was the video compo-As for content, the group plans to take nent, created by fellow Mash Bro, Ethan their music in a slightly different direc-Dawes. tion. 
“The video component is just about “We definitely are going to do more making the show more of an experi-mash-ups. It’s not only our name but it’s ence,” Dawes said. “The video is always what people know us for,” Fenmore said. really tailored to where we are.” “However, I’ve been working on this next 
The personalized video show, which mixtape for the past year and half and I included clips from “Rudy,” and Notre want to take things in a more modern Dame football highlights, resulted in an direction. We’ve established this sort of audience wondering what could possibly throwback, nostalgic kind of vibe, but 
come next. The music also fully estab-our next project is into a lot more mod­lished this feel, as the group made an ern electronic music and things like that. effort to mix new material in with their It’s still in homage to what we started more established songs. out doing, though.” 
“We like to play our classics, but also Fenmore highlighted his personal throw in some of the new stuff as well. favorite on the upcoming album: a song Sometimes we absolutely wing it based featuring Phil Collin’s “In the Air on what the crowd is feeling,” Fenmore Tonight,” and the Ying Yang Twins’ said. “I don’t define our classics. It’s just “Whisper Song.” whatever people want to listen to. People Since they do not sell their music, the seem to love our Eminem/MGMT track group does not legally need the artist’s and our Sandstorm/Soulja Boy track.” permission to use their song in a mash-
Such tracks differ in the group’s live up. Upsetting the artists is not a main show, as the group will play more of the concern. songs’ choruses to heighten their sing-“If there’s an artist who takes them-along quality. The personalization and selves too seriously and doesn’t want to spur of the moment additions lead to a hear Justin Bieber over their song, I unique concert-going experience. apologize, but I’m going to do it any­
“For our live shows, there are no rules ways,” Fenmore said. and no expectations,” Fenmore said. Along with their album release, the “This is going to be a party, we just want group has big summer plans. Although people to sing along and have fun and they could not mention any details, they enjoy the whole visual aspect of what’s plan to appear at a number of summer going on.” music festivals across the country. 
Fenmore and Dawes, both 21, are With songs often firmly rooted in the joined by group member Dick Fink. Fink, age of “Rocket Power” and “Space Jam” who is currently studying abroad in while also implementing a huge amount Australia, rarely tours with the group of current songs, Super Mash Bros pro-because he is a full-time college student. vide a best of both worlds. By coupling Dawes, who graduated early from their music with colorful and surprising Emerson College, and Fenmore, who is video-nostalgia, their live show is electri­currently on leave from UCLA, are the fying and comes highly recommended. group’s primary performers. 
Super Mash Bros formed between 
Contact Troy Mathews at 

2006 and 2007, when Dawes and Fenmore were both working as DJs in tmathew2@nd.edu 
MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Monday, March 7, 2011 page 11 


MARIA FERNANDEZ/The Observer 
By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 

Name: Mallory Meter and Molly Driscoll Spotted: Hesburgh Library Mallory and Molly are getting ready for midterms in style. Mallory’s dark jeans and brown boots go perfectly with her flowing white top and purple cardigan. Molly’s outfit is just as fashionable. Her combination of dark-washed jeans and light brown boots with a grey t-shirt and an army green vest looks great. These two study partners chose really cool outfits that are both comfortable and chic! 
There comes a time in every the corner of my eye, hence my woman’s life when she realizes penchant for sunglasses indoors, she has become a practical de rigueur as any globetrotter will woman of her age. No longer visi-attest). How are we to combat ble are the days of jetting off, these dueling monsters: our study gowns at the 
needs and our roles as chic mem­ready, to 
bers of society? With swords and conquer an 
knights in shining Armani? unknown 
Absolutely not. The jumpsuit is a city. 
much better suit of armor. Relegated to 
The jumpsuit combines the past are 
European glamour with American the exhila­
practicality and gumption. First rating 
appropriated from male factory moments of workers by Rosie the Riveter hiding when she was called to define the amongst a role of the World War II era celebrity woman, the jumpsuit immediately crowd in order to crash a projected the message of hard Hollywood premiere of epic pro-work, strength and structure. In portions (again feel free to pester the jumpsuit Rosie seemed to say, me for details). Instead “We can do the work papers, presentations 
of a man in his own and exams exert their 
uniform, and in the concentrated control 
process show our fab­over our attention, 
ulous figures to boot.” much like that fabu-
The 1960s saw the lous new shade of OPI 
runways make the nail lacquer so artfully 
jumpsuit their own, displayed on a shelf at 
creating it in silky fab-Sephora. 
rics, bringing it to new However, I know we 
levels of comfort, and can all say with the 
in bright colors, giving greatest self assurance 
it a heretofore-unseen that while the gilded 
boldness and daring aesthetic trappings of 
quality. the red carpet and tar-
A jumpsuit is a won-mac may no longer 
derful alternative to surround us, the 
other library casual intrigue, passion, mys-
ensembles. Ranging in tery, and delectably 
material from a soft shared social whisper-
satin or silk to yoga ings are still in full 
pant material, it can force. 
enhance your study Where, especially, is experience like noth-
Nora Goebelbecker 

the place where no ing else. When buying
models the jumpsuit. 

one is immune from a jumpsuit keep fit in catching this contagion of atmos-mind: loose is good, but waist pheric electricity? Where else but accentuation is the most impor­the library. tant element. Whether it’s a high 
That professor, whose office waist or a low waist, pockets or a hours you forgot to attend after sash belt will cinch your figure, you begged him for a long-winded emphasizing form and content. explanation of that challenging Buy it strapless and pair it with algebra problem? He’s a sweater, or get a in the self-check out 
long-sleeved one and line. That really attrac­
add cuff bracelets for tive member of the 
sparkle. With a variety opposite sex with whom 
of colors, you can you recently almost 
choose the best one for shared two full sen-
you. Best of all, this is tences? You bump into 
one-stop dressing: them in the elevator. 
throw it on and you’re Your best friend? 
ready to go in 5 min-Anxiously awaiting you utes flat. Tilly’s current-
Jumpsuit, 

on the second floor ly has one for $22.99.
Tillys.com, $22.99. 

with smuggled Monsters of the library Starbucks and a treas-be gone and paparazzi ure trove of information more rel-flash away, those books and fans evant than any antiquated are calling your name. research. 
For heaven’s sake, the only The views expressed in this thing missing upon your library column are those of the author entrance is a flock of paparazzi and not necessarily those of The waiting to photograph your every Observer. move (I must confess I sometimes Contact Felicia Caponigri at wildly imagine I see them out of fcaponig@nd.edu 



Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 
MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Monday, March 7, 2011 
NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
DePaul bests Red Storm in Big East quarters 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. — Anna Martin scored 17 points to lead No. 12 DePaul to a 66-54 win over St. John’s on Sunday in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament. 
Keisha Hampton and Katherine Harry each added 10 points for the Blue Demons (27­5), and Sam Quigley had nine points and seven assists. 
Nadirah McKenith had 12 points and seven steals, Amanda Burakoski had 11 points and Da’Shena Stevens added 10 for St. John’s (21-10). 
The second-seeded Blue Demons led by nine at the half, and St. John’s could not get clos­er than seven points the rest of the way. 
The seeding is the Blue Demons’ highest since they joined the league in 2005-06. 
DePaul is now 6-5 in Big East tournament play, with all six wins coming in the team’s open­ing game. 
DePaul will play the winner of the quarterfinal between Notre Dame and Louisville on Monday. 
Much of DePaul’s offense early consisted of throwing the ball to Felicia Chester in the middle, who would kick it out to one of the perimeter players for a 3­point attempt. 
The Blue Demons made just three of their first nine from behind the arc, but shot 50 per­cent from the floor and led 19-8 midway through the first half. 
St. John’s hit just four of its first 16 shots, none of them from 3-point range. 
A 13-2 run gave DePaul a 25­10 lead with 8 minutes left in the half. But the Blue Demons had just four more points, before China Threatt hit a 3-pointer with 2 seconds left to give DePaul a 32-23 lead at the half. 
DePaul led by as many as 14 in the second half. A steal and layup by Nadirah McKenith cut the lead to 59-52 with 2 minutes left, and another McKenith layup off a turnover made it 61-54 with 1 minute remaining. 
But St. John’s was forced to foul and the Blue Demons extended the lead from the line. 
St. John’s shot just 32 percent from the floor, while DePaul hit 45 percent of its shots. 

The Blue Demons, who had 215 3-pointers in the regular season, made just five of 18 shots from behind the arc. But when the Red Storm would come out to guard them, DePaul’s guards were able to penetrate and either dish off or score. 
DePaul also won the regular-season meeting between the teams, beating St. John’s 69-54 in New York in January. 
St. John’s had won seven of its last 10 games. 
Since the start of the 2003-04 season, DePaul is 143-25 when holding opponents to less than 70 points. 
This was the first-ever meet­ing between the two schools in the conference tournament. 
St. John’s is 3-8 all-time in Big East tournament play under coach Kim Barnes Arico and has never made it past the quarterfi­nals. 
DePaul has won five of its last eight games, including a 70-69 win over Notre Dame on Feb. 28 to earn the tournament’s No. 2 seed. 

NHL 

Callahan leads the way as Rangers dominate Flyers 
Associated Press  Garden skid began two weeks earlier when the Flyers beat  Rangers were in a 4-10-1 rut. “ T h i s o n e w a s a t e a m  E a s t , l e a d s e i g h t h -p l a c e Buffalo by two points. The  g o a l s o n 3 4 Saturday’s loss,  s h o t s came on  i n in  
NEW YORK  — It’s  no  sur- New York for the fourth time  e f f o r t , ”  s a i d  H e n r i k  R a n g e r s ’  t e n u o u s  p o s i t i o n  relief.  
p r i s e  t h a t  t h e  N e w  Yo r k  in four meetings this season.  Lundqvist, who  was  sharp in  seems  somewhat better with  Callahan got the Rangers  
Rangers’ offense busted out  C a l l a h a n ,  w h o  a d d e d  a n  making 24 saves for his NHL- two consecutive wins, includ­ going 51 seconds in with  a  
with Marian Gaborik back in  assist in the third period, has  leading ninth shutout. “It felt  ing a 4-1 victory at Ottawa on  re dire cti o n of  a  pass from  
the lineup. The fact that the  10 goals and six assists in 16  l i k e  a  p l a y o f f g a m e i n t h e  Friday.  Brandon Dubinsky, and made  
t o p -l i n e  f o r w a r d  h a d  n o  games since returning from a  first half.  The Flyers, however,  are  it 2-0 with 7:02 left in the  
points in  a  blowout win  over  broken hand on Feb. 1.  “We need to build, especial- heading in the opposite direc­ first with a power-play goal.  
the Philadelphia Flyers could  “We haven’t changed  our  ly from the way we have been  tion following their most lop- Zuccarello pushed the lead  
hardly have been predicted.  s t y l e  a t  a l l , ”  h e  s a i d .  “ I  playing lately.”  sided loss since 2006.  to 3-0 at 5:06 of the second,  
R y a n  C a l l a h a n  s t o l e  t h e  b e l i e v e d  t h a t  g o a l s  w o u l d  The sluggish Flyers (40-19­ S i n c e  t a k i n g  a  2 -0  l e a d  t h e n  C a l l a h a n  c h a s e d  t h e  
show Sunday with  a  career- come.  We just didn’t get the  6) have dropped  a  season-through  one  period of  a  5-3  s h a k y  B o u c h e r.  H e  s t r u c k  
b e s t  f o u r  g o a l s  a n d  f i v e  bounces. We stuck with it.”  worst four in  a  row  and  are  h o m e  l o s s  t o  B u f f a l o  o n  a g a i n  4 : 2 0  i n t o  t h e  t h i r d  
points, and the Rangers final- New York got Gaborik back  in danger of losing their hold  Saturday, Philadelphia has  against Bobrovsky, turning  
l y  f o u n d  s o m e  s u c c e s s  a t  f o r t h e f i r s t t i m e i n  s ev e n  on  first place in the Eastern  b e e n  o u t s c o r e d  1 2 -1 .  T h e  h i s l e f t s k a t e  t o  s t e e r  t h e  
home in a dominating 7-0 vic­ games foll owing  a  concus - Conference.  Flyers could get  a  reprieve  puck into the net. Anisimov  
tory over the sliding Flyers.  sion. He said he felt good, but  “ We ’ r e  a t  t h e s t a g e  n o w  Tu e s d a y  w h e n  t h e y  h o s t  made it 6-0 with 5:19 left off  
C a l l a h a n ,  w h o  h a d  n i n e  that his timing  was  a  bit off.  where it’s  a  test of  our char- E d m o n t o n ,  t h e  l a s t -p l a c e  an  assist from Callahan, and  
previous two-goal games and  It didn’t  matter  because in  a c t e r, ”  d e f e n s e m a n  C h r i s  team in the West.  Zuccarello netted his second  
two  four-point outbursts in  addition  to  Callahan, Mats  Pronger said. “We’re facing  “It  was  a  beatdown and  a  with 1:13 remaining.  
the NHL, scored twice in the  Zuccarello added two goals,  some adversity and we’ve got  half, but it’s something that  N O T E S :  J e f f  C a r t e r,  t h e  
first period when New York  a n d  A r t e m  A n i s i m o v  a l s o  to show  our  mettle here and  we have to bounce back with  Flyers’ leading goal scorer,  
built a 2-0 lead, added anoth­ scored for the Rangers, who  understand it’s going to take  a better effort,” captain Mike  sat  out with the flu for the  
er  i n the se c ond w he n t he  snapped  a  four-game losing  some hard work to get out of  R i c h a r d s  s a i d .  “ J u s t  s t i c k  second time in three games.  
edge grew to 4-0, and netted  streak at home while wearing  it and get everybody  on  the  with the program. Don’t try  ...  Zuccarello has scored in  
his 20th of the  season  in the  their road whites at Madison  same page.  t o  d o  t o o  m u c h  o u t  t h e r e ,  c o n s e c u t i v e  g a m e s  a f t e r  
t h i r d  w i t h  a  g o a l  o f f  h i s  Square Garden for the first  “We are still in a good posi­ don’t start pointing fingers.  going 18 without  one. ...  The  
skate.  time this season.  tion, but I don’t think any-Be confident in the group.”  Flyers didn’t have any penal­ 
“When it rains it pours,”  On Friday, they asked the  body in this locker  room  is  Brian Boucher stopped only  ties in their previous visit to  
Callahan said.  F l y e rs  to  w ea r  th e ir hom e  h a p p y w i t h t h e w a y w e ’ r e  14 of 18 shots before being  MSG  on  Feb. 20, but racked  
T h e  R a n g e r s  w e r e  b a c k  orange sweaters instead. The  playing right  now.  It’s up to  pulled 6:28 into the second  up 22 minutes  on  eight calls  
home for the first time since  c h a n g e su r e l y p aid of f f o r  us to figure out a way how to  per i o d wh e n Ca l l a ha n fin -this time. They  were  0 for 5  
being swept  on  a  three-game  N e w  Yo r k ,  w h i l e  come  together and get back  ished his hat trick with  an  on  the power play, making  
h o m e s t a n d  i n  w h i c h  t h e y  Philadelphia’s  woes  contin­ to playing as a team.”  u n a s s i s t e d  g o a l .  S e r g e i  them 3 for 35 in the past 10  
w e r e  o u t s c o r e d  8 -4 .  T h e  u e d .  B e f o r e  F r i d a y,  t h e  New York, seventh in the  Bobrovsky, who allowed four  games.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Future ARCHITECTS, UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? ENGINEERS, TEACHERS, 
FOR RENT LAWYERS, BARDS, AMERICAN NOTICES Don't go it alone. PERSONAL WANTED IDOLS and other studious Bohemians. If you or someone you care about Notre Dame has many resources in SPRING BREAK SPECIAL-Write your next soliloquy at one of place to assist you. Taxi to airport or Amtrak. 
OFF-CAMPUS Housing. our off campus homes. has been sexually assaulted, Group rates as low as Earn Extra Money If you or someone you love needs $6ea. Students needed ASAP. 
Best luxury options at Check out: www.IrishDwellings.com we can help. confidential support or assistance, 574-360-6480 Earn up to $150 per day being a 
Dublin Village, Irish Crossings, to find your home for summer please call Sr. Sue Dunn at ——————————————— Mystery Shopper. 
Oak Hill and North Shore Club. and/or fall semester 2011-2012 and For more information, 1-7819. No Experience Required. beyond. It’s the hardest thing in the world to Call 1-888-534-5008 CES Property Management. visit Notre Dames website: For more information, believe in something. If you do, it’s Call 574-298-4206, $200 credit to first month rent if visit ND's website at: a miracle. www.cespm.info lease signed before spring break. http://csap.nd.edu http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Monday, March 7, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NBA 

Rose, Bulls cool Heat; Lakers win seven straight 
told the guys that I just keep clutched so James could fly 
Associated Press 
failing them late in games and I harmlessly by from the left 

MIAMI — The perspectives won’t continue to do that.” wing, and then spun a left-could not have been more dif-James scored 26 points, Bosh handed layup off the glass to cut ferent. Luol Deng either got added 23 and Wade had 20 for Miami’s lead to 54-50. pushed in the back by Mike the Heat, who put together a He skipped back upcourt, Miller on what became one of rally to take the lead in the final head back confidently, pumping the final two game-deciding minute. up teammates. And Rose stayed moments, or tripped over his The Heat were down 82-76 that way until the finish. own feet stumbling for a with 3:30 left when Rose made a “We’re just taking it for what rebound. jumper over Miller, before Mario it is,” Rose said. “We’re just try-
That point could be argued. Chalmers led the comeback ing to win games, play hard and 
What’s inarguable, however, is effort. He hit a 3-pointer to tie it play aggressive on both ends.” this: Another final-second with 1:05 left, then blew past a opportunity slipped away from closeout for an easy layup from Lakers 99, Spurs 83 the Miami Heat, and the Chicago the left side that put the Heat Kobe Bryant agreed it might Bulls — spurned last summer in ahead 86-84 with 25 seconds have been the Lakers’ best their bids to land Dwyane Wade, remaining. game so far. LeBron James and Chris Bosh With Chicago down by two, It technically wasn’t the worst 
— swept all three regular-sea-Deng made one free throw, for the San Antonio Spurs, son meetings from the team that missing the second. Noah got a though it often looked that way. signed them. hand on the ball, keeping James The Lakers may not catch the 
The Big 3? They’re No. 3 in and Erick Dampier from grab-NBA’s winningest team for the the East at this point, after bing it cleanly, and in the chase No. 1 seed in time for the play-Derrick Rose scored 27 points, for the carom referee Tony offs, but they handed the Spurs the Spurs took their own lumps. way the game presented itself, Deng capped an 18-point effort Brothers called a foul on Miller a blunt reminder that the The NBA’s sixth-highest scoring they were making every shot. with two free throws on a for pushing Deng in the back. Western Conference is still team mustered just 37 points in We couldn’t make layups, 3s, debated play with 15.9 seconds “Looked like he tripped on his theirs to surrender, beating San the first half — matching a sea-free throws, anything.” remaining, and the Bulls beat own,” Bosh said. Antonio 99-83 in a blowout son low — and shot 36 percent San Antonio’s most lopsided Miami 87-86 on Sunday to hand Deng went back to the line Sunday. from the floor. defeat this season was a 24­the Heat their fourth straight and made both this time, putting Bryant, who finished with 26 And it could’ve been worse. point loss at New Orleans on loss. Chicago in front. points, didn’t make much of it. The Lakers led by as many as Jan. 22. 
“The Miami Heat are exactly “That’s the right call,” Rose “I don’t think it’s that big of a 32 in third quarter before the Derek Fisher scored eight what everyone wanted, losing said. message that we sent today,” he Spurs threw in the towel and points and remained in the games,” Wade said. “The world The ball went to James, who said. emptied their bench. starting lineup after being listed is better now because the Heat drove on Noah and missed a It was the seventh straight vic-“They hit us in the mouth as probable going into the game is losing.” layup from the left block. Wade tory for the Lakers, who are from the beginning and by the because of a strained right 
Carlos Boozer scored 12 and got the rebound, tried a 15-foot-playing as well as any point this time we realized it, it was the elbow. Joakim Noah added 11 for the er from the baseline that season. Coach Phil Jackson con-ninth round and we were down Bulls, who moved a game ahead bounced away, and time expired cedes that San Antonio’s 6½-on the scorecard,” Spurs guard Thunder 122, Suns 118 of Miami into outright posses-as the Bulls leaped in celebra-game lead in the West may be Gary Neal said. Russell Westbrook had 32 sion of second place in the tion and Thibodeau punched the too big to overcome with 18 Pau Gasol scored 21 points points and 11 assists, James Eastern Conference. Chicago air. games left. But the Lakers still and Andrew Bynum had 17 Harden matched his career high was down by 12 late in the first “We’re just trying to play the made a few marks. rebounds for the Lakers, who with 26 points and the half, then became the fourth best we can,” Noah said. “I One is emphatically ending can match their longest win Oklahoma City Thunder over-team since Feb. 24 to erase a think we still have a long way to San Antonio’s franchise-record streak of the season with a vic-came an off night by NBA scor­double-digit deficit against the go and we can get a lot better. home winning streak at 22 tory at Atlanta on Tuesday. ing leader Kevin Durant to beat Heat. That’s what is so exciting about games. Another is beating the It’s part of arguably the tough-the Phoenix Suns in overtime on 
“We have guys who can this team. Our defense is really Spurs for the first time in three est stretch this season for the Sunday night. close,” Bulls coach Tom improving. We can still improve tries, including last month’s Lakers, who are still out to Vince Carter led Phoenix with Thibodeau said. offensively as well. We can take stunning loss in Los Angeles prove they’re the NBA’s best 29 points but missed two of 
Few would say that Miami this pretty far.” when Antonio McDyess tipped in despite trailing the Spurs all three free throws with the doesn’t — but closing games has Spoelstra said some players the game-winner at the buzzer. season. The Lakers will also chance to put the Suns ahead been, and continues to be, the were moved to tears in the Heat Bryant, for his part, didn’t play at Miami and at Dallas with 17.4 seconds left. Steve biggest Heat challenge. locker room. This much is clear: show any excitement in winning before coming home to face Nash missed a potential tying 3­
James had a chance to win it He and the Heat are hurting. this round. Orlando on March 14. pointer after that, and the on a drive with 6 seconds left, “One of these days, we will “Why should I be?” he said. By the time the Magic leave Thunder were able to close it missing a contested shot, and break through,” Spoelstra said. Instead, Bryant sought to keep Los Angeles, the Lakers will out from the foul line. Wade’s desperation toss from Down nine at the half, the the lopsided win in perspective. have faced four of the NBA’s top Durant made a season-low the right baseline bounced away Bulls shot 39 percent in the “We know we’re capable of seven teams in a span of eight three baskets on 14 attempts as time expired. third quarter, still managing to having games like this and San days. and scored 18 points, 11 of 
Those were the 12th and 13th outscore Miami 23-16 thanks to Antonio knows we’re capable of Jackson called it the best the them on free throws. consecutive shots that the Heat five Heat turnovers, a 14-9 edge having games like this,” he said. Lakers have played all season Reserves Marcin Gortat and have missed with a chance to tie in rebounding — and Rose, who “It just as easily could go the against this caliber opponent. Mickael Pietrus each added 20 or lead a game in the final 10 made a ridiculous shot early in other way around.” “We need to be at our peak points for Phoenix. seconds of regulation or over-the period look ridiculously sim-Tony Parker led the Spurs later on,” Gasol said. “Not right Nash had 11 points and 14 time. James has missed four in ple. with 14 points. He was their now.” assists, moving past Isiah this four-game losing streak Even a 1-on-2 break — him only starter in double figures; The last Spurs loss at the Thomas for sixth place on the alone. against Wade and James, no Tim Duncan scored two points AT&T Center had been to Dallas NBA’s career assists list. He now 
“I told my team, I’m not going less — went Chicago’s way. Rose and Manu Ginobili scored six. on Nov. 26. But that 103-94 has 9,066 and trails only John to continue to fail late in bumped slightly into Wade to Two days after San Antonio defeat wasn’t anything like this. Stockton, Jason Kidd, Mark games,” James said. “I put a lot create separation on his drive humiliated LeBron James and Bryant finished 12 for 25 and Jackson, Magic Johnson and of blame on myself tonight. I downcourt, then leaped, double-Miami in a 30-point blowout, had seven rebounds. His only Oscar Robertson. 
blemish was a technical foul in The Thunder trailed most of the second quarter after getting regulation, then allowed tangled up with Ginobili, leading Phoenix to rally back from a to a brief exchange of stares and seven-point deficit in the final 3 words. minutes to tie it at 109. 
Ron Artest rushed between Oklahoma City then scored the the two and pulled Bryant away. first five points of overtime It was Bryant’s 14th technical before giving up back-to-back 3­foul this season, though he pointers by Jared Dudley and stands at 12 after having two Carter to fall behind again. rescinded. The NBA issues a Harden answered with a one-game suspension after 16 three-point play off a fast-break technical fouls. dunk to put Oklahoma City 
The last time the Spurs and ahead 116-115 with 34 seconds Lakers met was in Los Angeles left in overtime and the Thunder on Feb. 3, when the Spurs won were able to protect that lead 89-88 on McDyess’ tip-in as time when Carter came up empty at expired. Jackson had his video the foul line. staff pull that clip before this Phoenix lost for just the sec-one and remind his team of a ond time in its last eight road game Jackson said they games and finished its longest should’ve won. road trip of the season 4-2. The 
It apparently worked. Suns also lost Channing Frye — 
Neal scored 15 points and who had hit two game-winning George Hill added 14 for the shots on the trip — to a shoul-Spurs. der injury in the fourth quarter 
“Nobody expects to be losing after he had scored 11 points by more than 20 in the first and pulled down a career-high quarter,” Ginobili said. “But the 15 rebounds. 



page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 7, 2011 

Victory 
continued from page 20 
No. 2 doubles, falling 9-7 to Andrew McCarthy and Tobias Reitz. 
The Irish got off to a strong start in singles, however, with No. 124 Havens defeating Wolf 6-2, 6-2 at No. 2. 
Senior Dan Stahl was able to finish off McCarthy 6-4, 6-4, at No. 3 singles to give the Irish a 2­1 advantage. 
Sophomore Blas Moros was able to come up with a big win for the Irish at No. 5 singles over Smith 6-2, 7-5, to pull the Irish to within one point of the victory. 
Andrews then defeated Reitz 7­5, 6-2, at No. 4 to clinch the victo­ry for the Irish. 
No. 64 Watt defeated Graves 7­6, 6-4 at No. 1 singles. 
Anderson meanwhile came back strong after dropping the first set 7-6 to Jackman, he came back to claim the second, 7-6, and eventually won the match in a 10-point tie breaker. 
Friday was not as successful for Notre Dame, as the day began with the Aggies sweeping the doubles competition. 
Fitzgerald and Talmadge played the closest match at No. 1, losing 8-6 to Jeff Dadamo and Austin Krajicek. 
The duo of Havens and Davis fell 8-3 at No. 2 doubles to Alexey Grigorov and Junior Ore. Watt and Andrews fell by the same score at No. 3 to Alberto Bautista and Colin Hoover. 
“All of our doubles teams have made good strides this year, but particularly at No. 2 and No. 3, where we have become pretty darn good,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “We knew that [Havens] and [Davis] were going to be a potent combo because they have good skills and plenty of experience, but the maturation of [Fitzgerald] and [Talmadge] has been great to see.” 
The Aggies quickly took a 3-0 lead when Grigorov took down Andrews 6-4, 6-3, at No. 4 sin­gles. Hoover then took down Fitzgerald at No. 5, 6-3, 6-3. 
At No. 3 singles Stahl earned a hard fought win over No. 80 Alexis Klegou 7-6 (5), 6-3. 
No. 64 Watt lost his first set 6­4, but battled back to win the second 6-3 off of No. 38 Krajicek before dropping the third set 6-3 at No. 1. 
No. 55 Dadamo defeated Havens 6-7 (8-6), 7-6 (4), `1-0 (11-9) at No. 2. 
At No. 6 senior David Anderson was able to defeat Bautista also in three sets 6-4, 4-6, 1-0 (10-3) to give the Irish their second and final point of the day. 
The Irish will next play host to Illinois on Tuesday with matches beginning at 6 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Center. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba01@saintmarys.edu 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Five records set at Alex Wilson Invitational 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
The Irish excelled at the Alex Wilson Invitational over the week­end as five records were rewritten at the Loftus Sports Center in two days of competition. 
An unattached Mark Hollis rewrote the first record of the weekend on Friday, with a finish of 5.63 meters in the pole vault. 
Three more records were newly set on Saturday. Notre Dame alumna Molly Huddle (’06) set the first record with an 8:57.30 finish in the 3,000-meter finals, the fastest time ever seen in Loftus for the event. 
The next record to fall was in the 800-meter for the Alex Wilson Invitational, set by Minnesota’s Harun Abda with a time of 1:47.95. 
Mary Saxer, a 2009 Notre Dame graduate, set a new standard in the women’s pole vault with a mark at 4.26 meters. 
Notre Dame senior Rudy Atang set a school record in the women’s shot put, breaking her own per­sonal best finish of 15.64 to rewrite program history. The dis­tance, however, was only good enough to place her third in the event. 
The Irish saw other notable per­formances on both the men and women’s sides. 
Senior Jasmine Williams took third in triple jump with a dis­tance of 11.81 meters while fresh­man Michelle Brown came in fifth in the 400-meter race with a time of 55.03. 
On the men’s side, freshman Logan Renwick came in third place in the triple jump with a dis­tance of 14.80 meters and senior Denes Veres shot put a distance of 
17.58 meters to earn a fifth place finish. Junior Doug Onuscheck came in fifth place in the high jump with a leap of 2.01 meters. 
The men’s distance medley relay team came in third place registering a time of 9:31.99, qualifying junior Jonathan Shawel, freshman Patrick Feeney, fifth year Jack Howard and sopho­more Jeremy Rae for the National Indoor Championships Mar. 11-12 at Texas A&M in College Station, Tex. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

Winning streak snapped 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 

Despite snapping a nine-game winning streak with two tough losses at the Diamond 9 Citrus Classic this weekend, the Irish managed to start a new one with three wins to finish out the event on Sunday, leaving their record at 3-2 for the weekend and 12-2 overall. 
Facing two undefeated teams back-to-back Friday at the Disney Wide World of Sports Complex in Kissimmee, Fla., Notre Dame struggled against standout pitching and persistent defense. 
Longwood pitcher Briana Wells was able to limit Notre Dame to a mere two hits in seven innings, recording two strikeouts in the process. Sophomores Amy Buntin and Jackie Bowe managed to notch two singles for the Irish. Irish freshman Laura Winter put in 
4.1 innings on the mound, giving up just one earned run on five hits with six strikeouts. Despite the freshman’s effort, Notre Dame fell 2-0. 
The Irish faced more standout pitching in their second contest from No. 1 Alabama’s Jacie Traina, who pitched the entire game, amassing 12 strikeouts for the Crimson Tide. Senior Jody Valdiva recorded eight strikeouts of her own for the Irish, but they weren’t enough to compensate for the team’s offen­sive woes. 
Notre Dame was able to find a few openings in the sixth inning, but it was only able to produce one run on four hits and left two runners stranded. Ultimately Notre Dame fell 6-1. 
“The first day we played it was just a bad day. We didn't play our best softball versus either team, which resulted in the loss­es,” Irish senior catcher Alexia Clay said. “We don't know if we could beat Alabama because we didn't play our best softball that day; we would have to play them again on our best day. We shook it off and the next day rallied together and put some good wins up.” 
The Irish came back swinging the next day , kicking off their Saturday with an eight-inning 4­3 win over North Carolina. Despite solid pitching from the Tar Heels’ NFCA National Player of the Week Lori Spingola, the Irish were strong at the plate, led by two hits apiece from Buntin and junior Dani Miller. In the fourth Buntin blasted a game-typing home run, and later came through with a single that sent Miller to third. Clay con­tributed a sacrifice fly to pull Miller in with the game-winning run. Valdiva was solid on the mound for the Irish, pitching eight innings with seven strike­outs and just two earned runs. 
“The game against UNC really showed how we play as a team,” Maldonado said. “Being in con­trol of the game and coming from behind to win showed our team's true character. That was Notre Dame softball." 
Continuing on their newfound win streak the Irish took down Maryland by a count of 5-3, led by Miller and senior Heather Johnson with two hits each. Irish senior relief pitcher Shannon Kelly came up big with a strike­out leaving three Maryland run­ners on base in the seventh, but the hero of the day was Winter, who notched five shutout innings. 
Clay said that Saturday’s wins were not a result of a single player’s dominance, but rather a result of the Irish squad regrouping and pulling it togeth­er. 
“They were team wins and we had good momentum the whole day,” she said. 
Junior outfielder Alexa Maldonado felt much of the same, saying that Friday’s losses were not the team’s typical play. 
“"[Day one] was disappoint­ing,” Maldonado said. “We were not ourselves and did not play Notre Dame softball. The next day we came out ready to play. The game against UNC really showed how we play as a team.” 
Winter continued her domi­nance from the circle Sunday as Notre Dame dismantled Fordham 6-0. Once again Johnson, Miller, Bunton and Clay contributed to balanced hitting for the Irish. Junior catcher Kristina Wright starred with a double to plate Clay and Bowe in the fourth. 
Clay said that the Irish carried the success they achieved on Saturday into Sunday’s match up against Fordham, giving her a good feeling as the team moves forward. 
“We carried that into today [Sunday] and played a great game against Fordham,” she said. “Overall we aren't happy about our first day but we had a respectable comeback and we are feeling good about our team and this season so far.” 
The performance was enough to amount to a winning weekend for Notre Dame. The Irish now have a week off before heading to the Judi Garman Classic in California next weekend. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish split decisions over weekend 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 

The weekend brought split results for the No. 14 Irish, who came out on top against Indiana Friday by a score of 6-1, but were unable to over­come No. 7 Baylor on Sunday, falling 4-2. 
Notre Dame (8-5) had little difficulty coming out on top against Indiana, posting their ninth-straight win against the Hoosiers. Despite a rocky start in the first match of both doubles and singles, the team pulled together. 
On the doubles front, the Hoosiers started strong by defeating first-time partners freshman JoHanna Manningham and sophomore Chrissie McGaffigan, 8-4, at the No. 3 position. The loss had no effect, however, as 26th-ranked juniors Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews, who kept their six-match wining streak alive, took down Leslie Hureau and Myriam Sopel, 8-5. Continuing their improvement at No. 2 doubles were freshmen Jennifer Kellner and Julie Sabacinski, clinching the dou­bles point for the team. 
“I think I really started hit­ting more aggressive lately, which has helped me tremen­dously,” Kellner said. 
Singles began with the No. 6 matchup, where Manningham was unable to hang with Sophie Garre, falling 6-2, 6-1. But as with doubles, Frilling and Mathews bounced right back, each improving their singles winning streaks to 11 matches. No. 32 Mathews tri­umphed over Evgeniya Vertesheva 6-3, 6-1 in the No. 2 spot, followed by third-ranked Frilling in the No. 1 spot, where she defeated 61st-ranked Hureau 6-2, 6-1. 
Freshman Kellner came through for the second time, taking the singles point that determined a match win for the Irish. Positioned at No. 3 for the first time, she tri­umphed over Charlotte Martin, 6-2, 6-1. 
“I still have a lot to improve, [but] it always feels really good when I’m able to con­tribute to the win,” Kellner said. “It’s a great feeling to help out my teammates.” 
From there, Sabacinski and McGaffigan closed out the match, taking down Hoosiers Sopel at No. 5, 6-4, 4-6, 1-0, and Kayla Fujimoto, 7-6, 6-4, at No. 4. 
Even with momentum from the win over Indiana, the Bears were too much for the Irish. Baylor took the doubles point and proceeded to easily win three singles matches, enough to secure the victory Sunday. 
In doubles, Frilling and Mathews continued their streak at No. 1 yet again, defeating Nina Secerbegovic and Jelena Stanivuk, but it was not enough to earn the doubles point after losses in the second and third doubles spots. Secerbegovic and Stavivuk bounced back to defeat Irish pair McGaffigan and senior Kristen Rafael, and the first-time duo of Taylor Ormond and Karolina Filipiak took down Kellner and Sabacinski. 
When it came to the singles division, Frilling and Kellner continued their success from the previous singles competi­tion, but Mathews was unable to convert, falling 6-1, 6-2 to No. 51 Secerbegovic. No. 94 Stanivuk overcame McGaffigan at No. 5 and 36th­ranked Diana Nakic clinched the match with her singles point against No. 95 Rafael. 
The Irish next travel to Tampa, Fla., where they will face South Florida, Duke and Tennessee March 15. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 

Monday, March 7, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MEN’S GOLF 

Golfers get break, practice outdoors 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
The No. 26 Irish received a welcome break from competi­tion on Saturday as they par­ticipated in the Alumni Matches in Scottsdale, Ariz., a series of rounds between cur­rent and past Notre Dame golfers at the Whisper Rock Golf Club, which also allowed the team get some outdoors practice for a change. 
Irish coach Jim Kubinski said the laid-back atmosphere was fun, but that it also allowed his squad to get some work in areas that cannot be easily replicated by the indoor facilities at Warren Golf Course. 
“They went about a lot of different things,” he said. “The big thing is we’re out in the wind. We can’t simulate that indoors. Also, the guys got a lot of work on their 
w e dge  sho ts,  pl ayi ng  i n  
grass.”  
Arriving in Scottsdale  on  

Thursday with the entire team, the Irish practiced Friday and competed Saturday, before practicing more on Sunday and heading home. 
1961 graduate Michael Geddes paced the alumni while juniors Max Scodro and Chris Walker led the current Irish with rounds of 70 and 71 on Saturday, respectively. Besides performing well on the course, Walker con­tributed greatly to Notre Dame’s time in Arizona. A club member at Whisper Rock, Walker’s grandfather Joe Moeller hosted the Irish for the long weekend. Kubinski was especially pleased with the hospitality Moeller showed his squad. 
“It was fantastic,” Kubinski said. “I can’t thank Joe Moeller enough, he did a fan­tastic job. We got to play at some phenomenal courses.” 
In addition to playing at Whisper Rock, the Irish also had the opportunity to play at Scottsdale’s renowned Estancia Club. 
Kubinski said the alumni always enjoy playing the cur­rent Irish golfers, a tradition that has been in place since he came to Notre Dame. 
“A lot of the alumni told me they really enjoy playing us,” Kubinski said. “We’ve played this every year, and this is our second time in Scottsdale. It’s just a great event for every­one.” 
The extra practice Notre Dame got over the weekend comes just in time for a tough stretch over spring break. The Irish square off against Yale in Greensboro, Ga., on Monday. The following weekend they will be competing in the Schenkel E-Z-GO Invitational in Statesboro, Ga., an event Kubinski said has one of the top competitive fields in the nation. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
FENCING 

Irish earn 15 medals at home 

By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 

The No. 1 Irish men’s and women’s fencing teams won a total 15 medals at the Midwest Fencing Conference Championships this week­end. 
Winning gold in two of the six individual tournaments highlighted the performance for the Irish, who also brought home four silvers and nine bronzes. 
Senior Hayley Reese cap­tured gold in the women’s foil in the morning session by going 6-0 in her pool bouts. Reese defeated Irish freshman Rachel Beck 11-9 in the semifinals and then took out Northwestern's Dayana Sarkisova to take home the gold. 
Irish Freshman Adriana Camacho came in a tie for third in the foil. 
Junior Courtney Hurley won her second gold in three years in the épée, but it was not without some difficulty. She won hard fought bouts in both the semifinals and finals, defeating Karalina Collins of Northwestern 15-8 in the semifinals, and hold­ing off Caroline Piasecka of Ohio State by a score of 15­11 to secure the gold in the finals. 
Senior Sarah Borrmann earned the silver in the women’s sabre competition. Her run came to an end in the finals with a 15 -10 defeat to Ohio State’s Margarita Tschomakova. 
The Irish had three other fencers in the quarterfinals: sophomore Lian Osier, senior Eileen Hassett and sopho­more Marta Stepien, but Borrmann was the only one to earn a medal. 
On the men’s side, junior Enzo Castellani won the sil­ver in the men’s foil. Castellani went 6-0 in pool play and was the top seed heading into the direct elimi­nation portion of the compe­tition. He defeated teammate Nick Kubik in the semifinals by a score of 15-9 before los­ing to Ohio State’s Zain Shaito in the finals. 
In the men’s sabre division, senior Barron Nydam earned the silver for the Irish. Like Castellani, Nydam went 6-0 in pool play and was the top seed heading into the direct elimination. He defeated teammate Jason Choy in the semifinals, but then, like many Irish fencers this weekend, fell to a Buckeye in the finals. Ohio State’s Rhys Douglas defeated Nydam 15­9 in the championship bout. 
The Irish will begin their championship run next Saturday at the NCAA Regionals at Wayne State in Detroit. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 


SMC TENNIS 
Belles look to continue early season success 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s hopes the momen­tum gained in a dominating 8-1 win over John Carroll Feb. 27 transfers to their home opener in a non-conference match against St. Mary’s (Minn.) tonight at the Eck Tennis Pavilion at Notre Dame. 
St. Mary’s (Minn.) enters tonight’s match coming off of a 6­3 win over Edgewood College (Wisc.), which ended their two-game losing streak. 
The Cardinals (4-4, 0-3) are led by No. 1 singles player Bailey Edwards, who is 10-2 in her matches this season, including a top-eight individual finish at the USTA/ITA Regional Championships in late September. The junior defeated opponent and No. 1 Edgewood singles play­er Hannah Pincsak on Saturday with ease, winning both sets 6-0. 
Saint Mary’s No. 1 singles play­er, senior Jillian Hurley (1-2) will be faced with the task of match­ing up against Edwards. Meanwhile, senior Jessica Kosinski will face Edwards’ soph­omore sister, Killian, who made her first appearance of the sea­son Saturday against Edgewood, winning in straight sets. 
On the doubles side, the Belles will look for improvement from their top doubles tandem of Hurley and freshman Mary Catherine Faller, who have yet to win this season and accounted for the lone loss to John Carroll. They will be matched against the Cardinals’ duo of both Edwards sisters. 
Last weekend, the Belles (1-2) rebounded to defeat John Carroll after a disappointing 7-2 loss to Case Western Reserve the day before. 
Senior Mary Therese Lee and freshman Kathleen Klauer, the Belles No. 5 and No. 6 singles players, respectively, both domi­nated the weekend matches in Cleveland and will look to contin­ue their success tonight. Lee defeated Case Western’s Kathleen Evers in three sets, including a narrow 10-8 victory in the third set, and John Carroll’s Emily Gorndt in straight sets. Klauer meanwhile won both of her matches in straight sets. 
The Belles swing into their home season tonight at 7 p.m. against St. Mary’s (Minn.) at Notre Dame’s Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 7, 2011 
Oloriz leveled the senior with for the third round so I could a violent right hook at the end finish strong.” 
Thrill 

of the first. But the fast pace But Powers unleashed a continued from page 20 wore the sophomore down, as fury of punches at the start of 
Enzweiler was able to take the third round, landing mul­pin him against the ropes. But control of the match, inter-tiple strikes to the sopho ­every time Sassetti opened up rupting Oloriz’s uppercuts more’s head and body. Alberdi to strike his opponent, with combinations late in the returned with a shot to Peterson met him with a flur-second round. Powers’ head, but he tired as ry of jabs to the head that Oloriz knew he had to finish the fight went on as he kept Sassetti on the defensive strong in the third, but exposed himself to the up until the end of the second Enzweiler kept his distance senior’s unyielding attack that round. from the sophomore’s quick earned him the unanimous 
“I knew that he was going to jabs with long strikes that decision, sending the presi­come at me really aggressive limited Oloriz’s speed. dent out with a title. so I was going to try counter Enzweiler landed a few “It was crazy mix of happy [when he came at me],” punches to Oloriz’s headgear and sad with it being my last Peterson said. “I was able to at the end of the third to seal fight,” the senior said. “I was succeed at that [in] the first the win by unanimous deci-ecstatic about winning and two rounds, but in the third sion. how well the tournament round I got tired and he start-“It feels unbelievable, espe-went for raising money, but at ed hitting me hard.” cially since I don’t usually win the same time bummed that it 
The first two rounds were at stuff like this, but I finally was over. Boxing has really dominated by Peterson, but found a sport where being been my life for the last cou-Sassetti made a valiant effort long and lanky is an advan-ple years, so I guess I'll have In the third round, Salvi box him but he came up pret­at a comeback in the third. tage,” Enzweiler said. to find a new hobby.” continued to use his unortho-ty hard, and it became sort of Sassetti was on the attack the dox stance and repeated a brawl, which isn’t my piece entire round, knocking 157 pounds 167 pounds dekes to keep Joe guessing. of cake,” Bennett said. Peterson into the ropes multi-Colin “The Lion” King def. Brian “Yeah, Cool Beans” After he absorbed a Joe left The second round was full ple times, while he used left-Paul “Hawaii K.O.” Hayes Salvi def. Jake “One Blow” hook, Salvi returned with a of action — but only when right combinations to keep In an epic back-and-forth Joe series of quick left jabs that there were not any tie-ups. Peterson off balance. The late match that featured six med-In one of the few fights with Joe never fully recovered Following a couple quick right effort was not enough, howev-ical timeouts and the loudest a defensive character, neither from. In such a defensive jabs from Bennett, Severyn er, as Peterson took the title ovation of the night, the soph-the law student Salvi nor the bout, neither boxer was really responded with a flurry of by unanimous decision. omore King edged out a split-sophomore Joe landed any big ever off balance. In the end, body shots, only to be tied up 
decision victory over the sen-early punches. While Salvi Salvi won by unanimous deci-by Bennett. The repeated tie­148 pounds ior Hayes in a total slugfest. applied a little pressure, he sion. ups drew loud jeers from Kevin Ortenzio def. Ryan Hayes started out with the still used a very defensive “You put in a ton of work, a fans, who thought Bennett “Welcome to the Jungle” upper hand, beginning the mindset to keep Joe, who ton of blood, sweat and tears was striking Severyn when Slaney fight by landing big shots on applied little if any pressure, so when you get all the way to Severyn’s arms were wrapped 
From the match’s onset, King and ending with three at bay in the first round. the end, it makes up for around Bennett. Ortenzio’s speed was too straight shots to the sopho-“I think given my height and everything,” Salvi said. “So it While the first two rounds much for Slaney’s length as more’s face. The trend contin-reach being defensive was the took me two years, but I can’t were not particularly slow, the junior won by unanimous ued into the second round way to go because then I tell you how happy I am.” the rapid third round made decision. Ortenzio began with when Hayes knocked King could kind of dictate the pace them seem that way. As soon a sweeping left hook that down twice with huge swings and keep him on the outside 170 pounds as the bell rang, the two box-caught the senior off guard to the head, with King bounc-and not let him pick up any Greg Bennett def. Nick ers quickly traded blows, and set the tone for the ing up immediately both points on the inside,” Salvi Severyn unleashing any saved energy match. Slaney relied on his times. This series was the said. In the 170-pound champi-they had left. Severyn seemed reach to keep Ortenzio off-turning point for King, who The pace, however, picked onship, both fighters landed to gain an advantage when an balance for much of the first bombarded Hayes with head-up in the second round. Still several shots in an energetic, uppercut and a barrage of round. shots, almost knocking the focused on defense, the short-aggressive fight. In the first hooks forced the referee to 
“It was a much different senior out of the ring with a er Joe was able to avoid a few round, Bennett used his quick pause the match. Bennett, fight than what I had previous series of blows against the of Salvi’s attempted big hits. feet to avoid the captain however, pulled out the unan­rounds because this one was ropes. Salvi was able to land a trio of Severyn’s lunging punches. imous decision. a lot more strategic,” Ortenzio “My strategy was to not get right hooks midway through Bennett said he had to tweak “I have to give it up to all said. “He was a smart boxer; hit like this, but once you get the second round that put him his game plan a bit to match my fans, as usual, who did a he obviously has the good hit like this you need to in control and Joe on the up with Severyn. fundamentals down and respond,” King said. “I never ropes. “Originally, I wanted to out-see BOUTS/page 17 everything, so it took a lot of really felt on top the whole effort on my part because not time but I just kept giving it 
only did I have to really my best and I guess that punch, I had to find open-worked.” ings.” The third round capped off 
Ortenzio trusted his quick a thrilling match as Hayes jabs, eventually landing an landed a succession of shots imposing one-two combina-to King’s head while King tion straight to Slaney’s head returned with a massive blow late in the second round. The that snapped the senior’s momentum carried over into head back. But both the third round, where embraced immediately at the Ortenzio looked even more bell, amid a standing ovation energized, countering every that rocked the Purcell attempt by Slaney. Pavilion. 
“I don’t want to necessarily “I really can’t say enough say it’s a dream come true but about Paul Hayes,” King said. I guess it kind of is,” Ortenzio “He’s just a tremendous com-said. “I mean you work this petitor. The man does not long and hard and finally it stop. I felt like I was being comes up and your arm gets chased down the whole fight.” raised and it’s the greatest feeling.” 160 pounds 
Bobby Powers def. Ryan 154 pounds Alberdi Thomas “The Mean Justifies The poised Bengal Bouts the ” Enzweiler def. Alex president used experience to “Gatito Loco” Oloriz his advantage, outlasting his 
Slow but steady set the pace opponent. The two-time win-for the tall and lanky ner has never missed the Enzweiler, as the senior finals, and it showed as seemed to gain confidence Powers used a balanced and energy as the fight went attack of body strikes and on. Oloriz — sporting classic counter jabs to wear down Chuck Taylors — started fast, Alberdi. The sophomore never using his low center of bal-was able to land a series of ance to create leverage clean shots on Powers, who against the taller Enzweiler. repeatedly dodged punches 
“I had fought him before in while countering with combi­practice; we’ve sparred a cou-nations in the first round. In ple of times and I knew he the second round, Alberdi was fast with good hand came out with a different speed,” Enzweiler said. “He approach, going on the defen­can really charge at you so I sive while trying the occasion-had to keep my long shots and al uppercut. jabs out there to keep him at “My strategy was to stay a distance and move laterally calm and fight smart,” Powers to try and get out of the way said. “The two-minute rounds of his flurries.” of the finals take so much 
This speed was displayed at more energy, and I knew I the end of the first round, as was going to need to save it 



Monday, March 7, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
feel ecstatic.” the end of the fight, however, it would be the senior Doran 
Bouts 

182 pounds supplying the headshots to his continued from page 16 Mike “Nobody Puts Baby in fellow senior Straccia. 
a Corner” Urciuoli def. Tyler Doran, a Bengal Bouts cap-this year in the tournament “Tuna” Plantz tain, seemed tentative in the and actually last year,” A match-up pitting the sen-first round while Straccia Bennett said. “It’s great to ior Urciuoli against the fresh-looked comfortable, moving know that they’re going to be man Plantz was rampant with around the ring with ease. around next year, as well.” adrenaline early, causing wild Straccia used his jab to set up 
punches early from both box-his monstrous right hook 176 pounds ers. Urciuoli threw — and early on, landing one particu-Dominic “The Warsaw missed — on some big hooks larly vicious punch on Doran. Warhammer ” Golab def. early. Plantz, standing a Doran, however, was able to Bernardo “Blue” Garcia stocky 5-foot-6, landed a slew counterpunch effectively. 
A fight between the return-of hooks and uppercuts to end “My defense and my reach ing three -time champion the first round with Urciuoli are my two strong points, so Garcia and Bengal Bouts cap-on the ropes. those coupled together make tain and co-president Golab “I went in with a lot of strat-me a strong counterpuncher,” lived up to its high expecta-egy and 30 seconds into the Doran said. “I like it when my tions. After an early feeling-first round, that all went out opponent comes at me and out period, Golab was able to the door,” Urciuoli said. I’m able just to dodge and weather the early storm and The second round was a counter their attack.” hooks. Yi responded, however, Arnold. avoid Garcia’s quick hands by mere continuation of the first Doran kept to his defense in with right hooks that, on sep-Arnold, a law student, came ducking and dipping out of round with lots of traded the second round, ducking arate occasions, forced Sarkis out of the gate with a storm of the way. punches but no real momen-away from a few sweeping off-balance. early uppercuts that caught 
“My strategy was staying as tum or giant blows. Both hooks from Straccia. Doran “Honestly, I was afraid and I the shorter Crepeau. Later on relaxed as possible the first Urciuoli and Plantz showed was also able to fire jabs in was nervous, but at the same in the round, Arnold’s bull two rounds,” Golab said. “I surprisingly adept defense for between Straccia’s hands and time I was confident, kept rush succeeded in pushing was trying to feel him out how aggressive the match into his face. Following the myself calm, tried to keep Crepeau off-balance. [and] see what works and was. Each fighter was able to first round, Straccia refused breathing, going through the “He’s so powerful, the plan what doesn’t and really not duck and slide as well as to use the corner stool. After fight in my head, because the was stay away from his power getting too excited and too negate big punches with the energetic second round, biggest thing for me was men-and score points when I wild so that when I enter the counterpunches of his own. however, he called for it tal preparation,” Yi said. could,” Crepeau said. third, it’s my round that I’ll be Plantz, wearing throwback almost immediately. After a somewhat frantic “Because his hands were a lit-in better shape and that I’ll basketball high-tops instead Doran came out in the third first round, the second round tle low, I was able to score a be able to win it.” of traditional boxing shoes, round with an extra pep in his slowed down dramatically. couple points in every round. 
An aggressive Golab got on forgot his mouthpiece to start step, using that excess energy Sarkis’ wide hooks opened up And really, I just won on offense almost immediately, the final round. But that — to land jab combos, forcing the middle for Yi to attack points, not anything other firing body shots and forcing and a lost contact lens earlier Straccia to the ropes and even with sharp jabs and score than that.” the more upright Garcia to — did not stop him from com-causing a stumble from his points. Crepeau flipped the script in the ropes. Garcia, however, ing out strong in the third. foe. Doran collected his sec-In the third round, both the second round, taking the responded with his own Plantz hammered away at the ond consecutive championship fighters’ fatigue was evident part of the aggressor and punches to end a fairly even tiring Urciuoli with right by unanimous decision. in their punches. After a attacking high with his left second round and set up a hooks and uppercuts, placing “There was not as much sequence of close compact hand and low with his right third round that would deter-his opponent off balance. pressure, because I was a body shots, a powerful right hand. The southpaw Crepeau mine the outcome of the fight. Urciuoli was able to connect captain this year, and I trav-hook from Yi pushed Sarkis landed jabs and uppercuts to 
While Golab, once again, on a few jabs, though, scoring eled to Bangladesh this last into the ropes and paused the coerce Arnold into a tie-up. came out somewhat aggres-points in his favor. Ultimately, summer and so the mission fight momentarily. Yi took The momentum had started to sively with a bull rush and Urciuoli won by split decision. became what this was about advantage of the tiring Sarkis swing. body shots, Garcia responded “I’ve come close before. I to me and the boxing was just at the end, landing a jab that When the third round came, by holding and tying up the made it to the semis last year icing on the cake,” Doran coincided with the last bell of Crepeau was in in total con-fight. Golab continued to and lost in a pretty disap-said. “A win in the ring is the fight. Yi took the crown trol, firing quick right jabs work, pushing Garcia to the pointing fight, and this year awesome and there’s no feel-with a unanimous decision. and big combos at Arnold. ropes with a trio of jabs. it’s just great that I finally had ing like it, but there’s a better “I can’t wait to come back The now-tiring Arnold was Golab followed up with an all that work come to fruition, feeling of sending over a next year and see these guys merely looking for an open-uppercut when Garcia’s guard and lead to a victory in my check for $150,000 that you come again,” Yi said. “There’s ing, but he never found one. was down and left him off ultimate goal,” Urciuoli said. know is going to build a new improvement every year and Crepeau won by unanimous balance. Golab knocked off “It’s tough to draw up any school and change kids’ there’s going to be a fresh decision on his way to the the defending champion with stories better than that one. lives.” batch of new fighters next best boxer of the year award. a split decision victory. It’s a kind of storybook end-year and I’m just really excit-“I won the heavyweight 
“I cannot be more happy. ing.” 198 pounds ed.” championship, I got the best This was probably the best Daniel Yi def. Christopher boxer trophy [and] I think we experience I had the four 192 pounds “Stubbs” Sarkis Heavyweight made a bunch of money for years [at Notre Dame]. I Mike “The Bringer of Rain” The last time the sophomore Kevin Crepeau def. Nathan the missions, which is the learned so much, I got to go Doran def. Bill “The Italian Sarkis stepped into the ring Arnold most important thing,” to Bangladesh, I got to be a Stallion” Straccia was Feb. 13. Instead of rust, Senior Bengal Bouts captain Crepeau said. “So just really junior captain [and] president When Straccia entered the though, his freshness shone Crepeau had come into the on all three accounts I could-now,” Golab said. “I hadn’t ring for the first time on through very early on in his finals each of the last three n’t be any happier.” won yet and I won tonight, so Friday night, he was deliver-championship bout with the years only to leave empty-it was just the best way to end ing punches not to his oppo-freshman Yi. As soon as the handed. That all changed on Contact Matthew DeFranks at a career especially against a nent, but to himself in an fight started, Sarkis came out Friday night against the for-mdefrank@nd.edu and Andrew three-time champion, so I just effort to pump himself up. By strong, landing a multitude of mer Linfield football player Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 





page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 7, 2011 
BASEBALL 

Irish fall three times in S.C. 

By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Although only 10 games into the season, a common theme has emerged in each of Notre Dame’s six losses — quality starting pitching and a cold offense. The Irish dropped three of four games at the Winthrop Invitational this weekend despite record­ing three additional quality starts to bring their season total to nine. 
After losing a three-game series to Seattle University last weekend two games to one, the Irish have lost five of their last seven games. 
“Our hitting struggled,” Irish coach Mik Aoki said. “We were better than we were certainly against Seattle, but unfortunately not enough to win two or three or four of those games. I thought we pitched well. The defense was solid 
— not great, not where we want it to be, but solid.” 
Brilliant in a 5-2 loss to Manhattan (2-5) Friday, sen­ior co-captain Brian Dupra turned in another dominant performance from the hill. The right-hander allowed two earned runs in eight innings of work, striking out 
UConn 
continued from page 20 
down to the final possession, when Connecticut senior guard Donnell Beverly fum­bled away a pass from junior guard Kemba Walker as time expired. On the Huskies’ pre­vious possession, Walker missed a three-pointer that would have given Connecticut the lead. 
Following the win, Irish coach Mike Brey was beam­ing with pride over his team’s gutty performance. 
“Couldn’t be more proud of our group,” Brey said in his post -game radio show. “Obviously we lose Ben with 8 minutes left but our nucle­us of other guys just played so well. It was almost a little like [former Irish player] Luke Harangody being out last year. A good player is gone and others just step forward. I thought we really defended well outside of our zone in the last four minutes to get us out of there alive.” 
The Irish held an 8-point lead with 12:04 remaining in the game when Hansbrough 10 while issuing just one walk. 

Dupra (1-1) lowered his ERA to 1.71, and has totaled 26 strikeouts to go along with one walk in 21 innings pitched. 
“Brian [has] been great all year,” Aoki said. “I think he has gone out there and got­ten what your No. 1 is sup­posed to do. It’s a matchup against the other team’s best pitcher — to match him pitch for pitch — and, by and large, he has absolutely done that.” 
Seniors Cole Johnson (1-2) and Todd Miller (1-1) round out Notre Dame’s veteran rotation, and each gave Notre Dame (4-6) a chance to win over the weekend. 
Johnson yielded three runs and struck out five in seven innings, as Notre Dame fell to Winthrop (5 -5) by the score of 4-2 in the nightcap 
of 
a doubleheader. Miller received the no-decision in a 5-4 win over Manhattan on Saturday, despite tossing 7 2/3 innings and allowing 

only 
three earned runs. Junior closer Will Hudgins (1-0) picked up his first win of the season after tossing a scoreless frame in the bot­tom of the 10th inning. 


picked up his fourth foul of the game. Notre Dame held off the Huskies (21-9, 9-9) for the next three and a half minutes, opening up a 10­point lead on a three-pointer from senior forward Carleton Scott. Walker hit two free throws at the other end, but sophomore forward Jack Cooley gave Notre Dame a 60-50 lead with just under ten minutes to go in the game. A minute and a half later, however, Hansbrough picked up his fifth foul with 
8:24 left in the game, just ten seconds after checking into the game for the final time. The foul sent the home crowd into a frenzy and shifted the momentum in the Huskies’ favor as they went on a 15-0 run to take the lead, with 13 of those points coming after Hansbrough’s departure. Walker, who fin­ished with 34 points in the game, scored 11 points in the Connecticut run. 
“Just because the crowd was going and Ben was out, we still had a chance to win the game,” Brey said. “I told them that it was just like the Peterson Center [in Pittsburgh]. We were at the 
“I think all three of those guys [Dupra, Johnson and Miller] have pitched excep­tionally well,” Aoki said. “Unfortunately their win-loss record isn ’t what it should be, but they’ve kept us in games and I think they’ve done a really good job.” 
While the offense tends to lag the pitching early in the season, Aoki said he believes his players need to continue putting in time in practice in order to see better results on the field. 
After falling to Winthrop 7-2 in the final game of the series on Saturday, the Irish have another week to devel­op the offense before taking the field against Alabama-Birmingham (8 -3) on Saturday. 
“We have to get fundamen­tally better, ” Aoki said. “With every game so far, the quality of our at-bats has been better, but I think we are very much a work-in­progress. I think the kids do a good job. I don’t that we’re going to be at .300 on the year, but I think we could be a .270 or .280 team.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
same striking distance, down two possessions with four minutes to go and I said, ‘Let’s just play. Relax.’ We tried to put some pressure on them and see if they could finish and our guys did a really good job of that and different guys stepped up.” 
The Irish battled back with scores from seniors Tim Abromaitis, Scott Martin and Tyrone Nash, who had 6 points and an assist in Notre Dame’s winning rally and finished with 13 points on the day. 
Following the win, Hansbrough, who scored 21 points in 27 minutes, was named first team all-confer­ence on Sunday while Abromaitis was named to the third team. Hansbrough was the only unanimous selection to the first team. 
With the regular season complete, the Irish will head to New York this week for the Big East Tournament. As the No. 2 seed, the Irish earned a double-bye in the tournament and will play their first game Thursday. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
Drexel 
continued from page 20 
Freshman attacker Westy Hopkins provided the Irish with a much needed spark when he scored with 4 seconds remaining in the first quarter, and senior co-captain David Earl added another goal three minutes into the second quarter. The Irish scored two more goals in the second quarter and carried a 4-3 lead into half time. 
“They got a big three goal lead, but after that we settled down defensively and offensively,” Earl said. “We rushed a lot of stuff at the start of the game so we didn’t get much offense going, but throughout the game we were more patient and we were able to get some goals.” 
In the second half, the Irish fell behind once again after surren­dering three quick scores to the Dragons, who took a 6-5 lead into the fourth quarter. 
A large part of Drexel’s success for most of the day was the play of their goalie, junior Mark Manos, who slammed the door shut on a number of promising Irish scoring opportunities. 
“We just kept the pressure on him [Manos],” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. “In a game where you go down, and then you go down again, you can get a little timid and not be as aggressive and not willing to risk, but if you aren’t willing to risk anything then it’s hard to make plays in this game.” 
Notre Dame’s aggressiveness 
McGraw 
continued from page 20 
will be really difficult in the NCAA tournament.” 
Notre Dame scored the final six points to take a 32-24 advantage heading into halftime. The back-court duo of senior forwards Becca Bruszewski and Peters combined for 14 points and eight rebounds in the half. 
“I didn’t think the guards did their job on the boards, but I thought the post did,” McGraw said. 
Peters continued to impose her will on the Cardinals in the second half as she scored 11 of Notre Dame’s first 16 points to extend the lead to 19, the largest lead of the game, during a 22-5 run. 
“We sat her for five minutes in each half and they went off on big runs when she wasn’t in the game,” McGraw said. “She’s a good double-teamer, good in the press, and she does so many things. Having her on the floor makes us a very different team.” 
Louisville went on a 16-4 run after letting the Irish pull ahead, while Peters sat resting on the bench. The Notre Dame back-court stepped up in response, as Diggins and Novosel hit shots on back-to-back possessions to make it a 12-point game. 
The Cardinals, however, would not give in. All-Big East first team forward Monique Reid cut the deficit to six with a layup with 
2:33 remaining. That was the closest Louisville would get, as Notre Dame put up the next five to hold on to the win. 
Diggins hit a layup with 59 sec­onds remaining to give the Irish an 11-point lead, eliminating any doubt of an Irish victory. On the previous Louisville possession, the Irish knew they needed one more stop. 
“We had talked in the huddle that we needed one more defen­sive stop,” Diggins said. “You know that’s just a part of pressur­ing the ball.” 
paid off in the final quarter, as the team poured in six goals to Drexel’s one and secured the home win. The victory marks another important step for the Irish, as they navigate through an incredibly tough schedule in the early part of their season. 
“I don’t think anybody in the country has played three better teams than we have,” Corrigan said. “I’m proud of our guys. They’re getting their work done and battling hard on game days and the focus has been great so far.” 
That they could defeat a top-20 team without arguably their best player is a reassuring sign for the Irish, but it is unclear how long Brenneman will be unable to play. 
“Zach got a little banged up in the Penn State game,” Corrigan said. “We don’t know if we’ll have him back for next weekend or not. It wasn’t definitive coming into today really until yesterday so we’ll just take it day by day, and in the mean time we need other guys to step up like they did today.” 
Also reassuring for the Irish was the support they received from their fans, as the largest crowd ever assembled in the Loftus Sports Complex turned out to watch the contest. 
“It was good, it was nice to be home,” Earl said. “It was good to just be able to relax and be on our home turf. It’s nice being indoors, it’s a lot louder than being outside. It’s always fun to play in front of a crowd, especially at home.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
With No. 12 DePaul’s 66-54 win over St. John’s, the stage is set for a battle among Big East heavy­weights tonight. The only time Notre Dame and DePaul faced each other during the regular sea­son on Feb. 28, the Blue Demons scored with six seconds left to claim the victory. With both teams finishing 13-3 in conference play, the tiebreaker went to DePaul because of that game. 
The only impact that tiebreaker will have on tonight’s game is that Notre Dame will be wearing blue instead of white, but McGraw said the Irish could still learn a great deal from their close loss to the Blue Demons. Facing a hostile environment, Notre Dame appeared poised for its biggest win of the season until a late bas­ket by DePaul senior forward Felicia Chester ended those hopes. 
“We’ve got to play better,” McGraw said. “I thought Chester played really well ... Becca [Bruszewski] only played 13 min­utes, and it was hard for us to have a freshman [Natalie Achonwa] in the game guarding a fifth-year senior [Chester].” 
The Blue Demons carry a deep bench with nine players averaging double-digit minutes. Much of their success is due to their ability to put so many players out on the court and rest their starters. 
Both teams will be well-rested tonight because of the double byes they earned by virtue of being a top-four seed. Both the Irish and Blue Demons enter the contest having played only one game in the tournament up to this point. 
“We’re glad we got the double bye,” Diggins said on March 1. “We got the chance to rest a little bit and get ready for the second game.” 
The winner tonight will advance to the Big East championship game, and neither team has won a Big East title before. The teams will tip off at 8 p.m. on ESPNU in Hartford, Conn. 
Contact Andrew Owens at owens2@nd.edu 

Monday, March 7, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Monday. March 7, 2011 page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish finish regular season with road win 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
When senior guard Ben Hansbrough fouled out with over eight minutes remaining in the game, No. 8 Notre Dame found itself in the unenviable position of pulling 
out a road win against a ranked opponent on its senior night without its top player. The Irish, however, held off a Connecticut surge and left the Gampel Pavilion with a 70-67 
— Notre Dame’s first win ever on Connecticut’s campus. 
After squandering a 10 ­point lead, the Irish (25-5, 14-4 Big East) finished the game on a 10-2 run in the final four minutes to earn a crucial road win that bolsters Notre Dame’s already impres­sive NCAA tournament resume. Despite the run, the game was in doubt right 
see UCONN/page 18 

Gutsy victory 

KIRBY McKENNA/The Observer Irish senior guard Ben Hansbrough eyes up the defense during Notre Dame’s victory over Villanova Feb. 28. Hansbrough and the Irish beat Connecticut 70-67 Saturday in Hartford, Conn. 
MEN’S TENNIS 
ND splits matchups at home 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 21 Irish fell 5-2 in a tough match to No. 18 Texas A&M at the Eck Tennis Pavilion Friday before turning their luck around Sunday with a win over No. 60 Northwestern 6-1. 
Notre Dame lost a hard-fought battle in doubles to give up their only point of the day, beginning with the duo of junior Niall Fitzgerald and sophomore Spencer Talmadge losing 8-4 to Joshua Graves and Spencer Wolf at No. 1 doubles. 
At No. 3, senior Tyler Davis and freshman Greg Andrews earned the only doubles victory for the Irish, knotting the point at a doubles match apiece, when they defeated Chris Jackman and Raleigh Smith, 8-4. 
But the victory was not enough as senior Stephen Havens teamed with junior Casey Watt at 
see VICTORY/page 14 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Boxers compete in championship round of tournament 
By MATTHEW DEFRANKS and ANDREW GASTELUM Sports Writers  make his move. Lally soon started his relentless attack at the beginning of the second r o u n d , r e l y i n g o n a s w i f t  The smaller, stockier Seim landed a few shots to Lally’s h e a d e a r l y i n t h e s e c o n d round, but from that point on,  h o p p i n g a r o u n d h i s c h a l -destructive hook that caught lenger but Lally landed a dev­h i s o p p o n e n t o f f g u a r d o n astating shot in the middle of more than one occasion, but the third that sealed the win t h e f i g h t e r s w e r e e v e n l y  
c ou nter-a t t a c k a g a i n st his  it was all Lally, who relied on  by unanimous decision.  matched throughout.  
134 pounds Jack “Rico Suave” Lally def. Niels Seim  o p p o ne n t’s br i e f c o mb i na-straight punches and inter­tions. mittent jabs. “You want to flow and get “I felt like I executed my  143 pounds Will “The Thrill” Peterson  “I felt about the same [as t he o t her ro u nds ] b e c au s e once you’re in the ring, it’s  
With a victory over his fel­l o w s o p h o m o r e o p p o n e n t ,  your combinations but then you have to sit back and col- strategy great actually,” Lally said. “I was a little bit taller  d e f . B r e t t Sassetti  “ I t a l i a n  I c e ”  just you and the other guy and that’s how it is for all of  
Lally defended his title, rely- l e c t  y o u r s e l f ,  g e t  a  l i t t l e  than he was so the whole plan  In  a  fight that  was  a  new  them,” Peterson said.  
ing on a patient, opportunistic  breath, rest your arms, and  was  just to keep him outside  experience for both freshmen  U s i n g  t h i s  a p p r o a c h ,  
strategy. The two-time cham­ t h e n g e t b a c k  a t  i t , ” L a l l y  with my jab and throw a lot of  fighters, both Peterson and  P e t e r s o n  r e m a i n e d  p o i s e d  
pion began the fight cool and  said. “So I did that a couple of  straight punches.”  Sassetti  came  out firing from  despite Sassetti’s strategy to  
composed, parrying multiple  times and it paid huge divi- Seim tried to rebound in the  the ring of the opening bell.  
jabs from Seim, waiting  to  dends.”  third by keeping on the move,  Peterson relied heavily  on  a  see THRILL/page 16  

MEN’S LACROSSE 

Earl, No. 4 Irish slay Dragons 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
When the Irish first filed out onto the turf of the Loftus Sports Complex for their home opener, back-up goalie Colt Power belted out a few notes on the bagpipes. 
In the game that immediately followed, No. 4 Notre Dame’s (3­
0) 11-7 win over No. 18 Drexel (1­
2) somewhat resembled the tune of the bagpipe: powerful, intrigu­ing and sometimes scary — but always enjoyable. 
The Irish were without presea­son All-American midfielder Zach Brenneman, who stayed on the bench after a hard-fought game at Penn State last week. His absence showed early, as Drexel executed with ease on offense and jumped out to a quick 3-0 lead. 
see DREXEL/page 18 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Peters dominates paint in win over Louisville 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
HARTFORD, Conn. – Before the Big East quarterfinal matchup between No. 7 Notre Dame and Louisville Sunday, Irish forward Devereaux Peters was honored as the conference’s Defensive Player of the Year. Once the game got underway, it was time for the senior to shine — on both ends of the court. 
The senior scored 19 points, grabbed nine rebounds and recorded six blocks in Notre Dame’s 63-53 victory, advancing the Irish to a semifinal show­down with No. 12 DePaul. 
“I was really pleased with Devereaux’s game tonight,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “I thought she played very well defensively — six blocks tied a career high. She carried us through a large stretch of the game.” 
The underdog Cardinals hung with the Irish throughout the first half, thanks to a balanced scoring effort and strong defen­sive play. Louisville held Notre Dame’s top two scorers, sopho­more guard Skylar Diggins and junior guard Natalie Novosel, without a field goal in the half. 
“They’re a great team,” McGraw said of the No. 6 seed Cardinals. “They’ve got a deep bench, they pressure, they play physical, they play hard, and 
see MCGRAW/page 18 





