the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Officials appoint new University librarian 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
University officials appoint­ed Diane Parr Walker to the position of University librari­an, according to a Thursday press release. 
Walker is currently deputy university librarian at the University of Virginia. She will begin her position at Notre Dame on June 25. 
“Diane Walker is a superb administrator who has the experience, vision and lead­ership skills to transform the Hesburgh Libraries into a model research library of the 21st century,” provost Tom Burish said in the release. “She is a proven innovator who understands how to manage the complex challenges imposed by rapidly changi ng technology and the demands of traditional scholar­ship.” 

Walker has worked at the University of Virginia library for 26 years and has been in her current position since 


Food Security Council creates plan of action 


By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
The West Side Food Security Council — a coalition of 16 com­munity leaders and six Notre Dame students — met Jan. 28 to create a plan of action in 
BRANDON KEELEAN I Observer Gtaphic 
addressing the problem of food insecurity in South Bend. 
Student government’s eND Hunger campaign, an initiative of the student body president Catherine Soler and student body vice president Andrew Bell’s 
see FOOD/page 4 
2003, the release said. 

“It is an honor to be invited to lead the libraries at this time of high expectations and of great opportunity,” Walker said in the release. “I look forward to joining the com­munity and together with them building the Notre Dame library for the future.” 
The University librarian is responsible for the adminis­tration, well-being and devel­
opment of the University Libraries, its faculty and staff, collections of books, manuscripts, research mate­rials, services and other activities, according to Section 11 of the Academic Articles governing the University. 
Walker will take over for assistant provost Susan Ohmer, who was named inter­im University librarian on May 18. Former University librarian Jennifer Younger left at the end of the 2009-10 school year for a position with the Catholic Research Resources Alliance, according to a March 22 University press release. 
“I am grateful to assistant provost Susan Ohmer for her skillful and dedicated service as interim director of libraries, as well as for the hard work of the search com­mittee that identified, recruit­ed and evaluated candidates for the position,” Burish said. 
Ohmer said she likes Walker for the position. 
“I can say that the libraries of the University of Virginia are models for us and that we are very excited to have someone who was important to their success coming to the Hesburgh Libraries, ” she said. “I am enthusiastic about the choice.” 
David Morris, a graduate student and one of the princi­pal organizers of the student petition for library improve-
see LIBRARIAN/page 4 



Professor examines gender 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 

A study conducted on boys and girls demonstrated differ­ences in social interactions. When the boys were asked to have conversations with one another, they set their desks so that they didn’t have to look at each other. The girls put all the chairs together and invited everyone in. 
“I’m talking about whether men and women, maybe per­taining to evolution, use differ­ent conversation techniques,” professor James J. McKenna said during his lecture on gen­der differences, held in the LaFortune Ballroom Monday night. 
McKenna said there is a sort of human telepathy. Every sec­ond of the day, humans work to understand relationships 
see LECTURE/page 4 


Study abroad applicants receive decision letters 
time as many of his friends. getting more nervous as people the freedom of the program is to get around everywhere in 
By SAM STRYKER 

“The anticipation and hearing were talking about it on campus. what she is looking forward to Europe,” he said. “I haven’t real-
News Writer 

everyone else find out [was The buzz came back.” the most. ly planned anything yet, I just great],” he said. “I was getting Sophomore Jenny Lesko was “I’ve always wanted to go to know it’s going to be so easy to 
A world of possibilities was nervous, but it was a relief and I accepted to be one of the first Africa. It’s been a dream of go wherever you want.” opened to Notre Dame sopho-am really excited.” Notre Dame students to study mine,” she said. “It won’t be so Lesko said she was anticipat­mores Friday, as the Office of Bossu said anticipation for the abroad in Dakar, Senegal, in the structured, but that is good for ing the cultural opportunities at International Studies [OIS] decision letter has been building spring of 2012. She said while me.” her disposal in Dakar. mailed out decision letters since the application was due she isn’t familiar with the pro-Bossu said the travel opportu-“I am really looking forward to regarding study abroad pro-Nov. 15, climaxing in the week gram, she is ecstatic to be study-nities offered by studying in the field trips and staying with grams for the 2011-12 academic before the results were released. ing in Africa for the semester. Bologna are what he is most the host family. Apparently there year. “[I was nervous] when I origi-“I am so excited. I called about excited for in his study abroad is a lot of art and music,” she 
Sophomore Augie Bossu, who nally filled out the application 10 people when I got in, I was so experience. said. “It’s a huge city, about a was accepted to study in back in November, but over happy,” Lesko said. “I don’t “I definitely plan on travelling million people, so there is a lot of Bologna, Italy, in the spring of break I almost forgot about it,” know much about the program through Europe to see friends. I stuff to do.” 2012, said he was happy to hear he said. “It was almost too long yet. I like trying new things out.” am just excited about all the pos­such positive news at the same of a wait. This past week I was Lesko said the destination and sibilities because it is just so easy see ABROAD/page 4 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC to hold social work week page 3  Viewpoint page 6  Lewis Black comes to South Bend page 8  Women’s basketball page 16 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 8, 2011 
THE OBSERVER 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU HAD TO DESCRIBE THE SUPER BOWL IN A SONG, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 

NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 

SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Eric Prister Emily Schrank Andrew Owens Melissa Flanagan Andrew Gastelum 
Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelan Adriana Pratt 
Photo Viewpoint 
Coleman Collins MeghanThomassen 

OFFBEAT 

N.D. team exposed to raccoon pulled from tournament 
GRAND FORKS — A rac­coon has ended a North Dakota team's bid for a fourth consecutive regional championship in high school wrestling. 
The Carrington High School team was pulled from Saturday's tournament when officials discovered the ath­letes had been exposed to a live raccoon. 
Grafton Police Sgt. Anthony Dumas says the team picked up what mem­bers thought was a dead rac­coon on the way to the tour­nament in Grafton and stowed in the storage area of their bus. Dumas says when the compartment was opened later, the raccoon 

Eddie Linczer
Margaret Preuss 
freshman
freshman 
Siegfried

Pasquerilla East 
“Black and

“Green and 
Yellow” 
Yellow” 




Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

"just trotted away." 

The animal didn't scratch or bite anyone, but it's not known whether it had rabies. 
The Grand Forks Herald reports school officials brought the team home as a precaution. Health officials say there's no risk to athletes who competed against Carrington. 
Surf and turf: Dead cow washes up on Seattle shore 
SEATTLE — Authorities in Seattle say bovine met the shoreline when beachfront residents found the body of a 400-pound cow washed up by the surf. 
Seattle Animal Shelter enforcement supervisor Ann Graves says animal control officers received a report Thursday that the carcass of an adult cow had beached in West Seattle. 
The tide later moved it in front of a home. 
A Seattle Police Department Harbor Patrol vessel towed the cow to a boat ramp Saturday, where it was loaded onto a rendering truck. Graves say it had no ear tag or other identifica­tion. 
It's not clear how it got in the water. Graves say it could have been dumped by own­ers after it died naturally. 
The beached bovine was first reported by West Seattle Blog. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Research Assistant Reneta Dimitrova will present the next installment in the Environmental Fluid Dynamics Seminar Series today at 11 a.m. The lecture is titled “Numerical Modeling of Atmospheric Flow and Air Quality in Urban Areas”. The lecture will take place in 258 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
The AME Seminar: “Sequential Design and Control Optimization of Coupled Systems” will take place today at 3:30 p.m. in 138 DeBartolo Hall. Diane L. Peters will be presenting on “smart” products and their potential to dramatically transform the world we live in. 
Siegfried Hall’s annual Day of Man will take place this Wednesday. Throughout the day, the men of Siegfried will be stationed outside at various locations throughout campus, wearing only shorts and flip-flops in order to raise aware­ness for the homeless. Each Rambler will be collecting donations to benefit the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
Monica Mody, the 2010 Nicholas Sparks Prize Winner, will be reading a selection of her work at the Hammes Bookstore on Wednesday from 7:30-9 p.m. The reading is free and open to the public. 
The Student Body President/Vice President Debate will take place Wednesday at 9 p.m. The debate will be in the Main Lounge of LaFortune Student Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


14 10 HIGH 1413 2529
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

-3 -3 LOW 0 9 2029 






Tuesday, February 8, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Student to hold walk for autism 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
The Autism Speaks U Saint Mary’s chapter held its kick-off event Monday. 
At the event, senior Katrina Mesina spoke to students about the club and what she hopes to achieve in its future. 
Autism Speaks is a nation­al organization dedicated to raising funds for and edu­cating people about autism. 
“Autism Speaks really exists to raise funds and awareness for autism,” Mesina said. 
She hopes to do just that by having the Saint Mary’s chapt er’s first walk for autism too,” 

“A lot of the other girls 
on April 17. said. “It’s All stu -in Autism Speaks have really cool 
dents, facul-personal connections, that we can ty and staff bring it on to 
too. It’s really cool that 
of Saint campus.” 
Mary’s, we can bring it on to According Notre Dame campus.” to Mesina, and Holy the club has 
Cross as a goal of 
Katrina Mesina
well as raising members of senior $10,000 with 
ed in her first walk. 
“I went with a group with, I want to say, like 30 kids in my class and we had a blast,” she said. “So every year we went back, and for me it kind of developed into something more.” 
Mesina has been a team leader for walks in the past, and is excited to lead the Saint Mary’s chapter’s team in April. 
Mesina said she and her family have participated in the walks for her cousin, and many other members of the club have personal ties to autism as well. 
“I’ve been walking for her and a lot of the other girls in Autism Speaks have per­sonal con ­nections, she 
the commu­nity are invited to attend the event, Mesina said. 
At the kick -off event, Mesina explained why autism was an important cause. 
“One in every 110 children and one in every 70 boys in the United States will be diagnosed with autism this year,” she said. “One shock­ing fact that I always like to tell people is that that ’s more than AIDS, diabetes and cancer combined. Not to say that it’s more impor­tant, but that’s how preva­lent this is.” 
According to Mesina, the cause of the disease is still unknown, and therefore no cure has been found. 
Mesina became involved with Autism Speaks in high school when she participat­the 2011 

walk. Prior to the actual event, the club will host different fundrais­ing events including selling lip-gloss and sunglasses. 
On the day of the walk, Mesina hopes to have a variety of different events for children with autism to participate in. The festivi­ties begin at 10:30 a.m., where Sodexo will provide breakfast. The walk itself will begin at noon. Lunch will be served from 1 to 2 p.m. 
Mesina encouraged every­

one to participate in the walk, adding that all of the proceeds will go directly to Autism Speaks. 
The cost for participating in the walk is $10. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Group discusses course revisions 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 

Campus Life Council (CLC) discussed how to improve alco­hol education in the mandatory freshman course, Contemporary Topics, at its meeting Monday. 
Contemporary Topics, a two-cycle course that all freshmen are required to take during their six-cycles of physical edu­cation, spends part of its cur­riculum discussing alcohol and drug use, specifically at Notre Dame. 
“One of the conclusions we’re coming to is that a lot of alco­hol education is front-loaded in your first year at Notre Dame,” junior and student body vice president Andrew Bell said. 
Because of this, Bell said stu­dent government is planning to look closely at alcohol educa­tion on campus and determine what’s relevant and what’s not, as well as what can be reiter­ated beyond freshman year. 
Alexa Arastoo, chair of Diversity Council, said the binder of assigned readings for Contemporary Topics should include more information on low-risk drinking and how stu­dents can stay in this range if they choose to drink. 
“There’s no point of just demonizing it throughout the entire lesson when kids are going to do it,” she said. 
Fisher Hall senator Skip McShea said the section on drink equivalencies should be reformed. 
“I think the drink equivalen­cies should be expanded a lot,” he said. “A lot of people really don’t know what they’re drink­ing.” 
Similarly, Arastoo said the section on the amount of alco­hol in common mixed drinks is irrelevant to freshmen who don’t go to bars. She recom­mended instead that the binder include shot equivalencies between different types of hard alcohol. 
Mike Oliver, co-chair of Hall Presidents Council, said one of the biggest problems with alco­hol education in Contemporary Topics is most freshman do not actually do the assigned read­ings for the class. 
He suggested finding ways to make the readings more appealing. 
“I think if the first couple pages were striking statistics and graphs it’d be such a bet­ter way to catch someone’s eye,” Oliver said. 
Student body president Catherine Soler said one way of combating this might be to make the classes on alcohol education similar to those on diversity, which are student-led by an undergraduate who has experience with the topic. 
Toward the end of the class, students break up into small groups and have their own dis­cussions. Students are then required to write a reflection paper on the issue for the next class. 
Kelsey Behan, student liaison to senate, said having a stu­dent lead the discussion would be a major improvement. 
“I think it’d be great to have someone who is closer to our age,” she said. “It gives us someone you can relate to.” 
Soler also said it might be helpful if the binder included a laminated page with tips for drinking responsibly that stu­dents could take out of the binder and keep after the class ends. 
“For example, what to do if your friend gets sick, with con­tact information on the back,” Soler said. 
Sr. Mary Donnelly, rector of Pangborn Hall, said they need to figure out not only get the information out to students, but also convince them to read it. 
“Whatever we can do to make this more concise,” she said. “We need to try to draw their attention in.” 
Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 

SMCtoholdsocialworkweek 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 

To inform, to learn and to volunteer — those are the goals of Saint Mary’s Social Work Week. 
This week, the Social Work Department will highlight its diverse field of study with var­ious events held each day, including a speech today by Laura Recio, a registered play therapist supervisor of Counseling Solution in Spes Unica at 9:30 a.m. 
The importance of social work week has its grounding in teaching students about what they can achieve with a social work degree. 
“Students learn that they can work in diverse settings, including hospitals, medical centers, schools, congression­al offices, mental health cen­ters, colleges and businesses,” Dr. Frances Kominkiewicz, director of the Social Work program, said. 
However, the week benefits all students, not just Social Work majors. 
“Social work is essential in the way we live our lives today. Typically people link social workers to Child Protective Services and Welfare offices, but social workers are everywhere, and their positions can be found under almost every career heading,” Alma Bravo, a jun­ior Social Work major, said, 
Wednesday, students can learn how to de-stress with a lesson in origami art in the Saint Mary’s Student Center atrium from 4:30 to 6:30 p.m. 
On Thursday, Becky Ruvalcaba, the executive director of South Bend’s LaCasa de Amistad will speak from noon to 1 p.m. in the West Wing of the Noble Family Dining Hall. 
According to Kominkiewicz, LaCasa de Amistad is a non­profit organization that pro­vides services to the Hispanic community. 
Friday wraps up the week with a breakfast outside of the Social Work suite on the sec­ond floor of Spes Unica from 
9:30 to 11 a.m., and a speech 
on Gerontology by Andrea Verteramo in conference rooms A and B of the Noble Family Dining Hall at noon, Kominkiewicz said. 
According to Leonard Sanchez, professor of Specialist and Social Work, the events have something for everyone. 
“There’s a social worker in everybody,” Sanchez said. “Human relations, integrity, competence — it’s what our department is about, but it goes beyond that. We show how to give to each other and the community.” 
Sanchez said the week is being held to encourage peo­ple to take action within the little time they have at Saint Mary’s. 
“Four years may seem like a long time to the students, but it flies,” Sanchez said. “We teach that everyone can make a difference in the world, even if only a small difference. We aren’t trying to change the world all at once — just our little piece of South Bend.” 
Sanchez said he hopes to show students they can make a difference, and that their “presence counts.” 
“People want to do some­thing, they just don’t know how. Social work week bridges that impossible gap,” Sanchez said. 
Kominkiewicz said the importance of the event is for all students, but for the first years especially. 
“First-year students find that they learn a great deal about Social Work as a major and as a profession. Feedback indicates that social work week was most helpful to them in deciding to become a social work major,” Kominkiewicz said. 
All students are encouraged to attend the week’s events in an effort “to make Saint Mary’s stronger in the com­munity,” Sanchez said. “It’s the little things you do for 
others that moves moun ­tains.” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 8, 2011 
running out of space for the planning and construc­books, and we will need a tion of a new special collec-
Librarian 

place to keep the collections tions library, a major reno­continued from page 1 if and when vation of 
we do reno -t h e ments, said Walker would be vate the build-s c h o o l ’ s
“Diane Walker is a 
a positive addition for the ing, ” Morris s c i e n c e library. said. superb administrator and engi ­
“This appointment appears Morris said who has the experience, neering very promising,” he said. the library l i b r a r y, 
vision and leadership
“Diane Parr Walker’s record needs more opening a
skills to transform the
at the University of Virginia money in café in the 
— involving renovation proj-order to Hesburgh Libraries into a lobby of ects and the building of a expand. the main 
model research library of
new special collections According to library and library — indicates an ability Morris, the the 21st century.” planning and willingness to advocate library cur -the reno ­for the library that has rently receives Thomas Burish vation for been lacking in previous between $20 the 70 ­
University Provost 
-

Notre Dame library direc million to $25 tors.” million a year. 
Morris said her liberal arts He said it needs closer to background is also helpful $40 million a year to for her new position at a improve. research university. “To put that in context, 
“It is important for library Notre Dame spends $75 mil-
administrators to know first ­hand the research needs 
of the profes ­sors and stu ­dents who use their facilities,” he said. “This is anoth­er important difference from her predeces ­sors.” 
Walker will need to work out the logistics 

lion a year on athletics and “It is an honor to be over $150 mil­lion a year on 
invited to lead the 
administration 

libraries at this time 
and business of high expectations operations. We and of great dropped $50 million on a
opportunity,” 
new hockey arena,” Morris Diane Parr Walker said. “So $40 
Incoming University million a year 
for the library, 

Librarian 
the heart of our academic life, shouldn’t 
Food 
continued from page 1 
administration, led the council’s formation. Beth Simpson, chair of the campaign, said residents are not having trouble with the amount of food so much as the type of food they have access to. 
“There’s a high percentage of South Bend residents who expe­rience food insecurity. Food security is the more proper way to describe hunger in America today,” she said. “Americans today aren’t struggling with a lack of food in general but rather a lack of healthy food options.” 
Simpson said a crucial initial step in addressing the issue was soliciting community feedback. 
“We sought first of all to gauge what it is the community articulates as its needs,” she said. 
This feedback was fielded during three meetings with the council, the third of which resulted in two solutions for food insecurity, the first of which is in the form of direct aid for families eligible for food stamps. 
“The fund will double the value of purchases made by food stamps and WIC [Women Infants Children] on local, healthy produce,” she said. “Our council, right now, is seeking to articulate the exact structure of this fund as well as beginning to look into funding opportunities.” 
The second facet of the plan is a community center focused on nutrition-related issues. The Student International Business Council will be heading up the business planning of the center, which will be constructed in the LaSalle Square area — an area of high poverty. 
“It’s one of the regions of highest poverty, around LaSalle Square. It’s an identified food desert, so there is no access to a grocery store,” she said. “Within the two mile radius of LaSalle square, 28 percent of the resi­dents have a [household] income of less than $15,000, and 50 percent have an income of less than $28,000 a year, meaning 50 percent of them are food-stamp eligible.” 
The community center would house the Urban Garden Market, one of the non-profits whose leaders serve on the council. The center could also hold a small-scale grocer and possibly house the Purple Porch Co-op, another member of the council, which could potentially vend produce to residents. 
Simpson said the center would also serve as a place for residents to engage the problem of food insecurity personally. 
“Our center will have a kitchen in it. That kitchen will be used for cooking demonstra­tions and nutritional education,” she said. “We’re also looking into how to incorporate micro-venturing within the center. We recognize sustainability is key but most important is that the year-old 

main library, among other proj­ects. 
According to the press release, Walker earned a master’s degrees in musicol­ogy from the University of Iowa and library and infor­mation science from the University of Illinois. She earned her bachelor ’s degree in music literature from MacMurray College. 
She served for five years as music cataloguer and ref­erence librarian at the State University of New York at Buffalo before coming to the University of Virginia as their music librarian, coordi­nator for humanities and social sciences branch libraries and associate uni­versity librarian for user services, the press release said. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

community has ownership and is invested.” 
The council’s work, Simpson said, is a unique opportunity for the Notre Dame community to work with the South Bend com­munity in a multitude of ways. 
“It’s exciting for Notre Dame students because this is an entirely organic initiative. The council arose because of the vision of Notre Dame student government and the Center for Social Concerns coming togeth­er,” she said. 
After the council meets on the Feb. 18 to break into subcom­mittees, Simpson plans to hold an informational meeting for students looking to get involved, tentatively scheduled for Feb. 21. 
“I encourage interested stu­dents to attend the meeting on the 21st and also just to contact me at esimpso4@nd.edu.” 
Simpson said the council’s work is a natural extension of the University’s mission as a Catholic institution. 
“It’s Catholic identity is one thing that distinguishes this University, in particular that our academics are driven by a core set of values, among them serv­ice to the community,” she said. “This initiative represents a means by which students can engage through service, aca­demics and direct involvement in the community to live out the University’s Catholic mission.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
in Egypt will be settled. “I definitely would like to go 
Abroad 
somewhere in the Middle East or an Arabic-speaking nation than 
continued from page 1 
go to London and take Arabic 

Sophomore Jackie Bacon was classes,” she said. “Hopefully accepted to study in Cairo, things can get settled in Cairo or Egypt, in the spring of 2012. She they can set something up in 
said her excitement has been tem­

“I have to be able to take
pered by the 

Arabic where I go abroad
recent civil unrest in the to graduate in time, so I nation. Notre 
hope they can find a
Dame students 

location where we can
who began this semester take Arabic” in Cairo were evacuated out 
Jackie Bacon
of the city Jan. 

sophomore
30. 
“Everyone is excited about where they Jordan or Morocco. As an Arabic major, I would prefer to go somewhere like there.” 
Sophomore Jess Fay was waitlisted for the London program. She said after talk­ing with OIS, she remains optimistic she will be able to 
for possible library renova­tion, he said. 
“I believe that the most pressing need remains an 
on -campus depository because the main library is be too much to ask.” 
Walker has played a role in several initiatives at the University of Virginia, according to the press release. She has helped with are going and who they are going with, but for me it is differ­ent,” she said. “I got in and I’m qualified, but I don’t know if I am going with all the turmoil.” 

Bacon, an Arabic major, said her program of study requires specific classes not available at most study abroad sites. 
“I have to be able to take Arabic where I go abroad to graduate in time, so I hope they can find a location where we can take Arabic,” she said. 
Bacon said she remains hope­ful OIS will be able to find a new site in the region, or the conflict 
Lecture 
continued from page 1 

between themselves and oth­ers. Citing “Origins of Human Communication,” by Michael Tomasello, McKenna said humans are remarkably differ­ent from other primates in terms of empathy. 
“It’s not mind reading, but you can assess the likely inten­tion of someone with who you are watching, talking and inter­acting with,” he said. “Humans can almost become one with another, even if it’s not some­one you love or feel close to.” 
When a person first learns to communicate, he said, humans begin with how they feel. If a child is hungry or afraid, it cries, makes faces and gri­maces. If that’s the beginning of communication then language is centered around emotions, McKenna said. 
Five aspects of communica­tion include signals, meaning, function, development and evo­lution. The nature of the social relationships of the participants is also important, McKenna said. There are friendships, strangers and individuals someone may try to impress. Some situations call for formal or informal communication. 
Ultimately, a message is determined by the totality of verbal and non-verbal cues. Message is enhanced by smell and gestures, he said. Men and woman are affected by pheromones, and gestures are a huge part of how they com­municate. 
“You orchestrate your words,” McKenna said. “You’re talking, your hands go up and down, this way, is there some functionality to the way you move it?” 
When adding the functions of language to society, compre­hension of the subject becomes bigger than language itself. It’s social linguistics, he said. 
“Men seek to separate, distin­guish, choose to dominate, dis­play skill,” McKenna said. “Women aim to negotiate close­ness, give confirmation and spend a semester in the country. 
“It is upsetting, it’s sad. I talked to OIS and they told me to still have hope,” she said. “I applied for summer right before because I was nervous, so I was on the right track.” 
Fay said at this point, there is not much else she can do besides wait and hope for good news. 
“I’m keeping my fingers crossed that everything will work out in the end,” she said. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
support.” 
Women often believe male silence indicates that they are not opening up about their emotions, he said. Men, howev­er, see their silence as respect and support. 
“Women are affirming the validity of their emotion,” he said. Mimicking female conver­sation, McKenna said, “Something happened to me. Oh my gosh, I know what you mean. That same thing hap­pened to me.” 
Women tend to invite, affirm and make others feel appreciat­ed. This is, he said, marked by head bobbing and vocal sounds of agreement. Women often add “tags” to their sentences. These include: isn’t it, do you think and do you agree? 
“She knows it, but she doesn’t want to come off as too bossy,” McKenna said. “That little unsureness softens and allows people to connect, rather than showing distinctive knowl­edge.” 
Research shows that, on average, women are more like­ly than men to phrase a thought as a question, speak at lower volume but a higher pitch, and take less time to express their view, McKenna said. However, how people speak makes a difference in who gets credit for an idea or thought, often to the disadvan­tage of women. 
“This often happens in a pro­fessional setting where women may be judged as less intelli­gent,” he said. 
Men and women’s tend to place different relative weights on status versus connection, which results in asymmetrical roles. 
“Conversational modes that distinguish men and women can be viewed as reflecting each of the sexes’ emotional needs and tendencies,” McKenna said. “However bio­logically based, they are acted on by early cultural values, examples and experiences, which either inhibit or exagger­ate those tendencies.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 


Tuesday. February 8, 2011 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
AOL buys Huffington Post 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — AOL Inc.’s $315 million deal to buy news hub Huffington Post sig­nals that it is serious about building its profile as a media company as its legacy dial-up Internet business dies away. 
The acquisition announced Monday is AOL CEO Tim Armstrong’s most aggressive play so far as he tries to reshape a fallen Internet icon and boost efforts in news and online advertising. It is the largest purchase the company has made under Armstrong, a former Google advertising executive hired by AOL to engi­neer a turnaround. 
The Huffington Post ranks as one of the top 10 current events and global news sites and draws 25 million U.S. visi­tors each month. It has built its popularity by compiling news from a wide selection of other media outlets, with links to articles and video on every­thing from politics to style to food. The site combines that type of aggregation with origi­nal work by its own small staff and blog posts from celebrity contributors who work for free in return for a platform to express their opinions. Bill Gates has written for Huffington Post, along with President Barack Obama, Robert Redford and several university presidents. 
But just as important as gaining the site itself, the deal adds Huffington Post co-founder and media star Arianna Huffington to AOL’s management team. Once the deal closes later this year, Huffington will run AOL’s growing array of content, which includes popular tech­nology sites Engadget and TechCrunch, local news site Patch.com and online mapping service MapQuest. 
Although some analysts say that AOL is paying a lot for the Huffington Post brand, Benchmark Co. analyst Clayton Moran believes the price isn’t a huge hit for the company in the short term, especially since it helps put to rest any ques­tion that AOL is now an online media company. Bringing Huffington Post to AOL gives it access to quality content and will drive new users to its site, replacing those the company has lost over time, he said. And the price is essentially “the hir­ing fee to get Arianna,” tech­nology analyst Rob Enderle says. Although he described the purchase as an “out-of-left­field” decision, he thinks the move “could put AOL back on the map.” 
Huffington Post grew quickly from startup to online colossus. Over time, it launched city-spe­cific pages and developed a roster of sections such as food and books. The work of its 70­person paid staff is augmented by content from news outlets and 6,000 bloggers who write for free. Outsell Inc. analyst Ned May said the Huffington Post “has done a fantastic job of building content creation. And AOL can monetize it.” 
AOL sorely needs to. The company rose to fame in the ‘90s with its dial-up Internet service, managing to buy media company Time Warner Inc. in 2001 at the height of the dot-com boom. The corpo­rate marriage never really worked, though, and AOL’s main source of revenue began drying up as consumers flocked to speedier broadband Internet connections. After nearly a decade of attempts at integrating the two, Armstrong was brought in to prepare AOL to separate from Time Warner, and the companies split in Dec. 2009. 

Although analysts say AOL’s decision to buy Huffington Post is sound, Enderle warned that putting Arianna Huffington into a position of power could eventually threaten Armstrong’s job security if AOL still struggles. 
Gartner analyst Andrew Frank added that the deal is risky in the sense that media acquisitions are inherently risky these days. 
“There is a lot of effort ahead for online media to recapture the glory days when media was booming business,” he said. “Deals like this offer hope. On the other hand you can’t really dismiss the somewhat uneven record AOL has had with acquisitions.” 
Beyond Time Warner, anoth­er of AOL’s well-known failed acquisitions was social net­work Bebo, which AOL bought in 2008 for $850 million and then unloaded two years later to Criterion Capital Partners for an undisclosed amount thought to be a fraction of what it paid. 
Regardless, both parties clearly feel optimistic about this deal. In a blog post, Arianna Huffington praised Armstrong’s vision for AOL and said they were on the same page as they discussed their ambitions for online news. “We were practically finishing each other’s sentences,” Huffington wrote. She said the deal was signed at the Super Bowl in Dallas, which she and Armstrong attended. 

Obama addresses U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — Echoing John F. Kennedy, President Barack Obama prodded busi­ness leaders Monday to “ask yourselves what you can do for America,” not just for compa­ny bottom lines, even as he sought to smooth his uneasy relations with the nation’s cor­porate executives. 
Speaking to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the presid ent urged the business com­munity to help accelerate the a vigorous lobbying campaign against the health care bill and the financial regulation overhaul, particularly a provi­sion creating a consumer financial protection agency. It also spent at least $32 million in the 2010 elections, most of it in advertising campaigns against Democrats. 
Still, the Chamber and the White House have mutual interests. 
Obama needs the centrist cloak that the business community can offer, as he seeks to 

slow economic  “I want to be clear: Even  win  inde- 
recovery  by  as we make America the  pendent vot­ 
i n c r e a s i n g hiring and u n l e a s h i n g  best place on earth to do business, businesses also  ers for his re­election bid next year.  
some of the $2 trillion piling up on their  have a responsibility to America.”  The Chamber can benefit by softening  
b a l a sheets.  n  c  e  Barack Obama  the edges  sharp it  
“I  want  to  U.S. President  d e v e l o p e d  

encourage you to get in the game,” Obama said. 

He enumer­ated new efforts by his admin­istration to improve the nation’s business infrastruc­ture, spend more to support entrepreneurs and foster greater innovation. He vowed to address “a burdensome cor­porate tax code,” and go after “unnecessary and outdated regulations.” 
But to a polite, subdued audience of about 200 he also offered a stout defense of health care and financial regu­lation overhauls -two signa­ture administration initiatives that caused some of the most rancorous disputes with the Chamber last year. 
“I want to be clear: Even as we make America the best place on earth to do business, businesses also have a respon­sibility to America,” Obama said. 
“As we work with you to make America a better place to do business, ask yourselves what you can fighting the 
health care 
overhaul and 
tighter finan­
cial rules. 
The Chamber can also act as Republican ballast against the influence of the conservative tea party movement. 
Both the White House and the Chamber face Republican opposition from fiscal hawks within the GOP to increased spending on public works, from roads and bridges to wireless networks. The Chamber has called for such spending to be paid for with user fees, such as a higher gasoline tax. The White House has not embraced that approach, saying only that the administration wants to create an “infrastructure bank” to attract private capital. 
The Chamber, which has long advocated changes in immigration law, also could help Obama by pushing Republicans reluctant to take up such a politically charged 
issue. 
Obama is 
aiming to 
repair rela­
tions with 

do for “Ask yourselves what you corporate America. Ask leaders even 
can do to hire American 
yourselves as he tries to what you can workers, to support the persuade do to hire American economy, and major busi-American nesses to 
to invest in this nation.” 
workers, to spend their support the cash, expand American Barack Obama hiring and economy, and U.S. President promote eco­
to invest in this nation.” 

President Kennedy, in his inaugural address 50 years ago, memo­rably declared, “Ask not what your country can do for you; ask what you can do for your country.” 
Reacting, Bruce Josten, the Chamber’s chief lobbyist, said, “Companies first, unlike a gov­ernment, have to sustain their operation and that requires being able to pay your employ­ees, vendors, suppliers and bondholders.” 
“Bottom line, the most patri­otic thing a company can do is ensure it is in business and take steps to stay in business; otherwise everyone loses and more people lose their jobs,” he said. 
The U.S. Chamber mounted nomic 
growth. 
Obama said 
his appear­
ance at the Chamber was in the interest of “being more neighborly.” Indeed, the trade organiza­tion’s headquarters are so close to the White House that Obama was able to walk across Lafayette Square to deliver his remarks. 
Business leaders reacted cautiously to the overarching message of the speech, saying it addressed issues that have created uncertainty in the pri­vate sector -from taxes to reg­ulation. Still, they said the address was short on details, and some noted that before businesses feel secure in risk­ing shareholder value, the economy is going to have to show sustained growth 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Tuesday, February 8, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

How not to get a date for Valentine’s Day 
In response to yesterday’s Viewpoint article asking for a date for Valentine’s Day, I thought I’d give my fellow Domer’s some advice on what not to do if you if you’re still looking for a special someone to spend 
Ankur Chawla 
February 14 
with. Here’s my 

Assistant 
top 10 list for 

Scene Editor 
how not to get a 
date for 
Valentine’s Day. 

Number Ten: Looking like anyone 
from the Jersey Shore. 

Number Nine: Talking to members of 
the opposite sex of how excited you 
are that Susan B. Anthony Day is 
February 15, the day after Valentine’s 
Day. While it does say you respect 
women, it also says you know when 
Susan B. Anthony Day is. 
Number Eight: Wearing a Ben 

Roethlisberger jersey. No means No. 
Number Seven: Pretending SDH is a 
romantic dining experience. Yes, the 
dining halls at Notre Dame are exqui­
site, and compared to those at most 
other universities may seem to some 
like a five star meal. Still, trying to 
take a date to the DH for dinner on 
Valentine’s Day is not the best idea. 
Number Six: Texting everyone on 
your Dis-O T-shirt. The first few weeks 
of freshman year may have been fun 
and your stained white T-shirt covered 
in sharpie continuously validates your 
manhood, half of those numbers are 
either fake or the number of the girl’s 
local pizza hut (I’m talking to you, girl 
from my hometown thinking I would-
n’t recognize 926-5000). 

Number Five: Sending yourself flow­
ers, chocolates and cards. I’m sorry 
that you aren’t Glen Coco, getting four 
candy canes sent to you by your signif­
icant other(s), but sending yourself 
Valentine’s Day presents is a self-ful­
filling prophecy. 

Number Four: Not looking like some­
one from the Jersey Shore. GTL. 
Number Three: Asking someone out 
who doesn’t know you but who you 
know way too much about through 
Facebook stalking. Everyone Facebook 
stalks, that’s a fact of life, but by no 
means is it good game to ask out the 
person you see on your walk to 

Debartolo Monday Wednesday Fridays 
who doesn’t know you exist but you 
know every place she’s ever been 
employed and her favorite movies. 
Number Two: Sending a letter in to 
Viewpoint asking for any girl to check 
you out on Facebook while your profile 
is private. And then suggesting order­
ing in Domino’s. Seriously, anything 
other than Gino’s East is weak. Sorry 
Pierce. 

Number One: Not asking anyone out. 
While the odds may be against you 
that the girl you have a crush on in 
your Philosophy class actually wants 
you to ask her out, there is the possi­
bility that she’s as anxious as you are 
to have anyone as a date for 

Valentine’s Day. And as the adage 
goes, you can’t get a date without ask­
ing anyone out … unless you’re an 
athlete. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 
Challenging President Obama on Education 
The State of the Union address on Jan. 25 was a continuance of the President’s anti-ideological rhetoric since the midterms and the tragic shooting in Tucson; a refreshing escape from the entrenched argu­ments of the last two years. The speech signaled that the President is fiercely open minded head­ing into the new leg­islative session, and excited to work with whomever has an innovative idea sup-Chris ported by docu-Rhodenbaugh mented evidence. Empowering chil-In Pursuit of dren to compete in Social Justice the next generation economy through equal opportunity in education was a ral­lying cry and reoccurring theme in the speech. Appropriately, seated in the audi­ence of the speech thanks to Speaker John Boehner was a group of outstanding students that embody the hope of the United States to overcome educational shortfalls from four different inner-city Catholic schools in D.C. Many of the stu­dents present were beneficiaries of a suc­cessful program called D.C. Opportunity Scholarships that was terminated for all future underprivileged D.C. students by Congressional Democrats and President Obama in 2009. 

The D.C. Opportunity Scholarship Program fits seamlessly into President Obama’s post-partisan call for education reform, but to date it has been left off the table by the President. The program was established in 2003 under the D.C. School Choice Incentive Act and is “the first feder­ally funded private school voucher pro­gram in the United States, providing schol­arships of up to $7,500 for low-income residents (avg. family income of $17,300) of the District of Columbia to send their children to local participating private schools.” In the year 2007, 1,930 students were receiving a scholarship to attend a school of their family’s choice. Despite the fact that it is extremely rare for education­al intervention to show indisputable achievement gains after a few years, D.C. 
Opportunity Scholarships have proven their value according to the Institute for Education Sciences of the U.S. Government. Of the students offered a scholarship those who accepted had an 82 percent graduation rate while those that declined had a 70 percent graduation rate. The D.C. public school system graduates only 48.8 percent of its students. Sub groups of scholarship recipients, including females and high achievement students, showed statistically significant gains in reading scores, while all students showed small improvements in reading and math using the most rigorous methodology for testing achievement. In addition to remarkable improvements in graduation rates and advancements in student achievement, four consecutive reports from Georgetown University and the University of Arkansas showed parents are “very satisfied and more involved in their children’s education,” and “children have an improved attitude toward learn­ing, increased self-esteem and enthusiasm towards school.” 
Strictly in terms of political calculus, supporting the D.C. Opportunity Scholarships would garner significant pos­itive attention at little cost for the President. Boehner has made the scholar­ship program a top priority in his new role as speaker by unconventionally sponsor­ing legislation to reinstate the program himself. He hosted a press conference the day after the State of the Union along with Connecticut Senator Joe Lieberman who is introducing the bill in the Senate, calling on the President to live up to his words from the night before on education. Obama and Boehner shaking hands on a deal to empower poor children and their families in D.C. to choose their schools is exactly the type of story the White House should be pursuing. The cost to Obama would come from the teachers’ unions and the left-wing Democrats who do not want to go on the record opposing them. However, the political tides are working in Obama’s favor if he reverses his position on the Opportunity Scholarships. With the help of the recent documentary “Waiting for Superman” and well published success of alternative models to the traditional public school, the activist base of the Democratic Party is quickly turning on teachers’ unions that put their job security above the interests of children. Additionally, multiple former Democratic mayors of the city and a majority of the 
D.C. City Council endorsed the Opportunity Scholarship Program in 2009. 
Obama needs to establish himself as an unequivocal supporter of educational opportunity for children. A good public education should be the first step towards the American dream. For many Americans it is, but for minorities and the poor, particularly in D.C., the numbers overwhelmingly display a system that is thoroughly failing. Wealthy D.C. area fami­lies have had a school choice plan for decades because they have the ability to choose where they live according to the quality of the schools, or to pay for private school tuition. 
School choice advocates do not expect the President to fully endorse vouchers as a solution to the crisis in U.S. education at this point in time. However, they demand the President stop turning his back to the success of the D.C. Opportunity Scholarship program while he speaks to the American people about his bipartisan credentials and the need for a new gener­ation of innovative policies. Much like the Administration’s flagship Race to the Top Initiative, the D.C. Opportunity Scholarship is a targeted investment, albeit more than $4 billion less at a total of $13.1 million, designed to help students in the short-term while building a longer term body of evidence for an education reform strategy. The evidence collected from the Opportunity Scholarship Program will help legislators evaluate the effectiveness of vouchers. Reinstating the D.C. voucher program on the condition that it continues to meet realistic academic achievement and parental satisfaction goals is a biparti­san idea that prioritizes students and dis­covering what works in education. 
Chris Rhodenbaugh is a senior political science major and editor of www.LeftysLastCry.com, Notre Dame’s Progressive Headquarters. He can be con­tacted at crhodenb@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Room for humility 
Jose, 

In your letter you claim to support people's fitness resolutions, then spend a paragraph detailing what you hate about those people. Surely any student in our esteemed law school could see the disconnect in your argument. 
You do make great points — since you are a veteran of the weight room, it's clearly up to the new crowd to find non-peak hours in order to convenience you. Perhaps more people could maintain their resolutions if they didn't have to deal with people such as yourself at the most convenient hours (that's why it's so crowded after all). 
Anyway, I now know I'll be sticking to Keough's fitness room. It doesn't have all the amenities of the Rock, but it has 
people with some humility. 
OBSERVER POLL 
What was your favorite Super Bowl commercial? Careerbuilder: Chimps driving Volkswagen: Young Vader Chrysler: Eminem/Detroit Bridgestone: Beaver/Karma Audi A8: Luxury prison break Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
Stephen Siena 
senior Keough Hall Feb. 7 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“There can be no happiness if thethings we believe in are differentfrom the things we do.” 
Freya Madeline StarkBritish travel writer 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, February 8, 2011 page 7 
Ask the GreenMan 
Dear GreenMan, Does recycling an Observer really save a polar bear? Skeptical in Sorin 
Dear Skeptical, 

Skepticism is an understandable response to the bold ad run in this publi­cation last week, which asserted that "Every recycled Observer saves a polar bear" (Jan. 31, p. 9). 
In the first place, we typically think of saving trees as the primary benefit of recycling paper. However, the reduction in deforestation that would result from recycling newspapers does little to help our polar friends, since polar bears live on ice floes, not in forests (with the exception of a few notable fictional polar bears on the island on Lost). 
Fortunately, recycling paper does more than just decrease deforestation by reducing demand for virgin paper prod­ucts. According to EPA and Paper Industry Association Council estimates, recycling one ton of paper saves 7,000 gallons of water, 3.3 cubic yards of land­fill space, and enough energy to power the average American household for six months, in addition to reducing green­house gas emissions by one metric ton of carbon equivalent (MTCE). 
Now let’s consider these statistics in the context of The Observer: The Observer circulates 9,000 copies daily, five days a week during the academic year (with 13,000 copies on home football Fridays). This amounts to about 1,468,000 copies of The Observer printed each year. Using the conservative estimate that 10 copies of The Observer weigh one pound, this means that the Observer circulates about 
73.4 tons of newspaper to the campus community annually. 
Applying the estimates above, this means that recycling all of The Observers printed in a single academic year would save more than half a million gallons of water, free up more than 240 cubic yards of landfill space, save enough energy to power the average American home for more than 35 years, and reduce green­house gas emissions by about 73 MTCE. 
So how does this help save polar bears? Polar bears have become one of the most recognizable symbols of campaigns to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and mitigate climate change, because their Arctic home is warming much faster than other regions of the globe. The resulting loss of sea ice habitat has caused the U.S. Department of the Interior to protect polar bears under the Endangered Species Act. 
While recycling your Observer is a good start to decreasing your greenhouse gas emissions and helping the polar bears, it’s only the beginning. 
Certain methods of reducing your car­bon footprint have probably been pound­ed into your head: ride bikes or walk instead of driving, use less electricity, car­pool, recycle. But one of the more neg­lected avenues is to change your day-to­day purchasing decisions. I’m not talking about big-time decisions like buying a hybrid instead of an SUV. I’m talking about simple things picking a spiral note­book with 100 percent post-consumer recycled content instead of a Five Star® notebook with a glossy plastic cover. (After all, recycling this Observer is only helpful if someone is willing to buy the recycled product it’s made into!) 
Sometimes choosing the most eco­friendly product on the shelf seems clear: which notebook has the highest percent­age of recycled content? But in fact, it’s rarely so simple. What if that 100 percent recycled content notebook was made in China and had to be shipped thousands of miles just to end up on that shelf? What if the recycled paper underwent an exten­sive (and highly toxic) bleaching process before being bound in the notebook? Suddenly, evaluating a product’s environ­mental impact doesn’t seem so simple anymore. 
Deciphering products’ green claims and assessing their true environmental impact are exactly the kinds of issues that will be up for debate later this month at the Fourth Annual Green Summit. The topic of the forum is “Purchasing Power” and discussion will revolve around assessing the environmental impact of consumers’ everyday purchases of items like cell phones, T-shirts and even spiral notebooks. 
Here’s hoping South Bend’s ice melts, but the sea ice doesn’t! 
The GreenMan 
Have a question about the environment or how to go green in your personal life? Ask the GreenMan! Seriously. The GreenMan will be here every other week to answer your eco-related questions: email askthegreenman@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Make the sacrifice 
Practical men 
Dear Notre Dame Family, 

This Wednesday, February 9, is Siegfried Hall’s Day of Man. On Day of Man, Siegfried residents will wear only a T-shirt, shorts and sandals. On our way to classes and outside the dining halls, DeBartolo and Fieldhouse Mall, we will collect money from students and staff for the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
We participate in this event in order to show solidarity with those who suf­fer from the cold South Bend winter on a regular basis. If the homeless are cold every day, why can’t we be cold for one day? We hope that our day of sacrifice will assist the individuals in our community who receive support from the Center for the Homeless. 
This Wednesday, we challenge you to support the homeless as the men of Siegfried brave the cold. Please bring 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

money to class or to the dining hall. You can also send a check made out to “South Bend Center for the Homeless” to Fr. John Conley, CSC, Rector, 100 Siegfried Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556. We will accept donations throughout the month of February. 
Here at Siegfried Hall — “where tough meets classy” — we’re ready to make a sacrifice. Are you? 
Sincerely, 
Andrew Ritter 
sophomore Siegfried Hall Feb. 6 

Peter Thompson 
sophomore Siegfried Hall Feb. 6 

No. 1 Hockey fan 
In Monday’s Viewpoint section, Notre Dame junior David Mahin of Siegfried Hall wrote in to the Editor publicizing Siegfried’s “Day of Man.” While I fully endorse Mr. Mahin and the Ramblers’ collective support for the South Bend Center for the Homeless — the recipient organization of the money raised by Siegfried’s “Day of Man”— I nonetheless whole­heartedly dispute the overt connota­tion of “man” with “toughness.” 
The Ramblers have their hearts in the right place; raising money for the homeless is a noble cause. But their “Day of Man” (consciously or not) encourages a phallocentric, discrimi­natory culture, and perpetuates the stereotype that to be a man, one must be tough. 
I would argue that man is defined by more than his “rippling abs,” “bulging biceps” or ability to wear flip-flops in February. Man can be many things; man can even be practical. So feel free to put on a sweatshirt or bundle up with a toboggan. 
Support the homeless. But be cog­nizant: you’re no less a man when 
wearing layers. Peace, 
Brian Metz 
sophomore Knott Hall Feb. 7 


It is our senior year and the last four years have been some of the best in our lives. We experienced new things, visited new places and made many fabulous new friends. One of our friends in particular has a soft spot in her heart for Notre Dame Hockey. As a dedicated fan, she has never missed a game (except when she studied abroad in Ireland for a semester), and she always keeps all of us updated on how the team is doing. Molly (our friend) is an amazing person who is going to ded­icate her life to teaching our young peo­ple. She also has a favorite Notre Dame Hockey player, No. 19. You know who you are. If any of the hockey players are read­ing this right now we know that a shout out to Molly (mgorsz01@saintmarys.edu) would be a dream come true. You can decide when and where, but remember as a No. 1 fan, she never misses a game. GO IRISH! 
Kate Kryk 
senior 
Regina Hall 
Feb. 7 
Therryn Rassi 
senior 
Regina Hall 
Feb. 7 


The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Tuesday, February 8, 2011 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Writer 

South Bend is about to get yelled at. 
Acclaimed comedian Lewis Black is bringing his lat­
est stand-up tour, “In God We Rust,” to the Morris 
Performing Arts Center on Thursday. 
The anger and frustration with society that have 
made Black famous are at full tilt in his latest tour. He 
describes the title of his show as a description of the 
current state of our country. 

“[The tour] is about … how we basically had all this 
stuff [in this country] and it was going really well and 
now it’s rusting. It’s basically about the same things all 
my other tours are about. I look around, I see what’s 
going on and it makes me nuts,” Black said. 
The Grammy award-winning Black may be most 
familiar to students from his recurring “Back in Black” 
segment on “The Daily Show with Jon Stewart” or his 
performance as the fake dean of a fake university in 
the 2006 film “Accepted,” but Black is actually one of 
the most prolific stand-up comedians performing today. 
His professional career dates back to the late 1970s, 
after he received his Masters in Fine Arts at the Yale 
School of Drama and began working as a playwright at 
a theater in New York City. 

While working as the playwright-in-residence, Black 
not only oversaw the writing of all the plays performed 
at the theater, but also emceed every show. This emcee 
position turned into an opportunity for Black to devel­
op his performance as a stand-up comedian and dis­
play his now-famous persona. 

By the late 1980s, Black left theater to pursue his 
stand-up career. It turned out to be a good decision, as 
in the span of two decades his classic angry at every­
thing style of humor has enabled him to rise to the top 
in ranks of comedians. 

In addition to winning a Grammy for Best Comedy Album in 2007 for “The Carnegie Hall Performance” and a nomination for the same award in 2006, he also boasts an Emmy nomination for the 2007 “Red, White and Screwed,” one of his numerous HBO specials. 
Black also won the 2001 Best Male Stand-Up award from the American Comedy Awards. His numerous and continuous successes led to his ranking by Comedy Central as the 51st greatest stand-up comedian of all time in 2004. 
“[I feel most comfortable] in stand-up. Because it’s just me and the audience and there’s nobody around and I’m the only one who can screw it up,” Black said. 
Despite a performance schedule that puts him on stage more than 200 nights a year across the globe, Black has made his mark in other forms of media as well. In addition to his aforementioned role in “Accepted,” Black has appeared in several other full-length and critically acclaimed short films also. 
Though he left theater as a full time career, he did not completely give up the art. He has written over 40 plays many of which have successfully been put into production around the country. His writing skills are not contained to the theater, however, as he has also penned two New York Times best selling books. 
Fans who are familiar with Black’s typical style of jumping around between social and political com­mentary can expect the comedian to be at his best in his latest performance. 
“I talk about how we’ve got to move Valentine’s Day to the spring where it belongs, it doesn’t belong in … the most depressing month of the year. I talk about health care, and I … look at both parties and I go, you’ve got be kidding me. It just gets dumb. It gets dumber by the minute,” Black said. 
And through all his political commentary, despite proclaimed socialist viewpoints, Black maintains his own form of fairness and bipartisanship when look­ing at American politics. Namely that he is ticked off at everybody equally. 
“What [the political parties] don’t seem to realize is that both sides have part of the answer, but they won’t sit down and do anything. They’re so ... big on that their idea is the better idea; they’re idiots … I don’t really feel like I [try to influence people]. My only influence might be to comfort people who are also losing their minds too,” Black said. 
And like any good comedian, he’s willing to make fun of himself. Black threw in his two cents on the uncanny resemblance that he shares with ESPN NFL analyst Ron Jaworski. 
“Ron Jaworski is not even close to being as attrac­tive as I am. No, he’s an athlete; I am the opposite of whatever an athlete is,” Black said. 
The show is Thursday at 8:00 p.m. Tickets, which range from $27-$47, can be purchased at the Morris Center or on their website at morriscenter.org. 
Around the Bend 
What: Lewis Black: ‘In God we Rust’ Where: Morris Performing Arts Center, SouthBend, Ind.When: Thursday, February 10, 8 p.m. How much: $27-47 Learn more: morriscenter.org or call (574) 235­9190 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 

By CHRIS COLLUM 
Scene Writer 

Conor Oberst has already made more folk-rock master­pieces than most guys with guitars riding the coffee shop circuit could ever dream of. But don’t expect another one here. America’s favorite Midwestern Hippie-boy obviously isn’t very interested in hushed acoustic ballads this time around. 
Look no farther than the bouncy synth-rock of first sin­gle “Shell Games” for confirmation of that fact. 
“I was really burnt out on that rootsy Americana” Oberst said in a recent interview with Billboard. “So I tried to steer clear of that.” 
The above statement certainly made many anxious as to what exactly “The People’s Key” was going to sound like. After a somewhat disappointing showing in 2007’s coun­try-tinged mystical “Cassadaga,” and a few good-but-not­great records as Conor Oberst and the Mystic Valley Band and Monsters of Folk (with other high-profile folk rock­ers), it appeared that Oberst was over the proverbial hill, fast on his way to becoming a gimmick. 
“The People’s Key” does not dispel these notions immediately. Like many Bright Eyes albums, it opens with a seemingly absurd spoken-word introduction, this time presented by some washed-up West Texas acidhead cowboy that Oberst apparently met since the last time Bright Eyes was in the studio. The cowboy narrator spews on and on about some bizarre theory that all evil in humanity is derived from an alien reptil­ian race that landed their UFO in the Garden of Eden. Not an auspicious beginning for a notoriously all-over-the­map artist. 
After the cowboy is finished with his rant, however, opening track “Firewall” is surprisingly good, slowly esca­lating into a crescendo that finally erupts into life in the last minute of the song. As previously mentioned, second track and first single “Shell Games” is a very good airy keyboard-driven number—credit is due to longtime key­boardist Nate Walcott. It’s the kind of pop song that every­one knew Oberst was capable of, but that few thought he would ever write. 
After “Shell Games,” the fuzzed bombast of “Jejune Stars” comes as somewhat of a shock. This is about as far away from whispery folk as Oberst and company have ever dared. 
Elsewhere on the album, Bright Eyes occasionally strays back towards more familiar musical territory, such as in piano ballad “Ladder Song” — which recalls “If the Brakeman Turns My Way” from “Cassadaga” — but more times than not the band avoids anything resembling the aforementioned “rootsy” sound. The craziest part about that is that it works. These songs sound absolutely fantas­tic. 
Lyrically, however, it is painfully obvious that Oberst has not done as much rebooting as might be desired. As on “Cassadaga” and much of his recent work away from 
Bright Eyes, he still toes the line between possibly drug-induced enlightenment and utter nonsense. 
Vague references to a myriad of religions or superstitions as well as some kind of hallucinogenic apoca­lyptic sense of grandeur can start to 
get old after the sixth or seventh 
track. This would be almost unforgivable if such nonsense as “Sings like the Queen of Sheba / Voice through a Blonde Speaker / One dropping bubble and Leslie / Calling me home like Haile Selassie” wasn’t coupled with one of the best hooks he’s ever written. 

What makes the lyrics so frustrating is that Oberst is very close to something great, but he gets too wrapped up in his own hallucinations and fantasies to come back down to earth long enough to explain what he’s talking about. He claimed in interviews that the title track is about the confluence of society and technology, but it seems doubtful that anyone can figure that out from lis­tening to the song. For a man who once practically beat us over the head with imagery in every line, this kind of vague nonsense is puzzling. 
“The People’s Key” is probably not what anyone outside of Oberst’s inner circle expected it to be. The album has some dizzying highs despite the lack of lyrical depth. With so many rockers in the bag to choose from, the band’s upcoming tour promises to be one of their most exciting to date. Catch them in Chicago at the Riviera Theatre on March 15. 

In yesterday’s “Fashion by Felicia” column, the model in the photo was senior Colleen Valencia. The gloves can be purchased at Dillards.com. 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Tuesday, February 8, 2011 page 9 

By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 

This Valentine’s weekend Loretta Lynn brings a bit of country music to South Bend. After touring through Kansas City and Des Moines on the Friday and Saturday, Lynn performs this Sunday at the Morris Performing Arts Center before continuing her tour to New England, the South and the West throughout the spring. 
Lynn’s impressive discography spans from her first album “Loretta Lynn Sings” in 1963 to her most recent album, “Van Lear Rose” in 2004 — produced by Jack White of The White Stripes — for which she won several Grammy Awards. Recently Sony Music Nashville pre­sented Lynn with her own rose; an ever-blooming floribunda hybrid enti­tled the “Loretta Lynn Van Lear.” 
With 54 studio albums, 88 singles, 23 No. 1 singles and 15 compilation albums, Lynn’s music has had a pow­erful presence for country, pop and rock fans for half a century. 
More than just Lynn’s music has been famous, however; her autobiog­raphy, “Coal Miner’s Daughter,” was made into an award-winning film with the same title in 1980, starring Sissy Spacek and Tommy Lee Jones. 
Her famous life story starts humbly in Butcher Holler, Ky., during the Depression as one of eight children. Lynn married Oliver “Doolittle” Lynn when she was 14 and was already a mother of four when she learned to play guitar and began singing seri­ously. Zero Records was started by Norm Burley just to record her after she was spotted at a talent contest. She and her husband traveled cross-country pushing her first Zero Records release “I’m a Honky Tonk Girl,” which become a minor hit when she reached Nashville. Lynn’s musical influences included “girl-singer” Kitty Wells and the distinctive style of Patsy Cline. 
Lynn’s music not only reflected her hometown and upbringing, but a strong female point of view as well. Some of her singles that presented the strong woman character unafraid to stand up for herself include “You Ain’t Woman Enough (To Take My Man),” “Don’t Come Home a’Drinkin’ (With Lovin’ on Your Mind)” and “Fist City.” Her songs tell the story of women in their everyday lives, cover­ing motherhood, marriage, sexuality and divorce. Lynn and her music advocates for the ordinary woman, particularly in blue-collar and work-ing-class roles. 
Lynn refused to avoid controversy by writing her first song in 1966, “Dear Uncle Sam,” one of the first songs to mention the human costs of the Vietnam War. Similarly, “The Pill” was banned by many radio stations in its time for its message of how birth control gives women the free­dom to love without the fear of preg­nancy. 
Starting the 1970s with three albums in one year (“Wings Up Your Horns,” “Loretta Lynn Writes ‘em and Sings ‘em” and “Coal Miner’s Daughter”) Lynn went on to win a second Best Female Vocalist Award from the Country Music Association and was the first woman to win the title of Entertainer of the Year in 1972. She also appeared on the cover of Newsweek the next year and wrote her autobiography, a New York Times Bestseller, in 1976. 
Though Lynn spent much of the 1990s out of the public spotlight caring for her sick husband and grieving his loss in 1996, Lynn’s newest album “Van Lear Rose” helped bring her influence to a new genera­tion of 21st century fans. The 2010 release of “Coal Miner’s Daughter: A Tribute to Loretta Lynn” includes covers of her songs by Reba McEntire, Carrie Underwood, Martina McBride, Alan Jackson, Faith Hill, Sheryl Crow and Paramore. 
Tickets for Lynn’s concert went on sale Dec. 18 at the Morris Box Office, Super Sounds in Goshen, Hammes Bookstore in South Bend, Eddy Street Commons and Karma Records in Plymouth & Warsaw, with a limit of eight tickets per per­son. 
All biography, discography, tour, and news information about Lynn can be found at her website, LorettaLynn.com. 




BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 8, 2011 
NFL 

Super Bowl MVP Rodgers savors championship celebration 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. — Aaron Rodgers’ smile never faded as he rode on the back of a con­vertible pacing down a confetti-filled parade route through Disney World’s Magic Kingdom on Monday afternoon. 
The Super Bowl MVP was operating on only a few hours’ sleep following Green Bay’s 31­25 win over Pittsburgh Sunday. But even with a Florida after­noon storm threatening in the distance, it was clear nothing could cloud the Packer quar­terback’s spirit. 
“It’s a special day, it really is,” Rodgers said afterward. “I didn’t get a lot of sleep (Sunday) night, but it’s great to be able to celebrate. This is a team that came together and accomplished something spe­cial.” 
Rodgers became the latest Super Bowl MVP to participate in Disney’s “I’m going to Disney World” commercial series Sunday night, which celebrated its 25th anniversary this year. Former New York Giants Phil Simms was the first to do it in 1987 following Super Bowl 
XXI. Rodgers flew to Orlando from Texas on Monday. 
A California native, Rodgers said he had been to Disneyland in Anaheim, but never to Orlando’s Disney World. Thousands of fans lined Main Street in the theme park Monday, many of them decked out in Packers’ jerseys, T-shirts and cheesehead hats. 

Rodgers posed for photos with the Disney characters and even took a bite of a specially-made block of cheese in the shape of the Packers’ team emblem. 
Rodgers said that even with the victory, he doesn’t expect the comparisons to former Green Bay quarterback Brett Favre to end. Favre led the Packers to their previous Super Bowl win in 1997, but unlike Rodgers, was not named the game’s MVP. 
“I don’t think they ever stop because I’m the guy that fol­lowed him,” Rodgers said. “But I hope. You know, we’re doing something special in Green Bay right now and I hope people can recognize that. I’m proud of the way our team came together this season. 
“Thankfully I have two par­ents that raised me the right way and pushed me to be the best at whatever I did. And I wanted to be a football player. So, right now I’m at the top of my game.” 
Longtime Packers’ fan Mike Gottlieb has lived in Orlando for the past 25 years, but is originally for Milwaukee. 
One of the founders of the Central Florida Packer Backers, a fan club that started in 1987, Gottlieb and the group had about 100 of its members at Disney Monday to see Rodgers. Also one of the pub-licly-owned Packers’ part-own­ers, Gottlieb said he thinks the ghost of Favre no longer hangs over Rodgers. 
“I don’t know if there was a monkey on his back, because the Packers did what they said they were going to do,” said Gottlieb, 52. “They said they were going to stand by him, no matter what happened to Brett and they did. And I think (Rodgers) appreciates it, too. … I think he’ll be with the Packers forever and he could have another three or four (titles) in him.” 
Rodgers’ performance Sunday night, which included 304 yards passing and three touchdown passes, had some NFL analysts ranking it as one of the best performances by a first-time Super Bowl quarter­back. 
While he appreciates the compliment, Rodgers said was still thinking about his under­whelming effort in Green Bay’s 21-14 NFC championship game win over Chicago. He threw two interceptions and no touchdowns in that game, though he reached the end zone via a 1-yard run. 
“I’m a perfectionist,” Rodgers said. “If I played a little better I think I’d be a little more satis­fied with my postseason, but I prepared to play well (Sunday) and I was able to meet those expectations.” 
Next up for Rodgers is to rejoin his teammates for a cele­bration at Green Bay’s Lambeau Field on Tuesday. But he said it’s the moments with them Sunday night after the game that are continuing to play in his mind. 

“Just in the locker room after the game and being able to reflect with my teammates,” he said. “Big hugs. It’s a special group of men. I think you real­ize at that point the season is over and that group of men is never gonna be together again. It’s just special to be able to share with those guys because we went through a lot together this year.” 
PGA 

Wilson prevails in playoff at Phoenix Open 
Associated Press  chaos; it’s a good distraction. But at that time, I want to at  month in a 36-hole Sunday fin­ish, Wilson made a 4 1/2 -foot  man Match Play field—after finishing last season at No.  lot of long-ball hitters. Mark and myself probably aren’t the  
SCOTTSDALE,  Ariz.  — least get to watch the last 15  par putt on the par-4 18th to  230.  longest, but we’re probably not  
Packers fan Mark Wilson cele­ minutes of this game. This  extend the playoff. He won on  After resuming play Monday  the shortest. But to be able to  
brated a big victory of his own  doesn’t happen every year, the  the par-4 10th, setting up the  on  the  13th  green,  Wilson  compete and be at the top of  
on  a  playing field about  as  Packers in the Super Bowl.  deciding putt with  a  7-iron  made  seven  straight  pars  the field for the week is good,  
close to frozen tundra as it gets  “Luckily, my son, after  we  approach from the middle of  before  holing  the  winning  so it’s definitely good momen­ 
on the PGA Tour.  played Candy Land in the mid- the fairway.  birdie putt.  tum for the rest of the West  
A self-described cheesehead  dle of the fourth quarter, he  “That  was  an  easy putt,”  He  nearly  drove  into  the  Coast swing.”  
from Menomonee Falls, Wis.,  said, `OK, the last two minutes  Wilson said. “Just thankfully, I  water  on  the left side of the  Martin Laird (65) and Vijay  
Wilson won  the frost-delayed  we can watch it together.’ So  started it on line and knocked  18th hole in regulation, but the  Singh (66) tied for third at 16  
Phoenix Open  on  Monday for  we  watched that last stand,  it in.”  ball cleared the hazard and  under, and Gary Woodland  
his second victory in three  and  I  was  happy  that they  Dufner was facing a 7 1/2  -ended up in a bunker. He hit a  (66), J.B. Holmes (67) and Nick  
starts this year, holing a 9-foot  somehow pulled it off.”  foot  par  putt  when  Wilson  9-iron approach to about 14  Watney (68) followed at 15  
birdie putt on the second hole  Delays for frost and frozen  ended the playoff.  feet and two-putted to force  under.  
of a playoff with Jason Dufner.  turf the first four days forced  “Came out and made a cou­ the playoff.  Third-round leader Tommy  
“I’m just enjoying the ride  the Monday finish.  ple birdies to put maybe a little  “I got away with  a  bad tee  Gainey, a stroke back with two  
here and that’s just kind of the  Two strokes ahead when play  heat  on Mark, and he played  shot  on  18, but luckily got  a  holes left, closed with a 74 to  
way I’m going to look at the  resumed  Monday,  Wilson  great,” Dufner said. “Great  good bounce and was hoping  tie for eighth at 14 under. He  
year here, just ride this train  closed with  a  2-under 69 to  two-putt  on  the first playoff  I’d finish it off there,” Wilson  made a triple bogey on the par­ 
as long as I can,” Wilson said.  match Dufner  at  18 under.  hole from 70-plus feet and  said. “But the playoff was fun.”  4 17th after hitting into the  
After  playing  until  dark  Dufner shot a 66, with birdies  makes birdie on the next hole.”  Dufner is winless on the PGA  water twice  on  the driveable  
Sunday and fulfilling  some  on Nos. 16 and 17.  Wilson earned $1,098,000 for  Tour. He also settled for par on  hole.  
parental duties, he was able to  “I was a little more nervous  his fourth PGA Tour title. The  the final hole of regulation  “I guess I’ve just got to deal  
watch only  a  few minutes of  today than I  was  expecting,”  36-year-old former University  after nearly holing out from a  with it,” Gainey said. “You’ve  
the Super Bowl.  Wilson said. “I didn’t sleep  of North Carolina player also  greenside bunker.  got  to  win  with  class  and  
“I had to wash Lane’s face  great last night. It was proba­ won  the 2007 Honda Classic  “It’s a good start to the year,”  you’ve got to lose with class, so  
and put his jammies on, and I  bly the excitement with the  and  2009  Mayakoba  Golf  Dufner said. “To be honest, this  I’m trying to deal with that  
had to eat, too,” Wilson said.  Super Bowl and the uncertain- Classic. He jumped from 91st  is a course that I never really  right now.”  
“The chaos, with two little kids  ty of today.”  to 51st in the world ranking—  thought I could compete  on.  Phil Mickelson tied for 29th  
running around—I like the  The Sony Open winner last  locking up  a  spot in the 64­ History on this golf course is a  at 10 under.  

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
VINCE LOMBARDI QUOTES  “Football is like life - it requires per­ “The difference between a success- 
FOR RENT  NOTICES  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  “Confidence is contagious. So is  severance, self-denial, hard work, sacrifice, dedication and respect for  ful person and others is not a lack of strength, not a lack of knowl­ 
Don't go it alone.  lack of confidence.”  authority.”  edge, but rather a lack of will.”  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  
GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT  Notre Dame has many resources in  “The dictionary is the only place  “It's easy to have faith in yourself  “The greatest accomplishment is  
RENTAL: House for rent for gradua- If you or someone you care about  place to assist you.  that success comes before work.  and have discipline when you're a  not in never falling, but in rising  
tion/JPW/weddings,football, etc.  has been sexually assaulted, we  Hard work is the price we must pay  winner, when you're number one.  again after you fall.”  
Perfect location-right next to the  can help.  If you or someone you love needs  for success. I think you can accom- What you got to have is faith and  ———————————————  
new Eddy Street Commons-walk to  confidential support or assistance,  plish anything if you're willing to pay  discipline when you're not a win- 
everything-safe family oriented  For more information, visit Notre  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819.  the price.”  ner.”  The measure of who we are is what  
street.  Dames website:  ———————————————  ———————————————  we do with what we have.  
For more information, visit ND's  “If it doesn't matter who wins or  “Perfection is not attainable, but if  ———————————————  
Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for  http://csap.nd.edu  website at: http://pregnancysup­ loses, then why do they keep  we chase perfection we can catch  “We would accomplish many more  
additional info and photos  port@nd.edu  score?”  excellence.”  things if we did not think of them as  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  impossible.”  

Tuesday, February 8, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
NBA 

Cavs set NBA futility mark 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — Over one season or two, no team in NBA history has lost as many games in a row as these Cleveland Cavaliers. 
The surging Dallas Mavericks beat Cleveland 99-96 on Monday night, making it 25 straight losses for the Cavs. 
Cleveland already held the record for the most losses in a single season, but the league also keeps a record for losses spread over two seasons. This topped that one, too, making it the most consecutive losses in league his­tory, period. 
The previous record also was held by the Cavaliers, set from 1982-83. 
Cleveland had a chance to tie it with a 3-pointer in the final sec­onds, but made one pass too many and time expired without a shot going up. 
Jason Terry scored 11 of his 23 points in the fourth quarter to make sure the Mavs avoided the embarrassment of being Cleveland’s streak-buster. It would’ve been especially surpris­ing because Dallas came in with the longest active win streak in the NBA, now nine straight. 
Shawn Marion had 17 points and 10 rebounds, and Dirk Nowitzki scored 12. Tyson Chandler had 12 points and 11 rebounds, and Ian Mahinmi had 11 points and eight rebounds. 
Peja Stojakovic had eight points and five rebounds over 20 min­utes in his Dallas debut. He signed a few weeks ago, but had been rehabilitating a knee injury. 
Cleveland’s J.J. Hickson scored 26 points and Ramon Sessions had 19 points and 13 assists. 

Antawn Jamison scored 18 points and Christian Eyenga 15. 
Everyone knew Cleveland would struggle this season after losing LeBron James, but this? 
Since starting 7-9, the Cavs are 1-35. Their last win was on Dec. 18, more than seven weeks ago. Their only glimmer of hope is that the next seven games are at home, where their .227 winning percentage is more than double their success rate on the road. 
At least they’re still playing hard — in many ways. 
They were physical with Dallas, wounding several Mavericks. Nowitzki needed treatment on a jammed wrist and was so frus­trated by the rough play that he got rough, too, practically throw­ing a punch at Sessions in the final minute. A foul was called on the play, but not a flagrant. 
Yet Cleveland kept goofing up. 

With the Cavs trailing only 80­79, 7-foot center Ryan Hollins lost a jump ball to Terry, who is 6-foot-2. Hollins fouled Terry on the ensuing possession, and he hit a pair of free throws. Then Eyenga shot an airball on a run­ning 8-footer in the lane and Terry came back with another jumper. 
The Mavs began to pull away, but the Cavs still had that chance to tie it at the buzzer. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
season. 

“I absolutely love playing with Chrissy and I think we play really well together,” Kellner said, “I always look forward to it.” 
Most recently, the pair defeated Wake Forest dou­bles partners Ryann Cutillo and Emilee Malvehy in an country, and has made the transition into college play with ease. 
“The matches are way louder but it’s fun and moti­vating,” Kellner said. “Since I’ve been playing in college it feels really good to win my match because I feel like I’m doing it for the team,” Kellner said. 
The veteran members of 
the team are excited for the dynamic of play that Kellner brings. 


8-6 victory. “Jenny is a
“Jenny is a freshman
Kellner, a freshman Pasquerilla and played fve and played East resident, matches and really five matches had her (against
just dominated.” 
choice of uni-Illinois) and versities really just when came Kristy Frilling dominated,” time to Irish junior said junior 
choose where she would continue her education and tennis career. The freshman explored her options at Boston College, North Carolina, Michigan and Illinois before settling at Notre Dame. 
“I loved the campus, the team, the school … I could just see myself going here,” Kellner said. 
So far, Kellner has been a good fit for the team, who lost two of their main com­petitors with the last gradu­ating class. She’s been fair­ly consistent in her singles play at the No. 5 spot, where she is currently 3-2 and ranked 106th in the 
Nationals 
continued from page 16 

met a minimum degree of difficulty were eligible to compete in a preliminary qualifying competition, held the previous Sunday. The top 12 performers from the preliminary round moved on to the quarterfinal round of Nationals, which was held 
on the campus of the University of Iowa. Many of the nation ’s strongest divers — including sev-Kristy 
Frilling 
“We’re really 
looking for­ward to the things she ’s going to bring to the team this year.” 
Kellner has truly enjoyed her time with the other girls on the team, as well as the special dynamic the coaches add during road trips. 
“On our trip to North Carolina our coach thought the lyrics to ‘Fly Like a G6’ was really ‘Fly Like a Cheese Steak ’,” Kellner said. “We got a good laugh over that.” 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
really badly.” 
Chiang typically attends meets with the rest of her team, but diving coach Caiming Xie was the only member of the Notre Dame diving team or staff that accompanied her to Iowa. While the competition lacked the team cama ­raderie present at college meets, Chiang was able to check out non -collegiate competition and catch up with old friends. 
“A lot of friends that I 
know from 
previous 
meets were 
there,” 


eral Olympians “Jenny is a freshman Chiang said. 
— were in “It’s really 
and played fve
attendance, nice to see 
matches and really
and the final a change; in results were just dominated.” college we used to deter-compete mine the against a lot 
Kristy Frilling 
American con-of schools 
Irish diver
tingent for that are just 
major interna­tional competi­tions, including the World University Games, Canada Cup, AT&T USA Diving Grand Prix and World Championships. 
Chiang, who had not par­ticipated in a national meet since her junior year of high school, gave a strong per­formance in the 3-meter springboard event at the National Preliminary com­petition, finishing in second place. But the quarterfinal round did not go as she had hoped, and she failed to qualify for the semifinals after scoring 232.30 points, good for 29th place. 
“My performance in pre­lims went really well, I ended up in second going into quarterfinals, but I wasn’t really happy with my performance at quarterfi­nals,” Chiang said. “It went around us, 
so it’s nice 
to see peo­
ple from all over the country, a lot of people I haven’t seen in a while.” 
Although Chiang was not completely satisfied with her dives on Friday, she still relished the opportunity to compete in such a high-pro­file event, and hopes to attend another USA Diving event this coming summer. 
“It’s a great meet to go see because there’s so many really, really talented divers there, especially this year because it was a qualifying meet for Olympic trials and the Grand Prix, ” said Chiang. “It’s a good meet to go to because it motivates you to do better and work harder.” 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 8, 2011 
CLUB SPORTS 

Skating team makes history 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame synchro­nized skating team made his­tory on Feb. 5, taking the gold medal at the prestigious Midwestern Synchronized Skating Sectional Championships. The Irish took the title for the first time in the history of Notre Dame ’s skating program, which was founded in 1997. The Irish skaters saved their best performance for the most important competition of the year. Performing this season’s program to songs from the Broadway musical Hair, the team brought the crowd to its feet. The sup­portive contingent of Notre Dame fans started an ovation as the team nailed their diffi­cult final element, a straight-line wheel variation where half the team ducks and con­tinues to rotate while their teammates pass over the top 
of 
them. Notre Dame topped eight 

other 
teams from colleges throughout the Midwest, with Ohio University and Central Michigan University taking the second and third place spots on the podium. The Irish victory ended an unbeaten streak for perenni­al synchronized skating pow­erhouse Miami University of Ohio. The Redhawks had previously been undefeated since the inception of their program in 2007. 


Women’s Water Polo 
In a successful weekend, the Irish gave up only seven goals in three games to win the Lindenwood tournament in commanding fashion. 
The Irish Women’s Water Polo team kicked off the weekend strong with a 7-2 victory over their rivals from the Big Ten, the University of Illinois. The Irish offense was led by five-time scorer junior Maisie O’Malley and the defense was led by senior Ali Durkin, who finished the match with six steals. The Irish shot well from the out­side throughout the game, with one goal each from jun­iors Erin Gibson and Kasia Ahern. Senior Eileen 

“I am really impressed
Flanagan was head over impenetrable with the success we’ve heels excited in the goal for our next 
had so far this 
with eight race.” 
season.” 
saves to help The women’s the Irish hold ski team came off the Illini. Deirdre Murdy in first place 
The second overall and 
Ski team manager
game of the had four day for the skiers finish in Irish was the top 10. against St. Senior Justine Louis University and the Irish Murnane and freshman came away with a decisive Hillary Rolfs finished one-victory, 15-2. Flanagan and two, while freshman Kelly Gibson split time in the Kathleen Joyce placed sixth goal, letting in only one goal and freshman Erin Hattler each to lead the Irish to vic-placed 10th. tory. Durkin had five goals in The men’s ski team placed the two -meter position, Victoria Anglin had a hat trick, and sophomore Laura McCoy chipped in two goals. Juniors Ahern, Gibson, Colleen Middleton, and Danielle Guidry each scored one goal. 

The Irish finished the weekend with a 13 -5 win over home team Lindenwood University. They dominated the game with their stifling defense and Flanagan had 10 saves in the goal. Durkin, Gibson, O’Malley and Anglin each had three goals and McCoy finished the game with one. 
The “B” team for the Irish also competed in the Lindenwood tournament and won their first match before dropping the next two. 
They started the weekend with a 12 -11 win over St. Louis University. McCoy led the Irish in the two-meter position with three goals. Sophomore Savannah Hayes, junior Danielle Guidry, and freshman Anastasia Hansen recorded two goals. Junior Adi Austgen, senior Liz Casazza and freshman Raechel Glenister had one goal each. 
The “B” squad finished the day on Saturday with a 13-7 loss to host Lindenwood. McCoy once again dominated the offense with six goals. Hansen had one goal to help the Irish close the gap. 
The Irish finished the weekend with an 8-2 loss to the University of Illinois. They had a difficult time with the Illini’s stifling defense but McCoy and Hayes were both able to get one goal on the net. 
Ski and Snowboard 

The Irish skied well in the MCSA Divisional Championships over the weekend at Crystal Mountain in Thompsonville, Mich., recording a first and second place victory. 
“I am really impressed with the success we’ve had so far this season,” team manager Deirdre Murdy said. “We have broken through some major obsta ­cles and have come back strong. I am 
second overall with sopho­more Tommy Knoedler finish­ing second, senior Chris Knoedler in eighth and senior Kevin Dacey in 10th. 
The women’s snowboard team took third place and was led by senior Erin McNeill, who took home the gold. 
The men’s snowboard team took sixth place overall. Freshman Phil Stella placed sixth, which was top for the Irish. 
The team will move on to compete in the USCSA Regional Championships at Marquette Mountain on Feb. 19-20. 
Bowling 

Led by coach Dan Dews, Notre Dame pulled off their best result in a tournament in years, finishing 11th out of 39 teams at the final qualify­ing conference tournament. 
With an average of near 940 pins per set, the Irish posted their best score of the season. Freshman Mike Murray finished with a 202.6 pin average to lead the Irish. Senior co-captain Drew Crail, junior co -captain Richard Skelton, junior Brian Frisch and sophomore Armani Sutton all bowled well and contributed to the strong result. 
The Irish have two tourna­ments remaining, the Hoosier and the American Heartland Conference Championship, both later this month. 
Women’s Ice Hockey 

Notre Dame dropped two games this weekend when it hosted the Brew City Blades this weekend at the Joyce Center ice rink. 
Against Brew City, which is one of the best teams in the league, the Irish fell in games both Friday evening and Saturday morning. Senior Karen Riedl scored Notre Dame ’s only goal for the weekend Friday evening on a breakaway late in the second period. 
The Irish will bus to Wisconsin for a pair of games this weekend in Madison. 
Men’s Volleyball 

The Irish men’s volleyball squad ventured to Marquette this weekend for a MIVA tournament featuring many 
n a t i o n a l l y  r a n k e d  c l u b s ,  
p r o v i n g  t h a t  t h e y  b e l o n g  
among the elite.  

They opened play with a 25-22, 25-20 win over Ball State, and a 31-29, 21-25, 15-5 victory over Iowa State. 
The Irish then swept through three more strong opponents, gaining wins 25­20, 25-23 over Oshkosh, 25­23, 21 -25, 15 -10 over Lakeland, and 29-27, 25-22 over Northern Illinois. Notre Dame dropped their last game to perennially ranked UW Milwaukee, 25-17, 25-18. 
MLB 

Rangers looking to trade infelder Young 

Associated Press 

ARLINGTON, Texas — Michael Young has asked the Texas Rangers to trade him, a request the AL champions are willing to oblige for their career hits leader who is unhappy about his changing role. 
General manager Jon Daniels, however, said “nothing is immi­nent” and that the Rangers would trade Young only if they could improve the team in doing so. 
After signing free agent third baseman Adrian Beltre last month, the Rangers said Young would become the primary des­ignated hitter and serve in a utility role where he could fill in at every infield position. Young, the team’s longest-tenured play­er after 10 seasons, initially agreed to that plan. 
“Our first choice would be to continue with our offseason plan and go to camp with Michael and him playing pivotal role on the club,” Daniels said Monday. “He’s changed his mind, had a change of heart about that role, and if we can accommodate his request, and in doing so upgrade the club, we certainly would like to do that.” 
What could make that difficult is that Young is owed $46 mil­lion over the remaining three seasons in contract — $15 mil­lion in each of the next two sea­sons and $16 million in 2013. Plus, there are only eight teams not on his no-trade list. 
Team president Nolan Ryan, who spoke to Young twice over the last few days, said that list hasn’t expanded at this point. 
Daniels said he has already been approached by some clubs not on Young’s list, though he wouldn’t get into specifics about who they were. 
“It certainly hasn’t gotten to a point where we’ve presented Michael with anything because he’s been clear on his feelings about that,” Daniels said. 
The 34-year-old Young has spent his entire major league career with Texas, and played in 1,508 regular season games before finally making it to the playoffs last season. A .300 career hitter whose 1,848 hits are the most in Rangers history, he also had five consecutive 200-hit season (2003-07) and led the AL with a .331 average in 2005. 
Young was a second baseman when he became a starter for Texas in 2001, then switched to shortstop after Alex Rodriguez was traded in 2004. The Rangers moved Young to third base two years ago when they decided to promote rookie shortstop Elvis Andrus from Double-A. 
When Beltre was signed, Young said it was clear that he wanted to play with the Rangers because of his willingness to “make some pretty big sacri­fices” to do that. Now a month later, Young is looking to leave so that he can be an everyday player in the field instead of doing what is planned in Texas. 
Young indicated in those recent conversations with Ryan that he initially accepted the role because he has made the Dallas area his home, where his family is comfortable. The California native also wants to be on a winning team. 
“I think once he had time to think about his career and about his future, I think he felt like the time wasn’t right for him to take on that role,” Ryan said. 
Excited about the unique plans for Young, Ryan said he tried to assure the player that manager Ron Washington would be giving him the same number of at-bats he has always gotten. And the acquisi­tion of catcher-first baseman and potential DH Mike Napoli after the Beltre signing wouldn’t change that. 
“Obviously at this point his mindset is that in the best inter­est of his career, it’d probably be better for him to move on and continue to play a position on a daily basis,” Ryan said. 
Young was among several teammates Josh Hamilton worked out with Monday. The AL MVP said there was no real sense of what might happen and if Young would be at spring training for the Rangers’ first full-squad workout Feb. 20 in Surprise, Ariz. 

Tuesday, February 8, 2011 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
TENNIS 

Nadal awarded with sportsman of the year 
Associated Press 
ABU DHABI, United Arab Emirates — Rafael Nadal and Olympic skiing champion Lindsey Vonn won this year’s individual Laureus Sports Awards on Monday, with Spain’s World Cup winners tak­ing the team prize. 
The No. 1-ranked Nadal— winner of three Grand Slam tennis titles in 2010— was named sportsman of the year, beating nominees including Los Angeles Lakers star Kobe Bryant, Filipino boxer Manny Pacquiao and Barcelona foot­ballers Andres Iniesta and Lionel Messi. 
Vonn, winner of the women’s downhill at the Vancouver Games and a third consecutive overall World Cup title, took the sportswoman’s award. High jumper Blanka Vlasic and ten­nis players Serena Williams, Kim Clijsters and Caroline Wozniacki were among the other nominees. 
French football great Zinedine Zidane won the life­time achievement award and American surfer Kelly Slater was the action sportsperson of the year. Italy’s seven-time motorcycling world champion Valentino Rossi took the come­back of the year award after he returned to MotoGP just 41 

days after breaking his leg. PGA champion Martin Kaymer, currently ranked No. 2 
in  the  world,  won  the  
Breakthrough  of  the  Year  
Award.  

“That is pretty cool. This tro­phy, this award,” said Kaymer, who won this year’s Abu Dhabi Championship. “Every time I come to Abu Dhabi, it’s fantas­tic. Here is pretty much where everything started for me. In 2008, I had my first European Tour win.” 
Kaymer paid tribute to his brother and sometime caddie, Philip, calling him “the most important person in my life.” 
The victorious European Ryder Cup team won the Spirit of Sport Award. Accepting the award was captain Colin Montgomerie, who dedicated it to Seve Ballesteros, the five-time major winner and former No. 1 who has been suffering from a brain tumor. 
“We won this because of him,” Montgomerie said. “He spoke to us on the phone from his home and Martin (Kaymer) as a rookie can tell you that the room was silent.” 
Visually impaired skier and biathlete Verena Bentele, who won five gold medals at the Winter Olympics, won the Disability Award, while Beirut Marathon founder May El-Khalil won the Sport for Good Award. 
The winners are chosen by 46 sports stars who make up the Laureus sports academy. 
Nadal is recovering after injuring a leg muscle during his quarterfinal loss at the Australian Open in late January, which ended his hopes of holding all four Grand Slam titles at once. 
“It was an emotional season especially after coming from a hard time in 2009,” Nadal said of his injury problems. “I had a hard time in Australia and then I started playing my best ten­nis. Winning in 2010 during the Roland Garros final … all the problems went out and I could play with a lot of confidence.” 
Vonn is meanwhile preparing for the Alpine skiing world championships in Germany, where she is seeking to defend her super-G title. 
Spain claimed the team prize after beating the Netherlands 1-0 with Iniesta’s extra time winner in last year’s World Cup final. The triumph came two years after Spain won the European Championship. 
Proceeds from the awards ceremony underpin the work of the Laureus Sport for Good Foundation which supports 83 community sports projects around the world. 

NFL 

Titans hire O-line coach Munchak to replace Fisher 
into the Pro Football Hall of tants are under contract. That 
Associated Press 

Fame. He has the respect of includes Heimerdinger, who 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — A usu-people he played with and said by text to the AP that he is ally conservative Mike those who have played for him. happy for Munchak and Munchak showed off much He is a smart football man and expects him to do a good job. more of his personality Monday leader who will guide us again He isn’t committing to any-at his first news conference as into the playoffs.” one just yet. head coach of the Tennessee Munchak was the first man “I feel like we’re starting Titans. interviewed to replace Fisher fresh. It’s not same old, same 
He made jokes about how he and had been considered the old. We come in, sit down and expected a gold watch after 30 top candidate for the job. figure out what’s best for the years with the franchise, how it This is the first head coach-Titans going forward with what will be easier for his mother to ing job for Munchak, who turns we have … Anything’s possi­see him on the sideline now 51 in March, with the only ble,” Munchak said. and even poked fun at his quiet franchise the offensive line Munchak has to fill at least manner. coach and Hall of Fame line-five positions left open by his 
“This is my excited face,” man has ever played or worked promotion, the firing of defen-Munchak said at one point. for since being selected eighth sive coordinator Chuck Cecil 
The new coach also made overall by the then-Houston and departures of assistants one thing very clear: Change is Oilers in 1982. coaching defensive line, run-coming, even though he General manager Mike ning backs, wide receivers. His coached under Jeff Fisher the Reinfeldt and senior executive best friend and former team-past 14 seasons. vice president Steve mate Bruce Matthews is con­
“I’m going to be my own Underwood also interviewed sidered a possibility to replace man, and I’ll be judged by offensive coordinator Mike him on the line, but he is offen­what I do and not what was Heimerdinger and wrapped up sive assistant coach with done before me. I’m not look-interviews Friday by talking to Houston. ing here to blame anybody Atlanta offensive coordinator Munchak’s promotion is about what was left for me,” Mike Mularkey and New York being praised by those who regular season games with the comfort level with him and Munchak said. “I think it’s a Giants defensive coordinator know him with Penn State Oilers before retiring in 1994, everyone knows who he is as a great opportunity here with Perry Fewell in the same day. coach Joe Paterno calling him and he became the fifth player coach and a person.” what we have, and I think I’m Saints defensive coordinator a hard worker. Detroit coach from the franchise inducted He started at the entry-level the guy to pick up the pieces Gregg Williams declined to Jim Schwartz said he didn’t into the Hall of Fame—the first position as quality control and hopefully get us in the interview. realize how respected to spend his entire career with assistant with the offensive right direction.” But Munchak is well respect-Munchak is throughout the Adams’ team. staff through 1996. Fisher pro-
Munchak is the franchise’s ed in the franchise. NFL until he left Tennessee. Munchak also had the club moted Munchak to offensive 16th head coach. Neither he or Reinfeldt, a former team-“I am known as someone record with nine Pro Bowl line coach in 1997, a job he the Titans would comment on mate, called Munchak a smart who burns the midnight oil, berths during his career. held the past 14 seasons. his new contract. The Titans football man who commands and consistently Mike Adams retired Munchak’s No. Munchak thanked Fisher for decided to promote from within respect and accountability. Munchak’s car was the only 63 in 1996, joining Campbell, the opportunity. to replace Fisher after a 6-10 “He is a leader,” Reinfeldt one left in the parking lot when Jim Norton and Elvin Bethea in Munchak has only had the season. Owner Bud Adams said. “I think he has a vision, I left. Titans fans can sleep rare company with that honor. same starting five offensive called the move a special day and he has great passion for it. well knowing Munch is at the Moon said in a statement linemen from one season to the for the franchise as Munchak I think it’s good. He has an helm. I know I did,” Schwartz released by the Titans that “it next twice during his 14 sea-became the first former player understanding of our people, said in a statement. was just a matter of time until sons. But he has had four play-to coach the team. what we’ve done here, and I Coming out of Penn State, the he would have success in ers earn 10 total Pro Bowl invi­
“He has been a hard worker, think he has a vision of how left guard blocked for fellow coaching. Some folks have to tations while blocking for five and he has only known success he’d take it to the next level.” Hall of Famers Earl Campbell go the coordinator route to different running backs in 11 and how to achieve success,” Munchak will have flexibility in a pounding run game to the reach the head coaching level, 1,000-yard seasons ranging Adams said by telephone from to fill his staff as he wants, run-and-shoot offense with but being in the organization from Eddie George to Chris his Houston office. “He made it even though 13 current assis-Warren Moon. He played 159 as long as he has, there is a Johnson. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 8, 2011 
MEN’S TRACK AND FIELD 
Indiana native Feeney fulflls lifetime dream 
By JOE WIRTH six all-conference teams and 
Sports Writer was captain of each squad. 
Feeney accumulated numer-
Coming off a remarkable ous school and conference high school career, freshman records while in high school. Patrick Feeney is already try-He broke the school, confer­ing to make his ence and sec-mark at Notre tional records Dame. for the 400­
Feeney, a meter dash native of “My goals for the with a time of Indianapolis, season are to keep 47.56. He also was a multi-recorded a
lowering my times
sport athlete in 3:18 in the high school. each and every meet.” 4x400 relay to While attending break the New Palestine school and 
Patrick Feeney 
high school, he conference 
Irish freshman 
was an eight-record. time letter win-Despite ner in track and being a good field, football athlete, and basketball. Among the Feeney said he chose track by three sports, he was elected to default simply because he did 

Defense 
continued from page 16 
lower prior Saturday’s 76-68 victory. McGraw said the win was not a strong showing of the team’s talent. 
“We’re first in the Big East in steals, but then we only had five, and we normally have 12,” she said. “We hold teams to 53 points a game, and they had 68. I think the team was disappointed in their defensive effort, and I think they will come out tomorrow with a renewed energy on the defen­sive end.” 
Notre Dame’s defense has been especially useful in its transition game and getting points on the board. Essential to these efforts are sophomore guard Skylar Diggins and jun­ior guard Natalie Novosel, the team’s leading scorers. Diggins came out of Saturday’s contest with 17 points while Novosel scored a team-high 19 with eight rebounds. 
“We’ve been scoring in tran­sition, I think we’ve been feed­ing off our defense when we go in transition, and Skylar and Natalie are both extreme­ly hard to guard on the open floor,” McGraw said. “They’re so savvy with the ball and they can really attack the basket, they can both hit good jumpers, so it makes them really hard to guard.” 
But the Irish guards aren’t the only important forces on the offense. 
“We really are back offen­sively, I’m really pleased,” McGraw said. “The posts are playing well, they’re scoring, they’re shooting well, guards are playing well. Offensively, a lot of good performances from each individual player. Everybody who goes in the game is scoring and we’re doing a pretty good job of that.” 
McGraw said she has been pleased with Notre Dame’s post play, particularly the con­tributions from freshman Natalie Achonwa and seniors Devereaux Peters and Becca Bruszewski. 
“Devereaux is having a fan­tastic year. Becca Bruszewski has really come a long way, scored her thousandth point [at Syracuse], she had 16 the other night, she had double figures, she’s rebounding bet­ter, and then Achonwa coming off the bench, she’s scoring I think about 14 points and only playing 19 or 20 minutes,” McGraw said. “I think all three of them are really play­ing well. We need to get them the ball more and their shoot­ing percentages have been tremendous. They’re all shoot­ing well, I think over 60 per­cent in the last four games.” 
The Irish will look to their scoring to earn them their 19th series win over the Pirates tonight as the two teams face off at 7 p.m. at Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 

not have a sport to play in the accepted then it definitely spring season. would be the place for me.” 
“I started running track in Feeney said that although sixth grade mainly because I running track is very challeng­didn’t have a spring sport and ing and time consuming, the everyone was camaraderie telling me I was with the fast,” Feeney said. other play-
He explained ers makes it 
that coming to Notre Dame was  “Running in college is  fun and worth it.  
always a dream of  a lot more serious, but  “ R u n n i n g  
his and he knew if  at the same time still  in college is  
he had the creden­tials, his college  very fun.”  a lot more serious, but  
choice would not  at the  same  
be a question.  Patrick Feeney  time  still  
“I have always  Irish freshman  very  fun,”  
been a huge Notre  Feeney said.  
Dame football fan  “We all have  
and have  come to  fun together  
games all my life,”  at practice,  

Feeney said. “Throughout high but we still work really hard school I knew if I could get and get the work done.” 
said. “That definitely seemed to work for us.”
Seniors 

The run, which lasted 7:12, continued from page 16 contained two separate 8-0 spurts by the Belles and saw 
down a 3-pointer with 17:55 left, the Thunder trailed 35­29. 
The Belles, however, behind the strength of a staunch 2-3 zone defense, responded with a decisive 20-4 run that stretched the lead to a game-high 22 points. Saint Mary’s junior forward Kelley Murphy scored six of her game-high 16 points during the stretch. 
“We wanted all our points to come from the paint and attack a little more,” Henley Trine shoot just 1-for-7 from the field and commit four turnovers. 
“We’ve been playing around with [the 2-3 zone] the last few weeks. Our kids talk a lot more defensively when we’re in that,” Henley said. “They like to play it, so that’s half the battle.” 
Saint Mary’s outrebounded Trine 45-28 and pulled down 21 offensive rebounds, leading to a 15-point edge in second chance points and a 14-point 
Feeney said that while he does have individual goals for the rest of the season, he places a higher priority on contributing to the team’s suc­cess. 
“My goals for the season are to keep lowering my times each and every meet and also help the team score some points at Big East,” Feeney said. “Our main goal for our team is to win Big East Indoor and Outdoor and also try to get everyone to qualify farther into regionals and nationals.” 
The Irish track and field team will next be in action at the Big East indoor champi­onships on Feb. 19 in Akron, Ohio. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
advantage in points in the paint. Seven different Belles notched an offensive rebound, including all five starters. 
“That’s one of the things we’ve been working on all sea­son long,” Henley said. “We had the height advantage on this team. Our kids are playing really well and good things are happening, especially on the boards.” 
Saint Mary’s will next look to gain ground in the MIAA standings with a road contest against Albion (11-10, 9-3) on Saturday at 3 p.m. 
Contact Matt DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Pittsburgh wins without Gibbs 
Associated Press 

MORGANTOWN, W.Va.— Pittsburgh had a solid Plan B for West Virginia in the absence of injured guard Ashton Gibbs 
— spread the ball around inside to the Panthers’ other playmak­ers. 
The fourth-ranked Panthers overcame an awful start by shooting 61 percent from the field in the second half and beat No. 25 West Virginia 71-66 on Monday night. 
Without Gibbs, the Panthers’ leading scorer (16.3) who is out up to two weeks with a left knee injury, Pittsburgh had little out­side shooting presence—and it didn’t matter. The Panthers, who lead the nation in rebound­ing margin, outrebounded West Virginia 40-28 on the strength of 18 offensive boards. 
“We really focused on rebounding,” Pittsburgh coach Jamie Dixon said. “We cut down their offensive rebounds. We won with our rebounding and defense and that’s what we set out to do.” 
From start to finish, Pittsburgh pounded the ball inside, piling up 42 points in the paint against a Mountaineers defense that eventually wore down. 
Nasir Robinson scored 15 points, Gary McGhee had 13, Travon Woodall added 12 and Brad Wanamaker scored 11 for the Panthers (22-2, 10-1 Big East). 
“Ashton is a good player and a great shotmaker for us and without him, we just wanted to come out and play our game,” Wanamaker said. “We didn’t want to try and fill in his shoes. We just wanted to stay with Pitt basketball and get the guys that sub in to play their game.” 
Pittsburgh went hard to the glass after being held to a sea-son-low 23 points in the first half. The Panthers went ahead to stay with 8 minutes left in the game to improve to 5-0 on the road in the Big East and contin­ue their best overall start in conference play. 
This is the 10th straight sea­son Pitt has won at least 20 games overall and at least 10 in the Big East, the conference’s longest current streak. 
West Virginia coach Bob Huggins had pointed to the Pittsburgh game as a possible jump start to a solid final month of the Big East race. Instead, the Mountaineers’ shortcomings showed and West Virginia (15­8, 6-5) has now lost three of its last five. 
“They beat us to death on the offensive glass and drove it where they wanted to drive it,” Huggins said. “They just out-manned us.” 
Huggins said without Gibbs, “they just attack the rim.” 
In the first half, “we con­verged on the guys that were driving,” Huggins said. 
The second half was another matter. 
Pittsburgh had just three turnovers after halftime, shot 61 percent (17 of 28) from the field in the second half and 44 percent for the game. 
Deniz Kilicli scored a career-high 19 points and Kevin Jones added 12 for the Mountaineers, but West Virginia’s bench outscored its starters 34-32. 
West Virginia guard Casey Mitchell played 24 minutes in a backup role after being rein­stated a game earlier from an indefinite suspension, but he wasn’t much help. The Mountaineers’ leading scorer was limited to seven points on 2-of-10 shooting. 
West Virginia was aching for any kind of offense after man­aging a season-low 50 points in Saturday’s loss at No. 9 Villanova and Kilicli provided it. 
He scored on a left-handed baby hook and made a three-point play 25 seconds apart to bring West Virginia within 59­58 with 4:03 remaining. 
Gilbert Brown made a layup and a three-point play during Pittsburgh’s ensuing 12-4 run. Robinson’s dunk with 19 sec­onds left capped the run and put Pittsburgh ahead 71-62. 
“They threw the first punch today,” Wanamaker said. “We settled down a little and came back in the second half and made some plays, penetrated and got guys open looks.” 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  28  
29  30  31  32  33  
34  35  36  
37  38  39  
40  41  42  
43  44  45  
46  47  48  
49  50  51  52  53  
54  55  56  57  58  59  
60  61  62  
63  64  65  

Tuesday, February 8, 2011 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD 

Across 37What every 1 The old man answeronthe 
perimeter of this 
4 Like a pool 
puzzle is 
table, ideally 
40Brit's baby 
9 Flights like 
buggy
Lindy's 
41Wings, in 
14French coin of 
zoology
old 

42Musical featuring 
15Fail to pay, as 
“Tomorrow” 
taxes 
43Schoolyard 
16Native New 

snitch's words
Zealanders 

45Activist Chávez 
17Yadda, yadda,

yadda: Abbr. 46English poetlaureate Henry 
18“Dang it!” 
James___
19“Primitive” 

47Millennium divs. 
feelings 

48Exclamations of 
20___fiber 

understanding
22QB's successes 
49Reporter's 
23Dawn goddess question

24Like a bug in a 50Gets the best of, rug in slang 26Two, for many 54Tony's “West minigolf holes Side Story” love 29Postlarval 
57Make sense 32Burn, asa 59One in the wound family, informally 34Last Supper 60Norwegian king query until A.D. 1000 35Quantities: Abbr. 61Be dishonest 36Not much with 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
M  A  R  C  A  F  R  O  L  U  R  E  D  
E  L  I  A  L  E  I  S  E  N  O  L  A  
S  T  A  N  D  B  A  C  K  T  A  S  E  R  
S  O  L  A  R  T  H  A  T  S  W  A  C  K  
S  I  B  R  I  T  A  
B  R  A  T  P  A  C  K  P  A  R  K  A  S  
L  I  S  A  B  O  O  M  L  E  A  S  H  
I  F  I  C  A  R  J  A  C  K  R  P  I  
P  L  A  Z  A  P  A  I  R  E  M  I  R  
S  E  N  I  L  E  K  N  A  P  S  A  C  K  
P  L  A  N  M  R  T  
S  P  I  C  E  R  A  C  K  O  A  T  E  S  
A  R  M  O  R  T  H  U  M  B  T  A  C  K  
S  A  U  D  I  C  A  R  D  E  I  R  E  
H  Y  P  E  D  H  I  T  S  S  L  U  E  

62Equal: Prefix631/60 fluid dram64Guiding principle65Repeated
machine gunsound 
Down 
1 Something goodforaBoy Scout? 2 Stage opening 3 Il___(Mussolini) 4 “Chocolat” actress 5 Civil rightsleader Medgar 
6 Results may dothis, incommercials 
7 Summer N.Y. hrs. 8 “___ Miz” 9 Makeup mishap 10Sculler's gear 11Trucker's record 12Vein contents 13One in the family, informally 
214:00 P.M.,traditionally 22People ofRwanda 24Margaret Meadinterviewees 25Eggnogsprinkling 26Rock climbers' spikes 27“The Simpsons”voicemanHank 28More visiblyashamed 29Brit's “Goodbye!” 
30G.I.'s org. 31Pontius ___ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

WILL SHORTZ 
Puzzle by David Hanson  
32Comic who quipped“Weather forecast for tonight: dark” 33Lack of experience 38Family namein Chicago politics 39Decorative plantholder  44Bar mitzvah toast 48Like a45°or60° angle 49Internet cafe connection 50Yemeni port 51Black-bordered newsitem 52___Major  53Barfly's binge 54Partner of baseball and apple pie 55Induction­refusing boxingchamp 56Hightailed it 57Key nearthe space bar 58Fizzle out  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 aminute;or, with acredit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions areavailable for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&Tusers: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, orvisit nytimes.com/mobilexword for moreinformation. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and morethan 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 ayear).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

PLEASANDVILLE 

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 


JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
EIDUG  

 
 
 
 
 

©2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
ROGAC  

 
 
 
 
 

BLEETE  

 
 
 
 
 
 

IMPERR  

 
 
 
 
 
 

“ 


” 
Ans: A 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: SCOUT ITCHY TINGLE CONCUR Yesterday’s 
Answer: When he read the novel about the invisible man, it was — OUT OF SIGHT 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

BIBLE
Jumble
o:
http://www
.tyndale.com/jumble/ 

 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Tuesday, February 8, 2011 page 16 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
All hands on deck 
Notre Dame to face PiratestonightatPurcell 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Impressing its coach and shaping up its defense may be the hardest tasks No. 8 Notre Dame faces tonight when it hosts Seton Hall in a Big East matchup, but Muffet McGraw knows her team has it in them. 
“I was disappointed with 
our 
defense in the South Florida game [on Saturday], so I hope that we can defend a little bit better,” the Irish coach said. “I think we need to come out with a little more aggressiveness. I think it’s in them to come out and just play a little bit harder.” 

The Irish (20 -4, 9-1 Big East) have won their last seven games since falling to No. 2 Connecticut, 79-76, on Jan. 8., and held four straight 

opponents 
to 50 points or 


SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 

Senior forward Becca Bruszewski passes to a teammate during the team’s victory over Syracuse on Feb. 1. see DEFENSE/page 14 Bruszewski has led a strong Irish effort in the low post during a recent winning streak against the Big East. 

ND WOMEN’S DIVING 
Sophomore diver faces top eight 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
Sophomore diver Jenny Chiang was unsure of what to expect as she traveled the USA Diving Winter Nationals competition Friday. Although the reigning Big East 3­meter champion has com ­piled an impressive résumé as a member of the Irish div­ing squad, this marked her first time competing in a USA diving event since coming to Notre Dame. 
“I was really nervous about going to the meet in general because I hadn’t gone to a 
U.S. meet in a while, so I wasn’t sure how I was going to place, if I was going to qualify, stuff like that, ” Chiang said. 
The meet was an elite affair — only athletes whose 
see NATIONALS/page 11 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish try to bounce back with road victory against familiar foe 
ITA tournament. They have a long season. every other time it has been ries came in doubles play. 
By ANDREW OWENS 

had a week to rest and pre-“Chris Sandeen is a great 4-3. The results between the “We didn’t play our best 
Sports Writer 

pare for the Irish. Notre strength and conditioning teams have been pretty even and we need to play our best Dame, meanwhile, will be coach,” Sachire said. “We do historically.” to beat Wisconsin,” Sachire 
It is inevitable that any ath-playing its third match in a good job preparing both The Irish have dropped two said. “We need to adjust to letic team will have to fight three days when it takes on our bodies and minds.” of the last three matches, going on the road and handle through adversity during the the Badgers. Wisconsin and Notre Dame with the 7-0 victory over the environment.” course of a long season. For “We ’re in good shape,” have not been strangers dur-Toledo the only win during The Irish will face the Irish, that time is now. Irish associate head coach ing the past several seasons. that span. The two losses Wisconsin at 5:00 p.m. this 
Following a weekend split Ryan Sachire said. “This isn’t Last year, the Badgers elimi-each came against elite talent evening before preparing for against Duke and Toledo, going to be too much for us.” nated the Irish in the first — No. 16 Illinois last week-a weekend doubleheader Notre Dame (3-2) will look to Sachire credits the strength round of the NCAA tourna-end and No. 14 Duke on against Marquette and bounce back tonight when it and conditioning program ment. Sunday. Michigan State. visits Wisconsin. that has been implemented “They ’re a good team, ” The Blue Devils topped the 
The Badgers (2-2) lost both for the success the Irish have Sachire said. “They beat us Irish 5-2 after falling behind Contact Andrew Owens at matches last weekend in an had traditionally throughout 4-2 last year, but almost early. Both Notre Dame victo-aowens2@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Freshman transitions to role 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Freshman Jennifer Kellner is no stranger to success. The New York native, who started playing tennis when she was six years old, was a 2010 All-American, a five-time member of the all-state team and a two-time state champion. Additionally, she was named MVP of her high school team four seasons in a row and was ranked nation­ally throughout high school. 
At Notre Dame, she’s a part of the No. 2 doubles team with partner Chrissie McGaffigan, and the pair have been consistently domi­nant in their matches this 
see IRISH/page 11 


SMC BASKETBALL 

Wade and Sadowski star in last home game 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 

On Senior Day, it was sen­iors Liz Wade and Grace Sadowski who did the starting 
— and the finishing — during Saint Mary’s 68-57 win over Trine on Saturday afternoon at Angela Athletic Facility. 
While Wade has started every game this season, Sadowski appeared in the starting line-up for the first time this year, and she made it count. Sadowski scored four of the game’s opening six points, helping the Belles (15­7, 8-5 MIAA) to an early 13-4 lead on the Thunder (7-14, 5­8). Both Sadwoski and Wade finished the game on the floor and recorded seven and five points, respectively. 
“Grace [Sadowski] got us going right away,” Belles coach Jenn Henley. “We got some good looks early but we just weren’t shooting very well in the first half. I give credit to Grace for getting us started right off the bat there.” 
Helped out by junior for­ward Jessica Centa’s eight points and an eight rebound advantage over Trine, the Belles held a 30-24 lead at the half. 
After Trine junior guard Danielle Senf, who scored a team-high 11 points, knocked 
see SENIORS/page 14 






