the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Applicants admitted to parents’ dream school 
Class of 2015 promises to be one of the best 

By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
Before they even set foot on campus, Notre Dame’s Class of 2015 has broken records. With an increase of over 2,000 appli­cations from last year, the Office of Undergraduate Admissions has put together its most accomplished group of students yet. 
The mean SAT score of admit­ted students is 1443, a nine point increase from last year. The median student ranks in the top two percent of their high school class. Two-thirds of those in the top 3 percent of their high school class were not admitted. 
Director of Admissions Bob Mundy said the strength of the admitted class’s profile is a result of the dramatic increase in applications. 
“In terms of overall academic quality, this group is stronger. It is a reflection on that increase in applications,” he said. “Generally what happens when you have a big increase, you … get a [stronger] distribution of students.” 
A total of 16,543 students applied to Notre Dame this year. 3,984 students were admitted and 1,853 were waitlisted. Last year’s final rate of admission was 29 percent. Before students move off the waitlist, this year’s rate stands at 24 percent. 
Associate Vice President for Undergraduate Enrollment Don Bishop said this year’s waitlist students are very strong, as their average SAT score is high­er than the enrolled Class of 2014. 
“The waitlist profile this year is equal to the class that enrolled in the fall,” he said. “Last year a significant number of [currently waitlisted students] would have been admitted.” 
Mundy said what makes the admitted class stand out is what its students have accomplished 
see CLASS/page 5 




Halls struggle to fit returning students 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
After living away from Notre Dame for four months, students planning to study abroad next fall may not be able to return to their current homes on campus for the Spring Semester. 
Problems arise when a resi­dence hall has a greater number of students going abroad in the fall than the spring. With a limit­ed number of rooms opening up in the spring, halls cannot guar­antee accommodations to all returning residents. 
Jeffery Shoup, director of Residence Life and Housing, said this problem is not uncommon. 
“Every spring there are a few dorms where there are more students returning from abroad than who are leaving,” he said. “[Next year], it is likely that a few halls will have this issue.” 

Pangborn is one dorm cur­rently attempting to resolve the issue. With 24 residents travel­ing abroad in the fall and only 14 departing in the spring, the hall will likely have to turn 10 students away. 
Lisa Edwards, a sophomore from Pangborn who will be studying in Dublin in the fall, said her dorm organized a ran­dom lottery with the 24 girls who will be gone first semester. The top 14 will be able to return to Pangborn, but the remaining 10 will have to find other hous­ing. 
Edwards received a number in 
see HOUSING/page 4 




ND ranked as a top choice by parents 
By ADAM LlORENS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s scenic cam­pus, prestigious academics and vast alumni network have placed it amongst par­ents’ top dream schools for their children, according to The Princeton Review’s “College Homes and Worries Survey.” Notre Dame took the ninth spot on the list, falling from number seven in last year’s survey. 
Director for Editorial Content David Soto said the strong response regarding Notre Dame among polled parents indicates the University is held in high esteem. 
“We have been doing this list since the 2002 -2003 school year, and Notre Dame has always been a usual sus­pect,” Soto said. “This year, 3966 parents responded to the survey question, so obvi­
ously they see the value Notre Dame brings to the table. 
The Princeton Review is a test preparation and admis­
see DREAM/page 4 



South Africa hosts ND 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Last summer, 20 students experienced cultural and eco­nomic hardship very different from their own experience at Notre Dame while on a six-week study abroad program in South Africa. 
“It was a typical study abroad program that’s intent was cultural immersion and exposure to poverty,” said Anre Venter, psychology pro­fessor and program coordina­tor. 
While in South Africa, the students lived in an apart­ment complex near the University of Cape Town where they took two classes. Outside the classroom, stu­dents had to travel and volun­
see AFRICA/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Humans battle zombies at ND page 3  Viewpoint page 6  Pandora : music your way page 8  Baseball defeats Central Michigan page 16 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 30, 2011 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WOULD YOU SURV VE A ZOMB E ATTACK?
THE OBSERVER 









P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
John Cameron Eric Prister Anna Boarini Matt Robison Megan Doyle Jack Hefferon 

Graphics Scene 
Lauren Kalinoski Mary Claire Photo O’Donnell Suzanna Pratt Viewpoint Ren Brauweiler 


OFFBEAT 
Bronx Zoo ’s missing cobra speaks out on Twitter 
NEW YORK — The Bronx Zoo may still be looking for its missing cobra, but a tongue-in­cheek Twitter user is charting its supposed progress. 
Someone using the han­dle BronxZoosCobra has been tweeting to a quickly growing number of fol­lowers — more than 85,000 by early Tuesday evening. In contrast with the user posing as the 20­inch, highly venomous snake, the Bronx Zoo had about 6,000 followers. 
“On top of the Empire State Building!” BronxZoosCobra posted. 

Anna Wanzek  Eric Wilde II  Maggie Armstrong  Nate Balmert  William Klein  Yiting Zheng  
sophomore  sophomore  freshman  sophomore  junior  sophomore  
McGlinn  Siegfried  Walsh  Dillon  Keenan  McGlinn  

“No, I wouldn’t.  “Not only would  “Of course I  “Of course I  “Clearly not.”  “Wait, zombies  
I don’t have  I survive, but I  would. I just  would! I’m Nate  are already  
any socks.”  would take  need a shovel.”  Balmert.”  dead. So how  
down more  are we  
zombies than  supposed to kill  
anybody else.”  them?”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

“All the people look like little mice down there. Delicious little mice.” 
Tweets included one about “Sex and the City”: “I’m totally a SSSamantha.” 
375-pound shark leaps into Texas fisherman’s boat 
FREEPORT, Texas – It’s the catch of a lifetime, but it’s not clear whether a Texas fisherman landed an 8-foot shark or it land­ed him. 
Jason Kresse, 29, of Freeport, and two crew members had been fish­ing for red snapper about 50 miles into the Gulf of Mexico and were dumping fish guts into the water about 3:45 a.m. Monday when they heard two big splashes in the distance. 
“All of a sudden some­thing hit the side of the boat,” Kresse told The Associated Press on Tuesday. “He ends up landing on the back of the boat.” 
The mako shark had apparently been in a rush to feed. It began thrash­ing around, and Kresse said he and his crew couldn’t get close to the 375-pound fish to toss it back in the water. It dam­aged the boat before dying several hours later. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
The International Sunrise Breakfast will begin at 7 a.m. today in the Fischer Community Center as a part of International Festival Week. 
Check your skin for sun damage at Melanoma Awareness Day beginning at 12 p.m. today. The event will be hosted by Howard Hall in the Sorin Room of LaFortune Student Center. 
A colloquium titled “Emergence of Order in Physical, Chemical, and Biological Systems” will be hosted by the Department of Physics today. The event will begin at 4 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
The lecture “Blowout! Sal Castro and the Chicano Struggle for Educational Justice” will be held in 210­214 McKenna Hall today at 5 
p.m. 
The Center for Latino Studies will sponsor the event. 

A peer-to-peer panel on job searching for international undergraduates will begin in 210 DeBartolo Hall at 5:30 

p.m. 
today. 


Speaker Colette Coyne will present in the Montgomery Auditorium of LaFortune Student Center tonight at 8 
p.m. The talk will be part of Howard Hall’s Melanoma Awareness Day. 
A red hot chili pepper con­test will be held at 9 p.m. tonight in the Fischer Community Center as a part of International Festival Week. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
CORRECTIONS 

In a March 29 article, “SMC appoints alumn as new VP for Mission,” the name of the College’s outgoing Vice President for Mission is Sr. Mary Louis Gude. Her name was misspelled in the original article. The 

48 34 HIGH 4847 4451 
Observer regrets this error. 

45 27 LOW 3033 3541 







Wednesday, March 30, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
NDhostshumansvs.zombies 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
A campus-wide battle between good and evil com­menced today when Notre Dame’s WVFI radio station began its game of “Humans versus Zombies.” 
Approximately 480 students signed up for the game, which will conclude Sunday, co-mod­erator Alex Muench said. 
“We conduct a lot of events like [Humans versus Zombies], mostly for the benefit of our DJs,” co-moderator Nicolle Walkling said. “This one we decided to extend to the entire student body, so we’re really excited about the scope of this event.” 
Muench said the moderators researched Humans versus Zombies online and created a Facebook event in order to advertise the game. 
“We sent [the invitation] out [to] maybe 300 people just to start, and by the end of the night we had over 2,500 peo­ple invited,” Muench said. 
While Humans versus Zombies is popular at colleges across the nation, Muench said this is the first time it will be played at Notre Dame. 
“Humans vs. Zombies has a really big college following,” he said. “It was made by some guys at Goucher College... They set us up with the [web­site] code and got it all put together for us, and we took it from there.” 
Co-moderator Willem Klein said any concerns about the game should be directed to WVFI. 

“It sounds ridiculous and fun and awesome,” sophomore Rachel Chisausky said. “You get to run around attacking people, like the ultimate form of creeping.” 
Muench said the game con­sists of a “human” team and a much smaller “zombie” team. Over the course of the five-day playing period, the zombie team members will attempt to turn the human team mem­bers into zombies by tagging them. 
Muench also said there will be missions with rewards in order to draw the humans into the playing area. According to the rulebook on the Humans versus Zombies at Notre Dame event website, http://nd.hvz­source.com, these missions will be “events that advance the game.” 
“At the end of the week, if everyone’s a zombie, the zom­bie team wins,” Muench said. “If there are humans left, the human team wins.” 
Muench said players must wear bandanas at all times to signify they are playing. Humans wear their bandanas on their arms and zombies wear them on their foreheads. Players cannot tag each other in campus buildings, and the whole game takes place out­doors. 
Humans can use Nerf Blasters to tag the zombies before the zombies tag them, Klein said. If a zombie is tagged, he is out of the game for fifteen minutes and cannot tag anyone. 
Freshman Olivia Schneider said she’s looking forward to the game. 
“I think it will be fun to have this ongoing competition between people all over cam­pus,” she said. “Plus, I get a Nerf [Blaster], and I think it will be fun to shoot it.” 
Junior Brian Conway said he was inspired to play Humans versus Zombies because he enjoyed playing the similar game Assassins for St. Edward’s Hall last year. 
“I had a blast playing Assassins, and I heard my friends at other campuses say­ing this game was a lot of fun, so I didn’t want to miss out,” he said. 
Muench said he originally expected about 150 people to sign up and was surprised when close to 500 players ulti­mately registered. 
“I think the most challenging thing [about organizing the game] was the sheer number of people that ended up sign­ing up,” he said. “I’ve had peo­ple emailing me questions and forgetting the password to the website.” 
Klein said he is excited to see the game play out. 
“Seeing a multi-day, on-cam­pus event isn’t something we really have [seen often],” Klein said. “I’m just looking forward to shooting some zombies.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 

Holocaust survivor lectures at College 
By MEGAN REECE 
News Writer 
One of the few remaining Holocaust survivors, Dr. Inge Auerbacher shared her struggles as a Jewish child in Nazi Germany in “Beyond the Yellow Star,” the keynote address at the sixth annual Diverse Students Leadership Conference, held Tuesday at Saint Mary’s College. 
Auerbacher said she was born into Europe at a time of great strife. 
“A period of time between 1938 and 1945, when the world was amuck,” Auerbacher said, “that period is called the Holocaust.” 
Auerbacher began her story with the extraordinary circum­stances of her birth. The doctor who delivered her wore a Nazi uniform. At the time of her birth, the doctor was still tending to Jewish patients. 
“I was brought into this world by a Nazi,” Auerbacher said. 
As a child, Aucherbacher said she was surrounded by Christian friends, and there was little attention drawn to her religion. She was shocked when the com­munity became hostile and her father was sent to a concentra­tion camp along with the other local men. 
While Jews were forced to wear yellow Stars of David, set­ting them apart for harassment and oppression, Auerbacher said she was able to give the symbol a different meaning. She said it offered a reminder that everyone is unique — a star. 
“You can turn that negative symbol into something positive,” Auerbacher said. 
A year in a concentration camp was a taxing experience for Auerbacher, especially as a child. During these times, Auerbacher said her faith played an impor­tant role in her survival, remind­ing her of what it means to be human. 
“They may take away my coun­try and my clothes,” Aucherbacher said, “but they can’t take away my faith.” 
After surviving the traumatic ordeal of the Holocaust, Auerbacher moved to America and became a successful chemist, eventually devoting her life to educating the world about the Holocaust and how to prevent history from repeating itself. 
Saint Mary’s junior Colleen Golden said Aucherbacher’s story had a profound effect on her. 
“Her story was the most pow­erful I’ve heard in a long time,” she said. “I will remember this experience forever.” 
Auerbacher’s said her experi­ence should remind people about the dangers of hate and division among people. 
“There is only one race — human,” she said. 
Contact Megan Reece at mreece01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 30, 2011 
Africa 
continued from page 1 
teer. 
Senior Joanna Stabile said the most interesting part of the program was gaining perspective on how the vari­ous townships coped with the lasting effects of apartheid, especially poverty. 
“During apartheid, they [government officials] forcibly removed anyone of color or black from the cities and into the townships,” she said. “Even though apartheid is over, the black people are still living in extreme poverty in the townships. 
Stabile said while visiting the townships, she and the other students would typical­ly be the only Caucasian peo­ple in the area. She said chil­dren often expressed shock at the sight of the students. 
Venter said exposing the Notre Dame students to poverty was a central compo­nent of the program. 
“By taking the students to the townships like Soweto, one of the first black town­ships, they got insights into how the local African people lived and live,” Veter said. 
During their time in the African nation, students went on safari in Kruger National Park and visited an orphan­age in the Mpumalanga Township. Venter said the orphanage was makeshift, operated by a local woman out of her house. 
Senior Justin Siler said there were between 20 and 25 children living in the 
orphanage ranging from infants and toddlers to teenagers. Some of the chil­dren were born infected with AIDS and had been aban­doned at birth. 
Visiting the orphanage and going on safari were not the only chances the students had to experience South Africa outside the classroom. Students had the opportunity to live with a local family for a weekend, and Siler attend­ed the first game of the FIFA World Cup. 

“Each of us, either by our­selves or with another per­son, were able to spend a weekend with a family in a township,” Siler said. “It was a really cool experience.” 
When the students were not in school or travelling throughout the country, they did service work in the town­ships. As the World Cup resulted in some school can­cellations, NGO’s and govern­ment agencies set up alterna­tive programs. Stabile volun­teered at one such program. 
Stabile said some of the children in the program expressed concern about get­ting home at an early hour as Nigerian men had been kid­napping girls to be sold into slavery. 
“It was crazy hearing about the human trafficking,” Stabile said. “ I never imag­ined I would sit with an 11 year old and listen to her talk about how she lost her friend.” 
Stabile said the extreme disparity between the lives of South African youth and her own made a lasting impres­sion. 
“I had to be confronted with all this poverty and not really be able to do anything about it,” she said. “It changed me for the better and I gained something, but 
[I] wasn’t really able to give something back, and that was a challenge.” 
Upon returning to Notre Dame, Stabile and some of the other students began try­ing to help the locals in a way they could not while in South Africa. Venter’s daugh­ter, a student at Trinity High School, has collected around 500 pounds of clothes, shoes and other goods. Stabile and her peers are collecting funds to ship the goods back to South Africa. 

Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

Although Sister Denise general­ly tries to resolve rooming for next spring this year, she said continued from page 1 many rectors wait until fall since 
students’ plans often change. the bottom ten. “Just because you don’t have 
“It’s understandable that it all room now doesn’t mean it’s not happens, but it’s just a bummer,” going to open up in the fall she said. “Dorm life is such an either,” she said. “And that hap-important part here, and now pens quite often — that right now there’s no way to possibly get it looks like there’s not going to be back into your own dorm.” enough rooms and come the fall 
Betsy McGovern, another soph-there are enough rooms.” omore in the bottom 10 of the lot-McGovern said she is frustrated tery, said Pangborn’s rector, Sister that she may not know her living Mary, indicated she will try to situation until she returns from take the girls’ wishes into consid-Dublin in the spring. However, eration. she is planning on spending a 
“Because of its proximity to great deal of her time in Pangborn, I would Pangborn regard-prefer to live in less of where she McGlinn,” “Just because you lives. McGovern said. don’t have a room “I love my dorm “My rectress will and the people in 
Housing 

now doesn’t mean 
help me and the it so much,” she other nine girls fig-that it’s not going to said. “I don’t want ure out a rooming open up in the fall to drift away from situation that best the connection I
either.” 
suits us.” have to my dorm 
If McGovern or now.” the other nine Sister Denise Lyon Kat Wilson, Pangborn students Badin rector another Pangborn 
wish to remain on South Quad, Badin Hall could be a potential home for the spring. 
Sr. Denise Lyon, rector of Badin, said only three girls from her hall will be going abroad in the fall, compared with 12 or 14 leaving in the spring. These numbers are similar to those of past years. 
“It’s been a coincidence that many more go in the spring than go in the fall, so Badin does indeed take in people who can’t get back into their own hall,” she said. 
Dream 
continued from page 1 
sions advisory company pri­marily serving rising under­graduate and graduate col­lege students. The Review based its rankings on responses solicited from par­ents of high school and col­lege age students, and did not consider statistics like acceptance rates or costs of attendance. 
Soto said high-profile rank­ings draw greater attention to universities and tend to increase the number of appli­cations received. 
“We have long been fans of Notre Dame, as they consis­tently appear at the top of many of our academic and social lists,” Soto said. “Students and parents realize this, and in turn many of them apply to Notre Dame.” 
Freshman Kevin Strickland’s brother Danny is a high school junior currently looking at colleges. Strickland said he understood why Notre Dame appeals to his parents. 
“My parents want him to go to Notre Dame because after sophomore who 
will not be able to return to her dorm after a semes­ter in Fremantle, Australia, said she understands housing plan­ning can be complex, especially since Pangborn is one of the smaller female dorms. 
“I honestly have no idea where I am going to be living in the fall,” Wilson said. “But as long as I am guaranteed to live on campus, I’ll be happy.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 
my dad [graduated in 1985], he really enjoyed the commu­nity aspect of the campus and felt that was something important to have in a school,” Strickland said. “Notre Dame offers an aca­demic level that would chal­lenge him and leave him with many opportunities after graduation.” 
For senior and South Bend resident Robert Hayes Schafer, his father’s position as a professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering made attending Notre Dame a practical deci­sion. 
“Having grown up near Notre Dame for my entire life, I have always been a diehard Notre Dame fan,” Shafer said. “However, it would not have made finan­cial sense to come here if my father was not working here. I had some generous scholar­ship offers from other col­leges that were of similar quality, but with the tuition benefits that come with my father’s job, I was able to attend my dream school.” 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 




Wednesday March 30, 2011 The Observer  NEWS page 5 
JAPAN 

Radiation spikes near plant 
Associated Press 
TOKYO — Seawater outside the hobbled nuclear power plant in northeastern Japan was found to contain 3,335 times the usual amount of radioactive iodine — the high­est rate yet and a sign that more contaminated water was making its way into the ocean, officials said Wednesday. 
The amount of iodine-131 found offshore some 300 yards south of the coastal Fukushima Dai-ichi power plant does not pose an imme­diate threat to human health but was a “concern,” said Hidehiko Nishiyama, a Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency official. He said there was no fishing in the area. 
“We will nail down the cause, and will do our utmost to prevent it from rising fur­ther,” Nishiyama said. 
The power plant has been leaking radiation since a March 11 tsunami slammed into Japan’s northeast, knock­ing out power and backup systems crucial to keeping temperatures down inside the plant’s reactors. 
Residents within 12 miles have been evacuated, while those up to 19 miles have been urged to leave as radia­tion has made its way into vegetables, raw milk and water. Last week, tap water as far away as Tokyo, 140 miles to the south, contained levels of cancer-causing iodine-131 considered unsafe for infants. 
The latest findings — based on a sample taken Tuesday — highlight the urgency of stabi­lizing the crippled power plant. The mission has been fraught with setbacks, as emergency crews have dealt with fires, explosions and radiation scares in the frantic bid to prevent a complete meltdown. 
The government acknowl­edged Tuesday that its safe­guards had been insufficient to protect the facility against the magnitude-9.0 earthquake and tsunami. 
“Our preparedness was not sufficient,” Chief Cabinet sec­retary Yukio Edano told reporters Tuesday. “When the current crisis is over, we must examine the accident closely and thoroughly review” the safety standards. 
An Associated Press investi­gation found that Tokyo Electric Power Co. officials had dismissed scientific evi­dence and geological history that indicated that a massive earthquake — and subse­quent tsunami — was far more likely than they believed. 
That left the complex with nowhere near enough protec­tion against the tsunami. 
Highly toxic plutonium was the latest contaminant found seeping into the soil outside the plant, TEPCO said. Safety officials said the amounts did not pose a risk to humans, but the finding supports suspi­cions that dangerously radioactive water is leaking from damaged nuclear fuel rods. 
“The situation is very grave,” Edano said. 
Workers succeeded last week in reconnecting some parts of the plant to the power grid. But as they pumped in water to cool the reactors and nuclear fuel, they discovered numerous pools of radioactive water, including in the basements of several buildings and in trenches outside. 

The contaminated water has been emitting many times the amount of radiation that the government considers safe for workers. It must be pumped out before electricity can be restored and the regular cool­ing systems powered up. 
That has left officials strug­gling with two crucial but contradictory efforts: pump­ing in water to keep the fuel rods cool and pumping out contaminated water. 
Officials are hoping tanks at the complex will be able to hold the water, or that new tanks can be trucked in. Officials from the Nuclear Safety Commission said other possibilities include digging a storage pit for the contami­nated water, recycling it back into the reactors or even pumping it to an offshore tanker. 
On Tuesday, three workers trying to connect a pump out­side the Unit 3 reactor were splashed by water that gushed from a pipe. Though they wore suits meant to be waterproof and protect against high levels of radia­tion, nuclear safety official Hidehiko Nishiyama said the men were soaked to their underwear. 
They quickly washed it off and were not injured, officials said. 
Last week, two workers were hospitalized with burns after they waded into highly radioactive water that reached their knees while wearing ankle-high protective boots. They have been treated and released. 
Nikkei, Japan’s top business newspaper, called it “outra­geous” that TEPCO had been slow to release information about trenches outside the reactors filled with contami­nated water, one just a few inches from overflowing. 
TEPCO’s shares plunged nearly 20 percent on Tuesday. Its share price has nose-dived a staggering 73 percent since the tsunami. 
Prime Minister Naoto Kan reiterated in a speech to par­liament that Japan was grap­pling with its worst problems since World War II. 
Class 
continued from page 1 
outside of the classroom, in addition to scholastic achieve­ments. 
“I think while maintaining and even advancing a class of stu­dents who are good matches for Notre Dame, we’ve seen the academic profile improve,” he said. “All those things that seem to be hallmarks of this place. A high degree of engagement out­side of the classroom is still present, while we are able to improve the academic profile.” 
The array of academic and personal achievements compris­es the variety of factors the office looks to in admissions decisions, Bishop said. 
“We tried to be as fair as we could for all the groups that are interested in coming to Notre Dame,” he said. “You have obvi­ously the most qualified stu­dents, the students beyond the numbers with incredible leader­ship and service [with] special talents like sports or music. We look at academic abilities in spe­cific areas.” 
Bishop said next year’s class is actually intended to be slightly smaller than normal, creating a challenge for admissions. 
“This big increase in applica­tions and somewhat smaller class exacerbates that issue of selectivity,” he said. 
Because of the top-flight aca­demic profile of applicants, Bishop said the admissions office had to look beyond the statistics in making final deci­sions. 
“With the numbers getting so high, the other deliberations that went on were about fit, atti­tude, personality…it was sober­ing to see how many kids adore this place and wanted to come,” he said. “It is tough to turn down so many kids who are great.” 
Mundy said the office usually anticipates the early action admissions process being more selective than the regular deci­sion process. However, he said the increase in this year’s appli­cant pool was a game-changer. 
“What we had to do in regular action, we had to say to our staff we need to behave in regular action like we behave in early action because we know we are going to be up by 2,000 applica­tions,” Mundy said. 
A quarter of students enrolling for next year’s fresh­man class are expected to be legacy students, or children of alumni, Mundy said. This is one attribute of admissions that sets Notre Dame apart from other elite schools, he said. 
“I would venture to say there aren’t any institutions in this selectivity range that would be able to say that,” Mundy said. “I think you would see numbers in the low teens at best with our peers.” 
Mundy said additional factors of tradition at Notre Dame fac­tor into admissions decisions. 
“Managing the male-female percentage — for many of our peers that is not an issue.... They can adjust. Obviously here, we need to be a little more sen­sitive to that,” he said. “We have some additional challenges here because of some of the tradi­tional differences Notre Dame offers.” 
While the increase in applica­tions has presented a challenge for the Office of Undergraduate Admissions this year, Mundy said ultimately the process has been a rewarding one. 
“In my 28 years [in admis­sions,] this year has been unlike any other,” he said. “It is pretty exciting to feel as though we are maintaining the very special character of Notre Dame while advancing some other things.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


More than 11,000 bodies have been recovered, but offi­cials say the final death toll is expected to exceed 18,000. Hundreds of thousands of people remain homeless, their homes and livelihoods destroyed. Damage could amount to $310 billion — the most expensive natural disas­ter on record. 
“This quake, tsunami and the nuclear accident are the biggest crises for Japan” in decades, Kan said Tuesday. He said the crises remained unpredictable, but added: “We will continue to handle it in a state of maximum alert.” 
Kan has faced increasing criticism from opposition law­makers over the handling of a nuclear disaster stretching into a third week. 


The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Wednesday, March 30, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Major League boost 
The wait is almost over. 

Cue Spring, cue the lights, cue the organ and someone bring down the unscripted script, because Opening Day begins scene one. 
Here begins the only day that all teams have the same record and the same reason­able goal of win­ning in October. Here, the Orioles share first place with the Andrew Gastelum Yankees, while not even a billy-Sports goat can sour the Production zest of Editor Wrigleyville. 

Baseball and only baseball can begin in Spring, where hope bounds aplenty and the shadows of winter turn to shadows that separate the diamond into pitcher vs. batter. A vivid, fluid poetry of the sound of a bat rhymed to a slap of the glove dominates the air with the enthusiasm and roar of the crowd flowing from fan to fan as a pollen that spreads Spring Fever throughout. 
But in a time when the American sports fan swarms to the real sports, baseball still runs with a carefree ubiq­uity. Where we find America’s most popular sport in a desperate state of affairs with a season in serious doubt, we see baseball as the old grandfather uttering, “Been there, done that, won’t happen again.” 
What the general public calls boring to watch and a game that drags on far too long, fans call heaven, as atten­dance figures have continued to climb. According to MLB.com, 2010 marked the seventh straight season that base­ball clubs eclipsed the 73 million mark in attendance, seventh-best in baseball history. The previous season drew even more fans for sixth-best in MLB history, all while America struggled through the worst economic crisis that our genera­tion has seen. 
Not to mention, five years ago the sport slogged through a scandal that rocked the sport from Bonds and Sosa down into the minors. 
This new season will welcome a new era across the league without the aura of Torre, Cox and Pinella, yet with the same tradition that remains from the legends of Lasorda, Sparky and Stengel. 
Yet concerns arise over the ascension of free agency and the spending of franchises across the league as killing the integrity of the game. Just last year the Yankees spent over $200 million on its roster alone. The American League champion Texas Rangers spent a smidgen over $55 million. 
In fact, 14 of the 20 teams that played in the past ten World Series were not in the top five in team salary that season, with the highlight coming in 2008 from the hefty $43 million payroll of the Tampa Bay Rays — enough to earn them 29th highest. To put that in per­spective, the combined salary of all-stars Derek Jeter and Alex Rodriguez in 2008 was $49 million, all for a team that missed the playoffs that year. 
Baseball is back, a return more cer­tain than the sun’s rising. 
Cue the smooth green grass, the majestic blue sky and the cool breeze, because Spring is here. And with Spring comes baseball. 
One ... more ... day. 

The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

The strength of words 
Notre Dame student: Every time a Notre Dame guy “hooks up” with a Saint Mary’s student a tree is planted along The Avenue. 
Saint Mary’s student: Every time a Notre Dame guy gets with a Notre Dame girl a golden dome is built. 
These jokes may be a little humor­ous, and sure we all get a chuckle from them, but what impact can these jokes have on the women of this com­munity? Not only are the women of this community subjected to demean­ing classifications, such as “sluts” or “ugly,” but the frequency of sexist jokes I hear particularly on this cam­pus is astounding. It’s the 21st centu­ry, right? 
Go ahead and try to shrug off these jokes as meaningless, but consider this: Words reflect thoughts, and thoughts and words are represented by actions. Considering the amount of verbal abuse our female students are subjected to, I do not find it surprising that ND is ranked second in the num­ber of reported sexual assaults on campus in Indiana, only behind IU of Bloomington. 
Still reluctant to believe the poten­tial impact these jokes may have on our students’ thoughts and actions? Just this past weekend my friends were subjected to harassment through words at Finny’s. Unprovoked, a par­ticular ND student stated multiple times to my friend that sexually “she wanted him.” Does he think she “wants him” and he is entitled to make those inappropriate comments merely because she is a student of Saint Mary’s, and we have a construed reputation of being sexually promiscu­ous? 

This same student later harassed me, angrily shouting in my face some random nonsense, and proceeded to menacingly grin down at me, telling me how he sexually “split open” some other girl. As he towered over my petite body of 100 pounds, he refused to step away from me, despite my requests that he step back, until my male friends stepped in. 
I just wanted to go out Saturday night and have a good time with my friends. Is that too much to ask? 
Do you still think I’m making a big deal out of the sexist and demeaning jokes that our women are exposed? How about this example? Another stu­dent of our college community also possesses misconceptions of Saint Mary’s women. He has once referred to Saint Mary’s College as “a factory to get girls.” 
His beliefs and words certainly have been shown in his actions. I lost my virginity through rape by this student. He raped me twice within an eight-hour period I was at his apartment, and he attempted to rape me on two other occasions in the following month. 
With this information, I am asking that every student, male or female, take some time to consider the effect name-calling can have on our female students. Not only does it belittle and degrade our community’s large num­ber of talented, female students, but it also may be one of the many factors that contribute to sexual assault. 
My advice for fellow students is to stop and think before you laugh at one of these jokes. Saint Mary’s women, next time someone puts you down, be the bigger person. Do not put down your sisters across the street. Notre Dame women, please do not belittle us by calling us “dumb” or “sluts.” 
We should be standing together. Our women are being hurt enough through sexual assault. We should not be put­ting each other down when such a large number of our women are also being victimized sexually. 
As for Notre Dame and Holy Cross men, please listen to the same advice I offer the women. Although we may laugh at the jokes, they hurt, and it especially hurts the women who have suffered more severe levels of abuse during our college career. 
Margaret Otten 
senior off campus Mar. 29 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


POLL OF THE WEEK 
Who do you think is going to winthe men’s NCAA tournament? 
Kentucky Connecticut VCU Butler 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“If all the world’s a stage, I want to operate the trap door.” 
Paul BeattyAmerican author 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, March 30, 2011 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

God Debate continued 
I would like to add my own comments to Joseph Nawrocki’s Letter to the Editor “The God Debate” (March 25). I was again disap­pointed this year when I saw the choice for speakers, although I cannot say I was sur­prised. There is an ever increasing liberalism within this country, this University and under­graduate student populations in general. By liberalism I do not mean the American idea of liberal and conservative — they too are players in a history of liberalism. 
I borrow from Blessed John Henry Newman’s definition. He says, “By liberalism I mean false liberty of thought, or the exercise of thought upon matters, in which, from the constitution of the human mind, thought cannot be brought to any successful issue, and therefore is out of place. Among such matters are first principles of any kind.” Neither Newman nor I am argu­ing here that the question of God is one that human reason cannot come to on its own. Rather, there is a history before now, before Newman, in which philosophy and theology began to reject first principles that cannot be known through reason, but just clearly are. A simple first principle is the theory of non-con­tradiction: Something cannot be and not be in the same respect. I am sure everyone knows Descartes’ rejection of the existence of his hand. Again I repeat the question of God is not one of first principles. However, one must start with first principles to ask the question sincere­ly. 
The framework of liberalism rejects these basic first principles and tries to formulate questions anyways. False dichotomies are set up left and right. The questions are inter­minable. In regard to the God Debate this is obvious. It is no surprise that one speaker will argue for the empirical knowledge of science, while the other (an analytical philosopher) argues for faith without science, i.e. creation­ism. Both of these claims completely ignore the rich philosophical traditions of Plato and Aristotle that works from first principles. Both of these claims ignore the Catholic tradition of fides et ratio. 
It is, to put it bluntly, idiotic to bring in these two seemingly opposing views and ask a mainly Catholic undergraduate audience to come and make a choice as to whether God exists or not when there is a rich intellectual tradition philo­sophically and theologically available to us that is completely void of this false dichotomy and actually able to give real answers to real ques­tion. I fear a lack of sincerity on the part of those who are willing to completely disregard the history behind these issues. Everyone likes a cage match without a clear winner, but let us not trick ourselves into thinking an honest intellectual discussion is taking place. 
Kelly Mason 
senior off campus Mar. 28 

No lights on the Dome 
Anyone who crossed God Quad after dark this weekend should have noticed an odd peculiarity: There were no lights on the golden dome. The Office of Sustainability announced that the lights on the golden dome and the Word of Life mural on the Library would be turned off over the weekend as a sign of support for International Earth Hour. As Executive Vice President John Affleck Graves explained, the university was supporting the ini­tiative “by keeping the lights off on these symbols of our campus for a span of 60 hours instead of 60 minutes.” While I’m sure it was well intentioned, the decision to turn the lights off on the images of Our Lady and Christ was poor and disquieting. 
The image of Our Lady on the dome of Main Building is not merely a symbol of the University of Notre Dame, but is a sacred image of the Blessed Virgin Mary. The statue is a sign of Our Lady herself. Given that the nature of a sign is to point towards the thing signified, an image of Our Lady should be given honor and reverence — not for its own sake, but for the sake of Mary who is signified. Likewise, an insult to the sign is an insult to the thing it signifies. Turning the lights off the images of Our Lady and Christ disrespect Christ and Our Lady because we are not giving the signs that represent them due honor and rever­ence. 
We would not turn the lights off Stonehenge because it is a symbol and memorial of the sacri­fice made by great citizens of our nation. Further, we would not turn the lights off an American flag, given that the flag is a sign of the United States. Turning the lights off would disrespect our nation and the people who fought for it. 
Dr. Graves’ statement and the University’s deci­sion were poor but telling signs of the administra­tion’s ambivalent attitude toward a true Catholic identity. We have put the lights out on enough of our Catholic tradition already. God forbid that we turn the lights out on Our Lady as well. 
Andrew Lynch 
sophomore Morrissey Mar. 29 

Stepan not fit for acts 
I write this letter in regards to the Spring Concert. I congratulate SUB on pulling an amaz­ing lineup this year, completing an excellent three year run. A few years ago it was Cartel and Citizen Cope; last year it was The Roots; this year has Chiddy Bang and OAR. The board has really done a great job providing talented, relevant acts for our students. 
Now stop making them play in Stepan Center. 
This leaky-roof building is barely qualified to be hosting the ACCT 20200 Managerial Accounting final, much less these highly touted and estab­lished musical acts. 
As an amateur musician who played on the Notre Dame and South Bend scene throughout my time at Notre Dame, I played at the Stepan Center a few times. It is an acoustical nightmare. Students might not notice this, but, I assure you, the artists will. I specifically remember Citizen Cope complaining — scratch that, Citizen Cope had no idea where he was — but I specifically remember Cartel voicing complaints about the venue. We need to stop allowing big name acts like this to be exposed to such a horrible music venue. Continuing to do so would mean putting our reputation amongst the music community at risk. 
I write this letter (for the third consecutive year) asking that SUB please entertain the idea of coming up with a new venue. The B1 Block Party is a huge step in the right direction. Let’s contin­ue with that outdoor festival type theme. Consider a concert at the east end of South Quad. This will maximize student attendance and pro­vide an experience far more enjoyable and mem­orable for the students and artists alike. 
Honestly, I know SUB is paying these bands good money and they will play wherever they are told to. But let’s not settle for that. I challenge SUB to take on a new venue that will entice stu­dents to come out and cause artists to want to come back. 
Something to think about for next year. Until then, all I can do is encourage students to go out and enjoy Chiddy Bang and OAR — two artists I have seen a few times and will be sure to bring Stepan Center down (hopefully not literally.) 
Pat McKillen 
alumnus 
Class of 2010 
Mar. 28 

‘Jus in bello’ or just in bad taste? 
I believe that members of the ROTC program sincerely pray for peace, as no one suffers the burdens of war more than our nation’s military and their families. For this rea­son, it is troubling to see the invitation to Colman McCarthy to serve as the keynote speaker for this year’s 2011 Student Peace Conference (April 1-2) put on by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. The Kroc Institute’s website describes Mr. McCarthy as a “renowned journalist, teacher and peace activist” who has had editori­als printed in a number of prominent newspapers. In one such editorial, Mr. McCarthy directly mentioned the ROTC program at Notre Dame. Disputing Father Hesburgh’s view that the program serves as a way to “Christianize the mili­tary,” Mr. McCarthy asked if there was a “Christian method of slaughtering people in combat, or a Christian way of firebombing cities, or a way to kill civilians in the name of Jesus.” While it may come as a surprise to Mr. McCarthy, the American military does not seek to engage in any of these activities. Rather, it serves to impartially defend the nation by carrying out the just orders of our democratically elected leaders. 
Mr. McCarthy continued his criticism, drawing a shameful and absurd parallel between the U.S. Army and the Taliban. He concluded by labeling its academics as “laugh­ably weak,” comprised of “softie courses” and its members as poor pawns that signed on because “they were mainly from families that couldn’t afford ever-rising college tabs.” 
Mr. McCarthy, I firmly believe that the cadets and mid­shipmen here joined ROTC because of their love for the nation, choosing to dedicate their lives to defending the values that make it great and making peace possible. It would be unfortunate for you to forget that all of these val­ues, including the freedom to criticize the military without fear of retribution, were bought with the blood of America’s men and women in uniform. Perhaps on your visit you can take a walk to Stonehenge, a monument to the Notre Dame graduates killed serving in foreign wars, as a reminder of the price of this freedom. 
Jay Rowley 
senior off campus Mar. 29 

One-day ‘sacrifice’ 
I am shocked by the selfishness expressed in Mr. Baker’s Letter to the Editor “Where’s the Meat?” (March 28). As a vegetarian, I find it appalling that someone would be so clearly opposed to abstaining from meat for one mere day! Plenty of people — myself included — refrain from meat every single day of the year as an act of protest against the cruelty implicit in the practices of the American meat industry. There are over 925 million people who do not get enough to eat in this world. One acre of land used to grow cow-feed produces around 165 pounds of edible cow flesh when that same plot of land could grow 20,000 pounds of potatoes. On top of that, the standard treatment of animals in the American food system induces needless amounts of suffering to God’s own creatures. No one should complain about one day without meat. Especially not someone with the education and opportunity that Mr. Baker has as a stu­dent of Notre Dame. 
Courtenay Devlin 
sophomore Pangborn Hall Mar. 28 


Be creative. Send a letter to the editor. 
The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Wednesday, March 30, 2011 

I was frustrated by a deep-seated conflict when approaching this week’s Tantrum. I began the day by sending out the alert, “looking for a good tantrum, open to all suggestions.” I posted this alert on Twitter, the hub of friends/Joss Whedon junkies/natural grocer advertis­ers who all deign to follow me on the new-media mammoth site that I have, reluctantly, hooked up to my phone. 
By late afternoon I had received two suggestions: “Ark Music Factory = The Disney Channel. So much pain.” This tweet included a link to a video called “Ordinary Pop Star” by eleven-year-old CJ Fam, produced by the super-slick production team that brought us Rebecca Black’s “Friday.” This tweet was followed in quick succession by, “Whatever it is, don’t let it be Rebecca Black. Plz.” Well, unfortunately for tweeter number two, it seems that all tweets lead to one topic. Why we love Rebecca Black, and why we hate Rebecca Black. 
Let’s set the stage: cute, bouncy thirteen-year-old who literally looks like she could be hanging out with your lit­tle sister lands in the middle of a very well-produced music video with auto-tune sharp enough to make Rihanna weep. Millions downloaded her single. She goes on Jay Leno, sits next to Bradley Cooper (without ever acknowledging she’s sitting next to smolder incarnate) and answers questions as if she were talking to her dad’s college roommate. Meanwhile, everyone who spent the weekend partying, partying (yeah!) remains acutely aware that in the normal wheel of music pro­duction and distribution, something is not right. 
Here’s the hitch: Rebecca Black’s music video was produced by a company called the Ark Music Factory. Based in LA, Ark is run by two guys destined to live out the music producer’s dream, even if that means making videos for children of loaded Los Angelinos who are will-ing to back their children’s’ pop fantasies. They seek to reach out to “young artists” by offering them a venue to pursue music that is “clean and safe.” After multiple clicks on Google and YouTube, I found an interview — very staged — with Patrice Wilson, CEO and founder of Ark Music Factory. 


“What we do, and the amount of work we put into artists…is very amazing, because we provide that plat­form. We give that music video, we give that song., we give that photo shoot, that image [a} consultant. How much do we charge? Number one, we don’t charge all artists. If we are to charge an artist, it can range from $2000 to $4000. Is that a bad deal?...You even get lunch!” 
Thus speaks Wilson. 
The system is clear: parents pony up the cash, and their chil­dren get to play rock star for a day. Which is great. Ark Music is happy. The parents are happy. And the kids get to dress up, perform at an Ark Music showcase, get interviewed on the “red carpet” and send a link of their professional looking music video to all their friends. Stasis remains. 

But what happens when the parental-pleasing fodder that we roll our eyes at actually catches on at Finny’s? We like to think that extravagant birthday presents such as an Ark Music video remain contained to the little world in which they were produced, but Rebecca Black’s “Friday” proved what many of us refuse to believe — pop music really is just crap that’s fun to sing along to! NOOO! 
“Listen to a song on the radio. Try to compare it with the song ‘Friday,’” Wilson says. “A pop tune is supposed 
WANT D: 
to be really, really catchy. Now, regardless of the lyrics, and how easy the lyrics might be, some part... can stick in your head, and you get out of the shower, and you’re singing, ‘Friday, Friday...’ because it’s stuck in your head. That’s the whole purpose, that’s the goal of creat­ing tunes and songs like that.” 
Here we have it folks. Jason Derulo may think he’s trying to make art, to be somebody and fight for some­thing greater, but really all he needs to do is write some­thing that goes down in your head — and stays there. 
“There is no difference whatsoever to the songs you 
hear on the radio today and the songs that we make. To get that radio sound, 
we have to go ahead and create that auto-tune to balance it out.” 
And with that, Wilson might as well have said checkmate. 

How can we com­pare “Friday” to “Only Girl (in the World)” and not come out scratching our heads? Ark Music Factory has called out the system by playing right into 
it. So Black has to get a bowl and cereal instead of being the only one who knows your heart. Does that make it any less fun to sing along to and make fun of? Ark Music Factory is utterly transparent in it is purposes. Wilson literally tells us how much it costs to get to be a pop star for a day. Is Rihanna any more “legit” because we don’t know how her songs are writ­ten? The next stage is, of course, Lady Gaga’s place in this debate, but I’ll leave that for another week. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 

C L BRITY LOOK-A-LIK S 
FANCY YOURSELF OR YOUR FRIEND THE SPITTING IMAGE OF THE LIKES OF SANDRA BULLOCK OR JAKE GYLLENHAAL? EMAIL A PICTURE WITH CONTACT INFO TO OBSERVER.SCENE.EDITOR@GMAIL.COM ALL CELEBRITIES ACCEPTED. PAST, PRESENT, A-LIST, D-LIST. EVEN REBECCA BLACK. 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, March 30, 2011 page 9 
By ANNALEE RICE 
Scene Writer 

Pa ndor a: no lo nger kn ow n in po pular cult ur e as th at impulsive Greek chi ck. No, Pandora has commanded th e In ter net sig na ls of la pt ops and sma rt phon es acr oss campus, save for th at weird dead zone between th e lib rary and St arbucks. As an Internet radi o app and websit e, Pandora enabl es li steners to create a stati on based on an arti st, th en streams music from simil ar arti st s th rou gh th at sta tion . An d alth ough Pando ra ma y not have encountered ex actly wh at she wanted in her box, your Pandora Radi o will be fi ne-tuned to your ta ste s. No ran dom Pitchfor k-endor sed arti st will pop up on you r belov ed Brit ney sta ti on. Bu t you will get a heav y dose of th e Princ es s of Pop as we ll as so me qu ali ­ty Chris tin a and Rihan na. So the nex t tim e Stev e Jobs and iTu nes lets you down, or you’re on th e verge of tea rs beca use usin g Li mew ire can now land you a law ­suit , ch eck out Pa ndor a. 
Contact AnnaLee Rice at arice3@nd.edu 

LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 30, 2011 
PGA 

Despite struggles, Woods remains center of attention 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. — So many people surrounded the first tee that it was hard to see who was playing. The gallery stretched down the entire length of the 461-yard opening hole and wrapped around the back of the green on a sun-baked Sunday at Bay Hill. 
Now on the tee, Tiger Woods. 
He was in a tie for 29th. He was 10 shots out of the lead, no serious threat to win. 
About four hours later, the final group of Martin Laird and Spencer Levin approached the fifth green with under 100 fans tagging along. 
This is nothing new. 
A few weeks earlier at Doral, the PGA Tour decided to group players based on their world ranking. Someone estimated the gallery at 85 people for the “Big Three” of Martin Kaymer, Lee Westwood and Luke Donald. On the other side of the course, there were too many fans to count in the group of players ranked 4-5-6 — Graeme McDowell, Woods and Phil Mickelson. 
During the FedEx Cup playoffs last year at Ridgewood, thou­sands of fans crammed behind the ropes on both sides of the fairway at Ridgewood Country Club to watch Woods, who was in 20th place and going nowhere. 
One reporter was thinking too hard as he searched for the meaning of it all. 
“I get it ... but I don’t get it,” he said as his eyes scanned the size of the crowd. “The guy is in 20th place. Why wouldn’t you go watch someone who is actually playing well?” 
The answer: They were there to see Babe Ruth. 
Even at his worst — and there are plenty of numbers and statis­tics to back that up — Woods remains the most compelling fig­ure in golf. It was like that at Bay Hill. It will be that way next week at the Masters, even as Mickelson tries to join him with four green jackets, or Kaymer goes after a second straight major, or Westwood tries to regain the No. 1 ranking, this time without having to explain why. 
Never mind that Woods is meandering through mediocrity at the moment. 
Wednesday will mark 500 days since his last victory at the Australian Masters, his last tour­nament before the car crash out­side his Florida home and the revelations of affairs that fol­lowed and broke up his mar­riage. 
He has played 20 tournaments since, not including the Ryder Cup. In his only chance to win, at the Chevron World Challenge, Woods coughed up a four-shot lead in the final round to McDowell, the first time in his career that Woods was leading by more than three shots going into the last day and didn’t win. 
Woods has earned $265,465 in five tournaments this year. He earned more in his first five tour­naments as a 20-year-old pro. 
In 16 starts on the PGA Tour since he returned last year, Woods has three top 10s. 
One longtime British golf jour­nalist might have summed it up best last year at The Players Championship. He wandered onto the TPC Sawgrass to watch Woods for a couple of holes, then walked back in. “It’s nothing spe­cial,” he said. 
So why the special treatment? 
Because Woods is approaching an important anniversary. 
It’s not the one-year anniver­sary of his return to competition at the Masters, where he played off memory and somehow tied for fourth at Augusta National with a performance that raised false hopes. 
It’s the 10-year anniversary of his greatest feat. 
Woods won the Masters in 2001 to become the only player to hold all four major champi­onships at the same time. It took him 294 days to achieve some­thing that might never be done again. There was no one close to him in the game back then. 
There remains no one close to him in interest level now. 
That’s why he draws the biggest crowds. That’s why tele­vision can’t resist showing him. 
A few years ago, Sean O’Hair was in rough on the 14th hole of the North Course at Torrey Pines, and Woods was on the adjacent hole. Spotting a reporter, O’Hair playfully asked why he was always watching Woods. Then came a question to O’Hair: “If you had this job, who would you be watching on Thursday?” 
“Tiger,” O’Hair said with a laugh. 
Woods was more interesting to watch when he was winning 40 percent of his tournaments, when he looked like a special player. Now he is interesting in a nostalgic sense. They remember how he once performed and wonder if he ever will play that way again. 
Will he reach, let alone sur­pass, the benchmark of 18 pro­fessional majors won by Jack Nicklaus? 
Can he be golf’s best player again? 
Not even Woods knows the answer. 
All anyone has at the moment are memories of how he once played, and they are strong enough to hold the interest. 
In times of parity — which is what Woods’ demise has brought 
— come reminders of how hard it is to win, and how often Woods won. Consider this: Before turn­ing 30, Woods already had 46 wins on the PGA Tour and 10 majors. 
Until someone else comes along — probably not in Woods’ lifetime — everyone will want to know about Woods, good or bad. Some watch because they are eager to see him dominate again. Some watch because they delight in his failure. Others are just curious. 
But they’re watching. 
At the 1999 Masters, when Woods was rebuilding his swing and was no longer No. 1 in the world, he was in the middle of the pack and headed for Amen Corner on Saturday with a dozen or so media close behind. A radio technician looked at the approaching mass with disdain, shook his head and said, “Why are you guys following Tiger? He’s not even the story.” 
That’s when someone posed a question. 
If Nicklaus had called Augusta National that day, he probably would have asked who was lead­ing the tournament. 
What would his next question be? 
MLB 

Wilson, Rangers primed to defend pennant 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas — Texas left-hander C.J. Wilson was already at Rangers Ballpark on Tuesday, getting extra treatment on his left hamstring and preparing for his first opening day start. 
Wilson came out of his final spring training start after 
only two innings Saturday because of tightness in the hamstring. He said he will be ready Friday when the AL champions open their season at home against Boston. 
“The issue was I had a little bit of tightness the day before from sprinting, so it was just something residual I just couldn’t get really rid of that day,” Wilson said. “The next day was a lot better, the day after that was a lot of better and today it’s a lot better.” 
Wilson threw a 45 -pitch bullpen session Monday in Arizona before flying home to Texas. 
“Just very normal. Everything is fine,” he said. 
The rest of the Rangers were in Myrtle Beach, S.C., on Tuesday night for an exhi­bition game, then play their Triple-A affiliate in Round Rock, Texas, on Wednesday night. They will have a work­
out Thursday at Rangers Ballpark. 
“I came here instead of doing the whole barnstorm­ing tour,” Wilson said. “Just to get extra treatment and get massages and kind of be in a little more controlled environment and get used to the time zone and all of that stuff.” 
Wilson was 15-8 with a 3.35 ERA in 33 starts last year, his first full season as a starter after the former closer made the transition from the bullpen. He pitched a career-high 204 innings with 170 strikeouts. 
The Rangers, who lost ace left-hander Cliff Lee in free agency, tabbed Wilson as their opening day starter early in spring training. Colby Lewis, who won 12 regular-season games in his return from Japan last season before going 3-0 with a 1.71 ERA in four postseason starts, will follow Wilson in the rotation. 
“I couldn’t have been any happier with the year that he had last year and the way he took to starting, ” said Rangers CEO and team presi­dent Nolan Ryan, the Hall of Famer who pitched a record 27 seasons. “I’ ve seen a maturity in him that I think he is very comfortable in his role one of our premier starters and he’s matured into that capacity, so I really expect this year to be even better than last year.” 


CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
In the morning wake me up  
FOR SALE  17702 Douglas Rd  NOTICES  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  WANTED  And tell me everything So I can understand your world  
South Bend  Don't go it alone.  And you can understand my dream  
Home in Clay Twship  Newly Renovated  Notre Dame has many resources in  Earn Extra Money  Yeah I could be anywhere  
-less than 3mi to ND.  3 Bed/2 Full Bath  place to assist you.  Students needed ASAP.  And you could be there with me  
$75K.  2,312 SF  If you or someone you care about  Earn up to $150 per day being a  But I just want to be a ghost  
2BR 1BA.  2 Ponds Creek  has been sexually assaulted,  If you or someone you love needs  Mystery Shopper.  And see everything  
Double lot, privacy fence,  Lots of Parking  we can help.  confidential support or assistance,  No Experience Required.  I don’t want it to be the way they  
30x30 pole barn, 6 person hot-tub,  Walk to Campus  please call Sr. Sue Dunn  Call 1-888-534-5008  want it  
nice deck and firepit.  50+ Photos on web  For more information,  at 1-7819.  ———————————————  This Town, this night, this crowd  
Wood heat. New furnace and water  17702douglas.com  visit Notre Dames website:  Come on put em up, lemme hear it  
heater.  574-876-8596  For more information,  I see you driving  loud  
Low taxes.  http://csap.nd.edu  visit ND's website at:  Round town with the girl I love  This Town, this city, this crowd  
Call 574-261-2357  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  And I’m like: Haiku  -OAR  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Wednesday, March 30, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Harrelson embraces role as Kanter’s replacement 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. — Kentucky center Josh Harrellson could hear the murmurs when the NCAA ruled freshman big man Enes Kanter permanently ineli­gible in January. 
The thought was the Wildcats were done without the highly recruited Kanter. That they couldn’t thrive relying on Harrellson, a little-used reserve who played all of 88 minutes as junior, to serve as their only post presence. 
Harrellson tried not to take it personally. He knows better than most how good Kanter is and even offered to give up his senior year if it meant Kanter 
— sidelined for accepting improper benefits while playing for a Turkish club team two years ago — could take his place. 
Though it was a heartfelt ges­ture, it had no bearing on Kanter’s situation. 
“I wanted him to play more than anybody,” Harrellson said. “Well, maybe Coach (John Calipari) wanted him to play more.” 
And the rest of one of college basketball’s most ardent fan bases. 
Harrellson was considered too goofy, too slow, too inconsistent to be considered a legitimate threat at either end of the floor. 
This is the same kid who once skipped a game as a freshman in high school to go deer hunt­ing, who had his Twitter privi­leges revoked by Calipari after expressing frustration over what he considered a lack of respect from his coach. 
Kanter’s nickname is “the UnderKanter,” a twist on one of his idols, professional wrestler “The Undertaker.” Harrellson’s nickname is “Jorts,” a tribute to his affinity for knee-length jean shorts that he likes to wear regardless of the sometimes unpredictable Bluegrass weath­er. 
Many felt there was no way the Wildcats could be consid­ered a legitimate Final Four threat with Harrellson as the enforcer. But the end of Kanter’s season became the beginning of Harrellson’s ren­aissance. 


The player considered an afterthought in October is own­ing March while leading the Wildcats to their first Final Four in 13 years. Kentucky (29-8) plays Connecticut (30-9) in Houston on Saturday for a spot in the national title game. 
“When Josh heard Enes couldn’t play, he changed his mentality,” said Kentucky guard DeAndre Liggins. “He started to do all his extra stuff to make him better.” 
Technically, Harrellson didn’t have a choice. Calipari’s punish­ment for Harrellson running off at the Twitter was to make him run until he puked on the court. He ordered Harrellson to endure grueling conditioning drills 30 minutes before each practice. 
Calipari was trying to get Harrellson to quit. Harrellson did the opposite. 
Suddenly the kid who admits he only picked up the game because he was tall and good at it, but couldn’t play more than a handful of minutes without ask­ing to come out, was running the floor alongside Calipari’s latest batch of McDonald’s All-Americans. 
He scored 23 points and grabbed 14 rebounds in a win over Louisville on New Year’s Eve and led the Southeastern Conference in rebounding, averaging 8.8 in league play. 
Harrellson has been even bet­ter in the postseason, where he’s averaging 12.8 points and 
8.7 rebounds a game while holding his own against some of the best post players in the country. 
Battling against Kanter — who opted to serve as a student assistant following his NCAA ban — in practice each day gave Harrellson confidence he could hang with the best. Kanter held the advantage early in the season, but their one-on­one battles aren’t so lopsided anymore. 
That confidence has allowed Harrellson to play with a fear­lessness he lacked during his first two years on campus after transferring from Southwest Illinois College. 
Harrellson simply refuses to back down from a challenge no matter who he’s banging against. 
The former Little League pitcher threw a fastball off Ohio State freshman Jared Sullinger in the regional semifinals while falling out of bounds. The play helped ignite the Wildcats to a 62-60 upset and led Buckeyes coach Thad Matta to call Harrellson one of the most underrated players in the coun­try. 
He was just as good in the regional final against North Carolina. Harrellson finished with 12 points, eight rebounds, four assists and two steals as the Wildcats moved on to the Final Four for the first time since winning it all in 1998. 
The Final Four is rarified air for a player who spent the first three days of his high school career in St. Charles, Mo., standing alone under a basket until he proved to coach Ben Owens he could make one. 
“He didn’t know what to do,” Owens said. “He was extremely confused. He couldn’t really dribble. He just didn’t have any basketball sense in him, which is completely understandable.” 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 30, 2011 
NFL 

Dez Bryant sued by Dallas-area creditors 

Associated Press 
DALLAS — In the 18 months before Dez Bryant signed with the Dallas Cowboys, he appar­ently spent like a superstar. 
He bought at least seven men’s watches and two more for women. He paid $65,500 for a diamond cross made of white gold and $60,000 for a custom charm. He ordered a set of dog tags made of white gold and dia­monds, and all sorts of other rings, earrings, bracelets and necklaces in various shades of gold, nearly all crammed with diamonds. 
And finally, according to a pair of Texas lawsuits, Bryant ponied up for tickets to Cowboys and Mavericks playoff games, and to see LeBron James play. He also acquired some cash, at least $35,000. 
Bryant got it all through a line of credit set up by his adviser, the lawsuits say, all with the understanding that he’d settle up once he signed his first pro contract. 
But eight months after striking a deal that included $8.5 million guaranteed from the Cowboys, Bryant is facing two claims from people who say they are tired of waiting to get paid. A man from the Dallas-Fort Worth area, and a New York company, are seek­ing a total of $861,350, plus interest and attorneys fees. 
Bryant’s attorney, state Sen. Royce West, declined comment on the specifics in the lawsuits, calling them “sheer allegations.” 
“What we’re seeing is Dez Bryant being singled out,” West said. “There are lawsuits. They will be resolved.” 
Bryant is a dazzling receiver and punt returner, but his char­acter and maturity have often been questioned. That’s widely considered the reason he went from a likely top-10 pick in last year’s draft to No. 24. 
Since he joined the Cowboys, he’s made plenty of off-the-field headlines. He spent $54,896 on a single meal, and then there was the Dolphins executive who got punished for asking in a pre­draft interview whether Bryant’s mother was a prostitute. 
Just last week, Bryant got into a ruckus at an upscale Dallas mall. A shouting match with an off-duty police officer, stemming from him and his friends wear­ing their pants too low, led to him being banned from the premises for a few days. 
The latest revelation, about debt Bryant ran up before he was drafted, raises the question of how much more he’s spent since then. 
Cowboys spokesman Rich Dalrymple said the team had no comment. 
The bigger of the lawsuits involves Eleow Hunt, a jeweler and ticket broker from suburban Colleyville. He is seeking repay­ment for $588,500 in jewelry, $15,850 for tickets and $11,000 in loans. 
Hunt said in the lawsuit that a buy-now, pay-later system was set up by David Wells, Bryant’s adviser and a co-defendant in the case. Hunt said he’s known Wells for more than 10 years, and that they used a similar arrangements the year before with Wells’ cousin — Michael Crabtree, the standout receiver at Texas Tech who was a first-round pick of the San Francisco 49ers. 
“Mr. Crabtree ended up doing exactly what he said he would do, so my client felt pretty com­fortable,” said Hunt’s attorney, Beth Ann Blackwood. 
Bryant and Wells signed 17 receipts from January 2009 to July 2010, the lawsuit said. The longest wait between purchases was 2 ½ months. 
The bills ranged from $15,500 to $71,500, although Bryant also rang up $94,000 on two receipts in a single day. 
The haul included six men’s watches and two women’s watches, and a variety of men’s and women’s diamond earrings. There were bracelets, rings and necklaces, with themes ranging from skulls to religion (three dia­mond crosses, a diamond Jesus medallion and a rosary made from diamonds and palladium). 
All that’s been paid was $15,000 of the original loan amount, Hunt’s lawsuit says. 
Hunt originally filed suit in September. Hunt didn’t try publi­cizing it because he continued calling Bryant in hopes of work­ing something out. 
“My client was basically being nice,” Blackwood said. “He deals with a lot of professional ath­letes, and he’s not in the habit of trying to raise a fuss or have a high profile. He genuinely liked Dez Bryant and thought he would come through. ... My client’s finally decided Dez does­n’t care, he’s not going to keep his word. My client is pretty angry.” 


Wednesday, March 30, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
Norton 
continued from page 16 
two double plays started by senior third baseman Greg Sherry to help the right-han­der get out of a couple early jams. 
Aoki said the ground ball out is a big part of Norton’s game. 
“Every once in a while he shows a little bit of velocity with his four-seam,” Aoki said. “But he uses that two-seam to get under the barrel a little bit against right-han­ders. Thankfully today, those balls on the pull side found some gloves.” 
Notre Dame finally broke through against Morrow in the sixth with a rally started by the middle of the order. Freshman center fielder Jagielo opened the inning with a double, and fellow freshman Trey Mancini drove him in with a single. Mancini advanced to second on the throw home, and senior left fielder Matt Grosso made the extra base count with a sin­gle to put the Irish up two. 

Senior right fielder Herman Petzold, who went three-for­three on the day, capped the rally with a double to round out the Irish scoring. Aoki said he was pleased with the offense in the frame. 
“That’s what you need,” he said. “We had some other opportunities to do it. I was­n’t crazy about our at-bats earlier in the game with run­ners in scoring position. But in the sixth inning I thought our at-bats were pretty good. The way our offense has been going, to score three runs all in one inning is an absolute bonanza.” 
Central Michigan cut into the lead with a two-run home run from junior first base­man Nate Theunissen in the top of the seventh. Norton eventually gave way to the bullpen, and junior Will Hudgins preserved the lead with a scoreless eighth. 
Freshman closer Dan Slania ran into trouble in the ninth, as the Chippewas opened the frame with a triple and a walk. Slania fought back with two consec­utive strikeouts and complet­ed the save on a soft ground-out to senior shortstop Mick Doyle. 
“That [save] was huge,” Aoki said. “I thought Danny taking out those two guys by himself to get two outs was great, I thought [sophomore catcher Joe Hudson] made a great block on that slider that Slania buried to strike someone out. Then the play to end the game was not a routine play either that Doyle made, so I thought that was really good.” 
I thought our team showed a little resiliency and tough­ness there, and it was nice to see that.” 
The Irish return to action when they travel to Pittsburgh, Pa., to take on the Panthers (13-9, 1-2) in a Big East weekend series. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
NHL 

Thomas shuts out Hawks 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — Tim Thomas stopped 32 shots for his ninth shutout of the season, and Mark Recchi moved into 12th on the NHL’s career points list on Tuesday night as the Boston Bruins beat the Chicago Blackhawks 3-0. 
Zdeno Chara and Johnny Boychuk scored 2 minutes, 20 seconds apart in the second period to break a scoreless tie, and Recchi assisted on the sec­ond goal to give him 1,532 points — one more than Paul Coffey. Nathan Horton made it 3-0 in the third. 

It was the 25th shutout of Thomas’ career, and his sec­ond in three games. He has allowed just two goals in four games to drop his league-lead­ing goals-against average to 1.96. 
Corey Crawford made 31 saves for the defending Stanley Cup champions, who had won three of four but remained three points ahead of idle Calgary for eighth place in the Western Conference. 
The Bruins protected their lead over Montreal atop the Northeast Division and moved three points behind the Washington Capitals in the race for the No. 2 seed in the East. 
One night after an overtime victory in Detroit, the Blackhawks started slow and didn’t get off a shot for the first 7:44. 
Broncos 
continued from page 16 
including a two-run homer to Western Michigan junior Tara Buchanan. 
Notre Dame’s numerous hits belied the deficit. 
“I don’t think that the team was nervous,” senior catcher Lex Clay said. “I don’t think that we really realized we were losing until the fifth inning because we had been getting so many hits — we had eight hits within four innings — and we were get­ting runners on base. We just weren’t executing. So I think people didn’t realize until near the end of the game that we were actually still down, and then we had to press a little bit.” 
From the second inning on, Notre Dame’s pitching was nearly flawless, allowing the Broncos just two more hits and serving 10 strikeouts on the day. Though the Irish pitching staff has struggled of late, freshman pitcher Laura Winter was a bright spot in Tuesday’s game. She kept the Irish in the game by attacking the Broncos, throwing 23 strikes in 27 pitches. 
“The pitchers are trying to work on that [throwing strikes] and the defense is trying to play behind them,” Clay said. “So we’re really trying to stay focused and still improve defensively because the reality is we still need to improve to do well in the postseason.” 
On the other side of the ball, however, Notre Dame remained stagnant. Of the team’s 10 hits, senior Heather Johnson’s two-run triple in the third was the only one to lead to runs scored. 
In the final four innings, despite Winter and junior Alexa Maldonado both tally­ing three-for-four hitting per­formances, Notre Dame was simply unable to keep the game close. The Irish left 10 runners on base during the loss. 
“I think for us it’s very important to focus on execu­tion because we did have 10 hits — they just weren’t time­ly,” Clay said. “So I think that focusing on being a clutch player offensively will really help us.” 
The team was visibly stunned by the loss, but Clay admitted that the team has room to grow. She said last Friday’s convincing 4-1 victo­ry over Northern Illinois was not Notre Dame’s finest per­formance. 
“Even though we won the last game and we executed very well, we still haven’t been playing our best,” the senior said. “So maybe we’re in a bit of a slump. I’m not sure, but our team is pretty resilient and I’m confident that we’ll get back out of it.” 
The Irish will attempt to do just that as they take to Melissa Cook Stadium once again against Purdue (19-7) Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 


MLB 

Jason Giambi’s trainer supplied Bonds steroids 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Colorado Rockies first baseman Jason Giambi and his brother testified Tuesday that Barry Bonds’ per­sonal trainer supplied them with performance-enhancing drugs. 
The two were the first athletes called to testify at the Bonds perjury trial, which is in its sec­ond week. 
Appearing calm, Jason Giambi testified that he met trainer Greg Anderson after the 2002 season while both were travel­ing through Japan with a U.S. all-star team. 
When they returned to the states, Anderson had Giambi’s blood tested and it turned up positive for a steroid that Major League Baseball was planning to test for during the 2003 sea­son. 
“Anderson told me that would trip a Major League Baseball test and that I should take something else,” Giambi said. 
Giambi said he paid Anderson a total of about $10,000 for sev­eral shipments of steroids known as “the clear” and “the cream” designed to evade detection starting in late 2002 and through the beginning of the 2003 baseball season. Syringes and a calendar detail­ing when he should take the substances were included in the first shipment, Giambi testified. 
During cross examination, Bonds attorney Cris Arguedas read Giambi’s 2003 grand jury testimony when he testified that Anderson had told him “the clear and the cream had steroid-like effects without being a steroid.” 
Giambi agreed with that testi­mony. 
Bonds lawyer Allen Ruby said that Bonds used the designer steroids, but believed Anderson when he told the slugger they were legal supplements. 
Giambi’s brother, Jeremy Giambi, testified similarly. Jeremy Giambi played for four major league teams during a five-year career that ended in 2003. 
Neither Giambi provided direct testimony about Bonds. Instead, prosecutors hope to use their testimony — and that of other players — to show that Anderson was a well-known steroids dealer. Anderson is in jail for refusing to testify at the trial. 
Several other athletes are expected to testify about their relationship with Anderson this week. 
Bonds, the major league record-holder for home runs in a career (762) and a season (73), has pleaded not guilty to four charges that he lied to a grand jury when he denied knowingly taking performance-enhancing drugs. He also plead­ed not guilty to a charge of obstruction. 
Before the Giambis’ afternoon testimony, former San Francisco Giants trainer Stan Conte testi­fied that Bonds added signifi­cant muscle mass before the 2000 season. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 30, 2011 
Corrigan 
continued from page 16 
to be together with that dis­appointment than for every­body to have headed off for the summer, and we wouldn’t [have seen] each other until this fall.” 
While visiting Japan, Notre Dame played a schedule that consisted mainly of local col­lege teams, but also included two matchups against Japan’s national team, both of which the Irish won. 
Sophomore attack Ryan Foley says that the overall atmosphere of the contests gave the players an opportu­nity to retake the field in a stress-free environment. 
“It was good to play right after the national champi­
onship — just to play in a kind of loose atmosphere and just have fun,” he said. 
That is not to say that the matches were uncompetitive. Foley said that the college teams, and especially the national team, showcased proficiency in the expanding sport. 
“We were actually very impressed with the level that they were at considering how little experience most of them had playing,” Foley said. “The competition was really good. They had a different style, which was fun to see, but we were definitely impressed with how far along a lot of them were.” 
The Irish also held instruc­tional clinics for the younger Japanese boys, and Foley said the participants took an immediate interest in the game of lacrosse. 
“We ran a clinic for the younger guys after one of our games,” he said. “We were really impressed with how hungry they were to learn the game.” 
While acting as teachers of the primarily North-American sport, Corrigan said that the Irish were in Japan first and foremost as students. 
“We don’t take those trips as much for the lacrosse ben­efit as much as for the overall educational benefit and the teambuilding,” he said. “It is such a great experience — it is such a great thing for a team to do together.” 
The players had ample opportunity to immerse them­selves in the culture of Japan, visiting a spectrum of local sights and even lodging with residents of the city. 
“We got to visit various cul­tural staples,” Foley said. “We got to see some temples, we got to tour some towns. We kind of split up and got to experience the culture first­hand and the day-to-day life of those people over there. It was incredible. It was an eye­opening experience.” 
Considering their newfound connection to Japan and its people, the Irish players and coaches said they have a spe­cial cause for concern follow­ing this month’s earthquake and tsunami. The team’s main contact during their time in Japan is safe, but he has been relocated by his company to Hong Kong for the time being. 
“He said as far as his per­sonal situation, he’s fine,” Corrigan said. 
Following their 8-3 win over Rutgers last Sunday, the Irish are currently at the midway point of their season. They look to continue their successful campaign Saturday when they host Villanova (7­2). 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
Belles 
continued from page 16 

able to stay focused despite a quick start from Manchester. 
“They definitely jumped on us early at the plate in the first game,” Mitchell said. “We kept composure, and my teammates had some clutch hits to get our momentum going and keep us in the game.” 
Freshman pitcher Callie Selner came up big for the Belles, hit­ting her first career home run, and senior captain and outfielder Hayley Bojorquez chipped in a three-run homer of her own. 
Selner was an important play­er on both sides of the diamond, as she earned her fifth win of the season after throwing all seven innings of the game. At the plate, she tallied a double, two runs scored and three RBIs to go along with her home run. 
In game two, Saint Mary’s got off to an early start, scoring two runs in the top half of the first inning. Manchester came back and scored two in the top of the second, but the Belles countered with six runs on seven hits in the bottom of the second. 
“Manchester was well pre­pared,” Sullivan. “They definitely didn’t give up, even when they were down in game two. They made us better today.” 
In total, the team amassed 31 hits in 12 innings of play. 
“We were aggressive at the plate, but we weren’t over-anx­ious,” Mitchell said. “[Selner] and [junior pitcher Monica Palicki] both threw good games, and we just kept putting the ball in play and making things happen.” 
Sullivan said she believes her team is performing at its best. 
“When we play with confi­dence and win every inning we can, we are successful,” Sullivan said. “I tell my team I don’t want robots on the field. They are smart ball players and need to trust their instincts and experi­ence.” 
The Belles will begin confer­ence play on Saturday, April 2 at 2 p.m. against Alma (17-2). 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
Albion 
continued from page 16 
lone singles victory (6-1, 6-2) 
over sophomore Allie 
Bloodworth in the No. 5 sin­gles match. 
After 11 days between matches, the Belles return to the courts to play back-to­back home contests April 2 at 1 p.m. against MIAA oppo­
nent Trine (3-5) and April 3 against non-conference foe North Central (10-3), also at 1 p.m. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 



Wednesday, March 30, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 

LAURA McGINN 


 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Wednesday, March 30, 2011 page 16 
BASEBALL 

Big inning ‘bonanza’ 
Norton pitches seven 

strong innings for Irish  
By CHRIS ALLEN  
Sports Writer  
For the majority of the cur­ 
rent season, Irish coach Mik  
Aoki has called for his team  
t o p r odu c e a t t h e p la t e in  
timely situations. He got his  
wish Tuesday night, even if it  
was only for one inning.  
N ot r e D a m e ( 1 0 -12 -1 )  
s co re d t hr e e r un s o n f o u r  
consecutive hits in its half of  
the sixth inning and sopho­ 
more starting pitcher Adam  
Norton (1-1) made the lead  
stand up with seven innings  
of two-run ball, as the Irish  
took down Central Michigan  
(9-16) 3-2.  
N or t o n a n d C e n t r a l  
M i c hig a n s t a r te r B ry c e  
Morrow started the contest  
t o s s i ng up z e r o s , as b o t h  
teams struggled to get much  
going in the first five innings.  
Norton was the beneficiary of  JULIE HERDER/The Observer  
see NORTON/page 13  Senior outfelder Matt Grosso runs the basepaths during a 4-3 loss to Georgetown March 27at Frank Eck Stadium. The Irish rebounded with a 3-2 victory over Central Michigan Tuesday.  

SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles take two from Manchester 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s put on a strong showing against Manchester Tuesday, winning 10-5 and 12-4 in a double header to bring the Belles’ record to 10-3 on the sea­son. 
“It was nice to finally play at home,” junior infielder Kate Mitchell said. “We were comfort­able and ready to put yesterday’s game behind us.” 
In the first game Manchester scored early, leading 5-0 after only two innings. The Belles quickly took control of the game from there, earning their first run on a dropped third strike and scoring four in the third inning. 
“We were much looser today,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. “We looked confident at the plate, which was the biggest reason behind our success.” 
Mitchell thought her team was 
see BELLES/page 14 
SMC TENNIS 

Albion sweeps doubles pairings to beat Saint Mary’s 
the Eck Tennis Pavilion. the night. senior and Albion rival aggressive on the net, and
By MATT UNGER 

“Hopefully we get another Doubles play has been a Shelley Zamler in a back -more confident in my serves
Sports Writer 

chance.” weakness for Saint Mary’s and-forth match (0-6, 6-0, 3-in the second set,” Hurley On the doubles side, the this year. The Belles are just 6). The two opponents have said. “Overall, I’m not upset 
In Saint Mary’s MIAA open-Britons (5-1, 2-0) defeated 15-15 in doubles matches, frequently faced each other as we both played well in the er Tuesday, Albion College the Belles’ No. 1 and No. 2 while holding a 35-25 record over the past four years in third set.” held the edge in doubles play, squads 8-3 and 8-5, respec-in singles matches. team matches and conference The third singles set finishing 3-0 in deciding sets tively. However, Saint Mary’s “While we made some tournaments, with Zamler plagued the Belles Tuesday, in singles’ play to earn a 7-2 third doubles team, composed strides tonight, we need to winning every contest. as Hurley and seniors Mary victory over the Belles (5-5, of freshman Mary Catherine improve our play [in doubles] While Tuesday’s outcome Therese Lee and Franca 0-1). Faller and senior Jessica by taking advantage of oppor-proved no different for Peluso each lost to their 
“I was proud of the team’s Kosinski, defeated Albion’s tunities to attack around the Hurley, she was proud of her opponents in the final set. effort, but we knew we had duo of freshman Marrissa net,” Campbell said. effort, especially in a domi-Senior Kate Grabarek deci­the talent to beat this team,” Messanger and Leah In singles play, Belles No. 1 nating second set that gave sively collected the Belles’ Belles coach Dale Campbell Saurman 8-3 to register one player and senior co-captain her a shot in the third set. said following the match at of the two team victories on Jillian Hurley fell to fellow “I came out relaxed, more see ALBION/page 14 
ND SOFTBALL 

Broncos claim win over ND 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
The weather was not the only thing cold for the Irish on Tuesday, as their struggle to generate offense resulted in a 3-2 loss to Western Michigan on their home turf. The loss snapped Notre Dame’s 21-game home win­ning streak, the fifth longest in the nation. 
Though the Irish (17-7) out­hit the Broncos 9-4, an explo­sive first-inning for Western Michigan put Notre Dame in a deficit that they were never able to recover from. Senior pitcher Joey Valdivia strug­gled early, allowing three earned runs in the first, 
see BRONCOS/page 13 

MEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish remember trip to Japan last summer 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 

Rattling off win after win, the No. 2 Irish appear to have avoided any title game hangover, a feat due at least in part to the team’s early offseason trip. 
Only one day after a heartbreaking 6-5 overtime loss to Duke in last year’s NCAA championships, the Irish (6-0) regained their confidence and enjoyed a much-needed break during their trip to Roppongi, Japan, a district on the out­skirts of Tokyo. 
The trip was the most recent installment of a lacrosse tradition in which Notre Dame travels to a dif­ferent location once every four years. Coming immedi­ately on the heels of a loss in the program’s first ever championship game, last year’s trip took on added significance. 
“It was really about as good of a thing as you could have planned,” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. “We got a chance to go over there and really enjoy what we had just been through for the last month and cele­brate what we did. Yeah, there was disappointment as well, but … it was better 
see CORRIGAN/page 14 






