the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame closed Wednesday due to winter weather for the first time in 10 years. 
Students, faculty and staff were notified of the decision through the University’s emergency alert system around 6:30 a.m. Wednesday. 
“Because of dangerous weather conditions, classes have been cancelled and the campus will be closed for business today,” the alert said. “ Snow Essential Personnel are asked to report to work, but to use caution.” 
Notre Dame last closed due to winter weather on Dec. 12, 2000, according to University spokesman Dennis Brown. Final exams were postponed for one day. 
Before the 2000 snow day, Notre Dame closed due to a snowstorm in January, 1997. 
University offices were closed Wednesday, but North and South Dining Halls, LaFortune Student Center and Reckers remained open for students. RecSports recreation facilities, includ­ing Rolfs Sports Recreation Center, Rockne Memorial and Rolfs Aquatic Center also 

ND closes for first time since 2000 
held regular hours. 
Classes were also cancelled Wednesday at Saint Mary’s, where the Noble Family Dining Hall and C-Store remained open. 
South Bend Mayor Luecke declared a “snow emer­gency” at 6 a.m. Wednesday, prohibiting non-emergency traffic on all streets through­out the city. He advised resi­dents to stay home and restrict travel. 
The City of South Bend lift­ed the “snow emergency” at 4 p.m., but parking was pro­hibited on snow routes until Thursday morning. 
“City crews have been working 24/7 to clear the snow and will continue to do so until all streets are com­plete,” a Wednesday after­noon media advisory from the City stated. 
The Associated Press reported tens of millions of people stayed home Wednesday due to the winter storm, which spread from Oklahoma to New England. 
Chicago, where 20.2 inches fell, experienced the most snow in the storm, which was a result of the rare clashing of two air masses, according to the Associated Press. 
Council approves five tickets 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN and 
EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writers 
Notre Dame’s Judicial Council approved five tickets this week to run for the position of student body president and vice president for the 2011-12 school year. 
The candidates are: sophomore Ricky Bevington and junior Olivia Colangelo, junior Pat McCormick and sophomore Brett Rocheleau, freshmen Kevin Noonan and Matthew Thomas, juniors Catherine Soler and Emily LeStrange and junior James Ward and freshman Heather Eaton. 
Ricky Bevington and Olivia Colangelo 
Bevington said his ticket hopes to achieve three major goals: stu­dent government efficacy, University teamwork and student body unity. 
“We want to be sure that all of the governing organizations on campus work together to do what 
see ELECTION/page 3 


Keenan Revue set for Stepan 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
The Keenan Revue will be held in the Stepan Center on Feb. 10 -12, marking its return to Notre Dame’s cam­pus from its previous venue, Saint Mary’s O’Laughlin Auditorium. 
“Last year, we found out through The Observer that we couldn’t use the venue any­more,” producer Chase Riddle, a junior, said. “They said it wasn’t keeping with their mission statement. We went on a wild goose chase to find something comparable [in size].” 
Riddle said they searched for a place starting immedi­ately after last year’s Revue, looking at options on and off campus. They finalized the 
see KEENAN/page 5 



University continues work for Sudan 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
Associate News Editor 
A University delegation presented a student petition to policymakers in Washington, D.C., and Baltimore, Md., in December to advocate for a sustainable peace in Sudan. 
Social Concerns chair Pat McCormick, men’s lacrosse operations coordinator Kevin Dugan, graduate student Emmanuel Gore and junior lacrosse player Jake Brems met with representatives from the government and Catholic Relief Services dur­ing their trip. 
“The visit to D.C. was the culmination of all the work we had all done as a school, not just student government but also the lacrosse team, the Kroc Institute, the Center for Social Concerns and dorms,” McCormick said. “All of these groups had come together to speak for justice and for a peaceful referendum. What was so exciting was to have the opportunity … to take Notre Dame’s advocacy to Washington and to Baltimore to make sure the voices of Notre Dame students were heard.” 
The two-day itinerary included talks with Kalpen Modi, associate director of public engagement at the White House, Samantha Power, special assistant to President Barack Obama for Sudan, and Karen Richardson, international affairs liaison. The group also met with Peter QuAranto, the special envoy to Sudan from the State Department, and Catholic Relief Services. 
“The discussion focused on the students’ campus-wide campaign to raise awareness of the Jan. 9 referenda in Sudan, genocide in Darfur and the critical role that young people play in mobiliz­ing communities around key humanitarian issues,” a press release from Modi stat­ed. 
The northern and southern 
see SUDAN/page 3 

MALCOLM PHELAN/The Observer Pat McCormick speaks at a Sudan Rally in December with Fr. Hesburgh and men’s lacrosse operations coordinator Kevin Dugan. 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER National Signing Day Insider  Film, fashion review page 10  Men’s basketball plays DePaul page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
QUESTION OF THE DAY:  OW DID YOU CELEBRATE T E SNOWPOCALYPSE?

THE OBSERVER 





P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin ADVERTISING MANAGER: 
Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Laura McCrystal Eric Prister Alicia Smith Matt Robison Christian Myers Scene Graphics Mary Claire Lauren Kalinoski O’Donnell 
Photo Viewpoint 
Tom La Ren Brauweiler 
OFFBEAT 
‘Biggest Loser’ competitor sells 1.5 lb. burger 
AFTON, Wyo. — An Olympic champion wrestler has been serving a 1.5-pound hamburger at his Wyoming restaurant, even while com­peting to be “The Biggest Loser” on TV. 
The mighty Rulon Burger at Rulon Gardner’s Burger Barn restaurant is so big it’s molded in a pizza tin. It comes on a bun with all the toppings. 
Gardner won gold at the 2000 Olympics by beating Alexander Karelin, a Russian who hadn’t lost in 13 years. Gardner’s challenge to all comers now: Finish the burg­er plus a basket of fries and a 44-ounce drink in 20 min­utes. 
Carolyn Christian  Katie Heinzen  David Murphy  Jennifer Berry  Steven Cress  
junior  senior  freshman  senior  junior  
Lewis  Welsh Family  Zahm  Welsh Family  off campus  

“Snow rugby! “I went on an “I walked “I worked at the “Watched We’re going to epic walk with across the Dining Hall.” reruns of nationals in pictures.” frozen Saint Modern Family” April!” Mary’s Lake.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

Winners get a signed Rulon Gardner Olympic Champion T-shirt and their name on Rulon’s Wall of Fame. Gardner’s best time is 8 min­utes, 23 seconds, set when he opened the restaurant in his hometown in 2004. 
This year, Gardner has been competing to lose weight on the NBC show, “The Biggest Loser.” He weighed in at the beginning at 474 pounds, more than 200 pounds heavier than when he won gold. 
Filipinos celebrate Year of Rabbit with golden cakes 
MANILA — Wealthy Chinese-Filipinos are snap­ping up rice cakes decorated with gold and diamonds to celebrate the Lunar New Year in hopes of attracting good luck in the Year of the Rabbit. 
The rabbit-shaped gluti­nous rice cakes sell for between $500 and $2,700 and are covered with 24­carat gold foil and a few small diamonds. 
The creator of the custom-baked sweets, Angelito Araneta Jr., says they are meant to attract wealth as well as secure good ties with friends and kin. 
Chinese-Filipinos tradition­ally share glutinous rice cakes with family and friends to celebrate the Lunar New Year, which falls on Thursday this year. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Kurtis Gurley, associate profes­sor of civil and coastal engineering at the University of Florida, will present the next installment of the Spring 2011 Seminar Series, Challenges and Innovations in Civil and Environmental Engineering. There will be an opportunity to meet Professor Kurtis Gurley prior to the seminar from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m. today in the department conference room, which is located in room 156 of Fitzpatrick Hall. 
Richard Pierce, associate pro­fessor in the Department of History and chair of Africana Studies, will give the third lecture in the Martin Luther King Jr. Series for the Study of Race. The lecture will take place from 6 to 7 
p.m. today in room 136 of DeBartolo Hall. 
Tonight in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center a film version of “King Lear” will be screened. King Lear explores the very nature of human existence. The film will be shown from 7 to 9 p.m. and ticket prices range from $16 to $20. 
Tomorrow from 2 to 5 p.m. OIT will be holding a student open house in rooms B003 and B011 in DeBartolo Hall. Students will be able to visit the new exper­imental classroom and Academic Technologies Lab to see and try out some of the latest learning technologies. 
Verónica Leyva of the Mexico Solidarity Network will be giving a lecture titled “Ciudad Juárez: The definitive neoliberal city” in the Eck Visitors Center Auditorium from 12:15 to 1:15 
p.m. tomorrow. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 
Today Tonight FriDAY saturDAY sundAY monDAY 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


16 7 HIGH 2027 3026
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

10 2 LOW 1827 2217 








Student government meetswithSouthBend police 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Two meetings in the past week between student government, the University and local law enforcement were part of ongo­ing communication between these groups, student body pres­ident Catherine Soler said. 
Soler said improvements made since the number of arrests spiked in August and September have been extensive, but student complaints have warranted dia­logue with police. 
“I think we’ve come a long way, and I think that’s evident speaking with students involved in incidents and speaking with police,” Soler said. “We do have some questions about things that happened and [police] are doing some investigation on their part.” 
Soler and chief of staff Nick Ruof met with South Bend Police Chief Capt. Jeff Rynearson Friday night. Tuesday, Soler, Ruof and student body vice pres­ident Andrew Bell met with the chiefs of both Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) and South Bend Police Department (SBPD) as well as the St. Joseph County’s Sheriff’s Department and members of University administration including Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Doyle and Vice President for Public Affairs Tim Sexton. 
“Everyone in the room had the same goals, keeping the students safe, keeping the community safe,” Soler said. “Everyone was genuinely interested in not only making things better but main­taining it.” 
Soler said the talks highlighted the steps taken on both sides of the issue: Students are making better decisions and police are being more consistent in enforcement. 
“Capt. Rynearson of SBPD said he’d seen a noticeable difference in student behavior since the fall,” she said. “Not necessarily less parties but just being smarter, which is a good thing for everyone. 
“At the party at Irish Row, the police set a limit, .05 [blood alco­hol content] or above would be taken to jail and below would be cited. Which is good because at least there’s expectations and standards.” 
Soler said while alcohol-relat­ed student arrests and citations still occur, the police have made strides in their execution. 
“In terms of respect and pro­fessionalism we’ve come really far,” she said. “We see a lot less antagonism and students don’t feel as targeted. The police [leaders] definitely expressed that [other officers] had been instructed to ensure that that’s not the attitude that comes off when they interact with stu­dents.” 
At the meeting the representa­tives also discussed improving relevant student programming, Soler said. 
“We talked a lot about pro­gramming we can do at the beginning of the year,” she said. “Not only alcohol education but a lot of safety stuff.” 
As improving police relations has been a major part of the Soler and Bell’s efforts as stu­dent government leaders, Soler hopes that communications con­tinue to improve. 
“Up until this year, students didn’t really have an opportunity to meet with the police [through student government],” she said. “We all agree this communica­tion should continue to happen in the future, that it’s been a cat­alyst on both sides.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
the summer [and the country “She assured us that the include “some wood, a few nails 


Election
could split], so these next few United States is not leaving ‘a 

Sudan 
and a little old-fashioned months will be critical ones stone unturned’ to make sure 
American hard work.” 
continued from page 1 
continued from page 1 for Sudan. The advice we got the referendum is held in a “If I had to give one piece of from those who were closer timely and peaceful manner,” 
information to the student body parts of Sudan have been in to the situation was that we he said. “But she also reiter-
University, the undergraduate stu­
about our campaign as a whole it civil war for over 50 years. need to do whatever we can ated that efforts such as 
dents,” Bevington said. “Whether would be this — we represent this means being sure that the The Comprehensive Peace to sustain attention on the Notre Dame’s rally provided 
your real interests,” Noonan said. Agreement (CPA) officially fact that this is still a moment the legitimacy policymakers 
student body is informed of 
“Which would mean more to you, ended war in 2005 and called of tremendous promise for need to engage more robustly 
important administration deci­hangover hours in the dining hall for six years of peace talks the people of Sudan but also in Sudan.” 
sions or taking steps to have a 
and a new food court, or a vague between the two regions. The a moment of potential risk.” After the appeal from the 
stronger student presence with 
promise of taxi reform? If you said agreement also scheduled a Gore is a native of Juba, a Sudanese bishops, Notre 
the Board of Trustees, we are 
taxi reform, then I don’t really referendum for Jan. 9 in city in Southern Sudan, and a Dame’s Student Senate unani­
determined make sure that the 
want your vote.” which Southern Sudan would graduate student at Notre mously approved a resolution 
student body can really make its vote on independence from Dame’s Kroc Institute for to pledge support for peace in 
mark on this campus and the Catherine Soler and Emily Northern Sudan. International Peace Studies. Sudan. The resolution asked 
world outside.” LeStrange Notre Dame’s involvement “My country, which has the University to stand 
Bevington, who currently serves Soler, student body president, with Sudan began on Oct. 5, known little but war and is behind Sudan and to call for 
as the director of student govern-and LeStrange, off-campus con­2010, when a delegation of one of the least developed full implementation of the 
ment’s First Undergraduate cerns chair, are running a cam-Sudanese bishops visited the countries in the world, is in CPA. 
Experience in Leadership (FUEL) paign based on their experience University to speak about the desperate need of peace and Student government and 
program, said student govern-within student government. CPA. The bishops then trav-stability in order for develop-other campus organizations 
ment has been important to both “It enables us to understand elled to Washington, D.C. and ment to come about,” Gore hosted the Playing for Peace 
him and his running mate how student government works New York City to meet with said. “My view on the current three-on-three basketball 
Colangelo during their time at and what it can do,” Soler said. national leaders and discuss unrest between Northern and tournament and peace rally 
Notre Dame. The ticket will focus the rela­the crisis. Southern Sudan is that it on Dec. 4 to raise more 
“Olivia and I are hoping the tionships of the University with the As the referendum does not have to be resolved awareness for the situation in 
entire student body can connect South Bend community and the approached, the bishops said by bullets, but through peace-Sudan. Over 600 students 
with us and our goals, seniors to police. Soler said the connections both sides began stockpiling ful means and dialogue.” attended the rally. 
freshmen, he said. “We want to she and LeStrange have already weapons, and the possibility An independent state will McCormick said the Notre 
provide them with experience established will be a huge asset. of violence loomed for the soon emerge in Southern Dame delegation delivered a 
from our years past and dedica-The duo has several other ideas, nation. The New York Times Sudan, he said. petition signed by over 1,000 
tion through the entirety of our including expanding tutoring reported that while the “Without the tireless and students and a copy of the 
term.” resources, student employment results of the referendum are humane efforts of the inter-resolution from Student 
reform and a monthly midnight not official, nearly 99 percent national community under Senate. 
Pat McCormick and Brett breakfast sponsored by student of Southern Sudan voted for the leadership of the United “We tried to really symbol-
Rocheleau 
government. secession after 3 million votes States government, this refer-ize the Notre Dame communi-
McCormick said his campaign 
“We hope students recognize were cast. endum would not have been ty uniting for peace in 
ideas are tied together by the 
how valuable our experience can Voting proceeded with only possible,” Gore said. “And Sudan,” he said. “There was 
belief that students don’t need a 
be in regards to efficiency and small local conflicts, but diffi-without the active role of a lot of skepticism about 
voice because they already have a 
previous relationships,” Soler said. cult times approach as the Notre Dame and other like-whether we could make a dif­
voice. 
“Emily and I are both creative and country heads to divorce. minded international civil ference, and Notre Dame stu-
According to McCormick, the 
interested in doing things better “In many ways the time of society groups … we would dents can confidently say we 
current chair of the Student 
and doing more for the student most concern is coming still,” have potentially witnessed yet contributed to peace in Sudan 
Senate’s Committee on Social 
body.” McCormick said. “The refer-another human catastrophe.” and we will continue to work 
Concerns, student voices can be a endum itself was a potential Gore said the meeting with for peace in Sudan.” 
strong force for change, and Notre James Ward and Heather Eaton flashpoint … but the Power, President Obama’s 
Dame students have often been at Ward, current junior class presi-Comprehensive Peace special assistant on Sudan, Contact Megan Doyle at 
the forefront of that change. dent, said he hopes to address the Agreement will expire over was especially encouraging. mdoyle11@nd.edu 
“We’ve seen students use their everyday issues that students voices and they can be heard,” complain about by becoming a McCormick said. “We think it’s strong leader who remains down­time student government join to-Earth. 
them and serve them in that “Our main focus is to make stu­effort.” dent government run by students The main focus for McCormick who can demonstrate leadership and his running mate Rocheleau, but at the same time remain one 
current sophomore class presi-of their peer group,” Ward said. dent, is the further development of Some of the topics the ticket is Playing for Peace, the three-on-looking to address include bring-
three basketball tournament held ing back quarter dogs, adding last semester in support of Sudan. more points to the Grab n’ Go sys-
Some of their ideas include a tem and putting a Redbox for Playing for Peace advocacy con-movie rentals in LaFortune cert and turning the Notre Dame Student Center. vs. Villanova basketball game into Ward said the fact that Eaton, 
a Playing for Peace game. freshman class president, is “We think it could be a major younger than most other nomi­platform for the University to not nees is a huge asset to their cam-only come together for important paign. and urgent issues, but also to “There wasn’t ever much policy hopefully do it in ways that are consideration to the younger exciting for students,” McCormick grades,” Ward said. “That’s what said. we hope to impact next year, to have a better representation 
Kevin Noonan and Matthew 
across the student body.” 
Thomas 
The Zahm freshmen said the Contact Melissa Flanagan at major components of their plat-mfanag3@nd.edu and Emily form are “really quite simple” and Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 


SMC library display promotes peace efforts 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
A display of CodePink rib­bon panels in the Cushwa-Leighton Library is promoting peace. 
According to the display, the group is “a women-initiat­ed grassroots peace and social justice movement working to end the war in Iraq and Afghanistan, stop new wars and redirect … resources into health care, education, green jobs and other life-affirming activi­ties.” 
“The CodePink Peace Ribbon is in the tradition of 
In addition, Barbara Gottschalk from Seeds of Peace will give a Feb. 23 pub­lic presentation entitled “Out Beyond Words: Building Seeds of Peace Worldwide.” 
Hohl said a Drumming Circle for peace and an open microphone for poetry, prose and thoughts for peace will wrap up the events March 4 in the Library. 
“The display gives us the 
opportunity to reflect on something we seem to take for granted — peace,” Saint Mary’s junior Kelly Golden said. “Whether we have given up hope for peace in a world that seems so dominated by war, or whether we forget 
remembering those who have died or been injured,” Cushwa-Leighton librari­an Bob Hohl said. 
According to Hohl, the display complements “The Aesthetics 
of War and Reconciliation” exhibition show-
i n g  a t  t h e  
M o r e a u  A r t  
G a l l e r i e s  n o w  

until Feb. 25. 
Hohl said this display contin­ues and expands 
“This semester, the CodePink exhibit and the series of talks by women peacemakers, continues to examine how we can continue the work and leadership of Jane Addams in establishing peace.” 
Bob Hohl librarian Cushwa-Leighton Library 
about it because our personal lives are running smoothly, it’s healthy to be reminded that peace is still needed in the world.” 
Other stu ­dents said it’s not just the idea behind the display, but the display itself that gen­erates emo ­tion. 
“The panels themselves are moving,” jun-
on last fall’s display, which was about the life of Jane Addams. 
“This semester, the CodePink exhibit and the series of talks by women peacemakers, continues to examine how we can continue the work and leadership of Jane Addams in establishing peace.” 
On the schedule of women peacemakers, Pat Hunt, co-chair of Chicago CodePink will speak on Feb. 9. 
On Feb. 14, National Chair of Women’s Actions for New Directions (WAND) Karen Jacob will speak. 
According to Hohl, both lec­tures will be take place at the Cushwa-Leighton Library. 
ior Kim Jordan said. “Just to think that each one was hand created by women in remem­brance of someone they knew and loved — that’s powerful. Each one of the creators has been influenced by war or some other tragedy.” 
Hohl said the display is a way to remember survivors of war. 
“Like the AIDS ribbon, it speaks to our heart and soul of the irreplaceable absence of persons loved and cher­ished by family and friends,” he said. “It is a cry against those who would wage mod­ern war.” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 



Prof.researchesdollmarketing 
Research focuses on customers at American Girl Place in Chicago 
females. 
By MARISA IATI 
“I had studied a number of 
News Writer 
other retail outlets that were more masculine in character, Notre Dame marketing pro-places like Niketown and ESPN fessor John F. Sherry, Jr. Zone,” Sherry said. “Most of received the 2011 William R. them that I studied before were Davidson Honorable Mention male-oriented, and it struck Award from the “Journal of me as a good idea to try to 
Retaili ng,” where his arti­cle on the American Girl 
C  o m  p  a  n  y  
appeared  in  
2009.  

Sherry’s arti­cle, titled, “Why Are Themed Brand Stores so Powerful? Retail Brand Ideology at American Girl Place.” Sherry and five 
“Most of them that I studied before were male-oriented, and it struck me as a good idea to try to understand a female counterpart.” 
John F. Sherry Marketing Professor 
understand a female counter­part.” 
Sherry and the other researchers studied con­sumers’ rela­tionships with American Girl Place by observ­ing customers at the store. 
“I’m an anthropologist by training, so 
other college professors wrote the article after observing cus­tomers at American Girl Place in Chicago, Sherry said. 
Sherry said the most interest­ing aspect of the project was being admitted into the female world of American Girl Place. 
The Journal of Retailing is a marketing journal that publish­es four issues annually. One article each year receives the Award for Best Paper and one receives the Honorable Mention Award, Sherry said. 
Sherry and his colleagues will receive a plaque at the American Marketing Association Winter Educators’ Conference in Boston later this month. 
Sherry said he chose to research American Girl because he wanted to study a retail company that caters to the research I do is called ethnographic research,” Sherry said. “What that means is you 
collect partici­pant observa­tions, a lot of video-taping and photography. The idea is to actually be pres­ent when the consumers are using the servic­es so you can catch them in the act.” 
The researchers focused on how consumers co-create their they don’t control the behav­iors the consumers engage in,” Sherry said. “We’re inter­ested in what the consumers do with the brand to create that brand. The [marketing] field is still trying to under­stand what makes for an iconic brand.” 
In addition to writing the journal article, the researchers also created a film in order to produce mul­tiple ways to understand American Girl Place. 
Sherry said working with researchers of different ages and ethnicities was also excit­ing because they brought dif­ferent perspectives on the problem. The other researchers are from Loyola University and DePaul University in Chicago, York University in Canada and Bocconi University in Italy. 
Sherry has taught at the 
University 
“Marketers create a product, but they don’t controll all the meanings associated with it; they don’t control the behaviors the consumers engage in.” 
John F. Sherry Marketing Professor 
of Florida, Kath oli eke Universiteit in Belgium, Chulalongkorn University Bangkok in Thailand and Northwestern University. He has been the Raymond W. & 
Kenneth  G.  
H  e  r  r  i  c  k  
Professor  of  

Marketing at the Mendoza College of 
experiences with the American Business at Notre Dame since Girl brand, Sherry said. 2005. 
“Marketers create a product, but they don’t control all the Contact Marisa Iati at meanings associated with it; marisa.s.iati.1@nd.edu 




GRACE KENESEY/The Observer Members of the Keenan Review perform at O’Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary’s College in 2010. 


Keenan 
continued from page 1 
use of the Stepan Center this fall. 
“We wanted to bring it back to Notre Dame,” director Grayson Duren, a junior, said. 
Riddle said this year’s Revue is titled “Keenan Revue: Too Big For Saint Mary’s,” and ticket distribution begins today at 4 p.m. at the gate three of the Joyce Center. 
Each student can bring two student IDs and get two tick­ets per student ID, Burley said. There will be 1,300 tick­ets per show, with three showings. Keenan residents will also receive tickets. 

Riddle said the Revue has been growing less offensive. 
“What surprises me is we were going into past scripts, and they were vulgar,” he said. “In our two years [work­ing with the Revue], it’s been much cleaner.” 
Duren said the jokes have become more clever. 
“We’ve been moving away from vulgarity because they’ve been censoring skits,” Nick Burley, Keenan Hall co-president and junior, said. “…The best thing you can do is find a balance between the two. Witty skits are just okay. Vulgar ones are hit or miss. Skits that strike the balance are the best.” 
Duren said the Revue has 26 to 28 segments, including two speeches, four songs per­formed by the band and 20 to 22 skits. 
Keenan residents create the skits and bring them to the Revue staff on tryout days, Duren said. After a few initial rounds, the remaining skits are brought before Keenan rector Fr. Dan Nolan. 
“If it’s someone’s idea, they’ll be in [the skit],” Burley said. “It’s neat. You usually see a skit all the way through the creative process to onstage.” 
The skits are put into a script, which is then censored by the rector, Riddle said. 
“[In 2009] there was one skit cut,” Riddle said. “No full skits were cut this year.” 
The musicians are all Keenan residents too. 
“There is a good array of music this year,” Riddle said. “Everyone is going to be happy about the two ‘exotic dancer’ songs.” 
The participants will be rehearsing through the week, Riddle said. 
Duren said the dancers take collections during the Revue for Keenan’s Hall Scholarship, which the rector distributes the funds to hall residents. Alumni donations fund approximately 80 percent of the Revue, which cannot be paid for completely by Student Activities Office fund­ing, Riddle said. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 



Punxsutawney Phil does not see shadow 

Associated Press 
CHICAGO — A fearsome storm spread a smothering shroud of white over nearly half the nation Wednesday, snarling transporta­tion from Oklahoma to New England, burying parts of the Midwest under 2 feet of snow and laying down dangerously heavy ice in the Northeast that was too much for some buildings to bear. 
Tens of millions of people stayed home. The hardy few who ventured out faced howling winds that turned snowflakes into face-stinging needles. Chicago’s 20.2 inches of snow was the city’s third-largest amount on record. In New York’s Central Park, the pathways resembled skating rinks. 
The storm that resulted from two clashing air masses was, if not unprecedented, extraordi­narily rare for its size and fero­cious strength. 
“A storm that produces a swath of 20-inch snow is really something we’d see once every 50 years — maybe,” National Weather Service meteorologist Thomas Spriggs said. 
Across the storm’s path, lonely commuters struggled against drifts 3 and 4 feet deep in eerily silent streets, some of which had not seen a plow’s blade since the snow started a day earlier. Parkas and ski goggles normally reserved for the slopes became essential for getting to work. 
“This is probably the most snow I’ve seen in the last 34 years,” joked 34-year-old Chicagoan Michael George. “I saw some people cross-country skiing on my way to the train. It was pretty wild.” 
Although skies were beginning to clear by mid-afternoon over much of the nation’s midsection, the storm promised to leave a blast of bitter cold in its wake. Overnight temperatures in the upper Midwest were expected to fall to minus 5 to minus 20, with wind chills as low as minus 30. 
The system was blamed for the deaths of at least a dozen people, including a homeless man who burned to death on New York’s Long Island as he tried to light cans of cooking fuel and a woman in Oklahoma City who was killed while being pulled behind a truck on a sled that hit a guard rail. 
Airport operations slowed to a crawl nationwide, and flight can­cellations reached 13,000 for the week, making this system the most disruptive so far this winter. A massive post-Christmas bliz­zard led to about 10,000 cancel­lations. 
In the winter-weary Northeast, thick ice collapsed several struc-

Associated Press 
PUNXSUTAWNEY, Pa. — The country’s most famous groundhog predicted an early spring Wednesday but wasn’t willing to go out on a limb to forecast whether his state’s Pittsburgh Steelers will win the Super Bowl. 
Punxsutawney Phil emerged just after dawn on Groundhog Day to make his 125th annual weather forecast in front of a smaller-than-usual crowd in rural Pennsylvania who braved muddy, icy conditions to hear his han­dlers reveal that he had not seen his shadow. 
Including Wednesday’s forecast, Phil has seen his shadow 98 times and hasn’t seen it just 16 times since 1887, according to the Punxsutawney Groundhog Club’s Inner Circle, which runs the event. There are no records for the remaining years, though the group has never failed to issue a forecast. 
Two years ago, Phil’s forecast also acknowledged the Steelers’ Super Bowl XLIII win the night before. This year, Sunday’s game was mentioned in the forecast but no winner was predicted between the Steelers and the Green Bay Packers, who meet in Dallas for Super Bowl XLV. 
“The Steelers are going to the Super Bowl,” Mike Johnson, vice president of the Inner Circle, said just before the forecast was read, drawing cheers from the clearly partisan crowd gathered on Gobbler’s Knob, a tiny hill in this borough of about 6,100 residents some 65 miles northeast of Pittsburgh. 
The Groundhog Day celebration is rooted in a German superstition that says if a hibernating animal casts a shadow on Feb. 2, the Christian holiday of Candlemas, winter will last another six weeks. If no shadow was seen, legend said spring would come early. 
In reality, Pennsylvania’s prophetic rodent doesn’t see much of anything. The result is actually decided in advance by 14 members of the Inner Circle, who don tuxedos and top hats for the event. 




Winter storm strikes US 
tures, including a gas station canopy on Long Island and an airplane hangar and garages near Boston. In at least two places, workers heard the struc­tures beginning to crack and nar­rowly escaped. 
In Middletown, Conn., the entire third floor of a building failed, littering the street with bricks and snapping two trees. Acting Fire Marshal Al Santostefano said two workers fled when they heard a cracking sound. 
“It’s like a bomb scene,” Santostefano said. “Thank God they left the building when they did.” 
More than a half-dozen states began digging out from up to a foot of snow that made roads treacherous and left hundreds of thousands of homes without power. 


U.S. government responds to events in Cairo 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Confronted by scenes of bloody chaos in Cairo, the White House on Wednesday challenged Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak to show the world “exactly who he is” by quickly leading a peaceful transition to democracy. 
An Egyptian official com­plained that the U.S. was press­ing for Mubarak’s swift depar­ture even as President Barack Obama publicly urges an order­ly transition. “There is a clear contradiction between an order­ly process of transition and the insistence that this process be rushed,” said the official, who was speaking for his govern­ment but said the government would not allow his name to be associated with the statement. 
“Now means now,” White House spokesman Robert Gibbs said, and he declared anew that continued aid to Egypt would be influenced by the Egyptian gov­ernment’s response to the crisis. 

Senate votes on health care 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — The Republican drive to repeal the year-old health care law ended in party-line defeat in the Senate on Wednesday, leaving the Supreme Court to render a final, unpredictable verdict on an issue steeped in political and constitutional controversy. 
The vote was 47-51. 
Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell said the vote marked an opportunity for Democrats who voted for the bill last year “to listen to those who have desperately been trying to get your attention.” 
Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., said the Republican repeal movement would “take away a child’s right to get health insurance and instead give insurance companies the right to use asthma or dia­betes as an excuse to take away that care.” 
“It would kick kids off their parents’ health insurance,” Reid said. “It would take away seniors’ rights to a free well­ness check.” 
According to the Congressional Budget Office, the law in question would expand coverage to tens of millions who lack it, crack down on insurance industry abuses and cut federal budget deficits. At its core, the bill would require most Americans to purchase insur­ance, a so-called individual mandate that has become one of the principal points of opposition among Republicans and the tea party activists who propelled them to gains last fall. 
The law that passed a year ago had the support of 58 Democrats and two independ­ents aligned with them. All 40 Republicans voted against it. 
While the U.S. has not directly called for Mubarak to resign — the protesters’ chief demand — Gibbs was echoing Obama’s public call one night earlier for an immediate and orderly tran­sition to democracy in Egypt. Instead the images on TV were of a brutal clash between pro­testers and Mubarak support­ers. 
“If any of the violence is insti­gated by the government, it should stop immediately,” Gibbs said, while declining to specu­late whether the Egyptian gov­ernment was in fact behind the violence. Protesters contended plainclothes police were among the pro-Mubarak groups. 
The White House had attempt­ed to nudge Mubarak to the exits, dispatching former U.S. Ambassador Frank Wisner as a special envoy to deliver the mes­sage to him. But by Wednesday, Wisner was on his way back to the United States. 
The White House said it had had no indication that such vio­lence was in the offing when Obama and Mubarak had spo­ken frankly Tuesday night. The Egyptian president announced on television that he would not seek re-election in September, but protesters want him out now. 
With Mubarak’s grip on his country in doubt, Obama’s team is evaluating scenarios of what may come next. But the conflict underscores the limits of the American president’s power to shape the outcome. 
For example, State Department spokesman P.J. Crowley acknowledged the hardline Muslim Brotherhood is “a fact of life in Egypt” and might play a role in the nation’s transition. U.S. officials haven’t met with members of the organ­ization though they’ve spoken to other opposition groups, Crowley said. 
Obama has spelled out what Egypt’s transition to free elec­tions should look like, but he has refused to say whether Mubarak should be in charge all the while. Obama has spoken to Mubarak and telephoned fellow world leaders to try to bolster stability in the region, but he cannot stop violence in the streets of Cairo. To the degree Obama has spelled out conse­quences of inaction to Mubarak, the White House will not say much publicly. 
Obama also is trying to find a balance between responding appropriately to events without being sucked up in hour-by­hour reaction. Gibbs said history was being made, and “this is not all going to be wrapped up in a matter of hours. It’s going to take some time.” 
Thousands of supporters and opponents of Mubarak battled in Cairo’s main square on Wednesday, throwing stones, bottles and firebombs as sol­diers stood by without interven­ing. The fighting started when several thousand Mubarak sup­porters, including some riding horses and camels and wielding whips, attacked anti-govern­ment protesters. 
Gibbs didn’t directly answer when asked whether Obama viewed Mubarak as a dictator, saying the Egyptian president had a chance to show who he was. Mubarak has been an important ally to the U.S. during his 30-year reign, ensuring pas­sage through the Suez Canal and maintaining peace with Israel. But for many Egyptian people, these have been years of corrosive poverty, repression and corruption. 
Gibbs said the U.S. expects that whatever government comes into power will respect the treaties entered into by pre­vious Egyptian governments — a clear reference to Egypt’s peace agreement with Israel, which has provided an impor­tant measure of stability for the region. 
American officials are keen to promote an ordered transition that safeguards Egypt’s status as a powerful American ally in the Middle East, instrumental in promoting Arab-Israeli peace, countering Iran’s growing influ­ence and fighting terrorism. 

The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, February 3, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Super Bowl storytime 
Somewhere, there is always a story to be told. As an aspiring journalist this is something that I hold dear. I could write a feature story about any one of you reading this column (yes, all five of you), because there is something inter­esting that makes you tick. So here in this space, as America’s unoffi­cial holiday approaches (aka Super Bowl Sunday) I will Andrew tell the stories of Gastelum people that I 

Sports 
have never met, 
Production 
so that you feel 
Editor 
like you just did. 
Every fan thinks they know the story behind Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers. His story is being the guy who followed the legend. But what you may not know is how he even got the opportunity. Coming out of high school, Rodgers received as many Division I football scholarships as I did. Zip. 
So he continued his dream, playing for Butte Community College in northern California, where Cal coach Jeff Tedford noticed him and brought him back to the Bay Area. But the funny part was that Tedford wasn’t there to recruit Rodgers, but Butte’s tight end. Rodgers simply tagged along for the ride. And what a ride it has been. I guarantee that if you told that community college coach that his gunslinger would one day be starting in the Super Bowl he would have bet his house against it. 
Do I even need to tell the troubled story of Rodgers’ opposing quarter­back? 
Well maybe of one of his receivers then — a key contributor in the Steelers’ third Super Bowl trip in six years. At first glance, Hines Ward seems like the standard guy walking down the street at 6-feet tall. But check his fingers because he already has two Super Bowl rings, built by a reputation as one of the league’s toughest. But his story is a bit more complicated, being born in South Korea to an African American father and a Korean mother. In school Ward was a loner, denied by the Koreans for being African American and shunned by the African Americans for being Korean. But he found sol­ace in football, going on to a 13-year career in the NFL while missing only six games in his career. 
From one receiver to another, Packers wide-out and consummate hard worker Donald Driver is a fan-favorite around the league. But few know that as a kid, he sold drugs on the streets of Houston to provide for his family. Football brought him out of this life, relying on a simple imper­ative to get him to the NFL: Make it. 
This piece could go on forever, but since we are snowed in, try reading up on Clay Matthews, James Harrison and Tramon Willams. Because for these guys who take the field Sunday, a childhood dream that was never supposed to come true will be fulfilled. Who said there is no such thing as a happy ending? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 

The new digital revolution 
While I was basking in the Carribean sun, jet-setting the world and such over break, I had an epiphany. At the airport, on the bus and aboard the boat, children were playing with their parents’ (maybe even their own) iPhones and iPod touches. Not the New Moon crazed tweens, but 4-to 8-year-olds who barely grasp the concepts of basic arithmetic. It is 

Mark Easley 
difficult to impos­sible to teach 
Elephant in 
anyone over the 
the Room 
age of 65 how to use a computer, but these little rugrats can operate quite a complicated technology with ease. Then it hit me, as it has hit other financial analysts and tech gurus. We are entering the next great tech boom. 
Smart phones and tablets are con­stantly being advertised to us in the media for good reason. They bring instant connectivity in an easy to use and portable interface. This is strangely reminiscent of the early per­sonal computer days, with all the excitement of the early internet boom. What’s still keeping people back, but not for long, is the price. Data plans and the hardware are expensive right now and not everyone can afford a pretentious Apple product or 3G, 4G and G-string data plans. But the mass­es want access to these products and more and more device makers and 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
service providers will answer the call to create better products for a cheap­er price. 
The all-knowing and ever-prevalent internet is the big enabler of this new tech boom. What we are seeing is the drive to cloud computing and wireless connectivity. All data is stored and processed centrally and distributed to simpler machines for display and con­trol via the network. It is now very easy to locate a wireless router, even in the most mundane places, and data coverage for phones is getting better every day. You see, the reason I don’t own a smartphone is because it is cheaper to run a basic cell phone and I get all the connectivity I need from my netbook. I recently switched over to netbooks from powerful gaming laptops because of the portability and the price,and they are great for class. Now with these newer and even more portable touch screen tablets, some­times referred to as slates or pads, easy access to the web can be attained anywhere with some wireless signal. With the vast majority of daily tasks being web based, what more could you ask for? Tablets also provide a more comfortable format than a pock­et-sized hand-held device, although many will opt for the convenience of being able to easily carry around a link to the net in their pocket. 
There are many applications for these technologies that will allow them to be successful and widespread. The educational benefits are enor­mous. Imagine children being able to carry around a tablet in elementary school that can have access to net­work based educational apps, to improve learning and knowledge gath­ering. Even high school and college students will be able to carry around their light and portable devices to classes. As software continues to migrate to the Cloud, you will be able to do everything you can do now on your computer from a tablet or smart phone. Word processing, email, docu­ment viewing, presentations, image editing, video streaming, gaming and even a virtual desktop and software development tools can be accessed quickly and easily. Easy enough an 8­year-old could figure it out. 
The price of these new tech devices will decline as competition and effi­cient production methods further develop in the near future. I foresee basic but very functional models will become as affordable as current net­books in a few years, especially with the more frequent use of open source software. This will be a real game changer because even more people all over the world will have access to the Cloud and compete in the global mar­ket place. We may even begin to see the decline of traditional phone use in the U.S. as VoIP calls become more widespread with the inevitable lower­ing of data plan prices. 
It’s not too late to change your major to Computer Science and Engineering. It is quite an exciting time in the field. 
Mark Easley is a junior majoring in computer science. He can be reached at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
Who do you want to win the Super Bowl? -Green Bay Packers -Pittsburgh Steelers Who do you think will win the Super Bowl? -Green Bay Packers -Pittsburgh Steelers 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“If you tell the truth you don’t haveto remember anything.” 
Mark Twain 
U.S. novelist 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 
Thursday, February 3, 2011 page 9 
After the blizzard, peace 
That turbulent blizzard, once passed, left behind such a peaceful scene. 
We all like to think of Jesus as a man of peace. One of our archetypal images of Jesus, dating all the way back to the prophecies of Isaiah, is the 
Fr. Lou DelFra 
Prince of Peace. 
And, in fact, when Jesus Faithpoint walked our earth, he indeed preached peace. He preached peace between peoples — “Those who live by the sword shall die by the sword” and “You shall forgive 70 times seven times.” He preached and promised peace within the hearts of those who would follow him 
— “Come to me, all you who are labored and carry heavy burdens. And your souls shall find rest.” 
Jesus was a man of peace. And yet, even a cursory reading of the Gospels raises one inescapable problem. 
In the Gospels, it is impossible to miss that Jesus’ life was often anything but peaceful. In fact, just the opposite — Jesus’ life was a life of chaos and commo­tion. In one passage, so many people crowded to hear Jesus that he was forced to get into a boat and teach from off­shore, because he was afraid of being crushed. Another time, after Jesus began healing people, so many sick people came to see him and tried to touch him that four men had to lower a paralytic through the roof to even get near him. Still again, after he had preached into the early evening, Jesus needed to feed a crowd of 5,000 people who had come to hear him. 
These are hardly the stories of a person who lived a peaceful daily life. Rather, he surely understood the feeling, “I’m over­whelmed! I’m being pulled in a hundred directions!” 
And yet, we also know that Jesus was a man of deep peace and centeredness. Which raises an interesting question for us, who are plenty busy ourselves: How does Jesus pull it off? How does Jesus stay centered, and interiorly peaceful, in the midst of a hectic and demanding daily life? 
Here are four answers that come to me as I read the life of Jesus in the Gospels. 
The first answer comes when I cannot avoid how many times the Gospels men­tion that “Jesus withdrew to a solitary place to pray.” Praying is perhaps the most frequently cited activity of Jesus in the Gospels. Jesus had a privileged rela­tionship with the Father, as the Father’s only Son. As John’s Gospel tell us, “In the beginning, he was with God; he was God.” Still, when Jesus became human, he con­stantly needed to “withdraw to a solitary place to pray.” Clearly, if we wish to lead lives of peace, there is no shortcut around the human need to pray. 
Second, I find it notable that, in none of the four Gospels, does Jesus call his first disciples later than chapter five. (And it is only this late in Matthew and Luke, who include infancy narratives, when Jesus 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

couldn’t call disciples for the good reason that he didn’t know how to talk yet!) From the beginning of his hectic public ministry, Jesus surrounds himself with friends who, like him, were hungry to find God at work in their lives and who supported Jesus in his mission. 
Jesus had a busy life, but he did not face it alone. This is an important lesson in leading peaceful lives. It can be a hard lesson in our culture. We inhale individu­alism like oxygen. We like to get things done on our own. But perhaps it’s no coincidence that we’re also often fried, or we’re constantly tired, or we quickly lose patience with others. Jesus lived a life at least as hectic as ours. But he did not live it alone, and he lived it in peace. 
Third, as regards his daily work — a frequent robber of our peace — we can see that Jesus, though he’s constantly and tirelessly laboring for the mission, under­stands his work almost exclusively in terms of the good it is accomplishing for others. He thinks about his life primarily in terms of service. If we spend too much time thinking about how much energy we’re expending, or forget the other-cen­tered goals for which we are laboring, our work can leave us self-absorbed and, ulti­mately, burnt out, or searching for a deeper meaning to live. Regarding his daily work, Jesus stays focused on the good he is doing for others, and this seems to increase his energy for the mis­sion, not drain it. Consciously understand­ing our work as service to others is an act of inner peace. 
Finally, to the extent that Jesus does focus on himself, it is almost always in recognition that his life is in the hands of his Father. He stays in touch with his firm belief that his life is unfolding providen­tially. This trust in God’s Presence centers Jesus, brings him peace, even in the most stressful of situations. Whatever is being asked of him — to deal with a crowd or to be in solitude, to heal a blind man or to be unable to perform a miracle because of the people’s lack of faith, to be enthusias­tically received or to be rejected, to preach the Sermon on the Mount or to stand silent before Pontius Pilate — all these things could be accomplished peacefully, because he believed that all these things were unfolding in God’s Providence, in God’s plan for his life. Trust in Providence brings with it the gift of peace. 
The life of Jesus reveals a way — through prayer, through friendships-in­faith, through a life of other-centered service, through a trust in Providence — that can turn even the most turbulent storms of our souls into long, snow-tucked quads that speak to us only of peace. 
This week’s column is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, ACE director of Pastoral Life and campus minister. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 
Effects of Arab riots on Israel 
Demonstrations all across Egypt have erupted against the government. In Lebanon, protestors have flooded the streets calling for a new govern­ment and Tunisia remains in a politi­cal turmoil. Arabs across the 
Nuseir Yassin 
Middle East are taking things 
The Harvard 
with their own 
Political 
hands asking for 
Review 
freedom of choice. And free­dom they shall get, but what will be the cost of freedom to the Arab-Israeli conflict? 
It is no mystery that the stagnant waters of the Arab world have become violent. Countless antigov­ernment protestors are rising and calling for a democratic system that would offer them better living condi­tions. With more than 25% of the Egyptian population under the pover­ty line, drastic reforms are much needed. 
However, economic incentives are not the only motives behind such protests. The political agenda of Arab presidents has been met with nation­wide disapproval. To be more pre­cise, many Arabs, Egyptians especial­ly, want to cut ties with Israel and help out their Palestinian brethren by opening up the borders and voiding the Israeli peace treaty. Husni Mubarak has ignored such requests for the sake of political and economic stability with Israel. He realized that adhering to the nation’s request by confronting Israel could potentially backfire and overthrow his govern­ment. He submitted to foreign-made pressure and to his own personal interests. 
Now that riots are ubiquitous in Cairo, Mubarak’s 29.35 year-long trek is nearing its end (see my prior blog post). In addition to building a better economy, Egyptians will be constructing a different foreign policy that could affect the ongoing peace process between Israel and Palestine. As to how this new policy is going to affect the situation, I don’t know. One thing is for sure though: Israel will no longer depend on full cooperation from the Egyptian end. Now that Israel is dealing with millions of Arabs instead of handful leaders, it must step back and weigh its actions accordingly. 
Overthrowing any Arab government in the Middle East is dangerous for the status quo. Now, I realize that democracy in Egypt and any other Middle Eastern country is necessary. However, people should be extremely careful with their new foreign policy choices, as this could lead to more Middle Eastern conflicts. War is never the answer for the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. We’ve seen many of them take place in the Middle East, and unfortunately, Palestinians suffer more with every war. As riots contin­ue, we must practice self-restraint and wisely choose our next steps when it comes to foreign policies. 
Despite all of the risks mentioned above, I support an Arab world free of greedy dictators. I used to be ashamed of my Arab roots because we were many led by few. We were intelligent, yet we specialized in demeaning manual labor. We were consumers, but tomorrow we’ll be innovators. 
This article first appeared in the Jan. 30 edition of The Harvard Political Review, the daily publication serving Harvard University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 



Scene
page 10 Thursday, February 3, 2011 
Toes on the Nose/In Euphoric CompanyLegends10 p.m. - 12 a.m.Free with ND/SMC/HCC ID 
Two student bands take the stage at Legends. Last year’s Battle of the Bands winner Toes on the Nose follows In Euphoric Company, a trio made of up Sacramento natives that gets regular play on WVFI and has been making the rounds in the indie-music blogosphere. 
McGlinn Casino NightSouth Dining Hall10 p.m. - 1 a.m.$5 
Welcome to fabulous South Bend, home of McGlinn Hall’s sig­nature event. All students are wel­come to enter the Texas Hold ‘Em tournament or take a few rounds at the blackjack tables -playing with paper money, of course. The fake cash can be turned in for the raffle. If you don’t like gambling, then there’s nothing like dancing in left-left of South Dining Hall. 
Flannel Formal Oak Room of South Dining Hall10 p.m. to 1 a.m.$5 
Blizzard got you freezing and feeling cabin-feverish? Pull on some snuggly flannel and snow­shoe up to the Oak Room on the second floor of SDH. The “barn dance,” sponsored by the Texas and Minnesota clubs, promises to be a warm and ironic good time. 
“The Girl Who Kicked the Hornet’s Nest” Browning Cinema3 p.m.$3 for students, $4 for senior citizens, $6 general public 
The final film in the Millenium trilogy concludes DPAC’s week­end marathon of all three origi­nal Swedish adaptations of the bestselling books. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 


By LAUREN HENDERSON 
Scene Writer 
Looking for something to do off Notre Dame’s campus this weekend? This Friday, venture out into down­town South Bend for 
long, on 
stay open late to showcase art exhibitions and live perform­ances. Various restaurants and stores also have menu 
and  shopping  spe - 
cials.  
February’s  First  

Friday will take place Friday from 5 -9 p.m. The theme for this month’s events is “Fit and Fabulous.” Restaurants will be offering prizes for customers who order healthy food options in order to encourage a healthier lifestyle in 2011. Certain restau­rants will also be hand-
late into chances to win nutrition and other health-related prizes as well. 
Galleries such as Artpost (216 West Madison Street) and CircaArts Gallery (528 East Colfax Avenue) will have special exhibitions open to the public. Artpost’s exhibit, “CUBA ¡PRESENTE!: Cuban posters from the collection of Gerrie Casey and Paul Mishler” will be on view until Feb. 
27. This exhibition displays graphic Cuban posters from the second half of the 20th century. At CircaArts, you can watch local artists working live 


and in person as they create wintery scenes of local landscapes in pastel. The opening reception for this show, called “Let It Snow,” will take place Friday. 
The South Bend Museum of Art (120 South St. Joseph Street) will be 
hosting an event called “Meet Me in the Gallery” from 5 -8:30 p.m., where you can mingle and enjoy food and drink while listening to a live band. Over 450 artworks by junior and senior high school students selected to be included in the 2011 
on display in the Most of the First events are free of charge, but there is a reduced cost of $5 for admission 
to “Meet Me in the Gallery” (free for museum members). Additionally, Bombay 
International (119 
South Michigan Street) will be host­ing a tea tasting of 
various Chinese teas, and 
the Friends of the St. Joseph County Library will be hosting a book sale (333 South 
Michigan Street) from 4 -8 
Catch live music at C.J.’s Pub (236 S. Michigan Street) or at Café (105 East Jefferson Boulevard), both 
more events 
listed here. Also, the downtown Transpo trolley route will be avail­able for free during the events. To see a full listing of events, go to http://www.dtsbfirstfridays.com/event s.htm 
Contact Lauren Henderson at lhender1@nd.edu 
LAUREN KALINOSKI I Observer Graphic 




Photos courtesy of Asheville Citizen Times, Vernon Hills H.S., Servite H.S., Whitney Gray and Bishop Dwenger H.S. Graphic illustration by Blair Chemidlin 
COMMENTARY 



NSD may actually hold an influence 
I traditionally ridicule National Signing Day. Watching football players barely three years younger than me play with baseball caps — or even a sweatered bulldog this year — seems inherently pointless. 
Yet this past season I con­fronted a very difficult real­ization: Freshmen 

Douglas Farmer 
really do affect the direction of 
Sports Editor 
a program. 
My biggest quarrel with this day of teenage glorifica­tion has always focused on the vast inaccuracy of most recruiting rankings and pro­jections. A 22-year-old’s phys­ical and mental characteris­tics often bear no resem­blance to his appearance four years prior. 
Yet today’s descriptions of Everett Golson and George Atkinson, of Ishaq Williams and Aaron Lynch will still be very much accurate in September. And, as hard as this is for me to admit, fresh­men matter. 
A year ago, few Notre Dame fans were overjoyed at Tommy Rees’ early enroll­ment. TJ Jones slid beneath most people’s radar as well. Yet it is nearly impossible to imagine this past season, or even the Sun Bowl victory, without those two contribu­tors. 
Freshmen matter. 
Thus, Wednesday’s recruit­ing haul, 23 recruits full, brings great promise for Notre Dame fans for the next four years, beginning in seven short months. 
Last February, Irish coach Brian Kelly only had weeks to piece together his first Notre Dame recruiting class. Given the circumstances, Kelly and his staff did pretty well, but they all knew there was room for improvement. 
With a full year under their belt, the Irish coaches showed how much room for improve­ment there was. 
Kelly received 18 faxes with signatures on them Wednesday. Combine those with the five recruits who have already enrolled in classes this semester, and the class of 23 recruits includes: six of ESPN’s final top-100 recruits, headlined by No. 15 Aaron Lynch, a four-star defensive end. ESPN rates the Irish class as No. 12 in the country, but those rankings are often skewed by over-signing and sketchy handlings by other programs — another set of reasons I have always despised this college football holiday. 
But Kelly and his staff did not resort to any of those ille­gitimate tactics in racking up this talented class. Instead, defensive coordinator Bob Diaco boarded a red-eye flight to Brooklyn, N.Y., to arrive at Ishaq Williams’ doorstep at 4:30 a.m. Upon Diaco’s arrival, Williams — the seventh-ranked defensive end in the country — can-celled a planned official visit to Penn State and committed to Notre Dame. Four days later Williams took his first classes on campus, opting to enroll for the current semes­ter and gain a few extra months under Diaco’s tute­lage. 
Williams and Lynch are only the head-liners of a group of defensive linemen that will most likely define this recruiting class. Lynch, who did waffle back-and-forth concerning Notre Dame before eventually joining Williams as an early enrollee, will likely line-up opposite Stephon Tuitt, hailing from Georgia, at many points in his career. 
Tuitt briefly decommitted from Notre Dame to turn his eyes toward Georgia Tech in January. Some schools would have shrugged their shoul­ders and signed three more defensive ends. Some schools would have bad-mouthed Tech to Tuitt. Notre Dame did neither. Instead, Kelly, Diaco and a few other coaches boarded a plane the next day on a trip to the Peach State to remind Tuitt why he ever looked to the Golden Dome in the first place. Their success led to his Tech commitment only lasting a brief period. 
Tony Springmann, Chase Hounshell and Brad Carrico complete the grouping of defensive linemen, though at least one of them — most likely Williams — will eventu­ally move to an outside line­backer position, a la junior Darius Fleming. 
Irish fans have not seen a position-in-need so quickly stocked with depth since the early days of Lou Holtz. Yet those six linemen simply show the true strengths of Kelly’s recruiting. In Diaco’s 3-4 defense, only three defen­sive linemen are on the field at a time, yet he and Kelly managed to convince six of these players to come in at the same time. Whatever the Notre Dame coaching staff is selling these days, these recruits bought. 
As did dual-threat, four-star quarterback Everett Golson, who switched his commitment to the Irish from North Carolina in December, both Josh and George Atkinson — heralded twins from Oregon 
— and four-star wide receiver DaVaris Daniels, who so badly wanted to come to Notre Dame he essentially put his recruiting process on hold while he raised his grades and test scores. 
Next season these freshmen will have a chance to posi­tively or negatively affect the Irish season. Given the descriptions of them today, it seems they will affect that season positively. 
Hence, maybe National Signing Day isn’t all that bad, at least when it benefits Notre Dame. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily The Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Kelly hopes recruits improve ‘D’ 

By ERIC PRISTER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Irish coach Brian Kelly said he and his coaching staff went into the recruiting season with a plan 
— improve on the defensive line. By adding six players listed at that position, including two ranked in the top-5 defensive linemen by most experts, Notre Dame followed through on that plan. 
“I really would like to say that the plan came together,” Kelly said. “We had a plan, and that’s clear. I think I spoke at this press conference last year and said ‘listen, in 2011, our focus is the edge of our defense, it’s defen­sive linemen, it’s speed, it’s length.’ And we hit that. We had a plan and it’s nice when a plan comes together like it did with this recruiting class. And now the next step is what we believe we’re really good at, and that’s developing these young men.” 
Kelly said recruiting defensive players is key for any team, sim­ply because of the nature of the game. 
“You can’t fake it on defense,” he said. “You can fake it a little on offense. Defensively, you have to win the one-on-one matchups. Sometimes you can not block the defensive end and option him. Sometimes you can do things with misdirection. But on defense, it’s about players mak­ing plays, and you can’t hide there. So the recruiting efforts start with the defensive line, and they work out from there. You can’t fake it on defense — you have to be able to recruit the players.” 
The recruiting process was dif­ficult for the Irish coaches, both emotionally and physically. Fourteen states are represented in Notre Dame’s recruiting class of 2011, more than any other class in the country. 
“If you take a look at the major BCS programs, their recruiting five or six states, and that’s a lot,” Kelly said. “Just look at the nation and how they recruit compared to the 14 different states. I think Stanford is the only other school that even comes close to recruiting that many states. 
“In just two months time I put up over 15,000 miles in terms of air travel and 55 hours in the air. It just requires a lot of time. And you can’t just have six guys recruiting. You can’t have six really good position coaches and three professional recruiters. All nine at Notre Dame have to recruit, and I think that you’ll see that all nine of our coaches played a very important part of putting this class together.” 
The Irish coaching staff trav­eled the country following recruits, but they had one clear message to present — come to Notre Dame if you want to be at Notre Dame. 
“I think you really have to be able to sell the message of Notre Dame,” Kelly said. “It’s really clear. Number one, you would come to Notre Dame for a degree, and what that does for you. That’s number one, so the player has to have a connection there. If they have no value of a degree from Notre Dame, move to the next guy. Number two, he’s coming to play for Notre Dame, and to win championships at Notre Dame. That has to be clear, that he’s coming here, and he’s going to be part of a team at the University of Notre Dame. And three, that he wants to be developed — physically, socially, spiritually, in his skill. Those are the three things that we stayed with as our bullet points, and we did not waver from those three things. We didn’t promise playing time. We didn’t promise 10 national championships. We did-n’t promise anything. We told them, ‘This is what we’re about, and this is what you’ll get if you come to Notre Dame.’” 
Committing to Notre Dame also requires some flexibility. Kelly and his coaching staff sepa­rate players into three different categories rather than traditional positions — ‘Skill,’ which includes quarterbacks, running backs, wide receivers and defen­sive backs, ‘Big Skill,’ which includes fullbacks, tight ends and linebackers, and ‘Power,’ which includes offensive and defensive linemen. Kelly said that most players are not turned off by the potential that they will end up at a new position, as long as com­munication stays consistent. 
“Once we’re able to communi­cate what we’re doing and how we’re doing it instead of listening to someone else who knows more sometimes about our sys­tem than we do — which is absolutely ridiculous — as long as we get an opportunity to show you what our plans are for you and continue that message, we’re fine. Most of these young men, they want to be in the best position to help the team win. And obviously each of these young men that we have on this roster, they have dreams too, about getting a degree and play­ing in the NFL, and that’s fine. I want those kind of guys. So I think it’s less about ‘no, I’m only this.’ And when we do get that, that sends up a bit of a red flag for us. And that doesn’t mean we’re going to drop him, but it sends up a bit of a red flag.” 
Because high school positions are not as important for the Irish coaching staff, they have more flexibility to attract players of the same position. Kelly said that an overabundance at a single posi­tion, defensive line for instance, is not a problem. 
“I just want the very best play­ers,” he said. “That will all sort itself out very early in the process. I don’t think it’ll be two or three years down the road. I think it sorts itself out very quickly. I know that we’ve got a great understanding of our play­ers, even in this one year, more than anything else, we know where our guys will best fit our program. So I’m very confident that in a very short period of time, a lot of this will take care of itself. If your assets are on the defensive line, that’s a good place to start, and that’s where we’ll start. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 



Groundhog’s Day Class a new standard at Notre Dame 








With a class consisting of seven Top-150 recruits according to ESPN, the Irish signed an impressive class filled with talent, and more importantly, one that addressed spe­cific needs moving forward. Irish coach Brian Kelly’s goal was to strengthen the edge of his defense, and six defensive end recruits, including Top-150 signings Aaron Lynch, Ishaq Williams and Stephon Tuitt, does just that. 
Williams will likely move to outside line­backer, as will four-star recruit Ben Councell. Lynch and Tuitt lead the group who will continue playing with their hand on the ground, but will face competition from fellow four-star defensive lineman Anthony Rabasa. 
On the opposite side of the ball, the Irish signed four offensive linemen, including four-star-rated Matthew Hegarty. In the future, they will likely be blocking for dual-threat quarterback Everett Golson, whom looks to fit nicely into Kelly’s spread offense. 
Notre Dame also signed solid targets for Golson, including four-star wide receiver DaVaris Daniels and four-star tight end Ben Koyack. Daniels could fit in nicely in the slot while Koyack has the body and ball skills to join Notre Dame’s line of NFL caliber tight ends. 
Other significant recruits include three-star athlete George Atkinson and his broth­er Josh, a defensive back, three-star run­ning back Cam McDaniel, six-foot-six Troy Niklas, who could play offensive line, defen­sive line or tight end, and kicker Kyle Brindza, who the Irish had pegged as the top kicker in the 2011 recruiting class. 















ND survives chaotic period 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
As up and down as Notre Dame’s season was on the football field, it may have fluctuated even more on the recruiting trail. 
There were commitments, decommitments and, rarest of all, recommitments leading up to National Signing Day Wednesday, when the Irish signed 23 new players to join the team next fall. 
Mike Frank, who covers recruiting for the ESPN-affili­ated website Irish Sports Daily, said the arrival of Irish coach Brian Kelly gave Notre Dame an immediate bump at the beginning of the recruit­ing process. 
“Any time you get a new coach in, you’re going to get a lot of intrigue by a lot of prospects,” Frank said. 
Before the season even started, Kelly used the buzz surrounding his arrival to land a number of elite prospects, including four-star defensive end Aaron Lynch, who committed July 30 dur­ing his official visit to Notre Dame. That same day, the Irish also landed three-star linebacker Anthony Rabasa and four-star running back Justice Hayes. When the sea­son kicked off, Kelly already had 15 players verbally com­mitted. 
“[Notre Dame] had a great run in the summer of getting a lot of elite players commit­ted,” Frank said. 
After early-season strug­gles — including losses to Michigan, Michigan State and Stanford — Frank said some players began to waver in their commitment to Notre Dame. 
“Those three in a row were tough for anybody to stomach and that kind of started to show the cracks in the armor,” he said. 
The Irish still landed a big commitment from four-star defensive end Stephon Tuitt. Wins against Boston College, Pittsburgh and Western Michigan got the Irish back on track and seemed to assuage the minds of poten­tial recruits — at least, until their now-infamous 35-17 loss to Navy in the Meadowlands. 
“Notre Dame obviously turned around and played pretty well there for three games, and then Navy hap­pened,” Frank said. “I think a lot of the top kids started to have some doubts about where the program was headed.” 
In the month that followed, both Lynch and offensive lineman Jordan Prestwood switched their commitment to Florida State and Hayes flipped to Michigan. At his National Signing Day press conference Wednesday, Kelly said Lynch’s early commit­ment made it easier for opposing teams to negatively recruit against Notre Dame. 
“They knew their competi­tion,” Kelly said. “When [Lynch] committed to us, everybody in the country knew who they had to work against. They didn’t have to work against Auburn or Florida or Miami, they just had to beat Notre Dame because he committed to Notre Dame.” 
The Irish bounced back, though, winning their final four games and allowing just three touchdowns in the process. 
“Kids focus on wins,” Kelly said. “That’s definitely part of the equation here. Winning helps in this process.” 
After the season ended, the Irish secured commitments from four-star quarterback Everett Golson and made up for the loss of Hayes by snag­ging three-star running back Cam McDaniel. 

“[McDaniel] is a kid who wants to win more than any­thing,” Frank said. “He’s the type of guy who’s going to push everyone in front of him. He’s one of those guys that’s going to really surprise a lot of people once he gets there.” 
Notre Dame’s stretch run apparently caught Lynch’s eye, as well. At the Army All-American game Jan. 9, he decommitted from Florida State, but said Notre Dame was not under consideration. A week later on Jan. 15, though, he took an official visit to South Bend, recom­mitted to the Irish and began classes as an early enrollee just a few days later. 
“Our staff just kept at it and we got back to why he made this decision to come to Notre Dame in the first place and we’re happy he’s here,” Kelly said. 
The same weekend Lynch recommitted, Kelly and his staff were hard at work securing a pledge from five-star linebacker Ishaq Williams. Williams was down to Notre Dame or Penn State, and was set to take an official visit to State College on Jan. 15, but the night before, Irish defensive coordinator Bob Diaco reportedly visited Williams in his Brooklyn home at 4:30 a.m. and not only got him to cancel his trip to Penn State, but got a ver­bal commitment on the spot. Like Lynch, Williams enrolled early and is already taking classes at Notre Dame. 
“When Bob Diaco came and visited him at the last minute, I think that’s where [Williams] said, ‘These people really, really want me and this is a good thing for my future,’” Frank said. 
Kelly said Diaco’s early-morning visit was not the only time the staff went to great lengths to land Williams. He said defensive line coach Mike Elston once sat in his car outside Williams’ home for 4 ½ hours waiting for Williams after one of his high school playoff games. 
Just as it looked like things were slowing down for Kelly and his staff, they got one last scare from Tuitt. The defensive end had been tak­ing visits to other schools and Jan. 18 switched his commit­ment to Georgia Tech. Kelly, Diaco, Elston and recruiting coordinator Chuck Martin immediately flew down to Tuitt’s home in Monroe, Ga., and, the next day, Tuitt recommitted to the Irish. 
“Having [four coaches] there was really, for us, mak­ing a statement and making sure that what we were talk­ing about and what he saw when he came to Notre Dame and what his family saw was really the truth of the matter, and sometimes you have to overcommunicate that mes­sage,” Kelly said. “We had four coaches there to make sure that message was clear.” 
Now that all 23 letters of intent are signed and received, the drama of the 2011 recruiting cycle has finally come to a close. 
Contact Sam Werner swerner@nd.edu 




Five recruits already adapting to college life 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
While most of Notre Dame’s 23 recruits will join the Irish this summer, five made the choice to leave high school early and enroll in classes this spring. 
Quarterback Everett Golson, kicker Kyle Brindza, linebacker Lynch had originally committed to Notre Dame over the sum­mer, but switched to Florida State for a brief time in January before recommitting to the Irish. 
Brindza, who committed to Notre Dame last spring, origi­nally attempted to enroll an entire year early in order to compete for kicking and punt­ing duties on the 2010 team. 

Ishaq Williams and defensive linemen Aaron Lynch and Brad Carrico are taking classes at Notre Dame and will par­ticipate in spring football practi ces, which begin March 23. 
“These young men get this opportuni­ty to really 
“The football element is big, but the assimilation into being a Notre Dame student is really what [enrolling early] is about.” 
Brian Kelly Irish coach 
understand Notre Dame and the rigors of the classroom, the community, being in the dorms, finding South Dining Hall, understanding all those things before they have to play in the fall,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. 
Lynch, a four-star recruit, and Williams, a five-star recruit, both committed just days before the spring semester began on Jan. 18. Williams committed Jan. 14 and Lynch on Jan. 15. 
However, Notre Dame admis­sions declined his request. 
Enrolli ng early allows players extra time to work out with the team and learn the Irish play­book, which could translate into opportuni­ties early in the fall season. 
This could be especially criti­
cal for Lynch and Carrico, who are among six defensive line­men to sign with the Irish in 2011. 
“You would think that with the number of guys who can play that position, somebody might break through at that position. But it’s so hard,” Kelly said. “The guys that are going to be here, the five guys that are here, they’ve got a shot too, because we’ve got a chance to evaluate them against ... Zach Martin, Taylor Dever ... guys that have played quality compe­tition. 
“But I would say that there’s a lot of defensive players that are going to get a chance to com­pete.” 
The extra time will also give Golson, this year’s only quarter­back recruit, a chance to estab­lish himself next to quarter­backs Tommy Rees and Dayne Crist, Kelly said. 
“I think it becomes pretty clear that Tommy Rees and Everett Golson are two different quarterbacks relative to the style,” Kelly said. “I think what you’ll see is Tommy Rees and most likely Dayne Crist and the other quarterbacks fit into that category. And then on the other side of the ledger you’ll have Everett Golson.” 
Of the five freshmen who enrolled early in 2010, three saw significant playing time this season. 
Rees played in nine games and started four after junior quarterback Dayne Crist had season-ending surgery. He led the Irish to consecutive wins over Utah, Army, USC and Miami in the last four weeks of the season. 
Wide receiver T.J. Jones earned a starting position in fall camp, and started seven of the 12 games in which he played. He scored a touchdown in each of his first two games, against Purdue and Michigan, becoming the first freshman to accom­plish such a feat. He finished the season with 23 catches for 306 yards and three touch­downs. 
Cornerback Lo Wood played in 11 games. 
“The football element is big, but the assimilation into being a Notre Dame student is really what [enrolling early] is about,” Kelly said. 
Contact Laura Myers lmyers2@nd.edu 


The Observer 



Scene
Thursday, February 3, 2011 page 11 

LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 
NBA 

Drexler expects London team 
Associated Press 
LONDON — NBA great Clyde Drexler can foresee a league franchise being based in London, maybe even within the next decade. 
“Clyde the Glide,” in the British capital to help promote the first regular-season NBA games to be played in London in March, said Wednesday that basketball has proven itself in Europe and expansion to the continent may just be a matter of time. 
“If the demand continues, that could actually happen,” Drexler told The Associated Press. “We’re probably 10 years or so away, but that is not too farsighted to happen.” 
The NBA has played presea­son games in London for the past four years, packing fans into the O2 Arena. Late last year, the league decided it was time to emulate the NHL and NFL, both of which have played regular-season games in London. 
The Toronto Raptors and New Jersey Nets will play a pair of games at the O2 on March 4-5. 
“Basketball is a global sport,” said Drexler, who spent more than a decade playing for the Portland Trail Blazers. “There’s 
TENNIS 

a demand around the world, and David Stern our commis­sioner is trying to facilitate that demand.” 
And the distance, Drexler said, won’t be a problem for anyone. 
“Even games coming from Oregon to New York are far, but that never stopped anything,” Drexler said. “It’s about as far as New York to London. It’s all relative. Every team has a pri­vate charter. They can go all over the world.” 
One way to push the game to the soccer-loving public in Britain is NBA Basketball Week, a series of youth-oriented events that will take place in five cities leading up to the two games. 
“Fans from all over will get a chance to see what NBA action is all about,” Drexler said. “They’ll have a lot of clinics, jam sessions. That’ll be happen­ing daily.” 

Clijsters leads Belgians against U.S. 
Associated Press 
ANTWERP, Belgium — Her Australian Open trophy in tow, Kim Clijsters is leading a strong Belgian team against an injury -depleted United States in the Fed Cup this weekend. 
Belgium would have been an overwhelming favorite to reach the quarterfinals, but the sudden retirement of Justine Henin last week leaves the match more bal­anced against a U.S. team that has reached the last two finals without the injured Williams sisters. 
Clijsters, who beat Li Na for her fourth Grand Slam title last weekend, said Wednesday she still lacked sleep after her long trip home from Melbourne. However, she expects to be ready to play the opening singles Saturday on an indoor hard court. 
“I was able to make the switch real fast,” Clijsters said. 
Her Australian Open cup will be prominently displayed at the 12,500 -capacity Antwerp Sports Palace. 
Based on ranking, No. 48 Bethanie Mattek-Sands and No. 61 Melanie Oudin of the 
U.S. 
should be no match for No. 2 Clijsters and No. 26 Yanina Wickmayer. But the 

U.S. 
record in recent years shows the Americans haven’t needed the Williams sisters to advance. They reached the last two finals, losing each to Italy. 


Venus Williams is sidelined after injuring her groin at the Australian Open, while Serena has been out with a foot injury since Wimbledon. 
The U.S. team also includes Vania King and doubles spe­cialist Liezel Huber. 
“It’s almost as a family reuniting, these Fed Cup weeks,” U.S. captain Mary Joe Fernandez said. 
And facing a favorite, often away from home, no longer scares them. 
“It is always a challenge when you’re an underdog, but it is something our team real­ly thrives on, ” Fernandez said. “It brings out the best in our team.” 
The Belgians have already heeded the warning. 
“They perform great when they feel they are part of a team,” Clijsters said. 
Mattek-Sands already hit her groove early this season, helping the U.S. mixed team win the Hopman Cup. 
Clijsters is thriving in just about every situation these days. She made the final in Sydney before winning her first Australian Open crown, which puts her within reach of regaining the No. 1 rank­ing. 
Wickmayer suffered through a nasty cough and cold, losing in the second round in Melbourne. 
The Americans will be tar­geting the Wickmayer match on the opening day. After two singles on Saturday, there’s reverse singles and a possible deciding doubles on Sunday. 
The U.S. hasn’t won the Cup since 2000, a 5-0 win over Spain. 
NFL 

Matthews, Polamalu battle for better hair 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — Vince Lombardi surely would’ve loved to have Clay Matthews or Troy Polamalu on those great Packers teams of the 1960s. 
Their hair? Uhhh, that might’ve been a problem. 
At a Super Bowl where there’s been nearly as much focus on shampoos and condi­tioners as zone blitzes and passing schemes, one of Lombardi’s former players huffed at all the attention going to all that hair, from Polamalu’s out-of-control curls to Matthews’ stringy locks. 
Heck, one might think there’s a hair convention in town, not the biggest football game of the year. 
“Coach Lombardi didn’t like long hair and he didn’t like facial hair,” said Jerry Kramer, a Hall of Fame line­man for the guy whose name is on the Super Bowl trophy. 
“It would’ve been, ‘Comb your hair! Cut your hair!’ He wasn’t very shy about telling you that. We were all pretty trim and neat. We just didn’t have all that hair.” 
My, how times have changed. 
Polamalu and Matthews have such famous manes that each has landed his own shampoo endorsement deal. The Steelers safety pitches for Head & Shoulders when he’s not donning his helmet and shoulder pads, while the Packers linebacker recently landed an endorsement deal with Suave. 
They aren’t the only ones going hairy at this Super Bowl. There’s everything from dreadlocks to glorified mul­lets, with the league’s most famous beard thrown in for good measure. Brett Keisel has two Facebook pages dedi­cated solely to the Santa Claus-like growth on his face, and he plays right along when asked about how he takes care of all that hair. 
“There’s not much mainte­nance,” Keisel quipped. “I just comb it out every once in a while, brush the birds and squirrels out.” 
Jerry Johnson winces when he hears that kind of talk. He’s the lead instructor at the Aveda Institute of Dallas, where he teaches others how to style hair. 
“My goal is never to change people. I want them to be who they want to be,” Johnson said Wednesday. “My goal is to sort of polish the rough edges. He’s a good-looking man, with good features. If he wants to wear a full beard like that, let me shape it up for him. Right now, he looks like a homeless person.” 
Johnson invited Polamalu to come sit in his chair, as well. 
“I would love to get hold of that crazy, curly mess,” the stylist said. “Nobody has fig­ured out how to give him a haircut for that texture with­out it getting all big and frizzy.” 
Matthews and Polamalu, perhaps mindful of the endorsement dollars at stake, have played right along with all the queries about coiffures. 
The Packers star even doled out a little good-natured trash talk, without any fear of get­ting called for clipping. 
“Troy may have won defen­sive player of the year,” Matthews said. “But there’s no doubt that I’ve won best hair in the game on the defen­sive side. So I’m real happy about that. I think it’s a unani­mous decision.” 
Polamalu was more diplo­matic about his rival, noting that both attended college at Southern Cal. 
“There must be something in the water at USC,” he said, breaking in a grin nearly as big as his hair. “We’ll just call it even for now.” 
On media day, Polamalu dis­appointed by showing up with his hair pulled back tightly in a bun, far from the massive ‘do he’ll display in the game, the tresses spilling out from the back of his helmet in trib­ute to his Samoan heritage. 
When a reporter urged him to turn it loose, Polamalu declined. 
“This is my media day hair,” he said. “You must only come on Super Bowl days. If you were in Pittsburgh, this is how it is during the week.” 
Matthews is short on details when asked about Green Bay’s plans to stop Ben Roethlisberger and the Steelers’ rugged offense. There is no such hesitancy when asked what is more important: shampoo or condi­tioner? 
“You need shampoo, obvi­ously, to keep it clean. You can’t have it greasy and nasty out there on game day, espe­cially when you’re putting the helmet on,” Matthews said. “But the conditioner really seals the deal. If you can use a little conditioner, help lock in the moisture, keep the fly boys down, that’s really going to help you out.” 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  My apartment is infested with koala  Every time I go and shave, I  
FOR RENT  NOTICES  Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has  PERSONAL  bears.  assume there's someone else on the planet shaving. So I say, 'I'm  
many resources in place to assist  gonna go shave, too.'  
GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT  If you or someone you care about  you.  I think Bigfoot is blurry, that's the  Its the cutest infestation ever. Much  ————————————————  
RENTAL: House for rent for gradua­ has been sexually assaulted, we  problem.  better than cockroaches.  I bought a seven-dollar pen  
tion/JPW/weddings,football, etc.  can help.  If you or someone you love needs  because I always lose pens and I  
confidential support or assistance,  It's not the photographer's fault.  got sick of not caring.  
Perfect location-right next to the  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819.  Bigfoot is blurry, and that's extra  I turn the lights on and a bunch of  ————————————————  
new Eddy Street Commons-walk to  For more information, visit Notre  scary to me.  koala bears scatter.  I had a stick of CareFree gum, but it  
everything-safe family oriented  Dames website:  For more information, visit ND's  didn't work. I felt pretty good while I  
street.  website at:  There's a large, out-of-focus mon­ I'm like, come back!  was blowing that bubble, but as  
ster roaming the countryside.  soon as the gum lost its flavor, I was  
Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for  I want to hold one of you, and feed  back to pondering my mortality.  
additional info and photos  http://csap.nd.edu  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  Run, he's fuzzy, get out of here.  you a leaf.  - Mitch Hedberg  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ————————————————  

NFL 


Belichickwinsthird coach of year honor 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — Bill Belichick is closing in on Don Shula. 
The New England coach Bill Belichick won The Associated Press 2010 NFL Coach of the Year award on Wednesday, the third time Belichick has earned the honor. Belichick, who also won in 2003 and 2007, now trails only Don Shula, a four-time winner of the award. 
For leading the Patriots to a 14-2 record, the best in the league, Belichick received 30 votes from a nationwide panel of 50 media members who reg­ularly cover the NFL. That easi­ly beat Raheem Morris, who led a turnaround in Tampa Bay and got 11½ votes. 
Belichick has overseen a tran­sition in New England to a younger team, particularly on defense. Of course, he still has Offensive Player of the Year Tom Brady at quarterback. 
“I will say the foundation of the Patriots organization, which starts with Mr. Kraft and Coach Belichick, has not changed since the day I arrived,” Brady said. “They have and will always do what is in the best interest of the team, and they will continue to find selfless players that love to work hard, compete and strive to be the best they can possibly be.” 
Then Belichick makes them even better. 
“He really stays on top of us,” wide receiver Wes Welker said. “He makes sure that we’re not getting overconfident or believ­ing in the noise outside the locker room and understand that every game’s tough in the NFL.” 
Belichick’s record with the Patriots is 126-50, plus a 14-5 mark in the postseason, with losses in the last three tries with teams that went a collec­tive 40-8. His career winning percentage of .716 ranks eighth, tied with Hall of Famer Paul Brown, and no other coach has four 14-victory regular sea­sons. 
This might have been Belichick’s most impressive work as the Patriots retooled much of the roster, yet had a dominant regular season in which they won their final eight games. 
“When you have so many things that go into a team, so many things that go into what’s happened over the last decade, which ones do you point to?” he said. “You can make an argu­ment for a lot of different things. In the end, it’s each indi­vidual team and that collection of players that particular year and that particular time during the season or whatever it is, that was able to go out there and be successful.” 
Belichick basically rebuilt the defense, particularly the sec­ondary, where rookie Devin McCourty made the Pro Bowl. 
He showed confidence in BenJarvus Green-Ellis as his main running back, and Green-Ellis rushed for 1,008 yards. Belichick claimed Danny Woodhead when the Jets cut him, and Woodhead was a dynamic piece of the offense and special teams. 
Then there was the Randy Moss case. 
Eager to remove the recalci­trant receiver, Belichick stole a third-round draft pick from Minnesota in early October for Moss, who lasted a month with the Vikings, then was cut. 
Meanwhile, Belichick traded with Seattle for Deion Branch, the 2005 Super Bowl MVP with the Patriots. Branch had a rebirth in New England, making the Moss deal look even better. 
And making the Patriots a better team — typical of what Belichick has done since getting his second chance to be a head coach. The first was a flop with the Browns, where he went 37­45 in four seasons and alienat­ed nearly everyone in Cleveland. 
“When I chose him, people at the league office, people in this town, sent me tapes of him in Cleveland and said, ‘You don’t want to hire this guy,’ “ Patriots owner Robert Kraft said. “And, remember, he went 5-11 (in his first year with Patriots) and we gave up a No. 1 draft choice (to the Jets to get him). People thought we were nuts. 
“So I think that probably was one of the best decisions I’ve made in football.” 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Syracuse ends four-game skid at UConn 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. — Rick Jackson had 13 points and 13 rebounds to lead No. 17 Syracuse to a 66-58 victory 
over No. 6 Connecticut on Wednesday night and the Orange avoided the first five-game losing streak in coach Jim Boeheim’s 35 seasons. 
Brandon Triche had 16 points for the Orange (19-4, 6-4 Big East), who had lost four straight game under Boeheim three times before this streak. 
Freshman Jeremy Lamb had 22 points to lead the Huskies (17-4, 5-4), who have lost two straight — both at home — since a six -game winning streak. 
The game featured the most wins ever in Division I between two coaches. Boeheim came in with 847, seven more than Jim Calhoun, who is also a Hall of Famer. 
The 1,687 total bettered the mark of 1,665 set by Texas Tech’s Bob Knight and Oklahoma State’s Eddie Sutton on Feb. 25, 2006. 


NBA 


Sixers down Nets; Cavs lose 22nd straight 
Barnaky and got two quick from the left side with 1:08 
Associated Press 
technical fouls and was eject-left, forcing the Cavs to call a 
NEWARK, N.J. — Lou ed. timeout. Christian Eyenga Williams scored 26 points and Johnson walked off the court then hit a tough jumper to pull Jrue Holiday had 11 points, 11 to chants of "Avery, Avery, Cleveland within one, and assists and 10 rebounds for Avery" and former Raptors when Parker grabbed a miss his first career triple-double to coach and Nets assistant Sam by Granger, the Cavs seemed lead the Philadelphia 76ers to Mitchell ran the team for the to be in business. a 106-92 victory over the New rest of the game. But Parker's short shot in Jersey Nets on Wednesday New Jersey was able to cut the lane rimmed out, and night. the lead to single digits a cou-Granger was fouled. He made 
Jodie Meeks added 10 of his ple of times the rest of the both free throws to give the 15 points in a 14-2 third-quar-way, but Philadelphia always Pacers a 115-112 lead. On ter run that broke the game seemed to make a big play, Cleveland's next possession, open and led to the ejection of getting a three-point play and Sessions drove in the paint Nets coach Avery Johnson for a 3-point field goal from and drew two defenders arguing a non-call after point Williams late in the third before dumping the ball guard Devin Harris apparently quarter and a three-point play underneath to J.J. Hickson, was fouled by Elton Brand. by Evan Turner also late in the who fumbled it and the Cavs' 
Andre Iguodala added 16 third. chance slipped away. points and Brand had 15 and When the horn sounded, 10 rebounds for the 76ers, Pacers 117, Cavaliers 112 Cavs coach Byron Scott who won their fifth in six The Cavaliers' long losing dropped his head and a small games and beat the Nets for streak is almost history. but boisterous Cleveland the third time in as many Cleveland's slide reached 22 crowd headed toward the exits 14-2 before finally making the league’s best rebounding meetings this season. games — one shy of the NBA's and another cold ride home. their first field goal. But even team on the boards, 47-38, to 
Harris, Brook Lopez and single-season record — as The Pacers improved to 4-0 when Cleveland does some-win their fourth straight Kris Humphries all had 16 Danny Granger scored 23 this season over the Cavs, and thing right these days, it game. points for New Jersey, which points and Darren Collison Indiana won its second seems to backfire. Michael Beasley scored 19 lost for only the second time in added 22 to lead the Indiana straight under interim coach Cavs swingman Alonzo Gee points for the Timberwolves its last seven home games. Pacers to a win over the Frank Vogel, who replaced the powered down the lane and and Kevin Love had just 10 
Leading by nine at the half, Cavaliers, now winless in 2011 fired Jim O'Brien last week. delivered a powerful, two-points and 10 rebounds, nar-Philadelphia took command and losers of 32 of 33. Before the game, Vogel joked handed dunk that nearly sent rowly getting his 34th straight early in the third quarter Unless they can win on about not being well known some of his teammates on double-double. Love is hoping when Meeks and center Friday in Memphis, the Cavs outside the Pacers locker Cleveland's bench onto the to make the Western Spencer Hawes scored all the (8-41) will match the league's room. He went to lunch on floor. But Gee was slapped Conference All-Star team, but 
points in the big run that all-time mark for consecutive Wednesday with center Roy with a technical for hanging he was thoroughly outplayed turned a seven-point game futility, a record shared by the Hibbert and wasn't recog-on the rim, and the Pacers by Randolph, one of his pri­into a 69-48 laugher. 1995-96 expansion Vancouver nized. responded by going on a 15-3 mary competitors for a spot. 
Meeks started the run with a Grizzlies and 1997-98 Denver "People don't know who I run to open a 17-point lead. The Grizzlies limited Love to three-point play and a 3-point-Nuggets. am," Vogel cracked. "I'm not The Cavs didn't cave, four points on 1-for-4 shooting er, and Hawes hit an alley-oop The Cavs had several surprised. A number of folks though. in the first three quarters, on a pass from Holiday for a chances to pull out their first came up and asked for Roy's Manny Harris made a 3-opening up a 22-point lead 61-46 lead. win since Dec. 18, but autograph. I may as well have pointer with 3.9 seconds left in that turned the fourth quarter 
After Travis Outlaw scored Anthony Parker missed a run-been the ballboy. That's fine the quarter to cap an 18-6 run into garbage time. inside for New Jersey, there ner in the lane with 18.8 sec-with me." that pulled Cleveland within The Grizzlies are the best were couple of possessions onds left and Granger put it Cleveland has been beyond 59-54 at halftime. They were team in the league at forcing before Johnson got tossed for away by making four free bad of late. Before taking the within two to start the fourth, turnovers, and they feasted on the first time as the Nets throws in the final 17.1 sec-lead in the third quarter on and for a while, it seemed as if the mistake -prone coach. onds. Sessions' three-point play with it would finally be the Timberwolves all night. They 
Harris was trying to dribble Ramon Sessions scored 25 1:15 left, the Cavs had gone Cavaliers' night. scored 26 points off 17 
near the foul line and was points and Antawn Jamison more than 217 playing min-They're still waiting for it. Minnesota turnovers and stopped cold by Brand, who had 21 for Cleveland. utes without holding a lead. improved to a season-best two seemed to paw him with both The Cavs fought until the The Cavs' struggles and the Grizzlies 102, Timberwolves games over .500 (26-24). hands to the chest. end, something they rarely did remnants of the powerful 84 Beating the worst team in 
Replays showed Brand never while going 0-for-January. Midwest blizzard combined to Rudy Gay had 22 points, the West wouldn’t seem to be touched the ball and seconds This was better, but still not keep people away from seven assists and seven a big deal, but it actually was later Harris was stripped of good enough. Quicken Loans Arena in rebounds, and Zach Randolph a sign of progress for the the ball. Players on both teams Just like comic Bill Murray's droves. added 23 points and 13 boards young and improving stood and waited for a call. character in the movie, The 20,000-seat building to lead the Memphis Grizzlies Grizzlies. They have had a When none was made, "Groundhog Day," it was more was only about one-third filled to a victory over the tendency to play down to their Meeks went the other way for of the same on Groundhog Day and it didn't take long for Minnesota Timberwolves on competition this season, losing a layup. for the Cavs. those in attendance to lose Wednesday night. to Golden State, Washington, 
Johnson simply lost it and With the score tied 110-all, interest. The Cavs missed their Sam Young scored 18 points Cleveland, Sacramento and went after official Brent Collison drained a 3-pointer first 10 shots and fell behind and the Grizzlies dominated New Jersey twice. But this game was never in doubt. 

Memphis ripped off a 10-0 run midway through the first quarter and never trailed the rest of the way. 
Gay showed everyone why the Timberwolves tried to sign the restricted free agent this summer. The smooth small forward, who signed a max contract to stay in Memphis, did a little bit of everything, getting to the bucket, knocking down 3-pointers and scoring in transition. 
Randolph and Marc Gasol took care of Love down low, muscling him out off the block and rendering him obsolete for most of the game. 
The game featured a matchup of two of the NBA’s double-double machines in Love and Randolph. They are two of just four players in the NBA to average at least 20 points and 10 rebounds per game, but it was Randolph who had his way with it from the start. 
The burly Randolph had eight points and six boards in the first half, and more impor­tantly limited Love to just two points and four boards on the other end. 


NCAA BASKETBALL 


Indiana takes down second straight ranked team 
fourth, Jones, come off the 3 from the left wing. It hit the 
Associated Press 
bench with inflammation in his front of the rim, Indiana fresh-
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. — right knee. It was Jones’ first man Victor Oladipo grabbed the Suddenly, beating ranked oppo-game action since Jan. 20. rebound and cradled the ball in nents is becoming a regular And yet after watching his arms as time ran out. thing for Indiana. Minnesota (16-6, 5-5) cut a 16-“You’ve got to set the tone and 
Six days after snapping a 19-point lead to one with 3:05 to we didn’t do that,” coach Tubby game losing streak against Top go, the Hoosiers buckled down Smith said. “We weren’t doing 25 foes, the Hoosiers did it again and played the way coach Tom any of the little things. They Wednesday night — and this Crean expects. were outworking us and outhus­time the fans didn’t even storm “The accountability in the tling us, simple as that.” the court. huddle form player to player Indiana has now beaten two 
Juniors Tom Pritchard and was finally real,” Crean said. “It ranked teams in the same sea-Verdell Jones each scored 12 was direct, in the sense of son for the first time since 2007­points, and the Hoosiers led ‘We’ve got to finish this out.’ In 08, and the Hoosiers came with-from start to finish, holding off all those huddles at the end, all in one basket of sweeping three two second-half comebacks by they were talking about was fin-straight Top 25 games. They lost No. 18 Minnesota for a 60-57 ishing. When this team plays on 84-83 in overtime Sunday at No. victory. edge, and if they can continue to 25 Michigan State. 
“Last week’s win definitely develop belief, they’re going to Their next chance for No. 3, boosted our confidence. I think be really good.” something Indiana hasn’t done we got five straight stops at the Minnesota (16-6, 5-5) can since 2005-06, could come end of that game and we got a already see the difference. Tuesday night at rival Purdue. couple of more like that When these teams last met, How much has changed in a tonight,” Pritchard said. “I think Jan. 4 in Minneapolis, it was the week? we’ve grown into being a good Gophers who held on for a 67-After beating then No. 20 team.” 63 win. Illinois 52-49, students rushed career. That’s when Minnesota finally 
The Hoosiers (12-11, 3-7 Big This time, the Hoosiers never the court and Crean jumped up The Gophers were playing rallied. Hoffarber and Hollins Ten) still have plenty to prove, let Minnesota take the lead or in the air in the hallway. This again without point guard Al sparked an 11-4 run to get but they are making strides. even tie the score. time, Crean and his players Nolen and it showed. Minnesota to 39-34. Hoffarber 
On Wednesday, three of Austin Hollins missed the first went into the stands to high-five They struggled to get the ball finished with 15 points, while Indiana’s projected opening-day chance to tie it when he clanked fans. inside, opened the game just 3 Hollins had 13. starters — Maurice Creek (frac-a free throw with 3:05 to go. “Everybody’s on the same of 15 from the field and dug The Hoosiers, however, tured knee), Guy-Marc Michel Then, in the closing seconds, page now, and our communica-themselves into a 24-10 hole answered with an 11-0 run to (ineligible) and Christian Blake Hoffarber, Minnesota’s tion has gone way up,” midway through the first half. make it 50-34 with 9:48 left. Watford (broken hand) — were best 3-point shooter, had a Pritchard said after one of the At halftime, they still trailed 33-But the Gophers weren’t fin-dressed in street clothes. A chance to force overtime with a best games of his three-year 21. ished. 

NBA 

Durant’s dominance, 43 points lead Thunder over Hornets 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY — Kevin Durant continued a scoring tear with 43 points and 10 rebounds and led a key fourth-quarter run and the Oklahoma City Thunder beat the New Orleans Hornets 104-93 on Wednesday night. 
Durant eclipsed 40 points for the third time in four games, and he leads the NBA with five 40­point games this season. 
The league’s scoring leader hit two free throws, a jumper and a 3-pointer from the right wing, and then a driving foul-line jumper during a 10-2 run that put the Thunder in control mid­way through the fourth quarter. 
David West had 20 points and 15 rebounds and Chris Paul scored 15 points for New Orleans, which has lost three of four following a 10-game win­ning streak. 
The win put Oklahoma City a half-game ahead of the Hornets for fourth place in the Western Conference and clinched the sea­son series for the Thunder. 
The Hornets pulled out a 91-89 win against Oklahoma City just nine days earlier in New Orleans, with Paul coming up with a steal in the final 15 sec­onds that led to West’s winning basket. 
This time, Durant ensured there would be no late-game meltdown by the Thunder. 
His hot stretch extended Oklahoma City’s six-point lead to 98-84 with 5:44 to play, and the Hornets couldn’t mount a come­back. Durant scored 47 points at Minnesota and then 40 against Washington in back-to-back vic­tories last week that both went past regulation, and he shot 14 for 19 from the field in his latest scoring outburst. 
Jeff Green added 12 points and Serge Ibaka had eight points, 12 rebounds and six blocks as the Thunder bounced back from a loss to Miami on Sunday. Oklahoma City hasn’t lost back-to-back home games since December 2009. 
New Orleans’ David Andersen scored a season-high 13 points while helping to fill in for the injured Emeka Okafor (left oblique strain). The Hornets also lost Trevor Ariza to a sprained right ankle in the third quarter, when Oklahoma City turned the game around by outscoring New Orleans 32-17. 
Durant capped a personal 6-0 run by connecting on a fallaway jumper along the right baseline with 0.2 seconds left in the third quarter to put the Thunder up 81-72. 
Daequan Cook stretched the lead to 12 by opening the fourth with a 3-pointer from the right wing after Nick Collison had saved the ball in the opposite corner of the court. 
Willie Green and Andersen hit 3-pointers on back-to-back trips to get the Hornets within six, and the Hornets were back within 88-82 after Quincy Pondexter’s jumper on the left baseline before Durant put it away. 
The Thunder had a string of sellouts snapped but still drew 17,849 fans while crews were using construction equipment and dump trucks to clean snow off downtown streets after a rare blizzard dropped a foot of snow in some areas around the city. 
Paul was carried off the floor by two trainers, then limped to the locker room after rolling his left ankle on the top of Ibaka’s right shoe as he drove to the basket midway through the first quarter. 
The Hornets scored on just one of their next five possessions as Oklahoma City put together an 11-2 run and went up 25-18 after Collison’s jumper in the lane. 
Andersen scored 10 of New Orleans’ first 14 points of the second quarter to lead a come-more than nine points in a game back, and his jumper put the all season, then did it in a 6­Hornets back on top 39-38 just minute span against Oklahoma before Paul returned to the line-City. up. Andersen hadn’t scored Paul’s 3-pointer from the right wing started a 7-0 run by the Hornets, and New Orleans led 55-47 before Durant closed the first half with a jumper from the top of the key for the Thunder. 


“Especially when you are team members is a huge “The one thing about burn-
son-low 51 points. 
learning a new dive, it is likely advantage heading into Big 
Brey 
Grossman 
that you will get lost in the East championships. continued from page 20 to be patient and we have a 
ing it like that is that you have dive and end up landing on “In meets it is key that you 
continued from page 20 
your stomach which is of do not let nerves hold you squad that has not won a Big that,” Brey said. “It’s a very 
veteran group that believes in 
Grossman said whenever course painful but also funny.” back from going for a dive. East game in over a year, a drastic style of play which 
diving coach Caiming Xie Casey said that having such You have to be confident that streak going back 21 games to means less shots and touches 
attempts to give instruction, it a strong chemistry ultimately because you have practiced a a 51-50 win over Marquette but it just shows the belief that 
quickly becomes a highlight of increases the team’s confi-dive hundreds of times, you last January. But looking back this group has in the system.” 
practice. dence in one another. can nail it when it counts,” to last year’s defeat at the But DePaul looks to counter 
“Our coach is Chinese and “We love to joke around, but Grossman said. “Though a hands of winless Rutgers on the Irish’s slow-burn style of 
sometimes hard to under-we are also very motivating very individual sport, it is still the road, the Irish are looking play with the speed and versa-
stand, so some of the funniest when we need to be serious in important that teammates do to do nothing different from tility of their pair of freshmen 
stories of are times when a practice or meet,” she said. well because all the points are their big 56-51 road win in leading scorers, power for-
there were funny miscommu-“We gained a lot of momen-added together for the team Pittsburgh Jan. 24. ward Cleveland Melvin and 
nications between him and tum on training trip by getting score. Going into the Big East “Especially going on the guard Brandon Young. In last 
our team,” she said. behind each other and know-championships, it is important road, we want to leave it all on Thursday’s 71-60 loss to South 
“Sometimes we just have no ing everyone's times in prac-to have confidence in team-the floor, which was something Florida, Melvin led the team 
idea what he is talking tice which really helped build mates because every point that gave us the victory,” sen-with 17 points and four blocks 
about.” chemistry in the pool. With counts. It is going to be a ior guard Ben Hansbrough while Young added 11 points 
Even in the pool, the team is this strong team chemistry close meet, but we can win if said. and three assists. The size of 
sure to have a good time. our team gained confidence. everyone performs their best.” Hansbrough took control of the Blue Demons could pose 
“It is also funny when there When we are closer as a that game, outscoring trouble for the Irish as Melvin 
are some good smacks during team, we are more confident.” Contact Megan Golden at Pittsburgh (20-2, 8-1) 13-12 is paired up with six-foot­
practice,” Grossman said. Grossman said confidence in mgolde1@saintmarys.edu by himself in the final 10 min-eleven junior center Krys utes of the game, finishing Faber, who had 16 points and with 19 points and 7 assists. six rebounds in Tampa. Brey acknowledged Meanwhile, the Irish have 
Pfarr said Notre Dame has and of course they want to Hansbrough’s outstanding lost sophomore Mike 
become the standard of colle-win,” Pfarr said. “The only 

Pfarr 
play, and wants to continue Broghammer for the year after 
giate fencing and few schools thing you can do is prepare giving him the ball to take he struggled to stay healthy 
can really threaten the Irish. yourself before the match 
continued from page 20 
control of the game against with tendinitis in both knees. 
“There are very few schools both mentally and physically the Blue Demons. The power forward played 
He said they have done that can compete with Notre so you are able to overcome “Ben does a great job when sparingly in ten games this 
everything to achieve their Dame,” Pfarr said. any diversity you face on the we get the ball in his hands season, averaging 1.8 points 
goals. He also said being the top strip.” and let him make his reads,” and 1 rebound a game. 
“Our team goals are to dog does have its drawbacks. The fencing team will next Brey said. “It’s a luxury to The Irish look to continue 
dominate NCAAs, maintain a The team knows their oppo-be in action this weekend at have a guard who can just their three-game win streak 
demanding training schedule nents will be very motivated the Northwestern Duals in make decisions at the end of while the Blue Demons look to 
and continue to represent and give their best effort. Evanston, Ill. the clock like that.” break theirs tonight at Allstate 
Notre Dame as a tier one “You treat every bout like it Against Pittsburgh, Notre Arena. The game will be tele­
competitive sport both on and is separate from the others. Contact Joe Wirth at Dame took advantage of its vised on ESPN at 9 p.m. 
off the strip,” Pfarr said. Each opponent is different jwirth@nd.edu slow-burn offense, rushing the Panthers into taking shots Contact Andrew Gastelum at while holding them to a sea-agastel1@nd.edu 

Dame.” Atang, a double major in sci-

Atang 
ence pre-professional studies continued from page 20 and anthropology, eventually 
worked her way onto the squad. up to this point in the current Within a few years, she indoor season, as well. She won emerged into one of the pre­the Notre Dame Invitational, at mier throwers in the confer-a distance of 14.94 meters, in ence. addition to placing second in But Atang had to break the Bob Eubanks Open (14.26 through a potential set back meters) and third at the Indiana this offseason. She needed to Relays (15.10 meters). have surgery on her ankle after 
The strong performances she doctors discovered her tibia had has shown the past two seasons extra bone growth. Her expect-have earned the praise of her ed recovery time was a mini-coach. mum of eight weeks. She was 
“Rudy has been our best working out again within four. thrower in the shot put the last Currently, Atang believes she couple of years,” Irish coach is nearly fully recovered. Tim Connelly said. “She should “I think pretty much now I’m be a Big East scorer [again].” back to normal, surprisingly,” 
While Connelly and the rest of she said. “I don’t really have the Irish have benefitted from any problems with it.” Atang’s presence, they almost Now, in her final year and never had the opportunity. The with the surgery behind her, Irish did not pursue Atang out Atang has big expectations for of high school, and she nearly herself this season. went to school elsewhere, “I expect obviously to score before deciding to attend Notre again,” she said. “And one of Dame on a hunch. my biggest goals is to hit 50 feet 
“I was actually getting (15.24 meters), which I’m very, recruited by Rice University, very close to. It’d be great if I go and Notre Dame wasn’t recruit-well beyond that.” ing me,” Atang said. “But last minute, for some reason, I just Contact Sam Gans at decided to come to Notre sgans@nd.edu 


Coyne 
continued from page 20 
Coyne and her staff changed their approach to recruiting to achieve a diverse roster. 
“In 2005, we went 3–12, the next year we went to the final four,” Coyne said. “In between that time, my practice and recruiting philosophy changed.” 
This turn-around from club team to successful varsity sport included the program’s first ever Big East championship in 2009, and continues as the 2011 Inside Lacrosse preseason media poll ranked Notre Dame 10th. Coyne recognizes the importance of such national exposure to recruiting. 
“I think a part of you wants to be recognized, we always want to be one of the best in the country,” she said. “Kids play­ing lacrosse in junior high see that (preseason ranking) and they know about Notre Dame.” 
With such success comes a higher standard, a fact Coyne said her staff is doing a better job communicating to high school seniors. 
“We’ve been doing a good job letting them know, so when they get here they know what the expectations are,” she said of freshmen new to the pro­gram. “From a lacrosse stand­point, we are getting top play­ers.” 
A group of seven, six of whom have been regular contributors since their freshman year, the senior class is highlighted by team captains Shaylyn Blaney and Jackie Doherty. 
“Both are exceptional play­ers,” Coyne said of her senior captains. “More than that, though, those two represent the senior class’s commitment to the program.” 
The rest of Notre Dame’s ros­ter has also shown similar com­mitment to Irish lacrosse, Coyne said. 
“We have a really good reten­tion rate,” she said. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
NHL 
Franzen scores five as Wings roll 
OTTAWA — Johan Franzen scored five goals and the Detroit Red Wings sent Ottawa to its eighth straight loss by beating the Senators 7-5 on Wednesday night. 
The Senators (17-27-8) have lost 14 of 15 and haven't won a home game since beating Pittsburgh on Dec. 26. 
Kris Draper and Niklas Kronwall also scored, and Jimmy Howard made 29 saves for the Red Wings. It was Detroit's first visit to Ottawa since October 2008. 
Milan Michalek scored twice for Ottawa, and Peter Regin had a goal and two assists. Chris Campoli and Alex Kovalev also scored for the Senators. 
Robin Lehner was pulled mid­way through the second period after allowing four goals on 19 shots in his first home start. 
Brian Elliott allowed two goals on 19 shots in relief. 
The Senators took a 1-0 lead on Kovalev's power-play goal, but Franzen scored twice in 48 seconds to put Detroit ahead. 
Ottawa retook the lead when Regin and Campoli both scored their second goals of the season. 
After a slow start to the sec­ond period the Red Wings scored twice in a span of 13 sec­onds to go back in front. Lehner made two great saves, but couldn't stop Draper on the third attempt as he beat the rookie over the shoulder. 
On the ensuing play, the Red Wings took control and contin­ued to pressure Ottawa deep in its end before Nicklas Lidstrom found Kronwall at the blue line. Kronwall drilled a shot through traffic and beat Lehner through the legs. 
That marked the end of Lehner's night. The home fans didn't appreciate the goaltend­ing change as Elliott, who has lost his last 11 starts, was soundly booed. 
Franzen completed his hat trick with a power-play goal 30 seconds into the third, beating the Elliott to the short side. 
The Senators tied it 5-5 just 29 seconds later when Michalek scored his second of the night. 
Back-to-back penalties gave the Red Wings a two-man advantage for 68 seconds, and they made the most of it as Franzen scored his fourth of the game to make it 6-5. 
The Senators appeared to tie it again with just under eight minutes remaining, but the goal was disallowed on the ice. The call was then confirmed by video review. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Gay nails jumper to push Aztecs to win over Colorado St. 
Associated Press  then hauled in inbounds pass as  the long the buzzer  and Kawhi Leonard posted his 32nd career double-double with  the free throw line, where they were just 14-of-22.  postseason tournament. Ogide’s two free throws tied it  
FORT COLLINS, Colo.  — D.J.  sounded and his teammates  12 points and 15 boards for the  Andy Ogide scored 18 points  at 52 with 4:21 remaining fol- 
Gay sank a jumper with 1.8 sec- mobbed him.  Aztecs (22-1, 7-1 Mountain  and  pulled  down  a  dozen  lowing back-to-back baskets by  
onds left to lift seventh-ranked  Travis  Franklin’s  driving  West), who got quite  a scare  rebounds for the Rams, who  Franklin. Billy White’s short  
San Diego State past Colorado  layup for Colorado State had  from the Rams (15-7, 5-3).  haven’t beaten a top-25 oppo­ jumper put San Diego State  
State 56-54 Wednesday night.  tied  it  with  10.1  seconds  Colorado State might have  nent  since  upsetting  25th-back on top 54-52 two minutes  
Gay, who has a reputation for  remaining.  pulled off the upset had they  ranked Air Force in the 2004  later after a series of stops by  
coming through in the clutch,  James Rahon scored 15 points  not been so off-the-mark from  Mountain  West  Conference  both teams.  


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  
12  13  14  
15  16  17  
18  
19  20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  31  32  
33  34  
35  36  37  
38  39  40  
41  42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  
52  
53  54  55  

CROSSWORD 
Across 
1 Dull shade 4 Road caution 7 Place for a 
hammer 12One in on the founding of a 
company 15River of York 16Record label of 
the Beatles' “Ain't She Sweet” 
17Spy sent byMoses into Canaan 
18Production site chief 19Wonder of note 21Yes ___ 23One getting a bouquet? 28Makes fun of 31Profess 
32It flows near the Piazzale Michelangelo 
33Workplacewhere there are many openings 
35Sorento and Sedona 36“Our Gang”approval 
37Plentiful 
38Song played atthe school dance in “Back to the Future” 
41Kind of year:Abbr. 
42Chinese for “black dragon” 
45Officially 
49Schubert's “Eine kleine Trauermusik,” e.g. 
501996 GwynethPaltrow title role 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

51River in a 1957 hit film 52Warning tointruders 
53Young fish thathas migratedfrom the Sargasso Sea 
54Rubble maker,for short 55Some Windows systems 
Down 
1 Rent-___ 
2 Synagogues 
3 Attacks 4 Cholesterol 
medication 5 Helper's offer 6 Sea menace 7 Certain pie
toppers 8 Big bug 9 Fit 
10Thomas Moore's “___ Ask the Hour” 
11 Eye, to poets 13Some passport
applicants 14It's all the same 20Something that's
stamped 22Green 24Town on Lake 
Geneva oppositeLausanne,Switzerland 
25Too: Fr. 26Hydroxylcompound 27Setting for“Coriolanus” 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
WILL SHORTZ 
Puzzle by Joe Krozel 
28One may be 36Song words 43Kind of situation running over accompanying 
44Award 
time “Sherrie” and “Susanna” 45Half-wit 
29Headquarters for 
39Nervous laugh 46Airing Polynesian 
40 Enter an Ivy 
Airlines League school, 47Pre-___ (take 30Schnapps flavor maybe the place of) 31Legal cases? 41Many a French 48Pad 
business partner 
32Judo maneuvers 49Ft. Myers-to­
42 “The Suze ___34Highlander Show” Orlando dir. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

PLEASANDVILLE 
JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 


JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
MYKOS  

 
 
 
 
 

©2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
BEDRY  

 
 
 
 
 

TULFAY  

 
 
 
 
 
 

EBONGY  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Answer: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: GOOSE OCCUR MARTIN INCOME Yesterday’s 
Answer: What she used to buy the ripest apple — COMMON “CENTS” 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

BIBLE
Jumble
o:
http://www
.tyndale.com/jumble/ 
 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports
Thursday, February 3, 2011 page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish travel to DePaul for Big East matchup 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
In the midst of the biggest blizzard of the year, No. 8 Notre Dame has taken the nation by storm, especially after ending No. 2 Pittsburgh’s 20-game home winning streak with a 56-51 victory. 
But it’s not yet time for cele­bration. The second-place Irish (17-4, 6-3 Big East) have their eyes set on winning the Big East title and that comes with winning more games on the road, starting tonight with DePaul after a nine-day break. 
“This break came at a really nice time for a veteran team who have been logging a lot of minutes,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “It’s good to rest and then get back out there for a big stretch.” 
Waiting for them is a strug­gling, DePaul (6 -14, 0-8) 
see BREY/page 18 
Title thoughts 

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Guard Ben Hansbrough splits two Marquette defenders during an 80-75 victory over the Golden Eagles Jan. 22 in Purcell Pavilion. The Irish travel to DePaul tonight. 
FENCING 
Pfarr stays involved with Irish 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
Due to other commitments, including ROTC and academ­ics, senior Chris Pfarr has not fought in a match for the Irish this season. But even though he has been less involved in this year’s team on the strip, he still leads and supports off of it. 
“My individual goal is to graduate. I am taking 23 cred­its and doing everything I can to stay afloat and have fun senior year,” Pfarr said. “I live with four other fencers and try to support them when they need it. With this up coming weekend I will be there to support my team and watch them kick [expletive].” 
He said that the team has high expectations every year and this year is no different. 
see PFARR/page 17 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Team chemistry, confidence keep swimmers balanced 
their iPods, which play on “Over training trip in Hawaii Grossman added that as long out and watch the game.” 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
speakers above the water. our team decided to go out to a as there is food at a team gath-When the team is not eating
Sports Writer 
“Our team is usually singing restaurant and sing karaoke,” ering, the team members will or singing, they can usually be and dancing to all the songs,” Maxwell said. “After some be present. found laughing or joking with 
While the 20-plus hours senior swimmer Samantha pretty hilarious performances “We have team dinners most one another. spent in the pool each week Maxwell said. “This year our our team got a standing ova-nights after practice, but we “This year we have had lots have enhanced individuals’ team constantly sings ‘If I tion from the restaurant.” will also occasionally all get of funny experiences as a team. performances, it is song, food Could Turn Back Time’ by Cher Senior swimming captain together at one of the seniors’ Usually bus rides get pretty and laughter that highlight and ‘It's All Coming Back to Me Katie Casey pointed out the off-campus houses to order funny, especially with Delia team bonding and strengthen Now’ by Celine Deion. We also best karaoke performance. pizza and watch a movie,” Cronin serenading the team this Irish team’s chemistry and occasionally sing ‘Chicken “We were obviously crowd Grossman said. “Last semester, from the back row,” Maxwell confidence in one another. Fried’ by Zac Brown Band and favorites,” she said. “[Senior] we frequently got together to said. “[But] most of the time it 
During practice the team is ‘Voices’ by Chris Young.” Lauren Parisi and [senior] have football game watches. is just girls getting caught in either listening to music on the Christmas break provided the Delia Cronin’s version of ‘Proud Everyone would bring some-the moment, joking around.” underwater radios in Rolfs team with an opportunity for Mary’ was the highlight.” thing to one of the seniors' Aquatic Center or singing to some karaoke. Senior diving captain Heidi houses and we would all hang see GROSSMAN/page 17 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Coyne builds solid program 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
It turns out the football team isn’t the only Irish squad that casts a national recruiting net. Irish coach Tracy Coyne has recruited effectively over the past several years, successfully stocking the cupboards in each class. 
Boasting players from 12 states and England, Coyne gives some credit for this suc­cess on the recruiting trail to the spread of lacrosse to all parts of the country 
“With each class, we have an even mix numbers-wise, and we have a good geographic mix as well, which I like,” she said. “It’s indicative of how lacrosse is spreading.” 
see COYNE/page 18 

ND TRACK AND FIELD 
Atang looks for strong Big East appearance 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
The track and field career of Irish senior shotputter Rudy Atang did not begin quite as she anticipated. 
Atang attended her first practice in fifth grade, and was planning on participating in the track portion of the sport. After a few instructions given from the coaching staff, however, she quickly changed her mind. 
“I actually wanted to be a runner, but then the coaches [told] all the runners [to] go run a mile and a half,” Atang said. “I decided, ‘no, I don’t want to run a mile and a half, so I’ll go over with the throw­ers.’” 
Luckily, for her and the Irish, she stuck with that choice. 
Last season, Atang was one of the top throwers in the Big East. She placed ninth in the shot put in the conference’s indoor championships, with a distance of 14.19 meters. She then improved her mark in the Big East’s outdoor champi­onships, with a throw of 15.02 meters, her best of the season. It was good enough for her to finish seventh, as well as score team points for Notre Dame with her top-eight finish. 
Atang has continued to excel 
see ATANG/page 17 



Photos courtesy of Asheville Citizen Times, Vernon Hills H.S., Servite H.S., Whitney Gray and Bishop Dwenger H.S. Graphic illustration by Blair Chemidlin 
COMMENTARY 
NSD may actually hold an influence 
I traditionally ridicule National Signing Day. Watching football players barely three years younger than me play with baseball caps — or even a sweatered bulldog this year — seems inherently pointless. 
Yet this past season I con­fronted a very difficult real­ization: Freshmen 

Douglas Farmer 
really do affect the direction of 
Sports Editor 
a program. 
My biggest quarrel with this day of teenage glorifica­tion has always focused on the vast inaccuracy of most recruiting rankings and pro­jections. A 22-year-old’s phys­ical and mental characteris­tics often bear no resem­blance to his appearance four years prior. 
Yet today’s descriptions of Everett Golson and George Atkinson, of Ishaq Williams and Aaron Lynch will still be very much accurate in September. And, as hard as this is for me to admit, fresh­men matter. 
A year ago, few Notre Dame fans were overjoyed at Tommy Rees’ early enroll­ment. TJ Jones slid beneath most people’s radar as well. Yet it is nearly impossible to imagine this past season, or even the Sun Bowl victory, without those two contribu­tors. 
Freshmen matter. 
Thus, Wednesday’s recruit­ing haul, 23 recruits full, brings great promise for Notre Dame fans for the next four years, beginning in seven short months. 
Last February, Irish coach Brian Kelly only had weeks to piece together his first Notre Dame recruiting class. Given the circumstances, Kelly and his staff did pretty well, but they all knew there was room for improvement. 
With a full year under their belt, the Irish coaches showed how much room for improve­ment there was. 
Kelly received 18 faxes with signatures on them Wednesday. Combine those with the five recruits who have already enrolled in classes this semester, and the class of 23 recruits includes: six of ESPN’s final top-100 recruits, headlined by No. 15 Aaron Lynch, a four-star defensive end. ESPN rates the Irish class as No. 12 in the country, but those rankings are often skewed by over-signing and sketchy handlings by other programs — another set of reasons I have always despised this college football holiday. 
But Kelly and his staff did not resort to any of those ille­gitimate tactics in racking up this talented class. Instead, defensive coordinator Bob Diaco boarded a red-eye flight to Brooklyn, N.Y., to arrive at Ishaq Williams’ doorstep at 4:30 a.m. Upon Diaco’s arrival, Williams — the seventh-ranked defensive end in the country — can-celled a planned official visit to Penn State and committed to Notre Dame. Four days later Williams took his first classes on campus, opting to enroll for the current semes­ter and gain a few extra months under Diaco’s tute­lage. 
Williams and Lynch are only the head-liners of a group of defensive linemen that will most likely define this recruiting class. Lynch, who did waffle back-and-forth concerning Notre Dame before eventually joining Williams as an early enrollee, will likely line-up opposite Stephon Tuitt, hailing from Georgia, at many points in his career. 
Tuitt briefly decommitted from Notre Dame to turn his eyes toward Georgia Tech in January. Some schools would have shrugged their shoul­ders and signed three more defensive ends. Some schools would have bad-mouthed Tech to Tuitt. Notre Dame did neither. Instead, Kelly, Diaco and a few other coaches boarded a plane the next day on a trip to the Peach State to remind Tuitt why he ever looked to the Golden Dome in the first place. Their success led to his Tech commitment only lasting a brief period. 
Tony Springmann, Chase Hounshell and Brad Carrico complete the grouping of defensive linemen, though at least one of them — most likely Williams — will eventu­ally move to an outside line­backer position, a la junior Darius Fleming. 
Irish fans have not seen a position-in-need so quickly stocked with depth since the early days of Lou Holtz. Yet those six linemen simply show the true strengths of Kelly’s recruiting. In Diaco’s 3-4 defense, only three defen­sive linemen are on the field at a time, yet he and Kelly managed to convince six of these players to come in at the same time. Whatever the Notre Dame coaching staff is selling these days, these recruits bought. 
As did dual-threat, four-star quarterback Everett Golson, who switched his commitment to the Irish from North Carolina in December, both Josh and George Atkinson — heralded twins from Oregon 
— and four-star wide receiver DaVaris Daniels, who so badly wanted to come to Notre Dame he essentially put his recruiting process on hold while he raised his grades and test scores. 
Next season these freshmen will have a chance to posi­tively or negatively affect the Irish season. Given the descriptions of them today, it seems they will affect that season positively. 
Hence, maybe National Signing Day isn’t all that bad, at least when it benefits Notre Dame. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily The Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Kelly hopes recruits improve ‘D’ 

By ERIC PRISTER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Irish coach Brian Kelly said he and his coaching staff went into the recruiting season with a plan 
— improve on the defensive line. By adding six players listed at that position, including two ranked in the top-5 defensive linemen by most experts, Notre Dame followed through on that plan. 
“I really would like to say that the plan came together,” Kelly said. “We had a plan, and that’s clear. I think I spoke at this press conference last year and said ‘listen, in 2011, our focus is the edge of our defense, it’s defen­sive linemen, it’s speed, it’s length.’ And we hit that. We had a plan and it’s nice when a plan comes together like it did with this recruiting class. And now the next step is what we believe we’re really good at, and that’s developing these young men.” 
Kelly said recruiting defensive players is key for any team, sim­ply because of the nature of the game. 
“You can’t fake it on defense,” he said. “You can fake it a little on offense. Defensively, you have to win the one-on-one matchups. Sometimes you can not block the defensive end and option him. Sometimes you can do things with misdirection. But on defense, it’s about players mak­ing plays, and you can’t hide there. So the recruiting efforts start with the defensive line, and they work out from there. You can’t fake it on defense — you have to be able to recruit the players.” 
The recruiting process was dif­ficult for the Irish coaches, both emotionally and physically. Fourteen states are represented in Notre Dame’s recruiting class of 2011, more than any other class in the country. 
“If you take a look at the major BCS programs, their recruiting five or six states, and that’s a lot,” Kelly said. “Just look at the nation and how they recruit compared to the 14 different states. I think Stanford is the only other school that even comes close to recruiting that many states. 
“In just two months time I put up over 15,000 miles in terms of air travel and 55 hours in the air. It just requires a lot of time. And you can’t just have six guys recruiting. You can’t have six really good position coaches and three professional recruiters. All nine at Notre Dame have to recruit, and I think that you’ll see that all nine of our coaches played a very important part of putting this class together.” 
The Irish coaching staff trav­eled the country following recruits, but they had one clear message to present — come to Notre Dame if you want to be at Notre Dame. 
“I think you really have to be able to sell the message of Notre Dame,” Kelly said. “It’s really clear. Number one, you would come to Notre Dame for a degree, and what that does for you. That’s number one, so the player has to have a connection there. If they have no value of a degree from Notre Dame, move to the next guy. Number two, he’s coming to play for Notre Dame, and to win championships at Notre Dame. That has to be clear, that he’s coming here, and he’s going to be part of a team at the University of Notre Dame. And three, that he wants to be developed — physically, socially, spiritually, in his skill. Those are the three things that we stayed with as our bullet points, and we did not waver from those three things. We didn’t promise playing time. We didn’t promise 10 national championships. We did-n’t promise anything. We told them, ‘This is what we’re about, and this is what you’ll get if you come to Notre Dame.’” 
Committing to Notre Dame also requires some flexibility. Kelly and his coaching staff sepa­rate players into three different categories rather than traditional positions — ‘Skill,’ which includes quarterbacks, running backs, wide receivers and defen­sive backs, ‘Big Skill,’ which includes fullbacks, tight ends and linebackers, and ‘Power,’ which includes offensive and defensive linemen. Kelly said that most players are not turned off by the potential that they will end up at a new position, as long as com­munication stays consistent. 
“Once we’re able to communi­cate what we’re doing and how we’re doing it instead of listening to someone else who knows more sometimes about our sys­tem than we do — which is absolutely ridiculous — as long as we get an opportunity to show you what our plans are for you and continue that message, we’re fine. Most of these young men, they want to be in the best position to help the team win. And obviously each of these young men that we have on this roster, they have dreams too, about getting a degree and play­ing in the NFL, and that’s fine. I want those kind of guys. So I think it’s less about ‘no, I’m only this.’ And when we do get that, that sends up a bit of a red flag for us. And that doesn’t mean we’re going to drop him, but it sends up a bit of a red flag.” 
Because high school positions are not as important for the Irish coaching staff, they have more flexibility to attract players of the same position. Kelly said that an overabundance at a single posi­tion, defensive line for instance, is not a problem. 
“I just want the very best play­ers,” he said. “That will all sort itself out very early in the process. I don’t think it’ll be two or three years down the road. I think it sorts itself out very quickly. I know that we’ve got a great understanding of our play­ers, even in this one year, more than anything else, we know where our guys will best fit our program. So I’m very confident that in a very short period of time, a lot of this will take care of itself. If your assets are on the defensive line, that’s a good place to start, and that’s where we’ll start. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
Groundhog’s Day Class a new standard at Notre Dame 








With a class consisting of seven Top-150 recruits according to ESPN, the Irish signed an impressive class filled with talent, and more importantly, one that addressed spe­cific needs moving forward. Irish coach Brian Kelly’s goal was to strengthen the edge of his defense, and six defensive end recruits, including Top-150 signings Aaron Lynch, Ishaq Williams and Stephon Tuitt, does just that. 
Williams will likely move to outside line­backer, as will four-star recruit Ben Councell. Lynch and Tuitt lead the group who will continue playing with their hand on the ground, but will face competition from fellow four-star defensive lineman Anthony Rabasa. 
On the opposite side of the ball, the Irish signed four offensive linemen, including four-star-rated Matthew Hegarty. In the future, they will likely be blocking for dual-threat quarterback Everett Golson, whom looks to fit nicely into Kelly’s spread offense. 
Notre Dame also signed solid targets for Golson, including four-star wide receiver DaVaris Daniels and four-star tight end Ben Koyack. Daniels could fit in nicely in the slot while Koyack has the body and ball skills to join Notre Dame’s line of NFL caliber tight ends. 
Other significant recruits include three-star athlete George Atkinson and his broth­er Josh, a defensive back, three-star run­ning back Cam McDaniel, six-foot-six Troy Niklas, who could play offensive line, defen­sive line or tight end, and kicker Kyle Brindza, who the Irish had pegged as the top kicker in the 2011 recruiting class. 













ND survives chaotic period 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
As up and down as Notre Dame’s season was on the football field, it may have fluctuated even more on the recruiting trail. 
There were commitments, decommitments and, rarest of all, recommitments leading up to National Signing Day Wednesday, when the Irish signed 23 new players to join the team next fall. 
Mike Frank, who covers recruiting for the ESPN-affili­ated website Irish Sports Daily, said the arrival of Irish coach Brian Kelly gave Notre Dame an immediate bump at the beginning of the recruit­ing process. 
“Any time you get a new coach in, you’re going to get a lot of intrigue by a lot of prospects,” Frank said. 
Before the season even started, Kelly used the buzz surrounding his arrival to land a number of elite prospects, including four-star defensive end Aaron Lynch, who committed July 30 dur­ing his official visit to Notre Dame. That same day, the Irish also landed three-star linebacker Anthony Rabasa and four-star running back Justice Hayes. When the sea­son kicked off, Kelly already had 15 players verbally com­mitted. 
“[Notre Dame] had a great run in the summer of getting a lot of elite players commit­ted,” Frank said. 
After early-season strug­gles — including losses to Michigan, Michigan State and Stanford — Frank said some players began to waver in their commitment to Notre Dame. 
“Those three in a row were tough for anybody to stomach and that kind of started to show the cracks in the armor,” he said. 
The Irish still landed a big commitment from four-star defensive end Stephon Tuitt. Wins against Boston College, Pittsburgh and Western Michigan got the Irish back on track and seemed to assuage the minds of poten­tial recruits — at least, until their now-infamous 35-17 loss to Navy in the Meadowlands. 
“Notre Dame obviously turned around and played pretty well there for three games, and then Navy hap­pened,” Frank said. “I think a lot of the top kids started to have some doubts about where the program was headed.” 
In the month that followed, both Lynch and offensive lineman Jordan Prestwood switched their commitment to Florida State and Hayes flipped to Michigan. At his National Signing Day press conference Wednesday, Kelly said Lynch’s early commit­ment made it easier for opposing teams to negatively recruit against Notre Dame. 
“They knew their competi­tion,” Kelly said. “When [Lynch] committed to us, everybody in the country knew who they had to work against. They didn’t have to work against Auburn or Florida or Miami, they just had to beat Notre Dame because he committed to Notre Dame.” 
The Irish bounced back, though, winning their final four games and allowing just three touchdowns in the process. 
“Kids focus on wins,” Kelly said. “That’s definitely part of the equation here. Winning helps in this process.” 
After the season ended, the Irish secured commitments from four-star quarterback Everett Golson and made up for the loss of Hayes by snag­ging three-star running back Cam McDaniel. 

“[McDaniel] is a kid who wants to win more than any­thing,” Frank said. “He’s the type of guy who’s going to push everyone in front of him. He’s one of those guys that’s going to really surprise a lot of people once he gets there.” 
Notre Dame’s stretch run apparently caught Lynch’s eye, as well. At the Army All-American game Jan. 9, he decommitted from Florida State, but said Notre Dame was not under consideration. A week later on Jan. 15, though, he took an official visit to South Bend, recom­mitted to the Irish and began classes as an early enrollee just a few days later. 
“Our staff just kept at it and we got back to why he made this decision to come to Notre Dame in the first place and we’re happy he’s here,” Kelly said. 
The same weekend Lynch recommitted, Kelly and his staff were hard at work securing a pledge from five-star linebacker Ishaq Williams. Williams was down to Notre Dame or Penn State, and was set to take an official visit to State College on Jan. 15, but the night before, Irish defensive coordinator Bob Diaco reportedly visited Williams in his Brooklyn home at 4:30 a.m. and not only got him to cancel his trip to Penn State, but got a ver­bal commitment on the spot. Like Lynch, Williams enrolled early and is already taking classes at Notre Dame. 
“When Bob Diaco came and visited him at the last minute, I think that’s where [Williams] said, ‘These people really, really want me and this is a good thing for my future,’” Frank said. 
Kelly said Diaco’s early-morning visit was not the only time the staff went to great lengths to land Williams. He said defensive line coach Mike Elston once sat in his car outside Williams’ home for 4 ½ hours waiting for Williams after one of his high school playoff games. 
Just as it looked like things were slowing down for Kelly and his staff, they got one last scare from Tuitt. The defensive end had been tak­ing visits to other schools and Jan. 18 switched his commit­ment to Georgia Tech. Kelly, Diaco, Elston and recruiting coordinator Chuck Martin immediately flew down to Tuitt’s home in Monroe, Ga., and, the next day, Tuitt recommitted to the Irish. 
“Having [four coaches] there was really, for us, mak­ing a statement and making sure that what we were talk­ing about and what he saw when he came to Notre Dame and what his family saw was really the truth of the matter, and sometimes you have to overcommunicate that mes­sage,” Kelly said. “We had four coaches there to make sure that message was clear.” 
Now that all 23 letters of intent are signed and received, the drama of the 2011 recruiting cycle has finally come to a close. 
Contact Sam Werner swerner@nd.edu 

Five recruits already adapting to college life 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
While most of Notre Dame’s 23 recruits will join the Irish this summer, five made the choice to leave high school early and enroll in classes this spring. 
Quarterback Everett Golson, kicker Kyle Brindza, linebacker Lynch had originally committed to Notre Dame over the sum­mer, but switched to Florida State for a brief time in January before recommitting to the Irish. 
Brindza, who committed to Notre Dame last spring, origi­nally attempted to enroll an entire year early in order to compete for kicking and punt­ing duties on the 2010 team. 

Ishaq Williams and defensive linemen Aaron Lynch and Brad Carrico are taking classes at Notre Dame and will par­ticipate in spring football practi ces, which begin March 23. 
“These young men get this opportuni­ty to really 
“The football element is big, but the assimilation into being a Notre Dame student is really what [enrolling early] is about.” 
Brian Kelly Irish coach 
understand Notre Dame and the rigors of the classroom, the community, being in the dorms, finding South Dining Hall, understanding all those things before they have to play in the fall,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. 
Lynch, a four-star recruit, and Williams, a five-star recruit, both committed just days before the spring semester began on Jan. 18. Williams committed Jan. 14 and Lynch on Jan. 15. 
However, Notre Dame admis­sions declined his request. 
Enrolli ng early allows players extra time to work out with the team and learn the Irish play­book, which could translate into opportuni­ties early in the fall season. 
This could be especially criti­
cal for Lynch and Carrico, who are among six defensive line­men to sign with the Irish in 2011. 
“You would think that with the number of guys who can play that position, somebody might break through at that position. But it’s so hard,” Kelly said. “The guys that are going to be here, the five guys that are here, they’ve got a shot too, because we’ve got a chance to evaluate them against ... Zach Martin, Taylor Dever ... guys that have played quality compe­tition. 
“But I would say that there’s a lot of defensive players that are going to get a chance to com­pete.” 
The extra time will also give Golson, this year’s only quarter­back recruit, a chance to estab­lish himself next to quarter­backs Tommy Rees and Dayne Crist, Kelly said. 
“I think it becomes pretty clear that Tommy Rees and Everett Golson are two different quarterbacks relative to the style,” Kelly said. “I think what you’ll see is Tommy Rees and most likely Dayne Crist and the other quarterbacks fit into that category. And then on the other side of the ledger you’ll have Everett Golson.” 
Of the five freshmen who enrolled early in 2010, three saw significant playing time this season. 
Rees played in nine games and started four after junior quarterback Dayne Crist had season-ending surgery. He led the Irish to consecutive wins over Utah, Army, USC and Miami in the last four weeks of the season. 
Wide receiver T.J. Jones earned a starting position in fall camp, and started seven of the 12 games in which he played. He scored a touchdown in each of his first two games, against Purdue and Michigan, becoming the first freshman to accom­plish such a feat. He finished the season with 23 catches for 306 yards and three touch­downs. 
Cornerback Lo Wood played in 11 games. 
“The football element is big, but the assimilation into being a Notre Dame student is really what [enrolling early] is about,” Kelly said. 
Contact Laura Myers lmyers2@nd.edu 







