
Woo leads business school for final semester 
Dean reflects on contribution to Mendoza College of Business, looks to future with national non-profit 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
This semester marks the end of Carolyn Woo’s 14-year ten­ure as dean of the Mendoza College of Business. In June, Woo was named president and CEO of Catholic Relief Services (CRS), the official international humanitarian agency of the Catholic Church in the United States. 
“I felt like I needed a semes­ter to tie up the loose ends,” Woo said. “In particular, to make sure the various foun­dations of the College are in a good place.” 
Woo, who begins her new po­sition Jan. 1, served as a board member for CRS from 2004­2009. 
“I really came to know the organization from those five years and also traveled on be­half of CRS,” she said. “I had the chance to see firsthand the incredible impact and contri­bution of that work.” 
Woo said she thinks of her new position as “an extraordi­nary privilege.” 
“One of my greatest fears is that we learn not to see the people who suffer,” she said. “I consider myself blessed to have the chance that I see.” 
After seeing how CRS trans­formed people’s lives, Woo de­cided it was time to go serve that family and said she is looking forward to doing God’s work. 
“I get intimidated when I think of taking this job on all by myself,” she said. “But it is really His work and His Spirit that moves us along.” 
Even though Mendoza reached the top of Business­Week’s undergraduate rank­ings during her time as dean, Woo said she is most proud of keeping strong moral and ethi­cal standards at the center of the College’s mission.
 “We never compromised our Catholic identity,” she said. “We advanced our academic reputation and Catholic mis­sion at the same time.” 
Woo attributes her success as dean to the efforts of the College’s staff. 
“I think that the success that the Mendoza College of Busi­

see WOO/page 5 




St. Michael’s offers campus laundering 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
While the majority of stu­dents set aside a few hours each week to wash and dry their laundry, others opt to send their clothes to St. Mi­chael’s Laundry Service to have it done for a fee. 
St. Michael’s, located behind the Main Building, offers a “Student Bundle” plan for $225 a semester. Once a week on an assigned day, St. Michael’s visits each dorm to pick up a bundle of laundry from each student, and then returns the clean clothes a few days later. 
“We pick it up, we bring it back and your laundry is get­ting done for you,” St. Michael’s Counter Service Lead Repre­sentative Jean Rinehart said. “It gives you more free time to study and do other things.” 


see LAUNDRY/page 3 

Students leave halls for houses 
By VICKY MORENO 
News Writer 
While the University high­lights dorm life as one of the greatest parts of the Notre Dame experience, many stu­dents head off campus for their senior year, choosing to live at a “home just be­yond the Dome.” 
Eighty percent of Notre Dame students live on cam­pus, the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH) reported. Of the 20 percent that live off campus, how-


see HOUSING/page 5 

G. MATTHEW SAAD/The Observer 
Students Louise Fauth, Vishnu Thaver, Jack Heuer and their dog Petey relax on the porch of their off-campus home. 


New professors join teaching faculty, pursue research 

LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Frosh-O and Transfer-O ac­tivities may have wound down last week, but the University welcomed one last group to campus as new professors be­gan their tenure at the Univer­sity. 
The new professors come from a variety of different backgrounds and experiences. 
For engineering professor Ashley Thrall, Notre Dame will be her first teaching job after earning a doctorate in civil and environmental engineering from Princeton University last May. 
“I was drawn to academia be­cause it offers the opportunity to educate and mentor the next generation of scholars while also enabling professors com­plete freedom to pursue their research interests,” she said. 
This year, Thrall will teach a course on structural steel design, a core requirement for all civil engineering and geo­logical science students. In the future, Thrall said she hopes to develop and teach courses in advanced steel design and bridge design, the topic of her dissertation. 
Thrall was drawn to Notre Dame partially because of its Catholic tradition. 
“Notre Dame’s rich and unique tradition of viewing research as service is deeply intertwined with its Catholic 


see PROFESSOR/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER College student interns for Disney page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Meek’s cutoff at DPAC page 8 u Men’s Soccer feature: Dillon Powers page 16 











QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO WOULD YOU WANT TO PLAY AT THE B1 BLOCK PARTY? 
Emma Anderson 
freshman McCandless 
“Wiz Khalifa.” 
Julia Brehl 
freshman McCandless 
“Mac Miller.” 

Mimi Huang 
junior McGlinn 
“Maroon 5.” 
Sarah Kennedy 
senior 
Lyons 
“Spice Girls.” 
Tom Roman 
sophomore St. Edward’s 
“Paul McCartney.” 
Yiting Zheng 
junior McGlinn 
“John Mayer.” 




TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
John Cameron Marisa Iati Emma Russ 

Graphics 
Lauren Kalinoski 

Photo 
Thomas La 


Sports 

Andrew Owens Andrew Gastelum Connor Kelly 

Scene 

Kevin Noonan Courtney Cox 

Viewpoint 
Ren Brauweiler 
Terrorist T-shirt raises scholarship money 
HOQUIAM, Wash. — A community festival near the Washington state coast is attracting attention with a T-shirt mocking Osama bin Laden. 
The Loggers Playday fes­tival shirts — featuring a cartoon of the terror mas­termind tied to a log with the caption “Osama Bin Loggin’” — are being sold for $15 to raise money for a scholarship. 
Organizers say they got the idea because their Sept. 10 event is so close to the 10th anniversary of 9/11 and because bin Laden was killed by U.S. military forces in May. 

The T-shirt maker, Chris­tian Burgess of Jacknut Ap­parel, told The Daily World critics have called the T-shirt tacky and in very poor taste. 
Drunk clown charged with DWI in golf cart incident 
VIENNA TOWNSHIP, Mich. — A Maltese dog that disappeared more than a year ago after a fatal car crash in New Mexico has been returned to surviving family members in Michi­gan. 
The crash in June last year killed Gary Benson and his daughter, Emily. Af­terward, his wife and four surviving children searched unsuccessfully for the fam­ily pet named Caesar. 
Monica Benson told New Mexico’s Quay County Sun she posted pictures of Cae­sar and her son, Benjamin, in Benjamin’s hospital room while then-18-month-old re­covered and he kept asking where the dog was. 
A volunteer at a shelter in Tucumcari, N.M., contacted Benson after scanning a microchip in Caesar earlier this month. 
He was returned to his family Saturday. Benson told The Detroit News the dog remembered her fam­ily and “it was an amazing evening.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 



IN BRIEF 
Today is the last day for all class changes. Contact the registrar to make chang­es in your schedule. 
Professor Jeffrey Berg-strand will give a lecture titled “Governance and Glo­balization” today at 12:30 
p.m. The lecture is free and will take place in room C103 in the Hesburgh Center. 
Professor Martin Osto­ja-Starzewski will host a seminar today titled “Ran­domness and Fractals in Mechanics of Materials” from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m. The seminar will take place in 138 DeBartolo Hall. 
The Student Activities Office will hold Activities Night from 7 to 9 p.m. to­night in the Joyce Cen­ter. Students are invited to learn about the more than 250 undergraduate clubs and organizations. Student Government will distribute free planners at their ta­ble. Enter the Joyce Center through Gate 3. 

A Catholic Charismatic prayer meeting will be held tonight from 7:30 to 8:30 
p.m. in Alumni Hall. Meet­ings will be held every Tues­day night in the Alumni Hall chapel. 
The Community Relations Office, Student Government and NDSP will host a Stu­dent Safety Summit tomor­row from 6 to 7 p.m. The Summit will take place on the Irish Green. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH 70 LOW 61 

HIGH 81 LOW 65 
HIGH 88 LOW 70 
HIGH 94 LOW 70 
HIGH 82 LOW 60 


GAMEDAY 












CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
SMC student interns for Disney 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
While many students spend their internships toiling away at investment banks or ac­counting firms, Saint Mary’s junior Tori Spencer spent hers working at the “Happiest Place on Earth.” Last spring, Spencer took a semester off and headed down to Orlando to participate in the Disney College Program at the Walt Disney World Resort. 
Taking a semester off for an internship is unconventional, but Spencer said she did not regret her decision. 
“It was definitely worth leaving school for a semester. My family has gone to Disney for years, and I have always wanted to work for the com­pany. It is a lifelong dream finally come true,” Spencer said. “And I will still get to graduate on time, despite the semester off.” 
While in Orlando, Spen­cer worked at the Hollywood Studios, one of Disney’s four theme parks, in the Quick Service department handling food and beverage sales. She was responsible for manning the cash registers and cook­ing and serving food to cus­tomers. 
“It wasn’t what I expected,” 

Laundry 
continued from page 1 
Although St. Michael’s main service is the “Student Bun­dle,” Rinehart said they also offer tailoring, dry cleaning and individual wet clean­ing. For students who use the bundle plan, these extra services are simply deducted from their original allotment of $225. 
However, Rinehart said all these services are also avail­able to students who did not sign up for the bundle plan. 
“Any student can get an item of clothing tailored or wet cleaned,” Rinehart said. “And if a student wants to just send in one bundle for the whole year, they can do that too.” 
Although many students will send in a bundle or two near finals, students save money by signing up for the entire semester, Rinehart said. If a student uses the bun­dle plan service, each bundle costs $13.75. If a student only does one or two bundles a year, each costs $19.36. 
Although paying for St. Mi-Spencer said. “Basically, I was working in fast food. You think ‘Disney,’ and you think ‘glamorous.’ But while it was very different than what I was used to, it was a really great experience. I loved the people I worked with and I always looked forward going into work every day.” 
Spencer kept busy, work­ing 40 to 60 hours each week while also taking a marketing course offered through the in­ternship program. 
“Disney offers different col­lege courses to the program participants so we have the opportunity to gain credit for our schools back home,” Spen­cer said. 
Spencer, however, will not receive credit for her intern­ship because she changed ma­jors right before taking her leave of absence. 
Despite not having academ­ic credit to show for her time spent at Disney, she said she does not feel like she came back to campus empty-hand­ed. 
“I made lifelong friends down there,” Spencer said. “I am still really close with all of my roommates. I met so many people from all over the coun­try and the world — that was the best part of my experi­ence.” 
Though working for Disney was a dream come true for Spencer, participating in the program did not come without challenges. 
“The hardest part of the program was being so far away from home for so long. 
I  was  also  working  crazy  
hours,” Spencer said.  
Homesickness  and  long  

workdays were not enough to discourage Spencer from pursuing a future career with Disney, though. 
“I really want to go back this summer or after I gradu­ate and work as a marketing or wedding planner intern,” Spencer said. “Hopefully I will move up in the company to jobs more closely related to what I want to do. My goal is to become a seasonal em­ployee, which would make me eligible for all of the benefits. 
Benefits include free park admission and discounted prices at all of the souvenir shops, which Spencer got to enjoy during her internship. 
“The Disney College Pro­gram was a great work expe­rience. It definitely prepares you for the real world and you meet so many fun people,” she said. 

Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 
chael’s to do his laundry is a problem. more expensive than it would “If you forget to drop stuff be to do it on his own, sopho-off it’s really awkward and more Pat O’Brien said the ser-you have to do it yourself any-vice is worth it. way,” O’Brien said. “And then 
“It really saves me a lot of you put all your clothes in that time, and then I can do home-bundle and don’t get them work and other things,” he back for two days. That can be said. kind of awkward too.” 
O’Brien used the bundle Junior Christian Demere service last year and will con-signed up for the service his tinue to do so this year. freshman and sophomore 
However, not all students years, but only had minor is-who sign up for the sues with the service freshman service. year continue us-“Out of all the 
“It really 
ing it the following times I used it 
saves me a lot 
years. Junior Lau-there would be a 
of time, and 
ren Antonelle en-few times when 
then I can do 
joyed the extra free you’d lose a sock time St. Michael’s homework and or two,” he said. gave her as a fresh-other things.” “That’s kind man, but she opted of an inconve­not to continue the nience, but it re-
Pat O’Brien 
service. ally wasn’t that 
sophomore 
“My parents paid often at all.” for it for me for Lost socks a graduation present,” An-were not enough to make De­tonelle said. “They figured I’d mere regret using the service. like the time it would save me. “It’s definitely a good trade-But I didn’t sign up for it last off. It’s well worth the money, year because I felt the drop-since you’ll have to pay for off and pick-up days were in-the washing machine in your convenient for me.” dorm anyway,” Demere said. 
O’Brien agreed that the scheduled days provided by Contact Mel Flanagan at St. Michael’s sometimes posed mflanag3@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s offers Zumba instruction 
By JILL BARWICK 
News Writer 
When Jennifer Roberts be­gan working at Saint Mary’s, she wanted to take Zumba classes at the College, but none were available. Now, Roberts, assistant director for external events in the Office of Special Events, will offer Zumba class­es to the Saint Mary’s commu­nity to fill the gap. 
“Zumba is a Latin-inspired fitness program that uses four basic Latin rhythms mixed with fun, high-energy music,” Roberts said. “Dancing for an hour, rather than running for an hour, makes you feel like you are having fun rather than actually working out.” 
After being certified in Zum­ba instruction, Roberts will teach the class in hopes of providing a different form of exercise compared to the con­ventional fitness classes held at Saint Mary’s. 
She invited students, faculty and community members to “ditch the workout and join the party” in her class. 
Roberts said those unfamil­iar with Zumba should not be hesitant to try it. 
“I want people to know that Zumba really is for anyone, even those intimidated by having minimal dance skills,” Roberts said. “Zumba is easy enough for everyone to follow.” 
While Roberts hopes to offer her students an entertaining exercise option, she said she is equally excited to be instruct­ing the class. 
“I just wanted to offer other opportunities for Saint Mary’s as far as working out goes,” she said. “I am excited to see how the classes work out.” 
The classes are informal and do not require registration. Roberts said she hopes partici­pation will be high enough to warrant Zumba’s addition to the regular schedule of ath­letic classes. 
Until then, Roberts is rent­ing the space herself, which is why there is a small fee for participation. The class will cost $5 for students, $6 for faculty and $7 for the general public. 
Some students have already expressed interest in joining the class. Junior Cailin Crowe said she is eager to integrate Zumba into her workout rou­tine. 
“I am excited to see what these classes have to offer,” she said. “I enjoy working out on a regular basis and it will be nice to shake my routine up a bit by adding Zumba classes to my schedule. 
“I’m looking forward to get­ting my groove on,” Crowe said. 
Classes will take place Mon­days from 6 to 7 p.m. in the Angela Athletic facility. 
Contact Jill Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Students take jobs on campus, use JOBboard 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
Attending Notre Dame is far from a cheap venture for stu­dents and their families, but the University has resources avail­able for students who need help covering costs. Campus employ­ment is one way students can take the edge off tuition pay­ments or make a little extra cash. 
The Office of Student Employ­ment reported over 40 percent of students take advantage of campus employment. Students work across campus in areas such as restaurants, academic buildings and residence halls. 
Senior Justin Pham worked for the Center for Social Con­cerns (CSC) during his junior year. Pham, who was involved with the CSC in other capacities, said the job was in line with his academic interests. 
“A job is a major commitment and once you have a job on cam­pus you can appreciate that, but it can also be an opportunity to pursue your extra-curricular interests,” Pham said. 
Junior Eric Hinterman has worked in the Huddle since the beginning of his sophomore year and is now a manager. Hinterman, a chemical engi­neering major and member of the marching band, said despite having to balance his job with other commitments, he enjoys the routine of regular work. 
“Having a job keeps me busy,” Hinterman said. “I encourage freshmen to get a job because it allows you to learn time man­agement skills.” 
The JOBboard program, an online resource available to students through InsideND, is one way the Office of Student Employment seeks to simplify the process of obtaining cam­pus jobs. 
The program serves as a hub for job offerings on campus and also provides limited off-cam­pus opportunities. Listings are divided into categories, such as athletics, clerical and food ser­vice. 
Sophomore Leah Corachea, who began working at Legends last year after finding the job listing on the program, said the categorization in the program allowed her to easily target the types of jobs she preferred.
 “It is user-friendly and I still use it now,” she said. “The for­mat is helpful because it divides up the types of jobs.” 
Despite some students’ suc­cesses finding employment through the program, student body president Patrick McCor­mick said student government is looking to increase the us­ability of the JOBboard. 
“The JOBboard is an impor­tant program and we are cur­rently looking into ways to im­prove it,” he said. “We are in the review stage right now; so we would welcome any comments or suggestions from students.” 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 



Housing 
continued from page 1 
ever, the majority are seniors. 
Some seniors said residence halls monitor the rules and regulations so closely that the proper transition to adulthood and independence is only pos­sible if they live off campus. 
Former Knott resident Dan­iel McHugh said the best part of living off campus is the in­dependence. 
“You have to cook for your­self, clean for yourself, and find a way to get on campus,” McHugh, a senior, said. “Liv­ing off campus really facili­tates the transition from stu­dent to employee. It’s a step towards being a grown up without throwing you into the real world immediately after graduation.” 
Professor 
continued from page 1 
identity”, she said.  “I found this tradition to be very in­spiring and believe that my re­search interests — the design of deployable structures for disaster relief — will fit in well with the character of the University.” 
Professor Matthew Wilkens is also a new face on campus. However, unlike 

Students who choose to leave their residence halls may experience more freedom, but they sacrifice certain conve­niences as well. 
Senior Erin Scott, formerly of Welsh Family Hall, said waking up for early classes reminded her of the benefits of living on the University’s grounds. 
“I can’t wake up at 8:15 

a.m. for an 8:30 a.m. class and I have to shower in the Rock when I work out between classes,“ Scott said. “But luck­ily, four out of the six girls in our house have cars so we fig­ure it out.” 
However brief the commute from off-campus residences to class is, the inconvenience is enough to encourage students to spend their time on campus more efficiently. 
Senior Chris Payne said he now gets work done earlier in 
Thralls, this is not his first job in academia. 
After earning a doctorate in literature from Duke Universi­ty, he worked at Rice Universi­ty and Washington University in St. Louis. 
Wilkens said he enjoys his work because it provides him the opportunity to discuss lit­erature with gifted students and academics. 
“I’m paid to read books and talk about them with smart students and colleagues,” Wilkens said. “It’s pretty 
Obama names economic adviser 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Facing a public deeply dissatisfied with his handling of the economy, President Barack Obama on Monday tapped a prominent labor economist to join his cadre of advisers and help steer a fall jobs agenda that will be critical to the presi­dent’s re-election bid. 
In nominating Alan Krueger as chair of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, Obama gains an economist with expertise in the labor market and unemployment, a key drag on the U.S. econo­my and Obama’s presidency. Krueger, a former Treasury Department official and Princ­eton University economist, has advocated for hiring tax credits for businesses and in­creased government spending on infrastructure, two pro­grams Obama aides are con­sidering proposing this fall. 
His appointment also caps a wholesale makeover of Obama’s economic leadership team during the past year. Several high-ranking advis­ers, including Lawrence Sum­mers, Christina Romer and Austan Goolsbee, have all left the administration, leaving Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner as the only top offi­cial remaining from the presi­dent’s original economic team. 
Obama has often reached within his administration’s ranks to fill vacant posts on the economic team, and Krueger is no exception. Though he spent last year at Princeton, he served as assistant secre­tary for economic policy at the Treasury Department during the first two years of Obama’s administration. 
Gregory Mankiw, a former CEA chairman under Presi­dent George W. Bush and long­time acquaintance of Krueger, said Obama’s new nominee has a reputation as an analyt­ic, data-driven economist, not as a champion for many spe­cific policy initiatives. While Mankiw said he believes Krueger is highly-qualified for the post, he doesn’t expect him to push the administra­tion in any new directions when it comes to tackling the nation’s economic and unem­ployment woes. 
“This is more of a continu­ity appointment rather than a move-in-a-new-direction appointment,” said Mankiw, now an economics professor at Harvard University. “I don’t think the president wanted a change. He’s keeping the ba­sic structure of the team in place.” 
White House spokesman Jay Carney brushed off ques­tions Monday about whether Krueger would bring any the day, thanks to the distance he has to travel to get home. 
“Without a home base as close by as before, I’ve ended up doing more work in be­tween classes, even if there’s only an awkward hour,” the former Stanford resident said. “Before, I typically waited un­til my classes had all ended and I had eaten dinner before I really tackled assignments.” 
Despite the drawbacks, Irish Row resident Danielle Duva said the benefits of off-campus living outweigh the cons. 
“I miss the six-and-a-half minute walk to DeBartolo in the morning,” Duva, a senior, said. “But my own bathroom, own bedroom and the freedom is well worth the loss of a few minutes of sleep.” 
Contact Victoria Moreno at vmoreno@nd.edu 
great.” 
Like Thrall, Wilkens sought out a university that placed importance on both research and educating students. 
“Notre Dame has exactly the combination of first-rate research and serious teach­ing that I was looking for,” he said. “A lot of schools claim to value both those things, but it’s rare to find them done so well together.” 
Contact anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

fresh job creation ideas to the White House, saying only that the president’s nominee was the best person for the job. 
“He’s an excellent econo­mist whose particular skills are more relevant than ever in the economic environment we find ourselves in,” Carney said. “His expertise in the la­bor market is particularly rel­evant as we focus on the need to grow the economy and in­crease job creation.” 
Obama announced Krueger’s nomination at a Rose Garden ceremony Mon­day morning and said he would rely on the economist for unvarnished guidance, not partisan political advice. 
“That’s more important than ever right now,” Obama said. “We need folks in Wash­ington to make decisions based on what’s best for the country, not what’s best for any political party or special interest.” 
Woo 
continued from page 1 
ness has achieved is because of an incredibly dedicated and talented team of staff,” she said. 
Woo said the search for her replacement will begin this se­mester.  Roger Huang, associ­ate dean of Mendoza, will serve as interim dean after Woo’s de­parture. 
“If it wasn’t for my time at Notre Dame, I don’t think I could have been ready for my time at CRS,” she said.  “Sometimes in your life, you just have to leave home for the next phase.” 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 
Hurricane Irene’s death toll reaches 40 
Associated Press 
MONTPELIER, Vt. — The full measure of Hurricane Irene’s fury came into focus Monday as the death toll jumped to 40, New England towns battled epic floods and millions faced the dispiriting prospect of several days without electricity. 
From North Carolina to Maine, communities cleaned up and took stock of the uneven and hard-to-predict costs of a storm that spared the nation’s biggest city a nightmare scenario, only to deliver a historic wallop to towns well inland. 
In New York City, where people had braced for a disaster-movie scene of water swirling around skyscrapers, the subways and buses were up and running again in time for the Monday morning commute. And to the surprise of many New Yorkers, things went pretty smoothly. 
But in New England, land­locked Vermont contended with what its governor called the worst flooding in a century. Streams also raged out of con­trol in upstate New York. 
In many cases, the mo­ment of maximum danger ar­rived well after the storm had passed, as rainwater made its way into rivers and streams and turned them into torrents. Irene dumped up to 11 inches of rain on Vermont and more than 13 in parts of New York. 
“We were expecting heavy rains,” said Bobbi-Jean Jeun of Clarksville, a hamlet near Al­bany, N.Y. “We were expecting flooding. We weren’t expecting devastation. It looks like some­body set a bomb off.” 
Meanwhile, the 11-state death toll, which had stood at 21 as of Sunday night, rose sharply as bodies were pulled from flood­waters and people were electro­cuted by downed power lines. 
The tally of Irene’s destruc­tion mounted, too. An appar­ently vacant home exploded in an evacuated, flooded area in Pompton Lakes, N.J., early Monday, and firefighters had to battle the flames from a boat. In the Albany, N.Y., suburb of Guilderland, police rescued two people Monday after their car was swept away. Rescuers found them three hours later, clinging to trees along the swollen creek. 
“It’s going to take time to recover from a storm of this magnitude,” President Barack Obama warned as he prom­ised the government would do everything in its power to help people get back on their feet. 
For many people, the after­math could prove more painful than the storm itself. 
In North Carolina, where Irene blew ashore along the Outer Banks on Saturday before heading for New York and New England, 1,000 people were still in emergency shelters, awaiting word on their homes. 
At the same time, nearly 5 million homes and businesses in a dozen states were still without electricity, and utilities warned it might be a week or more be­fore some people got their pow­er back. 
“Once the refrigerator gets warm, my insulin goes bad. I could go into diabetic shock. It’s kind of scary because we don’t know how long it’s going to be out for,” said Patricia Dillon, a partially paralyzed resident of a home for the disabled in Milford, Conn., where the elec­tricity was out and a generator failed. Her voice cracking, she added: “I’m very tired, stressed out, aggravated, scared.” 
Russ Furlong of Barrington, R.I., ruefully remembered the two weeks he went without power after Hurricane Bob 20 years ago. 
“Hopefully, we won’t have to wait that long this time,” he said. “Last night we had can­dles. It was romantic. It was fun. But that feeling doesn’t last too long.” 
Up and down the Eastern Sea­board, commuters and vaca­tioners found their travel plans scrambled. Airlines warned it would be days before the thou­sands of passengers stranded by Irene find their way home. Some Amtrak service in the North­east was suspended. Commuter trains between New Jersey and New York City were not run­ning. Trains between the city and its northern suburbs were also disrupted. 
Kris and Jennifer Sylvester of Brooklyn sat on a bench in the town center in Woodstock, N.Y., with luggage at their feet and their daughters, aged 4 and 9, holding signs reading, “Need a Ride 2 NYC” and “Help Us, No Bus, No Train.” They rode Am­trak out for a long weekend in the country, but were unable to get home. 
“We’re hoping for anything,” Jennifer Sylvester said. 
In Vermont, the state’s emer­gency management headquar­ters stood empty, evacuated because of river flooding from Irene’s heavy rains. Rescuers used a boat and bucket loaders to pluck seven people from a swamped mobile home park in Lyndonville. 
In upstate New York, authori­ties were closely watching ma­jor dams holding back drinking water reservoirs. 
Throughout the region, hun­dreds of roads were impassable because of flooding or fallen trees, and some bridges had simply given way, including a 156-year-old hand-hewn, wood­en, covered bridge across Scho­harie Creek in Blenheim, N.Y. In all, more than a dozen towns in Vermont and at least three in New York remained cut off by flooded roads and bridges. 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Pineapples 
Everyone experiences life-changing moments.  For some, it was ripping open that Notre Dame acceptance let­ter.  For others, it was picking a major or locking eyes with that special some­one in class. For me, it was discovering “Psych,” a TV show on USA Network. 
“Psych” follows the life of Shawn Spencer (James Roday) and his best friend, Burton “Gus” Guster (Dulé Hill). Shawn refuses to grow up and become his father, a former police detective who also trained him to be one.  In a pinch, to avoid jail time, he tells the Santa Barbara Police Department he is psy­chic.  In reality, he is highly observant with an eidetic memory. 
He continues to pretend to have these powers and becomes a consul­tant with the SBPD.  Although Head Detective Carlton Lassiter (Timothy Osmund) does not fully believe in Shawn and his professed powers, he proves to be an excellent addition to the force, helping to solve many cases. 
Basically, “Psych” is a crime comedy. Shawn and Gus solve murders just like Detectives Ed Greene (James L. Mar­tin) and Lenny Briscoe (Jerry Orbach) on “Law and Order.” They just do it in a less conventional — and questionably legal — manner.  But that adds to the hilarity and general awesomeness of the show. 
The show began in 2006, although I did not discover it until about a year later when I watched it with one of my brothers.  Instantly, I was hooked. At the time mostly unknown, “Psych” unfortunately aired Fridays at 10 p.m. Hulu and Netflix, however, helped solve this problem until this past year, when the show was bumped up to Wednesday night. 
That fateful day I watched “Psych” for the first time, my life changed for the better.  If you know me well, you are aware that half of what comes out of my mouth is from a movie or TV show.  Well, half of that probably comes from “Psych.”  We’ll really be better friends if you can get on my “Psych” level.  Shawn helps me express myself in ways I never could’ve imag­ined. 
Shawn, with his hijinx and tomfool­ery, has also opened whole new worlds to me.  After watching an entire episode centered on Alfred Hitchcock movies, my family and I watched most of the classics.  I am now a huge fan of delicious flavor and pineapples have become an important part of my diet. 
The show has even given me new op­portunities to bond — and spar — with my family.  My brothers and I share a unique and unparalleled love for this special USA show, and we’re not afraid to show it.  We’ve always gotten along extremely well, but “Psych” helps bring our relationships even closer. 
“Psych” may not change your life like it did mine. But if you want to give it a shot, Season Six begins in October with an impressive list of guest stars. Shawn and his polished blades of snarky eloquence promise to bring just as many laughs this year, so I would recommend not missing them. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at      modonne5@nd.edu 

Mary Claire O’Donnell 
Scene Writer 
Trade idea: Buy Quarter Dog futures 
A futures desk at a Wall Street bank sounds like some sort of covert fortune­telling operation.  It sounds like the desk where traders can swing by in the morn­ing to read the tea leaves and see what stocks are going to be hot that 
Grace Concelman 
day. It almost doesn’t seem Options and like it should be 
Futures 
legal.  Is divi­nation how all of these Wall Street banks keep making money? 
Actually, a future in the finance world is very different than Professor Trelawney’s class.  It’s a standardized contract traded on an exchange in which two parties agree to trade something later for a price agreed upon today.  The something can be pretty much anything — a currency, an interest rate or a commodity like gold or pork bel­lies (yes, people do still trade pork bellies in Chicago). The buyer of the future hopes the price will increase so that when the contract expires, he can buy at the agreed-upon price, go sell in the market for the higher price and pocket the difference. After all, the rule of finance is to “buy low, sell high.” 
Legend has it that the first person to profit from futures was actually a philoso­pher named Thales.  One year around 500 B.C., Thales predicted that the olive har­vest would be particularly fruitful, and so he bought contracts from all of the ol­ive press owners that gave him exclusive rights to the presses at harvest.  The own­ers of the presses were happy to receive guaranteed income even if the harvest 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

turned out poorly.  Thales did some analy­sis based on weather patterns, and specu­lated that the harvest would be good, and so the future demand for use of the presses would be high.  According to the legend, Thales was right and ended up making a lot of money.  That, of course, was the last time a philosopher was in the news for making money. 
I had a chance to rotate on a futures desk during my internship this summer and got a chance to see how these contracts are actually traded.  Most of what I got to ob­serve was interest rate futures, which are fundamental to the financial system, but way less exciting than futures for olive oil. 
While I was on the desk one day, day­dreaming in the mid-morning time when it’s too early to go get lunch but all you can think about is food so until noon you’re pretty much worthless, I started thinking a little more creatively about futures. 
If there can be futures on pork bellies and the weather, what if there could be fu­tures on other things? 
I’d buy a future on the price of quarter dogs.  As great as the tradition is, the price simply hasn’t kept pace with inflation.  Ac­cording to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, since 1993, when the Huddle started sell­ing the hot dogs to hordes of hungry stu­dents needing midnight sustenance, in­flation has risen by fifty-four percent.  So, under the assumption that prices move with inflation, quarter dogs should actu­ally cost $0.39.  Despite strong student op­position, quarter dog prices will eventually have to rise, and I’d like to lock in the lower price now. 
I’d sell a future on the continued exis­tence of Stepan Center.  Newer, less leaky buildings on campus have been steadily stealing away market share year by year until all that Stepan is really used for now is Domerfest and freshmen chemistry ex­ams.  It’s old, outdated and taking up space that could probably be put to more produc­tive use.  Plus, it really doesn’t fit in with the design philosophy of the rest of cam­pus (although, by that argument, I’d also have to be a seller of futures on all of Mod Quad). 
Finally, I’d buy a future on our football team.  This is Notre Dame, after all — blind faith in our football team is something of an institution.  So I’d buy a future on us going 12-0 this season and hedge it by also buying a future on my GPA this semester. 
The rationale is that the success of the football team is inversely related to my grades — time spent on football is time not spent studying. 
So, if the football team does really well, I make money on the football contract and lose money on the GPA one.  If the foot­ball team disappoints, I lose money on the football contract, but make money on my GPA.  Since it’s a perfectly hedged position I would theoretically come out even in the end, having made as much money on one contract as I lost on the other one.  As a senior though, I’m thinking I’d prefer the first scenario. 
Grace Concelman is a senior majoring in finance and philosophy.  She can be reached at gconcelm@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily that of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Examine what is said, not him who speaks.” 
Arab proverb 


WEEKLY POLL 
What are you doing before the game on Saturday? 
a) Eating free food at tailgates 
b) Playing cornhole 
c) Painting my body green 
d) All of the above 
Vote by Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Finding the truth through numbers 
Dear Mr. Pilger, 

I have a wee little quibble with your argument from Monday (“Perry’s ‘injus­tice,’ Aug. 29). It’s not that I believe Americans don’t pay enough in income taxes, or that the tax code is fine as it is (it most certainly could use some changes), but rather, your statistics on Texas jobs and education don’t tell the whole story. You wrote that Texas “leads the nation in minimum wage jobs and adults without high school education.” I have no objection to the statement, but there were a few facts missing. 
It is true that Texas has many people working in minimum wage jobs and many people who don’t have high school education, but it also has a very large immi­grant population. What the statistics fail in mentioning is that many of the immi­grants (especially undocumented immigrants) come into this nation with little or no high school education. Many of them work in whatever job they can find, often in jobs with smaller paychecks. Also quoted: “Statistics show that 26 percent of Texans lack health insurance.” If this statistic is “adjusted” for the number of immigrants who may not be able to purchase health insurance because of citi­zenship status, then the percentage is much smaller. 
Perhaps I see things a little differently because I see through the eyes of a Western Texan. Perhaps I’m just a fan of precise, truth-telling numbers. I see no problem in the statistics themselves; in fact, I applaud you for using them. I just want everyone to see some of the other details in the numbers and to learn to take all statistics with a grain of salt. 
Marie Moya 
junior Cavanaugh Hall Aug. 29 

Regret lives forever 
Maggy Garcia was one of the most beautiful people you could ever meet, in­side and out. She had an absolutely radiant smile, oozed an infectiously positive personality and you’d never know anyone who could light up a room until you met her. Maggy Garcia, I am lucky to say, was a dear friend of mine. I have an in­numerable amount of fond memories of growing up with her that I will cherish forever. 
Maggy Garcia died last weekend very suddenly and unexpectedly. I imagine that many of you have experienced the pain and suffering that I am going through right now. Losing someone you love is never easy, but it seems that much more difficult to deal with when it is someone your own age, like Maggy. 
Being young, we tend to approach life with a sort of wild, joyous confidence and sense of invincibility. We rarely stop to truly appreciate that every day, every moment, is a gift. Here at Notre Dame, however, we are perhaps more acutely aware than most of our generation of how suddenly fate can change. Within our Domer family alone, we have had too many tragic incidents, from Marcus Garcia’s accident last week that still has us holding our breaths, to the tragic losses that overshadowed our campus just last year. 
My message to you today, however, goes beyond a simple call for appreciating life and never taking our blessings for granted. 
While already suffering from the loss of my friend this weekend, I came across something that shattered what was left of my heart. While perusing the various farewell messages on Maggy’s Facebook wall this weekend, I was struck by one in particular. A college friend of Maggy’s was expressing her regret for the way they had last parted, just a few days before Maggy’s death. Though she did not give de­tails of the disagreement, she wrote, “I know you know I didn’t mean the horrible words I said to you, but I hate knowing that I will now never be able to take them back. Please, please forgive me.” 
If I have one goal in life, it is to die with no regrets. All in all, I’d have to say that I’ve lived up to that goal relatively well thus far. However, I’d never before this weekend really considered what it would be like to have regrets about my relationship with someone if they were to pass away. 
Just like we all have good friends, there’s no denying that we all probably have a few not-so-good friends. I’ll be the first to admit that there are several people in my life and on this campus alone with whom I have had a rough past and har­bor strong resentment toward. 
However, after this weekend, I have been inspired to challenge myself, and all of you who read this, to let it go. Let go of your anger. Let go of your old grudges. It’s a thousand times easier to smile at someone than it is to scowl. Think twice before shooting someone a dirty look or a cruel remark. What if that was the last thing you said to them? Whatever your harsh feelings are in the moment, it’s not worth a lifetime of regret. 
To all who may read this with whom I have a negative past (you know who you are): I hereby absolve you of all the faults that I have ever held against you. From this point forward, I consider our relationship a clean slate and hope that you may find it within yourself to extend me the same courtesy, in hopes that we may move forward as at least gentle, amicable acquaintances. 
To Maggy: Rest in peace, you beautiful girl. Thank you, through life and now even through death, for teaching me the virtues and wisdom that made you such a wonderful person. 
It’s not goodbye. It’s, “I’ll see you later.” 
Sarah Gatens 
senior off campus Aug. 29 
A response from Athletics 
Dear Observer Editor: 

Some important items were raised in the Viewpoint letter dated Aug. 24 (“Athletic Department needs to use honest marketing”) regarding the marketing of Athletics at Notre Dame.  The Athletic Department would like to make readers of The Observer aware of the information below. 
In reference to football tickets, the University has a very long­standing tradition of offering tickets to the student body at a minimum 50 percent discount.  The affordability and tradition of football tickets for our student body is critical to the Athletic Department and University as a whole.  Student tickets for the 2011 season for the junior class, were $210, plus a discounted $5 service charge, not $250 as stated in the letter.  This represents a 
52.22 percent discount, including the service charge. 
The concerns regarding the Mike Lee boxing tickets are im­portant.  Tickets for the event are discounted to $15 for students. Additional fees are assessed for Internet and phone ticket orders. Based on the information provided it does not appear as though the service charge details were adequately communicated in our marketing materials to the student body.  Mike Lee boxing tickets purchased in person are $15 for students.  Service charges for tickets purchased by students to the fight over the Internet will be refunded.  Ticket purchasers should be aware that service charges are assessed for Internet and phone transactions in order to cover the costs of making tickets available through those medi­ums.  Future communications will reflect service charge informa­tion more clearly. 
The Athletic Department sincerely appreciates the support of our students, alumni, faculty, staff, season ticket holders and fans. 
Josh Berlo 
Senior Assistant Athletic Director Department of Athletics Aug. 28 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


By ALEXANDRA KILPATRICK group of pioneers on the Oregon Trail Scene Writer in 1845. Frontiersman Stephen Meek (Bruce Greenwood) leads a wagon Seldom does a period drama speak train on an ill-fated journey through to a contemporary audience in a re-the desert to find a route called the latable way, but Meek’s Cutoff does Meek Cutoff. The film also stars Mi-just that. chelle Williams as Emily Tetherow 
Kelly Reichardt’s drama is brilliant-and Paul Dano as Thomas Gately. ly cast and directed, with cinematog-Tensions rise throughout the course raphy that enables the audience to of the Oregon High Desert journey as feel in the moment of the actual his-the settlers realize that their guide is torical event. “Meek’s Cutoff” gained unintentionally leading them astray. much critical acclaim and competed Water and food supplies quickly be-for the Golden Lion at the 67th Venice come scarce as what was meant to be International Film Festival. only a two-week trip stretches to five. 
Reichardt is an acclaimed screen-Gender relations are also addressed writer and director within the Ameri-as the wives allow their husbands to can indie film industry, often creating make all significant decisions. None-dramas that fall in the minimalist theless, a question of power becomes movement. Her 1994 debut “River of a matter of survival as the pioneers Grass” was nominated for three Inde-come to terms with their lack of es-pendent Spirit Awards and the Grand sential resources. Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Fes-Rotten Tomatoes describes the film tival. as “moving at a contemplative speed 
Since then, she released 1999’s unseen in most Westerns ... ‘Meek’s “Ode,” based on Herman Raucher’s Cutoff’ is an effective, intense journey novel “Ode to Billie Joe,” and two of terror and survival in the untamed short films, 2001’s “Then a Year” and frontier.” 2004’s “Travis” about the Iraq War. The DeBartolo Performing Arts 
Her 2006 film “Old Joy” features Center will show “Meek’s Cutoff” this actor Daniel London and singer-song-weekend. writer Will Oldham as two friends who journey to the Cascades and Contact alex Kilpatrick at Bagby Hot Springs near Portland for akilpatr@nd.edu a camping trip. The drama, based on a short story by Jon Raymond, won awards from the Los Angeles Film Critics Association, Rotterdam In-On campus ternational Film Festival, Sarasota Film Festival and Independent Spirit 
What: “Meek’s Cutoff” 
Awards. 
Where: DeBartolo Performing 

Reichardt’s 2008 film “Wendy and 
Arts Center 

Lucy,” also based on a Jon Raymond 
When: Sept. 1 and 2 

story, earned Oscar buzz for lead 
How Much: $3 for students 

actress Michelle Williams and was 
Learn More: www. 

nominated for two Independent Spirit 
performingarts.nd.edu 

Awards including Best Film. Reichardt’s newest drama, the 2010 western film “Meek’s Cutoff,” follows a 


Photo Courtesy of Ossciloscope Laboratories 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 


LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

New York Times reports Texas A&M will leave Big 12 
Associated Press  received a letter from Big 12  Texas A&M to remain in the  league last July. Loftin has said  In the letter Loftin sent to  
COLLEGE STATION, Texas  — The New York Times is re­porting Texas A&M has notified the Big 12 it will withdraw from the conference. Big 12 Commissioner Dan Beebe sent Texas A&M a letter on Monday outlining the with­drawal procedure should the Aggies decide to leave the con­ference. The newspaper reported on its website Monday night that Texas A&M President R. Bowen Loftin sent a letter to Missouri Chancellor and Big 12 board chairman Brady Deaton to in­form the league it was leaving. The New York Times story cited two unidentified college officials with direct knowledge of the decision. Texas A&M’s departure would cast doubt on the future of the Big 12 and could lead to more major changes to college athletics. Earlier in the day, Texas A&M  Commissioner Dan Beebe out­lining the withdrawal proce­dure should the Aggies decide to leave the league. University spokesman Jason Cook said the letter “outlines the withdrawal procedures ac­cording to the financial provi­sions of the Big 12 bylaws and mutual waivers of legal claims.” Cook wouldn’t provide any other details of the letter or comment on what A&M’s next step might be. The Aggies are interested in joining the Southeastern Con­ference and the letter comes less than a week after they for­mally told Beebe they are ex­ploring their options and asked for the conference to outline the process if they decide to leave. The league’s board of directors addressed the possible depar­ture of the Aggies this weekend. “I certainly appreciate the discussion among the Big 12 presidents/chancellors and the expression of their desire for  conference,” Loftin said in a statement. “We all agree that Texas A&M is an extremely valuable institution; thus, it is incumbent upon me, as the president of the university, to ensure that we are in a position to enhance our national visibil­ity and future financial oppor­tunity.” Loftin added this is a “com­plex and long-term decision,” but “it is not our intent to pro­long our conference exploration for an extended period of time.” The SEC said earlier this month it was happy with its cur­rent 12-school membership but left the door open to expansion. Loftin then received authority from the board of regents to take any action he deems nec­essary in terms of realignment. There is concern that a de­parture by the Aggies could jeopardize the future of the Big 12, which is down to 10 teams after Nebraska (Big Ten) and Colorado (Pac-12) left the  the Aggies would consider how the Big 12 last week, he said their departure would impact if the Aggies leave, they would the future of want to do it Big 12 before in a manner “We all agree that any decision is that complies made. Texas A&M is an with league by-The Big 12 extremely valuable laws. He also would need institution; thus, it has said finan­to find a team is incumbent upon cial concerns to replace the me, as the president will factor into Aggies if they any decision of the university, to exit the confer-to leave; the ensure that we are in ence and there school likely a position to enhance has been a lot would face an our national visibility of speculation exit fee. and future financial about possible The Big 12, schools. So far, opportunity.” including Texas the only school A&M, agreed to publicly ex-to a 13-year press interest R. Bowen Loftin television deal in moving to with Fox Sports president the Big 12 is in April worth Texas A&M SMU. Athletics more than $1 director Steve billion. There Orsini said he’s had informal is a chance the contract could talks with Big 12 officials for be voided if the Aggies leave the some time to inform them of conference, which could lead to the school’s improvements and legal issues for Texas A&M and growth. its new league.  

TENNIS 

Sharapova advances to second round at U.S. Open 
Associated Press eru of Romania. cause of a virus. “And it’s great Kvitova is the first reigning to see a lot of those balls land 
NEW YORK — Maria Sharapo-Wimbledon women’s champion in.” va came back from a set and a to lose her first match at the U.S. In the day’s last match in Ar-break down against 19-year-old Open in the same season. Only thur Ashe Stadium, 16-time ma-Heather Watson of Britain to three times had the Wimble-jor winner Roger Federer was win 3-6, 7-5, 6-3 in the opening don winner bowed out as early to face 54th-ranked Santiago round of the U.S. Open on Mon-as the third round in New York: Giraldo of Colombia. day. Sharapova in 2004, Conchita Early winners included No. 8 
“It’s just a matter of belief Martinez in 1994, and Billie Mardy Fish of the United States, within myself, that no matter Jean King in 1973. who beat Tobias Kamke of Ger-



how well or bad or good I’m “This is something new for many 6-2, 6-2, 6-1; No. 9 Tomas playing, or my opponent is play-me,” Kvitova said about her new Berdych of Germany, the 2010 ing, I know I can tough it out,” status as Grand Slam champion. Wimbledon runner-up; No. 13 the No. 3-seeded Sharapova said “I’ve felt a little pressure.” Richard Gasquet of France; after her 2 1/2-hour victory. “No She was the only seeded wom-No. 22 Alexandr Dolgopolov of matter what the situation is, I an to exit on Day 1 of the year’s Ukraine; and No. 27 Marin Cilic and for a little more than a set Novak Djokovic was the only 
have the belief.” last major tournament, joined of Croatia. Monday, Watson seemed quite player to win a set from Ra-That self-confidence comes on the way out by No. 15 Viktor Advancing along with capable of registering another fael Nadal in the tournament, not merely from her success in Troicki of Serbia, a 3-6, 6-3, 4-6, Sharapova to the second round significant surprise. but eventually Nadal wore him three-setters this season, but 7-5, 7-5 loser against Alejandro were No. 2 Vera Zvonareva of Scrambling along the baseline down. also from three Grand Slam Falla of Colombia. Russia, a finalist last year at to get to nearly every ball, Wat-After taking the first set, Wat-
titles, including the 2006 U.S. At night, 2000 and 2001 U.S. Wimbledon and the U.S. Open; son forced Sharapova to hit ex-son broke for a 1-0 lead in the Open. It’s the sort of track re-Open champion Venus Williams 16-year-old Madison Keys — the tra shots in order to win a point. second. That’s when Sharapova cord the 102nd-ranked Watson played her first match in two youngest and, at 455th, lowest-And Sharapova, who said she began to turn things around, 
hopes to have one day; Monday’s months and beat 91st-ranked ranked woman in the draw wasn’t able to practice enough taking four games in a row. Wat-match was only her fifth at a Vesna Dolonts of Russia 6-4, — who beat 37-year-old fellow over the weekend because of son didn’t go away, though, get-major tournament. 6-3. Williams hit six aces and 28 American Jill Craybas 6-2, 6-4; Tropical Storm Irene, kept miss-ting within 4-3 when Sharapova Sharapova won six Grand total winners against the weary and No. 12 Agnieszka Radwan-ing. double-faulted, then holding for 
Slam matches at Wimbledon Dolonts, who spent 12 hours ska of Polan d, who beat her “There’s no doubt that I wasn’t 4-all with the Arthur Ashe Sta-alone this summer, reaching the traveling from Moscow on Mon-younger sister Urszula Radwan-playing my best tennis,” said dium crowd supporting the un­final there before losing to Petra day after having flights canceled ska 6-2, 6-3. Sharapova, who finished with derdog. 
Kvitova. Fresh off that triumph, Saturday and Sunday because of But surprise 2009 U.S. Open a whopping 58 unforced errors, But a double-fault by Watson, Kvitova — a 21-year-old from Tropical Storm Irene. quarterfinalist Melanie Oudin of nearly twice as many as Watson. and two huge return winners 
the Czech Republic seeded No. 5 “My game is built on my serve, the United States lost 6-0, 7-6 (7) “She was smart in making me by Sharapova, helped the Rus­in Flushing Meadows — failed to and of course, I like to follow it to Romina Oprandi of Italy. hit another ball. I was making sian break to end the second set. follow it up, flopping at the U.S. up with a lot of aggressive play,” Sharapova was one of the so many errors out there. She That sent the match to a third Open with a 7-6 (3), 6-3 loss to said Williams, who pulled out of seeded players Oudin stunned stuck to her game plan; she kept set, and Sharapova’s as good as 48th-ranked Alexandra Dulgh-recent tuneup tournaments be-during her run two years ago, grinding.” it gets there. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO LIVE UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
FOR RENT TICKETS PERSONAL 
HERE! 
Don’t go it alone. Set aside faraway hopes. Even as 
we speak, time is running away 

Notre Dame has many resources from us. So seize the day and the B&B for ND/SMC parents by ND in place to assist you. If you moment, and don’t put your faith parents. 10 min from campus. 574-or someone you love needs in the future. 
Beautifully Renovated 4-5bed/2bath Home Walk to 
272-5640 BUYING SEASON TICKETS/ANY Looking to start bible study confidential support or assistance, 
Campus! Off of Eddy St. Priced to 
GAMES group. 10 lesson premillennial please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 -Horace Rent Quickly! 
3BR 2BA or entire house for rent or dispensational viewpoint covering or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more Call Mike 615-419-2892 
ND football. 2 miles from campus. GAs only. entire bible in 1 hour sessions. information, visit ND’s webste at: $350 per bedroom or $1000 for Call 574-277-1659 Happy 21st birthday Erin Wurst!! entire house. Fri 5:00 pm through Call Tom 574-876-8928 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu Have an amazing, well-deserved Sun 2:00 pm. Responsible parties day! call 574-286-0321 
NFL 

Colts’ Manning practices, activated from PUP list 
Manning, will say that yet and since the team’s first training 
Associated Press 
he said again that he won’t play camp practice on Aug. 1 follow-

INDIANAPOLIS — Peyton in Thursday night’s preseason ing the May procedure to repair Manning is back. Whether he is finale at Cincinnati. a nerve in his neck. The Colts ready to play is an open ques-Clearly, though, Manning were facing a Saturday dead­tion. is getting closer. He acknowl-line to make the move or Man-
The Colts activated Manning edged that he is healthy enough ning would have missed Indy’s from the physically unable to right now to take a snap or play first six games. perform list Monday. A few a series to keep his consecutive-Team officials issued a state-hours later, the four-time MVP games streak intact but insists ment that said Manning would pulled on his white No. 18 jer-he won’t. practice on a “scripted” and sey and a helmet, and jogged “Like I said the other night, I controlled basis. Coach Jim onto the practice field, renew-have to be able to competitively Caldwell did not elaborate on ing hopes that he might actu-play,” he said. “I have too much the plan. ally play in the season-opener respect for football. I’ve got to “Obviously, he’s been throw-at Houston on Sept. 11 four be able to compete and to help ing, but nevertheless it’s just go-months after neck surgery. my team win, and that’s what’s ing to be in a limited amount,” 
“That’s kind of been my goal fair to the team, fair to myself.” Caldwell said. “I don’t think it 
all along, trying to get better Manning has started 227 needs a whole lot of explana­and I know everybody’s into consecutive games, including tion, I don’t believe. Scripted predictions and everybody the playoffs, the second-longest means that we kind of know ex-wants to have the breaking streak in NFL history for quar-actly what he’s going to do, pre­news,” an upbeat Manning said. terbacks behind Brett Favre. scribed by his rehab specialist “But I just can’t give you any Of all the numbers Manning and our medical team.” more than what I’m giving you.” has put up over the years, the Manning hadn’t been seen 
What everyone wants to know, streak is the one he has usually much at team headquarters, of course, is whether Manning said means the most. perhaps working out in pri­will be ready. Nobody, including Manning had been on the PUP vate. He was at his playful best 
on Monday, teasing reporters about their memories, poking fun at the circus-like environ-16-year veteran Kerry Collins, The surgery was expected to 
ment surrounding his neck in-who stood alongside Manning keep Manning off the field for jury and suggesting that his in a nationally televised loss six to eight weeks. close friend and center, Jeff to Super Bowl champion Green Instead, the recovery has gone Saturday, was tired of answer-Bay last week. slower than expected, some­
ing questions about him. “(hash)18 to the practice thing Manning has blamed, in 
Team officials have said all field! Soon the leaves will fall/I part, on the 4 1/2-month lock-along that Manning would prac-looked at sideline sat.night n out that kept him away from tice only when doctors cleared saw $30,000,000.00 standing team trainers. 
him and when Manning felt there,my checkbook hurts!,” With Manning ailing, the comfortable, and he again de-Irsay wrote Monday. Manning Colts have been refining backup clined to say specifically what signed a five-year, $90 million plans. Two days after signing was holding him back. contract deal in the offseason to Collins, Painter delivered his 
“I don’t know what HIPAA stay in Indy. best preseason performance stands for, but I believe in it and The next big question is how by going 11 of 21 for 171 yards I practice it,” Manning joked, the Colts will divvy up the with two TD passes and nearly referring to the federal law pro-snaps. led the Colts to their first pre­tecting medical privacy. “So, Manning insists he’ll spend season win in more than two uh, I’ll leave it at that.” the next two weeks continuing years. The fact he has been acti-the rehab and trying to get in But Manning has been the 
vated is not only good news for sync with his teammates. backbone of this team since he Manning, his teammates and But the Colts need Collins to was taken No. 1 overall in 1998. Colts’ fans, but it also eased work with the starters and still He’s thrown for 54,828 yards, some concerns expressed by want Curtis Painter, who re-third all-time behind Favre Jim Irsay. Indy’s team owner mains No. 2 on the depth chart, and Dan Marino, and needs recently wrote on Twitter that to play, too, in case Manning one more TD pass to join Fa-the Colts should be prepared to misses the Houston game. vre (508) and Marino (420) as start the season without Man-“Starting today, I guess I’d be the only members of the NFL’s ning and later posted comments getting quite a few reps,” Col-400-club. He’s led the Colts to a that prompted speculation he lins said. “What the breakdown record-tying nine consecutive 
was trying to convince Favre to will be, I don’t know, because playoff appearances, including come out of retirement. I’m sure they’re going to try and last season when most of his Instead, the Colts signed an-get Peyton back into the swing top weapons went down with other retired quarterback in of things.” injuries. 



SOCCER 

Forlan transfers to Inter Milan 
Associated Press 
MADRID — Diego Forlan is joining Inter Milan after At­letico Madrid agreed to sell the Uruguay striker to the Serie A club. 
Forlan, who will fill the va­cant striker spot left after Sam­uel Eto’o’s departure for Rus­sian club Anzhi Makhachkala, announced his departure from Atletico at a news conference Monday at the club’s Vicente Calderon stadium.
 “It’s not everyday you get the chance to play for Inter Milan at 32. Let’s hope I can meet ex­pectations,” Forlan said. “It’s a great club with great players fighting for major trophies. I hope to adapt quickly.” 
Financial terms of the deal were not announced. Forlan will not be allowed to take part in Champions League play for Inter unless it reaches the knockout stages since he al­ready featured for Atletico in Europa League qualifying this summer. 
Forlan, who was named best player at last year’s World Cup in South Africa after Uruguay reached the semifinals, spent four seasons at Atletico and helped it to the 2010 European Supercup and scored both goals in the 2-1 Europa League final victory. 
“Some moments weren’t great but the majority of years here have been spectacular,” said Forlan, who spent the lat­ter half of his last season out of the starting lineup due to prob­lems with then-coach Quique Sanchez Flores. “But I’m happy with the decision I’ve taken be­cause life goes on, players come and go and you have to accept that. 
“I achieved the objectives we had set out. It was an enormous pleasure to win the titles we did here.” 
The former Manchester Unit­ed and Villarreal striker had two years remaining on his At­letico deal with reports suggest­ing he has agreed to a two-year deal with the Italian club. 
“I go to another great club where I like the project and the expectations they have,” Forlan said. “But these past four years remain a good memory.” 
Forlan scored 96 goals in 198 appearances for Atletico, which he also guided to the Copa del Rey final in 2010. Forlan won the Golden Boot award as Eu­rope’s top goalscorer twice. 
Atletico paid FC Porto 58 million for Colombia striker Radamel Falcao, who arrives with high expectations follow­ing the departures of the club’s fearsome strike partnership of Forlan and Sergio Aguero, who joined Manchester City. 

SOCCER 

Messi leads Barcelona in 5-0 thrashing of Villareal 
BARCELONA, Spain — Lionel Messi and Thiago Alcantara led Barcelona to a dominating 5-0 win over Villarreal on Monday to open the defending champion’s campaign for a fourth straight Spanish league title. 
Despite a makeshift defense and coming off a European Su­per Cup victory just three days before, Barcelona responded to Real Madrid’s 6-0 rout of Zara­goza over the weekend with an­other display of its own beautiful game. 
Thiago and Cesc Fabregas struck before halftime, Alexis Sanchez extended the lead and Messi capped the victory at Camp Nou stadium with a pair of late goals. 
Barcelona has now gone un­defeated in all competitions at home since last season’s home opener. 
“We are very happy consider­ing where we came from,” said coach Pep Guardiola, who has already added two pieces of silverware to Barcelona’s tro­phy case this summer. “This team has demonstrated that it always wants more. The win of the Spanish Supercup gave us an extra push to win more.” 
With starters Carles Puyol, Gerard Pique, Adriano and Maxwell all out with injury, and Dani Alves serving a suspension from last season, Guardiola ex­perimented with a three-man defensive line with Eric Abidal alongside reconverted midfield­ers Javier Mascherano and Ser­gio Busquets. 
Even with the new system and Spanish internationals Xavi Hernandez and David Villa on the bench, Guardiola’s team continued to mesmerize with its possession-based attack. 
“We are Barcelona and we try to win everything,” said Thiago. “I am having a good run of luck with goals and I have to take full advantage of it.” 
Thiago broke through in the 25th when the 20-year-old Spain midfielder received the ball out­side the area and coolly slid for­ward before picking his spot and slotting the ball through a pack of defenders into the right side of the net. 
Reminiscent of Barcelona’s second goal in the European Super Cup on Friday, Messi and Fabregas continued to show the connection they developed as teenage teammates as the Ar­gentine star left Fabregas with only goalkeeper Diego Lopez to 
MLB 

Dickey disposes of Marlins in 2-1 win 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — R.A. Dickey hasn’t been getting many runs lately. This time, two turned out to be enough. 
Dickey pitched seven spotless innings and the New York Mets, back on the field following a two-day break because of Hur­ricane Irene, beat the Florida Marlins 2-1 in the opener of a doubleheader Monday. 
It was Dickey’s seventh con­secutive quality start, the best such streak of his career. Ham­pered by a lack of offensive sup­port, however, he was 0-3 in his previous five outings. 
“R.A. Dickey is one of the most popular guys in the clubhouse, without a question,” Mets man­ager Terry Collins said. “He’s been pitching great. But for him to get a win, there’s a lot of guys happy for him right now.” 
Justin Turner had a run-scoring single and Josh Thole hustled his way to an RBI for the Mets, who have won three straight following a 2-11 skid. Jason Isringhausen struck out all three batters in the eighth and Bobby Parnell gave up a homer to New York nemesis Gaby Sanchez in the ninth be­fore earning his second save. 
A boy in the stands got hurt in the ninth inning when Florida’s Greg Dobbs hit a line drive into the right-field seats, just beyond the New York dugout. Stadium medical workers immediately tended to the boy, who appeared to be hit in the face and was bleeding heavily. Accompanied by his mother, he was carted away in a wheelchair after the game and taken under the stands to an ambulance. 
Following the final out, Turn­er went over from his second base position to wait for the boy by the railing. Turner took off his jersey and handed it over as a souvenir. Dobbs gave the boy a bat, and Collins also came over. 
Ricky Nolasco started the nightcap against New York rookie Dillon Gee. Batting lead-off for the Mets was All-Star shortstop Jose Reyes, activated from the disabled list between games. 
Both teams were playing for the first time since Friday be­cause of Hurricane Irene, which battered the East Coast over the weekend. The Marlins rode out the storm in Philadelphia, then bused up to New York on Sun­day night. 
Dickey (6-11) lost power at his Long Island home during the storm, but was steady on the mound all afternoon. Floating a few 60 mph knuckleballs at the Marlins, he scattered seven hits and walked one while striking out six in his first win since July 25. 
“It’s not the metrics that’s the measurement. If there’s a win or a loss by my name, it has to do with the team who gets the win. That’s what I try to focus on more than anything,” Dickey said. “It felt like a long time, but I didn’t know the exact date.” 
Dickey finally got some good fortune in the sixth when Dobbs lined out to third with runners at the corners and one out. San­chez flied out to end the inning. 
Florida opened the seventh with consecutive singles, but Dickey picked off Mike Cameron at second with an unorthodox move and then worked his way out of the inning. 
round and tap home on the half­time whistle. 
“It’s easy to play with these guys because it is not my first time with them and my football memory is lasting,” Fabregas said. 
While Barcelona was content to strangle Villarreal’s passing game with its control of the ball in the first half, it quickly put the game out of question right out of the break. 
Sanchez netted his first goal in an official game for his new team in the 47th when he latched on to a lobbed pass from Thiago and fired past Lopez into the far side of net. 
Four minutes later Andres Iniesta played Messi through the center of the defense for him to beat Lopez one-on-one. 
The demoralized Villarreal defense collapsed completely in the 74th when another one-touch combination left Thiago alone on the flank to cross for Messi to deflect in his sixth goal in four games. 
For Guardiola, his team’s suc­cess goes through its midfield. 
“It is true that Messi and Cesc look for one another, but Iniesta did so as well. Thiago participat­ed, and Seydou (Keita),” he said. 

“On this team it is inconceivable Over the weekend, Cristiano that if one player makes a run, Ronaldo scored a hat trick to his teammate doesn’t pass him lead Real Madrid to its thrash-the ball.” ing of Zaragoza. 


MLB 

Carp and Ackley lead Seattle to win over Angels 
Lee’s home run, Rodriguez’s 13 strikeouts lift Astros over Pirates; Wells pitches shut-out against the Giants 
Associated Press 20 games. The Angels added another in 
SEATTLE — Mike Carp hit the inning. Vernon Wells sin-a two-run homer in the eighth gled to center followed by Erick inning, lifting the Seattle Mari-Aybar’s RBI double into deep ners to a 5-3 victory over the right-center. Los Angeles Angels on Monday The Mariners tied it in the night. fifth, also with two outs. Su-
Dustin Ackley, who had three zuki doubled into the gap in hits and a pair of RBIs, opened left. Ackley drove a run-scoring the eighth with a double. Carp triple into the gap in right for a then hit the first pitch from Hi-3-3 score. sanori Takahashi (3-3) 432 feet Ackley, who made his big-into a fan’s lap in the second-league debut June 16, has at deck restaurant in left field. least one hit in 46 of his 62 
The drive gave Carp 22 RBIs games. He’s now hitting .291. in August. Danny Tartabull The Angels had something holds the club record with 25 going in the seventh with RBIs in a month, in July 1986. speedy Aybar on first and one 
The loss dropped the Angels out. With Aybar breaking for 3½ games behind idle Texas in second, Peter Bourjos hit a the AL West. line shot to left. Casper Wells 
Tom Wilhelmsen (2-0) earned raced in, caught on the run and the victory with one inning of quickly fired to first to double relief. Brandon League finished up Aybar. the ninth for his 32nd save in Trumbo doubled with two 37 opportunities. outs in the ninth but League 
Angels first baseman Mark induced Wells to ground out to Trumbo hit his team-leading short. 24th home run, a two-run shot in the fourth. Astros 7 Pirates 4 
Ichiro Suzuki had two dou-HOUSTON — Pittsburgh re­bles and extended his hitting liever Jason Grilli felt he wasn’t streak to a season-high 12 at his best Monday night, and it games. showed. 
Suzuki has had 40 career Carlos Lee hit a tiebreaking Martinez tied the score and Lee to take some of his breaking It was the third time this double-digit hitting streaks, three-run homer of in the sev-extended his hitting streak to balls,” Hurdle said. “We swung season Chicago has had four or tied with Pete Rose for the fifth enth inning, Wandy Rodriguez 10 games with his 14th homer at a lot of breaking balls out of more home runs in one game. most since 1918. The others in struck out a career-high 13 and off Jose Veras, putting the As-the zone.” The Cubs have 38 home runs front of him are Ty Cobb (65), the Houston Astros rallied past tros ahead for the first time. Rodriguez (10-9) struck out in August, most in the National Hank Aaron (44), Al Simmons the Pirates 7-4. Veras has pitched well as of the side twice, including the League. 
(42) and Stan Musial (41). Grilli (1-1) allowed two runs late, too, allowing just three fourth. He went seven innings, Lincecum (12-11) lasted six 
Suzuki hit Joel Pineiro’s sec-and walked one in 1 1-3 in-earned runs in his last 13 1-3 walked four and allowed four innings and took the loss, giv­ond pitch of the game for a dou-nings in a situation he normally innings. hits. It was the 10th double-ing him a career-high 11 on the ble that bounced over the right-thrives in. He had made seven Pirates manager Clint Hur-digit strikeout game of Rodri-season. The loss dropped the center wall. Franklin Gutierrez straight scoreless outings cov-dle said the big at-bat of that guez’s career. defending World Series cham­singled to left, moving Suzuki ering nine innings entering the inning was when Grilli hit Jor-Rodriguez had fanned 11 pions five games behind first-to third. Gutierrez later was game. dan Schafer with a pitch with batters previously on three oc-place Arizona in the NL West. caught in rundown. Grilli, who was signed as one out. casions. The way Wells has been 
Ackley, a home run shy of the free agent on July 21, said he Rodriguez (10-9) struck out pitching it didn’t matter what cycle, sent Suzuki home with a wants the ball even though he six of the first nine batters he Cubs 7 Giants 0 Lincecum did. sacrifice fly to left. has worked a lot — 16 appear-faced and didn’t allow a hit SAN FRANCISCO — Randy Wells (6-4) faced only four 
In the second, Miguel Olivo ances in the last month, and he until Josh Harrison led off the Wells pitched a two-hitter for batters over the minimum and opened with a double down the threw 2 2-3 scoreless innings fourth with a double and An-his first career complete game, only allowed two runners to left-field line and eventually Wednesday. drew McCutchen followed with and Chicago hit four home runs reach second base. He matched would score, also on a sacrifice “I’m going out there and his 19th homer. — three off San Francisco ace his season-high of seven strike-fly to left by Kyle Seager for a grinding,” Grilli said. “I didn’t Neil Walker doubled and Tim Lincecum — as the Cubs outs and walked one while win­2-0 lead. have it tonight. I didn’t have my Ryan Doumit drove in the third beat the Giants 7-0 on Monday ning his third consecutive start 
Trumbo tied it with two outs breaking ball. My velocity was run with a double. Rodriguez night. on the road. The right-hander, in the fourth. Torii Hunter a little down. I was a little tired then walked Matt Diaz before Alfonso Soriano, Geovany who hasn’t lost since July 28, singled just before Trumbo the second inning. That’s on finding his control again and Soto, Blake DeWitt and Carlos improved to 2-1 in four career launched his ball off the left-me. I’ll take credit for not get-striking out the next three. Pena all went deep for the Cubs, starts against the Giants. field upper-deck facade, on a ting out the situation I’ve been “The game plan is that he’s who snapped a four-game los-San Francisco managed only 1-0 pitch from Blake Beavan. getting out of.” going to pitch away his fastball ing streak and won for only the a two-out double by Andres The Angels have had at least Trailing 3-2 in the seventh, a and try to spin his breaking second time in their last nine Torres in the third and Mike one home run in 19 of their last fielder’s choice grounder by J.D. ball, and you have to find a way games. Fontenot’s pinch-hit single 

with one out in the eighth. 
That continues to be a big problem for the Giants, who went into August with a two-game lead in the division. Now San Francisco needs a strong finish to avoid missing out on the postseason altogether. 
The Giants are five games back of the Diamondbacks with 27 games to play. At the same point a year ago, they were three games out of the division lead before going 18-8 in Sep­tember. 
Lincecum, a two-time NL Cy Young Award winner, had al­lowed only five runs over his previous five starts. He pitched out of jams in the first and sixth but gave up solo home runs to Soriano and Soto be­fore DeWitt’s three-run blast in the seventh. 
Soriano’s home run was his 23rd of the season, one shy of tying Pena and Aramis Ramirez for the team lead. 
Soto’s homer, leading off the seventh, snapped an 0-for-25 streak by the Cubs’ catcher. 
Lincecum finished with four walks and four strikeouts. He needs seven more to reach 200 for the fourth consecutive sea­son. 
Pena hit his 24th homer off reliever Steve Edlefsen in the seventh. 


Senior 
continued from page 16 
achievements to a new level in their final campaign. 
Velarde, Hirt and Sullivan made key contributions for the Irish last year, each placing in several of the team’s meets, in­cluding the Pre-NCAA Meet, the Big East Meet and the NCAA Great Lakes Regional Meet. The six seniors also enjoyed victory at the regional meet as sopho­mores, when the team came from behind and placed first. 
It has not always been an easy road for the class of 2012, as they have faced injuries and lost teammates that have quit the team along the way. 
“When my class came in as freshmen, there were 12 of us. Through the years we’ve unfor­tunately lost some really great girls,” Velarde said. “I think what makes our class unique and what sets us apart is that we’ve had a lot of injuries and setbacks, but we’ve just worked harder and harder and been able to help the team. I think it’s made us better people in general.” 
This class has transformed from timid freshmen to bona fide leaders over the last three years. 
“Coming in as freshman, it’s a very different experience than high school or any previous ex­perience, and all of us wanted to contribute to the team to make it the best it could be,” Velarde said. “As the years progressed and we got older, we had to try to take on leadership roles, not just by example, but by being vocal leaders. 
“We couldn’t be following anymore,” she said. “We had to try to help the younger kids suc­ceed.” 
Velarde said their camarade­rie has also aided their success. 
“Being with these girls, we’re friends on and off the course,” she said. “To be in the sport that we’re in, you have to have so much love for your teammates, and [ours] can be seen both on and off the course.” 
Under the leadership of the senior class, Velarde has set high standards for the Irish. 
“Our goals for this season are to finish top-4 in the Big East, win [the Great Lakes Region], and finish top-15 in Nationals,” she said. 
The first meet of the year for the men and women is Friday at Valparaiso’s Crusader Invita­tional in Valparaiso, Ind. 
Contact laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 


Powers 
continued from page 16 
get us to the next level.” 
Clark, whom Powers calls not only his coach but also a men­tor, said the captains have done a tremendous job since taking over the team’s leadership posi­tions. 
“Dillon is a very positive and influential player on this team,” Clark said. “He came in as just a good player and is growing in authority. He is learning to grab the game by the scruff of the neck and really influence games.” 
A year ago, Powers, who mod­els his game after Barcelona midfielder Xavi, tallied four goals and 12 points while start­ing in each game. In his career, he has played in 38 games and compiled 17 points as the cen­tral midfielder. 
“It’s something I’ve always liked to do to set the pace of the game,” Powers said. “When I dictate the pace, it’s fun.” 
Despite everything Powers has achieved to date, he said there is still a box left to check­off on the to-do list. 
“A national championship is always the goal and I believe we can do it this year,” he said. “I’m still waiting for my great­est moment.” 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
Love 
continued from page 16 

“Part of the reason that I played [tennis] was because I lived all over,” Andrews said. “I lived in Mexico and I actu­ing to me and expressing in­terest, which I thought was really cool. One of the main reasons I came here was the academics mixed with great coaches. [Head coach Bob Bayliss and Sachire are] great coaches [and] they know their tennis, but they’re ments to his game heading into his sophomore season. 
“The thing I’ve struggled with the most is I didn’t come in very well-rounded and we’ve been working on that since I got here, particularly on the backhand and serve,” he said. “I’ve been working on those [two shots] and want to continue working on those moving forward.” 
Andrews is hoping those improvements will result in an increased performance, enough to move him into the individual national rankings. 
“For myself, I didn’t get a ranking last year,” Andrews said. “I didn’t crack the top­125 and I’d really like to change that this year and at the very least get ranked. And hopefully, get a pretty good ranking, maybe in the top-60.” 
But beyond that, he’s also looking for another grand accomplishment: a team Big East championship. 
“I think there’s absolutely no reason we can’t win the Big East championship this year,” he said. “We definitely have the talent and it’s been awhile since we’ve won one, so we’re definitely pretty hungry.” 
Andrews and the Irish open their season Sept. 16 at the Olympia Fields Invitational in Olympia Fields, Ill. 
Contact Sam Gans at  sgans@nd.edu 
ally started playing in Mexico. Then I moved to Texas and then Eng­land. And tennis is really one of the only sports they have in all those plac­es.” 
Andrews began play­ing ten­nis at five-years -old for fun. By age 11, he was playing 

“I think there’s absolutely no reason we can’t win the Big East championship this year.” 
Greg Andrews sophomore singles player 
just great guys, too.” 
Despite a strong junior career, An­drew still had to make quite an adjust­ment to col­lege life. 
“You’re re­ally just kind of out there on your own before college and when you get to college it’s just such a different at­mosphere,” he said. “Where we play at is 

competitively. Eventually, An­drews made his name known as one of the top players in the country on the high school junior circuit. His strong play led to interest from Notre Dame early in the recruiting process. 
“[Associate head coach] Ryan Sachire contacted me really early,” Andrews said. “I started my junior year 
and they were already talk-a lot louder and you’re not just playing for yourself any­more.” 
Despite the challenges, Andrews successfully made the transition. He played well enough for the Irish in his rookie campaign to earn the Big East Freshman of the Year award. Even with this accomplishment, however, the accounting major is still looking to make improve-our great academic reputa­tion and our great facilities, I think that makes us one of the best package deals in the country.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
Future 
continued from page 16 

already championship-win­ning foundation. 
But she said the biggest fac­tors in recruiting may have nothing to do with the coach. 
“Over the past five years here we’ve brought in some of the best golfers in the country, and that makes other top golf­ers want to come here, too,” Holt said. “When you add in 




DAVID HOyT AND JEFF KNUREK 


____________________ 
Tuesday, August 30, 2011 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Super Powers 
Junior midfielder, captain Dillon Powers takes skills to national soccer team, rap game 

By MATTHEW DeFRANKS          
Sports Writer 
Not many people can claim hip-hop mogul Kanye West, musical legend Stevie Wonder and Irish coach Bobby Clark as inspiration in their lives. For Irish junior midfielder Dil­lon Powers, all three have in­fluenced his life on and off the field. 
Powers, who returns for his third season with the Irish this year, is not only a soccer player, but also a music producer. 
Senior defender Aaron Maund and midfielder Michael Rose, along with Powers, form most of the Dallas-based hip-hop group Luck or Skill. In high school, Powers formed the group with Michigan State student Chris Burgess and has since added his teammates to the band. 
Though they’re close off the field, Powers and Maund are even closer on. Both play in the center and both earned pre­season All-Big East and All-American honors. 
Powers also played with the U-20 United States National Team in both 2009 and 2011. 
“Playing for your country is always a great honor,” Powers said. “To represent your coun­try on any stage is an indescrib­able feeling. It was a great ex­perience.” 
Mike Powers coached his son and junior Irish defender Grant Van De Casteele on club team Andromeda F. 
Clark said Powers’ national team experience helped pre­pare both Powers and Van De Casteele for college play. 
“I give the credit to Mike Pow­ers for Dillon and Grant,” Clark said. 
The junior political science major is one of the three elected Irish captains this season. Pow­ers shares the captaincy with fifth-year defender Greg Kla­zura and Maund. 
“It’s a huge honor to be voted by teammates,” Powers said. “It’s an exciting opportunity to lead this team and, hopefully, 
see POWERS/page 14 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish coach Holt puts emphasis on recruiting future 
By JACK HEFFERON offer here at Notre Dame,” Holt strong and Kelli Oride. be juggling between coaching still continues to recruit ac-Sports Writer said. “It allows us to recruit “[Armstrong and Oride] have her current players and re-tively. While particular details 
anybody and bring in the best done a good job with the tran-cruiting her future ones. Right on next year’s freshmen won’t 
When taking over a new pro-golfers in the country.” sition so far, but it’s been kind now, the emphasis in recruit-be available for a few months, gram, Division I coaches are That success in recruiting of hectic for them,” Holt said. ing is on preparing to commu-Holt and her staff have already usually not assessed — posi-was key for the Irish last sea-“They haven’t even been here nicate with high school juniors. gotten soft commitments from tively or negatively — on the son, as they claimed the Big a week, and they’re still ad-“Sept. 1 is the big date right a couple of athletes. talent of players they inherited East championship behind the justing to the way we do things now, that’s when we can reach “We’ve gotten two verbal from a previous staff. They of-strength of four former top-25 here. But we still expect them out to the class of 2013,” Holt commitments already, but we ten bring in “their players” be-recruits. Senior captain Becca make the immediate impact we said. “We’ve heard from a lot of can’t talk about them or their fore being judged. Huffer is the top returner from hoped they would.” them, but we haven’t been able impact until they sign in No-
But Irish coach Susan Holt that team, and senior Katie Al-That learning process will to talk to them yet. We’ve been vember,” Holt said. has reeled in top prospects from lare and sophomore Kristina have to be a speedy one, as working hard on getting all With the success she has had the recruiting trail to build suc-Nhim are back as well. With Notre Dame’s fall schedule be-the information that we’ll need in bringing athletes to Notre cess with both the old and the only five golfers on the roster gins in less than three weeks at then put it together.” Dame, Holt appears to be build-new during her five years at the though, the team will have to the Golfweek Conference Chal-More immediate in the pro-ing for the future on top of an helm. rely heavily on their newest re-lenge. While the team gears up gram’s future are this year’s 
“We have a great package to cruits, freshmen Ashley Arm-for play though, Holt will still high school seniors, who Holt see FUTURE/page 14 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Traveling inspires singles player 
By SAM GANS                              
Sports Writer 
For many kids, moving to multiple countries at a young age would stunt the pursuit of their goals and dreams, but for Irish sophomore Greg Andrews, it helped pave the road to his future. 
Andrews, who enters the sea­son as the likely incumbent to the No. 2 singles slot on Notre Dame’s roster, graduated from Gull Lake High School near Ka­lamazoo, Mich. But before that, living in diverse places helped facilitate a love for the game of tennis. 
see LOVE/page14 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Seniors lead team to top-10 rankings 
By LAURA COLETTI                              
Sports Writer 
When preseason rank­ings were released, the Irish once again found themselves 
among  the  region’s  elite  
teams.  
The  United  States  Track  

and Field and Cross Country Coaches Association released preseason poll results Mon­day, and both the men’s and women’s teams have spots in the top-10 of the Great Lakes Region. The men are ranked fourth, behind Wisconsin, In­diana and Ohio State, respec­tively. The women come in at sixth, behind Michigan, To­ledo, Michigan State, Indiana and Ohio State. 
The expected success of the women’s squad, which fin­ished last season ranked sixth, is due to its senior class. 
Senior captain Rachel Velar­de, and seniors Gena Bleyer, Molly Hirt, Kari Johnson, Al­lison Schroeder and Susanna Sullivan have enjoyed success during the course of their first three seasons at Notre Dame and intend to take their 
see SENIOR/page 14 







