the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


London rioting causes concern 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
Study abroad students depart­ing for London tomorrow will need to be conscious of safety in a way that past students of Notre Dame’s 29-year-old pro­gram have not. 
Weeks before Notre Dame stu­dents were scheduled to leave for their semesters abroad, vio­lent riots spread through parts of London and Birmingham, raising questions about stu­dents’ safety traveling both to and within the city. 
The rioting did not affect the Waterloo or Trafalgar Square areas, where the Notre Dame student residence and class­room building are located, but staffs of the London Program and Office of International Studies (OIS) are still taking the 
see LONDON/page 6 

Ex-coach charged with felony 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
The St. Joseph County Prosecutor’s office filed felony charges Aug. 16 against for­mer Irish assistant football coach Corwin Brown after a seven-hour standoff at his Granger home earlier that week. 
Brown was charged with domestic violence, a Class D felony, and two counts of con­finement, according to court documents. The two confine­ment charges are Class C and Class B felonies. 
St. Joseph County Police responded to a call from Melissa Brown, Corwin Brown’s wife, about domestic violence at the home Aug. 12. Law enforcement arrived at the home in early afternoon and remained outside the res­idence for nearly seven hours, 
see VIOLENCE/page 8 


Students spend summer serving 
Students travel across the globe to serve in internships and non-profit work 

Hendricks said seeing the vast socio-economic differences between the townships of native Xhosa people and the large British homesteads, held by 10 percent of the country, was diffi­cult. 
“You see very wealthy Western elements and then tribal African people,” he said. “South Africa is very unique in that disparity.” 
Like Hendricks, junior Connor Wathen spent the majority of his summer in Africa. Wathen, a Sorin College resident, said each summer the dorm sends one stu­dent to stay with Holy Cross priests in Uganda through Notre Dame’s International Summer Service Learning Program (ISSLP). 
During his eight weeks in Uganda, Wathen taught math, sci­ence and physical education at St. Jude’s Primary School. He also worked at St. Benedict’s Center, a 
see SUMMER/page 6 




SMC selected as ‘Best in the Midwest’ 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 

The Princeton Review once again named Saint Mary’s College among the “Best in the Midwest,” a list of top colleges in the area pub­lished over the summer. 
“To be recognized for what we do best — educating women, in a rigorous aca­demic environment, to make a difference in the world — is meaningful to the College,” Mona Bowe, vice president for enrollment management, said. 
The recognition is an honor the College has been awarded every year since the list’s inception nine years ago. 
Saint Mary’s was one of 153 schools on the “Best in the Midwest” list, which was published in August. The Midwest region represents 12 states, and the Princeton Review also lists schools from the Northeast, West 
see BEST/page 6 



By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students broke out of South Bend this summer to work at internships and service projects around the globe, rang­ing from semi-rural African town­ships to urban New York City. 
Junior Sean Hendricks traveled to South Africa through the Kellogg Institute to work at the Open Arms Home for Children orphanage for nine weeks. 
Hendricks started an internship program for the older residents at the orphanage, which is home to 40 children, allowing them to explore careers with local busi­nesses. 
“They could see the various jobs they could have one day, whether in a dairy farm, factory or mar­ket,” he said. “They had no par­ents to teach them about the industries that exist there and how to enter them.” 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Engineers build bridges page 3  Viewpoint page 10  Merchant of Venice page 12  Dayne Crist named quarterback page 24 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, August 24, 2011 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud 
NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle 
Sam Stryker 

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jason Taulman 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 

OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Molly Sammon Nicole Toczauer Sam Gans Jillian Barwick Vicky Jacobsen 

Graphics Scene 
Lisa Hoeynck Mary Claire Photo O’Donnell Susanna Pratt Viewpoint Amber Galik 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS Y UR SUMMER ANTHEM? 









Erica Vesnaver  Andrea Hawkins  Ann Kebede  Sarah Schluckebier  Valerie Williams  Ellen Roof  
senior  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  
Farley  Pangborn  Pangborn  Pangborn  Pangborn  Pangborn  
“Be God’s.”  “Party Rock  “Party Rock  “Party Rock  “Party Rock  “Party Rock  
Anthem.”  Anthem.”  Anthem.”  Anthem.”  Anthem.”  


ASHLEY DACY/The Observer 

Students, faculty and other members of the Notre Dame community gather to celebrate the beginning of a new academic year at the annual Mass. 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
Today from 12:30 to 2 p.m., new graduate students can come to the Hesburgh Library in room 222 for an orientation to learn about library services and collections, and meet with your subject library. Light refreshments will be served. 
From 4 to 5 p.m., join Patrick Murphy, the managing director of cSEND for the Physics Colloquium: “Research and Education Oportunities with the Center for Sustainable Energy at Notre Dame. The event will be held at 118 Niewland Science Hall. 
Campus Ministry is hosting an open house tonight from 6 to 8 p.m. Come and meet the staff and get free food, raffle prizes and giveaways at the Coleman-Morse Center 
Tonight from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m., the Notre Dame Shakespeare Festival and Mainstage Production present “The Merchant of Venice” at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets will cost between $12 and $20. 
Come join your fellow Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross College students at the Backyard BBQ, from 9 p.m. till midnight. Enjoy free grilled food as well as cornhole with your friends. Festivities will be held on North Quad and are completely free. 
“Try It You’ll Like It” FREE Fitness Classes continues this week in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. During this week, you can test out any class for free. If you enjoy it, registration begins Aug. 25 at 
7:30 a.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
OFFBEAT 

Woman, 90, beats back burglars with cane 
BERLIN — A feisty 90-year­old German woman chased away three would-be bur­glars from her rural farm­house with her cane, police said Monday. 
The retired farmer was moving around her house with the help of a walking frame and spotted the intruders — two men and one woman. 
She grabbed her cane and started beating the burglars with it. The trio fled the house in a town outside Muenster. 
“It was quite courageous of her,” a police spokeswoman said. “But on the other hand it was also quite dangerous. She was quite fortunate that nothing serious happened.” 
Reindeer herder finds baby mammoth in Russia Arctic 
MOSCOW — A reindeer herder in Russia’s Arctic has stumbled on the pre-historic remains of a baby woolly mammoth poking out of the permafrost, local officials said on Friday. 
The herder said the carcass was as perfectly preserved as the 40,000-year-old mam­moth calf Lyuba discovered in the same remote region four years ago, authorities said, adding that an expedition had set off hoping to confirm the “sensational” find. 
“If it is true what is said about how it is preserved, this will be another sensation of global significance,” expedition leader Natalia Fyodorova said in a statement on the Arctic Yamalo-Nenetsk region’s offi­cial website. 
Scientists planned to fly the mammoth’s remains to the regional capital Salekhard, where it would be stored in a cooler to prevent the remains from decomposing. 
Giant woolly mammoths have been extinct since the Earth’s last Ice Age 1.8 million to around 11,500 years ago. 
Scientists worldwide were stunned by the discovery of Lyuba, named after the wife of the hunter who discovered her. 
Arctic ice kept the extinct specimen so immaculately preserved that although her shaggy coat was gone, her skin and internal organs were intact. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
LOCAL WEATHER 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
LOW 70 LOW 64 LOW 57 LOW 59 LOW 61 LOW 57 


Wednesday, August 24, 2011 The Observer  NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 




Engineering students travel to build bridges 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
A team of seven engineering students traveled to Nicaragua this summer to build a bridge connecting two communities — all in an effort to provide help to locals and take advantage of service projects for engineers at the University. 
“There’s not that many oppor­tunities at Notre Dame to link service with engineering, sur­prisingly,” team member and first-year graduate student Brittani Russell said. “This is one of the only ones.” 
The project, which just fin­ished its third year, teams up with the non-profit organization Bridges to Prosperity to allow civil engineering students to travel to a third-world country and build a bridge for an area that needs it. The group has pre­viously built structures in Honduras and Guatemala. 
Russell and the six others par­ticipated in a year-long course during which they designed the bridge and fundraised $30,000 for the materials and other costs. 
The course required two trips to Nicaragua, one during fall break in which the team sur­veyed the site and one after the semester ended in May to build the bridge. 
During the first trip, the group was not only able to begin plan­ning how they were going to build the bridge, but they also met with local hardware stores to discuss buying supplies. 
“It also gave us a little indica­tion of how hot it was going to be,” Russell said. “I never really had an appreciation or under­standing of how much you can sweat.” 
The bridge, located in the municipality of Villa el Carmen between the villages of San Diego and San Bartolo, stretched 125 meters across and was 60 feet off the ground. 
Community members worked alongside the students during construction, Russell said. 
“If we come in and build some­thing for them it’s not going to mean the same thing, they’re going to take it for granted,” she said. “Whereas if they help us it’s their bridge, they’ll take more responsibility and the bridge will last longer.” 
However, the local people and customs also posed a challenge for the group. Russell said the way construction projects run in Honduras differs greatly from those in the U.S. 
“One of the representatives [of Bridges to Prosperity] had ordered wood for us, but didn’t get a receipt or contract. He just gave them $1,000 of our money,” she said. “We were tracking that wood down for two or three weeks.” 
While adjusting to the culture wasn’t difficult for native Guatemalan and team member Quiche Descamps, actually building the bridge was a chal­lenge. 
“Raising the cables took a lot of manpower, and digging under the midday sun left everyone exhausted,” Descamps, a senior, said. 

Descamps participated in the project in his home country of Guatemala in the summer of 2010 as well. 
“Building the first bridge really opened my eyes to the potential we as students have to help, using what we learn in school, so I chose to stick with the project for another year,” he said. 
Russell agreed the project pro­vides a truly rewarding experi­ence in which the team can see their work through, from design to completion and the impact it will have on the people living their everyday. 
“It’s amazing to see how your work can benefit other commu­nities,” she said. “I’ve been to developing countries before and you can really see how civil infrastructure can help.” 


Contact Mel Flanagan at melfanag3@nd.edu 





Updates just           got updated. 
Share it faster with the HTC Status,™ the only phone with a Facebook® share button. 
Introducing the HTC Status


$49.99 
with 2-year wireless svc agreement on voice & minimum $15/mo. data plan required. 
Only from AT&T. 
FREE SHIPPING |  1.866.MOBILITY – ATT.COM/HTCSTATUS –VISIT A STORE 
Don’t miss your last chance to get tickets to the B100 17th Birthday Party! 
SPECIAL 

Visit AT&T at Eddy Street Commons, across from the Notre Dame campus. 

EVENT 

Saturday, September 10, 9AM–11AM 
AT&T STORES ! Mishawaka4170 Grape Rd., ! Plymouth1440 Pilgrim Ln., ! Warsaw3638 E. Commerce Dr., ! Three Rivers713 S. U.S. 31, 
(574)252-2328 (574) 936-3024 (574) 267-2231 (269) 279-9862 
INDIANA 

! Mishawaka/South BendUniversity Park ! South Bend1121 E. Ireland Rd., 
MICHIGAN

! Elkhart2707 Cassopolis St., " Servicio en Espanol
Mall, 6501 N Grape Road, (574) 231-8035 
(574)262-4041 ! Niles2726 S. 11th Ave., (269) 684-6794 ! Open Sunday
(Located in the Food Court), ! Eddy Street Commons, 1124 Angela Blvd., 
"! Goshen4568 Elkhart Rd., ! Sturgis1376 S. Centreville Rd., 
(574) 243-8069 (574) 234-7817 (Off Hwy 33, near Meijer), 
(269) 651-5034 (574) 875-9317 
Limited-time offer. Subject to wireless customer agrmt. Credit approval req’d. Activ. fee $36/line. Coverage & svcs, including mobile broadband, not avail everywhere. Geographic, usage & other conditions & restrictions (that may result in svc termination) apply. Taxes & other chrgs apply. Prices & equip. vary by mkt & may not be avail. from ind. retailers. See store or visit att.com for details and coverage map. Early Termination Fee (ETF): None if cancelled during first 30 days, but a $35 restocking fee may apply; after 30 days, ETF up to $325, depending on device (details att.com/equipmentETF). Subject to change. Agents may impose add’l fees. Regulatory Cost Recovery Charge up to $1.25/mo. is chrg’d to help defray costs of complying with gov’t obligations & chrgs on AT&T & is not a tax or gov’t req’d chrg. Offer Details: HTC Status price with 2-year wireless svc agreement on voice & minimum $15/mo. data plan required is $49.99. Smartphone Data Plan Requirement: Min.15/mo. DataPlus (200MB) plan required; $15 automatically chrg’d for each additional 200MB provided if initial 200MB is exceeded. All data, including overages, must be used in the billing period in which it is provided or be forfeited. For more details on data plans, go to att. com/dataplans. Sales tax calculated based on price of unactivated equipment. Screen images simulated. Facebook is a trademark of Facebook, Inc. ©2011 AT&T Intellectual Property. Service provided by AT&T Mobility. All rights reserved. AT&T and the AT&T logo are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property. All other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners. 
Wednesday, August 24, 2011 The Observer  NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 



Saint Mary’s College welcomes new Board of Trustees 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY Saint Mary’s Editor  Belles Against Violence Office (BAVO) and a resident advisor. According to a press release,  fo r S ai n t M ar y’s C o l l e g e , ” Cleary said. “I believe philoso­pher William James described  the Board are all Saint Mary’s o r N otr e Da m e g ra d ua te s. Wi l lia m C u sh wa , Gr etch e n  Services for Dimensional Fund Adv i so r s in S a nta M o nica , Calif.  
C l e ar y s its  on  t he S t u d e n t  t h e  r ole  of  t h e  B o a r d  o f  Fl i c k e r,  P a t r i c i a  Wiedn e r  Purcell, a 1969 Saint Mary’s  
Five  new  members of the  A d  v  i  s  o r  y  Tru ste e s  bes t  Purcell and David Taiclet will  alumna, received her degree  
S a i n t M a r y ’s B oa rd o f Trustees will join the group  Council for the A m e r i c a n  “I serve on the Board  wh e n he sa i d , ‘The best use of  also join the Board this year. Cushwa, a 1959 graduate of  i n s p e c i a l ser v e d on  e d uca t i on . S h e t he Ma d e l e va  
this year after President Carol  Association of  of Trustees to  life is to invest it  Notre Dame,  was  vice presi- Society Steering Committee  
Ann Mooney appointed them in the spring. Student trustee Catherine  U n i v e r s i t y Wom e n a nd w i ll p l an t h e  articulate student issues and concerns  in s o m e t h i ng that will outlive us.’”  dent of planning and assistant tr e as u rer fo r C o m mer c i al Intertech Corporation until his  a n d a s a Ma de l e va Representative of the Reunion Gift Campaign.  
Cleary, a senior, will begin her one-year term as a full voting member of the Board. Cleary  2011 National Conference for College Women  with a clear and open mind.”  Cleary said as tr us t e es , t hey are dedicated to  r e t ir e men t i n 1 9 9 6 , t he release stated. Since then, Cushwa has been involved in  Taiclet earned a bachelor’s degree in finance from the University of Notre Dame in  
said she will act as a voice for the student body.  S t u d Leaders.  e  n  t  Catherine Cleary  addressing the issues of the six  the South Bend community, working with the South Bend  1985. He currently serves as the president of the Gourmet  
“ I  ser v e  on  t h e  B o a r d  o f  “I am  looking  student trustee  College divisions  Symphony Orchestra and ND  F ood  G r ou p  o f  1-800- 
Trustees to articulate student issues and concerns with a  forward to the challenges that  senior  — s t uden t affairs, academ- Downtown. F l ic ker gr ad u a t e d  f ro m  Flowers.com, Inc. The College also re-elected  
clear and open mind,” Cleary  serving  on  the  ic  af f air s ,  Saint Mary’s with a  degree in  five members of the Board to  
said.  Board this year will bring and  finance and administration,  m a t h e m atics a n d bu si n es s  three-year terms.  
Cleary, who is majoring in  I  am  honored to be working  mission, college relations and  a d m i n i str ati on  in  1993.  
women’s studies, also  serves  with  a  group of individuals  enrollment management.  Currently, she  serves  as  vice  Contact Caitlin Housley at  
as  an  office assistant for the  who  are  invested in  a  future  The other  new  members of  pr e s i d e nt  o f  I ns t i t u t i on al  Chous101@saintmarys.edu  




Workers focus on new building construction 
Word of Life mosaic, known pop-The last time the mural was of the hockey players and a the demands of the community,” 
By ANNA BOARINI 

ularly as “Touchdown Jesus.” refurbished was in the summer place that was accessible and Nevala said. “Student seating 
News Writer 

Doug Schlagel, the director of of 1994. Current maintenance is well utilized by both the campus, capacity has also risen from 600 Construction and Quality expected to be finished some-local and regional community,” to 1,100 seats.” 
When most students move out Assurance, said time in Senior Associate Athletic As students return to campus, for the summer, workers with all of the joints September. Director Tom they will see a scaffolding and construction that hold Building the Nevala said. new project 
“Each summer brings
tools move in to complete reno-together the Compton Family One of the “We wanted two breaking ground. vations and repairs across cam-stones making a multitude of facility Ice Arena was a major differ-South of the 
things: a long-term 
pus. up the mosaic modifcation projects project that ences between Mendoza College 
solution for the needs
“Each summer brings a multi-were removed started last year, this new arena of Business, con-
requested by various
tude of facility modification proj-and replaced, continued over and the previ-of hockey players and struction of the ects requested by various units and the entire units across campus.” the summer and ously used Stayer Center for 
a place that was 
across campus,” University tower received is on schedule arena in the E x e c u t i v e
accessible and well
Architect Doug Marsh said. light pressure for completion in Joyce Athletic Education began 
Tom Nevala 
“These, along with traditionally-washing. October. The and Convocation utilized by both the last month. 
senior associate athletic
scheduled repair and mainte-“Touchdown arena will Center is two campus, local and According to a
director
nance projects, comprise most of Jesus” will not become the new different ice 2008 University 
regional
the summer’s work.” need mainte-home for the rinks. One rink press release, 
One of the larger projects nance for hockey team. is even Olympic community.” the building’s tackled this summer was refur-another 15-20 years after this “We wanted two things: a size, Marsh said. construction is bishing the Hesburgh Library’s project is completed, he said. long-term solution for the needs “There will be funded by a $20 
Tom Nevala 
a weight room million gift by 
senior associate athletic
in the arena for Ralph Stayer, a 
director
use by any var-1965 University sity athletic graduate and team, as well as CEO of cardio equipment and more Johnsonville Sausage. hockey specific training,” Nevala Marsh said the construction is said. on target for completion in the 
The Compton Family Ice spring of 2013. Arena will also hold 5,000 seats. “There will also be more Contact Anna Boarini at standing room capability to meet aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer  NEWS Wednesday, August 24, 2011 


London 
continued from page 1 
necessary safety precautions. “The safety of the students and the assurance of a rich aca­demic and cultural experience during their study abroad ses­sion are our top priorities,” J. Nicholas Entrikin, vice presi­dent and associate provost for internationalization, said in a statement. 
London Program staff will also discuss emergency proto­cols with students when they arrive in London for orienta­tion, Entrikin said. 
He said students set to spend fall semester in London were “fully advised” about added security measures, and that members of the London Program staff were in contact with the students as they made their preparations to go abroad. 
“Students were informed that University of Notre Dame offi­cials were closely monitoring the situation, which remained stable in the vicinity of the London Centre and Conway Hall,” London Program Director Greg Kucich said. 
Junior Meredith Kugar, who will study abroad in London this semester, said her first reaction to the riots was one of concern. 
“I just was kind of … hoping that it wasn’t too close to the ND flats or school buildings in London and that it wouldn’t seriously affect the program at all,” she said. 
But junior Maria Ricaurte, 


Best 
continued from page 1 
and Southeast. 
“We are very pleased to once again be included among the Princeton Review’s ‘Best in the Midwest,’” Carol Ann Mooney, president of Saint Mary’s College, said. “Our commitment to an excellent intellectual and academic experience for our students is unwavering. Our graduates are our best recruiters. Their accomplishments speak vol­umes about the quality of the educational experience they received here.” 
The College has stayed on the list because it has held to the mission set forth at the school’s founding by the Sisters of the Holy Cross in 1844, Bowe said. 
“This is an academic com­munity where women develop their talents and prepare to make a difference in the world,” Bowe said. “Saint Mary’s College promotes a life of intellectual vigor, aes­thetic appreciation, religious who is also headed to London, said the immediate contact from Notre Dame was reassur­ing. 
“We got an email from the school saying our location was­n’t near the majority of [the riots],” she said. “They really emphasized that the security in the flats we’d be staying at is really reliable.” 
Kucich said emergency proto­cols will be developed as need­ed to keep London Program students safe. 
“We are also prepared to transmit police updates on any developing civil disturbance rapidly to students, providing security advice through text messages and emails,” he said. 
Conway Hall, the student res­idence in the Waterloo area, is currently staffed by security personnel 24 hours a day, every day of the week. Security per­sonnel will also man the London Program’s classroom building in Trafalgar Square at all hours for the foreseeable feature, Entrikin said. 
“The London Program has an excellent system for monitoring developments throughout the greater London area,” he said. 
Kucich said the riots will also be discussed in an academic setting. 
“The complex social, eco­nomic, and political forces behind the unrest will become an important area of cultural study,” he said. 
Junior Ben Foley said he is not very concerned about safe­ty, since the program’s class­room building and residence building are both in safe areas of Central London. 

sensibility and social respon­sibility.” 
Bowe said the College is always glad to be included on lists such as “Best in the Midwest,” but in this elec­tronic era, The Princeton Review is not the only place prospective students and their parents look when con­sidering higher education. 
“At one point in time, there were only a handful of reviewers and their reviews carried a lot of weight,” she said. “Now, there are college search engines like Zinch and Cappex that aid students in their quest.” 
Although the Princeton Review is one of many sources that create college and university lists and rat­ings, it is still a recognition that the College, its students, faculty and alumnae are proud of, she said. 
“I think the designation is affirmation to students that they are at an academic excellent school,” Bowe said. “It’s a source of pride for all of us.” 


Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

“As we explore more of London we should be a little more careful, I think,” Foley said. 
Ricaurte agreed that as stu­dents begin to venture out of Central London, they should be more cautious and aware of their surroundings. 
“As we start traveling the suburbs of London, we’re defi­nitely going to take more pre­cautions,” she said. 
The London Program and OIS staffs will continue to monitor circumstances in London, as well as any U.S. State Department information about travel to and within the United Kingdom, Entrikin said. 
As staffs monitor the situa­tion in London, Kucich said any appropriate changes will be made, if necessary, to the London Program. 
“The University of Notre Dame is committed to provid­ing a rich educational experi­ence for students in London while taking all appropriate measures to provide a safe liv­ing and learning environment,” he said. 


Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 


Summer 
continued from page 1 
nearby clinic. 
“We woke up at 6:30 a.m., had toast for breakfast, would walk 20 minutes to school and begin teaching at 8:30 a.m.,” he said. “We’d walk home for lunch and then take a bus to work at the clinic until it closed.” 
The area Wathen stayed in, while semi-urban, was still rural. 
“People grow their own food, and our dinners — chicken and goats — were running around the yard,” he said. “It was really green since we were at the source of the Nile and the corner of Lake Victoria.” 
Adjusting to the region was eas­ier because of the hospitality of its people, Wathen said. The native’s attitude taught him the most dur­ing his stay. 
“You don’t need a lot of things to be happy. They were apprecia­tive for what they had and were extremely happy we were there,” Wathen said. “It put a lot of things into perspective.” 
Senior David Ulery traveled to Kolkata, India, as part of an eight-week ISSLP. Ulery volun­teered with the Missionaries of Charity religious order, founded by Mother Teresa. 
He taught orphans like a 10­year-old boy named Binoy, who was able to recognize English words and read sentences by the end of Ulery’s time there. 
“We would teach for maybe two hours a day. The other four or five hours we’d interact with the other boys who had different mental and physical abilities,” Ulery said. “We would play games, do physical therapy or dance. We had some fun dance parties.” 
While the progress made with Binoy was rewarding, Ulery struggled with the poverty he saw on the streets. 
“Poverty is very real — suffer­ing, starvation and death hap­pens. They need help because people leave them alone in the world,” he said. “In India, a lot of them are abandoned.” 
Junior Ellen Carroll dealt with a different form of suffering during her internship at the Yonkers Branch of the Westchester County District Attorney’s Office in New York City. The most challenging part of the job, rather than the actual work, was handling the subject matter of domestic vio­lence and abuse, she said. 
“I hadn’t realized many of the victims were repeat cases. A woman would be with a man 10 years, press him for charges and take it back,” she said. “The case would be dropped and would often just happen again.” 
However, successfully ending victims’ abuse under the law made this work worthwhile, she said. Carroll said her observa­tions, both good and bad, have helped direct her future plans. 
“I learned I wasn’t qualified yet to save all of these victims of crime, but I felt like I got a better idea of what I want to do,” she said. “I might want to work for a judge next summer, so slightly more fast-paced, or intern with the FBI or CIA.” 
All agreed their experiences have helped them decide what paths they might pursue in the future. 
For Hendricks, this might mean returning to South Africa to expe­rience more of the Xhosa culture. Wathen and Ulery said they found passion in providing medical aid to countries with a severe short­age of doctors. 
Ulery said attitude and open-mindedness are paramount to effectively serving, as well as gaining the most out of the expe­rience. 
“You have to be excited about what you’re doing and fill your service with enthusiasm. The energy you put in equals what you get back from it,” he said. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczauer@nd.edu 



du Lac 
The 2011-2012 edition of 
du Lac: A Guide to Student Life 
is available online: 
dulac.nd.edu 
All students are expected to abide by the University Standards of Conduct available on this website. 
Office of Residence Life 306 Main Building (574) 631-5551 residencelife@nd.edu 
nt:
nt: 

THE CAREER CENTER THANKS THE FOLLOWING SPONSORS FOR MAKING THIS EVENT POSSIBLE: 

Visit The Career Center at: careercenter.nd.edu (574) 631-5200 ndcps@nd.edu 
page 8 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer  NEWS Wednesday, August 24, 2011 
Violence 
continued from page 1 
reports. 
Melissa Brown told police at the scene that her husband became upset with her earlier in the day and threatened her while he had a handgun in his pocket. Police reports state when she tried to flee, Corwin Brown refused to let her leave. The family’s three chil­dren fled from the home as police arrived on the scene, but police said Melissa Brown was still in the home at the time. The children were unin­jured. 
A SWAT team negotiated with Corwin Brown during the standoff because he was armed with a weapon. 
According to the report, Corwin Brown struggled with his wife when she tried to take the handgun from him, and the weapon accidentally discharged. Corwin Brown allowed his wife to leave, the report stated. She suffered minor bruising and swelling on her forehead. 
Officers continued to negoti­ate with the former defensive coordinator during the seven-hour standoff, and the report home after 7 p.m. He suffered from a self-inflicted wound in his side, police said. 
st a t e d  s ev e r a l  g un s ho t  
wounds  were  heard before  
C o r w i n  Br o w n  e x i t e d  t h e  

Corwin Brown was treated at Memorial Hospital for his wound and is currently being held in a secured medical facility, according to St. Joseph County police. A court date has not been set to address his charges. 
Brown was a member of the Notre Dame football staff from 2007 to 2009. He then served as a defensive backs coach with the New England Patriots during the 2010 season, but he was relieved of his duties on the team in February. 
“Corwin’s many friends at Notre Dame have him, Melissa and their children in our prayers during this difficult time,” University spokesman Dennis Brown said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
LIBYA 

Libyan rebels kill loyalist troops in Tripoli, invade city center 
move” after 64 NATO airstrikes now. We have to find him now,” something.” kept the crowd at bay. Inside 
Associated Press 
turned it to rubble. Al-Rai TV said Sohaib Nefati, a rebel sit-Tripoli’s new rebel military the walls, a few bodies of 
TRIPOLI — Hundreds of said Wednesday it would air ting against a wall with a chief, Abdel-Hakim Belhaj, said Gadhafi fighters — one with a Libyan rebels stormed the comments in full and Kalashnikov rifle. at nightfall that a small area of gaping head wound from a Moammar Gadhafi’s compound reported an excerpt in which Abdel-Aziz Shafiya, a 19-the vast compound was still gunshot — were sprawled on Tuesday, charging wildly Gadhafi vowed his forces would year-old rebel dressed in cam-under the control of regime the ground. through the symbolic heart of resist “the aggression with all ouflage with a rocket-propelled fighters and heavy shooting Several young men wrenched the crumbling regime as they strength” until either victory or grenade slung over one shoul-was heard across Tripoli the head from a statue of killed loyalist troops, looted death. der and a Kalashnikov over the toward midnight. Gadhafi and kicked it around. armories and knocked the head His government’s chief other, said the rebels believed The atmosphere in the com-One lifted it above his head off a statue of the besieged dic-spokesman also managed to Gadhafi was inside the com-pound was a mix of joyful cele-while his jubilant comrades tator. But they found no sign of get word out in a phone inter-pound but hiding underground. bration and tension. The air danced and yelled around him. the man himself. view with the same station, “Wasn’t he the one who was thick with smoke from the Fighters with long beards 
The storming of Bab al-promising “we will be back to called us rats? Now he is the battles, and the boom of mor-hugged each other and flashed Aziziya, long the nexus of take Tripoli back.” rat underground,” he said. tars and the crackle of gunfire the “V’’ for victory sign. Others Gadhafi’s power, marked the The rebel force entered the Shafiya said he felt “an was constant. Rebels chanted carried injured rebels to ambu­effective collapse of his 42-compound after fighting for explosion of joy” to be standing “Allahu akbar” or “God is lances. year-old regime. But with five hours with Gadhafi loyal-inside Gadhafi’s stronghold in great” and on loudspeakers A fighter climbed atop the Gadhafi and his powerful sons ists outside, using mortars, the capital after a lightning-they cried: “Al-Hamdullilah,” iconic statue of a huge golden still unaccounted for — and heavy machine guns and anti-quick rebel advance. He had or “Thank God.” fist clenching a model of an gunbattles flaring across the aircraft guns. They killed some left the rebel-held western city As the fighters stormed in, American warplane and shot nervous city — the fighters of those who defended the of Misrata just two days earlier. they captured a guard at the his machine gun in the air in cannot declare victory. compound and hauled off thou-“I lost friends and relatives gates and threw him to the celebration. The statue stands 
Hours after the battle erupt-sands of rifles, crates of and now I can walk into ground, slamming rifle butts outside a building that was ed, a pro-Gadhafi TV channel weapons and trucks with guns Gadhafi’s house,” Shafiya said, into his back. A hostile crowd once Gadhafi’s home, pre­quoted the Libyan leader as mounted on the back in a fren-choking up with emotion. gathered around, punching and served with the pockmarks of saying he retreated from his zy of looting. “Many of my friends have died kicking him until one rebel an American bombing in 1986 Tripoli compound in a “tactical “We’re looking for Gadhafi and now all of that meant stepped in, stood over him and as a symbol of his defiance. 
Wednesday, August 24, 2011 The Observer  NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 9 
Va.’s quake shakes 


U.S. capital, NYC 

Associated Press 
MINERAL, Va. — The most powerful earthquake to strike the East Coast in 67 years shook buildings and rattled nerves from South Carolina to Maine on Tuesday. Frightened office workers spilled into the streets in New York, and parts of the White House, Capitol and Pentagon were evacuated. 
There were no immediate reports of deaths, but fire offi­cials in Washington said there were at least some injuries. 
The National Cathedral said its central tower and three of its four corner spires were damaged, but the White House said advisers had told President Barack Obama there were no reports of major dam­age to the nation’s infrastruc­ture, including airports and nuclear facilities. 
The U.S. Geological Survey said the quake registered magnitude 5.8 and was cen­tered 40 miles northwest of Richmond, Va. 
Two nuclear reactors at the North Anna Power Station, in the same county as the epi­center, were automatically taken off line by safety sys­tems, said Roger Hannah, a spokesman for the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 
The earthquake came less than three weeks before the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, and in both Washington and New York it immediately triggered fears of something more sinister than a natural disaster. 
At the Pentagon, a low rum­bling built until the building itself was shaking, and people ran into the corridors of the complex. The shaking contin­ued there, to shouts of “Evacuate! Evacuate!” 
The Park Service closed all monuments and memorials on the National Mall, and ceiling tiles fell at Reagan National Airport outside Washington. All flights there were put on hold. 
In lower Manhattan, the 26­story federal courthouse, blocks from ground zero of the Sept. 11 attacks, began sway­ing, and hundreds of people streamed out of the building. 
The New York police com­missioner, Raymond Kelly, was in a meeting with top deputies planning security for the upcoming anniversary when the shaking started. Workers in the Empire State Building spilled into the streets, some having descended dozens of flights of stairs. 
“I thought we’d been hit by an airplane,” said one worker, Marty Wiesner. 
Another, Adrian Ollivierre, an accountant, was in his office on the 60th floor when the quake struck: “I thought I was having maybe a heart attack, and I saw everybody running. I think what it is, is the paranoia that happens from 9/11, and that’s why I’m still out here — because, I’m sorry, I’m not playing with my life.” 
New York District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance was starting a news conference about the dismissal of the sexual assault case against Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former head of the International Monetary Fund, when the shaking began. Reporters and aides began rushing out the door until it became clear it was subsiding. 
On Wall Street, the floor of the New York Stock Exchange did not shake, officials said, but the Dow Jones industrial average sank 60 points soon after the quake struck. The Dow began rising again a half-hour later and finished the day up 322 points. 

East Coast prepares for Hurricane Irene 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — Tropical Storm Irene is moving toward the Leeward Islands and the Caribbean Sea, with forecast­ers issuing warnings for Puerto Rico, the U.S. and British Virgin Islands and numerous other islands. 
The National Hurricane Center reported at 2 a.m. EDT Sunday that the storm was about 120 miles (195 kilometers) southeast of the Caribbean island of Antigua, with maximum sustained winds of 50 mph (85 kph). It was moving west at 22 mph (35 kph). 
The center said Irene could strengthen some in the com­ing 48 hours and become a hurricane by Monday. 
In addition to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, tropi­cal storm warnings have been issued for Vieques, Culebra, Saba, St. Eustatius, St. Maartin, Dominica, Barbuda, St. Kitts, Nevis, Antigua, Anguilla and Montserrat. 
A tropical storm watch has been issued for the south coast of the Dominican Republic, from the Haiti bor­der to Cabo Engano. 
Forecasters said Irene would pass through the Leeward Islands early Sunday and then move into the northeastern Caribbean Sea. It is expected Sunday afternoon to bring tropical storm conditions, including 4 to 7 inches of rain, to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. 
Hurricane conditions are possible over the Dominican Republic by late Monday. Tropical storm-force winds extended outward up to 130 miles (215 kilometers), main­ly to the north and east of the center of Irene, forecasters said. 
The hurricane center said a storm surge was expected to raise water levels 1 to 3 feet above normal tide levels along coastlines in the imme­diate warning area and the surge would be accompanied by large and dangerous waves. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, August 24, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Changes ahead 
This issue marks the second issue in The Observer’s 45th year. Yes, The Observer is older than many of your parents. You would think by now we would be a polished, well-oiled opera­tion. 
We aren’t. We’re far from it. Though we have come a long way since that fateful first edition Thursday, Nov. 3, 1966, we still have a long way to go. 

As we strive to Douglas Farmer improve bit-
by-bit, you’ll Editor-in-Chief see some changes this year. You might notice a few in today’s paper. You will probably notice many more in Monday’s edition when we complete a transition from one layout software to another. Come January, perhaps there will be even a few more tweaks for you. 
For each noticeable difference in print, big or small, there will be three or four online. In fact, as soon as Steve Jobs and Apple give us the go-ahead, all of you iPhone users can download The Observer’s mobile app, complete with restaurant reviews for local eateries. Ideally, Mr. Jobs will sign off on it Wednesday, possibly Thursday. Don’t worry Android users -I am one of you, and the Android version will be out within 7 to 10 days. 
Before long, you may even find coupons to area restaurants embed­ded in the app. Stay tuned. 
And for those few remaining dumb-phone users, including two of my three roommates, ndsmcobserver.com stands waiting for you. We’re beefing up our online-only content, our blog presence, our live chat frequency, our video usage and our photo galleries. 
If none of that sparks your interest, hopefully those in this office can find a way to do so soon. After all, it really does come down to you, our readers. 
Robert Sam Anson and Stephen M. Feldhaus founded The Observer in 1966-67 to fill the void left by “The Voice.” They did so because students wanted, if not needed, a constant source of campus information. Throughout the past 45 years as the campus’ only independent, student-run, daily newspaper, providing that information to the student body has remained our primary goal. We want to be the first and best source for all things Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. 
Or, as Anson and Feldhaus said in Vol. 1, Issue 1, “This is our purpose.” 
These changes I have vaguely men­tioned are simply our attempts at doing a better job of serving you. 
If you have more ideas for us, let us know. Really, email me, or come to our open house Sunday afternoon from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. 
It’ll motivate us further, both because we’ll know you’re still read­ing, and because we need all the help we can get. It can get lonely down here in the bowels of South Dining Hall. This is only our 14th year down here, after all. 
Douglas Farmer is a senior with a major in the Program of Liberal Studies and a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. He can be found in The Observer office in South Dining Hall at all times or reached at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Murder and medical ethics 
I spent last fall as a teaching assistant in Medical Ethics. I was responsible for lead­ing two discussion sections every Friday. My students taught me a great deal — though not what I expected. 
After our discus­sions, I worried that, in teaching my stu­dents certain moral debates — in pre­senting without eval­uation, for example, the very best pro-life and pro-choice arguments — I had corrupted my stu-Dan Sportiello dents, had injected enough uncertainty Bound into their principles Variables such that, at a critical moment, they would do precisely the wrong thing; whereas, if I had just left them to their naïveté, the wrong thing would have struck them as unthinkable. That the decisions we debated 

— 
abortion, euthanasia and so on — are often made in confusing and deeply trau­matic circumstances only compounded my worry. 

Imagine for a moment that the debates in Medical Ethics really have the importance that we tell our students they do. Imagine, for example, that abortion really is murder 

— 
and thus, that it is evil to seek it. And consider one of my students — young, pas­sionate, and impressionable: her parents, simple but principled, taught her that abor­tion is an abomination, the murder of a child, before sending her off to college to learn the ways of the world. She is a biolo­gy major and will one day go to medical school — and so she registers for Medical Ethics, where she hears any number of pro-choice arguments that her parents had never taught her. These arguments shake her confidence: she remembers the princi­ples that she learned as a child, but she no longer knows just what to believe — not, anyway, in her heart of hearts. 


And now imagine that, in medical school, she becomes pregnant herself. She is, pre­dictably, very alone and very afraid — and is, therefore, sorely tempted to abort her child. It is now that the arguments that she 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
learned in Medical Ethics are at their most dangerous, for they can serve only to weaken her resolve: if the best philoso­phers cannot agree that it is wrong, she thinks, who can blame her for choosing abortion? After all, she heard some pretty convincing arguments that it is her right! And so she murders her child — something she would not have done had I not taught her so well. 
Imagine, on the contrary, that abortion is a human right — that it is evil to withhold it. And consider another of my students — young, passionate, and impressionable: her parents, simple yet principled, taught her that abortion is a godsend, that it is the right of every woman, before sending her off to college to learn the ways of the world. She is a biology major and will one day go to medical school — and so she registers for Medical Ethics, where she hears any number of pro-life arguments that her par­ents had never taught her. These argu­ments shake her confidence: she remem­bers the principles that she learned as a child, but she no longer knows just what to believe — not, anyway, in her heart of hearts. 
And now imagine that, as a doctor, she is asked by her patient to authorize an abor­tion. She is, predictably, full of apprehen­sion — and is, therefore, sorely tempted to deny her patient. It is now that the argu­ments that she learned in Medical Ethics are at their most dangerous, for they can serve only to weaken her resolve: if the best philosophers cannot agree that it is permissible, she thinks, who can blame her for withholding abortion? After all, she heard some pretty convincing arguments that it is murder! And so she violates the human rights of her patient — something she would not have done had I not taught her so well. 
Perhaps neither of these situations is particularly plausible. But more plausible, I think, is a third: imagine again that abor­tion is murder and that my first student avoids pregnancy in medical school. She becomes an obstetrician and spends a career delivering healthy babies to happy parents. Only intermittently do those par­ents ask her, instead, to abort their chil­dren. When they ask this of her, she first remembers the principles that she learned as a child — but she then remembers the many arguments that I taught her. She remembers that she is a doctor, a woman of the world, and that whatever seems to be black and white is always, in the end, many shades of gray. Surely, she thinks, abortion cannot be as bad as they say: it is distasteful, certainly, but hardly evil. It is a thing to be done and forgotten. 
And so she kills. Not often, and not glad­ly. But she kills nonetheless. And the blood that spills is, at least partly, on my hands. 
This, then, is my fear. When I voiced it to a fellow graduate student, he reassured me that our students do not listen to us any­way. Which may well be true. But it is bet­ter not to take the chance if the stakes are as high as we take them to be — if, for example, abortion really is murder. 
Consider a parallel case: we teach our children, before we send them off to col­lege, that murder is wrong. We would never allow them to take, much less demand that they take, a course that would seriously question this — that would, so to speak, look at both sides of the murder debate. What would be the point? Even if said course did not manipulate them into the pro-death camp, presenting that camp as though it were a legitimate option — as though intelligent and responsible students sometimes concluded that murder is per­missible, or even a human right — could only serve to weaken their resolve: if the best philosophers cannot agree that mur­der is wrong, they might think in a moment of rage, who can blame them for murder­ing? After all, they heard some pretty con­vincing arguments that it is fine! 
An education in virtue requires the assumption that certain options are unthinkable — the assumption, in other words, that they aren’t options at all. To present them to our students as though they are is to fail as teachers. 
It was this, my failure, that my students taught me. I hope that this column will serve to thank them. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his fourth year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. Listen to his radio show on WVFI. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“If you don’t make mistakes, you’re not working on hard enough prob­lems. And that’s a big mistake.” 
Frank Wilczek 
U.S. physicist 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Friendship with oneself is all-important, because without it one cannot be friends with anyone else in the world.” 
Eleanor Roosevelt 
U.S. diplomat & reformer 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
Wednesday, August 24, 2011 ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
UWIRE 
Department of Education gets it right 
Our View: The Department of ation arm of the Department of Education has stepped up enforce-Justice. And the World Health ment of its sexual assault policies for Organization has reported that vic­universities. It’s about time. tims are significantly more likely to 
In April, the Department of suffer academically, to experience Education’s Office of Civil Rights sent depression and post-traumatic stress a letter to uni-disorder, to abuse alcohol and drugs versity officials Editorial Board and to contemplate suicide. across the coun-In light of the seriousness of this try, clarifying Oklahoma Daily trend, it’s contemptible that the the require-Department of Education has gone so ments of current gender non-dis-long without such a clarification and crimination laws in respect to uni-renewed enforcement. Universities versities’ sexual assault policies. This are doing the long-overdue right letter did not change the existing pol-thing, and it’s unfortunate that com-icy; it simply explained exactly how mentators have taken this as an they expected the policy to be opportunity to attack those universi­applied. Some universities scrambled ties and the department. to make changes to bring their aging These policies require universities sexual assault policies in line with to inform victims of their rights and these expectations. to educate faculty, staff and students 
The points in this letter, and the about prevention and reporting. They policy changes inspired by them, mandate that the system be in place, have since come under fire. The effi-and readily accessible, for pursuing cacy and fairness of the Department administrative proceedings against of Education’s policy is the subject accused attackers. These are incredi­for another debate. A debate that bly important features, and ones that must be had, yes, but not by cri-should not be taken for granted. If tiquing the department for finally there are problems with specific fea­enforcing its own requirements. tures of the policy, surely we can find 
Sexual assault is an epidemic. The better ways to discuss them than by headlines have been filled with inci-taking aim at the entire list of essen­dents of sexual assault at respected tial and beneficial requirements. universities, controversial because of We’re proud of U. Oklahoma’s the slowness and impotency of the recent changes to the statute of limi­administrative response under poli-tations on sexual assault. It’s a move cies too long unchanged. Nearly 20 that strengthens the university’s percent of women and 6 percent of overall sexual assault policy and men will be victims of sexual assault shows OU’s commitment to prevent-during their time at college, accord-ing sexual violence. It’s about time ing to a federally funded research the rest of the nation’s universities organization, the National Criminal caught up. Justice Reference Service. For women, that’s nearly one in four. This article originally ran in the 
On top of that, sexual assaults are Aug. 23 edition of the Oklahoma vastly under-reported nationwide, Daily, serving the University of according to the research and evalu-Oklahoma. 
UWIRE 
Subsidized student loans must stay 
The facts: On Aug. 2, the Senate would have to pay interest while gave the final approval to raise the still in school. national debt limit by $2.4 trillion. With the mounting unemployment The rise of the debt ceiling prevent-rate, it is difficult for students to ed a sudden jump in student loan get adequately paying jobs while in interest rates, but lawmakers con-school unless they qualify for pro­sidered other grams such as work-study. The measures, Editorial Board complication is that students will including not qualify for work-study or other removing sub-Technician forms of financial aid if they begin sidized stu-accruing income above a certain dent loans. rate. 
Our opinion: The raising of the This means that students will have debt ceiling and its potential conse-to balance loans with interests, jobs quences will be detrimental to stu-with menial pay, the constant threat dents with financial aid or those of losing financial aid, rising tuition already accruing massive student and textbook costs, full-time stu­loans. dent status and an ever-mounting 
The increase of the debt ceiling debt upon graduation. was a controversial compromise The raised debt ceiling also means that prevented a federal default but the government will be less likely to opened the door to further econom-support banks providing student ic issues. One segment affected by loans, which means that banks will the raise is federal and bank loans be far more selective about their 
— particularly student loans. The loans. Currently, when students are specific effects to University student unable to pay back student loans on loans as a result of the debt ceiling time, banks receive their money are uncertain but deeply troubling, from the government and students and lawmakers should make sure to must then reimburse the govern-maintain subsidized student loans ment. If the government fails to throughout the debt crisis. back banks, they will be far more 
Tuition rose by 6.5 percent this reluctant to hand out loans. academic year, and several reduc-All of these consequences suggest tions have already been made to that students’ futures will be nega­available student financial aid. tively impacted if lawmakers do Paying for college has become an away with subsidized loans. With increasingly difficult task even for the current debt crisis it is those deemed able to pay without inevitable that certain cuts and financial aid or student loans. revisions will have to be made to a 
Student loans traditionally took variety of programs. However, the the form of subsidized loans, mean-availability of subsidized student ing that students could take loans loans is a component of financial without interest during the time aid that should not be altered. that they were in school. Lawmakers are now considering This article originally ran in the Aug. revoking subsidized student loans, 23 edition of the Technician, serving which would mean that students North Carolina State University. 

The Observer 
Scene
page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, August 24, 2011 

By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Scene Editor 
B1 Block Party 
The annual B1 Block Party opened its doors to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross stu­dents for the first time two years ago and has proven to be the perfect way to open a new school year. Held in the B1 parking lot, the Legends-sponsored concert begins at 5:30 p.m. this Saturday. Last year, Guster wowed the crowd. In the latest installment, popular disc jockey and mash-up artist Girl Talk will take the stage to get the students-only crowd jumping. With free food, a host of activities and live music all night long, the B1 Block Party is sure to get the year started in style. 
Football Season 
It's been far too long since the 2010 foot­ball season. In an exciting year of football, Brian Kelly changed the face of the Fighting Irish. Notre Dame took down rival USC on their home turf and the student body stormed the field after defeating No. 15 Utah in the last home game of the season. 
On Saturday, Sept. 3, the No. 16 Irish return to the stadium against South Florida to kick off an exciting year of football. The season’s schedule features both 
old rivalries and fresh opponents and will be stadium as the No. 4 Irish look for a comeback this year. 
DPAC’s Midnight Movies 
In an impressive line­
up of films at the 
this year, perhaps the most exciting is the Midnight Movies series. This film series, as the title would suggest, offers cult classics and new favorites at midnight in the Browning Cinema. Highlights will include the famous-comedians-


DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 



before-they-were-famous classic "Wet Hot American Summer," David Guest mockumentary "This Is Spinal Tap," cult comedy favorite "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" and the movie that college students 
tend to love, "Superbad." These movies are scattered throughout the semester and tickets are only $3 for students. 
Blue Man Group 
South Bend is about to get one of the hottest tickets in town next spring when Blue Man Group hits the Morris Performing Arts Center. The popular live music show, featuring those bald, blue men and their makeshift instruments will be in downtown 


South Bend for a weekend in April. Tickets go on at Notre Dame Stadium in over 20 years when the sale for the five performances Monday Aug. 29, Irish take on USC. so be sure to get your tickets — they will likely 
go fast. Women’s Soccer 
Last season was a good time to be a Notre Dame Dorm Events women's soccer fan. The Irish took down the unde-A year at Notre Dame isn't complete without feated Stanford team in the College Cup final to win participating in some of campus’ beloved dorm the championship. This year, the No. 1 Irish return to events. While some may be cheesy and others defend their title and have already defeated Wisconsin just plain absurd, in their home opener. Head out to Alumni Stadium they are always fun this season to watch them and a great way to plow through the spend a day bond-competition. ing with your fel­
low students. Hockey 
Notre Dame hockey SYRs has a new home this 
Another Notre year at the Compton 
Dame tradition, be sure Family Ice Arena. 
to grab that special Hockey games are free 
someone and drag them for students and known 
to your dorm dance — for an atmosphere of 
be it the classy Dome chanting, cheering and Dance or your favorite lively crowds. The Irish themed event. Or you made it to the Final Four can take the name last year but were 
seriously and "set-up knocked out by Minnesota 
your roommate" to get Duluth. Check out the new a good laugh or see if sparks fly. 
Legends Trivia 
Legends Trivia is beloved by many, but overlooked by many more. Every Thursday night, head to Legends at 9 p.m. for some trivia that will surely test even your Notre Dame education. Grab a group of friends and compete for prizes, from cash to T-shirts. For those of legal age, Legends also has drink specials to accompany the rowdy trivia crowd. But don't be late — trivia always fills up fast. 
Senior Marshmallow Fight 
This year, the highlight of the Irish football season will hopefully be an impressive record and a strong presence, and an even stronger possession of the ball on the field. But just in case that doesn't excite you enough, don't forget that the last home game, which will be against Boston College, features the infamous senior marshmallow fight. Watch the seniors vent their job-hunting frustration by pelting marshmallows at one another during halftime. And this year, there is an extra reason to look forward to this historic tradi­tion — peruse your local grocery store and you'll see they now sell bags of jumbo marshmallows that are at least twice the size of reg­
ular ones. Play a 
game with your 
friends and see 
who can catch the 
most stray marsh­
mallows in his or 
her mouth. 
Urban Outfitters 
Eddy Street has steadily grown and improved since stores started moving in a few years ago. Now the street is set to get a little trendier when Urban Outfitters moves in. There seems to be no downside to being in close proximity to the 
clothing giant, except maybe for your wallet. 

Brothers Bar and Grill 
Brothers is a staple at many college campuses, like the University of Wisconsin and Indiana University. Now the popular bar is settling in at Eddy Street. Set to open in October, Brothers is sure to join O'Rourke's as a new fixture for Notre Dame students looking for a fun night out. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
Observer Graphic I LISA HOEYNCK 
The Observer 
Scene
Wednesday, August 24, 2011 ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 

Well dearest fashionistas, it’s that time of the year again. And as we tearfully say goodbye to summer with its intoxicating adventures and turn our minds to the goals and ambitions we have set for our upcoming semester, one important question still remains: What are we going to wear? 
Like any other young women of ambition and sophistication, we have each evolved over the summer. We have learned new languages, trav­eled to far off non-English speaking countries where we found fashion accessories the key to bartering for a coveted bottle of water (long story involving large hand gestures, Oscar-worthy acting and loud bohemian prints ... inquire at your own peril). We’ve created bonfires on the beach, gotten fabulous tans and plumbed our emotional depths to discover the mature woman inside our girlish figures. 
Some of us are saying farewell to our old selves and Bonjour to the new psyche we aim to create in the college environment. Others are keeping their designer selves, while those of us in our last year are already dreaming of the haute cou­ture wardrobe we know to be part of our destiny after 

graduation In terms of color, the brighter (Darling Dior-the better. Italy has always been J’arrive!!). We a fan of bright red (even on need back-to-men), while trendy Londoners school fashion proclaim their groove in bright choices that blues. The Spanish love classic broadcast our sunset colors: orange, golden summer accom-yellows and even green. Pair plishments on your bright pants with a classic visual loud-oxford shirt to mellow the effect, speakers while or a wild print to call the spirits still leading us of bohemia to you. Use the to conquer our pants’ color as a springboard for own personal accessory matching: pair bright Rubicon in style. red pants with gold sandals and 
Back in the a gold bag, green pants with 1940s, black sandals and your fabulous Katharine school satchel. 

Hepburn made her own rules in Hollywood by challenging the estab­lishment in pants instead of the tra­ditional pencil skirt. Recently, our European counterparts have taken this female power-dressing to a new extreme by putting pants into a Technicolor setting of which even Scarlett O’Hara would be proud. It is this fashion choice that promises to unite summer and school: fellow 
Think of your bright pants as a 
visual remembrance of summer that has evolved into your academic armor. As you step into that class­room, you’ll have your own source of inspirational light. 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer 
Contact Felicia Caponigri at fcaponig@nd.edu 
Photo Courtesy of zara.com Bright pants, Zara, $59.99 

fashion followers, I give you the bright pant! 
Fitted, straight leg pants are a nec­essary part of a finished wardrobe. There is nothing more visually unap­pealing than observing a pair of pants that does not fit its owner properly. Pants should never be too baggy or too tight, too long or too short. Just as the fit through the hip area is crucially important, so is the length of the pant, which can either elongate your leg or abbreviate it. The classic trouser leg should end at the top of your ankle bone, whether you wear them with flats or heels. 
For the petite among us, this elon­gates our gams, while the already statuesque remain in their goddess-like atmosphere. Do not be afraid to 
take your 
pants to a tal­
ented tailor 
for a good 
hemming (I, 
myself, am a 
huge fan of 
the lovely 
seamstress at 
our very own 
St. Michael’s 
Laundry). 
Frayed edges 
and street 
blackened 
pant ends will 
only frighten 
those dresses 
and blouses 
neighboring 
your pants in 
that sacred 
closet space. 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, August 24, 2011 
NFL 
Manning injury complicates upcoming season 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Peyton Manning’s goals remain the same. It’s the Colts’ short-term focus that has changed. 
Instead of using the presea­son to fine-tune their high-scoring offense, they are still waiting for Manning to get healthy enough to make a dif­ference — and perhaps make Indianapolis’ Super Bowl hopes come true. 
“You understand why it’s being hyped up, but it’s so far away it doesn’t even it feel like it’s this year yet,” said kicker Adam Vinatieri, who already owns four Super Bowl rings. 
The muted reaction inside Indy’s locker room is under­standable given the team’s recent run of success. It has won seven of the last eight AFC South titles, tied the NFL record with nine straight play­off appearances, but uses Super Bowl victories as the measuring stick. 
This year, with Indianapolis hosting its first Super Bowl, the city’s expectations have changed. Fans are no longer discussing the 4½-month lock­out that put the big game in jeopardy and would rather debate whether the Colts can become the first team to play the Super Bowl in its home sta­dium. 
“They would love it,” defen­sive captain Gary Brackett said. 
Getting there was never going to be easy, and Manning’s slow recovery from offseason neck surgery has been a bigger obstacle than anyone anticipated. 
For only the second time in his 14-year career, Manning did not take a snap in training camp and he’s expected to miss all four preseason games. The last time that happened, Indy started 3-4 and had to win its last nine just to make the play­offs. 
If the neck injury does end Manning’s streak of 227 con­secutive games, including play­offs, most figure the Colts have no chance at reaching the Super Bowl. But the Colts have a penchant for redefining con­ventional wisdom. 
Indy finished last season with 18 players on injured reserve, including star tight end Dallas Clark, and still won the AFC South. It won more regular-season games (115) between 2000 and 2009 than any team in any decade in league history. After reeling off 23 straight wins between 2008 and 2009, the Colts pulled their starters in the third quarter of Week 15, throwing away a shot at a perfect season. 
Players think they can do it again. 
“It’s not like we’re going to not play games and close up shop,” Clark said. “Obviously, we had a lot of injuries last year, and, obviously, Peyton is a little bigger name. But who­ever steps in has to do the job.” 
The questions are not just about Manning or his backup, as team owner Jim Irsay made clear on a recent Twitter post. 
Receiver Austin Collie returned to practice Monday after missing an entire week with a knee injury. He’s coming back from two concussions. Receiver Anthony Gonzalez, who missed most of the past two seasons with knee injuries, has been bothered by a ham­string injury. 
The Colts are hoping four former first-round draft picks 
— defensive linemen Jamaal Anderson, Tyler Brayton and Tommie Harris, and linebacker Ernie Sims — can help make the defense more stout against the run. 
Indy also is reconstructing the offensive line that protects Manning. The Colts used their first two draft picks on offen­sive tackles Anthony Castonzo and Ben Ijalana in hopes of reviving a running game that hasn’t topped 4.0 yards per carry since Indy’s only Super Bowl-winning season of 2006. 
“As tough as it is out here (at training camp), when the lights come that’s really when you want to see guys step for­ward,” Pro Bowl center Jeff Saturday said. “That’s what we’ll see over the next few weeks.” 
It’s also when things will really get tough. 
Houston believes its ready to destroy the Colts’ division dom­inance; Jacksonville nearly did last year; and Tennessee has signed Matt Hasselbeck to reju­venate the only team other than Indy to win the South title. Outside the division, the Colts still have to contend with the two-time AFC runner-up Jets and perennial rivals Baltimore, New England, Pittsburgh and San Diego. 
Of course, they’ve always had Manning to bail them out in the past. This year, who knows? 
“He’s working extremely hard to get back as quickly as he possibly can,” coach Jim Caldwell said. 

With or without the only four-time MVP in league histo­ry, Colts fans still have one wish: seeing their team playing at Lucas Oil Stadium in February. 
“We’ve not talked about that at all,” Vinatieri said. “You know there’s going to be hype and how excited the city is about it. You see the mayor on TV every other day talking about it and you get that. But from the football side of it, we haven’t even looked gotten past the preseason yet. We can’t allow yourself to think about that right now.” 
MLB 
Simon leads Baltimore to 8-1 victory over Minnesota 
me. Either way, I can be a starter, team in May. He joined rotation ball, a lot of late life.” Reimold connected for his eighth Associated Press but sometimes something hap-on July 9, but has been inconsis-He didn’t have any trouble homer of the season. pens and we have to handle it like tent in his nine starts. against the punchless Twins. “Didn’t really affect it too much, 
MINNEAPOLIS — After years of that. But I think I can be a starter. “This is a 29-, 30-year-old Simon retired 16 of the final 17 maybe three or four pitches after being shuffled between the rota-I’m a power pitcher. I have four young man whose gotten some batters he faced and didn’t give that,” Duensing said of being hit tion and the bullpen, Alfredo pitches.” opportunities because of the arm up a hit after Luke Hughes’ dou-on the hand. “It was just kind of Simon wants to prove he deserves Minnesota starter Brian and his stuff, and ability on occa-ble in the third inning. numb; first three fingers couldn’t to be a starting pitcher. Duensing (8-13) was out after just sions to do things like he did After going 63 games without really feel them. But that really 
More perfomances like Tuesday four batters in the third inning as tonight,” Orioles manager Buck holding an opponent to one run or wasn’t the issue today. I was up in night will help Simon stake a his struggles continued. He gave Showalter said. “The key is can less, Baltimore has held the zone again and wasn’t execut­claim to a permanent spot in the up seven runs and nine hits while you do it again and can you do it Minnesota to two runs in the ing again.” Baltimore Orioles’ rotation. losing his fifth straight game. again and can you do it again. We series with Simon’s domination Reynolds hit a two-run triple 
Simon allowed one run and Danny Valencia had a solo all live in a what-have-you-done-following Zach Britton’s 4-1 win the following inning, and three hits in a career-high eight home run for the Twins, who have for-me world, but it’s a good in the series opener on Monday. Duensing was done after Robert innings, and Vladimir Guerrero lost five of six games on the cur-start.” Duensing was never the same Andino’s singled scored Reynolds. and Mark Reynolds both had rent homestand. Simon allowed three runs or after trying to field a ball hit by Duensing equaled his shortest three hits as the Orioles beat the “Our offense was just nonexist-less in his first five starts, compil-Guerrero with his bare hand. start of the season and is winless Minnesota Twins 8-1. ent,” Minnesota manager Ron ing a 3.26 ERA. However, he had Duensing knocked the ball down, in August. He’s allowed 25 earned 
Nolan Reimold added a three-Gardenhire said. “Their kid threw allowed 13 runs in 15 2-3 innings but tried to throw to first to runs in 26 innings in August and run homer for Baltimore. the ball well. I think you saw his in his last three turns. record the out and threw wildly has given up at least eight hits in 
Simon (4-6) won for the first splitters and curveball and a “You see that tonight and you straight into ground allowing each of his five starts. time in four starts. He struck out decent fastball from him. He had know the potential is there, but Guerrero to go to second. Baltimore has won the first two a career-high eight. us guessing pretty much all night everyone’s trying to grasp that The next pitch was a wild pitch games of the four-game series, a 
“I can be a starter, no matter long.” consistency,” Showalter said. “It with Guerrero advancing to third. significant accomplishment in what,” Simon said. “I have the Simon saved 17 games for will all be dictated by the com-Wieters then doubled and itself. The Orioles are winless in stuff to be a starter. It’s up to them Baltimore last season and was in mand of the fastball, once you Reynolds singled on hard-hit their last 15 series, losing 14 of what they are going to do with the bullpen when he joined the establish that. He had a live fast-balls. Following a pop-up, them. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
3BR House available now. Close to ND/SM campus. Well-kept, cute, 
WANTED FOR SALE FOR RENT clean, laundry and yard. No NOTICES PERSONAL 
pets/smoking. Available now. Call 
269-429-6346 SALES REP to sell ads to local 3BR 2BA or entire house for rent for ——————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't businesses. 4 NDvSF tickets. ND football. AAA Clean 2 BR apartment for rent. Everyone on campus is getting go it alone. Notre Dame has many 
2 miles from campus. $350 per bed-Close to ND and Saint Mary's. $530 cheap eats, movie tickets, 2 for 1's resources in place to assist you. If GREAT earning potential! Sec4, room or $1000 for entire house. month + $400 deposit. Rent and FREE stuff. you or someone you love needs includes heat, water and trash. confidential support or assistance, SEND resume to Row50. Fri 5:00 pm through Sun 2:00 pm. Tenant responsible for electric and Get yours too. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 gas water heater. Coin washer/dryer or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more $70/ea. Responsible parties call 574-286-on-site. Call 574-274-2648. Credit TEXT IRISH1 information, visi carrier539@gmail.com 432.571.7858 0321 check required. to 99000 t ND's website at: http://pregnancy­support@nd.edu ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Wednesday, August 24, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
NASCAR 
Speeding ticket results in lost license for Busch 

Associated Press 
STATESVILLE, N.C. — NASCAR points leader Kyle Busch lost his driver’s license for 45 days on Tuesday for driving 128 mph on a road close to a day-care center and church in a nearly $400,000 car. His lawyer said his client was not treated “like any other citizen.” 
Busch, who doesn’t need a license to compete in NASCAR, also was fined $1,000, sen­tenced to 30 hours of commu­nity service and put on one year of unsupervised probation. He pleaded guilty to speeding and no contest to reckless and 
careless  driving  in  North  
Carolina  District  Court  in  
Iredell County.  

Busch addressed the court before his sentencing by District Court Judge H. Thomas Church, apologizing again for driving 128 mph in a 45 mph zone in a bright yellow 2012 Lexus on May 24. 
“I think you’ll be different in the future,” Church said. 
“I sure will, your honor,” Busch replied. 
Busch and his wife, Samantha, were in the car when he was pulled over on a two-lane road in an area near a subdivision, a day-care cen­ter and a church. The hand-built LFA sports car was on loan to Busch from Lexus for a 24-hour test drive. 
Busch attorney Cliff Homesley argued that his client wasn’t being treated the same as other people in similar circum­stances, citing a July case of a 21-year-old convicted felon who was caught doing 128 mph and received a $300 fine and no loss of license. 
“In 25 years of practicing law I’ve never seen someone not being offered better than this,” Homesley argued before the court. “All I am asking is to treat Kyle Busch like any other citizen that appears before the court.” 
Homesley, calling Busch one of the best drivers in the world, said: “He had full control of that vehicle at all times. 
“That automobile in his hands was like a scalpel in the hands of a surgeon. Not a knife in the hands of a 5-year-old.” 
Busch is coming off his Sprint Cup series-best fourth victory at Michigan on Sunday, and he holds a 10-point lead over five-time defending NASCAR cham­pion Jimmie Johnson in the standings. His next scheduled race is Wednesday’s Trucks Series event at Bristol, where he’s won the last five races spanning NASCAR’s top three national series. 


Wednesday, August 24, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 17 
NFL 
Cutler shows Bears leadership in preseason 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Clearly, Jay Cutler is trying to lead the Chicago Bears. 
He acted as the de facto coach, organizing offseason workouts for the offense while the lockout lin­gered on, and he was the first to show up for training camp, too. 
How far he can take the Bears, though, is the main question, and the answer largely hinges not on the quarterback but on the rest of the cast. 
There’s that revamped offensive line with six-time Pro Bowl center Olin Kreutz gone. There’s Roy Williams, hoping he can revive his career and boost the receiving corps. There’s a new look at tight end, with Greg Olsen gone and blocker Matt Spaeth in. The mix at running back now includes Marion Barber, and Adam Podlesh has replaced Brad Maynard at punter. 
There are even a few uncertain­ties on defense, where Julius Peppers, Brian Urlacher and Lance Briggs are ready to wreak havoc again. For all that, though, the Bears have most of their core intact after winning the NFC North at 11-5 and coming within a victo­ry of the Super Bowl last season. 
After that unexpected and diffi­cult run to the conference champi­onship game, they’re looking for more, and it starts with the quar­terback. 
“We are expecting a lot from him, but just not Jay,” coach Lovie Smith said. “That’s the thing I’m excited about. We have a lot of weapons to go to. Our offense has gone through a facelift and I like the way we look right now.” 
The last time the Bears played a meaningful game, Cutler spent most of the second half on the sideline with a sprained ligament in his left knee and watched as the Bears lost to Green Bay in the con­ference championship game. As if that weren’t painful enough, he got called out on Twitter by sever­al current and former players who questioned his toughness. 
It’s a new day now, a new sea­son. 
Cutler’s knee is fine. There are more pressing concerns at the moment, and at the top of the list is this: Will he stay on his feet? 
The beating he took last season was well documented. Who can forget that concussion-inducing nine-sack first half against the New York Giants at the Meadowlands in early October in which he at one point started wandering toward the wrong side­line? 
Cutler ranked around the mid­dle of the pack in yards passing (3,274) and completion percent­age (60.4), but the number that stands out is 52. That’s how many times he got sacked because of poor protection and unbalanced play-calling, particularly in the early going. 
Injuries and poor play forced the Bears to go with four different lineups the first seven weeks, and they stumbled into their bye at 4­
3. Then, they turned things around. They settled on a rotation in the trenches and committed more to the run, with Cutler get­ting sacked 25 times the rest of the way and Matt Forte winding up with 1,069 yards rushing. 

Now, Kreutz is gone after a messy contract negotiation, creat­ing a leadership void even if he was no longer at his physical peak. The Bears are going with Roberto Garza at center after moving him from right guard rather than starting newcomer Chris Spencer. Chicago also draft­ed Gabe Carimi in the first round, but a unit that ranked dead last in the league last season remains a huge question mark even if the players and coaches insist they’re in a much better spot this year. 
“I’m more encouraged than I was at this point last year when we were playing musical lines, you know,” line coach Mike Tice said. 
There are other unknowns, too. A big one is whether Williams can rediscover the form that made him a Pro Bowl receiver under offensive coordinator Mike Martz in Detroit. He’s seeking some redemption after 2 1/2 disappoint­
ing seasons in Dallas. 
“He is going to be dynamic for us,” Cutler said. “He is going to be good. He is very steady, very con­sistent in his routes. You know where he’s going to be. He knows the offense.” 
With Williams going deep and Spaeth at tight end, the offense could have more of a Martz feel to it. That doesn’t necessarily mean “The Greatest Show On Sod” will be playing at Soldier Field, but the Bears might try to open up their offense more — if the blocking holds up. 


Wednesday, August 24, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 19 
Clark 
continued from page 24 
showing the fans that even though this game only quali­fies as an exhibition game, both teams showed up with winning on the agenda. 
No. 6 Creighton netted the game’s first goal in the 33rd minute off of a penalty kick from a sliding challenge by Irish senior goalkeeper Will Walsh on the edge of the goal box. Eleven minutes later, Irish sophomore midfielder Harrison Shipp drew a penalty kick of his own when he was taken down at the top of the Blue Jays’ box. Senior mid­fielder Brendan King rolled in the free kick for the Irish to even the score at 1-1. 
The teams remained knotted at one deep into the second half, but the No. 9 Irish strug­gled to maintain possession and generate scoring opportu­nities. 
“I was happy with the way we played for most of the first half, but the second half I felt that they stepped up the pres­sure and we struggled a little bit just to connect passes,” Clark said. 
The Irish also struggled in the shooting aspect of the game. They trailed Creighton in shots taken 6-2 at the half, and 11-5 for the game. 
“It’s still preseason,” senior defender Aaron Maund said. 

“We’re still trying to figure some things out, things will open up. [Creighton] is a great defensive team, they had good pressure. We’re going to fig­ure it out.” 
Despite their inability to put the ball on frame, the Irish were able to remain even with the Blue Jays until the 75th minute when Creighton scored their second goal of the night. In the 84th minute, senior midfielder Adam Mena, des­perate for an equalizer, responded and slipped a ball through traffic to Maund into the Creighton goal box. Maund turned and blasted the game’s final goal. 
Notre Dame concluded the exhibition portion of its sched­ule with a record of 0-1-2 and gained learning opportunities for the regular season. 
“It’s good to test yourself there,” Clark said. “I think we’ve come in very fit, but at the same time, you need games. You can do all the run­ning on the track but until you play actual games, it’s very difficult to get actual game fit­ness.” 
The proceeds from Monday’s game were donated to Grassroots Soccer, an organi­zation started by Clark’s son, Thomas, as a project in med­ical school. 
“[Thomas] wanted to do use soccer to educate young Africans about HIV,” Clark said. 
The promotion managed to bring enough fans into the stands to catch the eye of Clark, who hopes that all the Irish home games will be as well-attended as the first. 
“I hope the fans enjoyed it, they got to see four goals, so that’s always nice,” he said. 
Next, the Irish welcome No. 12 Indiana for their first game of the season. Kickoff against the Hoosiers is scheduled for 
7:30 p.m. Saturday in Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


page 20 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, August 24, 2011 
tection. That isn’t going to make ter of a tie game in Ann Arbor them up over the course of a sea-the playbook like the back of his the difference on the depth chart. Sept. 10. Fourth-and-4 at midfield son, and it’s the difference hand. What’s more, the genuine 
Crist 

This wasn’t even about who with two minutes left, down one between the Holiday Bowl and the horse race between Rees and Crist continued from page 24 could most effectively make the possession to USC. First-and-goal Sugar Bowl. has pushed the senior to get even 
basic, simple passes that make up to win at Stanford, with a BCS This isn’t to say that Rees could-better mentally and physically. between eight wins this fall and 10 the heart of Kelly’s offense. Both bowl berth on the line. n’t pull off the plays in those situa-There’s a reason why after Kelly — or even more. quarterbacks are eminently capa-These are the situations in tions. Rees is a very capable quar-told Crist of his decision, the 
This competition was not about ble of completing a swing pass to which Crist will be called on to terback, and if Crist goes down, newly-named starter said to Rees, which quarterback could throw for wide receiver Theo Riddick, a make a play. Maybe it’s a pinpoint Notre Dame will have the luxury of “I need you to keep pushing me.” 350 yards and four touchdowns a standard out route to tight end 12-yard out route across the field being completely confident in its Rees will indeed keep pushing game. Frankly, with this receiving Tyler Eifert or a quick slant to to Eifert. Perhaps it’s a rollout “go” backup quarterback. That is an Crist. But when the rubber meets corps, either gunslinger could wide receiver Michael Floyd. route to Floyd. Whatever it is, in advantage few teams around the the road, Crist has just a little have put up eye-popping stats, but These are not the plays that sepa-those situations, Crist is the guy. country will have. more raw talent in him. In nearly that’s not the point. rated Crist and Rees. He’s got more arm strength, more Crist, however, has done nothing hopeless situations, he creates just 
Nor was this battle about which This decision is really important rapport with his receivers and but improve since last season. It’s a little more room for hope. And in quarterback understood the only a few times a game — but more innate talent to make a play been evident every time he steps what was a neck-and-neck race offense better, or who had better those are the times that mean the out of nothing. These times will on the practice field. Whereas last for eight months, that makes all chemistry with his offensive line. difference between a decent sea-rarely show up, but when they do, year Crist was uncomfortable in the difference. Crist and Rees both grasp the com-son and a great one. What are they will be the line between a tri-Kelly’s offensive system and strug­plex Kelly schemes, and both are those times? umphant win in Michigan Stadium gled to flush out the old Charlie Contact Allan Joseph at on the same page with their pro-Third-and-10 in the fourth quar-and a heartbreaking loss. Add Weis system, this year he knows ajoseph2@nd.edu 
ing nod is disappointed, and [I] wouldn’t have wanted a
Kelly 
response any other way. continued from page 24 Tommy also knows what he’s 
capable of doing too. Tommy’s last spring following a patellar a much better quarterback ligament injury to the knee in than he was last year.” October against Tulsa. In his Kelly reaffirmed that while sophomore season, Crist tore Crist is the intended starter for his ACL as well. each game of the season, cer­
“He has to play the game the tain packages will incorporate way it comes to him,” Kelly Rees, sophomore Andrew said. “One of the things he did Hendrix and freshman Everett in camp was show great Golson. escapability. After two knee Although relieved by a sense surgeries, he moved well, he of security at his position, Crist was able to extend plays. We said he will look to Rees to couldn’t have somebody that continue pushing him through­couldn’t extend plays in our out the season. offensive system, and he was “We talked pretty soon after able to do that.” [Kelly’s decision]. We all met 
Kelly informed Crist and at pretty similar times. I told Rees of the decision during him, ‘I need you to keep push-one-on-one meetings with ing me. I think honestly you each quarterback Monday. have made me a better quar-While physical attributes terback.’” played a significant role in the Crist threw for 2,033 yards decision, Kelly said subjective and 15 touchdowns last season factors ultimately led him to before rupturing his patella choose Crist. tendon. The senior said he 
“I would say quite frankly doesn’t foresee any challenges and quite honestly, [Crist] is leading the Irish offense, citing the kind of guy I want to increased familiarity with coach,” Kelly said. “He’s Kelly and his system. tougher mentally. He handles “It really just comes with himself in that leadership experience,” Crist said. “Now, position in the way I want our coming into year two, I under-quarterbacks to handle it. We stand how he likes to coach. have great confidence in his He understands what gets me ability to lead our football going, what pushes me, what team to a championship.” doesn’t. That relationship is 
In addition to recovering definitely growing, we’ve seen from multiple severe knee it grow together. Obviously, injuries, Kelly credits Crist for there is a ton more room for overcoming a spring season growth and [it] will continue to that neither coach nor quar-grow and evolve.” terback were particularly pleased with. Crist finished Contact Chris Masoud at five of 10 through the air for cmasoud@nd.edu 34 passing yards in the annual Blue-Gold scrimmage April 16. 
Nevertheless, the senior maintained a strong work ethic over the summer, allow­ing him to secure the starting job. 
“I’ve always tried to keep a positive mindset, and I know I’m confident of my abilities, but at the same time I wasn’t the one making the decision. Coach Kelly is,” Crist said. “So until I heard it from his lips, there is always some level of uncertainty. I just tried to keep a positive mindset throughout the duration of camp, and throughout the competition.” 
Neither quarterback emerged as a favorite heading into training camp, but Rees’ 4-0 campaign as a starter, including a 33-17 victory over Miami in the Sun Bowl, made him the unquestioned incum­bent. Kelly said Rees’ improve­ment since the end of the 2010 season made the decision par­ticularly difficult, but one the head coach looked forward to making. 
“Tommy Rees will be pre­pared to step in if he’s called on,” Kelly said. “Obviously, the guy that doesn’t get the start­

Wednesday, August 24, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 21 

Badgers 
continued from page 24 
did a great job at trying to keep it, switching the field and changing it up. I think we have a lot of work to do, but at the same time we are really pro­gressing and getting better at it.” 
Just over 15 minutes into the second half, Irish senior mid­fielder Molly Campbell crossed the ball to an isolated Henderson, who headed the ball into the net. The goal sent the crowd of over 1,700 into a frenzy as the Irish were able to capitalize on a rare mistake by Wisconsin’s defense. 
Waldrum was not thoroughly pleased with his team’s overall shot selection. 
“I think the one thing we’ve got to continue to work on is we probably missed a few scoring opportunities that we could have won a little easier than we did,” Waldrum said. “We’ve got to get better at fin­ishing those chances because you’re only going to get a few against good teams. 
Not to take anything away from Wisconsin, but we had enough good chances to win by more than 2-0 today.” 
The Irish have never lost when Henderson records a goal or an assist. Quick to shy away from the spotlight, Henderson said despite being double and triple-teamed, she is equally as talented as her teammates on the field. 
“I’m honestly just as good as anyone else out there, so I feel like it’s just unfortunate that I have multiple defenders out there,” she said. 
Waldrum said Henderson understands that being double and triple-teamed comes with being a high-caliber athlete. 
“Mel’s got to get used to that because everybody knows her in the country. She is that player of the year in all that preseason balloting, but I think she’s been watched closely over the last couple years here,” Waldrum said. “I don’t think it’s anything new to her, but I do think you need somebody stepping in and scoring goals.” 
The Irish return to action against North Carolina Friday at 7 p.m. in the first game of the Carolina Classic in Chapel Hill, N.C. 
Contact Megan Golden mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 

Kubinski 
continued from page 24 
“I think that the problem with a lot of the teaching strategies these days is that they are designed to make money,” Kubinski said. “You can’t use cookie-cutter solutions for unique issues. You take what a guy has in terms of physical attributes and go from there.” 
Kubinski continued to work at golf clubs until 2003 when he joined the staff at Duke as an assistant coach. He worked with both the men and women’s teams and helped lead the women to a national champi­onship in 2002. 
“I got to work with a lot of very talented golfers at Duke, and frankly I think that helped me really shoot up the rankings of golf coaches,” Kubinski said. “People notice top individual finishes and congratulate the coach. Ninety-nine percent of it is the golfer you’re working with.” 
When the head coaching posi­tion at Notre Dame opened in 2005, he jumped at the oppor­tunity and never looked back, catapulting the Irish to a No. 12 national ranking in his first season. 
From the start, Kubinski endeavored to build an elite program. Under his lead, Notre Dame has opened a new indoor facility that allows the program to flourish in the cold winter months. It also attracts recruits. 
“When I was at Duke, we basically had our pick of the top amateur golfers in the country,” Kubinski said. “We’re getting to that point here. We’re getting some of the best talent in the country.” 
For golfers who have had pri­vate coaches since the time they could walk, Kubinski sees his role as just enhancing what is entrusted to him and working with players on the mental side of the game. 
“There’s golf, and then there’s tournament golf,” Kubinski said. “It’s one thing to have a great swing and another to bring it out in crunch time.” 
The Irish will face their fair share of high-pressure situa­tions this season as they move toward the NCAA spring cham­pionship in Los Angeles. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 

Wednesday, August 24, 2011 The Observer  TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 23 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 



JEFF KNUREK
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports
Wednesday, August 24, 2011 ndsmcobserver.com | page 24 
FOOTBALL 
Crist Chosen 

Crist’s natural talent start opener over Rees 
Kelly picks senior to difference in QB race 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Some Irish fans might be think-
Assistant Managing Editor 
ing this decision was a foregone conclusion. It’s easy to think Dayne Crist was going to be theIrish coach Brian Kelly starter given his experience, phys-removed any uncertainty ical strengthregarding the quarterback and skill set.
position by naming senior They’reDayne Crist as the starter wrong.
against South Florida in a Otherspress conference Tuesday might beafternoon. 
responding toCrist battled sophomore thisTommy Rees throughout train-announce­ing camp to earn the nod from ment with aKelly as the starter. 
big yawn, Allan Joseph
“We named a starting quar­terback, and that will be 
arguing Sports Editor that theDayne Crist, who will start for quarter-us against the University of back doesn’t matter in a BrianSouth Florida,” Kelly said. 
Kelly system and that the defense“Both of those young men, holds the key to a successful sea-Dayne and Tommy Rees, had a son.
great battle for that starting They’re wrong too.
position, but Dayne will be our Crist was not the presumptivestarter, and I expect him to be starter, but the fact that he wonour starter for 13 weeks.” 
the job could be the differenceCrist returned to the field 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Senior Dayne Crist prepares to throw a pass during fall practice. Crist was named the starting see KELLY/page 20 quarterback yesterday for the season opener against South Florida Sept. 3. see CRIST/page 20 


ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Notre Dame opens season with win over Wisconsin 
said Fox’s performance ulti-we dominated it,” Waldrum close all night. Dalton record-Notre Dame came out and
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
mately determined the out-said. “I think our players are ed 10 saves for the Badgers (0-controlled the ball for the 
Sports Writer 
come of the game on a day aware that you have to finish 1), who finished 7-1-2 in the majority of the second half, 
when few Wisconsin shots those chances because this Big Ten last season. barely surpassing a team goal 
Junior goalkeeper Maddie found their way through the game could have been a differ-Sophomore forward Adriana of 400 passes per game with Fox gathered three saves in Irish defense during their first ent story if they score one of Leon, fresh off a foot injury, 401, and limiting the Badgers her first collegiate start for the regular season home game. those goals.” got the Irish off to a 1-0 start to just 103 passes. Irish, giving the defending “Defensively, I thought we No. 1 Notre Dame (1-0, 0-0 with 2:43 remaining in the “It’s hard when you’re national champions a defen-gave a couple of looks from a Big East) had several opportu-first half. Notre Dame senior against a team that drops off sive advantage in their 2-0 distance that we shouldn’t nities to blow open its lead, forward Melissa Henderson continuously, but you have to shutout over Wisconsin Friday have given. Maddie made a but a few Irish miscues and an earned the assist as she wove just continually run at them,” at Notre Dame’s Alumni couple of good saves there, outstanding performance from her way around a collapsing Henderson said. “I think we Stadium. where [Wisconsin] could have Wisconsin senior goalie Badger defense and sent a 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum been in the game even though Michelle Dalton kept the game deflected pass toward Leon. see BADGERS/page 21 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Final exhibition ends in tie 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
In front of a packed house at Alumni Stadium, Notre Dame’s final exhibition game 
of the season against Creighton ended in a 2-2 tie. Though the result of the game will not follow either team into its official season, the contest contained all the competition and drama nor­mally reserved for regular season games. 
“Although it doesn’t really matter, it always matters,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. 
Competitive play from both teams resulted in a com ­bined three yellow cards, including two in the opening 
SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer
30 minutes of the game, 
Irish senior midfielder Brendan King looks for the ball in see CLARK/page 19 Monday’s 2-2 draw against Creighton in Alumni Stadium. 

MEN’S GOLF 
Irish among Big East’s best under Kubinski 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
When Jim Kubinski took the reigns of the Notre Dame golf program in 2005, he had visions of an Irish team that could compete with the top programs in the country. 
Faced, however, with chal­lenges like the northwestern Indiana winters and the University’s stringent admis­sions requirements, Kubinski knew the road to the top would not be easy. 
Three Big East titles later, he will guide a 2011-2012 squad that has the potential to compete for its first NCAA championship since 1944. 
“We want to be in the situa­tion where we play in NCAA finals, not just the regional,” Kubinski said. 
Kubinski took a circuitous road to South Bend. He was born in Springfield, Mass. and graduated from Springfield College in 1993, where he captained the golf team his junior and senior years. 
He went on to play a num­ber of minor professional tours in New England before landing a job as an assistant golf professional at Greenville Country Club in South Carolina. There, he developed the teaching style that would lead GOLF magazine to nomi­nate him for its 2007 Top 100 Teacher’s List. 
see KUBINSKI/page 21 



