
Monday, October 3, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Notre Dame 38, Purdue 10 
Boilermaker blowout 
Notre Dame improves to 3-2 with decisive 38-10 victory over Purdue in Ross-Ade Stadium 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — For the first time this season, Notre Dame did not commit any turnovers, allowing the Irish to roll to a 38-10 win over Purdue. 
“I don’t know that it’s a sign of relief as much as we have a way we need to play the game if we’re going to be successful and we said that since day one 
— making good decisions and bringing it hard,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. 
The Irish (3-2) did not waste any time shifting momentum to their advantage after senior cornerback Gary Gray inter­cepted a pass on the first play from scrimmage. On Notre Dame’s second play, sophomore quarterback Tommy Rees con­nected with senior receiver Michael Floyd for a 35-yard touchdown and a 7-0 Irish ad­vantage. 
“Obviously on the road against a Big Ten team … get­ting Michael Floyd the ball ear­ly on really gave us a lot of con­fidence offensively,” Kelly said. 
Only a week earlier in Notre Dame’s 15-12 win over Pitts­burgh on Sept. 24, the Panthers held Floyd to four catches and 27 yards, forcing Rees to dis­tribute the ball to other receiv­ers. 

“I think more of a concert­ed effort to make sure [Floyd] got his touches and making it part of our gameplan,” Kelly said. “He has to touch the ball. is still work to be done. Every-tandem of junior Cierre Wood with very little rep work,” Kelly said he offered the opportunity Mike’s going to get the ball.” one was on the same page.” and senior Jonas Gray pow-said. to the senior before making the 
Floyd finished the game with Kelly said he noticed some ered an Irish rushing attack “I told our defense that it’s change. 137 receiving yards on 12 re-improvements from his sopho-that gashed the Boilermaker not pity time when you go in “Dayne wanted to get in … ceptions and the first-quarter more signal-caller besides sim-defense for 287 yards, the most there. It’s not acceptable to go [he] wanted to go out and play touchdown that ply not turn-for the program in eight years. in there and not play good de-and get in there and I have a lot put Purdue ing the ball “Our running game setup ev-fense. You’re getting coached, of respect for Dayne,” he said. (2-2) in a hole over. erything we did today,” Kelly you’re getting reps, it’s one “I’m not going to throw him from which it “I saw said. “I thought physically our area when those guys get in out there in meaningless situ-would not re-some re-backs, Jonas Gray and Cierre there they played at a level that ations but he wanted to get in cover. “Defensively it’s been very ally good Wood, really asserted their will I believe all of our defensive the game, so it’s always going 
“It’s just things [from on Purdue today. Playing that players can play to.” to be his first shot.” 
similar week after week, 

what the de-Rees],” he way gives them a confidence The Irish defense held Pur-While the 28-point victory 
making it difficult for 

fense gives said. “On the that there’s no reason the ball due to 84 rushing yards in an-gives the Irish some momen­
teams to run the football.” 

us,” Floyd said. last touch-should be on the ground.” other stifling performance. tum heading into three consec­“We watched down he Irish freshman defensive end “Defensively it’s been very utive home games, with a bye some film and Brian Kelly threw where Stephon Tuitt did not travel similar week after week, mak-week mixed in, Kelly said the thought we Irish coach he started with the team due to a violation ing it difficult for teams to run Irish are not a complete prod-could take his progres-of the team’s policy on class the football,” Kelly said. “The uct yet. advantage of sion with attendance, and the defensive keys were that we had to match “We haven’t arrived,” he some things Mike Floyd line depth was further chal-their intensity. I said earlier said. “I don’t like the fact we they do on the on an indi-lenged when senior defensive in the week this was the game had 30-something first downs field and we ex-vidual route end Ethan Johnson sprained they obviously circled on their and didn’t match it in points. ploited it … You and worked his ankle early in the contest. calendar. They had a couple We missed some opportuni­just have to stay the course and his way back to his fourth re-He missed the remainder of weeks off to prepare for us. I ties in close games, missing whenever the big play comes, ceiver. I told him …  those are the game and will be evalu-liked the way we matched their an easy field goal and not be-you have to make it.” the signs I’m looking for.” ated mid-week before the team intensity.” ing able to score seven. Those 
Rees finished the game 24-Yet, the development is a makes a decision on his sta-With the blowout win se-concern me a little bit, but we of-40 through the air, with 254 work in progress. tus for Saturday’s home game cured, Irish senior quarter-played well today and I’m not passing yards and three touch-“Then he goes and misses a against Air Force. back Dayne Crist replaced going to sound like sour milk. downs in the blowout victory. wide open receiver in the end “We were shorthanded, so Rees with 6:31 remaining in We have to put more points on 
“The offense was really click-zone and we have the conversa-consequently we needed [soph-the fourth quarter. It was his the board.” ing tonight,” Rees said. “We tion that we need to be consis-omore defensive end] Kona first action since being pulled had limited turnovers. We were tent,” Kelly said. [Schwenke] to come in and play at halftime of the 23-20 loss to Contact Andrew Owens at fundamentally sound, but there Notre Dame’s running back with us and he did a nice job South Florida on Sept. 3. Kelly aowens2@nd.edu 

player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Cierre Wood Notre Dame running back With his offensive line opening up gaping holes, Wood galloped to a career-high 191 rushing yards on just 20 carries.  7.2 yards per rush Notre Dame averaged 7.2 yards per carry, highlighted by Wood’s 9.6 yards per rush and Jonas Gray’s 6.3 yards per carry.  Michael Floyd’s 35-yard touchdown catch in the first quarter The Irish set the tone for the game early when, following a Gary Gray interception, Floyd scored on the game’s third play from scrimmage.  “[Coach Kelly] told us we had to be good in all three phases of the game, and that’s what we did today.” Jonas Gray Notre Dame running back  

page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 3, 2011 
report card 



B+ A A­A A­A­A­D+ B+ 
quarterbacks: In a positive step, Tom­my Rees avoided turning the ball over and threw three touchdowns. Rees still struggled to be consistently accurate, missing a number of open receivers. 
running backs: Cierre Wood reeled off a monster 191-yard performance, and Jonas Gray quietly added 94 yards of his own. Notre Dame completely domi­nated Purdue on the ground. 
receivers: It’s a testament to Michael Floyd that his 12-catch, 137-yard effort felt just average. Theo Riddick strug­gled mightily against double coverage, failing to catch even one pass 
offensive line: The offensive line com­pletely dominated Purdue’s defensive front. Anytime a team gives up zero sacks and rolls up 287 yards on the ground, the line has done its job. 
defensive line: Kona Schwenke did a good job filling in for an injured Ethan Johnson, and the Irish controlled the line of scrimmage. Without Stephon Tu­itt, the line was not quite dominant. 
linebackers: Manti Te’o had a field day against the less-talented Boilermakers, and Carlo Calabrese played his best game. Darius Fleming and Prince Sh­embo were fairly quiet, though. 
defensive backs: Gary Gray’s opening-play interception opened the floodgates at Ross-Ade Stadium, but the late Pur­due touchdown left a sour aftertaste at the end of the game. 
special teams: Ben Turk had two good punts, but the rest was ugly. David Ruffer hit just one of his three field goals, and the Irish still have no clue how to return punts. 
coaching: The Irish dominated both schematically and athletically on both sides of the ball and didn’t let Purdue up for air. The special-teams struggles are reason for concern. 
overall: The Irish beat up on a 
vastly inferior Purdue team, but the status quo on special teams 
3.41 will come back to hurt the Irish if they don’t fix it. 

adding up the numbers 

For the first time in five games, the nor­mally turnover-prone Irish did not turn the ball over even once. 

0 
Running back Cierre Wood averaged


9.6 yards per carry on his way to 191 
9.6 

yards on the night. 
Despite kicking the ball off to start thegame, it took Notre Dame just 24 sec­onds to record its first points. 


0:24 
80 
The Irish scored on 80 percent of their 
red-zone trips, a welcome change from 
the struggles in the first four games. 
The Notre Dame defense has still only


allowed one rushing touchdown all
year, a fumble recovery at Michigan. 

1 
The Irish rolled up 185 yards in the first quarter, the highest opening-quarter 
total since 2006. 
185 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Through five games so far this season, the Irish have experi­enced an entire season’s worth of parody. 
They lost to an inferior South Florida team simply because they could not exe­cute in the red zone and made error after er­ror, which cost them the win. 

They lost in Eric Prister heartbreak­ing fashion to Senior Michigan, giv-Sports Writer ing up a touch­down drive in the last 30 seconds of the game. 
The defeated a solid Michigan State team handily despite too many mistakes. 
They proved they could win in a close game against Pittsburgh even though they played their worst overall game of the season. 
And Saturday, against a team that did not even belong on the same field as them, the Irish dominated Purdue in every facet of the game, and finally earned a decisive victory. 
But now, it’s time to stop the parody and start doing what this team should have been doing all year — winning games consis­tently. 
Notre Dame is a good football team. It may not be one of the best teams in the country, but it is a solid football team with more talent than most of the teams remaining on the schedule. It is time to stop the parody and get down to business — the business of winning games. 
The Purdue game showed just how dominant the Irish can be when they execute and avoid turn­overs (despite their best efforts). Granted, Purdue is a terrible team that had no clue how to stop Notre Dame from doing exactly what it wanted. But the Irish did what they needed to do and dominated a game that they certainly should have dominated. 
Brian Kelly knew exactly what was at stake against Purdue. He never let his team take its foot off the gas and tried to move the ball even when the game was out of reach. He knew that consistency against Purdue means consistency as the season moves forward. 
Not only that, but the win over Purdue provided a solid recipe for success for the rest of the season. Tommy Rees is not going to win games on his own for Notre Dame, so the offense needs to start with the running game. Cierre Wood and Jonas Gray are running hard and seeing the field incredibly well — they have to be a main focus of the Irish offense moving forward. 
But the top option has to be Michael Floyd, just as he was against the Boilermakers. He is almost always the best, most ath­letic and most dangerous player on the field. 
Notre Dame is a very talented team, but has trouble using that talent as well as it should. Turn­overs have plagued the season and are the only thing standing between the Irish and a perfect record. They clearly have the capability to play like they did against Purdue. That doesn’t mean they need to beat every team 38-10, but that level of exe­cution is what should be expected. 
It’s time to end the parody. It’s time to let teams like Pittsburgh hang around; Pittsburgh is talent­ed, but Notre Dame is much bet­ter. It’s time to play more games like Purdue, and fewer like South Florida. It’s time for Notre Dame to play up to its standards and win games its should win — win them handily, like it did against Purdue. 
This year’s Irish squad is a good one. It’s time for them to play like it. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 






For once, Irish play to their potential 

Monday, October 3, 2011 The Observer u IRISH INSIDER ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


Wood runs roughshod over Purdue 

By ERIC PRISTER 
Senior Sports Writer 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Irish sophomore running back Cierre Wood did not receive his first carry until the 4:15 mark in the first quarter in Saturday’s 38-10 victory over Purdue. He took the handoff from sophomore quarterback Tommy Rees and scam­pered 19 yards for the first down. 
And that was just the beginning. 
Wood carried the ball 19 more times, finishing the game with 191 yards on 20 carries, most of which he credited to his offensive line. 
“My line just opened up everything 
— it was a free-for-all out there,” he said. “We were moving the ball excep­tionally well. I just ran off their blocks and it’s just a speed boost after that.” 
Wood’s 191 rushing yards from scrimmage, a career high, were the most for an Irish back since Julius Jones ran for 218 yards at Stanford in 2003. 
“It felt great,” Wood said. “We al­ways talk about ‘just another day in the office.’ I need to give a big shout out to my offensive line — it wouldn’t have been possible without them. They opened up the holes, and I just read their blocks perfectly and just got the yardage.” 
Despite not receiving a touch in the first 10 minutes of the game, Wood ran for 101 yards in the first half, the best half of his career and his third 100-yard rushing game of the season. 

“We just got rolling early, and we kept it going from there,” Wood said. “Our momentum was built up, and it never came down. Blocks were being made, our tackle was capping off the edge, and our tight end was moves, have to make the first person miss. But that’s what we’re here for — we’re football players.” 
Wood’s longest run of the day came midway through the second quar­ter, when he took a Rees handoff 55 yards for the score. Rees said it helped the 

capping off the edge, entire offense 
“My line just opened up 

and we just read off to have such a 
everything — it was a 

our blocks. I just want-productive run­
free-for all out there.” 

ed to make an imprint ning game. in the game and keep “It’s been it going in the second Cierre Wood working like half as well.” Irish running back that all year, 
The Irish offense was clicking on all cyl­inders, racking up 551 yards in total offense, something Irish coach Brian Kelly said all started with the running game. 
Wood said Notre Dame came into the game prepared to run the foot­ball, especially to the outside edge of the Purdue defense. 
“[Getting the ball to the outside edges] was the plan coming in, but like I said, it’s all about reading the blocks and taking what the defense gives you,” he said. “I took everything 
— I was like a kid eating candy out there. Whatever they gave me, that was what I was going to take. It feels good [to see so much open space.] 
“You just have to work on your but especially 
tonight, having 
them running 
and the offen­sive line do a great job and having both backs running hard and the re­ceivers making blocks downfield, it’s awesome to have big chunks coming out of your running game,” Rees said. 
Wood said he was satisfied with the outcome of the game, but that the Irish now must keep up the intensity for the rest of the season. 
“We have to be more consistent with it,” he said. “We have to bring that for the rest of our games throughout the rest of the season, and everybody’s eyes will start to open.” 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 




Irish dominate Purdue on ground 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — In its 38-10 win over Purdue, Notre Dame totaled 551 yards of offense, the most since gaining 592 against Washington State on Oct. 31, 2009. Of the 551 yards, 185 came in the first quarter. 
“I think on the road, it’s really im­portant [to get off to a fast start],” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “You take the crowd out of it and you want to be the first one on the board and dictate the tempo of the game.” 
The Irish picked up 34 first downs, two shy of the school record set against Army in 1974. It was the most they garnered since moving the chains 34 times against Michi­gan State on Sept. 21, 1991. 

Notre Dame’s 289 rushing yards were the most since accumulating 320 at Stanford on Nov, 29, 2003. 
“Our running game set up ev­erything we did today,” Kelly said. “When you run the ball effectively, you can play well.” 
Floyd sets another record 
Irish senior receiver Michael Floyd took possession of another Notre Dame career receiving mark with the 16th 100-yard receiving game of his career. Golden Tate held the previous mark with 15. 
“We made a more concerted effort to make him part of the game plan,” Kelly said. “He has to touch the ball and the offense has to come to him.” 
Rees strikes again 
Irish sophomore quarterback Tommy Rees threw a touchdown in his 10th consecutive game, the third-most in Notre Dame history. Brady Quinn holds the all-time mark, dating back to the 2004-05 seasons when he recorded a touch­down pass in 16 consecutive games. The strike came on the second of­fensive play of the game, a 35-yard touchdown pass to Floyd, silencing the home crowd. 
“It’s great getting out to an early lead,” Rees said. “Getting the first strike kind of killed some of the mo­mentum they had coming into the game — a lively night game with a home crowd and getting an early strike kind of helps pushing away some of that momentum.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 




scoring summary 
 1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
PU  0  3  0  7  10  
ND   14  7  14  3  38  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Purdue 0 
Michael Floyd 35-yd pass from Tommy Rees (DavidRuffer kick) with 14:36 remainingDrive: 2 plays, 35 yards, 0:10 elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, Purdue 0 
Jonas Gray 2-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with 0:03 
remaining
Drive: 13 plays, 82 yards, 4:12 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 21, Purdue 0 
Cierre Wood 55-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with 9:06

remaining
Drive: 3 plays, 79 yards, 1:03 elapsed 
Notre Dame 21, Purdue 3 
Carson Wiggs 27-yd field goal with 3:39 remainingDrive: 14 plays, 70 yards, 5:27 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 28, Purdue 3 
Tyler Eifert 6-yd pass from Tommy Rees (David Ruffer kick) with 12:00 remainingDrive: 7 plays, 69 yards, 3:00 elapsed 
Notre Dame 35, Purdue 3 
T.J. Jones 11-yd pass from Tommy Rees (David Ruffer kick) with 2:07 remainingDrive: 12 plays, 87 yards, 4:45 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 38, Purdue 3 
David Ruffer 21-yd field goal with 8:06 remainingDrive: 16 plays, 70 yards, 7:34 elapsed 
Notre Dame 38, Purdue 10 
Antavian Edison 13-yd pass from Caleb TerBush (Carson Wiggs kick) with 0:21 remainingDrive: 11 plays, 95 yards, 3:59 elapsed 



statistics 
rushing yards 


passing yards 


time of possession passing 


Rees            24-40-254  TerBush  10-15-101 
rushing 

Wood                   20-191 Hunt              3-25 Gray      15-94  Bolden        6-17 
receiving 

Floyd  12-137  Edison  7-105 Jones        5-49  Siller        4-26 
field goals 

Ruffer         1-3   Harper       1-2 
page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 3, 2011 


Never in doubt 
Gary Gray intercepted a Caleb TerBush pass on the first play from scrimmage, Michael Floyd scored a touchdown two plays later and Notre Dame never looked back in blowing by Purdue 38-10 in Ross-Ade Stadium. Cierre Wood had a career day on the ground, racking up 191 yards on 20 carries, while fellow running back Jonas Gray added 94 yards of his own. While the Irish special teams continued to struggle, it was never a problem, as Purdue simply could not compete with the more talented Irish. Only the Boilermakers’ last-minute touchdown kept the score from looking like the blowout it actually was. 
TOM YOUNG/The Observer 



TOM YOUNG/The Observer GRACE KENESEY/The Observer 

Clockwise from top: guard Trevor Robinson blocks a Purdue defender; running back Jonas Gray fights off a tackle; safety Harrison Smith takes down Purdue receiver Gary Bush; receiver T.J. Jones catches a pass from quarterback Tommy Rees; receiver Michael Floyd attempts to escape a Boilermaker tackle. 


