
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


University to build wellness center 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
A new employee wellness center will add benefits for faculty, staff and their fami­lies, but its construction in the D2 parking lot will signifi­cantly reduce the number of parking spaces on campus for students, according to Univer­sity officials. 
University architect Doug Marsh said the University considered an array of sites for the $1.5 million facility. 
“A variety of locations were considered to meet the needs of the facility, which included the need to be convenient to employees and families com­ing from either work or from home,” Marsh said. 
Marsh’s office also con­sidered building next to the Early Childhood Development Center on Bulla Road. Con­struction on the new facility will begin in December and should be completed by mid­summer. 
“This site was selected be­cause it is near the B staff and faculty parking lot, at the edge of the pedestrian cam­pus and convenient to vehicu­lar routes,” Marsh said. 

Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) director Phil Johnson said construction will reduce the number of spaces in D2 South, one of the lots closest to Hesburgh Library. 
“Occupancy studies show we have capacity in other areas of D2 (the middle and north lots) for the cars dis­placed in D2 South,” Johnson said. “The changes will be im­plemented when construction begins — likely mid-Decem­ber.  So when students come back from semester break, some who would have parked in D2 South will be in the D2 middle or north lot. Spaces are available on a first come, first serve basis.” 
Some parking spaces will also be open in the D6 parking lot, Johnson said. NDSP will communicate with students via email as the construction moves forward. 
Off-campus council presi­dent Tess Fitzpatrick said stu­dents are disappointed in the University’s decision to relo­cate student parking for the project. 
“My biggest concern is peo­ple who are coming from off-

Governor encourages innovation, creativity 



By VIENNA WAGNER 
News Writer 
Governor Mitch Daniels hu­mored fans of Star Trek as he explained why Indiana should be the place where Notre Dame graduates choose to “go forth and prosper” during his lecture on enterprise and entrepreneur­ship in the Mendoza College of Business’s Entrepreneurial In­sights lecture series. 
“The objective is to make tal­ented people like you to plant your flag in this state,” Daniels said Tuesday. “We want talented people like you to stay in Indi­ana.” 
Daniels emphasized the im­portance of innovation and the creative minds its fosters in the state of Indiana. 
“The culture in our state en-


see DANIELS/page 5 



campus houses,” Fitzpatrick said. “It’s hard enough to park now without the renovations. As of now, we are going to have to use a shuttle … It’s go­ing to be a huge hassle.” 
Fitzpatrick said the Uni­versity did circulate a survey about how many students would be interested in using a shuttle service from the C­lot, which is located south of Notre Dame Stadium. The shuttle would run a 4-minute 


see WELLNESS/page 5 
LIGHTS donates to high schools 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Used science equipment has found new life in needy high schools thanks to the year-old Notre Dame Laboratory Instru­mentation Giving Hope to Stu­dents (ND LIGHTS) initiative. 
The program has successfully donated 12 pieces of campus equipment valued at more than $275,000 to six schools partici­pating in the Alliance for Catho­lic Education (ACE) program, ND LIGHTS Director Dr. Michelle Vi­glietta Joyce said. 
“This program has evolved into a place for a second life for equipment,” she said. “We take care of all of the paperwork. All the professor has to do is say, ‘I have this machine and want it to be donated.’ All the schools have to do is pay for the transportation … It’s a win-win for everyone.” 
The program finds high 


see LIGHTS/page 5 

Band plays in front of Capitol 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 

Instead of Touchdown Je­sus and the Golden Dome in the background of its per­formance, the Washington Monument and the U.S. Capi­tol Building flanked the Notre Dame Marching Band this past weekend. 
The band played a set of patriotic songs and a few of its popular hits in front of the Capitol on Saturday as part of the football team’s neutral site game at FedEx Field in Lando­ver, Md., Band Director Ken­neth Dye said. 
“To see the band standing there in front of the Capitol with the Irish Guard in their red uniforms, with the Ameri­can flag in the background — it was a pretty special picture,” Dye said. 
The show took place the day after Veteran’s Day, and the band played songs such as “God Bless America” and a medley of military service academy songs to honor those who have served our country, Dye said. 
“Being Veteran’s Day week­end, we decided to focus on recognizing the veterans,” he said. 
The band spent three weeks rehearsing for the perfor­mance, Dye said, as there were a lot of strict rules for the ven­ue. 


“We weren’t allowed to play ahead of time,” Dye said. “You get a start time of precisely 12 noon, and you have to end by 
12:45 p.m. because they don’t want to think that it is some kind of a rally.” 
The band also would have had to move the concert if Con­gress had called a special ses­sion, he said. 
This was not the first time the band has played at a fa­mous public setting. As a part of last year’s neutral site game, the band performed in the hus­tle and bustle of Times Square. 
“Times Square was a back-
see BAND/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Lopex reflects on UN experience page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u CripSlam discusses disabilities page 8 u Football Senior Day page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Wednesday, November 16, 2011 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD COMBINE TWO ANIMALS, WHAT WOULD THEY BE AND WHAT WOULD THE ANIMAL BE CALLED? 

Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Becca Huffer  Tre Carden  Jeff McLean  Jenna Spirzzirri  Ryan Geraghty  
senior  junior  sophomore  senior  senior  
off campus  off campus  Keough  off campus  O’Neill  
“A fox and a  “Squirrel and  “A bear and a  “A zebra and a  “I would  
snail, and it’d be  a turtle, and  deer, and call it  duck, called a  combine a seal  
called a fail.”  it’s called a squirtle.”  a beer.”  zuck.”  and a great white shark,  
called a glorbill.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Woman dies from 15-year­old gunshot wound 
KENT, WA — In what au­thorities have deemed a ho­micide, a woman in Kent, Washington died last week from injuries sustained dur­ing a 1996 shooting. 
Lakessha LaShawn John­son, 34, was found dead at her home on Nov. 8, but not from any recent injury or crime. Kent Police Lt. Patrick Lowery said Johnson died after complications from a gunshot wound inflicted more than 15 years ago in ei­ther Renton or Seattle. 
The King County Medical Examiner’s Office said to­day that Johnson had been shot in the spine, leaving her paralyzed and suffer­ing from “multiple chronic pressure ulcers,” the medi­cal equivalent of bed sores, which became infected over time. They have not yet said whether the bullet was still lodged in Johnson’s body at the time of her death. 

“We will be reaching out to both agencies to determine where the original shooting occurred and pass this in­formation on to that agency,” Lowery said. 
Severed bison head replaces traditional garden gnome 
BOULDER, CO — Police in Boulder have figured out why a severed bison head myste­riously turned up Sunday on a decorative rock in a local resident’s front yard. 
The bison head belongs to someone who lives in the house who forgot to tell his roommates about the dis­turbing temporary lawn or­nament. 
A police spokeswoman, Kim Kobel, said authorities first made sure to rule out an attack on the University of Colorado’s mascot, a buffalo named Ralphie. 
With Ralphie’s safety as­sured, police discovered that the bison head came from a recently slaughtered buffalo at a Nebraska ranch. 
Kobel said her department would not release the names of the housemates involved. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Today, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., the fair trade reltailer Ten Thousand Villages will be on Notre Dame’s campus to host the annual sale of international handicrafts. This year’s sale will take place in the Hesburgh Li­brary Atrium during Inter­national Education Week. 
This afternoon, from 12 to 1:30 p.m., there will be a panel discussion titled, “The Church in Africa in Service to Reconciliation, Justice, and Peace.” The event will be held in the Geddes Hall Coffee House. Lunch will be provided. The discussion is open to the public. 
The Campus Ministry Internship program will be holding an information session this evening from 6 to 7 p.m. in Room 114 of the Coleman-Morse Center. Pizza will be provided. 
Come sample a variety of cuisines from around the world at the International Taste of South Bend tonight from 6 to 8 p.m., hosted by local ethnic restaurants. The event will be held in the Ballroom of the LaFortune Student Center. 
Tonight, from 7:30 to 
9:30 p.m., see the opening performance of the play “Provenance” by Notre Dame Moreau Fellow Anne Garcia-Romero. The per­formance will be held in the Philbin Studio Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Amanda Gray Mel Flanagan Jillian Barwick 

Graphics 
Brandon Keelean 

Photo 
Pat Coveney 


Sports 

Andrew Gastelum Jack Hefferon Brian Hartnett 

Scene 

Mary Claire O’Donnell 

Viewpoint 


LOCAL WEATHER 
HIGH 39 LOW 31 

HIGH 40 LOW 30 
HIGH 50 LOW 41 
HIGH 51 LOW 41 
HIGH 42 LOW 30 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 
Ren Brauweiler 











CORRECTIONS 

Due to an editing error, an article in the Nov. 18 edition of The Observer incorrectly stated the future position of Dean Carolyn Woo as the CEO of Catholic Charities. Woo will assume her position as the CEO of Catholic Relief Services in January. The Observer regrets this error. 
Wednesday, November 16, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
Lopez reflects on UN experience 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
A crowd of individuals cu­rious about what it would be like to travel around the world working for the United Nations came to hear Professor George Lopez give the talk, “Denucle­arizing North Korea: Confes­sions of a UN Practitioner,” Tuesday in the Hesburgh Cen­ter for International Studies. 
Lopez returned to the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies this semester af­ter working for 10 months as a part of a UN panel of experts on denuclearizing North Korea. 
“We were a particular kind of functional panel that was put together because of skills associated with high tech transfer of goods and money,” Lopez said. 
Lopez said his particular expertise on the panel was primarily related to sanctions involving terrorism and the fi­nancing of international illicit goods, as well as nuclear ma­terials. 
There have been two Secu­rity Council resolutions passed regarding North Korea and its nuclear program, Security Council Resolution 1718 (2006) and Security Council Resolu­tion 1874 (2009), he said. 
“When the second nuclear test occurs and security coun­cil resolution 1874 passes a new wave of sanctions, then the security council gets seri­ous and says, ‘We really have to have a panel of experts moni­toring sanctions evasion and sanctions implementation,’” he said. 
While working on the panel, Lopez said there were some distinct challenges to sanc­tions regimes, or the institutes implementing the sanctions, when dealing with the control of nuclear materials. 



“The first and most impor­tant is, if we look at the history of how states have denucle­arized, sanctions may have played a role for a good bit of the time, but so too had the in­jection of diplomatic dialogue and ultimately a package of very attractive incentives,” he said. 
Nevertheless, Lopez said the Security Council can impose sanctions, but they cannot give incentives. 
“They have one half of the equation,” Lopez said. “They hope that other states will rise to the occasion and at ap­propriate times engage in the incentives stuff, but the coun­cil has no authority to call for that.” 
While serving on the panel, Lopez dealt with the illicit net­works of money, illicit goods and dual-use goods, or goods that can be used for good and legal uses, but also have the capability to become illegal. 
Lopez said a way to combat these complex and sophisti­cated networks is to find and disrupt the systems. 
Lopez said his most difficult arguments with his Chinese colleague was convincing him he was not there to strangle North Korea, but rather to find and disrupt the illicit net­works. 
“With sanctions, you’re only as strong as your weakest link,” he said. “The UN now needs to reevaluate and imple­ment ways to strengthen that link.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
Panel criticizes misuse of ‘Navajo’ symbols 
By JULIA HARRIS 
News Writer 
The offensiveness of native symbols used in consumer cul­ture was the topic of a student panel, “Urban Outfitters and the Navajo,” held Tuesday at Saint Mary’s College. 
“The idea of ‘playing Indian’ can be as harmless as dress­ing up, but taking native sym­bols and characteristics and using them for a purpose out­side their intended purpose has been a global issue,” vis­iting Assistant Professor Ga­briel Torres said in the student panel. 
Earlier in October, ABC news reported a story of a Native American women outraged by the use of the term ‘Navajo’ representing a line of about two dozen items which sport­ed a recognizable Navajo pat­tern on a drinking flask and “hipster panties,” claiming the items were racially insensitive to the sacred Navajo culture. 
Urban Outfitters was con­fronted with a legal matter that determined the misnomer vio­lated the Indian Arts and Craft Act of 1990 and could cost the store a fine of up to $1 million. The store promptly removed the term ‘Navajo’ from the line, though the clothing line contin­ued to be sold in Europe under the title. 
“At least here in America, we have a chance to understand that the culture is being mis­represented,” junior Mara Scott said. “In Europe, they’ll just assume it’s how Native Ameri­can people are. It’s like they’re being purposely obtuse.” 
Tamara Taylor, the assistant director of Multicultural Ser­vices, said that the legal issue limits the opportunity for com­munication and education.  She said that the items in the ‘Na­vajo’ line, the flask in particu­lar, foster stereotypes that hurt the Native American people. 
“They’ve limited the oppor­tunity for dialogue,” she said. “So they remove the name, but what about next time when it happens again? There’s a deep­er issue. We can’t move forward with that conversation.” 
Students and faculty also dis­cussed present representations of Native American mascots, logos and nicknames nation­wide. 
“The Braves, the Kansas City Chiefs, the mascots become their identity,” associate po­litical science professor Marc Belanger said. “Yes, it’s built off an image, but it’s hard to picture them without that tra­dition. The tradition argument is very hard to get passed, but outside the realm of public dis­course, it is a Native American image. They have the right to control their images and how they are used.” 
The Native American Heri­tage Student Involvement and Multicultural services spon­sored the panel. Some students said that the discussion was both enlightening and enrich­ing. 
“It was interesting to see dif­ferent takes on the issue, par­ticularly those of Native Ameri­can descent,” Scott said. 
Contact Julia Harris at jharri01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Wednesday, November 16 , 2011 
Documentary draws attention to refugees 
Banquet raises hunger awareness 


By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Liberty in North Korea (LiNK) is helping break the silence that has defined North Korean refugees’ lives, according to intern and pro­gram nomad Stephen Erich. 
LiNK arrives at Saint Mary’s College on Wednes­day at 7:30 p.m. in the Vander Vennet theater to show the documentary “Hiding,” a film that focuses on refugees in China and Southeast Asia. 
Erich travels around the Midwest with three other no­mads spreading the word and showing the documentary. 
“Every season, spring and fall, we do awareness tours where we travel around for 10 weeks,” Erich said. “We show a documentary and talk about what’s going on.” 
Erich said the film is inter­esting because it gives back­ground on North and South Korea and covers current events, all while telling the North Korean refugees’ sto­ries. 
“Every month or so, we have a mission where we bring out a number of refugees, and that August we had a mission where we brought out four refugees,” he said. “The vice president and our film guy went to China to follow the mission through the under­ground, so ‘Hiding’ tells the story of those four refugees and has personal interviews with three of the four.” 
LiNK was founded in 2004 by Korean-American students who wanted to make a differ­ence, Erich said. 
“There was a Korean-American student confer­ence at Yale, and the stu­dents watched a documentary [about North Korea] and they all got inspired to do some­thing about what is going on in North Korea,” Erich said. “So they started LiNK, and it spread out from there across the nation.” 
Now, LiNK operates on college campuses and high schools across the country. 
“It started out as a bunch of pockets across the U.S. and has grown into a more orga­nized movement,” Erich said. 
LiNK is not just an orga­nization that brings aware­ness. It actively seeks to bring North Korean refugees to safety, he said. 
“We work directly with refugees. We provide emer­gency relief to North Korean refugees,” he said. “We do that through an underground railroad-type thing in China, and then we have a shelter in Southeast Asia and we re­settle the refugees in the U.S. and South Korea.” 
Erich said there are three classifications of people in North Korea: loyal, wavering and disloyal. 
“The loyal class [members] — they live in Pyongyang — have access to resources, are educated. The wavering class lives out in the country, and the disloyal class [members] could be in political prison or live on the outskirts, near the border with China,” he said. 
Because North Korea is governed by a totalitarian regime that seeks to control every aspect of North Korean government and society, the regime does not take care of the disloyal class members. They are very often the refu­gees LiNK helps, Erich said. 
“They’re just trying to sur­vive,” he said. 
Once the refugees make it out of China and into South­east Asia to the LiNK shelter, they are given the skills and education they need to live on their own outside of North Korea. 
Due to security issues, the Southeast Asian country where the shelter is located cannot be named, Erich said. 
“While they are in our shel­ter, we try to educate them as much as we can,” he said. “They can spend anywhere from a month, eight months, 10 months [or a] year in our shelter. While they’re in the shelter, we teach them skills like money handling skills, culture — how to live on their own.” 
LiNK also educates and in­forms the refugees about re­turning to South Korea or go­ing to the U.S. The refugees then decide which country they want to live in, Erich said. 
In the last two years, LiNK has helped 62 North Koreans reach safety. Overall, the or­ganization has helped 72 ref­ugees find a new home. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
By MADELINE MILES 
News Writer 

Students, faculty and staff took on new identities Tuesday night for the seventh annual Hunger Banquet, sponsored by Saint Mary’s College Student Di­versity Board (SDB). 
“Millions of people around the world, as well as [those] within the South Bend community, struggle with the challenges of poverty and hunger every single day,” SDB president and senior Kelly Reidenbach said. “While at Saint Mary’s, it is easy to take for granted all of the pleasures and luxuries that we have the opportunity to indulge in. The Hunger Banquet is a way for students and faculty to step out of their comfort zones and into the reality of poverty and hun­ger.” 
Identity slips were given upon entry to the Banquet, placing participants in either the lower, middle or upper class. The par­ticipant’s role determines what and how much food is placed on his or her plate. The Banquet simulated which economic class each participant was assigned to. 
Senior Anabel Castaneda re­flected on the importance of the Hunger Banquet at the College. 
“At Saint Mary’s, we get placed in a secure little bubble,” Castaneda said. “At times, many forget that it’s a cruel world and it should just make students want to make a difference in the world.” 
Co-chair junior London La-mar hoped that the Banquet raised awareness of poverty and hunger on campus. 


“By making more individu­als aware of the issues centered around hunger, injustice and poverty, there will be a greater chance to stop it,” she said. “The Banquet is truly a rewarding ex­perience.” 
In addition to roles given to participants, SDB invited clients from the Center for the Home­less to the dinner, as well as a refugee family now living in Mi­chiana. Through conversation, the guests shared their stories of hunger and despair with the Saint Mary’s community. 
Attendees of the Hunger Banquet were able to experi­ence poverty for a night, which is exactly what SDB hoped for to raise awareness on campus. Castaneda said she was glad to be involved in the event. 
“It was a great opportunity to hear what it is like to actually be in poverty,” she said. 
Contact Madeline Miles at mmiles01@saintmarys.edu 


Wednesday, November 16, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
Band 
continued from page 1 

Group discusses drop with a lot of people,” Dye said. “There were taxis honk­ing their horns, there were po­
club sponsorships lice sirens and there were the video boards and lights going 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s Student Gov­ernment Association (SGA) met Tuesday to discuss budget allo­cations and events for the spring semester. 
Each year, SGA distributes a certain portion of the budget to sponsorships and allotments for recognized clubs and organiza­tions on the Saint Mary’s cam­pus. 
Clubs can apply for allocations at the beginning of the year to purchase materials that are necessary in order for the or­ganization, board or committee to exist and function effectively. If clubs require more funds to put on an event, they may ap­ply to SGA for a sponsorship to acquire additional resources to ensure that that event occurs. 
Executive treasurer Emma Brink said that SGA aims to ap­prove more sponsorships this year. 
“We want to shift more from allotments to sponsorships to promote more events on cam­pus,” she said. “We want every­one on campus to be able to at­tend.” 
Executive treasurer Liz Busam said that of the $8,000 SGA had allocated to allotments for clubs at the beginning of the year, only $1,775.16 had been used. Before opening up discus­sion to the rest of SGA, Busam said that she felt the remaining $6,224.82 should be transferred to the sponsorship fund. 
“I feel it should be given to the clubs,” she said. 
Other members said they agreed, but some proposed that sites because they allow its members to bond and share special memories together. 
“It’s trips like this that really bring us together as a band family,” Morrow said. 
She said performing in front of the Capital was “thrilling” building made us play really well.” 
Even though the band was 600 miles from Notre Dame Stadium, Morrow said the ex­perience was familiar. 
“It felt like being in the Notre Dame Stadium, the re-
and a “once­in-a-lifetime experience.” 
“It was surreal just 
Sophomore 
looking out at the 
trombone 
National Mall and 
Andrew Ma-
seeing the Washington 
rino said the 
performance Monument in front of you was one of and seeing all the famous the band’s historic buildings.” best. 
“It was 
Andrew Marino 
surreal just 
sophomore 
looking out at the National Mall and action that we got from the crowd,” Morrow said. “They loved it.” 
Dye said the band con­cert was a perfect kick­off to the foot­ball weekend. 
“[The band mem bers] did a terrific job,” he said. 
LIGHTS 
continued from page 1 
schools in need across the coun­try and prepares the donation, Joyce said. 
“Everyone is very supportive of this project,” she said. “I’m so appreciative of the department, the dean of the College of Sci­ence and the Office of Sustain­ability. They helped me turn this idea into a reality.” 
The origin of ND LIGHTS lies in West Virginia, Joyce said. 
Joyce’s father, a retired prin­cipal at a West Virginia high school, spent 40 years encour­aging students to grow and ex­plore with education, she said. Joyce, an assistant professional specialist in the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, took these teachings to heart when she founded ND LIGHTS last year to give old scientific equipment from Notre Dame science labs to resource-lim­ited schools across the United States. 
“I always watched him pro­vide the best for his students, especially in the sciences,” she said. “It was my high school chemistry lab that got me in­terested in chemistry. That’s where you can get kids interest­ed in making this into a career.” 
Joyce creates experiments for teachers to perform with their students at the recipient schools. 
“What sets this program apart is the fact that we develop these experiments,” she said. 
it should be given to the Class Boards. 
Sophomore class president El­liot Miller said the remaining money should be given to the Freshman Class Board because it receives $500 less than the Junior and Sophomore Class Boards and $1,000 less than the Senior Class Board. 
“I feel that by giving Freshman Class Board less money than ev­eryone else, it limits them and the events they can put on,” she said. “If we gave them some ex­tra money, we would be encour­aging them to plan more events.” 
Busam said the purpose of giving the Freshman Class Board less funding was not be­cause they aren’t as important on.” 

Dye said the setting at the Capitol had a different feel. 
“In the Capitol, it was much more stately and solemn,” he said. “It was more patriotic.” 
Dye said the audience at the Capitol was very supportive and enthusiastic. 
“We got a terrific reaction [from the audience] because most of them were Notre Dame fans,” he said. “They really ap­preciated the setting. Bringing part of Notre Dame in front of the Capitol building was really special for the alumni, the par­ents and our students.” 
Sophomore piccolo Kath­erine Morrow said the band enjoys trips to different game 
later once SGA has a clearer idea of what the needs for the spring semester will be. Tech­nology commissioner Maureen Parsons said SGA would benefit by waiting to move the leftover money. 
“I think we should wait and see how things play out in Janu­ary, just in case,” she said. 
After a motion was passed to table the issue until the first meeting of the spring semester, each organization within SGA updated members on that com­mittee’s future events and asked for feedback on activities that have occurred throughout the semester. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 

route between Main Circle, Library Circle and the C-lot. 
“We are looking into may­be if there should be further parking for on-campus stu­dents so off-campus students could park closer when they commute,” Fitzpatrick said. 
The Off-Campus Concerns Council will continue to dis­cuss how to help students ad­just to the new construction, she added. 
Denise Murphy, the Direc­tor of Compensation and Ben­efits for the Department of Human Resources, said the new center will provide bet­ter medical care for Univer­sity employees. 
“The Wellness Center pro-



“VWR, the preferred campus supplier of lab supplies, has partnered with us to donate all of the accessories and chemi­cals. They’re donating cases and cases so whole classes can do the experiment.” 
Joyce said she used journal articles to develop the experi­ments during the program’s first year, which she then taught to ACE teachers over the sum­mer to use in their curriculum this fall. Next year, she will look to local schools as possible recipients for program equip­ment. 
In the future, Joyce said she hopes more Notre Dame stu­dents can get involved with the project. One way they can do so is enrolling in a class this spring semester to assist with donations. The class, called “Instrumentation in Scientific Education,” will have two to three students working with the equipment to create experi­ments for high school classes. 
Beyond the instruments do­nated to needy high schools, four highly specialized ma­chines were also donated to Saint Mary’s, Joyce said. The machines are already being used in Saint Mary’s science curriculum. 
Contact Joyce at mjoyce@ nd.edu if you would like to do­nate or learn more about the spring semester class. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
seeing the Washington Monu­ment in front of you and seeing all the famous historic build­ings,” Marino said. “I thought we played to the occasion, and the amount of people there and playing in front of the Capitol “They worked really hard, and it came across very effectively. It set the tone for the whole weekend.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
as the other boards, but because “they have less events to plan.” 
Some members of SGA said 

vides an opportunity to en-offering an on-site wellness the extra money should remain 
Wellness 

hance the benefit program for center for faculty and staff in allotment and then moved to 
faculty, staff and their fami-for several years,” she said. another committee or section 
continued from page 1 lies,” Murphy said. “We are “Many organizations, such 
researching whether there will be op-“We are looking into portunities to maybe if there should offer services be further parking for for the fami-on-campus students so 
lies of gradu­
off-campus students 
ate students.” 
could park closer when 
Murphy said 
they commute.” 
the center will provide primary and Tess Fitzpatrick urgent care president 
needs, health Off-campus council coaching and care manage-
as Disney, Intel and Toyota, have offered the convenience of a wellness center to as­sist employ­ees and their families to gain access to medical care.” 
Occupa­tional health services, 
ment, preventative health and wellness programs, referrals to community physicians and a full pharmacy. 
“The University has re­searched the possibility of 
Daniels 
continued from page 5 
courages and celebrates those rare individuals who make the most change in our society,” Dan­iels said. “The death of Steve Jobs made people think about the in­credible effect that one person can have on the lives of others. The great scientist inventor has more of an impact on history than the greatest statesman.” 
Entrepreneurs have had a large impact on Daniels’s own life, he said. Daniels cited his gu­bernatorial campaign in 2004 as a direct result of entrepreneurial innovation. 
“The guy who nagged me into running for office is the same sensational, young Indiana en­trepreneur [Bill Oesterle] who started Angie’s List [a website for local service company reviews],” Daniels said. 
Throughout his tenure as governor, Daniels asserted that he has striven to make Indiana more welcoming to the growth of new technological businesses such as Angie’s List. 
“Seven years ago, until we changed it, if you bought a piece of heavy machinery, you did not pay sales tax,” he said. “However, if you bought high tech equip­ment, you did pay sales tax. We now have the highest tax credit for venture capital in the nation. I don’t know of a state that is more supportive of venture capi­tal in its public policy than we are. The illusive and single most important element is to ramp up wellness programs, lab ser­vices and physical therapy will also be available. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
the rate at which new businesses form, succeed and blossom.” 
Daniels also said government itself could become more effec­tive by learning from business and business practices. 
“Government is not and will never be a business, but it could be much more business-like,” he said. “We work to reward people, measure everything and build a culture of economy and perfor­mance in the state government.” 
Part of making government more business-like involves making government accommo­dating of entrepreneurial en­deavors, Daniels said. According to Daniels, Indiana is the best “sandbox” for investment in the nation. 
“The spirit of enterprise is more essential now than ever,” he said. “It’s important to not ob­struct the flowering and fruition of innovation. The spirit of enter­prise is still strong in our state. There is nothing we prize more than people who invent, innovate and take that invention to the marketplace.” 
Daniels closed his lecture by challenging Notre Dame stu­dents to contribute to the growth of Indiana enterprise. 
“I hope that most of you will devote your careers to the noble endeavor of creating opportuni­ties for others,” he said. “The very same spirit that innovates our best enterprises is still lack­ing in the public enterprise. I hope Indiana will be the place where you go forth and prosper.” 
Contact Vienna Wagner at vwagner2@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, November 16, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Jumbotron confessions 
I know that writing this will put me at odds with the majority of the stu­dent body, Brian Kelly and just about everyone under the age of 35, but I’ve got to be honest: I hate jumbotrons. I can’t stand them. And I’m thank­ful for every home game that passes without the loom­ing shadow of yet another gigantic screen darkening Notre Dame Sta­dium. 
Don’t get me wrong; I’m not against fun or noise or general rowdi­ness (ask anyone who’s had the misfortune of standing next to me during a game — I’m neither quiet nor particularly well behaved). I do understand that giant screens are helpful for people sitting in section 
123. They’re shiny new toys that im­press recruits. But I still don’t want one. 
I could bore you all by complaining about the commercialism of jumbo-trons and how installing one in the football stadium would be the end of traditionalism at Notre Dame, but other people have already made that argument. (Besides, I’m 19 years old and had never been to a Notre Dame game before freshman year. I’m not exactly an authority on game day.) 
No, what I really can’t stand about jumbotrons are the massive pictures of people’s faces that are inevitably plastered across the entire monstros­ity. As much as I love seeing every­one’s shining smile, I don’t want to gawk at a 20-foot tall representation of anyone’s visage. It’s just awk­ward. As far as I’m concerned, that sort of screen time is excusable only for deities and perhaps dictators of totalitarian nations. And as I don’t expect to see Jesus or Dear Leader on campus anytime soon, I just don’t need to see anyone’s face 16 times larger than is normal. 
But even worse, if that is possible, is the time-out crowd cam. Do they ever think about those of us who don’t like being on camera? Nope. 
Back in the third grade, I wiped out on my scooter and put my front teeth through my lip, leaving my smile slightly lopsided. I spent the next sev­eral rounds of school pictures being told to give the photographer a “real smile” instead of my sideways smirk, at which point I had to explain that was simply how my face looked. 
I’ve hated pictures ever since. My mom went with me to get my senior pictures taken because it’s the only way she could be sure they were actually taken. I probably won’t even read this edition of The Observer because I don’t want to see my head-shot. 
I don’t dislike my lopsided smile, and I don’t shy away from my reflec­tion (my roommate will tell you that I spend way too much time in front of the mirror.) But I still hate the very thought of myself on film. I realize that the jumbotrons won’t go dark any time in the foreseeable future, so for the time being, if the roving cam­era man could avoid us legions of the camera-shy, we’d all appreciate it. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at      vjacobse@nd.edu 

The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Perry’s fourth-grade logic 
How can a politician attempt to recover from a misspeak in a presi­dential debate that has incurred the joyous reception by so many come­dians that the word “oops” will soon be replaced with “pulled a Perry?” Simple: The politi­cian must himself become a come­dian. 
Damage control went into full gear as Texas Governor Rick Perry tried to laugh along with those who jumped on his “oops moment.” He appeared on David Letterman giv­ing the Top 10 List of “Perry Excuses” one night after the infamous presi­dential debate. Excuses like “I had a five-hour energy drink, six hours before the debate,” “I wanted to help take the heat off my buddy Herman Cain,” and “I don’t know what you’re talking about — I think things went well,” drew applause from Letterman’s guests and created more material for Perry’s critics and comic commenta­tors. But Perry and his advisors had used a tactic different from all his GOP opponents when it came to going on the defensive: the fourth-grade logic of laughing at yourself to avoid embar­rassment. 
Theorizing from the past actions of the GOP candidates, here is how each one might have responded having been faced with a similar scenario: Newt Gingrich would have chastised the media for either blowing the incident way out of proportion or for asking such a ridiculous question with the 

Alex Coccia 
Shard of Glass 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

intent of turning Republicans against each other; Michele Bachmann would have attributed the occurrence to a psychological phenomenon for which she would have had absolutely no academic credibility; Herman Cain would have simply denied the whole thing despite the number of witnesses; Rick Santorum would have blamed the gay community’s jihad against him for his failure; Jon Huntsman would have uttered a defense that would have been completely ignored by the media who had never given him a chance at winning; and Ron Paul would have acknowledged his mistake but would have taken pride in actually remem­bering four out of five instead of two out of three. And then there is Mitt Romney, who would have most likely had somewhere on his notecards the key components of his presidential platform. 
Perry, however, rose above all of the defiance and inaccuracies that seem to plague his fellow candidates. Perry laughed at himself and at a blatant mistake he made in his run for presi­dency. In an attitude reminiscent of his Oct. 28 speech at Cornerstone Ac­tion’s Annual Fundraising Dinner and Awards Gala in New Hampshire, Perry gave the Top 10 list on Letterman with the boyish smugness of a fourth-grader who had in fact slipped in the class­room, and was now standing up laugh­ing with the rest of the class comment­ing on how clumsy he was. 
Only this time, the class was the entire nation, and the context was no longer fourth grade. Most have com­pletely discounted Perry from the race, despite his efforts to renew his image. Jon Stewart locked in his prediction that Mitt Romney would be the GOP candidate the night after the “oops” moment. 
However, do not count Perry out, because there are three potential outcomes of Perry’s fourth-grade logic. The first outcome — he could lose all credibility as a presidential candidate, in effect handing over the presidential nomination to Mitt Romney and in the end becoming a political pundit, or a regular contributor to Comedy Central. The second outcome — he could truly recover from the “oops” moment, never make a mistake again and have an enormous showing in the 2012 primary season. All of this would have been because he had listened to his fourth-grade teacher (and strategic advisors) who said, “Rick, you have to laugh along with the rest of them.” The third outcome — well, I can’t think of the third. 
So will Perry be able to recover? Only the primaries will tell. One more “oops” moment and Perry is surely finished. However, if Perry does make a comeback and wins the Republi­can presidential bid, it will have been because of the swiftness with which he made fun of himself; the sympathetic nature of the American people who know all to well that an “oops” moment can happen to anyone; and … well, I can’t think of the third. 
Nonetheless, Perry should write his fourth-grade teacher a thank you note. 
Alex Coccia is a sophomore. He thinks that the bluntness of Jon Stewart and the sarcasm of Stephen Colbert strike a perfect balance in political analysis. He can be reached at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I love quotations because it is a joy to find thoughts one might have, beautifully expressed with much authority by someone recognized wiser than oneself.” 
Marlene Dietrich German actress 


WEEKLY POLL 
Would you wear a Fanny pack? 
Of course. Of course not. Only if it’s the latest trend. This shouldn’t be a question. 
Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday 
ndscmobserver.com 


Wednesday, November 16, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
#TwitterDoesn’tMakeYouStupid 
One sleepless night a few weeks ago, I found myself checking my iPhone every 20 minutes, searching for articles on Twitter that could captivate me while I waited for my brain to turn off. As I thumbed through Twitter, I stumbled Marc Anthony across an “Econo-Rosa mist” article that pissed me off and Bro Meets made me laugh at the World same time. 
That Tuesday morning, a random blogger called my social and intellectual being into question. An article titled “Researchers are looking seriously at #Twitter” headlined across my iPhone, a 45-character phrase that reiterates what uncomfortably-nostalgic old peo­ple and self-dubbed Neo-Luddists think about MyFacebooks and addicting In­ternets. I retweeted the post and began reading through the article. Skimming the article, phrases like “Twitter is de­grading the English language” and “Our ease with some words is being diluted” were illuminated in front of me, and I sat there laughing and doubting it all. I skimmed to the bottom, scrolled to the top to reread the byline and then began reading the article for the first time. 
As a student of the Y-Generation and an active inhabitant of the Twit­tersphere, in principle I am a dynamite representative of Twitter users whose reading and writing habits are ad­versely compromised. I found dozens of articles and blogs that talk about how Twitter — the social network that lets you write messages with up to 140 characters — is corroding our syntax and vocabulary with record accelera­tion. With Twitter’s 140-character limit, users are called to write in compressed sentences and adopt unique language conventions, and somehow because of this, our language is quickly and noticeably worsening. This all sounds like it comes right out of the short story “Flowers for Algernon,” where the protagonist’s intelligence increases but then quickly deteriorates; all the while, the reader watches these changes take place in the form of the main charac­ter’s increasing, but then quickly dete­riorating, writing quality. 
One of the first noticeable things about Twitter is the sentence structure and word quality behind each post. “The Economist” article began by com­menting that modern language “is being eroded” due to “a world of truncated sentences, sound bites and Twitter.” Because of that 140-character limit, many authors claim that sentences are shorter and words are less complex. Think eliminating colorful adjectives and adverbs, multi-syllable words and non-staccatic sentences in order to free up precious authorship space. “The Economist” source claims that how we express ourselves and use words is being diluted. The sentence with more than one clause is a problem for us, and the word of more than two syllables is a problem for us. 

Many also claim that the Twitter conventions are destroying the subtle­ties of human conversation. The use of hashtags (#) was initially employed in Twitter to denote a “Trending Topic” which, when first placed before un­spaced words, “helps Twitter and its users understand what is happening in the world.” Right now, #Hottest-PeopleOnTwitter and #ILoveHipHop are two Trending Topics which, in theory, should help you understand what’s hap­pening in the world. And, not only are hashtags wildly used, but the hashtag­ging convention has evolved as a means through which people preface jokes online. This most likely makes abso­lutely zero sense to anyone over 25 or for someone not on Twitter (#SorryIm-NotSorry). But using a “#” followed by unspaced words has somehow become a way users make jokes or express sar­casm, much the same way that differ­ent vocal pitches may denote different expressions. 
Sentence minimalism comes not just in the form of collapsed words and smaller sentence sizes, but as SMS slang and shorthand notation. The condensing of Laughing Out Loud, writing of “RT” (to denote another Twitter user’s quote) and emoticons in and of themselves are just a few examples of conventions that are supposedly destroying conversa­tions outside of the World Wide Web. Combined with a heavy use of bulleted text, our language theoretically should be in shambles. 
LOL. As an avid Twitter user, all of this strikes me as fear found only in sci-fi movies or among those worried about more #RebeccaBlack videos. To RT @mat from Gizmodo, “New tech­nologies change the way we think and interact,” but doesn’t mean that we’ve “lost something as a society.” To think that GenY is in risk of becoming one sentence, two syllble writers who use #s to make funny jokes gives zero credit to the users. 
What’s worse is the idea that these Twitter norms are moving into offline convo, like Twitter styles are replacing real dialog. To think that tech affects our grammar, social skills or even sleep cycle for that matter gives rise to the idea that we aren’t in control. The idea that I’ve been ignoring words  > than two syllbles or built posts < than 140 char long is fiction only “Flowers For Algernon” could rival. The bottom line is this: Twitter may be here for a while, but we will *never* let Twitter define how we express ourselves. That’s a #failwhale in and of itself, and would be caught well be4 it started to affect what big words we chose or how we compact writings. 
#Winning. 
Marc Anthony Rosa is a senior management entrepreneurship major. He can be reached at mrosa@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Brutality evident on campus 
As we approach the 42nd anniversary of Notre Dame’s suppres­sion of non-violent campus protestations of the Vietnam War, my thoughts are occupied by the recent reports of police violence in­flicted upon our fellow citizens engaging in demonstrations of pro­test and civil disobedience across the country. In Oakland, police exploded tear gas canisters upon citizen-Samaritans attempting to aid a man shot by troopers storming an “Occupy” encampment. The encampments in Portland and New York have likewise been raided, invaded by agents of institutional violence armed with mil-itary-grade assault weaponry and armored in Kevlar ensembles of faceless monstrosity. The cudgel of police force has even impacted the academic community. Last week, “The San Francisco Chron­icle” reported that UC-Berkeley’s campus police, in the course of tearing down student-organized “Occupy” encampments, attacked resisters who had linked hands to prevent the dismantling. 
Especially concerning to university students nationwide should be the provocation articulated in the official statement given to the “Chronicle:” 
“The individuals who linked arms and actively resisted, that in itself is an act of violence,” UC police Capt. Margo Bennett said. “I understand that many students may not think that, but linking arms in a human chain when ordered to step aside is not a nonvio­lent protest.” 
Beyond exposing what twisted logic underwrites the belief that lateral contiguity in affirmation of group solidarity is “violence” in the same sense as a projection of force outward, this statement ex­emplifies the culture of fear now extending to university environs. The unchecked equation of “order” with “health” or “safety” is, as it has always been, a formula for the conservative appropriation of violence. 
Our own University’s “Emergency Response Plan” speaks too of managing unexpected events “that may threaten the health and safety of the campus community or significantly disrupt its programs and activities,” including even “other events impact­ing the ... credibility of the University.” Programmatic continuity and institutional credibility were no doubt equally important to Berkeley’s administrators and enforcers. As an academic body, we should join our hands with the Berkeley community to dem­onstrate in solidarity that institutional violence will be met with public strength. 
Michael L. Norris 
graduate student off campus Nov. 15 

Unjust punishement 
Over the summer, while talking with a current student at Liberty University, I was appalled by the horror stories he told me about the oppres­sion and lack of free speech on his campus. As he described the multiple fines he incurred for using even the most mundane of curse words, I found myself wondering why anyone would attend a school like that. After last week’s Miss ND com­petition and the ensuing consequences for one of the participants, I realized that we all attend a university very much “like” that. 
For those who have never attended Miss ND, it is notorious for its irreverent humor and tongue­in-cheek sexism. But what was supposed to be a fun and unruly event turned into a self-expression nightmare. One contestant has been reported by a Notre Dame employee for sexual harassment in her jokes and is expected to receive extreme disciplinary action. If you ask people who went to the event what these charges are referring to, my guess is that they either wouldn’t remember or they would guess one of the numerous other sexual references that many of the contestants used. 
Furthermore, at the similar Mr. ND competi­tion, there were much more offensive jokes said on stage, but there was, rightfully, no disciplinary action taken. Singling out this one contestant for the relatively mild things she did while perform­ing in a show is unfair and unacceptable. While I first and foremost sympathize with the contestant for this possibly life-altering accusation, I can’t help but to be outraged at the school employees for their response. 
I understand that we attend a conservative insti­tution. I knew that when I applied here. But this is so far beyond over-the-top that I am beginning to question Notre Dame’s concept of right and wrong. 
If this report goes through, and this poor girl’s life is changed for making 199 people laugh and making one person mad, Notre Dame will start to seem to me like one of those weirdly strict schools instead of my home. 
Troy Suter 
sophomore O’Neill Hall Nov. 14 

A call for the students 
Dear Notre Dame Student Body, 

I know it’s not even Thanksgiving yet, but I am writ­ing this letter to implore you to join the Leprechaun Legion and support the Notre Dame Men’s Basketball Team this season. You probably did not notice, but this team ground out a tough and gritty win over the likely Horizon League champions, the Detroit Titans, on Monday night with its best player in a shirt and tie serving a (stupid and unjustified) NCAA suspension. 
I realize the game was at 9 p.m. on a Monday night and I can understand why some of the older fans in town couldn’t show up to that, but it seemed as if the band outnumbered the rest of the members in the student section. It was not the scene I had hoped to see from my alma mater. 
This is the last year of Big East basketball as we know it, and this team is young, athletic and tough. They’re not the polished squads featuring the likes of Chris Quinn or Luke Harangody, and for that very reason the team needs you out there night-in and night-out to continue to help defend our home court which has been one of the toughest venues to play in the country over the last five years. 
This squad will play with a ton of heart and emo­tion, scratch and claw in every possession, and I prom­ise you’ll be proud of the way they play. 
Sure, Sam Houston State and Delaware State — the team’s opponents this Wednesday and Friday — aren’t quite the buzz-drawing opponents you could hope for, but it’s an opportunity for you all to witness this team grow and root them on to victory. I know you guys have two hours you can give to this team — just put MW3 away for a night or two. 
Go Irish! 
Simon Chun 
alumnus Class of 2010 
Adam Steinbach 
alumnus Class of 2010 Nov. 15 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, November 16, 2011 

was responsible for researching the play and its perfor­mance history, stage design, costumes, makeup, sound and lighting. Co-directors senior Carolyn Demanelis and Ryan Belock, member of the class of 2011, assisted Director Bauer and Producer Joshua. 
Belock, a triple major in music, theater and graphic design, talked to The Observer about his experience with the project. 
“This project emphasizes everything that a com­mitment to unique collaborations in creation at Notre Dame should be about: embracing community. The time and talent given by everyone involved in this pro­duction illustrates what it is to support the University’s mission to ‘heal, unify, and enlighten’ our cast, crew and audiences,” Belock said. “After witnessing the suc­cess and high energy resulting from this project, my hope is that more programs and opportunities like this arise to showcase the incredible commitment Notre Dame students have to collaborating with their peers, professors and professionals.” 
Sophomore Stage manager Jessica Peek also gained a lot from the experience, intellectually and emotion­ally. 
“As stage manager, I have been involved in many different aspects of the production. From dramaturge to light design, I have become immersed in the proj­ect’s aim and message,” she said. “I find myself seeing and analyzing disability everywhere, and it has really opened my ideas to what disability means. Not only has this been a great learning experience, but I’ve also had a ton of fun working with the cast and crew and will be quite forlorn when it is over.” 
After the show, audience members are invited to dis­cuss the play and the issues it raises with the produc­ers, as well as Steve Fallon, Milton scholar and Notre Dame professor, and Mike Ervin, CripSlam Access proj­ect coordinator for Victory Gardens Theater. 
Fallon told The Observer about the importance of the disability of blindness for John Milton and for his Sam­son and how it is relevant to audiences today. 
“The play is a rich and complex work. Milton scholars debate whether Milton viewed Samson as a regener­ate hero or as a despairing and suicidal bully,” Fallon said. “This debate has been tied up, particularly since [September 11th, 2001], with the question of whether Milton advocates religious violence.” 
Producer Joshua explained how the production, unique in being the first production by a blind direc­tor, explores disability in multiple ways relevant for the Notre Dame audience. 
“At Notre Dame we’ve been engaged in a Disability Studies initiative that has aimed at bringing disability to the forefront of a range of academic disciplines. Fac­ulty and students have been focused on exploring, in our research and in the classroom, what disability has meant in the past,” Joshua said. “We hope to recover an important heritage and to stimulate debate about what disability means now and what it might mean in the future. CripSlam has given us the opportunity to bring both research and teaching together in a really exciting environment.” 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 
On campus 
What: CripSlam ND Where: Debartolo Performing Arts Center When: Thursday, Nov. 17, 6:30-10 p.m. How Much: $10 Learn More: performingarts.nd.edu 
CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 

Academic scholarship and fine arts performance collide Thursday in a unique three-part project at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center called CripSlam ND. 
The CripSlam ND project emerged when Professor Essaka Joshua invited Todd Bauer to Notre Dame to co-teach a session on “Samson Agonistes.” Bauer’s in­teresting perspective of studying the play inspired an entire project to be built around it. 
Thursday is the culmination of two years of plan­ning for this project. At the heart of the project are two classes that analyze literature and disability with Pro­fessor Essaka Joshua, the Joseph Morgan Director of the College Seminar in Arts and Letters and a specialist in Romantic and Victorian British Literature. 
There will be a pre-talk in the Browning Cinema by Professor Carrie Sandahl, associate professor of Dis­ability Studies at the University of Illinois at Chicago. Titled “Code of Freaks: Hollywood Images of Disability,” the talk will address the question, “How do Hollywood movies both reflect and create societal attitudes about disability?” Sandahl will present film clips from her feature length documentary film examining Hollywood images of disability from the 1920s to the present. 
The performance of “Samson Agonistes” will take place in the Decio Mainstage Theater. “Samson Ago­nistes,” John Milton’s last major work, presents the story of Samson from the Book of Judges in a drama modeled on Greek tragedy. 
The dramatic poem reenacts Samson’s final day as the blinded and imprisoned champion of the Israelites. He has his faith tested by visits from his father, Manoa, his wife, Dalila, and the Philistine champion Harapha. After passing these tests, Samson, empowered by God, pulls down the Temple of Dagon, killing thousands of Philistines and himself. 
Students were an important part of this production. Joshua’s classes formed the production team, which 

BRIGID MANGANO 
Scene Writer 

It would be safe to bet that 99 percent of students at Notre Dame have been to at least one movie theater in their lives. From that large pool, however, few will have seen a film in India. Nandita Raman’s award-winning “Cinema Play House,” a series of 14 photographs of his­toric Indian movie theaters on display at the Snite Muse­um of Art through Dec. 4, offers these students a unique opportunity to learn more about the rise and decline of Indian cinema. 
Raman herself will deliver a gallery talk at 6:30 p.m. on Thursday in the Mestrovic Gallery of the Snite Mu­seum. She will discuss not only her personal experience with movie theaters as a child growing up in Varanasi, India, but also the impact of home video on the movie theater industry and the ways in which cinema spaces reflect the personalities of their owners. 
The photographs themselves are remarkable for their stillness. Only one photo indicates movement or activity in any of the photos. They are enigmatic because it is not always clear why Raman chose to capture a bare wall with a broken light switch or a locked trunk bearing the scarcely legible label, “Handle with Care.” 
Some of the photographs are unambiguous depictions of theater spaces. One photo features an empty stage whose floor has been partially removed. Raman framed the stage tightly, bringing it quite close to the picture plane so that the viewer cannot help but wonder how it ended up in such a state of disrepair. 
Another photograph zooms in on three rows of num­bered, cushioned seats, while a third in the series of­fers a panoramic view of a large theater noteworthy for its missing chairs and decrepit ceiling. The viewer has no trouble identifying these photos as views of cinema spaces, even if they are a far cry from the modern cin­ema complexes to which Americans are accustomed. 
Other photographs look much more like domestic spaces, so that the viewer would be unlikely to associate the image with an Indian cinema without foreknowledge of the series title. A photograph of a curtained window through which light is streaming is a fitting example. The fire pail, fire extinguisher and portrait of a balding man, all of which are hung adjacent to the window, offer no clue that the space in question is part of a cinema. 
Certain photos attest to Raman’s appreciation of geo­metric form, including one of a paned, circular window whose shape is reiterated by two flanking film reels. Al­though all of Raman’s photos are aesthetically pleasing, this one in particular seems harmonious to the human eye. 
The most hopeful of the photographs, and my personal favorite, is the only one with people and a sign of move­ment. The photo was taken from the inside of a box of­fice, giving the viewer a look at the moviegoers from the point of view of a ticket distributor. Although the pane is dirty and cracked, the blurry outlines of moviegoers prevent this cinema space from having the air of aban­donment that characterizes all the others. 
Undoubtedly, Nandita Raman will have much more to say about this intriguing series, and all should attend Raman’s upcoming gallery talk. 
Contact Brigid Mangano at bmangano@nd.edu 
On campus 
What: Gallery Talk: Nandita Raman Where: Mestrovic Studio Gallery, Snite Museum When: Thursday, Nov. 17, 6:30-7:30 p.m. How Much: Free Learn More: sniteartmuseum.nd.edu 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

Wednesday, November 16, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
This fashionista has a confession to make: I own a pair of yoga pants. Shocking, I know, but I am human (although in most fashion boutiques I feel Divine, but that’s another column). I try not to call too much attention to them in the hopes of one day redeem­ing myself in my inevitable future meet­ing with Anna Wintour, but there’s no hid-Felicia Caponigri ing it. 
As the Scene Writer weather turns colder, they taunt me with their comfort and warmth. I stare at them like a style jet-setter adrift in a fashion des­ert, desperately seeking an oasis of ready-to-wear bliss.  These deranged halluci­nations highlight a problematic type of fash­ion interpre­tation: all or nothing.  Of­ten we feel as though we can’t be simultane­ously casual and dressy, 
net-a-porter.com 
comfortable and elegant. Calvin Klein yoga 
We are pants, $49 either in our finest clothes, longingly dreaming of the yoga pant aphrodisiac, or we are in yoga pants and other comfortable, sportive gear (think your favorite old t-shirt, or overused sweatshirt) with­out a care for how unpresentable we really look. Think Anne Hathaway in “The Devil Wears Prada,” dressed in her headband and sweatshirt after a day at Runway. Now think of her full Runway get-up. You see what I mean. 
It’s as though we fashionistas are dealing with our own Robert Louis Stevenson complex: Dr. Sport and Ms. Luxury. However, we are living in the 21st century. If ever there was a generation that could combine two dueling personas into one without forsaking any style desires, it’s ours. Recently, our London counterparts have blazed a trail to help us solve this very real style challenge. Enter SportLuxe. 
SportLuxe is a way of dressing that combines your finest luxury wear with those ever loved and oft-derided yoga pants. The main mission of the style movement is this: Wear the yoga pants and every other precious comfortable item in your closet, just not all together. Say you want to wear your yoga pants—go ahead, but pair them with a nice sweater and a suit blazer. 
Keep the shoes comfortable (ten­nis shoes, boots), but don’t go for the obvious choice. Pick the odd shoe out. Maybe they’re those pink Converse you’ve been dying to wear, 
or the green high-tops stashed in the back of your closet. Play with volume. Pair your favorite hooded sweatshirt with a down vest, adding jeans and a pair of killer shoes. 
Mat Madonia and Ladies, grab Jenny Mohrig model those stilet-SportLuxe tos—why 
not? 
Accessorizing is key here too. Un­less you want a Nicki Minaj (although she was recently front and center at Versace for H&M) or 50 Cent look, leave the sparkly stuff in your jewelry box. But do go big, and add touches of fur (faux or not, and as the weather suggests) wherever you can. 
The best part about this trend is its unisex factor. Incorporate your boyfriend’s sweatshirt into the look. 
Gentlemen, get a great parka with a touch of fur yourself and show the women how it’s really done. Note to all, however, leggings and other pajama in­spired gear 
outnet.com does not Alexander Wang cut-apply. Treat out blazer, $81 the struc­
ture of this 
ensemble as you would a job interview outfit and you’ll be good to go. 
At this rate, I might just incorpo­rate those yoga pants into my next Swiss Alps chalet ensemble. Well, a fashionista can dream, right? 
Contact Felicia Caponigri at                 fcaponig@nd.edu 

ONYINYECHUKWU IGBOANUGO 
Scene Writer 

Hailing from Zahm Hall, Damek Mitchell, also known as Slank, is creat­ing buzz as an underground rapper. The sophomore is part of E.O.P. Goon Squad, a group made up of friends from Lou­isville, Ky., Damek’s hometown. Slank released his mix-tape, “Nikez and Nike­portz,” earlier this year. 
“I grew up in a family with music, and I’ve always lived in a home with music,” the music major said. “I actually play the piano. I’ve been playing since I was about 5 years old.” 
His father was signed to Atlantis Re­cords as a soul singer in the 70s, and Slank said that he has been tremendous­ly supportive of his venture into rapping. 
The young rapped added he would consider rapping as a possible future. 
“I’ll definitely do something musical-ly-inclined if that doesn’t work out.” 
Besides rap­ping, the 19-year­old likes to party and hang out with friends. The name “Slank” was report­edly given to him by friends he played basketball with back home. 
“I played basket­ball at this commu­nity center gym in my friend’s neigh­borhood,” Mitchell explained. “Everyone there called me Slank as a nickname because I was tall and lanky. People just kept calling me that, so I made it my rap name.” 
Slank gave The Observer an insight on his life as a rapper, and what else char­acterizes the individual besides rapping. 
Onyinyechukwu Igboanugo: When did you start rapping? 
Damek Mitchell: Um … I started in 2008. 
OI: So, how exactly did you start rap­ping? What inspired you to start rap­ping? 
DM: Well, I went out with a couple of friends. When we were coming back, we were all drunk at the back of his car, and I just started free-styling. Yeah, that was how I started rapping. 
OI: Do you remember what your first punch-line was? 
DM: I can’t actually remember, but I’m pretty sure it was something lame (laughs). 
OI: So we heard that you performed at the underground rap show, how did that go? 
DM: Well, it was actually a competi­tion, and I won. They’ve had a couple rap shows in the past, and I’ve won a couple times. 
OI: Cool. Besides the underground rap show, have you performed at any other shows? 
DM: Yeah. Actually, when Big Sean came here last year, I rapped for him in Legends. They’ve also had other rap shows in school. I’ve rapped on North Quad before. So yeah, I have. 
OI: If there was any celebrity you would love to meet or rap with, who would that be? 
DM: I think that would be Juicy J from Three 6 Mafia. 
OI: What was your greatest challenge when making and releasing your mix-tape? 
DM: I think it was just trying to get the music out there. I mean, trying to just get people to hear your music. That was defi­nitely the greatest challenge. 
OI: So how do you think people responded to your mix-tape when it was released? 
DM: I feel like people really like it because we got re­ally good reviews on it when it was re­leased. 
OI: When you start off rapping, it’s really cool to have a lot of fans and a lot of people commend­ing your work. Have you gotten any fan letters? 
DM: (Laughs) 
Not a fan letter, but there’s this kid on twitter who was al­ways tweeting my lines. I don’t know who he is, but I found out that he had been tweeting my lines. I thought it was really cool that someone was doing that. 
OI: What have been the major setbacks to your rapping and music production? 
DM: The problem is that most of the members of the group stay in Louisville, Ky. The distance makes it harder to pro­duce songs together. But the guy who does my beats, Menace Rodman (also known as Tom Mealey), is a junior here, so that makes things easier for me. 
OI: Besides your dad, how do your oth­er family members react to your interest in rapping and music? 
DM: My mom? She doesn’t really care. My brother and his friends are actually really interested in my music. I know they are big fans of my rap. 
Slank has been “killin’ every sentence” in his mix-tape. Look out for this young rapper who hopes to go places. 
Slank’s mix-tape can be downloaded free and legally from Hulkshare.com/ eopgoons 
Contact Onyinyechukwu Igboanugo at oigboanu@nd.edu 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, November 16, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Coaches Roll Dice 
Gambling is a hobby for some. For others, it is a chance to relax, have fun, unwind after a long work week or satisfy an addiction. It takes center stage in houses across the world on a designated day of the week, at local slot machines and in Las Joseph Vegas Monardo casinos. 
Oh, and Sports Writer it also happens on the football field. 
On fourth-and-inches with the score tied 23-23 in over­time, rather than punt the ball away to Drew Brees and the New Orleans Saints, Falcons coach Mike Smith bet the game that his 5’10, 247-lbs. running back could plow ahead for the first down. Michael Turner was the horse that Smith had it all riding on, and it was a sad day at the tracks for the fourth-year coach. 
Turner, who rushed for 96 yards on 22 carries in the game (including five yards on a fourth-and-one in the third quarter), was met behind the line of scrimmage by a swarm of Saints defenders and was stopped well short of the 30­yard line. The Saints gained possession at the Falcon 29 yard line and ran four plays before John Kasay knocked home the 26-yard field goal to give New Orleans the 26-23 overtime win over the confer­ence rival. 
With the loss, the Falcons drop to 5-4 after entering the season with aspirations of ap­pearing in Super Bowl XLVI. Smith, meanwhile, is left to face an array of questions and doubts from analysts and fans. Smith stuck his neck out by making the call to go for it, and while any player or coach will tell you that a single play can­not win or lose the game, the play’s result certainly did not help the Falcons. 
But coaches repeatedly opt for a riskier option rather than placate themselves with the safer alternative, and the reason is obvious: there is the possibility to win big, to hit the jackpot. 
Saints coach Sean Payton was the beneficiary of Smith’s decision on Sunday, but he is no stranger to gambling on the gridiron himself. To begin the second half of Super Bowl XLIV, with his team trailing 10-6 and set to kick-off to the Indianapolis Colts, Payton famously rolled the dice with an onside kick. The Saints recovered the kick and became Super Bowl champions with the 31-17 victory. 
Payton seemed to be a ge­nius, and his call bold and ag­gressive. However, if the Colts had recovered the ball, driven 50 yards down the field on the arm of Peyton Manning to build an 11-point lead, Payton would have been a brash and foolish coach who made an inexcusable call. 
The gambling trend reach­es over into college football as well. On Saturday, after scoring a late touchdown to pull within one point of No. 5 Boise State, TCU opted to attempt the two-point con­version rather than kick the point after. TCU sophomore quarterback Casey Pachall swung the ball out to sopho­more receiver Josh Boyce, who wrestled the ball away from the lunging hands of the defender, shook off the would-be-tackler and bound­ed into the end zone. When Boise State failed to convert a 39-yard field goal attempt as time expired, the Horned Frogs secured the 36-35 vic­tory. 
Of course, players them­selves make an unquantifi­able number of decisions themselves during any game. Cut it inside or bounce it out? Tuck it and run or stay in the pocket? Jump the underneath route or retreat? But these are not gambles. Rather, they are instinctual reactions based on the immediate situ­ation. 
What coaches do on the sidelines is something differ­ent altogether: putting the drive, the game or even the entire season on the line with a single decision. And with the stakes so high —.money to be made or lost and jobs on the line.— it is amazing that the decisions are, in essence, gambles. 
For fans, these decisions, whether they are successful or not, represent some of the most compelling moments in sports. The difference between a win and a loss can be as slight as whether the offensive guard can push his man forward, the receiver can make an outstanding play or even as simple as the bounce of the ball. Ultimately, it all comes back to the coach. 
In hindsight, it becomes easy to judge and correct de­cisions, but beyond whether a decision is the right one or the wrong one, it must be respected when a coach goes all-in for his team. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Coach K reaches milestone with win 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Cheek to cheek, Mike Krzyzewski and Bob Knight hugged, a player and his coach celebrating a big win — one it’s safe to say might never happen again in college basketball. 
The man known simply as “Coach K” became Division I’s winningest coach when No. 6 Duke beat Michigan State 74-69 on Tuesday night in the State Farm Champions Clas­sic. 
The Blue Devils gave Krzyze­wski his 903rd win, breaking the tie with Knight, Krzyze­wski’s college coach at Army and his mentor throughout his professional career. 
With Knight sitting across the court at the ESPN broad­cast table, and with several former players in the stands — many able to attend because of the ongoing NBA lockout — Krzyzewski moved to the top of the list in front of a sellout crowd of 19,979 at Madison Square Garden. 
Krzyzewski went right across the court to hug Knight when the game ended. Krzyze­wski, tears in his eyes, broke away, and Knight pulled him back, hands on his shoulders, then there was one final slap of the shoulder. 
“I just told Coach I love him,” Krzyzewski said. “I wouldn’t be in this position without him. It’s a moment shared. I know he’s very proud, and I’m very proud to have been some­body who’s worked under him and studied him and tried to be like him. 
“I’m not sure how many peo­ple tell him they love him but I love him for what he’s done for me and I thanked him. He said ‘Boy, you’ve done pretty good for a kid who couldn’t shoot.’ I think that means he loves me too. At least that’s how I’m taking that.” 
Junior guard Andre Dawkins had 26 points for Duke (3-0), which took control with a 20-1 run that gave the Blue Devils a 61-41 lead with 
9:17 to play. Then it was just a matter of counting down the minutes — except for a late run by Michigan State that made it a five-point game in the final minute — until the celebration could get under way. 
It wasn’t the Cameron Cra­zies cheering their coach on after a few nights waiting and sleeping in Krzyzewskiville. But a pro-Duke crowd started to get loud as the Blue Dev­ils took control in the second half, as well as the fans from Michigan State, Kentucky and Kansas and a bunch of regu­lar old New Yorkers includ­ing flimmaker and New York Knicks fan Spike Lee. 
“The basketball gods are good ... they put two guys who’ve done a lot in the game together, special moments, and tonight is another one of those special moments,” Krzyzewski said of Knight’s presence at the historic game. 
The former players in atten­dance read like a Who’s Who of great college basketball players in the last three decades. 
And they were all there for one reason. 
“I can’t say I’m surprised be­cause I saw firsthand the level of preparation, the level of pas­sion he put into his program every single day,” said Shane Battier, who won a title with Krzyzewski. “I know if you gave him enough opportunity he’d give Bobby Knight a run for his money. It’s just amazing to be here on this night to see the culmination of this work.” 
Like many others, Battier doesn’t think Krzyzewski will be done adding to the win total for several years. 
“He’s ageless. He looks great. He looks the same as when I was a freshman,” Battier said. “There’s no reason to think he won’t be around for many years to come.” 
Dawkins, who had six 3-pointers, and Ryan Kelly hits 3s to start Duke’s big run. As Michigan State (0-2) kept miss­ing shots down low, Seth Curry hit another 3 for Duke and then the Blue Devils closed the run by making 6 of 6 attempts at the free throw line. 
The Spartans kept Krzyze­wski coaching to the final min­ute. They finally started hitting shots and forcing turnovers to close to 74-69 with 12.9 seconds left. 
Curry had 20 points while Kelly added 14 for the Blue Devils, who were 10 of 21 from 3-point range. 
“It’s a special moment,” Krzyzewski said of his family and former players being there. “At halftime I wasn’t sure we were going to have this moment. 

We beat a really good team, and I’m glad now we can just move on and just develop our team.” 
Krzyzewski used the New York Yankees to explain how hard it is to keep a program on top because of players changing every four years, or even earli­er with the NBA draft looming overhead. 
“We don’t have Jeter or Rive­ra for 15 straight years and you have to do it in intense competi­tion in a great school,” he said. “We never have problems be­cause usually we can develop a team. They want to be one, and I don’t have to fight that which is great.” 
Keith Appling had 22 points for Michigan State, and Bran­don Wood added 15. The Spar­tans finished with 21 turnovers. 
“I was in a no-win situation,” Michigan State coach Tom Izzo said. “I was either going to be the guy who threw the ball to Henry Aaron for the record breaker of the guy who shot Bambi.” 
Krzyzewski’s latest win had a very similar plot to the pre­vious 902 as the Blue Devils were patient in a spread offense that got them open 3s and they moved the ball around against a tired bunch of Spartans and finally found a way to the free throw line. 
The Blue Devils finished 30 of 41 from the line. 
Krzyzewski moved to the top of the list in his 37th season, all but five at Duke. He also coached at West Point, his alma mater where Knight molded a point guard into a coach for the ages. 
Knight won his 902 games in 42 seasons, six at Army, 29 at Indiana and seven at Texas Tech. Krzyzewski has four na­tional championships while Knight has three. 
Krzyzewski and Knight both led the United States to an Olympic gold medal, Knight in 1984 and Krzyzewski in 2008. Coach K will have a chance at a second gold when he leads the team of NBA players again in London next summer. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
PERSONAL  This Day in History- November 16  1957 - Jim Brown (Cleveland Browns) set an NFL season  1999 - Johnny Depp received a star on the Hollywood Walk of  Seinfeld Quotes  Cosmo Kramer: See, this is what the holidays are all about. Three  
1907 - Oklahoma was admitted as  rushing record of 1163 yards after  Fame  George Costanza: I got to  buddies sitting around chewing  
the 46th state  only eight games.  go home and take a nap.                          gum  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t  2004 - A NASA unmanned  Jerry: It’s 10:30 in the morning.  
go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance,  1915 - Coca-Cola had its prototype for a countoured bottle patented. The bottle made its commercial debut the next year  1981 - A vaccine for hepatitis B was approved. The vaccine had been developed at Merck Institute for Therapeutic Research.  “scramjet” (X-43A) reached a speed of nearly 10 times the speed of sound above the Pacific Ocean  George Costanza: I’ll tell you, I am wiped [about Festivus]                       Jerry: [about Newman] He lives down the street from my home. MY HOME, ELAINE. Where I sleep, where I come to play with my toys  
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  Thought for the day :  Cosmo Kramer: What do  
or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more  1952 - In the Peanuts comic strip,  1994 - Major League Soccer  you use for decoration?                         George Costanza: I’m disturbed,  
information, visit ND’s website at:  Lucy first held a football for Charlie  announced that it would start its  “ God never imposes a duty  Frank Costanza: An aluminum  I’m depressed, I’m inadequate, I’ve  
Brown.  inaugural season in 1996.  without giving time to do it. “  pole. I find tinsel distracting  got it all  
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  


page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, November 16, 2011 
MLB 

Hellickson, Kimbrel win Rookie of the Year honors 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Spotless through the summer, Craig Kimbrel struggled in the stretch. The newest NL Rookie of the Year intends to learn from a particular late-season blem­ish. 
The Atlanta Braves’ closer unanimously won the award Monday, with Tampa Bay pitch­er Jeremy Hellickson emerging from a talented crop to take the AL honor. 
“It definitely did surprise me,” Kimbrel said on a conference call from his vacation in Hawaii. “I expected it to be close.” 
The AL Cy Young Award will be an-wobbly as the Braves frittered away a 10 1/2-game lead in the NL wild-card race. 
Kimbrel’s eighth blown save of the year came in the final game of the season, when he walked three, gave up a hit and allowed the tying run in the ninth in­ning against Philadelphia. The Phillies went on to win in the 13th, costing the Braves a spot in a one-game playoff against St. Louis for the wild-card slot. 
“I blew many saves through­out the year. It just so happened that one came in the last game of the year with everything on the line,” he said. “My control 
was not there, 
I was all over 
the place. 
“I’m going 
to get over it, 


nounced Tues­day. Detroit ace Justin Verlander is  “It definitely did surprise me. I expected it to be close.”  but I’m not go­ing to forget it,” he said. “I need to fix it.”  
expectedeasily win.  to  Craig Kimbrel  K i m b r e l struck out  
“He’s  the  Braves closer  127  in  only  
best  pitcher  77  innings  
in the game,”  and  anchored  
H e lli c k s o n  Atlanta’s  out- 
said.  standing bull- 
Kimbrel  set  pen,  pitching  

a major league record for saves 79 games. He was 4-3 with a by a rookie with 46. He earned 2.10 ERA, and his long scoreless all 32 first-place votes in bal-span covered 37 2-3 innings. loting by the Baseball Writers’ “I did learn that the season is Association of America and out-long,” he said. pointed Braves teammate Fred-Kimbrel wound up tied for die Freeman. Milwaukee’s John Axford for 
The hard-throwing righty the NL lead in saves. He became was dominant for much of the the 10th unanimous NL rookie year and chosen as an NL All-winner, and first since Albert Star during his streak of 38 Pujols in 2001. Kimbrel was the straight appearances without seventh Braves player to win the allowing a run. But that string award that began in 1947, and ended in mid-September and first since Rafael Furcal in 2000. the 23-year-old Kimbrel was “There’s a lot of room for im-
NBA 

Players file antitrust suit, season thrown into doubt 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — NBA play­ers filed an antitrust complaint against the league in Minnesota and plan to file another com­plaint in California later Tuesday. 
The first antitrust suit vs. the NBA was filed in Minneapolis, where NFL players had some level of success in a similar court proceeding this summer. 
Timberwolves forward An­thony Tolliver, Pistons guard Ben Gordon, free agent forward Caron Butler and Derrick Wil­liams, the second overall draft pick by Minnesota in June who has yet to sign a rookie contract because of the lockout, are listed as plaintiffs in the Minnesota case. 
NBA players’ association ex­ecutive director Billy Hunter said another complaint will be filed in the Northern District of Califor­nia. Those plaintiffs include Car­melo Anthony, Chauncey Billups, Kevin Durant, Kawhi Leonard and Leon Powe. 
According to the Minnesota complaint, the class-action law­suit has been broken up into “subclasses” because they are “so numerous and geographically so widely dispersed that joinder of all members is impracticable.” 
The plaintiffs argue that the lockout “constitutes an ille­gal group boycott, price-fixing agreement, and/or restraint of trade in violation of the Sherman Act” and that the owners’ final offer for a new CBA would have “wiped out the competitive mar­ket for most NBA players.” 
David Boies, an attorney for the players, said in a press con­ference Tuesday afternoon the lawsuit was an attempt to restore competitive free-market condi­tions. 
“We hope it’s not necessary to go to trial,” he said. 
The NBA already has filed a pre-emptive lawsuit in New York seeking to prove the lockout is le­gal and contends that without a union that collectively bargained them, the players’ guaranteed contracts could legally be voided. During oral arguments on Nov. 2, the NBA asked U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe to decide the legality of its lockout, but he was reluctant to wade into the league’s labor mess. Gardephe has yet to issue a ruling. 
The league through its earlier lawsuit had tried to gain the legal home court. 
Now, various judges will have to sort who which court or courts will decide the issues. 
provement,” Kimbrel said. 
Kimbrel, who pitched 21 games in 2010 but still retained his rookie eligibility by throw­ing under 50 innings, earned 160 points in the BBWAA ballot­ing. Freeman, who hit .282 with 21 home runs and 76 RBIs, was second with 21 second-place votes and 70 points. Kimbrel and Freeman became the first pair of teammates to finish 1-2 in the NL rookie voting since Cubs outfielders Jerome Walton and Dwight Smith in 1989. 
Philadelphia pitcher Vance Worley was third and Washing­ton catcher Wilson Ramos was fourth. Ramos was kidnapped in Venezuela last week and freed Saturday when commandos raided the mountain hideout where he was being held. 
Hellickson went 13-10 with a 2.95 ERA in helping the Rays take the AL wild-card spot. He drew 17 of 28 first-place votes and finished well ahead of Los Angeles Angels first baseman Mark Trumbo. 
“It’s something I really want­ed to win,” Hellickson said on a conference call from his home in Iowa. He said there were “three or four guys” equally deserving of the award. 
The 24-year-old Hellickson was a big reason the Rays were able to erase a nine-game deficit against Boston in the last 3 1/2 weeks to win the AL wild-card spot. He was unbeaten in five starts against AL East teams in the final month, and finished 7-3 in games against division rivals. 
On the next-to-last day, he kept the Rays close against the visiting New York Yankees. On his final pitch of the regular season, Hellickson got Russell Martin to ground into a triple play with the bases loaded, and the Rays went on to win. 
Hellickson, incidentally, has a Yorkshire terrier called Jeter — as in, Yankees star Derek Jeter. Hellickson’s dad was a big Reg­gie Jackson fan, and the dog wound up with the name. 
Hellickson is generously listed at 6-foot-1, but held up extreme­ly well over 29 starts. He led all big league rookies in ERA, in­nings (189) and opponents’ bat­ting average (.210). 
He became only the second AL starting pitcher to win the award in 30 years, along with Verlander in 2006. Hellickson’s ERA was the best for qualifying AL rookies since Kevin Appier’s 2.76 in 1990. 
“I’ve believed in myself and had all the confidence in the world in myself,” he said. 
Like Kimbrel, Hellickson’s fi­nal outing was rocky. Against Texas in Game 4 in the open­ing round of the AL playoffs, he gave up a leadoff home run to Ian Kinsler and two homers to Adrian Beltre and left after four innings as the Rangers clinched the series. 
Hellickson, who went 4-0 in 10 for the Rays in 2010, joined Evan Longoria (2008) as Tampa Bay players to win the AL rookie honor. Hellickson finished with 102 points. 
Trumbo drew five first-place votes and 63 points. Eric Hos-mer, who hit .293 with 19 home runs and 78 RBIs after being called up by Kansas City in May, got four first-place votes and 38 points. Ivan Nova, 16-4 with a 
3.70 ERA for the Yankees, got one first-place vote and was fourth with 30. Seattle second baseman Dustin Ackley drew the other first-place vote. 


Wednesday, November 16, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
PRESIDENTS CUP 

Woods and Williams set for matchup at Presidents Cup 
Assosciated Press I know it’s good fodder. People filled with laughter. like to talk about it in the me-Norman said he did discuss 
MELBOURNE, Australia — dia. But from our perspective, it with Scott, and with his two The Presidents Cup wasted it’s dead and gone. And we assistant captains. The idea no time delivering the match would like to keep that way go-was to get it over with. everyone was talking about — ing forward.” “If we had to diffuse any-Tiger Woods against ex-caddie The acrimonious split be-thing and just get this thing Steve Williams in the opening came evident when Scott won over and done with, wouldn’t session at Royal Melbourne. the Bridgestone Invitational, you rather have it sooner than 
Oh, yes, and three other and Williams allowed himself later?” Norman said. “Because players will join them. to be interviewed on the 18th I personally wouldn’t have 
U.S. captain Fred Couples green at Firestone and called wanted to be sitting down at and International captain Greg it “the best win of my life.” the singles and everybody is Norman, hopeful of putting an This from a caddie who was playing a really tight match end to a three-month soap op-with Woods for 13 of his ma-and it comes down to the last era involving Woods and Wil-jors. group or the second to last liams, put them together in the While getting roasted in group, and all of this pressure last of six foursomes matches Shanghai two weeks ago at a is coming on because it’s the Thursday. caddies party, Williams was first time the two met.” 
“I think it’s great for the asked about the interview “Adam and Tiger are good tournament,” Norman said. “It while accepting his mock “Cel-friends,” Norman said. “It’s needed to be done.” ebration of the Year” award got nothing to do with Adam 
Lest anyone forget, Williams and said, “It was my aim to and Tiger, and at the end of will be carrying the bag of shove it up his black a------.” the day, the atmosphere that Adam Scott, not hitting any Williams later apologized, will exist walking to the first golf shots. Scott said it was enough for tee will be exactly the same if 
On paper it will be Woods him, and even Woods tried to none of this took place in the and Steve Stricker, undefeated close the ordeal by saying they past week.” as a tandem two years ago at shook hands in a gym in Syd-Couples also downplayed Harding Park, against K.J. ney and saying that Williams any hard feelings, trying to Choi and Scott, the popular was not a racist. present this as any other Australian who hired Williams Norman and Couples said match. after Woods fired his caddie of the match wasn’t planned, al-“I think it worked out awe­12 years this summer. though both could have chosen some for everybody involved 
For sheer drama, it’s more to avoid it. to have Adam and Tiger play,” about Woods and Williams. In the Presidents Cup, each Couples said. “As we said all 
It will be the first time they captain takes turn putting his along, they are still very good Bill Haas and Nick Wat-Even so, Royal Melbourne have been in the same group of team in one of the six matches. friends, and I think it’s an ex-ney will face Geoff Ogilvy was buzzing with the prospect any tournament since Woods With each announced match, citing match.” and Masters champion Charl of Woods and Williams on the officially fired him in late July. anticipation kept building un-“It’s not just Adam Scott and Schwartzel in the second same tee, this time on differ-Norman expects nothing but a til it came down to Couples. Tiger Woods,” he said. “There’s match, followed by Dustin ent teams. Norman made it good match between four play-Norman had put K.T. Kim 22 other players here.” Johnson and Matt Kuchar clear, though, what Williams’ ers, with four other guys car-and Y.E. Yang in the fifth Bubba Watson and Webb against a pair of Australians role would be. Williams also rying their bags. match. Couples could have Simpson will lead off for the in Aaron Baddeley and Jason used to work for Norman in 
“I’m sure Freddie and I — ev-inserted Woods and Stricker, Americans against Ernie Els Day. the 1990s. erybody — we want to put this but instead went with Hunter and Ryo Ishikawa. Watson Phil Mickelson, the only “His job is to carry Adam behind us,” Norman said. “It’s Mahan and David Toms. That beat Simpson in a playoff at player to compete in every Scott’s bag,” Norman said. “It a dead issue as far as we’re sealed it. New Orleans, and they recent-Presidents Cup, will play with doesn’t matter whether they concerned. There’s no animos-“Who’s left?” U.S. assistant ly discussed a desire to play Jim Furyk against Retief Goos-are playing Tiger Woods or ity between any of the players. captain Jay Haas as the room with each other. en and Robert Allenby. not.” 
ley Murphy (15 points), restor-
Belles 
ing the home team’s lead to five. The Belles’ defense held strong, continued from page 16 coming up with multiple stops down the final stretch, including a 49-47 lead on sophomore for-a block of the Thunder’s last sec-
ward Maris Hovee’s layup with ond three-point attempt. 
10:30 remaining in the game. “When our defense had to, 
Ronan answered promptly for when our backs were against the the Belles, scoring six straight wall, they stepped up big to win points to put the home team us the game,” Henley said. ahead for good. Saint Mary’s next takes the 
Wheaton cut the lead to 63-court Friday against Manchester 61 on a three pointer with three in the Manchester Tip-Off Tour-minutes left in the second half, nament. but Saint Mary’s answered with a free throw from Ronan and a Contact Nick Boyle at             layup from senior forward Kel-nboyle1@nd.edu 
In her sophomore season, Bar-
Seniors 
ton earned top-10 finishes at the Big East championships in the continued from page 16 400-yard IM and 100-yard fly. 
Last season, Barton raced to a throughout the season and made team-best time of 4:27.54 in the numerous contributions to the 400-yard IM in the finals of the relay squads. She earned all-Big Big East championships. East honors with the 200-yard Meanwhile, breaststroke and and 400-yard free relay squads, IM swimmer Blythe nearly set as the relay teams placed sec-a school record in her freshman ond and third, respectively, at season in the 100-yard breast-the conference meet. stroke with a time of 1:03.90. 
Meanwhile, in the 2010-11 In her sophomore campaign, season, she earned the squad’s Blythe competed in 14 breast-top time of 23:03 in the 50-yard stroke events during the season freestyle in the finals of the Big and earned top-10 finishes in East championships. the 100 and 200-yard breast-
Breaststroke and IM swimmer stroke at the Big East champion-Barton earned the program’s ships. Beeler-Hipp award during her The Irish seniors will look to freshman season, awarded an-provide additional leadership as nually to the team’s most out-the team prepares for the Ohio standing freshman. She also State Invitational, held from advanced to the finals at the Big Dec. 2 to 4. East championships in the 200 and 400-yard IM, along with the Contact Matt Unger at 200-yard fly. munger3@nd.edu 



page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, November 16, 2011 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
wing Peter Schneider followed up the rebound from freshman defenseman Robbie Russo’s slap shot. Schneider’s backhand hit the post and the horn sounded. The goal was reviewed and the call was upheld. 
No. 4 Notre Dame (8-2-2, 6-1­2-0 CCHA) came close again when sophomore right wing Mike Voran received a pass at the top of the left face-off circle, evaded a Bronco defender and beat freshman goaltender Frank Slubowski over his left shoulder. The puck, however, hit the post and the Irish were denied again. 
“Western plays a little differ­ent than they did last year,” Jack­son said. “They’re a much more patient team. They wait un­til you make 
To compound things for the No. 10 Broncos, sophomore forward Dennis Brown was called for interference, send­ing the Irish on the power play. The penalty proved costly when Russo fed junior center Riley Sheahan at the top of the left face-off circle for a one-timer that found the back of the net. The goal marked Notre Dame’s 14th power play goal this year. 
Irish sophomore T.J. Tynan also assisted on Sheahan’s score, giving Tynan his 17th assist of the season, a nation-high. 
Sheahan added his second goal of the game — and fourth of the season — when senior defenseman Sean Lorenz sent a shot on goal from the point. The shot was deflected in front of the net and trickled through before Sheahan banged home the rebound from within feet of the 


a mistake and “I still say we’re a goal. then they capi-work in progress. I still “Tha t’s talize.” believe we have more.” something At the 9:30 I was try-mark in the ing to focus 
Jeff Jackson 
second period, on more this 
Irish coach 
the Irish made that mistake. Western Mich­igan senior forward Ian Slater beat Irish junior goaltender Mike Johnson with an open wrist shot from the center of the offensive zone. 
“It was a tough game for a goalie,” Jackson said. “Not a lot of work, but when he had to make a save, he made a save. I thought he did fine.” 
Johnson made 23 saves on the night, while Slubowski stopped 18 of Notre Dame’s 21 shots on goal. 
Less than 30 seconds after Western Michigan’s goal, sopho­more defenseman Shayne Taker led an odd-man break for the Irish, holding the puck before beating Slubowski with a close-range wrist shot. The goal was Taker’s first of the season. 
“We were all surprised [Tak­er] didn’t have a point,” Jackson said. “He’s got better puck skills and poise than a lot of guys. It just worked out that he found his way to the net and scored a big goal for us.” 
Taker said the goal was a re­sult of working with associate head coach Paul Pooley on his stick-handling. 
“I told the boys never to count on me doing that again,” Taker said. 
year, shoot more and get some more 
offe nsive chances, so tonight was a good night for that,” Sheahan said. 
Western Michigan (6-4­3, 4-4-1-1) responded with a goal from sophomore forward Shane Berschbach at 13:23 in the third period. The Broncos won the face-off, and senior forward Kyle O’Kane centered the puck to Berschbach, cutting the Irish lead to one. 
Despite pulling the goalie with one minute remaining, the Broncos could not muster a tying goal as the Irish sur­vived a couple late flurries from Western Michigan to col­lect their sixth win in the past eight games. 
“I still say we’re a work in progress,” Jackson said. “I still believe we have more. We need to find more secondary scoring and we still need to shore up certain parts of our game. I’m really happy with where we are right now, but there’s still a lot of work to be done.” 
The Irish look to continue their winning ways against No. 3 Boston College on Friday at the Compton Family Ice Arena. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
Kelly 
continued from page 13 
for the Irish (7-3) than junior linebacker Luke Kuechly. The 2011 preseason All-Ameri­can recorded a game-high 18 tackles in the Eagles’ 14-10 victory over North Carolina State on Saturday. 
“We have to he is,” Kelly said. “We have to iden­tify him be­cause he’s a savvy player. And it’s like when you have that great defen­sive lineman … Some­times you don’t block him and you option him. 
“But there’s no denying his 
know where 
ability to play the game and get to the football, so we’ll have to be prepared.” 
Kuechly’s natural talent and leadership role on the Eagles’ defense has drawn compari­sons to a player who has taken on a similar role for the Irish at the inside linebacker posi­tion: junior Manti Te’o. 
“They’re similar. I think when you talk about the really good inside linebackers — it’s inter­esting,” Kelly said. “It’s great tackling. The leader on their de­fense — I think Manti and Luke carry a lot of those [qualities]. I think physically Manti is a little bit bigger, but maybe Luke you could say is maybe a bit more agile. I don’t know. I would 

“I don’t know that the emotion is really an issue. It’s when you become emotional, you know? I think emotions are fine because it’s your last home game, and you should feel those things naturally.” 
Brian Kelly Irish coach 
think maybe Manti would question that.” 
While Sat­urday’s con­test marks the final game in Notre Dame Stadium for a core group of seniors and graduate stu­dents, Kelly said the as­sociated emo­tions would be a natural part of the atmo­
sphere, not a distraction. 
“I don’t know that the emotion is really an issue,” he said. “It’s when you become emotional, you know? I think emotions are fine because it’s your last home game, and you should feel those things naturally. I think when you get emotional is where you can run into problems.” 
Although the hopes of a Bowl Championship Series game are all but dashed, Kelly said the Irish remain motivated by a love for the game, a desire to improve and a passion to win. 
“We’re playing the game of football,” he said. These are 18 to 21-year-olds. They love to play, so their focus is on the next day. Their focus is on the opportunity to play at Notre Dame Stadium. Their focus is on not letting their teammates down.” 
While seniors and graduate students take the field for the final time, several underclass­men will play key roles for the Irish on Saturday. Kelly said he believes each player will be just as motivated to win as the next. 
“[The underclassmen] don’t want to let the [seniors and graduate students] down, you know, regardless if it’s their last game or not,” he said. “The underclassmen know they’re coming back, but they don’t want to let their seniors down, so I think that’s just part of the process of developing your team 
— that they rely on each other. So I think our guys will carry that on.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at                    cmasoud@nd.edu 

Brooks 
continued from page 16 
[against Detroit] and there will be games where I won’t play so well,” Brooks said. “But the key is to try to be consistent with your effort. So every time I’m on the court, I do whatever I can to help my team win.” 
Senior guard Scott Martin, Notre Dame’s second leading scorer returning from last sea­son, struggled against Detroit (1-1), scoring just three points in 39 minutes of play. Brey said Martin is an invaluable part of the Irish roster, bringing a num­ber of intangibles to the table. 
“Scott Martin wasn’t scoring, but he was anchoring us defen­sively,” he said. “He’s just such a great position defender, so it’s hard to take him out of the game.” 
Notre Dame and Sam Houston State (1-0) have met only once before, in 1997, when the Irish took home a decisive 88-69 win over the Bearkats. Connaughton said that the most important things for the Irish to remember 

The Irish will tip off against the Bearkats at 7:30 p.m. to­night in the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
moving forward are the posi­tives. 
“We learned that we have a lot of guys that can contribute and that we have a good team,” he said. 

Wednesday, November 16, 2011 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


HENRy ARNOLD
JUMBLE

THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE KELLy LyNCH AND JOE MILLER 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THE LONDON EXPRESS ALEx GRISWOLD AND LEE HAGGENJOS 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Wednesday, November 16, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
FOOTBALL 
Curtain call 
Seniors hope to leave with win over Eagles 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Notre Dame’s contest against Boston College this Saturday marks an opportunity to reach a number of milestones — the eighth win of the season, the fourth win in a row and a re­sume builder as bowl season approaches. But for 38 seniors and graduate students, one goal rides above all: win on Senior Day. 
“Win. You’ll remember this a whole lot better if you win,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “So I want them to prepare, do all the things necessary to put themselves in a good position. There will be some emotion because it’s the last game, and that’s natural.” 
Although Boston College (3-7, 2-5 ACC) has struggled to find consistency on the field this sea­son, the Eagles feature a num­ber of premier players, none more potentially problematic 
see KELLY/page 14 


MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish look to continue streak vs. Sam Houston State 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Senior Sports Writer 
The Irish will continue CBE Classic Play and their quest to keep their 21-game home win streak alive without fifth-year forward Tim Abromaitis when they take on Sam Hous­ton State tonight at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Sophomore guard Eric At­kins has led the way for the Irish (2-0) so far this sea­son, scoring a career-high 27 points against Mississippi Val­ley State on Saturday before recording a team-high 13 in Notre Dame’s win over Detroit on Monday. 
Other young players have also emerged so far this sea­son for the Irish. Freshman guard Pat Connaughton scored 10 points and grabbed eight rebounds in the win over De­troit. 
Irish coach Mike Brey said he was not surprised by Con­naughton’s breakout perfor­mance. 
“You saw what [Connaugh­ton] does on the backboard,” Brey said. “He’s fearless. He’s been practicing that way. He’s been on our mind and in our rotation. He has some special qualities.” 
Brey also said he was pleased with the performance of sophomore guard Jerian Grant, who has played just two regular season games in an Irish uniform after sitting out his entire freshman year. 
Grant has scored in double figures in both games this season for Notre Dame. 
Junior guard Joey Brooks has also emerged in his first season as a starter. After averaging just 1.6 points and 1.1 rebounds per game last season, he has scored 22 points and recorded 13 rebounds in two games for Notre Dame. 
There will be games like 
see BROOKS/page 14 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles open season with clutch win 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s started its season with a bang Tuesday night, tak­ing out No. 25-ranked Wheaton in a tightly contested 66-63 vic­tory. 
“I don’t think you could ask for a better start,” Saint Mary’s coach Jenn Henley said. “I think both teams had a couple of first­game-jitters, but I’m very proud of the way the team played de­fensively, especially at the end of the game in a critical situation.” 
Creating turnovers and grab­bing offensive rebounds proved to be key for the Belles (1-0), who scored 27 points off turnovers while tallying 10 second-chance points. Senior forward Jessica Centa grabbed seven rebounds to go along with 14 points. 
“Rebounding is something we work on a lot in practice,” se­nior forward Jessica Centa said. “There’s a lot of room for im­provement still, but it’s a great way to start the season.” 
Saint Mary’s started the game on a roll, jumping out to an eight point lead on junior guard Kayla Wolter’s fade-away jumper sev­en-and-a-half minutes into the game. Boosted by strong defen­sive play and 10 first half points from Centa, the Belles were able to maintain the lead throughout the half, taking a 34-31 advan­tage into the break. 
The Belles began the second half strong, extending their lead to eight on consecutive jump shots by senior guard Patsy Mahoney (7 points) and senior guard Maggie Ronan (16 points, 9 rebounds), forcing an early Wheaton timeout. 
Led by junior guard Brooke Ol­son (17 points), the Thunder (0-1) gradually fought their way back into the game, eventually taking 
see BELLES/page 13 
HOCKEY 

Sheahan scores two to beat WMU 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
The foghorn at the Compton Family Ice Arena went off once during the first period. The only problem was that Notre Dame hadn’t scored. The false alarm was simply a sign of things to come for the Irish in Notre Dame’s 3-2 win over Western Michigan on Tuesday night. 
“I was pretty happy with our game tonight,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “It’s a tough Tues­day night game. I give our guys credit because I thought they played a pretty focused game.” 
The Irish almost got on the board when freshman right 
see IRISH/page 14 

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Trio of seniors leads inexperienced squad 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
Featuring a roster where 10 of the 23 swimmers and divers are freshmen, the Irish carry more than their share of talent­ed youth. At the same time, the Irish carry the consequence of inexperience as the roster only sports three seniors. 
However, this abundance of youth makes the leadership roles of seniors Amy Presti­nario, Emily Barton and Gwen Blythe even more important. 
Prestinario, who competes in freestyle and individual medley (IM) races, has made her great­est impact on various relay teams, leading the Irish (3-3) to numerous all-Big East honors. 
During her freshman sea­son, she helped the 800-yard free relay team finish first at the Big East conference meet and set a school record time of 
7:13.51. She was also a member of a 400-yard free relay squad that placed third with a time of 3:19.38 at last year’s confer­ence meet. 
As a sophomore, Prestinario swam in 12 individual events 
see SENIORS/page 13 





