
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Garcia’s recovery exceeds expectations 
Senior undergoes multiple surgeries, heals rapidly following fall from third-floor apartment window 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor
 Nearly two weeks after his accident, the Notre Dame se­nior who fell from his third-floor apartment window said he is making “stellar” prog­ress at Memorial Hospital. 
Marcus Garcia, 21, fell about 25 feet from his apart­ment window in the Foundry Lofts & Apartments at Eddy Street Commons on Aug. 25 at around 4:30 a.m. An employee at a local bar saw him fall as she was leaving work for the evening and called 911. 
In an email interview, Gar­cia said he was grateful for the response from friends and family who reached out to him after the fall. 


New chair endowed in Byzantine theology 
Observer Staff Report 
As part of University efforts to expand its renowned Medi­eval Institute, Notre Dame es­tablished an endowed chair in Byzantine Theology this fall, according to a Friday press re­lease. 
The position will focus on the theology of the Medieval Greek speaking Church and is named in honor of Archbishop Deme­

see CHAIR/page 3 
“As I get ready to begin my rehabilitation, I want to ex­tend my deepest heartfelt and emotional thanks to every sin­gle one of you — my family, my friends, many who I have yet to meet and the entire Notre Dame family — for lifting me in prayer and support,” he said. 
While he did not remember the details of his accident, Garcia said he worked on homework that Thursday eve­ning before making plans to spend time with friends. 
“I don’t remember any­thing from before or after my fall except for one quick con­versation I had with Fr. Tom Doyle,” Garcia said. “I believe I was either in the ambulance or on the stretcher and he asked me if I wanted him to call my parents. I said some­thing along the lines of ‘That’s okay, I’m going to try and do this one myself.’ Then only a few seconds after the initial shock of my fall subsided, I felt the sharp pain in my leg and thought it would probably be wise to give them a call.” 
Garcia’s parents arrived in South Bend that evening from their home in Turlock, Calif. His mother, Kimberly Garcia, updated his Facebook page during his initial recovery. 
After 12 days in the hospital, Garcia said he has undergone multiple surgeries. 
“I have had orthopedic sur­gery on my right leg … facial 

see GARCIA/page 3 





University approves 28 new student clubs 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 

Twenty-eight new student clubs will join over 300 al­ready-established groups on campus this fall, said David Mattingly, program coordi­nator for the Student Activi­ties Office (SAO). 
“Notre Dame student in­terests are truly diverse, and our thriving club community reflects that,” Mattingly said. 
Junior Amanda Bruening will oversee the launch of Notre Dame’s chapter of the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI-ND). As presi­dent of the chapter, Bruening “Our main objective is to NAMI-ND’s work could have to suicide,” she said. “To say hopes to address the issue of offer support for those stu-been an asset to the student that was painful was an un­mental disorder in the lives of dents who are fighting men-body last year, when suicides derstatement. It would be in-students. NAMI-ND was one tal illness, to raise awareness shocked both the Notre Dame sulting if we did not stand up of the groups recently grant-and to end the stigma that and Saint Mary’s campuses. as a community to say, ‘We ed probationary club status surrounds any discussion of “Last year, in the midst of support you.’” by SAO and the Club Coordi-these issues,” she said. our work to make NAMI-ND a nation Council (CCC). Bruening said she believed reality, we lost two students see CLUBS/page 3 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 




NDtv offers student-produced programming 
By JOHN CAMERON nights about twice a month, I believe, and ‘Office Hours’ is 
News Writer said senior Brenna Williams, in its eighth.” executive director for the chan-Other NDtv regulars include 
Just a few channels away nel. “Dining In,” a cooking show from CNN, Fox News and Disney “We have eight shows being hosted by Saint Mary’s seniors sits channel 53 — NDtv — the produced this semester,” Wil-Samantha Tulisiak and Bridget only student-run broadcasting liams said. “We’ve probably Meade, and produced by fellow station serving Notre Dame and had about 20 produced in our Saint Mary’s senior Stephanie Saint Mary’s. history. Our longest running Cherpak. 
The station broadcasts 24/7 shows are ‘Late Night ND,’ our Cherpak said the show caters 
and runs almost exclusively sketch comedy show, and ‘Of-to students cooking on a bud­
student-produced material, fice Hours,’ our interview show. 

LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic with the exception of movie ‘Late Night’ is in its 14th season, see NDTV/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER College offers peer mentor program page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u D. Montayne feature page 9 u Men’s Soccer feature: Ryan Finley page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Tuesday, September 6, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU WANT TO CHANGE ABOUT THE WORLD? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports John Cameron Kelsey Manning Marisa Iati Matt DeFranks Emma Russ Joseph Monardo Graphics Scene Lauren Kalinoski Marissa Frobes Photo Viewpoint Thomas La Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 72 LOW 55 


Esteban Manteca  Ava Lee  Willem Klein  Mairaj Uddin  Cara Polk  Joey White  
graduate student  junior  senior  senior  graduate student  sophomore  
off campus  Badin  off campus  off campus  off campus  Carroll  
“Racism.”  “The irregular  “The rise in oil  “Unity of  “Cell phones  “Healthcare in  
temperature in  prices.”  thought without  — people can  Third World  
South Bend.”  preconceived  always find you!”  countries.”  
prejudice  
between people  
and ideas.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Cuban dog and piglets have identity crisis 
CAMAGUEY, Cuba — Yeti the dog already had a litter of pups to care for when the piglets adopted her as a sec­ond mom. 
Ever since then, the Cu­ban farm dog has been pull­ing double-duty, nursing not just her own young but also the 14 swine. 
Farmer Mannorkys San­tamaria said the piglets also take milk from their moth­ers, but when they see Yeti, they run to her for a meal. On a recent day the young porkers followed her around the farm as if she were their real mother. 
“No one imposed this on the dog,” Santamaria said. “The piglets discovered this on their own and began nursing with her when they turned 15 days old.” 
“When the piglets ven­tured outside their pen, it seems they smelled the dog’s milk and began scream­ing at her,” Fernandes said. “In the beginning we didn’t think the dog would let them suckle, but they insisted so much they ended up nursing with her.” 
Polar bear joins Norweigan boat crew 
OSLO, Norway — A Nor­wegian boat crew recently had an unexpected wake­up call when a full-grown polar bear climbed aboard their anchored ship for a 30-minute-long sniff around the deck. 
Captain Einar Vallestad said Saturday that the bear had been following the Hy­drograf vessel in northern Norway for days before fi­nally venturing onboard. Vallestad says “it did no harm. He was just putting his head into our rubbish container.” 
A night guard woke up crew members to warn them about the furry visitor. 
The crew safely watched from the steering cabin as the bear curiously wan­dered around the vessel be­fore climbing back into the icy waters. 
No one was harmed dur­ing last Saturday’s incident. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Georges Enderle, chair in International Business Eth­ics, will host a lecture en­titled “Defining Goodness in Business and Econom­ics” from 12:30 to 2 p.m. today. It will take place in room C103 in the Hesburgh Center. 
There will be a Catholic Charismatic Prayer Meet­ing tonight in Alumni Hall Chapel from 7:30 to 8:30 
p.m. Meetings will take place every Tuesday night. 
Tonight from 8 to 9:30 
p.m. Father Ian Ker will host the first lecture in this year’s Catholic Culture Lit­erature Series, “Victorian Catholic Writers: Penning the Grandeur of God.” He will speak on John Henry Cardinal Newman. The lec­ture will take place in De-Bartolo Hall room 141. 
A mandatory workshop for residence hall and Ba­silica lectors will take place tonight at 8:30 p.m in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. There will be anoth­er workshop Sunday at 8:30 
p.m  in the Basilica. Lectors are required to attend one meeting. 
Extraordinary Ministers of Holy Communion are re­quired to attend a training session at 10 p.m. tonight in the Basilica of the Sa­cred Heart. There will be another training session on Sunday at 3 p.m. Ministers are required to attend one meeting. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 








HIGH 75 LOW 57 
HIGH 77 LOW 57 
HIGH 75 LOW 59 
HIGH 77 LOW 56 

Tuesday, September 6, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 




SMC program pairs first year students with senior mentors 
By MADELINE MILES 
News Writer 
In the fall of 2009, Saint Mary’s College began Cross Currents, a program intended to help first year students adjust to college life with the assistance of a se­nior mentor. 
Two years after the program’s inception, both seniors and first year students are still feeling its positive impact. 
Mentors meet with their first year groups to discuss academ­ics, major decisions and campus life. 
First year student Carmen Brooks said the program’s meet­ings have given her an opportu­nity to learn about upperclass­men’s academic experiences while meeting new students. 
“I found the mentoring group helpful because my mentor had a lot of good advice about the classes I was taking,” Brooks said. “It’s also helpful to talk to the other freshmen because we can all give each other advice and we were able to meet new people right away.” 
First year Abby Roggemann said the program’s meetings al­lowed her to share both the chal­lenges and positive experiences of the college adjustment period with her peers. 
“I like meeting because we get to talk about problems we have or what we’re doing in school and around campus,” Roggemann said. 
Cross Currents was built as a collaboration of the College’s Ac-

Chair 
continued from page 1 
trios Trakatellis, primate of the Greek Orthodox Church of America. 
The new professorship will include teaching and research on the Eastern Roman Empire, the release stated. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins said the professor se­lected to fill the position will continue to develop the Medi­eval Institute and its strengths. 
“The new chair in Byzan­tine Theology will complement the mission of our Medieval Institute and, more broadly, the University’s acknowledged strengths in patristic and western medieval theology,” Jenkins said. “We are pleased to honor Archbishop Demetrios with the naming of this chair, as we are extremely thankful for his integral role in strength­ening relations between Ro­man Catholics and Orthodox Christians around the world.” 
The chair holder will be a member of both the Depart­ment of Theology and the Me­dieval Institute, the release stated. The Department of The­ology includes more than 50 full-time faculty members. 
Demetrios said he was “hum­bled and deeply grateful” to be the chair’s namesake. 
“The University’s decision [to put the chair in my name] con­stitutes a great honor for me,” Demetrios said. “I pray that this gracious gesture by your prominent university will serve as another meaningful step in promoting understanding, re­spect and enrichment, thereby enabling our churches to more fully respond to God’s call for Christian unity.” 
The creation of the chair contributes to the goals of the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) Challenge Grant issued to Notre Dame in 2007, according to the re­lease. The NEH grant totaled $800,000, and was contingent upon the University raising additional funds to develop its Byzantine studies program. 
Grants from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, each $800,000, brought Notre Dame closer to its $3.2 million goal. The funds will contribute to library collections, graduate fellowships, professorships and educational programs. 


Garcia 
continued from page 1 
and tracheotomy surgeries,” Garcia said. “All have been successful, according to each of the doctors.” 
Garcia’s doctors told him he is recovering faster than ex­pected, he said. 
“I am currently ahead of schedule, and, as my trauma doctor said, I am making stel­ademic, Mission and Student Af­fairs divisions, according to the program’s July 2009 press re­lease. The program expands the opportunities available to each student during her four years at the College and provides a more robust approach to advising. 
Seniors are chosen by faculty advisers to become Cross Cur­rents mentors for first year stu­dents in their respective depart­ment. 
Senior Ximena Velez was nom­inated by her biology professor to 


lar progress,” Garcia said. “My recovery now consists of walking each day to rehabili­tate my leg [and continuing] to strengthen my breathing.” 
Garcia said his tracheos­tomy tube will be removed shortly. When his facial inju­ries heal, doctors will also be able to remove the wires in his jaw. 
“My biggest challenge right now, believe it or not, is get­ting in the 2400 liquid calories and 120 grams of liquid pro­tein needed every day,” Garcia participate in the program as a mentor. Velez said she agreed to join because she remembers the challenges she faced starting her first year and wanted to help oth­ers through the process.
 “It has made me realize how much impact we, as upperclass­men, can have on first year stu­dents,” said Velez. “It’s rewarding to be able to help someone who is as lost as I was at one point.” 
Contact Madeline Miles at mmiles01@saintmarys.edu 
said. “I didn’t eat 2400 calo­ries a day before the accident.” 
Garcia said he could official­ly begin receiving visitors this past Sunday. 
“Seeing friends has been the highlight of my recovery process so far,” Garcia said. “Please continue to keep me in your prayers as my recovery process will be lengthy and painful, but all things are pos­sible through Christ our Lord.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 



Clubs 
continued from page 1 
NAMI-ND held its first event Thursday at Reckers, when alumna and author Julie Hersh spoke about her battle with depression. Bruening plans to create a depression sup­port group, host movie nights and initiate a commu­ese Student Association, Club Tennis and the Undergradu­ate Philosophy Club, Mattingly said. 
Students may suggest a new club during proposal periods each semester, according to the SAO website. To propose a club, students must com­plete a packet containing a proposal form, a Constitution, an officer registration form, a tentative schedule of events, a tentative budget and approval from any relevant campus de­partments. They then must schedule a proposal submis­sion meeting. 
Students whose clubs are approved by SAO and CCC must also attend a new club orientation program within the first two full months of the academic calendar after the club was recognized. 
While some of the new clubs have very specific mission statements and intended stu­dent demographics, Mattingly said the multitude of campus clubs caters to nearly every student interest and helps en­hance students’ college expe­riences. 
“They bring new events, op­portunities and communities to Notre Dame to enrich cam­pus life,” he said. 

Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
projects and create respon­sible leaders, senior and club co-president Mike Oliver said. 
“Over the next year, we’ll adopt a [domestic or foreign] community and serve them to sustainably meet their ba­sic human needs,” Oliver said. “Meanwhile, our members will gain enriched global per­spectives through the innova­tive educational opportuni­
ties.” 
Oliver said 
nity walk the club’s fore­
“At a university so 
to unite most goal is to 
integrated with the ideas 
people bat-make life bet­tling mental of faith and service, ter for those in illness and Engineers Without need. honor lives Borders provides the “At a uni-lost. perfect opportunity versity so in-
Bruening for all students, not tegrated with also wants the ideas of 
just engineers, to use 
to bring faith and ser­
their education and 
Frank War-vice, Engineers 
knowledge to make a 
ren to cam-Without Bor­
difference in the world.” 
pus next ders provides year. War-the perfect op­ren is the Mike Oliver portunity for creator of co-president all students, PostSecret. not just engi-
Engineers Without Borders 
com, a web-neers, to use site where their education individuals and knowledge anonymously share secrets, to make a difference in the many of which are related to world,” he said. “We have big suicide and mental illness. hopes for our student chapter, 
Engineers Without Borders: and we believe that many stu-Notre Dame, another newly dents will really excel in it.” approved club, aims to imple-Among the other new stu­ment sustainable engineering dent groups are the Taiwan­

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com  The Observer u NEWS  Tuesday, September 6, 2011  
NDtv  cluding “The Writer’s Room,” a 30-minute sitcom produced by  exporting the programming for broadcast.  from all majors, not just those majoring in Film, Television  “In an ideal world, I would find a job doing film production  
senior Pat Toland. Toland said  While the process is exten­ and Theater (FTT.)  for a religious organization,”  
continued from page 1  the plot was not far from reality  sive, Williams said students  “I think that’s another mis- she said. “I really enjoy the pro- 
but the style draws from popu­ looking to participate are not  conception people have about  duction end of the communica­ 
get.  lar sitcoms.  obligated to make a major time  NDtv, that it’s only for FTT  tion industry and would love  
“[The show] focuses on pre­ “[The show is] about a group  commitment, and participation  majors. That’s not true at all.  to be able to pair that with the  
senting  inexpensive,  quick  of friends trying to put togeth­ fluctuates throughout the year.  More of our staff are non-FTT  knowledge I have gained in my  
and easy recipes to students,”  er a sketch show for NDtv,”  “The number of students par- than are FTT,” she said. “It’s an  religious studies courses.”  
she said. “In the past we have  he said. “Season one was all  ticipating  varies  constantly,”  opportunity to learn in a low- Toland, a marketing and tele­ 
themed  our  seasons  with  about  getting  she  said.  pressure,  high-fun  environ- vision double major, also hopes  
themes  such  as  …  ‘Common  our  fictional  “I  think  ment everything they want to  to work in television profession- 
Dorm Foods,’ with recipes based off coffee, peanut butter, Ramen noodles, pretzels and beer.” Cherpak also produces “NDtv Abroad: Italy,” the newest in­stallment in the channel’s re­curring abroad series. The series has previously followed the experiences of Saint Mary’s  show picked up by the net­work, and this season will be about how we handle the pressures of actually mak­ing a TV show. My friends  “It’s an opportunity to learn in a low-pressure, high-fun environment everything they want to know about camera operation, editing, live broadcasts and everything else that goes into getting a show on the air.”  there’s this misconcep­tion about NDtv, that you have to start at the b eg i n n i ng of the year and you are locked in  know about camera operation, editing, live broadcasts and ev­erything else that goes into get­ting a show on the air.” While the channel consists of programming put on by stu­dents from a variety of majors, Williams said it’s especially helpful for FTT majors looking to apply what they are learn- ally. “I’m definitely looking to be involved in television in some capacity,” he said. “Ideally I would like to work in schedul­ing or creative development at a broadcast or cable network.” Williams, who joined NDtv at the beginning of her freshman year, praises the station for de­ 
students while studying at the  have described  no  matter  ing in a less academic environ­ veloping her interest in broad­ 
College’s abroad programs in Ireland and London. “Episodes include a tour of Rome, a weekend retreat in As­ ‘The Writer’s Room’ as a mix between ‘Seinfeld’ and  Brenna Williams executive director NDtv  what. While we wel­come and encou rage  ment. “For FTT majors, it’s a great place to supplement what they’re learning in the class- casting. “As a freshman … NDtv just seemed like a great place to test the waters to see if broadcast­ 
sisi, day trips to Ostia Antica  ‘Curb Your En- people  to  room and to get really creative  ing was something I was really  
and Tivoli, various events in  thusiasm,’ and  be  involved  without having to worry about  interested in,” she said. “Turns  
Vatican City and much more,”  I’d throw in a little   ‘30 Rock’  all year, NDtv is as much or as  getting a grade on their work,”  out, it was. It’s all about learn- 
Cherpak said. “The show was  influence as well.”  little time as you can handle.”  she said.  ing and feeling things out at  
filmed during the Spring 2010  Students looking to air their  Williams said the station of- Cherpak, a double major in  your own pace. You can really  
Semester but will air on NDtv  own content must apply for ap­ fers an opportunity for any stu­ mass communication and reli­ find passion for something you  
this fall.”  proval  from  Williams  before  dents interested in broadcast­ gious studies with a minor in  never would have tried before.”  
In addition to unscripted pro- proceeding with script writing,  ing to learn about the process  film studies, hopes to apply her  
gramming, NDtv broadcasts a  filming at NDtv’s studio space  in a fun casual setting. She said  education to a career in spe- Contact John Cameron at  
number of scripted shows, in- in Washington Hall, editing and  the channel welcomes students  cialized film production.  jcamero2@nd.edu  




NASA to send probes to measure moon’s gravity 
Associated Press Three spacecraft currently measurement that has to be between the two — as well as the end of the shuttle program 
are orbiting the moon and mak-made,” Zuber said. a digital video camera system, in July. A probe named Juno is 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.— ing science observations. A A tenth of a micron is about MoonKAM, intended for use by headed for Jupiter following an Four decades after landing men plan to return astronauts to the half the size of a red blood cell. middle school students world-Aug. 5 liftoff. on the moon, NASA is returning moon was nixed in favor of an By the time their science mis-wide. Sally Ride, the first Amer-NASA officials will be thrilled to Earth’s orbiting companion, asteroid and Mars. sion ends in late spring, Grail-ican woman in space, and her if Grail generates even a portion this time with a set of robotic Despite all the exploration, A and Grail-B will be within 10 science education company in of the immense interest ignited twins that will measure lunar scientists still don’t know ev-miles of the lunar surface. Bar-San Diego is leading the photo-by the Juno launch. A large gravity while chasing one an-erything about the moon, Zuber ring a change in plans, they will gathering effort. It’s billed as crowd is expected at Cape Ca-other in circles. noted. For example, its forma-crash into the moon. “eyes on the moon for Earth’s naveral for Thursday’s morning 
By creating the most precise tion still generates questions Each spacecraft holds one students.” liftoff, which features a pair of lunar gravity map ever, scien-— Grail’s findings should help science instrument— for send-This is NASA’s second robotic split-second launch windows a tists hope to figure out what’s explain its origin — and its far ing and receiving radio signals mission to be launched since half-hour apart. beneath the lunar surface, all side is still mysterious. the way to the core. The orbit-“You would think having sent ing probes also will help pin-many missions to the moon point the best landing sites for we would understand the dif­future explorers, whether hu-ference between the near side man or mechanical. and the far side, but in fact we 
Near-identical twins Grail-A don’t,” she said. and Grail-B — short for Grav-Recent research suggests ity Recovery and Interior Lab-Earth may have had a second oratory — are due to blast off smaller moon that collided with Thursday aboard an unmanned our present moon, producing a rocket. mountainous region. The Grail 
Although launched together, mission may help flush out that the two washing machine-size theory, Zuber said. spacecraft will separate an Grail-A will arrive at the hour into the flight and travel moon on New Year’s Eve, fol-independently to the moon. lowed by Grail-B on New Year’s 
It will be a long, roundabout Day. They will go into orbit trip — three to four months — around the lunar poles and because of the small Delta II eventually wind up circling just rocket used to boost the space-34 miles above the surface. craft. NASA’s Apollo astronauts For nearly three months, used the mighty Saturn V rock-the spacecraft will chase one et, which covered the approxi-another around the moon, mately 240,000 miles to the meticulously flying in forma­moon in a mere three days. tion. The distance between the 
NASA’s Grail twins will travel two probes will range from more than 2 million miles to get 40 miles to 140 miles. Radio to the moon under this slower signals bouncing between the but more economical plan. twins will provide their exact 
The mission, from start to fin-locations, even on the far side ish, costs $496 million. of the moon. 
The moon’s appeal is univer-Scientists will be able to sal. measure even the slightest 
“Nearly every human who’s variations in the gap between every lived has looked up at orbiting Grail-A and Grail-B the moon and admired it,” — every single second. These said Massachusetts Institute of subtle changes will indicate Technology planetary scientist shifting masses below or at Maria Zuber, Grail’s principal the lunar surface: mountains investigator. “The moon has in some places, enormous lava played a really central role in tubes and craters in others. the human imagination and the The moon actually has the human psyche.” most uneven gravitational field 
Since the Space Age began in the solar system, according in 1957, 109 missions have tar-to NASA. The moon’s gravity is geted the moon, 12 men have about one-sixth Earth’s pull. walked its surface during six “We measure the velocity landings, and 842 pounds of change between the two space-rock and soil have been brought craft to a couple of fractions back to Earth and are still be-of a tenth of a micron per sec­ing analyzed. ond. It is an extremely accurate 


Tuesday, September 6, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 

Economic climate complicates Obama’s re-election 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama faces a long re­election campaign having all but given up on the economy rebounding in any meaningful way before November 2012. His own budget office predicts un­employment will stay at about 9 percent, a frightening number for any president seeking a sec­ond term. 
Obama’s prospects aren’t en­tirely grim, however. The GOP, heavily influenced by the tea party, may nominate someone so deeply flawed or right-leaning that, Democrats hope, Obama can persuade Americans to give him a second chance rather than risk the alternative. 
Democrats say the man who ran on hope and change in 2008 will have to claw his way toward a second term with a sharply negative campaign. 
The strengths and weakness­es of his prospects seem clear. 
Next year’s unemployment rate is likely to be the highest in a presidential election since 1940. But the leading Republi­can contenders have denigrated Social Security, switched posi­tions on critical issues and done other things that might make them ripe targets for Obama’s well-funded campaign. 
Democratic strategist Doug Hattaway says GOP candidates, including Texas Gov. Rick Perry and former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, may turn off in­dependent voters with their embrace of tea party stands on taxes, spending and program cuts. 
Obama “should lump them all together and make them an­swer for their slash-and-burn politics,” said Hattaway, a for­mer top aide to Hillary Rodham Clinton, Obama’s rival for the 2008 Democratic presidential nomination. 
To do so, Hattaway said, Obama must link the candidates to congressional Republicans, blamed by Democrats for the nation’s stalled job growth and recent downgrade of U.S. cred­itworthiness. 
Making the connection might not prove easy. criticisms at the president while 

Obama’s potential challengers offering few specific, measur­have avoided getting dragged able alternatives. into details of the bitter Capitol “President Obama oversaw an Hill fights over deficit spending. economy that created zero jobs At least for now, they can lob last month, and that is unac-ceptable,” Romney said Friday. 



But the influence of the tea party and other conservative groups may give Obama some openings, by pushing the GOP field so far to the right that the candidates risk alienating vital independent voters. 
In a debate last month, the top contenders pledged to oppose a deficit-reduction plan even if it cut $10 in spending for every $1 raised by new taxes. Perry, who entered the race after that debate, also has taken a tough stand against higher taxes. 
Obama’s team says indepen­dents, who might pay scant at­tention to ideologically driven primaries, will find such posi­tions extreme when they com­pare the eventual GOP nominee and the president. 
Political aide David Axelrod hinted that Obama will try to sharpen his differences with Republicans who insist on spending cuts in virtually every area and who refuse to let tax cuts expire, as scheduled, for the wealthiest. 
It’s hard “to create an econ­omy in which people can get decent jobs and raise a fam­ily at the same time we’re cut­ting back on our commitment to spending on education and research and development that will create innovation and jobs,” Axelrod said in an interview. 
The Republicans’ “essential message is, let’s go back to the policies that helped get us in this mess,” he said, citing Wall Street deregulation and corpo­rate tax breaks. 
If GOP lawmakers, backed by the presidential hopefuls, con­tinue to thwart Obama’s bid to mix targeted spending cuts with tax increases, Axelrod said, “we’re going to take our case to the American people.” 
Recent polls underscore Obama’s challenge. A Pew Re­search poll found that 39 per­cent of independents approve of his job performance, while 52 percent disapprove. 
An AP-GfK poll showed a sharp erosion of support for Obama among white voters and women. Less than half of all women and less than half of all men approve of the job he’s do­ing, and only 50 percent of wom­en say he deserves re-election. 
But the same polls show that far more voters blame former President George W. Bush more than Obama for the nation’s economic woes. Whether that sentiment lingers for 16 more months could prove crucial. 
Hattaway said Obama must start by winning back moder­ates and motivating “millen­nials,” voters in their 20s and early 30s. 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, September 6, 2011 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Same name 
“Hi, I’d like to make a reservation for 
six.” “Okay, what’s the name?” “Cox, C-O-X.” “And what’s the first name?” 
“Courtney” 
“Like the ac­tress?!” 
Yes, like the actress. I do indeed have the same name as one of the actors made famous by the 90s sitcom that followed around six 



friends who sit in a coffee shop and occasionally hold down glamorous jobs. 

I was born in 1991, and at that point she would have only been recognized for her cameo as the cutoff-wearing super fan pulled onstage in Bruce Springsteen’s “Danc­ing in the Dark” music video. 
I can promise you that my parents were not big enough fans of The Boss to name me after some random chick in his video. 
They simply liked the name Court­ney. How could they have possibly known at that time that they were defining every first interaction I have with a person? 
Some people laugh, some people ask “Really?” but most people ask, “Like the actress?” Regardless of what my response is, the person usually follows their initial reaction with, “I’m sure you get that all the time.” 
The truth is I do get that reaction all the time, but it doesn’t bother me one bit. It’s pretty funny and honestly it makes me a little bit more memorable, which is pretty awesome. 
There is, however, one part of hav­ing the same name as a celebrity that bothers me. 
Whenever someone talks about Cour­teney Cox-Arquette in my presence they always refer to her as “The real Courteney Cox.” 
This is constantly confusing to me because honestly if somebody is actu­ally having a conversation with me, should I not be considered infinitely more real than the person they have never met and have only seen through a television screen? It’s rather insult­ing to suggest that I’m some second-rate version of the real deal. 
Aside from that minor inconvenience, it’s quite a sweet deal to have a recog­nizable name. 
When I was in third grade, my friend won an autographed picture of Cour­teney Cox and instead of keeping it for herself she gave it to me. I still have it today because it was just such a nice thing for an eight-year-old to do. 
Due to a clerical error, I once re­ceived a check for a small amount of money that was intended for the actress. I sent it back and wrote her a letter about having the same name, but I have never received a response. 
My name even spared me from having to put a picture of myself on a board in my dorm. Rather I sent in a black and white picture of the Courte­ney Cox from the 80s. I have dark hair and blue eyes like her, so my rector didn’t realize it wasn’t me until later in the year. 
I have been waiting for the day when my famous name scores me a starring role in a movie, but until then I will just relish the fact that people won’t forget my name. 
Courtney Cox can be reached at      ccox3@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Republican primary 

Tomorrow night, eight of the candi­dates vying for the 2012 Republican presidential nomination will take the stage at the Ronald Reagan Presiden­tial Library in Simi Valley, Calif. in a debate that will seek to determine who among them is best-suited to Ryan Williams take on Presi­dent Barack freethoughts Obama in next year’s election. The event is noteworthy because it is the first debate that will include Texas governor Rick Perry, who recently announced his candidacy for president and has since risen to the top of several national polls. 
Perry is known for his sharp intellect, as evidenced by the academic prowess he displayed while a student at Texas A&M University (he received a C in gym and a D in principles of economics), so this debate should be quite the discourse in substantive policy ideas. Seriously though folks, this debate is important because each day it is looking more and more likely that one of these candidates could become the next President of the United States. 
I say that because each day it becomes more apparent that the re-election cam­paign of President Obama is in serious trouble. With an unemployment rate above nine percent (and likely to stay there for the foreseeable future) and several highly unpopular policy initia­tives including the 2009 stimulus act and the health care reform bill, the President has seen his standing among independent voters deteriorate in almost every key swing state. In addition, Presi­dent Obama’s failure to wind down the nation’s involvement in the Afghan and Iraq wars, as well as his perceived in­ability to stand firm in the face of de­termined Republican opposition, has left his liberal base highly disillusioned, suggesting that it may be difficult for the President to motivate voters to turn out in the same record levels that propelled him to victory in 2008. 
The combined effect of these two fac­tors can be seen in the President’s stand­ing in the Gallup Daily Poll, which tracks the percentage of Americans who ap­prove or disapprove of the job President Obama is doing in office. Last week the 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
President hit an all-time low of just 38 percent approval, against 55 percent who disapprove. In the past 50 years, no president has been reelected with ap­proval numbers that low this late into his first term, so the President is without doubt vulnerable. The question then be­comes, can Republicans produce a can­didate who can take advantage of that weakness and win? And therein lies the problem. 
The current field of Republican can­didates is composed of a mixture of individuals who are either not serious about running for President or are not capable of holding the office. The three candidates who are performing the best in most polls of the race, Michele Bachmann, Rick Perry and Mitt Rom­ney, each have glaring weaknesses that will certainly be exploited by the Obama campaign team and which make them largely unpalatable to moderate and in­dependent voters. 
Michele Bachmann is an ultra-conser­vative religious fanatic whose husband once ran a vile and repulsive clinic de­signed to “cure” gay men and women of their homosexuality. In addition, Con­gresswoman Bachmann actually advo­cated back in July that the United States default on its debt, refusing to raise the debt ceiling under any circumstance even though it was generally acknowl­edged that such a move would have plunged the entire global economy into a catastrophic depression. She also often talks about how she would like to see the minimum wage eliminated so that the U.S. can compete with countries like Vietnam for low wage jobs. 
Rick Perry is much the same: a far-right wing governor who holds public prayer rallies (to do what, I’m not exactly sure) and who once allowed an innocent man to be executed for a crime he almost certainly didn’t commit. When asked about this event during a focus group session, one Texas citizen replied, “I like that. It takes balls to execute an innocent man.” This merely highlights another of Perry’s incredible failures — the Texas education system, which ranks at the bottom of the country in just about ev­ery subject and whose budget Perry has proposed cutting drastically. One has to wonder how a man who only a year ago openly advocated Texas’ seceding from the United States can suddenly become so enamored with that same country that he now wants to be its leader. Oh yeah, and Rick Perry doesn’t believe in evolution. Now I really feel good about him. 
Then there’s Mitt Romney, who lacks the courage to stand up for what he truly believes and thus is forced to con­stantly beat back charges that he has flip-flopped on numerous issues in or­der to make himself more acceptable to the conservative Republican base. Rom­ney used to be a reasonable guy (back when he ran for the U.S. Senate against Ted Kennedy in Massachusetts in 1994), but since then his views on the environ­ment, abortion and gay rights have shift­ed significantly towards those found in Saudi Arabia. Romney rightly touts his successful business career as a unique strength over President Obama, but until he decides to stop blowing with the wind and to fight for what he believes in, he will come across as stiff and uncomfort­able on the campaign trail. 
Despite the weakness of the Repub­lican field, President Obama remains beatable, as evidenced by the fact that even the three candidates mentioned here are polling competitively against him right now. However, once the na­tional media and the Obama campaign team turn their attention towards expos­ing these candidates’ records of failure and extremist rhetoric, expect the all-important independent voters to flee in droves. Few candidates lose when they run against crazy people (though the 2010 midterm elections may have dis­proved that just a bit). Unless a real lead­er like Jon Huntsman starts to gain some traction in the race, one who isn’t afraid to take unpopular positions on issues he truly believes in, or unless Republicans can convince New York Governor An­drew Cuomo to run as one of them, the GOP may be jeopardizing its chances of defeating President Obama in next year’s election. 
Ryan Williams is a junior. He can be reached at twilli15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily that of The Observer. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The secret of being a bore is to tell everything.” 
Voltaire French author & satirist 



WEEKLY POLL 
How long did you stay at the ND vs. USF game? 
Game? What game? My view was great ... from Reckers Came back after every delay Never left the concourse 
Vote by Thursday 

ndsmcobserver.com 


Tuesday, September 6, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 



It’s Tommy Time 
This Saturday was our first game of the 2011 football season, and the end result was pretty frustrating to say the least. A 23-20 loss to the Bulls of USF, and maybe even worse, of the Big East. Why did we lose to a team that Brian Kelly has beaten before? Are we cursed? Michael Galano This is crap! Off with his Guest Columnist head! 
(Let’s all please take a deep, cleansing breath and put the pitchforks away for just a few minutes, OK? Just for the next 700 words that I need you to read...) 
First of all, we knew USF had a good, solid offense. Although they weren’t ranked, this USF team has a lot of poten­tial and some top college football minds have them winning the Big East and play­ing in a BCS game come winter. If anyone watched or read a preview of this game, he knew that BJ could run and that USF has speed. Their offense is good, and it only put up 16 points (one TD). That, and we held them to 2-of-14 on third downs. The takeaway? Our D is solid. 
Now, the offense. Not so pretty a-picture. Was Dayne the wrong choice? Should we have stuck with Tommy’s 4-0 run at the end of 2010? Is Brian Kelly not the savior we all thought he was? Questions, ques­tions, questions!! 
First, I would like to assure all of my friends who were abroad last fall that we are not the same team that we were under Charlie back in the fall of 2009. I promise. If you were here last fall, you would have experienced the magical transition of our football team that went from looking like a sloppy mess of talent to a cohesive, bonded unit that took down Utah, Army, USC and Miami with force. 
So, for those of you who weren’t here, and maybe for those who have forgotten, there was a specific moment to which I can pinpoint last year’s transforma­tion. The opponent was Tulsa. Yes, I can already hear the groans about Kelly’s play calling, but please, bear with me here. I’m sure that your feelings about that game are very similar to those about the USF game this past Saturday. That’s the point. 
If you remember, after going 0-for-2 in his first two pass attempts, Dayne was forced out of the game with a season-ending knee injury. “Darn, we thought the season could have been salvaged, but this is the dagger,” right? Well, let’s see how this freshman Tommy Rees does… 
Boom. 33/54 for 334 yards, four touch­downs, and yes, three interceptions. We lost the game 28-27, but it was already 7-0 when Tommy was brought in. In other words, Tommy: 27, Tulsa: 21. 
Yes, what stuck in the minds of the Notre Dame faithful was Brian Kelly’s choice to force the freshman to throw a Hail Mary interception to lose the game. “Terrible Call! Fire Him! Argggg!” 
But for me, it was different. I had watched about 15 or 16 games at Notre Dame Stadium, and none felt quite like that one. We were a real team. Yes, our dominant win over Nevada the year before felt pretty good, but it was a showcase of talented football players, not a force to be reckoned with. That’s what we be­came late last season. Utah didn’t have a chance. Army didn’t have a chance. USC didn’t have a chance. Miami didn’t have a chance. 
Now back to USF. Dayne went 7/15 for 95 yards and one interception in the first 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Before BCS 
Before the BCS sits an opponent. To this opponent comes Notre Dame, who asks to gain entry into the BCS. But the opponent says that he cannot grant him entry at the moment. Notre Dame thinks about it and then asks if they will be allowed to come in next year. “It is possible,” says the oppo­nent, “but you must win.” The gate to the title stands open, as always, and the networks always air Notre Dame games, so they have the voters’ attention. When the opponent notices that, he laughs and says, “If it tempts you so much, try going inside in spite of my prohibition. But take note. I am the underdog that upsets often. But from week to week stand opponents each more powerful than the other. You also still play Navy.” 
Notre Dame has not expected such difficulties — the BCS should always be accessible for them, they think, but as he now looks more closely at the opponent in his Nike Pro-Combat, at his conference TV contract and his on-field success, Notre Dame decides that it would be better to wait until they reach auto-bid status. The op­ponent gives them a spark of hope in football ability. There they sit for days and years. They make many attempts to qualify, and they wear the Big East out with bowl bids. The opponent often upsets Notre Dame’s ranking, questioning them about their rel­evance, but they are indifferent ques­tions, the kind great men put, and at the end Notre Dame ends up ranked in the preseason. 
Notre Dame, who rides on special­ized BCS qualification standards, spends everything, no matter how valuable, to reach auto-bid status. The media takes it all but, as they do so, say, “I am taking this only so that you do not think you are mediocre.” During the many years Notre Dame observes the opponent almost contin­uously. They forget the other sched­uled opponents, and this first one seems to them the only obstacle for winning another title. Alumni curse the unlucky circumstance, in the first years thoughtlessly and out loud. Later, as they grow old, they only write Viewpoints. They become child­ish and, since in the long years study­ing opponents they have also come to cheer for their success, so long as they lose to Notre Dame. Finally their schedule grows weak, and they do not know whether they are terrible or just not prepared. But they recognize now in the darkness an illumination which breaks inextinguishably out of the gateway to the BCS. Now they no longer have much time conference-less. 
Before their death, a hero, Jack, calls upon his connections. He waves to Texas, since he can no longer sell a 7-4-1 package. Texas does not bend far, for they see their empire crumble before them. “Can two television contracts live in peace?” asks Texas. “We both are insatiable.” “Everyone strives for our brand names,” says Notre Dame, “so how is it that in these many years the SEC continues to dom­inate?” Texas sees that Notre Dame is already dying and, in order to reach their diminishing sense of hearing, they shout, “Let’s form a conference out of arrogance that, while profit­able, will survive on history and not on athletic accomplishments.” 
Chris Bell 
senior 
off campus 
Sept. 5 
half. The offense looked sloppy, and heads were scratched. When he lost his job as the starter last year, it was because of his knee. This year, he was benched because of his performance and the collective performance of the offense under his direction. 
For those of us who made it back into the Stadium, we got to see Tommy go 24/34 in the second half for 296 yards, two touchdowns and two interceptions. Similar to the Tulsa game last year, Tommy had us right there in the end, and I was down in those golden seats jumping up with a legit­imate chance for a win with two minutes left in the game. That feeling, the feeling I hadn’t felt since turning off the TV on New Years Day, was back. Also similar to the Tulsa game, Tommy ran train. And it was magical to watch him do it. 
Yes, we can talk about dropped passes, fumbles and dumb penalties in the first half. They happened. But Tommy was out there playing with the same guys, and he looked a little different. For those of us who made it back into the Stadium after the evacuation, the game felt different. We were in it. After the demoralizing first half, Tommy brought us right back into it. We were an onside kick away (really, a fraction of an inch away) from a last min­ute field goal that could have forced us into an overtime that would have been unwin­nable for the Bulls and possibly one of the most drawn out, epic tales of a comeback that Notre Dame football has ever seen. 
Now, I don’t know Dayne personally. From what I’ve heard, he is a great guy. Unlike some QBs in recent memory, his reputation as a Notre Dame man couldn’t be better. I do not know what the prob­lem is with him and our offense, but for some reason, it just hasn’t worked. I’m not questioning his talent, his character, his determination or his dedication to Irish football. But, for some reason, it just isn’t working. I know how great the story would have been and how we all wanted “C(h) rist” to be our savior, but he isn’t. Maybe it is something as deep as the fact that he spent two years under the reign of Charlie, or maybe it is a simple timing issue with the offense, but whatever it is, it’s hurting Notre Dame’s chance of winning football games. We love you, Dayne, we really do. But you aren’t Kelly’s guy. 
Takeaway? It’s Tommy Time. 
Finally, special teams and another interesting note concerning the Tulsa/USF games: 
We lost to Tulsa by 1. In the 1st quarter, we missed an extra point. 
We lost to USF by 3. In the 3rd quarter, we missed a field goal. 
Takeaway? My theory is right. These games are perfect parallels, and you should agree with me. 
Now, I’m not sure if the QB decision will be made before this makes it to The Observer, but I hope it does. I hope it does because I hate quarterback controversies. If anything can kill a team for an entire season, it’s a quarterback controversy. Brian Kelly is supposed to announce the starter for the Michigan game sometime soon, and if it is Tommy Rees, I will be very excited, and so should you. 
Michael Galano is a senior majoring in business. He can be reached at mgalano@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily that of The Observer. 


The social media cupcake 
There is a spectre haunting Our Lady’s University — the spectre of social media. As The Observer proudly informed us last Friday, this past June the USA Today ranked the University of Notre Dame No. 1 on its list of 20 Ameri­can colleges that have promoted the use of social media. The enthusiasm with which a famously conservative university has embraced Generation Y’s hipster toys is indeed very touching, but as much as I hate to rain on our only parade that’s still dry, I can’t help but ask that thorny question: Is this really what we want? 
Our marketing and communications director, Don Schindler, has an article on his blog in which he spiritedly defends Facebook, Twitter and the blogo­sphere as the way of the future, complete with a slideshow explaining why social media is “the most awesomest thing ever” (apparently because you can Photoshop a cat’s head onto Keanu Reeves’ body). But remarkably scant atten­tion is paid to the presumed benefits of social media and the overwhelming central argument seems to be the simple claim, “It’s happening whether you like it or not. So if you’re not on board you’re screwed.” This kind of unques­tioning fatalism has propelled the movement forward at breakneck speed, but quixotic as this may seem, I think it’s high time somebody asked the question that I think deserves repeating: Is this really what we want? 
I, of course, belong to the younger half of humanity, the under-30 crowd who have never known a life without the Internet, so I have no right to invoke nostalgic memories of the “good ol’ days,” but I don’t think it requires clear memories of a time when people socialized by getting together and actu­ally interacting with one another rather than from darkened rooms behind a computer screen to know which of these I prefer. We once dreamed of a world in which everyone would be given a voice, and now we live in a world where everyone has not only a voice but also a microphone, and nobody can hear what anyone is saying. A world where truth is determined by majority opinion. A world where amateurish rip-offs are passed off as art and where any sense of depth to human existence is being drowned out in a sea of superficiality and mediocrity. Yes, the Internet is fast, sexy and efficient, and yes, it is the future. But at the end of the day, that nagging question won’t go away: Is this really what we want? 
Gabe McDonald 
senior Duncan Hall Sept. 5 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, September 6, 2011 
mation that Lil Wayne is indeed the best rapper alive. Lead singles “6 Foot 7 Foot” and “John (If I Die Today)” did much to quell naysayers throwing around phras­es like “over the hill,” “has-been” and “irrelevant.” But perhaps the most as­tounding thing about “Tha Carter IV” on first listen is that, whether or not Lil Wayne is indeed the best rapper alive, nowhere in this hour and 25 minutes does he claim that title. 
How can this be? What is Lil Wayne without bravado? If he is no longer try­ing to propagate his image of a tortured, drug-addled genius, then who does he think he is? The answer becomes pain­fully apparent after repeated listens to “Tha Carter IV:” frankly, he has no idea. 
The previous themes of drugs, women and wealth are all present, but that top­of-the-world, no-one-can-touch-me feel­ing is not. Even the weed songs, when Wayne used to be at his most genuine, feel hollow. Lyrics such as those on the hook of “Blunt Blowin’” don’t really have much appeal when we all know that if Lil Wayne was doing half of the things he claims, he’d be back behind bars in­stantly. 

“Intro” presents a Willy Will beat that forms the song as well as “Interlude” and “Outro.” The latter two songs contain the bulk of the big-name cameos on the album, including Nas, André 3000 of Outkast, Busta Rhymes and Tech N9ne. For some strange reason, however, Lil Wayne is nowhere to be found on any of these tracks besides “Intro.” Is this humility? Surely not. If it is, it’s misplaced — “Outro” could really have benefited from a verse from Wayne. 
The album has some dizzying highs — aforemen­tioned singles “6 Foot 7 Foot” and “John (If I Die To­day),” as well as current chart-burner “She Will” and “It’s Good,” both of which feature Young Money la­bel mate and Weezy protégé Drake. On these tracks one occasionally hears streaks of the crazed genius Wayne once was. 
“I lost my mind / It’s somewhere out there strand­ed,” he raps on “6 Foot 7 Foot,” but life at the top seems to be getting to the rapper. 
“I rock to the beat of my drum set / I been at the top 

By CHRIS COLLUM 
Scene Writer 

New Orleans’ Dwayne Michael Carter, Jr., known more commonly to the world as Lil Wayne, needs no introduction. The man, who for several years claimed the “Best Rapper Alive” tag without apology, made even more headlines last year when he was sentenced to, and subsequently served, eight months in prison at Rikers Island in New York City, on felony gun charges. He was released in November. 
Prior to his time in prison, Lil Wayne released a startlingly bad attempt at rock-rap fusion called “Re­birth,” his last full-length since 2008’s blockbuster “Tha Carter III.” Later that year, while still behind bars, he released “I Am Not a Human Being,” a hit­and-miss, more traditional rap album. 
“Tha Carter IV” is supposed to be his return to greatness, a continuation of his legacy and a reaffir­for a while and I ain’t jump yet,” he muses on “She Will.” 
However, the album also has some terrible duds. “How to Hate” and “How to Love” are both vanilla, mid-tempo R&B numbers. “Nightmares of the Bot­tom” is an interesting title for a song that emphasizes why Wayne is no longer indisputably at the top of the game. 
And then there are the songs that would be stand­outs on many rappers’ albums, but don’t quite cut it when we’ve seen what Lil Wayne is capable of. “Me­gaman,” which carries the name of its producer, is a frenzied collection of one-liners with no hook that feels like recycled Weezy. “Abortion” is a pensive au­tobiographical attempt that retreads the same ground covered by “Rebirth” highlight “Drop the World” — which was arguably the only truly great song Wayne put out in 2010. 
These are good songs, sure, but when compared to “The Sky Is 



Label: Young Money, Cash Money, 
the Limit,” “3 Peat,” or “Hus-Universal Republic tler Musik?” it’s Release Date: Aug. 29 a little embar­rassing. 
Lil Wayne is not the best rapper alive, he’s no longer claiming to be and apparently he’s also not trying to be anymore. Unanswered questions are present everywhere on “Tha Carter IV.” Why the dichotomy between pa­thetic collaborations with T-Pain (“How to Hate”) and blitzkrieg-style musical manifestos (“6 Foot 7 Foot”)? What about those eight months in prison that get no mention besides a few bars from Drake on “It’s Good?” How is someone whose entire image is built around drug abuse dealing with probation? 

There is hope for the future of Wayne’s career, cer­tainly. It may be many things, but “Tha Carter IV” is not a bad album. But the questionable choices make it a very disappointing effort from an artist who obvi­ously still possesses an incredible amount of talent. 

Contact Chris Collum at ccollum@nd.edu. 


LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 


Tuesday, September 6, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

Photos courtesy of Dylan Walter 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 6, 2011 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 


Threatened Birds 
This is the second of a new Observer feature. A series of 10 Observer sportswriters will have columns appear in this space on a bi-weekly rotation. Hopefully some of these writers will grab your attention, and you’ll know when and where to find more of their thoughts. 
You probably remember it, right? When minuscule Packers cornerback Tramon Williams intercepted Eagles quarter­back Mi­chael Vick in the end zone before gleefully hopping and skip­ping to a stop. 
You remem­ber this, right? It was in Philadelphia, the Eagles hosting their first home playoff game in the newly formed Vick-era. 
What’s that you say? You don’t remember it? Maybe it’s because this game was merely a stepping stone for Green Bay on their way to a Super Bowl title a year ago. Maybe it’s 

Fact — The Eagles signed him. 
No one knows how they did it (except, maybe, Adam Scheft­er) but everyone knows they are better with Asomugha on the team. Couple the dropping of the deadweight known as Kevin Kolb with the addition of Pro Bowl cornerback Domi­nique Rodgers-Cromartie and the Philadelphia secondary has just reloaded. And, oh yeah, they still have Asante Samuel. 
The Eagles also signed de­fensive lineman Jason Babin, a tank on the defensive side who conquered quarterbacks on his way to 12.5 sacks last year. 
But that’s enough defense for now. A primary concern for the Eagles last year was the health of Michael Vick, who has played all 16 regular season games just once in his career, and not since he was released from prison. An insurance policy on Vick’s golden left cannon was in order. 
Enter Vince Young, a very similar quarterback who has shown flashes of brilliance and demonstrated mental gaffes in his five solid but unspectacu­lar years in Tennessee. Could Vick mentor Young? Certainly. Could Young fill in for an in­jured Vick? Certainly. 
Bullet-
fast receiv-



because the By dropping bomb after ers Desean same Eagles, bomb after cherry bomb Jackson and stealthily snip-during the frenzied free Jeremy Ma­ing people from agent period, the Eagles clin compli­the bushes last ment a great 
have taken the crosshairs 
fall, will no ground 
off of the Patriots, the 
longer be cam-game that 
Jets, the Packers, the 
ouflaged. now has 
Steelers and, most 
By dropping Ronnie 
bomb after shockingly, the Cowboys. Brown, the 
bomb after cherry bomb during the frenzied free agent period, the Eagles have taken the cross-hairs off of the Patriots, the Jets, the Packers, the Steel­ers and, most shockingly, the Cowboys. 
This isn’t to say that those other teams, especially the Patriots, won’t be aimed at. Because they will. 
With the signings of so­cial media star and Spanish scholar Chad Ochocinco and perennially underachieving and overpaid defensive line­man Albert Haynesworth, New England definitely made their presence felt in the intensi­fied off-season. But their moves were a water gun to the Eagles’ bazooka. 
Fact — The single most sought-after free agent this summer was Nnamdi Asomu­gha. 
Fact — Many people thought he would go to New York or Dallas. 
bash to 
Lesean Mc­
Coy’s dash. 
Every positional group ap­pears to be a strong one and the entire league knows this. Not many teams have weath­ered the early-season expecta­tions to win a Super Bowl ring. Count the empty-firing Cow­boys among that group. 
The newly appointed “Dream Team” can only go down from here and the fall from sky high to middle of the pack is not a pretty one. 
Eagles are protected in America. But this is not Amer­ica. This is the NFL and Eagles will be hunted all season long. 
Matthew DeFranks is a soph­omore who has been looking for the Dolphins’ replacement for Dan Marino since 2000. He can be reached at mdefrank@ nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB 


Tigers extend lead in AL Central 
Young players shine as White Sox defeat Twins in pitching duel 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND  — Doug Fis­ter’s breaking ball put the brakes on Cleveland’s chal­lenge to first-place Detroit. 
Fister struck out a career-high 13, Victor Martinez hit a three-run homer and the Tigers beat the Indians 4-2 on Monday to extend their AL Central lead to 7½ games. 
“That’s the best I’ve seen Fister,” said Tigers manager Jim Leyland, still wary of the gritty Indians. 
“I’m not looking ahead,” he said. “We haven’t done any­thing but put ourselves in good position. That’s all.” 
Tigers general manager Dave Dombrowski laid the groundwork for the surge by acquiring Fister (7-13) from Seattle on July 30. The right-hander is 4-1 in seven starts for Detroit. He gave up an earned run and four hits over eight innings. 
Jose Valverde worked a perfect ninth to move to 41 for 41 in save opportunities, extending his team record and helping the Tigers im­prove to 14-4 since leading the Indians by 1½ games on Aug. 19. Detroit began a three-game home sweep of the Indians that night and has won five straight against them, sending Cleveland to its largest deficit of the sea­son. 
“We’ve got enough games left, but the main thing is this is the only opportunity to re­ally shave the lead,” Indians manager Manny Acta said. “When you don’t play the team you’re trailing it takes forever sometimes to (cut) a game. 
Martinez drove a 2-2 pitch from Ubaldo Jimenez (2-2) 420 feet into the right-field seats for a 3-0 lead in the fourth. 
“I was looking fastball be­cause that’s what he was throwing everybody else,” Martinez said. “He threw one down the middle and I swung.” 
Jimenez struck out five over the first two innings and didn’t yield a hit until Delmon Young singled with one out in the fourth. Miguel Cabrera then walked before Martinez connected for his ninth homer. 
Martinez, dealt to Boston by the Indians at the trading deadline in 2009, signed with the Tigers as a free agent last winter. He is batting .392 with runners in scoring posi­tion and .324 with 82 RBIs over­all. 
Grady Sizemore, activated by Cleveland after six weeks on the disabled list, drove in an un­earned run with a groundout in the fifth to make it 3-1. 
The Indians, riddled by in­juries all year, led the division from April 8 until June 14, when the Tigers’ Justin Ver­lander beat them 4-0. Cleveland climbed back into the lead, but has trailed Detroit since losing to the Chicago White Sox 3-0 on July 22. 
Jason Donald singled, took second on a wild pickoff attempt by Fister and advanced to third on a groundout by Lou Marson. Sizemore hit a sharp grounder up the middle that shortstop Jhonny Peralta fielded behind the second-base bag. His throw to first got Sizemore as Donald scored. 
Detroit added another run in the eighth on Cabrera’s fielder’s choice with the bases loaded. 
Kosuke Fukudome hit his sec­ond homer for Cleveland with one out in the eighth. Fukudome hit three homers for the Chicago Cubs before being acquired by the Indians in July. 
White Sox 2, Twins 1 
MINNEAPOLIS — Anthony Swarzak and Philip Humber got to know each other when the two right-handers played together in Minnesota’s farm system. 
And just as Humber has be­came a mainstay in the Chicago White Sox rotation this year, Swarzak is hoping a strong Sep­tember will make him a con­tender for the Twins’ staff in 2012. 
Swarzak (3-6) took a step in that direction Monday, throw­ing eight strong innings in the Twins’ 2-1 loss to the White Sox in the first game of a day-night double header. The 25-year­old gave up two runs on seven hits with four strikeouts and no walks. 
‘“I got to know Humber a little bit working when were playing together in (Triple-A) Roches­ter,’“ Swarzak said. ‘“Really good guy, he works his butt off. It’s showing, he’s having a great year.’“ 
Humber (9-8) was making his first start since Aug. 18 when he was struck above the right eye by a line drive off the bat of Ko­suke Fukudome. He gave up six hits, struck out six and did not walk a batter. 
‘“He’s made some adjust­ments that he’s had to make,’“ Swarzak said of Humber. ‘“I’ve made some adjustments as well, and now its showing. He’s put­ting together a pretty good year. Hopefully he finishes strong for himself and for his family.’“ 
Minnesota’s best threat against Humber came in the seventh when Danny Valencia led off with an infield single and moved to second two batters later on a bunt single by Luke Hughes. But Rene Rivera hit into an around-the-horn double-play to end the inning. 
“Well-pitched game on both sides, Humber and Swarzy both threw the ball very very well,’“ Twins manager Ron Gardenhire said. ‘“Heck of an effort, had a chance to win, we just couldn’t come up with a hit.’“ 
The lone offensive highlight for Minnesota was Brian Din­kelman, who had a career-high three hits for the Twins. Luke Hughes had a sacrifice fly in the ninth. 
‘“So nice to see the kid come back up here,’“ Gardenhire said of Dinkelman. ‘“He’s worked really really hard. He’s one of those guys that you root for and he had a good day today offen­sively.’“ 
Dinkelman, recalled from Tri­ple-A Rochester Sunday, started at second base. He’s been play­ing more outfield recently but he said infield is his natural posi­tion. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
mid-November, 2011 and 2 follow-Rage—Goddess, Cattle and fat sheep can all be 

TICKETS PERSONAL WANTED 
up questionnaires spring, 2012. had for the raiding, tripods all for sing the rage of Peleus’ son the trading, and tawny-headed Total compensation is $405. Achilles, murderous, doomed, stallions. But a man’s life breath that cost the Achaeans countless cannot come back again— 

BUYING SEASON TICKETS/ UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t Research Participants Needed You must not be allergic to latex. losses, hurling down to the House 
go it alone. Notre Dame has many 
of Death so many sturdy souls, . . .Mother tells me, the immortal 

resources in place to assist you. Healthy adults, ages 18-71 years, Email Dr. Anita Kelly at akelly@ great fighters’ souls, but made goddess Thetis with her glistening 
If you or someone you love needs needed for psychology study at nd.edu. State your available hours their bodies carrion, feasts for the feet, that two fates bear me on 
ANY GAMES - GAs only. confidential support or assistance, Notre Dame. Sundays-Friday. dogs and birds, and the will of to the day of death. If I hold out 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 
Zeus was moving toward its end. here and I lay siege to Troy, my 

or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more Must have 8th grade reading information, visit ND’s website at: ability. Begin, Muse, when the two first journey home is gone, but my glory Involves ten 45-minute weekly Observer writers wanted. broke and clashed, Agamemnon never dies. If I voyage back to the Call 574-277-1659 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu sessions from mid-September to lord of men and brilliant Achilles. fatherland I love. 
Tuesday, September 6, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
NFL 

Secondary additions join Falcons to bolster defense 
Seahawks’ key additions WR Rice and OL Gallery face injury concerns as opening weekend approaches 
Associated Press return of an interception for be on the field.” a touchdown. Sanders started Sanders was quickly scooped 
FLOWERY BRANCH, Ga. — 49 games for the Patriots and up by the Falcons after be-Excuse Kelvin Hayden if his is coming off a season in which ing cut by the Patriots. The head is spinning a bit. he set career highs with three 28-year-old Hayden took a 
He’s buried himself in an un-interceptions and six passes little longer to find a new job, familiar playbook. He’s trying defended. having missed the final four to become familiar with dif-“You can’t coach depth. You games last season with a neck ferent terminology. He’s strug-can’t coach experience,” Fal-injury that reportedly scared gling to learn everyone’s name cons linebacker Mike Peter-off some teams. on his new team, including the son said. “Anytime you get a Hayden said he’s fully recov­coaches for the Atlanta Fal-chance to add that to the mix, ered from the latest in a se­cons. it’s a plus.” ries of injuries that have kept 
The cornerback called up Given their resumes, both him from playing a full season one of the assistants a couple could eventually challenge for since 2007. of times over the weekend, go-extensive playing time, maybe “My neck is fine,” he said. “I ing over calls and formations. even a starting job. The cur-feeling good and ready to go.” Now, if only he could remem-rent starters look forward to The Falcons lack significant ber who was on the other end getting pushed by the newcom-depth behind DeCoud and of the line. ers. William Moore. Second-year 
“It’s a challenge,” Hayden “They are two proven play-player Shann Schillinger is the said Monday, standing in front ers in this league,” safety only other safety on the roster, of a locker that was identified Thomas DeCoud said. “Compe-so Sanders should get exten­as his by a handwritten plac-tition always breeds success. It sive playing time once he’s fa­ard. “I’m still learning the will make us better as a team miliar with the system. coaches’ names.” and as individuals.” Pro Bowler Brent Grimes 
Hayden is one of two experi-First, Hayden and Sanders and Dunta Robinson are set at enced defensive backs signed have to learn the ropes with the cornerback positions, but last week by the Falcons to a new organization. They only Hayden could fill a valuable bolster their thin secondary, signed with the Falcons in time role at nickel back. Chris Ow-another step toward building to watch the final preseason ens is still on the roster, but has a team that can make a run game from the sideline. They yet to live up to expectations at the Super Bowl. In the very practiced for the first time heading into his third season. Sanders was pleased to wind roll said. “We’ll be in the game next locker was safety James Monday, a dreary day in the He was picked on mercilessly up with another winning or-with seven or eight linemen Sanders, who landed in At-Atlanta area as the remnants by Packers quarterback Aaron ganization after leaving the and guys have to play multiple lanta under similar circum-of Tropical Storm Lee made Rodgers in Green Bay’s playoff Patriots. spots.” stances. their way northward. romp over the Falcons. “This is a good, young, up-One of the options could be 


Both were dumped by their “Of course, I want to get After a winless preseason, and-coming football team,” he rookie first-round pick James previous teams — Hayden in out there and play,” said the Atlanta opens the regular sea-said. “They have great players, Carpenter, who has struggled Indianapolis, Sanders in New 27-year-old Sanders, who got son Sunday at Chicago in a great management, everything at right tackle during the England — more for salary a locker right beside Hayden matchup of division champions you could want in an organi-preseason. Seattle got to the cap reasons than their perfor-and had lunch with him before from 2010. zation. I’m thankful for the point in its final two exhibi­mance on the field. practice. “But right now, my “I’m trying my best to get out opportunity to be here. I’m tion games of working in vet-
Hayden starred in the Colts’ focus is on learning the play-there,” Hayden said. “I might thankful to be an Atlanta Fal-eran Breno Giacomini along Super Bowl win in 2007, book and this team. Without miss the first game, but then I con. I look forward to helping with Carpenter at tackle as the clinching the victory with his that, there’s no way I can even feel like I’ll be ready to go.” us win some games.” rookie had problems with out­
side speed rushers. Seahawks Camp Carpenter did play a little 
RENTON, Wash. — Two of bit at guard on Monday, Car­Seattle’s biggest offseason ac-roll said. It’s not a completely quisitions aren’t even certain awkward place for Carpenter, to be ready for the season who was a left tackle in college opener Sunday in San Fran-at Alabama. He shifted inside cisco. and played guard at the Senior 
Both offensive lineman Rob-Bowl to show NFL scouts he ert Gallery and wide receiver could play the position. Sidney Rice are hobbling just “It’s not foreign to me be-days before Carroll’s second cause I’ve been playing on the season in charge of the Se-left side for five years before ahawks begins. I got over here. That’s not the 
The larger question looms problem,” Carpenter said. “I’m around Gallery, who sprained more comfortable on the left, a knee Friday night in the ex-but I’m going to do my job to hibition finale against Oak-help my team win.” land. Gallery was hurt late in If Gallery can’t go on Sunday, the first quarter and his avail-other options would include ability for the 49ers is in ques-veteran Paul McQuistan or tion. backup guard/center Lemuel 
“He’s had a couple of good Jeanpierre. days here. He has a sprained Rice sat out the Seahawks knee and we’re just going to first preseason game against have to see how it goes day to San Diego, but played against day,” Carroll said of his big of-Minnesota and Denver. He was fensive lineman. “We’ll watch pulled from practice last Tues-him carefully and he’s hope-day with a sore shoulder and ful he can make it back by the hasn’t participated since. weekend. We’ll have to wait “Sidney is a bit slower than and see.” that. We’ll wait until later in 
But the injury concerns don’t the week to know what’s going end there for Seattle. on with him,” Carroll said. 
While running back Mar-Gallery wasn’t the only play­shawn Lynch (ankle) and er to leave Friday’s game with linebacker David Hawthorne a sprained knee. Defensive (knee) are both expected to lineman Jimmy Wilkerson also return to practice on Wednes-injured his knee in the win day, according to coach Pete over Oakland, but Wilkerson Carroll, there’s still a looming was placed on injured reserve question about Rice and a sore Saturday when final roster shoulder that kept him out of cuts were announced. the final preseason game. Carroll said that Wilker-
The Seahawks have some son will need surgery and depth at receiver, but the un-that prompted to the move certainty around Gallery is al-to end his season. Seattle ready forcing Seattle’s strug-also claimed a pair of defen­gling offensive line to examine sive tackles — Landon Cohen some new combinations. and Al Woods — off waivers 
“You have to develop all the on Sunday to try and provide flexibility that you can,” Car-depth on the defensive line. 



page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, September 6, 2011 

TENNIS 

Williams, Djokovic move to quarterfinals 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Serena Wil­liams fought off the wind, along with brief flurries of effective­ness from her opponent, to ad­vance to the quarterfinals of the U.S. Open on Monday with a 6-3, 6-4 victory over Ana Iva­novic. 
Williams closed out the match with four straight serves that Ivanovic couldn’t get back — clocked at between 99 and 111 mph in a blustery Arthur Ashe Stadium that had both players fighting with their tosses and topspin all day. 
“I didn’t even go for winners at any point,” said Williams, who hit only 16. “I just tried to get it over because it was so windy. It was definitely tough.” 
Seeded only 28th after miss­ing big chunks of the last two years with injuries to her foot, Williams nonetheless improved to 16-0 this year on hardcourt. She has yet to drop a set at the 
U.S. Open and now finds herself in her first Grand Slam quar­terfinal since last year at Wim­bledon, when she won her 13th major title. 
With each win at Flushing Meadows, she makes a stronger case that the “28” before her name at this tournament is only a number. When healthy, she might be the best in the world. 
“I don’t know if I’m the best or not,” she said. “I believe I am and I think a lot of other girls, women in the locker room, believe they are, too, as they should. I don’t think any­one should go out and say that they’re not.” 
The top player on the men’s side, Novak Djokovic, opened his fourth-round match with a thrilling 16-14 first-set tie­breaker win over No. 22 Alex­andr Dolgopolov. Things got easier from there in a 7-6 (14), 6-4, 6-2 victory. 
“This is one of the longest tie­breaks I ever played,” Djokovic said. “It was certainly exciting to be part of it. But, you know, I knew that I needed to win that set.” 
Djokovic saved four set points and finally closed out the set on his sixth chance. When Dol­gopolov missed a forehand to give Djokovic the set, Djokovic pumped his fist and put his hands to his ears to take in the applause from the fans at Louis Armstrong Stadium, which sees fewer and fewer headliners as the tournament progresses and the big matches move into Ashe. 
“It was a packed stadium. It was a different experience be­cause I haven’t played on that court for a while,” Djokovic said. 
In the women’s match, 16th­seeded Ivanovic, the 2008 French Open champion and a one-time world No. 1, came in on a rebound after a slide down the rankings into the 60s. At times against Williams, flashes of the old Ivanovic showed, es­pecially when she drew back to 3-3 in the first set after drop­ping the first three games in eight minutes. 
Taking the ball early, un­afraid to step inside the base­line to return Williams’ sec­ond serves, Ivanovic was the aggressor during that portion and in parts of the second set when she tried, unsuccessfully, to make up the break she lost in the first game. 
But she couldn’t overcome eight double faults, including three while serving at 3-4 in the first set, and didn’t have an answer for Williams who was less aggressive (16 winners to 20 for Ivanovic), but more con­sistent (14 unforced errors to 
29) and also had more bite on her serve (nine aces). 
“My serve broke down a little more than hers,” Ivanovic said. “I still created lots of opportu­nities and I felt I was stepping up a lot and I just felt that was the biggest difference today.” 
MLB 
Lawrie lifts Blue Jays in extras 
Associated Press 
TORONTO — Brett Lawrie celebrated his first month in the majors with a game-win­ning home run. 
The Blue Jays’ rookie third baseman drilled a two-out drive to center in the 11th in­ning for the only run of the game as Toronto beat the Bos­ton Red Sox 1-0. 
“What a splash and what a start to a big league career,” said appreciative manager John Farrell, who returned to the dugout after missing 10 games with pneumonia. 
Shawn Camp (3-3) pitched one scoreless inning for the win as the Blue Jays snapped a three-game losing streak. 
Boston lost for the fifth time in seven games. 
Promoted from Triple-A Las Vegas on Aug. 4, Lawrie made his debut at Baltimore the fol­lowing day. One month in, he’s made it look easy, batting .318 with eight homers and 21 RBIs. The decisive drive off Dan Wheeler (2-2) was the first walkoff hit of his young career. 
“My head is still going a mile a minute,” Lawrie said. “It’s one of those things that’s very, very cool and I’ll treasure it forever.” 
Wheeler said he missed with his location on the pivotal pitch. 
“It was a fastball, just kind of flat,” Wheeler said. “It went right down the middle. It was supposed to be down and away but didn’t quite get there.” 
As good as he’s been at the plate, Lawrie has been just as impressive defensively, helping turn a 1-5-6 double play that got Toronto out of a jam in the fifth. 
“He has settled in at third base very well, not just from the throws but the reaction time, the different angles he’s taken to some balls,” Farrell said. “He’s done an outstanding job for us.” 
Boston starter Josh Beckett left in the fourth inning after feeling pain in his ankle on consecutive pitches to Lawrie. He’ll return to Boston on Tues­day to be examined by a doctor. 
“It’s always concerning,” Beckett said. “That’s my power leg.” 
Beckett slipped and fell while warming up in the bullpen, but didn’t think that had anything to do with the pain that forced him out. 
“I felt it on the second to last pitch and then it felt a little bit different on the last pitch I threw,” he said. “I didn’t feel it till those last two pitches. 
“It felt like it was locked up and then it popped in and out of the socket or something,” Beck­ett added. 
Catcher Jason Varitek didn’t notice anything out of the ordi­nary until Beckett missed with a 1-2 fastball to Lawrie. 
“He seemed to make a funny face and kind of came off the mound funny on that pitch,” said Varitek, who promptly called manager Terry Fran­cona and trainer Mike Reinold out of the dugout. 
After a brief discussion, Beckett walked off the field without assistance and was re­placed by right-hander Alfredo Aceves. 
“It was getting stiff and it was getting sore so we got him out of there,” Francona said. 
An All-Star for the third time this season, Beckett came in having won his past three starts. He allowed three hits in 3 2-3 scoreless innings with six strikeouts and one walk. 
Blue Jays right-hander Hen­derson Alvarez pitched six scoreless innings, extending his shutout streak to 14 in­nings. Alvarez allowed four hits, walked one and struck out four. 
“He had tremendous move­ment, just natural movement,” Francona said. “The ball was diving all over the place.” 
Alvarez retired the first eight batters in order before Marco Scutaro singled in the third. Jacoby Ellsbury doubled him to third but Dustin Pedroia grounded out to end the threat. 
The Red Sox put runners at first and second with two outs in the fourth but Josh Reddick struck out looking. 
Scutaro hit a one-out dou­ble in the fifth but was caught in a rundown after Alvarez grabbed Ellsbury’s grounder to the mound. Ellsbury tried to advance to second but was thrown out, completing the 1-5-6 double play. 
Carlos Villanueva replaced Alvarez and walked Kevin Youkilis to begin the seventh. After Carl Crawford flied out, Reddick singled to right and both runners advanced on Va­ritek’s grounder. Scutaro end­ed the inning by grounding out to shortstop. 
Adrian Gonzalez hit a two-out double off Casey Janssen in the eighth and David Ortiz was intentionally walked to bring up Youkilis, who struck out looking. 


Tuesday, September 6, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
MLB 

Kuroda allows four HRs in loss 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Hiroki Ku­roda had never allowed three homers in a game in his four seasons with the Los Angeles Dodgers. The Washington Na­tionals finally got to him for three on Monday — in the first inning. 
Michael Morse, Ian Desmond and Jayson Werth con­nected during Ku-rocky first inning and didn’t al­low another run until Morse’s second homer of the game. 
“He got himself into a groove and pitched well after that,” Dodger manager Don Mattingly said. “He gave us some chances to kind of creep back in.” 
Jamey Carroll and Matt Kemp hit consecu­tive doubles in the first to give the Dodg­ers the lead, 

roda’s shaky start, “He got himself into but Desmond and Morse also led off the bot-
a groove and pitched 
went deep against tom half with
well after that.” 
the right-hander a drive to left-in the sixth in-center on 1-2 
Don Mattingly
ning, sending the slider. Dodgers to a 7-2 Dodger manager “They kind 
loss. 
“I didn’t have my slider in the first inning, or throughout the game,” Kuroda said through an interpreter. 
John Lannan pitched into the sixth inning for the Nationals, who had dropped 10 of 12. 
Los Angeles now has dropped two straight following an 11-1 stretch. 
Kuroda (11-15) had a season-high nine strikeouts, but gave up five runs and eight hits in six innings. He entered with a career-high four-game winning streak and hadn’t given up five earned runs in a game since a May 28 loss to Florida. 
He settled down after the of had the 
momentum 
right there in 
the first in­
ning,” Des­mond said. “It was nice for us to answer back and then con­tinue to keep it going the rest of the game. That’s something we haven’t done this year.” 
After Rick Ankiel singled and Ryan Zimmerman’s fly ball was caught at the wall, Morse’s drive cleared the fence in left. Werth followed with another shot to left, also on a slider, for the fourth set of back-to-back home runs by the Nationals this sea­son. 
“That was the pitch that gave us trouble in the first inning,” Dodgers catcher A.J. Ellis said of Kuroda’s slider. “They did a good job hitting the ones that we left in the strike zone. After we made an adjustment and start­ed using the split-finger more, along with sinker, and after that he was able to cruise through the next few innings.” 
Justin Sellers hit an RBI dou­ble in the ninth for Los Angeles. Ellis finished with a double and a single. 
Morse drove in three runs and was one of five Nationals with two hits. 
Lannan (9-11), who had lost his previous four starts, allowed one run and five hits in 5 1-3 in­nings. 
“He was pretty good,” Ellis said. “He does a good job mixing speeds. His fastball and change-up look so much alike. He does a good job with deception and it’s tough to sit on a certain speed. He’s got the ability to throw any pitch on any count. He’s tough and he got the better of us to­day.” 
Collin Balester, Tom Gorz­elanny, Tyler Clippard and Sean Burnett combined for the final 3 2-3 innings. 
Los Angeles put two on with no outs in the fourth inning but Russ Mitchell grounded into a double play that nearly was a triple play, and Tony Gwynn Jr. flied out to left to end the inning. 
“We didn’t put many up to­day, but we really didn’t give ourselves a lot of chances,” Mat-tingly said. 
Seniors 
continued from page 16 
spanning her time there. 
As a Notre Dame sopho­more in the 2009-10 sea­son, Allare saw action for the first time, appearing in three events and posting a respectable average of 81.0 strokes per round. 
This past season, Allare dramatically improved her average to 78.3 strokes per round, seeing action in six 
Kuschel 
continued from page 16 
Kuschel said the losses have only heightened her team’s desire to defeat the Hornets, who are always tough con­ference competition for the Belles. Saint Mary’s lost both of their matchups against the Hornets in the 2010 season. 
“Kalamazoo has some new faces on their team this sea­son,” Kuschel said. “Howev­er, we know who their strong returning hitter is. If we are able to block well and run our offense it should be a great game.” 
Kuschel believes facing tal­ented competition this past weekend will only help her team gain motivation against conference opponents. 
“Playing such high caliber teams this past weekend, we were able to see what it takes if we want to win in tournaments. Her best finish occurred at the Mary Fos­sum Invitational, in which she shot a career best 230 for three rounds and fin­ished tied for 15th place. 
Holt believes Allare will take equal strides forward in improving her game her se­nior year. The Allare-Huffer tandem will once more lead the Irish in their attempt to return to the NCAA tourna­ment, she said. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 
our tough MIAA conference this season,” Kuschel said. 
With such a young team, including eight freshmen in the 14-member squad, Kus­chel believes the first week­end was mainly about her players getting to know the game with their new team­mates. From here on out, she said, they mean business. 
“This season we are going in knowing that every match is a new opportunity to play together,” Kuschel said. “We feel that every match and point is an important one.” 
Kuschel said the Belles’ strategy this week will be the same as always. 
“If we want to beat Ka­lamazoo, it will need to be a team effort as always,” she said. 
The Belles will take on the Hornets Tuesday at 7 p.m. at the Anderson Athletic Center. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

................................................................................................... 
...................................................................... .. .. ........
................................................... ........ 

......................................... 
....................... ................ ....................... 

........................................................ ......................................................................... 
..................................................
.. .. ........
............ 
............................................... 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, September 6, 2011 

Summer 
continued from page 16 
Junior Chrissie McGaffigan spent the summer studying in Ireland, an experience several older teammates took advan­tage of in previous summers. 
Student athletes don’t get the opportunity to study abroad during the semesters like regu­lar students, senior Shannon Mathews said. 
“We’re playing year-round,” Mathews said. “During the summer we do a lot of differ­ent things that we aren’t able to do during the season, whether it’s study abroad, getting an in­ternship or going to see family.” 
In past summers, Mathews studied in Paris and senior Kristy Frilling studied in South Africa. 
“I was able to travel around and see Europe, so it was a really great opportunity and something that Kristy, Chrissie and I really wanted to be a part of,” Mathews said. 
But even traveling through Africa or holding an internship in Chicago doesn’t excuse an athlete from the training re­quired to stay in shape. 
“It’s up to us go hit with each other or work out or go run,” Mathews said. “We want to keep up with our fitness and that kind of thing and set a reg­imen.” 
Other Irish tennis players sought educational experiences a little closer to home. Three sophomores — Jennifer Kell­ner, Britney Sanders and Julie Sabacinski — stayed on cam­pus to take extra classes. They trained with each other and with Frilling and sophomore JoHanna Manningham, both of whom live in South Bend. 
The five players who re­mained close to campus met twice a week for morning train­ing sessions and got together nearly every day of the summer to hit around. 
Manningham and Kell­ner kept their skills sharp by competing in summer tourna­ments, but for most of the team, regular season practices will be more demanding than the training done during the off­season. 
“The off-season is definitely more relaxed,” Sabacinski said. “In-season is pretty intense 
— everyone is working pretty hard. It’s not way harder, but it’s definitely harder.” 
Unlike more casual summer hit-around sessions, official practices feature daily hits that can last for an hour and a half to two hours, as well as specific drills and scrimmage matches. The team also lifts weights with a trainer two times a week and goes on training runs with an assistant coach. 
Due to NCAA regulations, captains must organize and oversee practices until Sept. 13, when coaches will be allowed to attend practices for the first time this academic year. The fall tournament schedule will also be finalized around this time. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
Finley 
continued from page 16 
viously Notre Dame has both of those things,” Finley said. “I also knew [junior mid­fielder] Dillon Powers and [senior midfielder] Brendan King from the U.S. National Team so I obviously talked to them about how they liked it. When I came to visit, [Irish] coach Clark, I was really just blown away by him … and by the coaching staff as a whole. Those things all to­gether really made it an easy decision.” 
When Finley expressed in­terest in Notre Dame, Clark seized the opportunity to land the talented transfer. Beyond his skill on the field, Finley pos­
sessed all “He was strong the ball and the other academically, he was passes the qualities coming from a school ball, for be-Clark looks very similar to Notre ing a goal for in his Dame and he had sc orer, players. excellent statistics on that’s every 
“We felt the soccer field. So these for wa rd ’s he was a were all very positive.” dream to good fit,” have the Clark said. midfield that 
Bobby Clark 
“He was we have,” 
Irish coach 
strong academi ­cally, he was com­ing from a school very similar to Notre Dame and he had excellent statistics on the soccer field. So these were all very positive.” 
When Clark found out Fin­ley had roomed with King during a stint with the U-17 
U.S. National Team, and later with Powers on the U-20 U.S. National Team, he turned to his players for an evaluation of the prospective transfer. 
“I asked both of these lads, Brandon and Dillon, if they thought he would be a good teammate, and they both felt he would be an excellent teammate,” Clark said. 
For Finley, the transition was seamless. He credits his coaches and teammates with making the process of step­ping onto the Irish team so manageable. 
“All the guys are great guys to begin with, as well as great soccer players,” he said. “I came in during the summer, which was a huge, huge help to just get accli­mated with the campus, and a bunch of the guys were here also, so that obviously helped a lot too. 
“The coaching staff has just made me feel really wel­come and kind of showed me the ropes here in the first games and throughout pre­season. When you are in a new situation, you want to blend in as soon as possible and feel welcome — I think the team really did a great job of that.” 
In the Adidas/IU Credit Union Classic over the week­end, the forward netted two goals in Notre Dame’s 4-1 win over Dayton (0-3-0) on Friday and added another score in Sunday’s 2-1 (2OT) loss to St. Louis (1-2-0). With his ability surrounded by a skilled Irish squad, there should be plenty more scor­ing opportunities ahead for Finley. 
“With our 
team and 
the way ev­
eryone keeps 
Finley said. 
“They do 
all the hard 
work — I’m 
just on the 
end to finish off. Obviously before I even came I was really excited to play with the awesome play­ers we have on the team. I’m just really excited to keep going along and see how far this team can take it.” 
But Finley will have to wait until Sunday when the Irish host Bucknell to retake the field with his team. Af­ter being issued a red card in last Sunday’s match, Fin­ley will have to sit out Notre Dame’s Friday matchup with Denver. 
“I was pretty angry about [the call] because I didn’t re­ally think it deserved a red card,” Finley said. “Watch­ing them score that overtime goal, I think a lot of lessons can be taken from it. I think it can serve as a motivation not only for me, but for the rest of the team.” 
The Irish will play Denver at 7:30 p.m. Friday at Alum­ni Stadium, then matchup against Bucknell on Sunday at 2 p.m. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 

Joyce 
continued from page 16 
The Belles’ first two games, a pair of commanding 4-0 victories over Defiance and Thiel, demonstrated the seamless incorporation of new players into their line­up. Junior midfielder Kari McClowry named just a few improvements she wants to see from her team. 
“We need to make sure our passes always connect, com­municate effectively and be confident when we attack,” McClowry said.
 In addition to continuing the team’s two-game win­ning streak, Joyce is looking to this game to help deter­mine his starters for when conference play begins. 
“We’ve got a lot of fresh­men hungry for starting spots and playing time,” Joyce said. “They have no problem getting motivated to play, so that makes my job easy.” 
Freshman defender Mary Kate Hussey said she is not fazed by the threat of the Spartans and is eager to showcase her talents. 
“I keep an open mind about every matchup and know that each team is different,” Hussey said. “I expect every team we play to be good so I’m always prepared.” 
Joyce wants his players to use these early games to develop their chemistry and perfect the details of their play. 
“We’re less concerned about who the opponent is and what they do on the field [this week],” Joyce said. “Once we get into the confer­ence games, you game plan a little more for particular op­ponents.” 
The Belles will take on the Spartans Tuesday at 5 p.m. at Saint Mary’s soccer fields. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

Tuesday, September 6, 2011 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JON REPINE 
JUMBLE HENRy ARNOLD 

EXPND MIKE ARGIRION 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 


Tuesday, September 6, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 

MEN’S SOCCER 
Transfer Finley fits in easily with Irish team 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
After being recognized as the ACC Player of the Year with Duke last season, junior forward Ryan Finley man­aged to find his niche at Notre Dame, both on the field and off. 
Finley scored 17 goals for the Blue Devils last year and added three assists to account for 20 of Duke’s 34 goals. He also led Division I with .94 goals per game and ranked second in the nation in points per game. No. 24 Duke went 10-6-4 before being bounced from the second round of the NCAA tournament by South Carolina. After last season, Finley was drawn to Notre Dame (1-1-1) for a number of reasons. 
“I kind of wanted to go to another place where soccer, as well as academics, were the best in the country so ob-
see FINLEY/page 14 

Trading Places 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles set to commence MIAA play 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Though Saint Mary’s suf­fered a rough weekend at the Mount Union Tournament, the Belles will look to put the past behind them as they begin conference play against Ka­lamazoo Tuesday. 
Saint Mary’s (1-3) did not have the opening weekend it had hoped for in Alliance, Ohio, falling to Mount Union, Geneva and Mount Saint Jo­seph by counts of 3-0, 3-1 and 3-1, respectively. There were bright spots, however, includ­ing a 3-2 victory over Allegh­eny and a promising display of teamwork, Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. 
“For a very young team, we played very well together,” Kuschel said. “We expected a lot out of our freshmen this past weekend and they deliv­ered.” 
see KUSCHEL/page 13 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Two seniors bring leadership, experience to Notre Dame 
By MATT UNGER son, Huffer and Allare offer lead the way they always of the Year. In her sophomore son. At the NCAA Champion-Sports Writer leadership and experience have. Huffer, a native of Den-year, she cut her stroke aver-ships, she finished tied for 
this season and are joined ver, Colo., made an immediate age to 74.90 to again lead the 24th, shooting a 296 over four 
As the Notre Dame women’s by highly touted freshmen impact on the team her fresh-Irish in that category. rounds of tournament play. golf program has risen to the Ashley Armstrong and Kellie man year and has competed As a junior last season, Allare does not boast quite top tier of the NCAA during Oride. in all Irish golf events since. Huffer garnered her best ever the collegiate experience, as the five-year tenure of Irish “Our team definitely pos-As the 2008 High School finish in an individual tour-she did not receive any tour-coach Susan Holt, seniors sesses depth,” Holt said. Female Athlete of the Year in nament, placing second in the nament action her freshman Becca Huffer and Katie Allare “There isn’t one single player Colorado, Huffer entered the John Kirk/Panther Intercol-year. However, she served as have played integral roles in we have to rely on, as every-team with high expectations. legiate last March. Her score a team captain for her Phoe­the team’s success. one, one through five, is ca-The three-time All-Big East lifted the Irish to a first-place nix, Ariz. high school and 
As two of the three return-pable of performing.” honor winner led the squad finish in the tournament. captured 10 straight Arizo­ing players who helped lead Even with such a complete her freshman year with a Huffer also placed in the na state golf championships their first ever NCAA cham-squad, Holt will look to her 75.55 stroke average, earn-top 10 in tournaments on four pionship appearance last sea-two seniors to continue to ing the title of Big East Rookie occasions throughout the sea-see SENIORS/page 13 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

ND keeps busy during summer 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
Summertime might be relax­ing for many students, but for members of the women’s tennis team, the hazy days of July and August are far from lazy — and it doesn’t get any easier once the school year starts. 
The Irish began their sum­mer adventures fresh from their fourth consecutive Big East championship and were fully aware of the training needed to capture a fifth. Some team members took advantage of the short break to go abroad, while others stayed on campus to prepare for the next season. 
see SUMMER/page 14 


SMC SOCCER 
Belles to match up against Manchester 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
After clenching the team’s first tournament title since 2008 in the Defiance Clas­sic, the Belles look to main­tain their winning ways as they host Manchester Tues­day. 
The last time these two squads matched up, Saint Mary’s fell to the Spartans 2-0 in a game that could have gone either way, Belles coach Michael Joyce said. 
“It was a close game, but the score went to wrong way for us,” Joyce said. “We’re looking for another tight game.” 
Though the Belles have performed well so far this season, they know they have a long way to go until they are primed for confer­ence play. 
“We’ve got to work on some of our defensive rota­tions against different for­mations we’ll see,” Joyce said. “We’ll also have to im­prove our attacking in the last third of the field.” 
see JOYCE/page 14 





