
Holtz family supports academics 
Observer Staff Report 
Former Irish football coach Lou Holtz left the University as a coach in 1986, but he continues to be involved in another realm of life at Notre Dame: . academ­ics. 
Holtz and his wife Beth agreed to serve as Notre Dame’s first “ambassadors for research” by increasing awareness of the University’s research initiatives, according to a Saturday press release. 
“Beth and I have always be­lieved that Notre Dame is dif­ferent,” Holtz said. “Not only by educating young people who go out and do remarkable things in the world, but also through its commitment to research with potential to alleviate pain and suffering, the University is tak­ing on global challenges and bringing about real change.” 
The Holtz family also donated $1 million to Notre Dame in sup­port of research projects during the “Spirit of Notre Dame” cam­paign, which ended June 30, the release stated. 
University President John Jenkins said he is appreciative of the Holtz family’s investment in Notre Dame. 
“Lou and Beth Holtz are a tes­tament to the human spirit, and we are so thankful and proud to have them as part of the Notre Dame family,” Jenkins said. “Through their generous finan­cial contributions to the Uni­versity . and the precious gift of their time as ambassadors for research . they are adding to the many blessings they and their family already have bestowed upon us.” 
Beth Holtz was diagnosed with stage-four cancer in 1997, the release stated. She said she credits her recovery to the support of family and friends, as well as to the research that helped her become cancer-free. 
“This [research] is also deeply personal to us,” she said in a video that accompanied the re­lease. 
Holtz said he is also grateful for the support and research that saved his wife’s life.
 “We are as grateful to be part of the Notre Dame family today as we were 14 years ago when Beth was diagnosed with stage-four cancer,” Holtz said. “We think it’s a miracle that because of God’s blessing and research that she is with us today.” 
Notre Dame always contrib­uted to those in need, Holtz said, 

see HOLTZ/page 5 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 



Loss strikes down Irish 
By  ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
High expectations only make the fall that much harder. 
Saturday’s 23-20 loss to South Florida was disheart­ening both for freshmen experiencing their very first game and for seniors feeling the sting of defeat all over again. 
Senior David Mahin has gone through some tough sea­sons as a Notre Dame student but thought things would be different this year. 
He said he was let down by Saturday’s performance. 
“It felt like we lost three times,” he said. 
For freshmen like Todd Hagist, the defeat was also tough. 
“I had high hopes for this season, but losing to South Florida made me think we are going to lose every game this season,” Hagist said. “The storm clouds seemed like an omen for a legendary Notre Dame comeback for the ages, but it never came to fruition.” 
After a disappointing first half, Saturday’s game was paused due to severe weather warnings, and fans were asked to seek shelter in various buildings around campus. 
According to Notre Dame Sports Information, Satur­day’s evacuation was the first weather-related evacuation in stadium history. 
NCAA policies require evacuation if lightning 
see GAME/page 5 


By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
The series of letdowns at Notre Dame stadium Satur­day were not just limited to weather and football. 
After the marching band’s halftime show was canceled due to severe weather, stu­dents were disappointed they could not watch what many call the “one constant” of Notre Dame home football games. 
When stadium public ad­dress announcer Mike Col­lins revealed over the loud­speaker that the show was not only delayed but can­celed, students began chant­ing, “Halftime show, halftime show.” 
“I thought there was a lot of support from students,” ju­nior band member John Bai­ley said. “It was … cool that they were calling for us to do the halftime show.” 
That cancellation wasn’t 


Belles look at effects of Internet 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
For seniors at St. Mary’s Col­lege, it’s hard to believe the freshman class probably never heard the sound of a dial-up tone. 
“I remember dial-up so clear­ly,” senior Kelly Golden said. “I also remember my family had to give us a time limit to be on the Internet so they could use the phone. It’s hard to believe that some students didn’t have to experience that.” 
“Dial-up is soooooooooo last century!” is just one of the points on the 2015 “Mindset List,” a catalog of the cultural touchstones of each incoming college class released annually by two Beloit College faculty members. 
Tom McBride, professor of English and Keefer professor of the Humanities at Beloit College in Beloit, Wis. and co-author, Emeritus Director of Public Af­fairs Ron Nief, have published these lists since 1998. 
McBride said the “Mindset List” is a set of facts that have always been true in the lifetime of a freshman class. 
While the “Mindset List” was originally created to help facul­ty become more aware of dated references, it soon became a catalog of the changing world­view of each new generation. 
Points on this year’s list, in­cluding, “There has always been an Internet ramp onto the information highway,” and, “Their school’s ‘blackboards’ have always been getting smarter” recently sparked dis­cussion on Saint Mary’s campus about the differences between the classes of 2012 and 2015. 
McBride and Nief labeled the Class of 2015 the “Internet Class.” 
Senior Briana Coyne said she believes the class of 2015’s generation depends on modern technology to stay informed. 
“I feel like with the class of 2015’s generation, they imme­diately turn to the computer, In­ternet, texting, just technology in general as their first source to get information and to talk to people,” she said. “They rely a little too heavily on the Inter­net and technology, but it varies case-to-case.” 
Some points on the class of 2012’s “Mindset List” included comments like, “IBM has never made typewriters” and “Caller ID has always been available on 
see SMC/page 5 
the band’s first letdown of the night. 
Bailey said that at halftime, about half the band members were in place when they were told to exit the field due to se­vere weather. 
Like everyone else in the stadium, the band found out about the decision over the 
see BAND/page 5 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER World Youth Day page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u South Bend Farmer’s Market page 10 u Men’s soccer split a decision page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW DID YOU SPEND YOUR TIME DURING THE RAIN DELAY? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Sara Felsenstein Matthew Christian Myers DeFranks Nicole Toczauer Conor Kelly Graphics Allan Joseph Dan Azic Scene Photo Ankur Chawla Pat Coveney Viewpoint Meghan Thomassen  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 65 LOW 56 


Iona Hughan  Hilary Johnson  Tyler Kehne  Annie O’Brien  Ben Hiles  Shannon Noonan  
sophomore  freshman  freshman  sophomore  year  freshman  
Lyons  Lyons  Alumni  Lyons  Alumni  Lyons  
“Frolicked in the  “Watched  “Ate dinner.”  “Had a porkchop  “Went to the  “Went to the  
rain and then  ‘Pirates of the  sandwich with  bookstore.”  dining hall.”  
faceplanted.  Carribean’ and  Sam Biel.”  
#ChasJhin.”  dried off.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Classroom in Transylvania taken over by bats 
BUCHAREST, Romania — There was no sign of Drac­ula, but students in Tran­sylvania did get a visit from dozens of bats that flapped through their classroom. 
The students at Csiky Gergely high school in the western Romanian city of Arad were about to take an exam Friday morning when they found bats flying around the room. Others ap­peared to be sleeping with their wings spread out on the floor. 
School official Mirela Al­descu told Romanian daily Adevarul that the creatures had probably flown in over­night through open win­dows. She says that rather than disturb them they took the exam in another class­room. 

3 foot long Python victim of bite from California man 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. — A snake bite in a north Sac­ramento neighborhood left the victim seriously hurt, but the injured party isn’t whom you’d expect. 
Police say a python un­derwent emergency surgery after a man allegedly bit the creature twice. 
Officers were called to Del Paso Heights around 6:30 
p.m. Thursday after a pass-er-by reported that a man was lying on the ground and may have been assaulted, according to Sgt. Andrew Pettit. When they arrived, they found David Senk, 54, still lying there — but police say he wasn’t the one who was assaulted. 
Another man approached officers and accused Senk of taking two bites out of his 3-foot pet python, Pettit said. 
Senk was arrested on sus­picion of unlawfully maim­ing or mutilating a reptile and booked on $10,000 bail. 
In a jailhouse interview with KXTL-TV on Friday, Senk said he had no memory of the incident and that he has a drinking problem. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The Student Internation­al Business Council will be holding their first meeting at 7 p.m. tonight in the Jor­dan Auditorium at the Men­doza College of Business. Students will  network with corporate leaders and gain experience working with top companies. All future meetings will be held in the Jordan Auditorium. 
Tomorrow from 12:30 to 2 p.m. the Kellogg Institute will be sponsoring the lec­ture “Defining Goodness in Business and Economics” by Georges Enderle, John T. Ryan Chair in International Business Ethics. The lecture will be held in room C103 of the Hesburgh Center for In­ternational Studies. 
The Department of Aerospace and Mechani­cal Engineering will host a seminar in Room 138 of DeBartolo Hall from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m. tomorrow. The lecture  is called, “Wolff’s Pretty Good Guess: Is Stiff­ness the Design Objective? Anatomic Variation in Bone Material Viscoelastic Prop­erties, Pre-stress, and Col-lagen-I D-spacing with Es­trogen Depletion.” 
A workshop for creative-writing in Portugeuse, “The Method is to Write the Unspeakable,” will be led by visiting writer Isa­bela Figueiredo from 4:30 to 6:30 p.m. tomorrow in room C104 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed in­formation about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 










HIGH 70 LOW 49 
HIGH 74 LOW 52 

HIGH 74 LOW 56 
HIGH 76 LOW 58 

Catholics gather to celebrate World Youth Day 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
For several Notre Dame stu­dents and faculty members, World Youth Day 2011 was a chance to unite with 1.5 mil­lion other Catholic youths — a reminder of the strength of the Catholic community. 
“One of the things we believe as Catholics is we are united in the body of Christ, but we rarely get to experience that,” Rev. Andrew Gawrych, C.S.C., Associate Director of the Office of Vocations, said. “To be there with people from all over the world is this tangible experi­ence, the fact that we really are not alone.” 
World Youth Day 2011, a week-long celebration of the Catholic faith with religious individuals from around the world, lasted from Aug. 16 to 21 in Madrid and included the participation of Pope Benedict XVI. 
After attending World Youth Day three times as a pilgrim, Gawrych returned to this sum­mer’s event for the first time as a priest. 
“World Youth Day is a big part of my spiritual journey. It was at World Youth Day that I re­ally accepted the Catholic faith as my own,” he said. “It’s so in­spiring to be in crowds of 1.5 million young people who are Catholic and love Christ and are trying to follow Him.” 
Gawrych said World Youth Day impacted him in the same way it did when he was a pil­grim. 
“I still came back completely fired up, completely energized to try to do my best to serve Christ and to bring his message of hope to the world,” he said. 
Junior Mary Wheaton was already studying abroad in An­gers, France, but she met up with the group traveling from the Diocese of Ft. Wayne-South Bend. 
“A friend of mine from Ireland went to World Youth Day in Syd­ney and raved about it,” Whea­ton said. “I’ve known for three years that I wanted to go to Ma­drid, and started my planning a year and a half ago to make it happen.” 
Wheaton said that while she attended all of the organized events, including concerts, talks and masses, the most memora­ble was the Stations of the Cross held in the streets of Madrid. 
“The way they organized it with religious art from all over Spain and the carrying of the World Youth Day cross by differ­ent groups of youths who have been affected by various hard­ships was beautiful,” she said. 
Gawrych said the Love and Life Centre where he worked was the largest home for Eng-lish-speaking pilgrims, host­ing about 80,000 individuals throughout the week. 
He said his favorite event of the week was the final mass with the Holy Father, which took place outdoors on the run­ways of an airport that was shut down for the weekend. 
“It starts Saturday night with a vigil and a prayer service, and the young people stay out there overnight, and in the morning there’s a big mass,” he said. 
Although she thought the planners were slightly disorga­nized in terms of planning the events, Wheaton agreed that the experience was a memora­ble one, and she would consider going to World Youth Day again in the future. 
“I had many good memories and met a lot of amazing peo­ple,” she said. “It really is some­thing I would recommend.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at           mflanag3@nd.edu 


Pope Benedict XVI waves to the crowd in Madrid, Spain, after the papal Mass during World Youth Day 2011. Catholic youth from around the world gathered to celebrate Catholic faith and community together from Aug. 16 to 21. 



Students seek away tickets 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Because of both the team rivalry and close proximity of Ann Arbor to Notre Dame, the University of Michigan away game is always popular with students.  
Acquiring student tickets for the game is not easy, though. 
That’s why the Student Union Board (SUB) held a ticket lottery Thursday for the Sept. 10 Notre Dame vs. Michi­gan game. 
Beginning at 12 p.m. Thurs­day, Notre Dame students could enter their name for the chance to purchase up to two student tickets at face value, or $85. 
SUB board manager junior Joseph Caparros said the lot­tery had around 2600 appli­cants, which meant the chance to get tickets was slim. 
Only 150 students were se­lected in the ticket lottery, with a total of 300 tickets available for purchase. 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
phones.” 
First year Emma Anderson agreed that her class fits the label of the “Internet Class.” 
“[My roommates and I] hang out in our room together, and don’t talk. We’re all just on Facebook,” she said. 
Anderson said she doesn’t think the classes of 2012 and 2015 are that different in the ways they use technology. 
“Four years isn’t that big of a difference,” Anderson said. 
McBride said there is not a substantial difference be­tween the two generations, but noted a few changes. 
“A huge difference is that 

“Students were given a lot of time on a Thursday and after 
[a] period of time … the win­ners were randomly generated and emailed,” Caparros said. 
Winning students could then purchase their tickets from the LaFortune box office Friday. 
Caparros said each winning student received the opportu­nity to buy two tickets. 
“The number of tickets avail­able to students does change from game to game,” he said. “It just so happens for the UM game, it’s a night game, it’s a rivalry, so of course a lot of students want to go.” 
SUB used a new process for the lottery this year and di­rected students to apply for tickets online. 
Junior Jimmy Walsh said the online application process was very straightforward. 
“I just clicked the link, filled in the blanks,” he said. “It couldn’t be any simpler.” 
Caparros said students have given SUB good feedback about the online application 
when the class of 2012 en­tered college, they were still an email generation,” McBride said. “It was not a generation that had discovered text mes­saging as the way to commu­nicate nearly as much as the class of 2015.” 
Senior Julie McGrail said the impersonality of communica­tion worsens each year. 
“There is lack of emotion with Internet, and I think that comes out in other areas of your life,” she said. “The class of 2012 definitely shows some signs of lack of emotion, but it is getting progressively worse as the years go by.” 
But Coyne said balance is key when it comes to the Inter­net and technology. 
“I think whether or not we become a lost generation process. 
“Before we had a physical process where students would come to the SUB office and we would swipe their cards with electronic swipers,” he said. “This is a lot easier for the stu­dents, and more convenient as well.” 
While very few students were able to get tickets for the University of Michigan game, Caparros said he thought most students understood the odds and remained positive. 
“They knew a lot of people were applying, and only a cer­tain number of tickets were available,” he said. “Of course people would be disappoint­ed.” 
Walsh did not get picked in the lottery, but he knew his chances were slim and was glad he tried anyway. 
“I mean, everybody wins the lottery every once and awhile,” he said. 
Contact anna Boarini at aboarini@nd.edu 
rests on how we handle all of this possible lack of emotion in the workforce,” she said. “I think our generation [the class of 2012] will be okay, just in the sense that we didn’t grow up immediately with In­ternet, whereas 2015 pretty much started out with Inter­net.  They’ve constantly been trained in that kind of mind­set.” 
Regardless of the differ­ences, McBride said, this is a remarkable time to live for all generations. 
“Every generation goes through changing times,” he said. “It’s a fascinating time to be alive, I don’t think there’s any question of that.” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 

Americans compete for jobs 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — The job market is even worse than the 9.1 percent unemployment rate suggests. 
America’s 14 million unem­ployed aren’t competing just with each other. They must also contend with 8.8 million other people not counted as unemployed — part-timers who want full-time work. 
When consumer demand picks up, companies will boost the hours of their part-timers before they add jobs, economists say. It means they have room to expand without hiring. 
And the unemployed will face another source of com­petition once the economy im­proves: Roughly 2.6 million people who aren’t counted as unemployed because they’ve stopped looking for work. Once they start looking again, they’ll be classified as unem­ployed. And the unemploy­ment rate could rise. 
Intensified competition for jobs means unemployment could exceed its historic norm of 5 percent to 6 percent for several more years. The non­partisan Congressional Bud­get Office expects the rate to exceed 8 percent until 2014. The White House predicts it will average 9 percent next year, when President Barack Obama runs for re-election. 


The jobs crisis has led Obama to give a major speech Thursday night to propose steps to stimulate hiring. Re­publican presidential candi­dates will likely confront the issue in a debate the night be­fore. 
Combined, the 14 million of­ficially unemployed; the “un­deremployed” part-timers who want full-time work; and “dis­couraged” people who  stopped looking make up 16.2 percent of working-age Americans. 
The Labor Department com­piles the figure to assess how many people want full-time work and can’t find it — a number the unemployment rate alone doesn’t capture. 
In a healthy economy, this broader measure of unemploy­ment stays below 10 percent. Since the Great Recession of­ficially ended more than two years ago, the rate has been 15 percent or more. 
The proportion of the work force made up of the part-timers has risen faster than unemployment has since the recession began in December 2007. 
Band 
continued from page 1 
loudspeaker system, band pres­ident senior Michael Schwind said.  
When the fans returned to the Stadium after the game’s first evacuation for the start of the second half, an announcement was made that the band would perform their halftime show at the end of the game, after they played the Alma Mater and the Notre Dame Fight Song. 
“When they told us that we were going to do halftime after the game, I was pumped,” ju­nior band member Julie Novak said. 
However, due to the second weather evacuation and the possibility of more storms, it was later announced that the halftime show was canceled, and the band would just per­form the Fight Song and the Alma Mater. 
“I don’t think they would have canceled the Alma Mater,” ju­nior band member Heidi Ryan 
Game 
continued from page 1 
strikes within 10 miles of the stadium. 
While the game was paused, the University made frequent announcements to make sure fans knew when severe weather conditions were approaching. 
Two hours later, the game resumed, only to be delayed again with 4:21 left on the clock in the fourth quarter. 
Sophomore Kelsey Han said she understood why the Uni­versity would want to take such safety precautions. 
“It was a smart move on the administration’s part to take precaution,” she said. “Besides, it felt good because then I could go back to my dorm and watch other compelling college games.” 
But she said it was a “slap in the face” to return to the stadium for a third time, only to watch the team lose to South Florida. 
“It felt like someone stabbed me with a knife and twisted it to give me a slow, painful death,” she said. 
Sophomore Wendy Hatch noticed the rise and fall of students’ enthusiasm during the game. 
“It started out really ener­getic,” she said. “Everyone was into it and cheering, but toward the end of the game everyone was getting really discour­aged.” 
said. “They had to do that. It’s such a tradition and people were expecting it.” 
The decision to cancel the show was made by Stadium per­sonnel after severe weather be­gan moving into the area, Ryan said. 
“It was so upsetting,” Novak said. “I like the songs this time. They were all pop songs. I want­ed to see the students’ reaction.” 
Schwind said the band cur­rently has “no idea” whether there will be a makeup show. 
Ryan said the band loves see­ing students’ reactions to their shows. 
“We put a lot of time into the halftime show,” Bailey said. “The circumstances of yester­day made it so we couldn’t per­form. It’s too bad.” 
But band members said they sensed immense support from students and fans Saturday. 
“We come and we play for the team, but we also play for the students,” Ryan said. “We really look for their approval.” 
Contact anna Boarini at aboarini@nd.edu 
Holtz 
continued from page 1 
and more awareness for its re­search projects will increase its participation in the world even further. 
“We have observed the alums from Our Lady’s institution,” Holtz said. “They go into the world and do marvelous things. When I went to [Notre Dame] a priest summed it up best. He said, ‘A student doesn’t come to Notre Dame to learn to make a living. He comes to Notre Dame to learn to make a life.’” 
The ambassador for research position will help the University communicate its message re­garding challenges faced by the world in need, Holtz said. 
“More and more you will see Notre Dame contributing to global challenges, discussing the great questions of our fu­tures, speaking out on impor­tant issues,” he said. “I think you will be extremely proud of the progress Notre Dame will make in this area.” 
Notre Dame will not compro­mise any of its current stan­dards to build its research ini­tiatives, Holtz said. 
“We do not have to sacrifice greatness in our undergraduate program ... to achieve greatness in research,” Holtz said. 
“Whatever Notre Dame does, they do it to the best of their ability. However, what’s made Notre Dame great has been be­cause of the unselfishness and the generosity of the people who have made a commitment to the University and its mission and value.” 
For Hatch, the inclement weather made the loss more difficult. 
“No one ever feels good about losing, but it definitely made it harder after it was raining,” she said. “The fact that it was a six hour game makes it all the harder to lose.”
 Junior Ryan Oldenburg said he was expecting much more from the football team. 
“In short, I was frustrated and surprised,” he said. “I was surprised that we had all the time to prepare and I thought we would have a better show­ing, especially against a team like South Florida.” 
But Oldenburg is confident in Notre Dame’s ability to have a good season. 
“We have had a slow start but we must come off of this loss,” Oldenburg said. “The next couple of games are crucial.” 
Hagist said the disappoint­ing loss did not ruin the unique atmosphere of Notre Dame Stadium. 
“It was an amazing experi­ence,” he said. “I did not expect it to be as mentally and physi­cally exhausting as it was, as I had to keep up my gameday spirit for seven hours.” 
Han added the stadium main­tained its special atmosphere despite the dip in morale. 
“It had the ‘we’re-here-for­our-team’ type of feel to it, as students had faith and hope,” she said. 
Contact adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 

LIBYA 

Foreigners fight accusations from rebels 
Associated Press 
TRIPOLI— A Ghanaian teach­er cowers in his house, certain he will be grabbed at a check­point because of his dark skin. Armed rebels detain 19 Ukrai­nian cooks and oil workers for several days on unsupported claims that they are really snip­ers for Moammar Gadhafi. 
They’re among thousands of foreigners caught in a web of suspicion as rebel fighters pur­sue the remnants of Gadhafi’s forces. Gadhafi hired some foreigners as mercenaries, but many others held ordinary jobs in Libya, and the rebels who ousted the Gadhafi regime from most of Tripoli last month often seem to make little effort to tell them apart. 
“How can we be snipers?” cook Maksim Shadrov asked angrily at a training center for oil workers in Tripoli where he, his wife and 17 other Ukraini­ans were being held. 
“They are old. She is a wom­an. We are not snipers,” he said, pointing to some members of his group. Even a rebel com­mander conceded that he had no evidence to the contrary, but held them nonetheless, de­spite a diplomat’s efforts to free them. 
In rebel-run Tripoli, people with dark skin — even Libyans 
— are at risk because Gadhafi is known to have recruited sol­diers from sub-Saharan Africa. 
“Every black is a target,” said Tony Biney, the Ghanaian teacher, who stayed home with his wife for two weeks before risking a trip to church. 
There have been widespread arrests and frequent abuse of migrant workers since the rebels seized Tripoli late last month, Human Rights Watch said Sunday, but did not give an estimate of the number of detainees. The group said the clampdown created “a grave sense of fear among the city’s African population.” 
A rebel official estimated that some 5,000 people have been detained since rebels seized Tripoli. At one makeshift deten­tion camp, conditions for Liby­an detainees were acceptable, but sub-Saharan Africans were held in overcrowded cells with a putrid stench, Human Rights Watch said. The detainees com­plained of a lack of water and poor sanitation. 
The detentions have created an image problem for the rebel leadership, which relies heav­ily on Western support and has pledged to build a new Libya based on the rule of law, in contrast to Gadhafi’s brutal re­gime. 
The harsh treatment could also cause problems for the rebels as they attempt to re­build Libya’s economy, which has depended heavily on for­eign workers to keep up with its oil boom. However, the draw of steady, well-paid employment may in the end be stronger than the fear of mistreatment. 
Before the six-month civil war that brought down Gad­hafi, hundreds of thousands of foreigners filled jobs Libyans didn’t want or weren’t trained for, including in construction, oil and health services. Data is sketchy, but some estimates say at least 1.5 million foreigners worked in Libya, a country of just 6 million. 
The workers are mainly Afri­cans, Asians and Eastern Euro­peans, lured from economically depressed countries by Libya’s relatively high wages. 
Hundreds of thousands of them fled Libya after the out­break of fighting in February, many complaining at the time that they had not been paid or were robbed by Gadhafi troops on the way to the border. Others were either unable or unwilling to leave. 
On Sunday, Human Rights Watch called on the rebels to stop arbitrary arrests and to set up a system to review cases of people alleged to be merce­naries. The New York-based group said it has evidence that the Gadhafi regime recruited hundreds of mercenaries from Chad, Sudan and other coun­tries but noted that cannot serve the basis for mass arrests. 
The rebel leadership “has le­gitimate concerns about unlaw­ful mercenaries and violent ac­tivity, but it can’t simply arrest dark-skinned men just in case they think they might be merce­naries,” said Sarah Leah Whit-son of Human Rights Watch. 
The rebels’ National Tran­sitional Council has called on fighters not to abuse prison­ers and says those accused of crimes will receive fair trials. 
In one sign of possible change, an official for the U.N.’s main refugee agency, Sam Cheung, said several dozen Somalis were released to his group Sunday. 




Tea party shapes Republican primary race 
Associated Press 
BERLIN, N.H.  — The tea par­ty is forcefully shaping the race for the 2012 GOP presidential nomination as candidates par­rot the movement’s language and promote its agenda while jostling to win its favor. 
That’s much to the delight of Democrats who are working to paint the tea party and the eventual Republican nominee as extreme. 
“The tea party isn’t a diver­sion from mainstream Republi­can thought. It is within main­stream Republican thought,” Mitt Romney told a New Hamp­shire newspaper recently, de­fending the activists he’s done little to woo, until now. 
The former Massachusetts governor is starting to court them more aggressively as polls suggest he’s being hurt by weak support within the movement, whose members generally favor rivals such as Texas Gov. Rick Perry and Minnesota Rep. Mi­chele Bachmann. 
Romney highlighted an out­sider image at a Tea Party Ex­press rally Sunday night in Con­cord. Romney may have run for office multiple times, but he has only won one election. 
“I haven’t spent my whole life in politics,” he said. “As a mat­ter of fact, of the people run­ning for office, I don’t know that there are many that have less years in politics than me.” 
Romney’s shift is the latest evidence of the big imprint the tea party is leaving on the race. 
Such overtures come with risks, given that more Ameri­cans are cooling to the tea party’s unyielding tactics and bare-bones vision of the federal government. 
After Washington’s debt showdown this summer, an As­sociated Press-GfK poll found that 46 percent of adults had an unfavorable view of the tea party, compared with 36 per­cent just after last November’s election. 
It could give President Barack Obama and his Democrats an opening should the Republican nominee be closely aligned with the tea party. 
Yet even as the public begins to sour on the movement, Rom­ney and other GOP candidates are shrugging off past tea party disagreements to avoid upset­ting activists. 
That includes Perry, who faced a tea party challenger in his most recent election for gov­ernor and who has irked some tea partyers so much that they are openly trying to undercut his candidacy. Instead of fight­ing back, Perry often praises the tea party. 
In his book “Fed Up!” Perry wrote, “We are seeing an ener­getic and important push by the American people — led in part by the tea party movement — to give the boot to the old-guard Washington establishment who no longer represent us.” 
There’s a reason for the cozi­ness. Voters who will choose the GOP nominee identify closely with the movement. 
A recent AP-GfK survey showed that 56 percent of Re­publicans and GOP-leaning people identified themselves as tea party supporters. Also, Republicans who back the tea party place a higher priority than other Republicans on the budget deficit and taxes, issues at the center of the nomination contest. 
Last year, the tea party inject­ed the GOP with a huge dose of enthusiasm, helping it reclaim the House and end one-party rule in Washington. These days, they are firing up the campaign trail in early-voting Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina. 



It’s little wonder, then, why many of the White House as­pirants are popping up at ral­lies by the Tea Party Express, a Sacramento, Calif.-based po­litical committee that’s in the midst of a 30-city bus tour. That tour ends Sept. 12 in Tampa, Fla., where the group will team with CNN to sponsor a nation­ally televised GOP debate. Every Republican candidate faring strongly in the polls is set to participate. 
Five months before the first voting in the nomination fight, a Gallup survey of Republicans and GOP-leaning independents last week found Perry pulling strong support from voters who identify themselves as tea party supporters, with 35 percent, followed by Romney and Bach­mann at 14 percent. 
That may help explain why Romney decided to speak Sun­day at a Tea Party Express rally in New Hampshire and appear Monday at a forum in South Carolina hosted by GOP Sen. Jim DeMint, who oversees a po­litical committee that has sup­ported tea party candidates. 
Rather than anointing any candidate, DeMint said Sunday on ABC’s “This Week” that he’s looking to see which one “re­ally catches the attention and inspires the average American, who has gotten involved with politics and the political pro­cess.” 
Perry, Bachmann and others in the 2012 planned to appear at DeMint’s event. 
Aside from the presidential race, tea party leaders have no less than 100 congressional pri­maries in their sights as they look to expand their influence on Capitol Hill. 
Whatever happens, the party is leaving a stamp on the presi­dential race, and Democrats hope it will last. 


Irene destroys utilities, disrupts Northeast 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — Some power com­panies in the East are going on the defensive against criticism over the tens of thousands of lingering power outages nearly a week after Hurricane Irene swept up the coast. 
NStar, a major utility in Mas­sachusetts, took out a full-age ad in Friday’s edition of the Boston Globe with the headline “Goodnight, Irene.” 
“Being ready for Mother Na­ture is one thing,” the ad read. “Responding to her is another. We know trees will come down. We didn’t know which ones.” 
As of Friday afternoon, NStar said fewer than 3,000 customers in Massachusetts lacked power. Another big state utility, Na­tional Grid, expected fewer than 5,000 homes in the dark at the end of the day. 
Utilities in many spots have been criticized by politicians and homeowners who say re­sponse times were slow and out­reach efforts to customers poor. The companies have noted that Irene was an unusual weather event and that crews have been working around the clock. 
The utility, which has some 778,000 customers in the Dis­trict of Columbia and neighbor­ing regions, considered running a large ad in Sunday’s editions of The Washington Post, thank­ing customers for their under­standing during the storm. 
In New Jersey, the hurricane made its second landfall and sent rivers over banks, Gov. Chris Christie says the state Board of Public Utilities will hold hearings on the perfor­mance of state electric compa­nies after Hurricane Irene. 
Jersey Central Power & Light will cooperate with any review of its performance, spokesman Ron Morano said, noting that the company is still focused on restoring service. 
In Rhode Island, a state sena­tor has called for an investiga­tion, and a Massachusetts law­maker plans to file legislation that would require utilities to rebate customers two days of service for every one day they are without power. 
Connecticut continues to be among the states hit hardest by power outages, with more than 170,000 customers still go­ing without as of Friday. That’s down from a peak of 830,000 af­ter the storm hit Sunday. 
Virginia still had about 90,000 residents without power as of Friday, down from more than a million, and fewer than 13,000 North Carolina residents lacked power. 
Irene has been blamed for at least 46 deaths in 13 states from Florida northward, along with several in the Caribbean. 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, September 5, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Never too old 
My quad in Lyons Hall is tiny. 

My roommates and I slaved over the L-shaped configuration for our furni­ture to conserve space. We perfected our storage system for maximum effi­ciency, squeezing an obscene amount of clothing and blan­kets and pillows and boxes into a very crammed amount of space. 
We have no air conditioning. Our dorm’s work-out equipment might ac­tually pose a safety hazard to those try­ing to exercise. We will blow a fuse if we use a hair dryer in the room, and I have yet to see a fully functional sink in this building. 
Despite these pitfalls, we love our room. We can also all agree the glory of 243 Lyons centers on one item — the VCR. A VCR may be considered an antiquated piece of technology. Video tapes are practically ancient. Yet we, college juniors, are the proud owners of a much-loved, much-used VCR. 
The VCR surfaced from a grandfa­ther’s basement and was, at first, an object of curiosity. Now, we’ve built a collection straight from the 1990s that now fills an entire shelf in our common room. Our respective basements yielded “Aladdin,” “Snow White,” “Beauty and the Beast,” “Anastasia,” “Pocahontas,” “Sleeping Beauty,” “Hercules,” “Mulan” and more. 
From the first time we popped “The Lion King” into the machine and pressed “Play,” we were hooked. These blast-from-the-past Disney movies became a staple in Lyons Hall. After a particularly rough day, we turned to Jasmine and Genie. When we needed to procrastinate during finals week, we blinked back tears as Mufasa fell under the wildebeests’ hooves. When we needed to energize ourselves, we belted out the words to “I’ll Make a Man Out of You” with the handsome Capt. Li Shang. 
Maybe we are childish. Maybe we should leave our animated heroes of the past behind and focus on acting our own ages. Maybe we should disregard these films as fond memories from our childhoods. 
Yet the ancient artifact will never be too old for our room, and we will never be too old for it. We still root for Hercu­les as he faces the Hades’ monsters. We still melt just a little bit as the hand­some (albeit animated) John Smith falls for Pocahontas. We still cheer when the Beast defeats Gaston and his ego. 
We learned to see beyond first im­pressions and to appreciate the sacrific­es our families make for us. We learned the power of friendship. We learned to fight with unfailing resolution for what we believe, to choose between what is right and what is easy. 
When I walk into to my perfect quad, I find the VCR sitting on the shelf. 
I also find the friends and the memo­ries that made this dorm a home. At the end of the day, that is what makes our tiny quad, with its non-existent air conditioning and its pocket-sized room, absolutely perfect because magic, in the form of fairy tales or friendship, exists.  
Megan Doyle can be reached at mdoyle11@nd.edu The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Virtue as an obligation, 
not a choice 
Over the past 10 days there has been fighting, not over the urgent business and weighty content of a political speech and debate, but rather the scheduling of said speech and debate. 
Football fans John Sandberg followed the sto­ry of a running Guest Columnist back threaten­ing not to work (that is, take the ball and run) because the millions he previously earned for playing the game (er, doing his job) was insufficient. Many observed the restless 
sociopolitical climate of Libya and others surveyed the footage of the damage done by the flooding of Tropical Storm Irene. 
One month ago, a famine in Somalia unfolded with intensity equal to that of the tumult in Libya or the storms that wreaked havoc on the Atlantic coast. 
We followed Anderson Cooper through the stifling cluster of shoddy tents that formed the largest refugee camp in the world. Most arresting of all in these dis­heartening broadcasts was our realiza­tion of the inability to deliver relief. 
For each instance in which we were informed of humanitarian agencies accepting money, we were equally in­formed of the grim prospects of that aid actually arriving, due to a blockade en­acted by militants in the region. Thugs with guns were locking food away from the starving. And we were half a world away, unable to stop it. 
Soon enough, news shifted to a Repub­lican straw poll in Iowa. The economy overtook headlines in Washington. Anderson Cooper was back in New York. Frank Gore was still playing football in San Francisco, and still upset with his $6.9 million. 
Unfortunately, the end of a news cycle does not the termination of a crisis 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

make. The UN Refugee Agency regards malnutrition of one percent of children in an area to be “alarming.” As of Sept. 2, one refugee camp along the Ethiopia-Somalia border screened 19 percent of arriving children as being afflicted with severe acute malnutrition. The crisis rages on — broadcast into our homes or not. 
For clarity, I’ll first state that I do not believe Washington is the cause of a humanitarian disaster, nor do I feel job creation is a petty issue. 
I do not believe Anderson Cooper prays on crises for journalistic purposes. (In fact, I find Cooper to be one of the most sincere reporters in his business). I do not underestimate the significance of the uprisings in Arab nations, nor do I take lightly the effect that Irene will have for years to come. 
I am not lamenting the revolving door that is the modern media news cycle. De­spite the absurdity of annual preseason holdouts, I am not asserting animos­ity against Frank Gore or the National Football League (big things coming from Cutler and Da Bears in 2011 … ). 
However, we cannot allow the ma­jor issues that Somalia presents fizzle away. The matters must be confronted, not folded into oblivion like the story itself. There should be no other option. As a college student familiar with the tired challenge to “change the world for the better,” my hope is to persuade you with a more practical approach to our education. It may mean nothing, it may motivate someone for a day, or it may do something else. In any case, here goes nothing. 
If Notre Dame students don’t alleviate the world’s poverty and injustice, who will? This is not a rhetorical question. For most of us who believe this is the greatest university in the world, there is no other answer. In every discipline, there should be a motivating sense of the virtue that Provost Thomas Burish illustrated as “value that advances the cause of the human family.” Poverty can be abolished by those who truly buy into this message. 
The virtue is seen in international re­lations and political science majors who examine the factors that let neglectful government maintain power. 
It is seen in students of science and medicine striving to unearth better treatments. It is seen in the desire of engineers and architects who make the world a more livable place. It is in the humanities students who study the effect of language and culture in a troubled world. 
For those rolling eyes that are still reading this — thanks for sticking around! I ask you not to focus on the voice or the clichéd message, but the benefactors of the message. I don’t expect you to approach your work with renewed ambition because a no-name Observer columnist encouraged you to do so. 
But I ask you to consider the virtue that this school stands upon and to think of those who desperately await the re­sults of that virtue. Once this is done, we will not be discouraged or hopeless or dejected. Rather, we will be persistent, resolute and unwavering in knowing that there is not a more qualified assem­bly to attack the problems than us. 
John is a sophomore English major from Littleton, Colo. He is a fan of the Chicago Cubs, Dave Matthews Band and good Mexican food. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily that of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I say that a man must be certain of his morality for the simple reason that he has to suffer for it.” 
G. K. Chesterton 
English author 


WEEKLY POLL 

How long did you stay at the ND vs. USF game? 
Game? What game? My view was great ... from Reckers Came back after every delay Never left the concourse 
Vote by Thursday 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Monday, September 5, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Debt ceiling blues 
This past summer offered no short­age of entertainment — the NBA Cham­pionship, the Casey Anthony Trial, a new season of “The Jersey Shore” and the final Harry Potter movie. 
Alongside these, less entertain­ing, but still critical negotiations over America’s debt ceiling took place. For those who may have spent their sum­mer away from politics, below is an explanation of what happened. 
The “debt ceiling” is a term used for the maximum amount of debt that America’s Treasury can issue at any time. Congresses under the control of both parties have procedurally passed bills raising the debt ceiling over the past century. Moreover, presidents from both parties have routinely signed bills raising the debt ceiling into law. According to politifact.com, a non­partisan fact checking service, the debt ceiling was raised seventeen times under Ronald Reagan, four times under Bill Clinton and seven times under George W. Bush. 
Raising the debt ceiling is very im­portant because it ensures the Ameri­can Treasury can fully meet its obliga­tions to creditors, federal employees, Social Security beneficiaries, soldiers and many others. If the Treasury does not make full and timely payments to these groups, America would be considered “in default” on its obliga­tions. A default would lead to a sudden contraction of government spending (roughly 40%), a loss of confidence in the American economy, higher interest rates, lowered home values and a stock market decline. These factors, amidst an already weak economy and major economic problems in Europe, could push America back into recession. 
The debt ceiling was last raised in February 2010 from $12.3 trillion to $14.3 trillion. This debt ceiling in­crease would only last the American government until spring 2011, when the debt ceiling would need to be increased once again. Even though the vote to raise the debt ceiling has historically been procedural, the debt ceiling raise scheduled for spring 2011 was different due to the emergence of the Tea Party. The Tea Party gained major influence in the Republican Party during the Obama Presidency because of its energized opposition to Democratic initiatives and contribu­tion to a strong Republican turnout in the 2010 midterm elections. The Tea Party’s influence shaped the new Republican platform on the debt ceil­ing — the debt ceiling would be raised only if it was coupled with a deal that included major spending cuts and no tax increases. The Republicans would not compromise on this position, even if it meant an American default. The Tea Party had suddenly changed the debt ceiling vote from procedural to questionable. 

On May 16th, 2011, the debt ceiling was “hit” and legislators still had not reached an agreement. Even though the Treasury could not borrow, it was able to meet the obligations of the government by borrowing from government funds and suspending investments. The Treasury indicated that America would default if the debt ceiling was not raised when these mea­sures were exhausted Aug. 2. 
Throughout June and July, negotia­tions continued over the debt ceiling, but no agreement was reached. As summer wore on, analysts began to consider the growing likelihood of an American default and the devastat­ing economic consequences a default would create. But as July ended, the leaders of both parties drafted a bipar­tisan debt ceiling deal that received major opposition from liberals and conservatives alike. Even with this bi­partisan opposition, the deal, titled the “Budget Control Act of 2011”, passed the House on Aug. 1 and the Senate on August 2. President Obama signed the bill into law Aug. 2, just hours before a default.  
The Budget Control Act of 2011 has two parts: First, the bill raises the debt ceiling by $1 trillion this year and an­other $1 trillion in early 2012. Second, the bill reduces discretionary spending by $1 trillion over the next decade and charges a bipartisan committee of leg­islators with finding another $1.5 tril­lion in cuts by the end of 2011. If this committee does not reach an agree­ment, or Congress does not approve the committee’s agreement, $1.2 trillion will be automatically cut from defense and Medicare over the next decade. Legislators punted on the core issues of the debate: taxes and entitlements, planting the seeds for a larger political debate after the 2012 election. 
The debt ceiling debate showcased for the American people the embar­rassingly poor relationship between the Democrats and Republicans. This rift, along with the weak economy and grim prospects for the future has forced many Americans to ask, “Are our best days behind us?” Only the future can answer this question. But every American, from small-govern­ment conservatives to big-government liberals, can agree that for America’s best days to be ahead of us, America’s worst political days must be behind us. Maybe America’s leaders will come to realize this as well. 
Adam Newman is a junior Finance major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily that of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

Political discourse about presenting the facts 
Mark said he would buy the textbooks himself before the hurricane strikes. He strolled through the streets of New Brunswick, thinking about all the excitement the new semester would bring. He entered the bookstore and proceeded promptly to the basement, and then to the third aisle. He snatched up his French textbook, took a quick glimpse at the price tag and began to frown — $148.35. Shortly thereafter he learned that the textbook contains a one-time online access code and thus cannot be resold. Mark let out a big sigh, and Mark Kim slowly and hesitantly walked back upstairs. 
It may be a little peculiar that I, Mark Kim, am unhappy Daily Targum about buying a textbook. Being the big nerd that I am, I have a tendency to hoard books. I must have spent close to $4,000 buying the textbooks — yes, textbooks — sitting on my not-so-little bookshelf. Though a majority of them are mathematics textbooks, plenty are at best loosely con­nected to my field of study. Then why must I, a lover of textbooks, cringe whenever I buy my textbooks for many of my classes? 
The answer is that many of them are simply not worthwhile purchases. Indeed, the state of the textbook market is atrocious. The prose in science textbooks is not human-readable; in many humanities textbooks, the prose is marred by low-quality filler text surrounding the read-this-and-nothing-else boldfaced sentences. Each new edition of an already horrendous textbook brings no improvement, but bears only a minor permutation in section and page numbers, so that it can be force-fed to new students. 
The prices are reaching heights every year, yet the highly specialized editorial staff who supposedly justifies this inflation lets even the most inane mistakes slip through the cracks. One cannot shake off the feeling that the powers that be are con­spiring against him to pay an inordinate amount of money for a book he will never want to read. 
All is well, perhaps, if the professor actually makes you use the textbook. All is well if you get to sell back the textbook at a reasonable price. The problem persists, however, even when money is not the issue. The abundance of low-quality text­books affects the lower-division education as well, when the students are getting the textbooks “for free.” The textbooks are so poorly written that many students never come to accept the simple idea of learning by reading. Every idea must be explained; another generation of people whose educational experiences cease completely at graduation is engendered. 
Can you, dear reader, imagine a classic textbook, read by generation after genera­tion? Most likely not, I would imagine: The typical textbooks you have in mind will perhaps run through a few more editions and sink forever into oblivion. There are such things, however, as classic textbooks. Take “A Course of Pure Mathematics” by the British mathematician G. H. Hardy, for example 
Originally written in 1908, it is still one of the most widely read introductory col­lege level mathematics textbook. College mathematics curricula changed substan­tially since then, and “Pure Mathematics” cannot be used as a textbook for a course anymore. Even so, its popularity among students of mathematics has not faded. 
“Pure Mathematics” is the product of a time when there was barely a textbook market to speak of. Since there was no such occupation as a textbook writer, each textbook was written by a writer. It would appear the same standard of prose that essay writers and novelists adhere to was expected of a textbook writer. As such, a substantial number of old textbooks were well written, and it was not uncommon for several generations to share the same basic textbooks. 
The human knowledge is expanding more rapidly than ever, and perhaps it is impossible for different generations to use the same textbooks. Each will require different kinds of knowledge, and new textbooks will have to be written. I do believe however, that the textbook writers of our time could learn a thing or two from their predecessors. 
As the legendary mathematical expositor Paul Halmos wrote, “Mathematical writing is ephemeral, to be sure, but if you want to reach your audience now, you must write as if for the ages.” Ideally, textbook writers of any field should follow this dictum. 
This column originally ran in the Sept. 2 edition of the Daily Targum, the newspaper serving Rutgers University. 



Walk around Notre Dame’s campus on any given day and you will often hear cries of, “South Bend is so boring,” or “There is nothing to do here!” But despair no more, fellow Domers. There ac­tually are things to do in South Bend beyond go­ing to Five Guys and O’Rourke’s. If you’re willing to be a little adven­turous and try something new, South Bend is waiting to entertain you. 
Since the busy life of a Notre Dame student doesn’t leave much time for digging through all of South Bend’s offerings, though, Scene is here to help you. Turn to the center of The Observer for Things to do in South Bend. 

The South Bend Farmer’s Market is a popular destina­tion for locals, but unfortu­nately remains far off the radar for most Notre Dame students. I implore you to change this immediately. The Farmer’s Market, which runs year-round, is both a source for amazing food, produce and other delicacies and is an exciting outing for even the pickiest Domer. 
After hunting for a good parking spot in the inevitably crowded parking lot, your senses will be assailed by an array of the finest local produce around. Don’t let the crowds deter you . the large number of daily visitors is merely a testament to how truly wonderful the South Bend Farmer’s Market is. 
Navigate around your fellow browsers to take a closer look at the brightly colored pep­pers and creamy, homemade gelato. The Farmer’s Market features a little something for everyone, from the little kids with their gourmet smooth­ies, to the families enjoying a meal in the always-packed Farmer’s Market Café. 
The venue offers more than just food. Local artisans sell their jewelry and clothes between Indiana-based winemakers and collections of antiques. 
But if food is what you’re after, the Farmer’s Market of­fers the freshest locally grown produce, home-grown teas and spices, fresh deli meats, homemade bread and pizza dough, soft pretzels baked in front of you and any other culinary treat your heart (and stomach) could desire. 
Take a group of friends to the market and scour the vast selection to create a dinner menu that will taste gourmet. Or spend a Saturday browsing the selections while chowing down on freshly baked muf­fins and warm ciabatta bread. 
Martin’s and Meijer may offer the fruits, vegetables and other items that you want at any time of the year, but a hallmark of the Farmer’s Market is its locally grown, seasonal produce. Sure, you can’t get fresh strawberries year round. But when they are there, you’re guaranteed to get the best tasting strawber­ries you’ve ever had. 
Shopping for seasonal pro­duce will also open your eyes to a whole new world of fruits and vegetables. Butternut squash may not have looked that tempting at the grocery store, but when you see the lo­cally grown selection this fall, you just might have a change of heart. 
The South Bend Farmer’s Market is really just a fun place to go. It has a laid back atmosphere that is perfect for browsing with your friends on 
SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 

a Saturday morning. 
The South Bend Farmer’s Market is located at 1105 Northside Boulevard. Just hop in your car and head south on Notre Dame Avenue. Turn left at the river and follow it the rest of the way to this food­lover’s haven. 
The market is open year-round from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. Tuesday, Thursday and Friday and 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. Saturday. 
With an away game coming up this weekend, what better way to prepare for a nighttime game watch than to pick up some ingredients for guaca­mole, veggie dip, homemade pizzas and all your other football-watching necessi­ties? The South Bend Farmer’s Market has got you covered. 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 



Monday, September 5, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

Weekends are like foam on a latte, chocolate in a brioche or bubbles in champagne. They are simultaneously a part of our accomplishment-driven week and its most defining and antici­pated element. Oh, the fun of dancing, primping and gener­al relaxation. There is nothing like dedi­cating yourself to you and you alone as books rest comfort­ably on your shelf and Monday’s cares seem miles away. I thought I knew how to properly ring in the weekend before I came to Notre Dame’s hallowed halls. I foolishly thought hors d’oeuvres in Paris by the Eiffel Tower, a few evenings at Maxim’s, aperitivi by Florence’s Ponte Vecchio and a Eurostar trip to London could have prepared me for football week­ends. Darlings, I freely admit . I had no idea. 
Tailgates, cheers, mad pep rallies, fans who put new meaning into the word loyalty, not to mention the most amazing football game after-parties give European parties a serious run for their money.  Anyone who has seen me watching one of these prized football games knows this fashionista is clue­less about the game. I have no idea what a sneak, extra point, block, rush or field goal is, and quite frankly, I am too overwhelmed to ask. Should you find the need to educate me please feel free to get in touch (although I make no promises as to how much information I’ll be able to retain). 
Due to my lack of general derstanding about 
actual point of weekend, the most impor­tant part of 
my planning revolves around what I’m go­ing to wear to all these events and less on who scores 
from European experiences to athletic cel­ebrations this side of the At­
lantic? Fellow style mavens, throw open those closet doors and break out your LBD. Here comes the little black dress to the rescue. 
The LBD is the one item every closet dies to have. Its most redeeming char­acteristic is its versatility. As Coco Chanel knew when she made the color a de rigueur part of her collection, its dramatic nature complements every­one. Moreover, in contemporary fashion circles the LBD can be worn in abso­lutely any style. An Audrey Hepburn Breakfast at Tiffany’s sheath, a floor length Grecian gown or a strapless knee length dress can take you from your office reception to a dinner with friends and family. A mini version of the dress, in halter, spaghetti strap or one shoul­der form, is the perfect spice to add to any after-the-game fiesta. Just think, 



you won’t have to worry about beer or other beverage spills ruin­ing your outfit. You’re wearing black, so no one will ever know! 
Just remem­ber the LBD’s goal . flatter­ing your figure. This is best accom­plished by stay­ing away from ruffles and oth­er fluff. Stream­line your look, and 
if you do want detail, go for lace or cut­outs instead. While it might be tempt­ing to keep those jeans and the coveted “Shirt” on for evening jaunts after the game, let’s take inspiration from those lovely ladies sashaying around our study abroad cities. Electrify fellow Notre Dame fans next gameday with your own fashion moves off the field. After all, who said only football play­ers can have all the fun and attention? With the LBD, we’ll show them how to play in style. 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Felicia Caponigri at fcaponigri@nd.edu 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Oklahoma to Pac-? 
This is the first instance of a new Observer feature. A series of 10 Observer sportswriters will have columns appear in this space on a bi-weekly rotation. Hopefully some of these writers will grab your attention, and you’ll know when and where to find more of their thoughts. 
Rumors insist Oklahoma will be a conference rival of USC’s by the end of Septem­ber. At the least, Oklahoma State would likely join the Soon­ers in the Pac­[insert number here]. The Big 12 would be down to at most eight teams, ironic considering that is where it started, and, for that matter, thrived. 
From there, who knows what could happen. The Big “12” could disappear entirely, dissolving into some com­bination of the Big East, the Pac-16 and independents. The Big East would become even more of a basketball bonan­za, theoretically picking up schools such as Kansas, Kan­sas State and Missouri. The Big 10, already at 12 teams, could expand to 14, though it currently insists it is fine with its dozen. 
Texas and Notre Dame would hold the keys to the apocalypse, deciding to stand independent or join one of these burgeoning conferences. 
But really, who cares? 
No really, why do we care? 
Tradition? Ha. That went out the window when the BCS came about and handed the most important decisions of the college football season over to computers. 
As soon as the Rose Bowl, my grandfather’s favorite sporting event each year, masqueraded as the BCS National Championship Game in 2002, tradition became a myth. Miami in the Rose Bowl? Five years and two days after his death — he died during the 1997 Rose Bowl — I am sure the Army veteran rolled over in his grave at the thought of The U in “The Grandaddy of ‘Em All.” 
Oh, we care about realign­ment because of the preser­vation of rivalries? Oh relax, those will continue in some form or another. Maybe Texas and Oklahoma no longer meet every season. That might not be a bad thing — did anybody care about the Red River Shootout last year? Not in the least. 

But imagine, if they were to meet in the Rose Bowl, Oklahoma representing the Pac-100 and Texas a member of the Big Ten, but really 14. That match-up would be the biggest in the rivalry’s history. That year’s Super Bowl would not get as much media love. Thus is the power of college football. 
And it is that power which is spurring this re­alignment. A year ago col­lege football fans chewed their fingernails down to their knuckles with worry, anticipation and specula­tion about the shifting landscape. The resulting moves caused as many waves as a field goal in the Atlantic Ocean would. Colo­rado and Utah to the Pac­12 and Nebraska to the Big Ten? No offense intended to the Big Red or the Buffs, but — yawn. 
Now, college football fans are too engrossed in this season — rightfully so con­sidering how baffling the opening weekend was — to pay proper attention to the newest round of shifts. 
University presidents, athletic directors and foot­ball coaches are going to execute this switch under their fans’ noses. Imagine Boise State and its pseudo-Statue of Liberty play circa the 2007 Fiesta Bowl: Look right, go left. That is the decision-maker play call right now. Understandably so. 
Understandably so be­cause we should not care. This realignment is inevi­table. Money wins. Money always wins. 
We, the fans, have given college football the right to change its ways because we gave it as much attention as we do. And we aren’t about to stop. 
As long as there still is college football, we’ll keep watching. The Pac-250 will make some more money off us, and Texas will rule the Lone Star State with even more authority. 
These aren’t the worst things in the world, as long as there still is college football. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MLB 

Giants stumble badly at home 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — That late-season magic that propelled the Giants into last year’s playoffs is missing. It’s in the other dugout, with the Diamondbacks. 
In a crucial series the reign­ing World Series champions considered must-win, they fal­tered again. At home before a sellout crowd. With runners in scoring position. When they took an early lead. 
Willie Bloomquist(notes) hit a go-ahead two-run triple after Ryan Roberts’(notes) solo hom­er tied it in the eighth, and NL West-leading Arizona extended its division cushion to a season-best seven games with a 4-1 win over the stumbling Giants on Sunday. 
The Giants realized they needed to take two of three this weekend to keep their faint playoff hopes alive, but instead lost the final two. 
“We’re still breathing. We’re hanging by a thread,” San Fran­cisco manager Bruce Bochy said. “We know we’re running out of time, there’s no question about that. I thought it was criti­cal we take the series. We all know it. We didn’t.” 
The Diamondbacks finally de­livered for Daniel Hudson(notes) (15-9) when they got to All-Star Ryan Vogelsong(notes) in the eighth. Until then, Cody Ross’(notes) first-inning home run had held up. Hudson won his third straight start, helping Arizona (80-60) leave the Bay Area for Colorado in a comfort­able spot with 22 games to go. 
Hudson allowed one run on three hits, struck out five and walked one in seven innings. David Hernandez(notes) went 1-2-3 in the eighth and J.J. Putz(notes) pitched a perfect ninth for his 36th save. 
San Francisco failed to win a seventh straight home series at sold-out AT&T Park since taking two of three from Milwaukee on July 22-24. 
Roberts drove a 2-0 pitch from Vogelsong (10-6) into the left-field bleachers to start the eighth-inning rally. After Gerar­do Parra(notes) followed with an infield single, Vogelsong’s day was done. Jeremy Affeldt(notes) was called upon to face pinch-hitter Geoff Blum(notes), while Vogelsong walked off to a stand­ing ovation and tipped his cap. 
After Affeldt walked Blum on six pitches, Bochy replaced him with Ramon Ramirez(notes). Bochy vowed to pull out all the stops and treat this one like an elimination game. 
Aaron Hill(notes) added an RBI single in the eighth to give Arizona an insurance run. Gib­son went with the same eight players in the same order af­ter Saturday’s victory ahead of Hudson in the ninth hole. 


Kirk Gibson’s gritty group has seized control of its fate with a fabulous stretch. 
“What we never wanted to do is get in a situation where we’re looking at the scoreboard and wanting somebody else to do our dirty work,” Gibson said. 
Now, that’s right where the Gi­ants sit. 
“We’ve left ourselves no room for error,” utilityman Mark DeRosa(notes) said. “We don’t have a choice. We can’t sit and worry. We need to win every game and scoreboard watch. We will keep fighting.” 
The pressure is on San Fran­cisco to make another spectacu­lar September run, a last-ditch push with time quickly running out—and hope for some help from other teams against the red-hot Diamondbacks. 
Arizona lost Friday night’s series opener 6-2 to end a nine-game winning streak, then bounced back with a com­manding 7-2 win against Tim Lincecum(notes) on Saturday night behind another impres­sive outing from 18-game win­ner Ian Kennedy(notes). 
“It’s a good feeling, I’m not going to lie to you. These guys feel good about themselves, and they should,” Gibson said. “There’s no comfort, I don’t care how many games we’re up, un­til we’ve secured our spot in the playoffs.” 
Arizona played much of Sun­day’s finale without slugger Justin Upton(notes), who was ejected in the fourth inning for arguing a called third strike. 
Upton jumped into the air af­ter being called out on strikes against Vogelsong for the first out of the fourth with Hill aboard on a leadoff single. Upton jawed with plate umpire Brian Knight and was tossed. An infuriated Upton had to be held back by Gibson and then first base coach Eric Young(notes). 
Vogelsong, the journeyman and unlikely All-Star who toiled in the minors and Japan, lost his fourth straight start despite an impressive day. 
The Giants again missed chances with runners in scor­ing position—their downfall the entire season—and haven’t won in their last six series since tak­ing two of three at Florida from Aug. 12-14. 
The plan now? 
“Win every game from here on out. Make it interesting,” Vo­gelsong said. 
After being swept with three one-run defeats from May 10­12 at AT&T Park, the Diamond­backs took two of three in the waterfront ballpark Aug. 1-3— beating Matt Cain(notes) and Lincecum in the first two before dropping the series finale to Vogelsong 8-1—and again this weekend. 
Carlos Beltran(notes) came in with eight straight plate appear­ances reaching base— which tied his career high—but flied out to center in the first. He hit his fourth triple since joining the Giants in a July 28 trade from the New York Mets. 
Rookie Brandon Belt(notes) struck out swinging on a 16-pitch at-bat to start the sec­ond against Hudson. He fouled off 12 pitches, nine in a row. The plate appearance matched the longest of the season for San Francisco along with An­dres Torres(notes), who drew a seventh-inning walk on July 5 at home against the Padres. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
TICKETS  WANTED  questionnaires spring, 2012. Total compensation is $405. You must not be allergic to latex. Email Dr.  PERSONAL  Don’t move, baby don’t move Ah, look at you, I just wanna take   kiss, the door to forever What if this was that moment, that  
Anita Kelly at akelly@nd.edu. State  this in  chance worth takin’?  
your available hours Sundays- The moonlight dancing off your  History in the makin’  
BUYING SEASON TICKETS/ANY GAMES  Research Participants Needed  Friday. Use &amp;quot;ND Study&amp;quot; as the subject  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame  skin Our time, let’s take our timeI just  --Darius Rucker  
Healthy adults, ages 18-71 years,  line. Email akelly@nd.edu  has many resources in place to  wanna look in your eyes and catch  
GAs only.  needed for psychology study  assist you. If you or someone you  my breath‘  
at Notre Dame. Must have 8th  love needs confidential support  Cause I got a feelin’  
Call 574-277-1659  grade reading ability. Involves ten  or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  This could be one of those  Yo Mama so fat her BMI is  
45-minute weekly sessions from  Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at  memories  measured in acres.  
mid-September to mid-November,  1-2685. For more information,  We wanna hold on to, cling to, the  
2011 and 2 follow-up  visit ND’s website at: http://  one we can’t forget  
pregnancysupport@nd.edu  Baby this could be our last first 

MLB 

Jeter drives home five in win; Marlins triumph in extras 
Associated Press Toronto since August 2006 at tied Carl Yastrzemski for 15th the old Yankee Stadium. place on the career list with 
NEW YORK — Jose Bautista “We battled most of the game. 1,816 runs. came up empty against CC Sa-Until the very end we had a “It was a flyball to right. I got bathia again, and so did the To-two-run ballgame,” Wakamat-very lucky that ball sailed over ronto Blue Jays. su said. “We just cannot give up the fence. Couldn’t believe it,” 
Sabathia earned his 19th home runs, especially multirun Rodriguez said. win, Derek Jeter tied a career home runs, in this ballpark.” high with five RBIs and the Brett Cecil (4-8) went six in-Marlins 5, Phillies 4 New York Yankees polished off nings for the Blue Jays, who MIAMI — Mike Cameron a three-game sweep of Toronto have lost eight of 11. He is 0-4 drove in the winning run with with a 9-3 victory Sunday. in seven starts since winning a two-out, bases-loaded walk 
Jeter, Alex Rodriguez and consecutive outings against in the 14th inning Sunday, and Nick Swisher all homered for Texas in late July. the Florida Marlins benefited the Yankees, who increased “I had a good changeup. I had from an overturned ruling af­their AL East lead to 1½ games a good curveball,” Cecil said. ter a video review to beat the over Boston. Sabathia struck “The pitch to Jeter just needed Philadelphia Phillies 5-4. out 10 in 7 1-3 innings to win to be a little more in.” Hunter Pence was ruled out his seventh consecutive start Sabathia (19-7) threw 128 on fan interference in the sixth against the Blue Jays. pitches, two shy of his career inning after initially being 
“He takes you so deep in high, over six innings Tuesday awarded a double, and the rul­the ballgame,” Toronto acting night at Fenway Park to improve ing change may have cost the manager Don Wakamatsu said. to 1-4 in five starts against Bos-Phillies two runs. They played “I thought they battled him. ton this season. He was much the game under protest. Again, we got a few runs off more efficient against Toronto, The lead changed hands four him and kept the pressure on which was no surprise. times, and Florida came from him, but he’s so tough.” The 2007 AL Cy Young Award behind for the second game in 
One big reason for Sabathia’s winner is 12-3 in 15 career a row to take the series. success is that he’s dominated starts against the Blue Jays, The Marlins had a hit in the matchups with Bautista. including 3-0 this year and 7-0 all but two innings, but they The major league home run since the beginning of the 2007 stranded a franchise-record 23 leader is 0 for 18 with eight season. He ranks second in the runners and went 3 for 19 with strikeouts against the big lefty majors in wins behind Detroit runners in scoring position. after going hitless in three tries ace Justin Verlander (21-5). They loaded the bases against Sunday. “He’s just a horse,” said Mark David Herndon (1-3) with one 
Bautista did hit a colossal Teixeira, who returned to the out in both the 12th and 13th homer off Rafael Soriano in New York lineup after missing inning but failed to score, then the eighth, cutting it to 5-3 and two games with a sore right benefited from his wildness in joining Carlos Delgado (1999, knee. the 14th. 2000) as the only Blue Jays to Sabathia yielded six hits, Emilio Bonifacio led off the sock 40 home runs in succes-walked one and threw 111 inning with a walk and ad­sive seasons. pitches. He retired 10 in a row vanced on a sacrifice. After 

“He’s one of the best hitters after Mark Teahen’s RBI double Greg Dobbs was intentionally in the league,” Sabathia said. made it 4-2 in the fourth and walked, Gaby Sanchez lined “Hopefully I can keep it up.” needs two strikeouts to join out. Logan Morrison also re-year. ed. Raul Ibanez followed with 
Soriano avoided further dam-Javier Vazquez and Tim Wake-ceived an intentional walk — Phils ace Roy Halladay went a double, but the Phils didn’t age and New York tacked on field as the only active pitchers the fifth issued to the Marlins six innings and allowed nine score in the inning. four runs in the eighth against with 2,000. in the final four innings — be-hits and three runs. He gave up The fan was Alex Dicandio, a Toronto’s bullpen. Swisher hit Rodriguez, who returned to fore Cameron walked on a 3-1 an unearned run when he com-college student in Tampa. His a two-run shot and Jeter had the lineup Saturday after miss-pitch. mitted his first error this sea-take on the ruling? a two-run single to go with his ing six games with a sprained Herndon gave up three home son by dropping a throw cover-“It should have been a home three-run homer in the third. left thumb, hit a leadoff homer runs in one inning when the ing first. run,” he said. 
Prized prospect Jesus Mon-in the sixth to the short porch Phillies blew a late lead Satur-Florida’s Anibal Sanchez also tero had two hits for the Yan-in right. day. went six innings and allowed Angels 4, Twins 1 kees, who boosted their record “I’m not blaming the park, The Phillies lost for only the two runs, both unearned be-ANAHEIM, Calif. — Joel Pin-in day games to a big league-but it’s unbelievable what you seventh time in their past 29 cause of an error on third base-eiro posted his first victory in best 37-9. They have won four have to deal with here,” Cecil games in Miami since Septem-man Dobbs. Plagued by poor almost two months and Bobby straight and seven of eight said. “I got it in on his hands. ber 2008. It was their final run support, Sanchez has won Abreu homered, leading the overall. He was fighting to get his hands game at the stadium that has only once in his past 15 starts. Los Angeles Angels to a 4-1 win 
It was New York’s eighth through.” been the Marlins’ home since Halladay was in line for his over the Minnesota Twins on sweep this season and first of It was A-Rod’s 628th career their first game in 1993. Florida 18th victory when the Phils Sunday in the rubber game of at least three games against homer and 15th this season. He moves into a new ballpark next scored twice in the seventh the weekend series. 

to take a 4-3 lead. Shane Vic-Pineiro (6-6) allowed a run torino and Michael Martinez and five hits over seven innings. walked, and Ryan Howard hit a The right-hander, making his two-out, two-run single. third start since a brief demo-
Florida pulled even in the tion to the bullpen, was 0-3 bottom of the seventh on Gaby with a whopping 10.30 ERA in Sanchez’s RBI groundout. Mi-six starts since beating Seattle chael Schwimer walked three 9-3 on July 9 at Angel Stadium. in the inning but struck out The Angels remained 3½ John Buck to end it. games out of first place in the 
Clay Hensley (3-6) pitched AL West behind the Texas two perfect innings. Rangers, who won 11-4 at Bos-
Philadelphia went 2 for 12 ton. with runners in scoring posi-Torii Hunter and Vernon tion and stranded 11. Chase Wells added insurance runs Utley went 0 for 7 and finished with RBI singles in the eighth 4 for 33 on the Phillies’ trip. inning, and rookie Jordan Hunter Pence went 0 for 6. Walden followed Scott Downs 
The video review occurred out of the bullpen with a hitless with the score 2-all and a run-ninth to get his 28th save in 37 ner at first in the sixth. Pence chances. was ruled out when a specta-Kevin Slowey (0-4) allowed tor wearing a Phillies jersey two runs and seven hits in seven leaned over the outfield railing innings for Minnesota. Twins and tried to catch the ball with catcher Joe Mauer returned to his Phillies cap. Marlins right the lineup as the designated fielder Bryan Petersen tried to hitter, going 1 for 2 with a hom­make the catch, but his glove er and two walks after missing brushed the fan’s cap, and the two games because of an upper ball deflected to the warning respiratory infection. track for an apparent double Slowey, who made 82 starts that put runners at first and for Minnesota over the previ­third with none out. ous four years, avoided arbi-
Both managers complained. tration in January by signing a The Phils’ Charlie Manuel one-year, $2.7 million contract. wanted the play ruled a home But he began the season in the run, and the Marlins’ Jack bullpen after losing out to Nick McKeon wanted Pence called Blackburn and Brian Duensing out. Following a video review, for one of the last two spots the umpires ruled Pence out. in the rotation coming out of Manuel argued and was eject-spring training. 


TENNIS 

Nadal moves on, suffers post-match leg cramp 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Even if it turns out to be nothing, which Rafael Nadal insists was the case, the frightening scene in his post-match interview Sunday will go down as memorable. 
Answering questions in Span­ish, Nadal suddenly started gri­macing in pain. He tilted his head back, covered his face with his arm. His face twisted in ago­ny as he slid down in his chair, he motioned for help. 
After a few nervous moments with the trainers crowded around the table, Nadal popped back up. A simple leg cramp, he insisted. 
“It’s bad luck it happened here and not in the locker room,” he said. 
But because it did, that was the big news Sunday at the U.S. Open 
— bigger than Nadal’s straight-set win over David Nalbandian that ended about two hours be­fore the cramping episode, bigger than wins by Americans Donald Young (a surprise) and Andy Roddick (not as much of one). 
“I just have cramping in my leg, that’s all,” Nadal said. 
His 7-6 (5), 6-1, 7-5 win over Nalbandian was routine, at least as routine as they’ve been going for the defending champion and No. 2 seed through the first week at Flushing Meadows. He gave up a break early in the first set but fought back to force a tiebreak­er that he won. He gave back a break in the third set to turn a possible 6-3 close-out into some­thing much closer. 
He is winning but not steam­rolling — serving well, but not dominating the way he did last year. Last year, he lost serve five times in seven matches; this year, he’s lost nine service games in three. 
“I was happy about almost everything today,” Nadal said. “I think my movements worked pretty well, and the forehand worked really well, and the back­hand, too. Just when I had to win the match at 5-3, I played a really bad game there. For the rest of the match, I happy about every­thing.” 
But shortly after saying that, the cramping came — in his right quadriceps and his right ham­string. A scary scene with a few dozen reporters looking on and the cameras rolling. Certainly something that will give people plenty to talk about as Nadal gears up for the second week, even if it really wasn’t too big a deal. 
“Not to put a dampener on the story, which I know you guys think is really big, but people cramp after matches when you’re cold,” Roddick said after his match. “It’s just something that happens. It’s just unfortu­nate it happened in front of you all. Every single player in there has had that happen before. Ev­ery single one.” 
Indeed, there were other play­ers struggling with the heat on a windy, humid day in Queens with temperatures in the mid-80s. 
In Louis Armstrong Stadium, No. 26 Flavia Pennetta backed up her victory over Maria Sharapo­va with a 6-4, 7-6 (6) win over No. 13 Peng Shuai of China. But she also struggled with the heat. Trailing 5-3 in the second, Pen­netta got a break to stay in it. She forced a tiebreaker but appeared near exhaustion as the set wore on. The match took 2 hours, 31 minutes. 
“This one is one of the worst I’ve ever felt on the court,” Pen­netta said. 
Pennetta fell behind 5-0 and 6-2 in the tiebreaker but won the last six points to pull out the match. Pennetta made it 6-6 when she answered Peng’s over­head with a shot that hit near the frame of her racket for a cross-court winner. 
MLB 

Lackey, Red Sox fall to Texas 
Associated Press 

BOSTON — After his team played an entire season se­ries with the Texas Rang­ers with none of the games decided by fewer than four runs, Red Sox manager Ter­ry Francona pointed to the hitting of the two clubs as the main reason. 
“When you get to the bull­pen before you want to, both teams have such good offens­es and you make a mistake and you spread it out,” Fran­cona said after the Red Sox lost 11-4 to AL West-leading Texas on Sunday. 
“We haven’t played that many close games,” he said. “You get to the bullpen in the fourth or fifth and both teams have been able to spread those games out.” 
The Red Sox lost six of their 10 games against the Rangers, a potential postsea­son opponent, and yielded 65 runs in the season series — 51 of them in the six losses. 
Boston starter John Lackey pitched into the sixth inning Sunday and left with the Red Sox trailing 3-0. Young left-hander Felix Doubront then allowed three inherited run­ners to score, and the Rang­ers were well on their way to another rout. 
Lackey fell to 12-11 with a 
6.11 ERA on the season. He also dropped to 12-14 with a 
6.16 ERA in 36 career starts against Texas. 
“I don’t have a whole lot of tricks left [against them], no,” he said. “You try to change sequences. They’ve got a good lineup, man, they’re tough. They definite­ly worked me, got my pitch count up quite a bit there in the sixth inning. They got enough of hits to get me out of there and it just didn’t go real good after that.” 
Josh Hamilton capped Tex­as’ seven-run sixth inning with a bases-loaded triple. 
Ian Kinsler homered, drove in three runs and made a stellar defensive play for the Rangers, who took two of three in a weekend series that continued the trend of lopsided games between the teams this season. 
Boston went 4-5 on its nine-game homestand and fell to 1½ games behind AL East-leading New York, which beat Toronto 9-3 on Sunday. 
Marco Scutaro had a two-run single for the Red Sox. 
The Rangers outscored the Red Sox 51-15 in games they won. Boston had a 42-14 edge in its victories. 
Matt Harrison (11-9) al­lowed two runs and seven hits in seven innings in his first start since he struggled in a loss to the Red Sox on Aug. 24. Texas opted to skip his previous turn in the ro­tation and the left-hander pitched two scoreless in­nings in relief against Tampa Bay on Wednesday. 
Texas won 10-0 in the se­ries opener on Friday, and the Red Sox rebounded with a 12-7 victory Saturday. 
The Rangers broke it open in the sixth, chasing Lackey while building a 9-0 lead. Michael Young had a leadoff single and Adrian Beltre sin­gled for his 2,000th career hit. David Murphy followed with a run-scoring single and Lackey walked Mike Na­poli, the last batter he faced. 
Doubront relieved and Mitch Moreland snapped an 0-for-20 stretch with an RBI single before pinch-hitter Esteban German walked to force in a run. Kinsler added a sacrifice fly and Doubront reloaded the bases with a walk to set up Hamilton’s tri­ple into the triangle in center field. 
Doubront was charged with three runs and retired just one batter. Matt Albers finally got out of the inning thanks to a nice running catch by right fielder Darnell McDonald with two runners on. 
Kinsler and Napoli hom­ered off Michael Bowden in the ninth. 
Lackey, who had won sev­en of his last 10 starts, al­lowed six runs and eight hits, walked three and hit a batter. Like a few other times this season, he left the mound to a spattering of boos. 
Napoli singled in a run in the second and Kinsler add­ed a run-scoring triple in the third, a drive to right-center that barely sailed over Conor Jackson’s outstretched glove just before he crashed into the wall at full speed. Lack­ey escaped further damage when he grabbed Elvis An­drus’ hard liner back to the mound and doubled off Kin­sler. 
Jackson, who was hold­ing his left arm and flexing his right knee, left the game with a bruised right knee an inning later and was re­placed by McDonald. 


NCAA FOOTBALL 

Lee, shorthanded LSU hand Oregon first blemish 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas — In a rare opening matchup of top-five teams, both missing key players, Jarrett Lee admirably directed LSU’s offense in place of suspended quarterback Jor­dan Jefferson. 
Being without standout cor­nerback-punt returner Cliff Harris was more than mistake-prone and third-ranked Oregon could overcome. 
The Ducks’ fill-in punt re­turner had a fumble that led directly to an LSU touchdown and Lee’s touchdown pass came against the defensive back playing in Harris’ spot in the fourth-ranked Tigers’ 40­27 victory Saturday night. 
“I asked them to put to the perimeter all the things that could be considered distrac­tions,” LSU coach Les Miles said. “I enjoyed Jarrett Lee’s gutty effort. I liked how the of­fense did the things they need­ed to do.” 
Already without the sus­pended Harris, the Ducks made things even harder on them­selves with four turnovers — three that LSU converted into 20 points while building a 30­13 lead. 
Highly touted freshman De’Anthony Thomas fumbled on consecutive touches late in the third quarter, one on a rushing attempt and then on the ensuing kickoff, and the Tigers took control with touch­down runs from Michael Ford and Spencer Ware in a span of less than 3½ minutes. 
“Those are self-inflicted wounds,” coach Chip Kelly said. “The drops, the turnovers and the penalties are the things that really killed us. Against a team like that, you’re not going to win the game.” 
Harris, who can be found on most preseason All-America teams, was suspended in June after police caught him driv­ing 118 mph, and also having a suspended license at the time. 
The Tigers were also without receiver Russell Shepard, who was suspended for at least this game because he discussed another NCAA inquiry with a teammate. He was third in re­ceiving and fourth in rushing for LSU last season. 
Besides the legitimate na­tional title hopes both teams had, they had a tie in ongoing NCAA investigations into their dealings with Willie Lyles, who ran a Houston-based service that provided scouting reports of high school players. 
And this was the first season-opening game of top-five teams on a neutral field since 1984, when Jimmy Johnson won his debut as coach of Miami against an Auburn squad featuring Bo Jackson a year before he won the Heisman Trophy. There was a crowd of 87,711 at Cowboys Stadium, where LSU played its second consecutive game. 
The Tigers ended their 2010 season on the Dallas Cowboys’ home field in January with a 41­24 victory over Texas A&M in the Cotton Bowl when Jefferson passed for three touchdowns and ran for another score. 
But Jefferson is now sus­pended indefinitely, as is re­serve linebacker Josh Johns, because they are facing felony charges of second degree bat­tery stemming from a bar fight near campus last month. 
Plenty of subplots in this one. 
“We’ve had a lot on our minds as team coming into this game,” Lee said. “It’s not some­thing that we wanted to hap­pen. But you have to put that to the side and move forward.” 
Lee’s 10th career start, his first since a win over Louisi­ana Tech in 2009, was far from spectacular. The senior com­pleted only 10 of 22 passes for 98 yards, but didn’t have an in­terception and appeared steady throughout the game. 
The lone LSU turnover came when Lee stepped up toward the line to point out a pending blitz, at the same time the ball was snapped behind him. That set up Rob Beard’s second field goal to give Oregon a 6-3 lead. 
Oregon, which lost to Auburn in the BCS national champion­ship game last season, has con­secutive losses for the first time since they losing its last three regular-season games in 2007. 




NCAA FOOTBALL 

Aggies top Mustangs in season-opening win 
Associated Press 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas — Cyrus Gray and Christine Mi­chael ran for two touchdowns apiece and Ryan Tannehill threw for two more scores to help No. 8 Texas A&M beat SMU 46-14 on Sunday night. 
The Aggies were anxious to get on the field and bring the focus back to football instead of the school’s decision to leave the Big 12. They got things going early, intercepting quarterback Kyle Padron’s passes on SMU’s first two possessions to jump out to a 14-0 lead. 
SMU coach June Jones re­placed Padron with backup 
J.J. McDermott after the early miscues and he helped the Mus­tangs cut it to 20-14 in the sec­ond quarter. 
But the Mustangs couldn’t do much offensively after that and the Aggies scored 26 straight points the rest of the way to se­cure the win. 
Gray finished with 132 yards rushing. Michael, in his first game since breaking his leg last October, added 85. Tanne­hill was 21 of 26 for 246 yards. Ryan Swope led Texas A&M’s receivers with eight receptions for 109 yards and a score and Jeff Fuller added six catches for 52 yards. 
Texas A&M had eight sacks, led by three by Tony Jerod-Ed­die, the Aggies most since 2002. 
McDermott finished with 254 yards passing and a touchdown, but was sacked seven times. Zach Line ran for 128 yards and a score and 6-foot-8 defensive end Margus Hunt blocked two extra points for the Mustangs. Line had 101 yards rushing with 10 minutes left in the sec­ond quarter, but managed just 27 the rest of the way. 
The Aggies had built a 33-14 lead at halftime and tacked on a field goal on their first pos­session in the third quarter to make it 36-14. 
Tannehill found tight end Hutson Prioleau on a 32-yard touchdown pass later in the third quarter to extend A&M’s lead to 43-14. 
The Mustangs trimmed the lead to 20-14 when McDermott found Keenan Holman on a 27­yard touchdown pass on his second drive. 
The Aggies finally found an answer for the McDermott-led offense on his third possession and Mustangs had to punt. The Aggies went to Swope on their next drive, hitting him four times for 53 yards, including a 28-yard touchdown to leave it at 27-14 in the second quarter. 
Texas A&M sacked McDer­mott twice on SMU’s next drive and the Mustangs had to punt. Michael finished the drive with three consecutive runs, includ­ing a 1-yard TD run for the Aggies. Hunt blocked his sec­ond extra point attempt of the game, and the Aggies led 33-14 at halftime. 
Steven Campbell intercepted a pass by Padron and returned it 51 yards to the to the SMU 6 on the Mustangs’ first drive of the game. Michael scored on a 4-yard run two plays later to give Texas A&M a 7-0 lead. 
Padron’s pass was intercept­ed on the next drive, this time by Trent Hunter, who returned it 30 yards to give A&M another short field with the ball at the SMU 45. Gray got the Aggies in the end zone to finish that drive with a 5-yard run to make it 14­0. 
That’s when Jones had seen enough from Padron and re­placed him with McDermott. The switch got SMU’s offense going, with McDermott orches­trating a seven-play, 60-yard drive fueled by Line’s running and capped by a 1-yard touch­down run by the back to cut it to 14-7. 
The Mustangs tried an onside kick after that, but it traveled just one yard and sat on the ground for a few seconds before SMU jumped on top of it, giving Texas A&M the ball at the SMU 31. 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles win Defiance Classic 

By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 

The Belles dominated in the Defiance Classic with two 4-0 shutout victories over Defiance College and Thiel College this weekend, snatching their first tournament win since 2008. 
Belles coach Michael Joyce said the tournament win was a great way to open the season. 
“We controlled both games, so it was a great opportunity to see a lot of the new players in game action,” Joyce said. 
Saint Mary’s began their sea­son Friday with the 4-0 win over Defiance College. The game was scoreless until well into the first half. 
Freshman forward Kelly Wil­son scored both the game’s first goal and her first collegiate goal. Five minutes later, senior co-captain Michelle Marshall kicked a long shot for the Belles’ second point. 
After the half, freshman mid­fielder Hillary Burton made her own mark, scoring her first goal as a Belle and bringing the score to 3-0. Senior forward Katelyn Tondo-Steele kicked in the final goal at the end of the game. 
“The chemistry on the field was very high for our fist cou­ple of games out,” Joyce said. “It was a big confidence boost to get some victories under our belt.” 
Freshmen Chanler Rosen­baum and Natalie Warner manned the goal, kicking their college careers off with a team shutout. 
In the second game of the tournament, Saint Mary’s beat Thiel with another 4-0 victory. Senior midfielder Taylor Paton scored the first goal in the first 15 minutes of the game, turning a corner kick into a 1-0 lead. Pa­ton struck again after the half with another corner kick. 
“Taylor Paton scored three goals from the midfield, which is not easy to do,” Joyce said. 
“She really impressed me.” 
Freshman midfielder Erin Mishu scored her first goal only three minutes after Paton’s, bringing the Belles to a 3-0 lead. The final shot was made by sophomore forward Jordan Diffenderfer. 
Rosenbaum and Warner suc­cessfully shut out their second straight game, the first pair of consecutive shutouts for Saint Mary’s since 2007. 
The Belles defense allowed only one shot on goal from the Tomcats. 
“Quite a few freshmen made a good case for starting and play­ing time,” Joyce said. “We have a lot to work out over the next couple of games about the best lineup and right chemistry.” 
Saint Mary’s will play at home against the Manchester College Spartans at 5 p.m. Tuesday. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


Waldrum 
continued from page 20 
special quality to the roster. 
“She’s as good as she wants to be,” Waldrum said. “And she’s just so humble and passes things on to oth­ers when you want her to just go out and do what she 
does best.” 
Hender ­son shred­ded the Hoosier de­fense with three goals in the first 53 minutes of the 4-1 win to give the No. 10 Irish (3-2) the title. The high­light of the afternoon came on 
Henderson’s third goal in the 33rd minute, when the senior took a through pass from sophomore midfielder Mandy Laddish just outside the box. 
Henderson blew by her defender down the outside of the box, then cut back in towards goal — crossing her defender — and finished with a short-side goal, leav­ing the defender and goalie completely flustered. 
“When [Henderson] plays the way she did this week­end she gives us a great chance to win,” Waldrum said. “It was good to see her get on track offensively to­day.” 

Henderson also scored a goal and recorded two as­sists in the tournament’s opening game Friday against Tulsa, where sopho­more forward Adriana Leon 
— who also scored a goal in Sunday’s match — stole the show with two goals 
and an as­sist in a 7-1 romp over 
Tulsa (3-1). 

“Overall, I am really 
Notre Dame 

happy about the 
outshot the 

way we played this 
Golden Hur­

weekend and hopefully 
ricane 39-4 

we can take that 
and scored 

effort to California 
seven un­

this weekend.” 
answered goals af-

Randy Waldrum 
ter Tulsa Irish coach scored six 
seconds into 
the game to 
take an ear­
ly 1-0 lead. 

“I would have never thought that we would score seven goals against Tulsa like that,” Waldrum said. “They were undefeated coming into the game. And with Adriana [Leon] coming off of an injury and still not 100 percent, it was great to see her come out with three goals on the weekend.” 
The Irish also had to come from behind in the game against Indiana (3-2-1) af­ter Hoosier senior forward Carly Samp sent a booming shot from outside of the box into the upper corner of the net in the 12th minute to set the score at 1-0. But Notre Dame once again respond­ed, this time with three goals in roughly eight min­utes — highlighted by Hen­derson’s shot from the edge of the box which curved around Indiana senior goal­ie Lindsay Campbell. 
“We came back Friday and [Sunday] and that shows that this team has a lot of resilience,” Waldrum said. “It was also a pleasant sur­prise to see how well [soph­omore midfielder] Rebecca Twining played the last cou­ple of weeks because she has had to come back from last year where she strug­gled to stay healthy.” 
Twining turned in a mem­orable weekend as the soph­omore scored her first ca­reer goal against Tulsa and added an assist on a crisp pass to Henderson, capping the score at 4-1 on Sunday. 
A tough weekend awaits the Irish as they head to the Santa Clara Adidas Clas­sic to take on No. 16 Santa Clara and No. 2 Stanford, whom the Irish defeated in last year’s national champi­onship game. 
“Overall, I am really hap­py about the way we played this weekend and hopefully we can take that effort to California this weekend,” Waldrum said. 
Contact andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Saint Mary’s finishes third in meet at Wabash 
By WALKER CAREY we are as a team with our fitness Sports Writer and speed, and also we got an idea of what our pack is able to do,” 
The Saint Mary’s cross country Bauters said. team braved the heat in their sea- Bauter said she was impressed son opening race Saturday at the with her team’s performance, es-Hokum Karem meet at Wabash pecially since the Belles graduated College. The team finished third a strong group of seniors in May. 
with a group score of 29. 

Both De-Pauw, a top-10 “Saint Mary’s cross team from last country has a talented, 
season, and 

motivated and devoted the University group of competitors, 
of Indianapolis 

and I look forward to finished ahead the exciting outcomes 
of the Belles. 

that will unfold over the 
Saint Mary’s 

rest of this season.” 
senior Joanne Almond and ju-

Julia Kenney 
nior Julia Ken­ney finished junior runner fourth in the re­lay (23:42), just three seconds 
“What I saw from Saturday’s race is a very strong base and fitness in our ladies —some­thing that will provide us with the foundation for a great sea­son,” Bauters said. “I am ex­cited to see how the pieces will come together in our first five-kilometer race in two weeks.” 
behind the third place tandem and five seconds after the second place finishers. Juniors Emma Baker and Angela Nebesny finished 16th (25:40), while sophomore Collette Curtis and junior Sarah Copi fin­ished 18th (26.00). 
Junior Elizabeth Majewski and freshman Samee Chittenden came in 22nd overall (26:30), while Liz Krupp and Mandy Wolf finished 32nd (27:57). 
Belles coach Jackie Bauters said the Hokum Karem was a great way to start the season. 
“We really got an idea of where 


Kuschel 
continued from page 20 
The Belles (1-3) fell to Mount Union Friday in a 3-0 (25-18, 25-22, 26-24) loss that was much closer than the score indicates, as Saint Mary’s pushed the Purple Raiders deep into sets. 
Later in the day, the Belles took on Geneva but dropped the match 3-1 (26-28, 25­20, 25-17, 25-16) despite picking up its first set in a match this year. 
“Our first two matches really set the tone for the weekend for us unfortu­nately,” Kuschel said. “I saw a lot of good things, and I’m really happy with how our team is coming together, but who wins on the score sheet is really all that mat­ters.” 
On Saturday, the Belles took their first victory of the season against Alleghe­ny, 3-2 (25-18, 23-25, 27-29, 25-16, 15-10). 
“Our outside hitters and defense really stepped up for us against Allegheny,” Kuschel said. “[Junior set-
Kenney said she is anxiously anticipating the team’s progress throughout the season. 
“Saint Mary’s cross country has a talented, motivated and devoted group of competitors, and I look forward to the exciting outcomes that will unfold over the rest of this season,” Kenney said. 
The Belles will participate in the Calvin Invitational at Calvin Uni­versity in Grand Rapids, Mich. on Sept. 17. 
Contact walker Carey at wcarey@nd.edu 
ter] Danie Brink really set our offense superbly. She finished with 47 assists. On the defensive end, I think we ended with 102 digs.” 
Exhausted by the mara­thon match with Allegheny, the Belles fell in four sets to Mount St. Joseph 3-1 (25-21, 17-25, 25-12, 25-23) in the nightcap. 
Kuschel displayed great admiration for her fresh­man class as seven of them saw the court this week­end. Freshman outside hit­ter Kati Schneider led the Belles with 49 kills in four games. 
“I was delighted with how our freshmen played this weekend and how they’re assimilating into the team. Our team is really not di­vided into classes. We’re all Belles,” Kuschel said. “That will be really important as we jump into our conference schedule this week. There are no easy games, and ev­ery team is a great team.” 
The Belles return to action Tuesday against Kalama­zoo in Kalamazoo, Mich., in their first conference game of the season. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
winning it,” Brown said. “We have to if we want to reach our 

Brown goals. We’re eager to get back in 
the gym and back to work next continued from page 20 weekend.” Notre Dame returns to action 
at home in the Joyce Center on weekend for the Golden Dome Friday at 7 p.m. against Lip-Invitational, the Irish look to scomb University. get back on track. 
“Obviously we go into every Contact Conor Kelly at match with the expectation of ckelly17@nd.edu 
Powers 
continued from page 20 
1) took the offensive upper hand with 13 shots to Dayton’s seven, out-shooting Flyers 25-13 for the entire game. 
Dayton evened out the score in the 45th minute, just after Shipp put the first point on the board for the Irish. However, Notre Dame goalkeeper senior Will Walsh fin­ished with four total saves to sup­press the Flyers to one goal for the day. 
Despite two overtimes, the Irish could not net a goal before Saint Louis, as Billikens midfielder Alex Johnston scored in the 104th min­ute of play, sealing Notre Dame’s first loss of the season. 
“I actually thought we played better in the second game from a pure soccer point of view,” Clark said. 
The Irish took the lead in the 33rd minute, as Finley capital­ized off of a rebounded shot from Shipp and put the Irish up 1-0.  But Saint Louis found a way to get in the game and eventually the back of the net. 
“We could handle our pressure at the beginning of the second half,” Powers said. We had some very good chances, but we couldn’t put them away in the second half.” 
In the 57th minute, Saint Louis responded with a goal and evened the game at 1-1. 
Soon after the equalizing play, Finley received a red card and was ejected from the game, forc­ing the Irish to play with one less player and without their top scor­er and crucial forward for the rest of the game. 
“These things happen,” Clark said. “There was maybe a slight semblance of acting from the other team, but we played about 54 minutes plus the overtime one man down.” 
Though the result of the game was a loss, Notre Dame outshot Saint Louis 22-10 in the match, 4-2 in overtime and 7-4 in corner kicks. 
“We were clearly the dominate team, but soccer can be tough like that,” Clark said. “Unfortunately the only statistic that really counts are the goals. The other ones can look nice, but the only ones that matter are the goals.” 
The Irish suffered their first loss of the regular season, and the Bil-likens claimed their first win in Sunday’s match. 
“I really think, even with a man down, if we stick to our plan the way we know how to play, we’ll be successful,” Powers said. 
Powers added that a loss with quality shots on goal and a strong offensive performance is a partic­ularly tough loss to stomach. 
“It’s a horrible feeling to have,” Powers said. “But now we can move that loss out of the way and look forward to the next game.” 
As the season moves forward from this weekend, Clark said his team is right where he wants them to be. 
“If they play as well as that and keep the tempo we had against Saint Louis, this team will come together quite nicely,” Clark said. “We’re very close I think, and we’re an exciting team to watch.” 
Notre Dame will host the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament beginning Friday at Alumni Stadi­um. The tournament field includes Indiana, Bucknell and Denver. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


Rydberg 
continued from page 20 

medical redshirt status last season due to a stress fracture in her lower back, was happy to return to the course. 
“I’m not thrilled about it, but I’m not upset either,” Rydberg said. “I think it was a good starting point. It’s not where I want to be at the end of the season, but I think it’s a good point to begin at and to be able to build on.” 
For the men’s squad, sopho­mores Patrick Lesiewicz and DJ Thornton finished third and fifth, respectively, and were joined in the top-10 by fresh­man Jason Hoard. Senior Zac Suriano, who finished 18th in the field of 53 runners, had mixed feelings about his team’s results. 
“Typically we enter every meet with the expectations to win, so coming in second like we did is a little disappointing,” Suriano said. “Obviously sec­ond place is not as good as first, but it’s a good starting point for the guys on the team and a place to move forward from.” 
Both teams had to deal with the adverse weather condi­tions, and the men’s race was shortened from 6000 meters to 5000 meters. Preparation was key in order to perform in the intense heat. 
“For the most part, prepara­tion is where you have to take the heat into account,” Su­riano said. “You have to really stay hydrated three, four, even five days before the race, even more so than you would have to if it weren’t 95 degrees out. In terms of the race itself, you still try to stay out in front and set the tempo. The heat affects everyone, so all you can really do is prepare before you get there.” 
Both teams expect improve­ment at the next meet in two weeks. 
“Going into the race we’re ex­pecting to win, and we’re going to do everything we can to do that,” Rydberg said. “This race will serve as motivation to real­ize how far we want to be from where we are now.” 
The Irish will race again Sept. 16 at the National Catholic Championships at Notre Dame. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcotteti@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  
13  14  15  16  
17  18  
19  20  21  
22  23  24  
25  26  27  28  29  30  31  32  
33  34  35  
36  37  38  39  40  
41  42  43  
44  45  46  47  
48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  55  56  57  58  
59  60  61  62  
63  64  
65  66  67  

CROSSWORD 
Across 34Hot cocoa 
1 French-speaking container, nation in the maybe Americas 35Japanese “yes” 
6 Network with an 

36Unfinished eye logo project…or, 9___colada literally, what the 13*Eloquent answersto the 16“Crazy” bird eight starredclues contain? 
17*British novelist who wrote 41Where abear “London Fields” hibernates 18Liter ormeter 42Go kaput 19Crafty 43See 40-Down 20*College near 44Kerfuffle Philadelphia 
45*National 
22Mets'ballpark 
discount store 
until 2008 
chain 24Symbol on 
48Dove's sound
Superman's 
50Whacked-out 
chest 
mental state 
25*Having bothRepublican and 51*Container next 
Democratic 
toabowl of support cereal 30Degree after an 56The last “w” in M.A., perhaps www 33“___ do” (“Not 59Morales of possible”) “NYPD Blue” 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


60*Like some checks and vendors 
63“Or ___!” (threat) 64*Graduallyseparated65Pictures inked on 
the body, in slang66Lawn base 67Wigwam relative 
Down 
1 Easter roasts 2 Asia's shrinking ___Sea 3 Humble response
toacompliment4 Palindromic bird 5 Here, in 1-Across 6 Scratch,asacat 
mightasofa 7 Crimson Tide 
school, for short 8 Start to wake up 9 Prunes, originally
10Where the Northern Lights occur 
11Dark film genre12___meridiem (morning: Lat.)14Al who wonfour 
Indy 500s15D.C. winter hrs. 21Rooster's mate 22Train for aboxing
match 23Baseball's Hammerin'___ 25Bent at acurtain call 26Antiestablishment 
figure27Urge28Spanish “south”29In the past31Hurry32What everyone
brings to apotluckdinner 33Nothing 

WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Joel Fagliano 

37Words before 47Corp. creativity 55Record for later “You may kiss department viewing, in a the bride” way
49Dust Bowl 
38Nothing migrants 56Shawl, e.g. 39Saxophonist 

57French “to be” 
Stan 51Encounter 58Tiny part of a
40With 43-Across, 52Jamaica, por computer's yttriumor ejemplo memoryscandium 53Place to enter a 61Congratulate 45___Martens 

(shoes) PIN nonverbally 46Loved to pieces 54Letters after pis 62King Kong, e.g. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 aminute;or, with acredit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions areavailable for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&Tusers: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, orvisit nytimes.com/mobilexword for moreinformation. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and morethan 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 ayear).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE LONDON EXPRESS ALEx GRISWOLD AND LEE HAGGENJOS JUMBLE HENRy ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic ye ar 
 Enclosed is $75 for one semester  

Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Monday, September 5, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Notre Dame claims one game in Bloomington 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish split their two games at the season’s kickoff tourna­ment, the adidas/IU Credit Union Classic, with a 4-1 win over Dayton Friday and a 2-1 double-overtime loss against Saint Louis on Sunday in Bloomington, Ind. 
“There was no luck for the Irish this weekend,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. 
Against Dayton, junior forward Ryan Finley scored two of the four Irish goals, with sophomore for­ward Harrison Shipp and junior midfielder Dillon Powers adding a goal each to provide the additional scoring support. 
“The first game was probably our best game we’ve played so far,” junior midfielder Dillon Pow­ers said. “We had a lot of posses­sion, which was one of our goals this year.” 
From the beginning of the game, No. 10 Notre Dame (1-1­
see POWERS/page 18 
Split Decision 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles fall to 1-3 after trio of losses 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s traveled to the Mount Union Tourna­ment in Alliance, Ohio, to open its season and left with a 1-3 record. The squad earned a win over Allegheny but suffered losses to Mount Union, Geneva and Mount St. Joseph. 
Though the 1-3 record on the weekend was not what she was hoping for, coach Toni Kuschel returned from Ohio pleased with how her team performed. 
“The team showed a great amount of resiliency this weekend, and though we dug ourselves a number of holes, I was pleased with our abil­ity to get out of them,” Kus­chel said. “We played a large number of really close sets. It’s just a matter of getting over the hump.” 
see KUSCHEL/page 17 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Dame drops pair in California, now 3-2 on year 
By CONOR KELLY in here expecting to win, and first point of the match. match hitting at a .261 clip, led er, whose six kills, along with Sports Writer I don’t think the travel really “We have to get more consis-by junior Lauren Corp’s eigh-sophomore Andrea McHugh’s 
affected us too much,” Brown tent in our play,” Brown said. teen kills and .395 hitting per-seven, led the Irish against Saint 
Two loses over the weekend at said. “The girls are used to it, “The last two sets we played centage. The Irish ended the Mary’s. Houser was named to the Stanford Invitational in Palo and, though we played two Cal-much better, and, in my mind, match at .122. the all-tournament team. Alto, Calif., ended Notre Dame’s ifornia teams, I don’t think we the difference between the first “To be blunt, our offense re-“Houser has been great for undefeated season as the Irish can us it as an excuse.” and last half of the match is ally needs to get better,” Brown us, and she’s really coming into fell to host Stanford and Saint On Friday night, No. 6 Stan-quite huge.” said. “We can’t expect to hit her own as a player,” Brown Mary’s (Calif.). ford handed the Irish (3-2) their On Saturday, Saint Mary’s .122 and win too many matches said. 
Despite the five-hour trek to first loss of the season 3-1 (25-dealt the Irish a 3-0 (25-18, against the competition we’re For a team with high expec­the west coast, Irish coach Deb-12, 25-13, 21-25, 25-23). In a 25-16, 25-23) loss as the Gaels playing. I’m confident we’ll get tations and higher hopes, the bie Brown refused to let the pattern that continued through-outslugged the Irish on offense better.” two-loss weekend was certainly travel serve as an excuse for the out the weekend, the Irish found with three players notching One obvious bright spot for a setback. Back at home next loss. themselves victims of their own over ten kills. the Irish was the play of fresh­
“As I said before, we came poor play despite taking the Saint Mary’s finished the man middle blocker Jeni Hous-see BROWN/page 17 
WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Henderson nets hat trick 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
All-American senior for­ward Melissa Henderson capped a stunning weekend with a hat trick as she led Notre Dame to the Adidas Invitational title this week­end. 
Henderson received player of the tournament honors after scoring four goals and recording two assists in a pair of dominating wins over previously undefeated Tulsa and in-state rival Indiana. 
Irish coach Randy Wal­drum said Henderson’s tal­ent and demeanor added a 
see WALDRUM/page 17 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish squads both place second in meet 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 

Both the women’s and men’s teams beat the heat and placed second this weekend at Val­paraiso’s Crusader Invitational in Valapraiso, Ind. 
The women’s squad was edged out by Northwestern, by a margin of just eight points, while the men were toppled by Marquette by 16 points. In spite of high placements, both as teams and as individuals, the two Irish squads felt there was room for improvement.
 “I think we definitely should have been able to win the meet, so it was disappointing that we weren’t able to do that,” junior Jessica Rydberg, who finished second in a field of 81 individu­als, said. “We all know where we deserve to be and where we want to be, and we’re going to continue to work to do well in the future.” 
Rydberg was joined by fresh­men Gabby Gonzales and Em­ily Frydrych and senior Su­sanna Sullivan in the top-10. Rydberg, who maintained a 
see RYDBERG/page 18 



