Big House heartbreak 
Notre Dame drops to 0-2 after emotional roller coaster in Ann Arbor 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. — It seemed the Irish had won. Then, improbably, all seemed lost. Somehow, Notre Dame regained the lead with merely 30 seconds left – and then, shockingly, stun­ningly, astonishingly, it was gone again. Through all of that, Irish coach Brian Kelly was left with only one thought after Notre Dame’s 35-31 loss at Michigan. 
“We’re not good enough,” Kelly said. “There’s not one individual in that locker room, coaches in­cluded, who is good enough right now. Consequently, we lost the game … When we’re better as a football team, we’ll start win­ning.” 
Notre Dame (0-2) entered Michigan Stadium for the first night game in “Big House” his­tory to face the Wolverines (2­
0) and an NCAA-record crowd of 114,808. The Irish, however, used an effective opening drive to open up a quick 7-0 lead and take the crowd out of the game early. After the defense forced a three-and-out, Notre Dame again marched down the field on a 10-play, 83-yard drive to take a 14-0 lead just 5:55 into the con­test. Despite the fast start, the Irish could not put the game out of the Wolverines’ reach. 
“We started well,” Kelly said. “We’ve stumbled by making mis­takes.” 

The teams traded the ball a number of times before Michigan quarterback Denard Robinson had the game solidly in hand. moved the Wolverines to within took advantage of good field coach Brady Hoke elected to go found receiver Junior Heming-Robinson, however, led Michigan 30 yards of the end zone before position and a Michigan pass-for the end zone. way for a 43-yard touchdown on a quick scoring drive. The Irish cornerback Robert Blanton interference penalty to find ju-“They’re an explosive team pass. Robinson accounted for Wolverine drive was highlighted seemingly sealed the game with nior receiver Theo Riddick for and they want to make plays,” 338 passing yards, 108 rushing by a 77-yard pass from Robin-an interception in the end zone a 29-yard touchdown pass with senior linebacker Darius Flem-yards, four passing touchdowns son to Hemingway and a bizarre with just 4:23 remaining. But merely 30 seconds remaining on ing said. “It didn’t shock me and one rushing touchdown by scoring play on which the Irish it was not that simple, as Wood the clock. [that Michigan went for a touch-the end of the night. forced a goal-line fumble only could not convert on third-and-“I was proud of [Rees] after down.]” 
“Obviously he’s a great player,” to see the dreadlocked quarter-one just three plays later, and he made the big mistake … He Robinson found receiver Roy Irish sophomore quarterback back pick up the ball and scam-Michigan got the ball back with came back and led our football Roundtree in the corner of the Tommy Rees said. “He did a good per into the end zone untouched 2:16 left in the game. team to a key drive on the road,” end zone with just two seconds job fighting back and leading his on the first play of the fourth “In that scenario, we’ve got to Kelly said. “He kept battling, and remaining to set off a raucous team.” quarter. check out of the play and we’ve at the end you’re looking for your celebration in Michigan Stadium 
The Irish took a 17-7 lead into “There was no complacency,” got to throw the football because quarterback to lead you on the and cap off another rollicking halftime, but the lead seemed Kelly said. “[The Irish] were they had nine guys on the line of road, and he did a good job.” edition of the Michigan-Notre small considering the Irish dom-locked into the game … [Michi-scrimmage,” Kelly said Sunday While a three-point lead Dame rivalry. inance on the statistical sheet. In gan] made some plays when they in his postgame teleconference. seemed secure with only half a “Every time you see this game, the first half, Notre Dame had 15 needed to.” “We’ve got to continue to devel-minute remaining, Kelly said he you’re going to know that both first downs, 268 yards and 19:17 The unusual scoring play was op our third-and-short package was not comfortable even at that teams are going to fight to the of possession while the Wol-only the first chapter in a wild with [Rees.] juncture in the game. end,” Robinson said. “It’s never verines had only 3 first downs, fourth quarter. Robinson wasted no time in “I’m always thinking about over until you see zeroes on the 90 yards and 10:43 of posses-After Michigan scored another taking the lead, finding junior the next situation and talking clock.” sion. Irish junior running back touchdown to tighten the Irish running back Vincent Smith for about making a stop,” Kelly said. After two disappointing loss-Cierre Wood had 75 yards in the margin to 24-21, Rees efficiently a 21-yard touchdown pass to put “At 30 seconds, I wasn’t feeling es, Irish junior linebacker Manti first half on his way to 134 total led Notre Dame to the Michigan Michigan up 28-24 with merely comfortable.” Te’o was nearly despondent after yards. 7-yard line before losing a fum-1:12 left on the clock. Kelly’s discomfort was justified the game. But when asked if his 
“[Cierre] ran the ball well,” ble in a play that energized the But, with 72 seconds still on in a turn of events that electrified team would be able to bounce Kelly said. “I thought we gave Michigan faithful. the clock, Rees would not let the the home crowd. Robinson found back in time for next week’s him an opportunity to run the “The fumble, the interceptions Irish go down without a fight. receiver Jeremy Gallon all alone matchup with Michigan State, ball effectively in a number of — all of those were critical turn-“We were confident we could on the right side of the field for a Te’o had one, resolute response. different looks.” overs when we were moving the go down the field,” he said. “The 64-yard pass, which placed the “We have to,” he said. “It’s not 
Notre Dame extended its lead football,” Kelly said. “That’s not guys did a great job of hanging Wolverines at the Notre Dame ‘will we’ or ‘can we.’ We have to.” to 24-7 near the end of the third how we need to play.” together and sticking with it af-16-yard line with just eight sec-quarter, and with 17 minutes left Robinson found Hemingway ter my turnover.” onds remaining. Rather than go Contact Allan Joseph at in the game, it seemed the Irish again for a 45-yard gain and The sophomore gunslinger for a tying field goal, Michigan ajoseph2@nd.edu 

player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Denard Robinson Michigan quarterback Robinson accounted for 446 total yards and five touchdowns on the night, including two in the last 72 seconds for the comeback victory.  242 fourth-quarter yards Michigan had 242 of its 452 total yards in the fourth quarter on its way to four fourth-quarter touchdowns.  Denard Robinson’s 64-yard pass to Jeremy Gallon late in the fourth quarter. With only 30 seconds to take the ball 80 yards, Robinson’s 64-yard toss to Gallon set up the winning score.  “We’re not good enough ... When we’re better as a football team, we’ll start winning.” Brian Kelly Irish coach  

page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 12, 2011 
report card 



B­B+ B+ A­B+ B D+ B­C-
quarterbacks: Tommy Rees played well for most of the game, and his execu­tion on the last drive was fantastic. His three turnovers cost the Irish dearly in the tight game. 
running backs: Cierre Wood had anoth­er effective performance on the ground, and Jonas Gray added 66 useful yards. The backs struggled in short yardage, though, and Wood lost a fumble. 
receivers: Michael Floyd had another big game, and Theo Riddick played much better than he did last week. Rees still seemed like he didn’t have many options beyond Floyd. 
offensive line: The best unit of the game, the line helped the Irish earn 198 rushing yards and didn’t allow a sack. Still, they lost a couple of key short-yardage situations. 
defensive line: While the ends did a fairly good job of containing the explo­sive Robinson, they rarely got pressure to the quarterback and gave Robinson plenty of time to throw. 
linebackers: The linebackers also played a key role in limiting Robinson’s running ability. The last two Michigan drives were the linebackers’ worst mo­ments at the worst possible time. 
defensive backs: Robert Blanton was the lone bright spot on a night that saw Gary Gray get beat often. The second­ary made Robinson look like a much, much better passer than he actually is. 
special teams: The Irish didn’t have field position when they needed it, but Ben Turk, David Ruffer and the return­ers had better games this week than they did against South Florida. 
coaching: While the first quarter went well, Notre Dame did not adjust well to Michigan blitzes. The lack of play-action was suspect, and the playcalling was very predictable. 
overall: The Irish started fast and faded just as quickly. They made 
2.41 mistakes at the worst possible times, and it cost them a big win. 

adding up the numbers 
In his two meetings with Notre Dame,Denard Robinson has accounted for 948 of Michigan’s 984 yards. 

948 
5 
The Irish again committed five turn­overs Saturday. Notre Dame lost three 
interceptions and two fumbles. 
Notre Dame now ranks last out of 120 Football Bowl Subdivision teams in the turnovers-lost category. 

120 
Robinson averaged 30.7 yards percompleted pass, making each of his 11 
completions a big play. 
30.7
The Irish had the ball for just over 37minutes Saturday, an exceptionallyhigh number for a Brian Kelly offense. 

37 
72 
Notre Dame and Michigan combined for 21 points in the last 72 seconds of 

the game to create a wild finish. 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. — That’s all you needed to see. If you knew nothing about college football, Irish football or the rivalry between Notre Dame and Michigan before, Sat­urday’s game at Michigan Stadium is all you needed to see. Chris Masoud 

Granted, I’ve never been Assistant to an SEC Managing game under Editor the lights, a Texas-Okla­homa shootout or a hundred other college football masterpieces, but there was something mysti­cal about Saturday’s contest that I’ve never experienced before and never will again. And it wasn’t the throwback jerseys or the history behind a rivalry that has gone stale. 
The first night game at the “Big House” certainly won’t be the last. As predicted, Michigan fans filled the bowl until the stadium was just a sea of maize interspersed with the occasional blue or green. The Seven Nation Army chant raised the decibels to a new level, and I found out over 114,000 fans really do make a difference. 
But who could have predicted the way the jumbotron lights danced off the student body’s maize like lightning, or the full moon offset by a clear sky in place of expected showers or the final 72 seconds of a game that sent Notre Dame to an 0-2 record? 
Take yourself and this game out of context. Two unranked teams met on the second Saturday of Sep­tember and produced one of the greatest finishes in college football history. Saturday night is the rea­son this sport exists. It’s the rea­son fans sit through eight months of offseason workouts, booster-led scandals and recruiting updates — a chance to witness history. 
But ultimately nothing can be taken out of context. After Satur­day’s loss, Notre Dame is headed down a very dangerous path that could send a season that began with BCS hopes just 10 days ago into an irrecoverable tailspin. 
The quarterback situation couldn’t be clearer. Rees looks awful throwing on the run, and as Kirk Herbsreit said Friday, “he can’t move.” Yet when Rees avoids throwing into triple coverage and feeds the ball to Michael Floyd, he’s a very capable college quar­terback. Most Irish fans will re­member the sophomore’s resilien­cy and leadership as he marched the team down the field 61 yards to what many thought was the game-winning touchdown in the final minute, following an inexplicable fumble on the prior series. 
My moment of conversion came in the third quarter. Rees dropped back and waited, went through his progression, stayed in the pocket and led a cutting T.J. Jones with a throw that directed the receiver to the only available path to the end zone. Credit the offensive line, but also credit the patience of a quarterback who looks at ease in the pocket. 
On the other side of the ball, I’m comfortable with eight (the front seven included) of the 11 starters on a defense that looked like the team’s strength in week one, but turns out just isn’t good enough. 
That’s ultimately what makes the first quarter of Saturday’s loss 
— the best quarter I’ve seen in 40 games as a student — so painful. Notre Dame abused Michigan’s defense, took a vacuum to the Big House noise and made Denard Robinson look like a Pop Warner quarterback for 15 minutes. But successful teams find a way to win (and sometimes struggling teams find a way to lose). 
As Irish coach Brian Kelly said, the failures of this season don’t stem from a lack of effort or desire. Robert Blanton and Manti Te’o don’t chase down opponents from opposite sides of the field without that desire to win. The team, from the coaching staff to the players, just isn’t good enough. 
Right now. 
As we move on to mid-Septem­ber and a Michigan State team that could easily throw Notre Dame into an 0-3 hole and official­ly dash its BCS hopes, swallow the bitter pill of Saturday night, but don’t forget it. That’s how rivalries lose their passion. 
Instead, remember the first night game in the Big House as it was. Remember every touchdown and blown coverage, remember the exhilaration and the heartbreak. Remember why you’ll do it all again next week. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily The Observer. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 






This is what college football is all about 

Monday, September 12, 2011 The Observer u IRISH INSIDER ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


Defense willing to take the blame 

By CHRIS MASOUD 
Assistant Managing Editor 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. — Following a heart-wrenching 35-31 defeat at the hands of Michigan, many Irish fans have already begun the finger-point­ing. While costly turnovers on of­fense and miscues on special teams contributed to the collapse, much of that pointing has been aimed squarely at the defense. 
Heading into the fourth quarter with a 24-7 lead, the Wolverines posted four consecutive touchdown drives to steal a victory under the lights. Irish junior linebacker Manti Te’o said the experience was unlike any football he had ever played. 
“Never, and it’s something that I hope I don’t experience again,” Te’o said. 
With the Irish down four points in the final minute, sophomore quarter­back Tommy Rees connected with ju­nior wide receiver Theo Riddick for a 29-yard score. Michigan quarterback Denard Robinson responded with his fourth touchdown of the quarter. In just three plays and 28 seconds, the junior led the Wolverines 80 yards down the field, denying Notre Dame its first win of the season. 
“I’m surprised that obviously we weren’t able to hold on,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “Nobody would sit here and say, ‘30 seconds, you know, we’ve got a pretty good chance to win the game.’ But I’m not stunned. I’ve been in this business way too long.” 
Notre Dame suffocated Robinson and the Michigan offense to start the game, forcing consecutive three-and­outs and a number of errant throws. Robinson finished the first half with 48 yards passing after completing just two of nine passes, along with 40 yards on the ground. 

But the defense yielded in the sec­ond half, falling victim to a number of Robinson deep throws. Michigan receivers Junior Hemingway and Jeremy Gallon finished with a com­bined 243 yards catching and two touchdowns, including receptions of 77 and 43 yards. 
No play was bigger than Gallon’s 64-yard reception in the closing seconds of the half. Robinson con­nected with the uncovered receiver, who stretched the field and set up a 6-yard strike just one play later. 
“We were in quarters coverage,” Kelly said. “They ran double-post wheel. We’re supposed to expand with that, and we didn’t do a very good job of it.” 
Kelly expanded on that point in his teleconference Sunday. 
“There’s a couple of key coaching points on how you play that route,” he said. “It’s a very common route. It’s not like it’s something we haven’t seen before, so we’ll address that with those guys that were respon­sible for it.” 
Kelly added that fifth-year senior Gary Gray’s position as a starter was not at stake. Gray was targeted on a number of Michigan passes, includ­ing Robinson’s game-winning throw to receiver Roy Roundtree to seal the comeback. 
“I mean, you just got to make the decision really,” Kelly said. “Looking at Gary right now, he’s a senior. If you’re pulling him off the field, you’re pretty much making a decision that we’re going with a younger guy. We’re not at that point with Gary.” 
Freshman cornerback Lo Wood has yet to see significant playing time at a position where experience can be much more valuable than potential. Kelly remains confident Gray will bounce back following an uncharacteristic start to the season. 
“We’re two games into the sea­son,” Kelly said. “He’s got a lot of pride, and he’s a guy that has shown that he can bounce back from a tough game. The cornerback posi­tion is such that you’re put out on an island. Sometimes it doesn’t go your way. I’m very confident Gary’s going to bounce back next week.” 
Like Kelly, Te’o believes Notre Dame will make the necessary ad­justments in practice to prevent a similar breakdown by the defense. Despite the noise and distraction brought by over 114,000 fans in Michigan Stadium, Te’o said the de­fense accepts full responsibility. 
“That was all on us,” he said. “Michigan fans provided us with a great atmosphere to play college football. I really appreciate them for this environment and this atmo­sphere, and I feel real privileged to be part of this game.” 
In spite of the tendency to point fin­gers and single out individual plays or players, Rees, like Kelly, attributes the loss to the team’s overall inability to close out the game. 
“We had confidence in our defense, but we didn’t do enough ourselves,” Rees said. “By no means are we pointing fingers — it’s a team game. We still have confidence in the whole team.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 




Night game sets attendance mark 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. — Saturday’s contest was the first night game in Michigan Stadium’s 84-year history. 114,804 fans attended the game, the largest crowd in history to attend a football game, collegiate or profes­sional. This was the fourth time a Notre Dame-Michigan contest set a new NCAA attendance mark; the teams set records in 1993, 1999 and 2003, all at Michigan. 
Floyd sets more records 
Senior wide receiver Michael Floyd added to his record-breaking career with a career-best 13 recep­tions, the second-most catches in a single game in Notre Dame history. With a 21-yard catch in the first quarter, Floyd surpassed Golden Tate for the most receiving yards in Notre Dame history. Floyd’s 159­yard effort was the 15th time he surpassed 100 yards in a game, ty­ing him with Tate for the most 100­yard games in Irish history; Floyd has had at least 100 yards in 15 of the 32 games in which he has ap­peared. Saturday was the first time Floyd had more than 10 catches in two consecutive weeks. 

Last-minute heartbreak 
Michigan’s touchdown to take the lead with two seconds remain­ing in the game was the latest winning touchdown recorded by a Notre Dame opponent in Irish his­tory, coming later than Matt Lein­art’s score during the 2005 Notre Dame-USC game. Irish wide receiv­er Theo Riddick’s touchdown with 30 seconds remaining would have been the sixth-latest game-winning touchdown in Notre Dame history. 
Irish rushing falls short 
Junior running back Cierre Wood and senior running back Jonas Gray combined for 200 yards on the ground Saturday. Wood had 134 yards on 25 carries, while Gray add­ed 66 yards on just six carries. The 35-31 loss, however, marked the first time in 28 games Notre Dame lost when outrushing its opponent. The last time the Irish lost despite winning the ground game was in 2004, when Notre Dame fell 31-28 to Oregon State in the Insight Bowl. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 




scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
ND  14  3  7  7  31  
UM  0  7  0  28  35  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan 0 
Theo Riddick 7-yd pass from Tommy Rees (DavidRuffer kick) with 9:05 remainingDrive: 7 plays, 57 yards, 3:46 elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, Michigan 0 
Cierre Wood 4-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with 1:56remainingDrive: 10 plays, 83 yards, 5:35 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 14, Michigan 7 
Junior Hemingway 43-yd pass from Denard Robin­son (Brendan Gibbons kick) with 10:18 remainingDrive: 2 plays, 48 yards, 0:48 elapsed 
Notre Dame 17, Michigan 7 
David Ruffer 38-yd field goal with 1:40 remaining
Drive: 8 plays, 29 yards, 2:53 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 24, Michigan 7 
T.J. Jones 15-yd pass from Rees (David Ruffer kick)with 2:13 remainingDrive: 7 plays, 71 yards, 3:55 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 24, Michigan 14 
Denard Robinson 1-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with 
14:54remainingDrive: 4 plays, 83 yards, 2:19 elapsed 
Notre Dame 24, Michigan 21 
Jeremy Gallon 14-yd pass from Denard Robinson(Brendan Gibbons kick) with 10:47 remainingDrive: 5 plays, 40 yards, 2:35 elapsed 
Notre Dame 24, Michigan 28 
Vincent Smith 21-yd pass from Denard Robinson(Brendan Gibbons kick) with 1:12 remainingDrive: 5 plays, 58 yards, 1:04 elapsed 
Notre Dame 31, Michigan 28 
Theo Riddick 29-yd pass from Tommy Rees (DavidRuffer kick) with 0:30 remainingDrive: 4 plays, 61 yards, 0:42 elapsed 
Notre Dame 31, Michigan 35 
Roy Roundtree 16-yd pass from Denard Robinson(Brendan Gibbons kick) with 0:02 remainingDrive: 3 plays, 80 yards, 0:30 elapsed 


statistics 
rushing yards 

passing yards 

time of possession passing 

Rees             27-39-315  Robinson  11-24-338 
rushing 
Wood                   25-134 Robinson  16-108 
receiving 
Floyd                    13-159  Hemingway          3-165 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 12, 2011 


Night game nightmare 
The first-ever night game at Michigan Stadium was one for the ages, as Notre Dame and Michigan battled to a wild finish that gave the Wolverines a 35-31 victory over the Irish. A record crowd of 114,808 witnessed Michigan quarterback Denard Robinson put up another astonishing performance against the Irish, as Robinson accounted for 446 yards and five touchdowns. The two teams combined for 35 points in the fourth quarter, 21 of which came in the final 1:12. The loss dropped Notre Dame to 0-2; the Irish host Michigan State this Saturday. 
SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 



SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

Clockwise from top: Michigan receiver Junior Hemingway scores a touchdown; Notre Dame sophomore receiver T.J. Jones tiptoes down the sideline; Michigan cornerback 
J.T. Floyd holds Irish receiver Michael Floyd; Notre Dame safety Jamoris Slaughter looks at Wolverine receiver Kelvin Grady; Irish quarterback Tommy Rees fumbles. 


