
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Endowment pool continues to grow 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
When University Presi­dent Emeritus Fr. Ted Hes-burgh became president in 1952, Notre Dame’s endow­ment fund was approxi­mately $7 million. 
Today, Chief Investment Officer Scott Malpass said the University’s endow­ment fund for the 2010­2011 fiscal year amounts to over $7 billion. 
“Notre Dame’s endow­
ment growth over the last 
20 or 25 years has been 
one of the biggest rea­
sons we have been able to 
dream and do more,” Mal-
pass said. “This year we 
will end up [with our en­
dowment fund] at $7.3 bil­
lion. That’s about a 21.5 
percent return.” 
The value of the endow­
ment fund at the end of the 
2009-2010 fiscal year was 
about $6.1 billion, Malpass 
said. 
“We would want students 

to know that we have a financial aid to help them The University’s endow-one percent of institution-
sophisticated investment be here, endowed chairs so ment is traditionally one of al investors.” 
management operation try-we can recruit top faculty the best in the nation, Mal-The endowment fund fi­
ing to earn superior risk-and promote faculty … just pass said. nances a diverse range of 
adjusted returns so that we know that we are working “We’ve been one of the campus programs, he said. 
can help students and fac-hard to try to provide the top performing endow-“We talk about it like 
ulty realize their dreams,” resources to have students ments in the nation in the it’s one pool, but it’s actu-
Malpass said. “I mean that and faculty function at the last 15 or 20 years,” Mal-
very sincerely. Whether its highest level.” pass said. “We’re in the top see FUND/page 4 



Professor awarded book prize 
By ADRIANA PRATT 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Young people today are more ac­cepting of gay marriage, but more opposed to abortion than their parents’ generation. 
The “God gap,” or the polarization between the way religious and non­religious constituents vote, has wid ened over the past four to five years. 
Between one-third and one-half of married Americans are in inter­faith relationships. 
David Campbell, associate pro­fessor of political science at Notre Dame, published these find­ings and others in his 2010 book “American Grace: How Religion Divides and Unites Us.” 



see AWARD/page 3 

Campus Life Council sets University policy 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Although the Campus Life Council (CLC) has yet to meet this academic year, student body president Pat McCormick said the group would be instru­mental in the student union once its biweekly meetings be­gin. 
“[Campus Life Council] is the body that has the single great­est influence on University pol­icy, so I’m very excited to get started,” McCormick said. “It directly incorporates student advocacy into University policy.” 
McCormick said CLC has not met this year because the group has not received rector recom­mendations yet from Vice Presi­dent for Student Affairs Fr. Tom Doyle. 
“I am not able to appoint rec­tors or students affairs repre­sentatives,” McCormick said. “Without those individuals, the purpose of CLC isn’t able to be fulfilled.” 
McCormick said he hopes that student government will receive the rector recommendations soon. 
“We have made multiple re­quests for nominations and look forward to receiving them so that we can begin the work of the CLC,” he said. 
The CLC also includes stu­dent representatives from the Senate, Hall President’s Coun­cil (HPC), the Judicial Council and the Coalition Council. The council is intended to provide a forum where students, faculty and administrative personnel can discuss matters impacting student affairs, according to the bylaws. 
“The CLC makes policy sug­gestions directly to the vice president of student affairs,” McCormick said. “He or she is then required to submit a pub­lic response to each resolution.” 


see CLC/page 4 

Journalists evaluate social media 

By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
During an annual journal­ism forum Monday, Professor Robert Schmuhl held up the Sept. 2 issue of The Observer for the Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and De­mocracy Advisory Committee to see. 

He read the top headline aloud: “Notre Dame embrac­es social media use.” 
This headline is just one example of the increased popularity of Twitter and Facebook around the world, Schmuhl said. 
“What do Twitter, Facebook 
and all the other social net­
working technologies mean 
[not only] for practitioners of 
journalism, but also for those 
who receive news opinion and 
analysis?” Schmuhl asked. 
The Gallivan board mem­
bers, all experienced journal-
see PANEL/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC hosts constitution day panel  page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Girls and the redemption of pop-rock page 8 u Dealy leads ND volleyball page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u Day-to-Day Tuesday, September 20, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE BEST PLACE ON CAMPUS? 









www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Megan Doyle Anna Boarini Emma Russ 

Graphics 
Lauren Kalinoski 

Photo 
Thomas La 

Sports 
Joe Wirth Katie Heit 


Scene 

Marissa Frobes 

Viewpoint 
Ren Brauweiler 
Bridget Apfeld  Caroline Lang  Joe Germino  Leon Zhou  Melissa O’Brien  
junior McGlinn  sophomore Badin  freshman Keough  senior Stanford  freshman Badin  
“South Dining Hall.”  “People-watching in LaFortune.”  “The Grotto.”  “My bed.”  “South Quad.”  




Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Message in a bottle found five years later 
PACIFIC MISSILE RANGE FACILITY, Hawaii — A Jap­anese school girl’s note in a bottle dropped into the ocean five years ago has been found washed up on Hawaii’s shores. 
Petty Officer Jon Moore stumbled upon the clear glass bottle Thursday dur­ing a beach cleanup at the Pacific Missile Range Facil­ity on Kauai. 
Inside, he found a note from Saki Arikawa, four ori­gami flowers, and a photo of Saki’s sixth grade class in Kagoshima. 
The note was dated March 25, 2006. It read, “I wrote this letter because we’ll graduate elementary school 


LOCAL WEATHER 
so I wanted it to be a gradu­ation memory.” 
Akira Nakashima, the principal of Kokubu Ele­mentary School in Kagoshi­ma, confirmed that Saki graduated from the school five years ago and that her class tossed the bottle from a nearby bay marking the event. 
“It’s just amazing that the bottle was found. I’m so de­lighted by the heartwarm­ing news,” Nakashima said. 
Man takes drunken tractor ride, assaults police 
OHIOVILLE, Pa. — A Penn­sylvania man is accused of assaulting a police officer after he was arrested on a drunken-driving charge — aboard a lawn tractor. 

Police say they were re­sponding to a 911 call re­porting an “out of control male” when they encoun­tered 44-year-old Mark Grove, of Ohioville, driving the tractor down the middle of the road Thursday after­noon. 
Police say a coffee mug sitting on the tractor con­tained beer and say Grove told them, “I’m drunk. Just take me home.” 
Instead, police arrested Grove. That’s when they say he kicked an officer and head-butted a squad-car partition. 
Online court records don’t list an attorney for Grove. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press 


IN BRIEF 
Debra Javeline, associ­ate professor of Political Science, will give a lecture entitled “After Violence: Participation Over Violence in Beslan” today from 12:30 to 2 p.m. The lecture is free and will be held in the Hes-burgh Center room C103. 
William Saunders, mem­ber of the national organi­zation Americans United for Life, will give a lecture from 
12:30 to 1:30 p.m. today. The lecture will adress the international right to abor­tion and will be held in the 
Eck Hall of Law room 1140. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins will give a faculty address today in the Decio Mainstage Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. He will speak about programs within each of the colleges. The address will be held from 4 to 5:15 p.m. 
The Center for Social Con­cerns will hold an informa­tional meeting for the Inter­national Summer Service Learning Program (ISSLP) tonight from 7 to 8 p.m. The meeting will be held in the McNeill Library in Geddes Hall. Applications for ISSLP are available online. 
O. Henry Prize-winning author Melanie Rae Thon will read from her book “In This Light” on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. The reading is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to  obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 











CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Tuesday, September 20, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


Award 
continued from page 1 
“America has uniquely found a way to accommodate its religious devotion, diversity and tolerance by building bridges across reli­gious lines in our workplaces, in our neighborhoods and in our homes,” Campbell said. 
Campbell co-authored the text with Robert Putnam, professor of public policy at Harvard Univer­sity. 
The American Political Science Association awarded Campbell and Putnam with the 2011 Wood­row Wilson Foundation Award this year. The award is presented annually for the best book on gov­ernment, politics or international affairs, according to the founda­tion’s website. 
“Religion has always been a constant in American society, but we are living in a period of great religious change,” Campbell said. “Our book speaks to that change.” 
Though Americans are becom­ing more comfortable with people of other religions, Campbell said they are also increasingly pulling away from endorsing a mix of re­ligion and politics. 

“The mixture of religion and politics is very tempting for poli­ticians,” Campbell said. “That’s particularly true for Republican politicians. That’s why we are seeing in this presidential race … multiple candidates who speak very openly about their own reli­giosity and want to be identified as a candidate who is highly re­ligious.” 
As religion intermingles with politics, Campbell said Mormon Republican presidential can­didates Mitt Romney and Jon Huntsman might face difficulty in gaining support from the Evan­gelical sector in the primary race. 
“Especially among Evangeli­cal Christians, it doesn’t matter whether you’re a devout Mormon or not,” Campbell said. “The con­cern they have [about the Mor­mon religion] runs deep.” 
A Mormon himself, Campbell said that as a member of a reli­gious minority, he was interested in exploring the progression of people’s acceptance of other reli­gions. 
“My own family is a good illus­tration of people building bridges across religions,” Campbell said. “I have many aunts and uncles who are not Mormon.” 
Campbell and Putnam began working on the book in 2005, Campbell said. They conducted their first survey in 2006 and 

College celebrates 
completed the study in 2010. 
The professors used two pri­mary methods to conduct their research. 

Constitution Day 
“One was the ‘Faith Matters’ survey, which was a large na­tionally representative telephone survey where we asked people all sorts of stuff about their religions, families and civic involvement,” Campbell said. 
Campbell and Putnam also conducted a series of ethnogra­phies, or studies of the customs and cultures of religious congre­gations across the country. 
After collecting the data over a span of five years, “American Grace” was completed. Now, the award-winning book serves as the main text for Campbell’s course called “Religion in Ameri­can Politics.” 
“Basically our initial idea was that we should do a study of re­ligious diversity in America,” Campbell said. “From there, it grew into a much larger project not just about religious diversity, but religion in general.” 
Contact adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 


Pierce said, “So let’s take a look at the intention of the framers.” 
Pierce analyzed the docu­ment’s Second Amendment, which protects the right to bear arms. 
After their experiences with Great Britain’s militant oppres­sion, the framers of the Consti­tution feared the tyranny of a national army, Pierce said. They designed the amendment to de­fend against a national militia. 
Pierce drew on several Su­preme Court cases, including 
U.S. v. Miller in 1939, to show the judicial system’s interpreta­tion of the amendment. These rulings upheld the founder’s initial intentions, he said. 
“Your right to [bear arms] … has to be arms that could rea­sonably be employed again the national army,” Pierce said. 
History Professor Bill Svelmoe focused on the role of religion in national politics. 
“Is America a Christian na­tion?” Svelmoe asked the audi­ence. 
Americans often call the United States “God’s chosen country,” Svelmoe said, but the founders of the United States did not intend to create a Chris­tian nation. 
As they built the Constitution, these men all rejected the Euro­pean tendency to tie church and state, Svelmoe said. 
Unlike many other countries, Svelmoe said the United States did not mention God or religion in any part of the Constitution besides the First Amendment. 
Despite this, religion is a still hot-button issue inside and outside the political arena to­day. Religious play has entered America’s political system dur­ing candidate debates at elec­tion time, Svelmoe said. 
“If you pay attention at all during the next few years, you are going to hear a lot of talk about God,” he said. 
Catherine Pellegrino, librar­ian at the Cushwa-Leighton Li­brary, spoke about censorship and the First Amendment. 
“[The First Amendment is] ev­eryone’s favorite amendment … and everyone’s favorite clause,” Pellegrino said. “As soon as you start talking about free speech you immediately [jump to] the topic of censorship.” 
Pellegrino cited several ex­amples of censorship, ranging from a controversial book with­held from display in a library, to a threat against a newspaper by a local Congressional represen­tative. 
However, Pellegrino said none of these examples actually violated the Constitution. 
“If you recall…the first amendment actually reads, ‘Congress shall make no law… abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press,’” Pel­legrino said. “Notice how it says Congress. Not the newspaper, not a bookstore, not the library, not publishers; Congress,” she said. 
However, Pellegrino said the Cushwa-Leighton Library es­tablished strict guidelines to prevent books from being re­moved purely on prejudicial bases. 
Different interpretations of the Constitution and its amend­ments create controversy in li­braries around the nation, she said. 
Contact tabitha Ricketts at  tricke01@saintmarys.edu 
By TABITHA RICKETTS 
News Writer 

Exactly 224 years after the ratification of the Constitution of the United States, three Saint Mary’s faculty members said controversy still surrounds the document’s interpretation. 
The panelists participated in a discussion Monday titled “Constitutional Tensions: Ne­gotiating Consensus and Con­troversy in the 21st Century” in Haggar Hall and focused on the right to bear arms, the role of religion in national politics and censorship. 
Political Science Professor Patrick Pierce asked the panel­ists to place themselves in the mindset of the Constitution’s authors. 
“[Supreme Court Justice John Roberts and the rest of the Su­preme Court] consistently look at the intention of the framers,” 
page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEwS Tuesday, September 20, 2011 
Fund 
continued from page 1 
ally almost 5,000 differ­ent funds set up for schol­arships, endowed chairs for senior faculty, for the library, for various aca­demic programs,” Malpass said. 
The largest portion of the Univer­sity’s endow­ment supports endowment fund’s current figures show a significant rebound from those num­bers. 

“If you had told me that we would have a crisis where most of the world’s big banks were insolvent because of the subprime and … that basically three years later we would have recovered our value from the drop and actually be at a new high and not have to cut 
“I still think we have a couple of years of volatil­ity and uncertainty and probably modest returns,” Malpass said. “That was a pretty nice rebound, 21.5 percent, but now we have to build the rest based on some real economic growth. This fiscal year is likely to be more mod­est than that … It’s hard to know, but we’re going to keep at it.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at 

financial aid. spending, mdoyle11@nd.edu 
“We are a pretty big 
Malpass said I would 
venture investor. I
about a third have never 
don’t think students 
of the fund though t
today realize that we 
contributes to that could scholarships were one of the early happ en, ” and fellow-investors in Google, in Malp ass ships. Yahoo, in YouTube.” said. “It’s a 
“Our fi-wonderful nancial aid outcome.” 
Scott Malpass 
program The Of-
Chief Investment Officer 
has just got­ten so strong here over the years,” Mal-pass said. “I remember in 1990, we spent about $5 million on grant aid, ac­tually scholarship aid to students. This year we spent $100 million … A big portion of that is funded through endowment.” 
While the market reels in the United States and abroad, Malpass said he is also proud Notre Dame’s investment portfolio con­tinues supporting pro­grams at the University. 
“We did not have to cut our endowment spending,” Malpass said. “We did not have to cut faculty and staff or any programs as a result of the crisis … And because we didn’t have to cut endowment spending, we were able to hire some tremendous young new faculty that in the past we wouldn’t have been able to afford. That’s a huge posi­tive for the University.” 
Notre Dame’s endowment supports almost 400 fac­ulty chairs across all de­partments. Despite volatile markets, Malpass said the endowment also continued to support financial aid over the past few years. 
“That’s probably what my team is most proud about 
— what that increase in fi­nancial aid has done over the years for the quality and diversity fice of In­
vestment 
did not fal­

ter in its philosophy during difficult financial times, Malpass said. 
“We know that we have a good, broadly diversi­fied portfolio,” Malpass said. “We have good man­agers. We invest all over the world in all kinds of different asset classes, so that protected us some. It was a huge meltdown in the markets and everybody lost money, but relatively, we did okay.” 
This portfolio includes a number of start-up invest­ments that have seen huge success, Malpass said. 
“We are a pretty big ven­ture investor,” he said. “I don’t think students today realize that we were one of the early investors in Google, in Yahoo, in You­Tube.” 
Notre Dame’s identity as a Catholic university influ­ences its endowment, Mal-pass said. 
“We comply with the bishops’ guidelines on in­vesting, so we have some restrictions based on Cath­olic social teaching,” he said. 
The University does not invest in companies that violate these guidelines, Malpass said. For example, Notre Dame’s investment managers would not work with 

of  the  stu­ “We’ve been one of  companies  
dent body,” Malpass said. “It’s just been fabulous to watch these t a l e n t e d young people  the top performing endowments in the nation in the last 15 or 20 years. We’re in the top 1 percent of instutitional investors.”  involved in stem cell resea rch, contracep­tives or pornogra­phy.  
from all  over  “I  don’t   
the country and the world  Scott Malpass Chief Investment Officer  think that [ C at h o ­ 

come here and be able to afford it.” 
The Uni­versity’s investment port­folio was down about 20 percent — compared to about 30 percent at peer institutions — during the depths of the financial cri­sis several years ago, Mal-pass said. However, the lic social teaching] limits us in terms 

of getting good returns, though,” Malpass said. “I think it’s just part of who we are.” 
The future of the econ­omy is uncertain, Mal-pass said, but he remains “hopeful.” 
CLC 
continued from page 1 

The bylaws stipulate that all resolutions passed by the CLC must receive  majority vote from two-thirds of the members present at a meeting. 
Chief of staff Claire Sokas, now a senior, sat on CLC during her sophomore year. 
“I think it’s really important to meet because having the op­portunity to discuss student affairs issues directly with rec­tors and other faculty allows us to get a better perspective on their opinion,” she said.  “We all had the goal of bettering the University in mind.” 
McCormick said CLC provides a valuable opportunity for stu­dents to speak with staff from the Office of Student Affairs. 
“It allows us to learn the background and history of is­sues that may have predated our arrival to Notre Dame,” he said. 
Contact Emily Schrank at eshrank@nd.edu 

Tuesday, September 20, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
BAVO screens film on domestic abuse 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
The slogan for the documenta­ry “Sin by Silence” reads “Prison is safer than the love of your life.” 
Saint Mary’s Belles Against Violence Office (BAVO) screened the documentary Monday eve­ning to educate students about the cycle of domestic violence and its consequences. 
The 2009 documentary studies women sentenced to life in pris­on for murdering their abusive husbands. The women featured in the documentary act from be­hind bars as advocates against domestic violence. 
Senior Taylor Paton serves on BAVO’s Student Advisory Com­mittee. She said the film is one way to educate the student body about domestic violence as a so­cial problem. 
“The most important thing to take away from [this movie] is that we need to raise aware­ness of domestic violence issues,” Paton said. “We need to educate people in the options and the cy­cle of violence.” 
Program director Connie Ad­ams said BAVO chose the film because it is a striking example of the consequences of abuse. 
“The issues of domestic vio­lence, sexual assault and stalk­ing are prevalent issues in our society,” Adams said. “However, they are often overlooked or ig­nored.” 
Many people do not under­stand the reality of domestic abuse, Adams said. 
“It is difficult to address issues which are misunderstood for one primary reason ¾ an effective solution reflects a problem,” Ad­ams said. “If a social problem is misunderstood, the solution can­not be fully effective.” 
Adams said the documentary is a “particularly powerful film.” 
“[‘Sin by Silence’] demon­strates the complexity of rela­tionship violence and matches a face with the issue,” Adams said. “Furthermore, it highlights women who have taken action and created change despite the injustices they have endured. Events which empower attend­ees to take action are central to the aims of BAVO.” 
The movie and panel discus­sion are a means to educate women about the real stories of domestic violence, Adams said. 
“This is one reason Saint Mary’s College has instituted the Belles Against Violence Office on campus,” she said. “It is a proac­tive response to end violence.” 
After the film, Professor Leon­ard Sanchez led a panel discus­sion. Sanchez, a member of the Department of Social Work, shared stories from his time working in the Arizona police department. 
He also addressed the need for improvement in the courts’ han­dling of domestic abuse cases. 
Sophomore Mallory Welsh said the discussion and film were eye-opening. 
“One thing I really learned from this movie and discussion panel was how much the courts don’t care about the victims,” Welsh said. “The courts aren’t as emotionally invested in the vic­tims as the social workers are. People are very uneducated.” 
Welsh said Sanchez’s exam­ples of unbalance in the court system struck her as unjust. In some states, Sanchez said a per­son who shoots and kills a home intruder would be held less ac­countable for the death than a woman who shoots and kills an abusive husband who attacks her. 
“[That explanation] really made me mad,” Welsh said. “I can’t believe that both cases aren’t viewed as self defense. I learned that though the courts have made some progress in tackling abuse cases, there is still a long way to go. They need to improve.” 
Domestic abuse is an issue that deserves more attention in order to stop this cycle of vio­lence, Welsh said. 
“The community needs more events to bring awareness,” she said. “We need to educate people because education is what brings change.” 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 
Panel 
continued from page 1 
ists, focused their discussion on this shift toward constant online updates and its conse­quences. 
Meg Martin, online editor for “The Roanoke Times,” said journalism’s engagement with social media is a result of readers’ demand for great­er accessibility. 
“It’s about bringing [sto­ries] to where people are,” Martin said. “Some people want [stories] to show up in their pockets, on their iPads or phones. Some say they want them to show up on Facebook or in their Twitter feeds.” 
For Monica Yant Kinney, metro columnist for The Phil­adelphia Enquirer, social me­dia is also a valuable tool for receiving feedback and gaug­ing public interest. 
“[Facebook] is an ongoing dialogue between people who have some interest in what I’m doing or what we’re doing at the paper,” she said. “If two or three total strangers find a topic engaging, I think a few hundred thousand readers might find it engaging.” 
While many news organi­zations now see social media as a necessity, Kinney said it could also be a positive op­portunity. 
“We are totally powerless to change a lot of these trends in our industry,” Kinney said. “My theory is that this is about enhancing and further building my brand and my employer’s brand.” 
Kelley Tuthill, a reporter for WCVB-TV in Boston, said the responsibility to main­tain an on-line pres-low the pro­ceedings and tweet the whole time,” she 

said.  
Despite  the  challenge,  
Tuthill  believes  the  social  
media  element  enhanced  

WCVB-TV’s overall coverage. “People loved it,” Tuthill said. “I can’t tell you how many people told me, ‘You made me feel like I was in 
ence poses a stressful but exciting c h a l l e nge for journal­ists. “ W e ’ r e  “We’re expectd to tweet. If I go out on a story, I’m expected to tweet through out the day. There’s a live feed all day long on our website.”  the court­room.’ I heard from victims’ families that they followed it.” Tuthill did,  
e x p ec t ed to tweet,”  Kelley Tuthill  however, ex­press concern  
Tuthill said. “If I go out  broadcast reporter WCVB-TV  that media social  cov­ 
on a story,  erage  may  
I’m  expect- distract  re­ 

ed to tweet throughout the porters from focusing on the day. There’s a live feed all day traditional print, online or 

long on our website.” broadcast story. 
This summer, Tuthill cov-“Now you get 140-char­ered the notorious mob-acter updates nonstop,” she ster Joseph said. “We’re “Whi tey” doing that. 
Bulger’s tri-“We are totally powerless We’re tak­al. She said to change a lot of these ing pictures. the case test-trends in our industry. My In some ed her ability theory is that this is about cases, we’re to balance enhancing and further recording 
traditional videos on 
building my brand and 
reporting our iPhones. 
my employers brand.” 
with social Something’s media cover-got to give, 
Monica Yant Kinney 
age. sure. At the 
“It’s really columnist end of the hard to fol- The Philadelphia Enquirer day — six 

o’clock — is 
there an ef­fect on the quality [of the broadcast story]? Maybe.” 
While social media may take its toll on broadcast and print products, Twitter and Facebook are not a death sentence for the industry, Bill Mitchell, head of Entre­preneurial and International Programs at the Poynter In­
stitute  for  Media  Studies,  
said.  
“[Social  media]  is  part­ 

ly supplanting traditional means of distribution, which, in the long-run is not a bad thing,” Mitchell said. “If we can distribute through Face­book instead of trucks and gasoline, I think that’s not a bad thing.” 
Despite the advantages of social media, the panelists said journalists should still use caution in their online updates. 
Anne Thompson, chief environmental affairs cor­respondent for NBC News, said journalists must be con­science of how their use of social media may reflect on their organizations. 
“It’s dangerous, I under­stand, having done this for many years now, [determin­ing] where the line is be­tween the personal and pro­fessional,” Thompson said. “If you’ve got the [NBC logo] pea­cock on your picture or ‘NBC’ at the end of your name, what you’re doing is representative of the network, not just you.” 
While readers continue to demand constant updates via Twitter and Facebook, Thompson said social media would never eliminate their desire for developed news stories. 
“I don’t think journalism is going to come down to 140 characters,” Thompson said. “It’s one tool, but you can’t be an informed citizen if all you follow is Twitter. Excellent writing is always going to be the most important part of journalism — that is always going to be king.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, September 20, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Missing 
Mom’s 

cooking 
The past few weeks my roommates and I found one of the most dramatic channels on T.V. No, it’s not TNT (they don’t know drama … ) or MTV (as much as I love the “Jersey Shore,” it’s getting a bit stale). There’s only one channel on TV that truly grabs my attention: The Food Network. 
Now before you begin to judge us for indulging in the likes of “Iron Chef America” and “Chopped,” ask yourself why you aren’t watching professional chefs pan sear chicken to perfection and bake the perfect cupcake. While we really are blessed with decent dining halls, acceptable on-campus eateries and off-campus restaurants on par with any medium sized city in the country, Food Network has the ability to show what food could be. 
Since birth, I have been spoiled by my mom’s incredible cooking (those of my friends lucky enough to try her samosas know what I’m talking about). More than being home or away from classes, what I look forward to most during summer and winter breaks is Indian food — food that actually has flavor and complex textures. 
As I said, we have really exceptional food services on campus, but it can’t compare or even come close to freshly made naan, chicken tikka masala and daal mahkni. Unfortunately, I haven’t gotten accustomed to the standard arbi­trary cut of meat, some form of potatoes and a mixture of boiled vegetables for dinner every night like my roommate has. 
Instead, I’ve been accustomed to the spices, aromas, curries and abundance of vegetarian options as the central part of a meal. The unique pairing of flavors in Indian cooking, such as cheese cubes in a creamy spinach (saag paneer), is yet another thing that keeps my stom­ach unsatisfied after a trip to South Dining Hall. Nothing on this planet (oth­er than potentially a red velvet cupcake) is as utterly delicious as Indian food. 
Now a disclaimer on what the din­ing halls label “Indian food” — spoiler alert, it isn’t. While I appreciate the effort, half of the dishes have names that I’ve never heard of despite spend­ing significant time in India and literally eating Indian food every day whilst home. The other half of the dishes served hardly resembles their namesake (the channa masala had no masala… ) and unfortunately don’t do the cuisine justice. 
Fortunately for those of us who crave the flavors of the Indian peninsula, I have learned a great deal from watch­ing Food Network and am cooking dinner for any and all who would like to join me this Thursday. Just kidding. But seriously, there’s a pretty good Indian restaurant down the road on Edison named India Garden and I’m always looking for people to go there with me. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ankur Chawla at       achawla@nd.edu 


Palestine’s bid for 
U.N. membership 
Throughout most of its history, the United States has sought to be seen by the rest of the international commu­nity as the world’s foremost promoter of freedom, democracy and human rights. While instances of America failing to uphold these virtues are both numerous Ryan Williams and often quite em­barrassing, seldom freethoughts are they as brazen or ill-conceived as what is likely to occur at the United Nations this Friday, Sept. 23. 
It is on this day that the President of the Palestinian Authority, Mahmoud Ab­bas, plans to seek recognition of Pales­tine as a full U.N. member state. Presi­dent Obama has vowed that the United States, on behalf of its close “ally” Israel, will exercise its Security Council veto to prevent that from happening. This would be a tremendous mistake and would en­sure that hatred of America continues festering in the Middle East for years to come. 
The United States’ support for the creation of the State of Israel in 1948 is one of the single greatest foreign policy blunders in our history and has resulted in nothing but unmitigated disaster for this country. Vetoing Palestinian mem­bership in the United Nations would only be doubling down on a thoroughly failed and discredited strategy. 
The history of the Palestinian people since the birth of Israel is a tale of end­less tragedy, grief and despair. Driven from their homes in the face of Israeli tanks and bulldozers, most Palestin­ians have spent the last 60 years either suffering under the cruel oppression of Israeli occupation or attempting to eke 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
out a squalid existence in the miserable refugee camps that dot the landscapes of the surrounding Arab states. Along the way, the United States has supported practically every single action undertak­en by the Israeli government, enabling and abetting their creation of an apart­heid state in Palestine and generating overwhelming enmity towards America among the people of the Arab world. 
For nearly 20 years, Israeli and Pales­tinian negotiators have tried to broker an agreement that would bring an end to their destructive conflict, and 20 years later they have made extraordinarily lit­tle progress in resolving their most divi­sive issues. 
Part of the reason for this deadlock is the incredible disparity between the bargaining power of Israel and that of the Palestinian Authority. In attempt­ing to gain recognition as a full United Nations member state, the Palestinians are merely trying to gain international status as a sovereign government, on equal footing with the State of Israel. This would allow them to vote and pro­pose resolutions in the U.N. General As­sembly, to bring claims against other na­tions in the International Court of Justice and to pursue charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity against Israeli military personnel and government offi­cials at the International Criminal Court. 
President Obama has thus far parroted the Israeli argument that any resolution to the conflict must come not through unilateral action such as a direct appeal for statehood, but rather through the same direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority that have thus far resulted in little more than 20 years of stalemate. 

Meanwhile, with each passing day Israeli settlers seize more Palestinian land, forcing Palestinians from their homes and leaving them with no other option than to turn to more desperate forms of resistance. 
These are the people that the United States should be supporting, the op­pressed and downtrodden, those too weak to stand up and defend themselves in the face of tyranny. This was once seen to be at the heart of America’s duty and responsibility to the rest of the world, and we as a nation have strayed much too far from this path. 
Defenders of the apartheid regime in Palestine like to argue that Israel is the only true liberal democracy in the Mid­dle East, and thus the United States has an imperative to support her. And yet only recently, the parliament of our great friend and compatriot in freedom passed a law making it illegal for Israeli citizens to boycott Israeli goods, a measure that desecrates the core American value of freedom of speech. 
Clearly, it is time to reconsider this relationship. President Obama has the opportunity this Friday to take that first step, to begin the process of rebuilding America’s shattered credibility and re­spect and to show the world that we will stand with those who seek freedom and justice once again. It is an opportunity that he would be foolish to miss. 
Ryan Williams is a junior. He can be reached at twilli15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily that of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I think people don’t place a high enough value on how much they are nurtured by doing whatever it is that totally absorbs them.” 
Jean Shinoda Bolen American author 

WEEKLY POLL 
What kind of phone do you own? 
Android Blackberry iPhone Dumb phone 

Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Tuesday, September 20, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
Who cares?  You should 
Mr. J. Sandberg, 

In your piece in The Observer on Sept. 19, you ask the question (in the title) “Poli­tics and Evolution: who cares?” You then go on to assert that discussion concerning biological evolution does not matter in a Kenneth E. presidential debate. Filchak Thank you for your article, for it displays Guest how scientific igno-Columnist rance and misunder­standing can creep into many aspects of our lives, even politics. 
To my way of thinking, questioning can­didates concerning scientific ideas is not only important but also essential. National political figures have enormous power not only over education, but also policy acute to issues such as global climate change, management of natural resources (e.g., fisheries) and last but certainly not least human health (e.g., stem cell research). 
How do our leaders make quality choices about such issues? One answer that I have heard repeatedly is they have “advisors” for such things; therefore they really do not have to have any of this knowledge themselves. Think about this for a moment. This is a policy of “I really don’t need to know about X because I have other people who will know for me.” Is this good policy for anyone in such a leader­ship position? 
While it is certainly the case that any person, even a politician, cannot be an expert in every field, a modest level of scientific literacy from one of the most powerful and influential people in the world is essential. 
For example, the phrase “believe in evolution” is one that is used often, even in your own article. Scientific ideas are not evaluated by belief. They are proposals that are tested with evidence. 
One may “believe” in the Easter Bunny, but not evolution or any other scientific idea. To have confidence in a scientific idea requires evidence, and lots of it. 
Take a phrase from our former Presi­dent George W. Bush concerning evolu­tion and intelligent design being taught in schools: Bush reportedly said, “I think we should teach the debate.” 
While some have castigated the former president for this comment, I think we can actually give him a bit of slack here. Debate and intellectual exchange sound like perfectly sound principles, and indeed in most aspects of intellectual life they are. 
However, science is not an egalitarian philosophy. It is true that, in the realm of science, any idea can be proffered, but those ideas consistent with the evidence that are given priority. This is why we do not discuss astrology in high school astronomy courses or the Earth being flat in geology courses. 
As one colleague said, “[I]t’s fine if you are the president of the Flat Earth Society, but do not ask us to teach this in school as a scientific equivalent”. 
If a presidential candidate was highly informed about chemistry, for example, but did not know much about evolution, this shortcoming might be excusable. However, my perception of your advice to the Republican Party debate is not along this path. 

When politicians affirm their lack of “belief” in a particularly well-supported scientific idea, such as evolution, this is a troubling signal for their future policy decisions involving any scientific phe­nomenon. Therefore, moderators and the public should actively pursue questions involving science such as evolution, stem cell research and energy use. 
Perhaps I am alone in my opinion, but if any of our politicians “believe” in the Tooth Fairy, astrology or any such idea, I think it best if we know before they be­come our President. 
Kenneth E. Filchak is a lecturer in biological sciences. He can be reached at Kenneth.Filchak.1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily that of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Time for change 
Finally, some sense from current Notre Dame students Kyla Wargel and Cody Gaffney (“Rally all of Notre Dame,” Sept. 
19) about an issue some of us alums have been supporting since our days on cam­pus back in the early 1980s. Last I recall, the student population at Notre Dame is now 50/50 men vs. women instead of 100 percent male back before 1972. 
It’s sad to read the rather childish comments from those responding online. Just like believing that the childish act of raising fists during the victory march on the words “her” and “sons” is supposed to somehow recognize the contributions of women on campus, when all it does is reinforce the misogynistic attitude among the “mature” sons of Notre Dame. 
The University survived the accep­tance of women as regular students, its first tenured female professor, a female drum major for the band and the selec­tion of a female member into the fra­ternity known as the Irish Guard. Also, all three of the last single-sex national championship teams were women (soc­cer, basketball). 
Some are right — changing the lyrics is not going to achieve world peace or solve all the world’s social problems. But it does recognize a human trait we are called to demonstrate to one another — respect.  It’s time for Notre Dame stu­dents and alums to accept that women now comprise an equal if not a majority role on campus and show them the re­spect they have always deserved. 
“While her loyal sons and daughters march on to victory!” 
Eduardo Magallanez 
alumnus Class of 1983 Sept. 19 
UWIRE 

Study finds contractors waste government cash 
Hiring private contractors to do work for the federal government costs more than having a federal employee do the same work, according to a new study by the Project on Government Oversight. In fact, on average, contractors charge the Editorial Board government twice as much as it pays federal Minnesota workers. Daily 
There has been an ideological push since the 1980s to out­source government work to the private sector. Supporters have justified this by claiming that the private sector will do the work more cheaply, but this argu­ment is divorced from the reality of government contracts. 
Private contractors have been rip­ping the federal government off for decades. For example, in May Boeing had to refund the U.S. Army for massive overcharges — in one case, the company charged almost $1,700 for an $8 spare part. 
The Commission on Wartime Con­tracting also found that private con­tractors have wasted or lost more than $30 billion in taxpayer money in Iraq and Afghanistan since the wars began. That’s a sixth of the money we have paid them. 
The ideological pushers for outsourc­ing government to the private sector shouldn’t plead ignorance, either. All the way back in 1991, a congressional study found that the government could save money by using its own employees instead of private contractors. 
Fiscal hawks who demand cuts in gov­ernment spending should take careful note of these reports — they are usually the same people who want to cut the federal workforce and sell off govern­ment functions to the private sector. In­stead of being blinded by ideology, they must engage with the reality of govern­ment contracting. 
This column first appeared in the Sept. 15 edition of the Minnesota Daily, the daily publication serving the University of Minnesota. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily that of The Observer. 

Why change? 
Ms. Wargel and Mr. Gaffney, 

On Sept. 19 (“Rally all of Notre Dame,”) you proposed changing the words of the fight song to make it more “gender-inclusive.” Upon read­ing it, my moral compass began to shift. Not because I support you in this endeavor, but rather because I swore to myself around this time last year that I would never write a Viewpoint article during my time at Notre Dame. While the occasional Viewpoint provides insightful com­mentary, the majority are merely a forum for the passive aggressiveness and senseless whining that are all too prevalent on this campus. Your article has proven to be the rule, rather than the exception. 
Having grown up with three sisters and no brothers (even my Beagle is a girl), I feel that I am more in tune with the complexity of feminine emotions than many of my male counterparts. Having said this, how­ever, I see absolutely no need to alter any portion of the song. If we make the changes that you proposed, we must ask ourselves this: Where does it end? 
Should we burn every history textbook that has ever been written and change the word “human” to “humyn” as some feminists have proposed? The fiscal costs associated with such an endeavor would be astronomi­cal, and in these trying economic times, such an effort could send the United States back to the Stone Age. This argument really comes down to opportunity cost. Is it really worth it to you to expend the time and energy associated with making these switches? As you stand together as “one” with the entire student body on football Saturdays, are you re­ally so offended that you refuse to sing along? If so, I pity you. Life is too short for this nonsense. 
Chris Grant 
sophomore Zahm Hall Sept. 19 

Keep the fight in the Fight Song 
How to create a controversy in The Observer: complain about an issue that is not an issue to the majority of the student body, and, if possible, insult those who love Notre Dame (“Rally all of Notre Dame,” Sept. 19). 
I would hope that by this point, it’s a given that women are a respect­ed and important part of life here at Notre Dame. A lot of great things have been accomplished with women around, and I think it trivializes those accomplishments to portray us as victims. As a woman myself, I find it rather hard to believe that all this time by singing the words “her loyal sons,” I have been disenfranchising myself. Kyla and Cody, I challenge you to find someone who has been harmed directly by our traditional lyrics. Find me a woman who does not feel welcome here specifically because of our songs, and if you do, I’d like to talk to her and find out why she’s so easily intimidated. 
In short, please stop complaining about our fight song and worry about something that actually does harm women. It’s not that hard to find. 
Theresa Arico 
senior Howard Hall Sept. 19 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, September 20, 2011 



Wading through the excessive amount of horrible films on Instant Netflix can be daunting for any subscriber. To ease the process, Scene has graciously provided a list of the best Netflix has to offer. 
1. “Brick” 

This 2005 thriller from Rian Johnson is a modern mysteryabout a high school girl’s unknown involvement in a drugring and her former boyfriend’s efforts to save her. Thetwist? It’s written as an old film noir, circa 1940. ImagineHumphrey Bogart’s quick wit coming from the mouth ofa high school student. Oh, and that high school student is Joseph Gordon-Levitt, so it’s got that going for it, too. 
2. “Dazed and Confused” 
Taking its name not only from a Led Zeppelin song, butalso from a way of life, this cult comedy classic is one ofthe great teen movies that is essential viewing for NetflixInstant. The film takes place over the course of one day,à la “American Graffiti,” in a small Texas town as schoolgets out for summer in 1976. The entering freshmen haveto avoid hazing from the exiting seniors, and everyone is looking to party. Starring a who’s who of early 90s indiecomedy including Ben Affleck, the real breakout star was Matthew McConaughey in a role he has yet to top. 
3. “Father of the Bride” 
Steve Martin portrays the most lovable father inthe 1991 remake of a film about a young woman’sengagement and its effects on her dad’s mentalstate. Having never met the lucky man before theannouncement, George Banks (Martin) is understandablyshocked and even horrified. While the wedding planningcontinues to break the bank, Banks gets more distraughtby the day. It all leads to one of the most touching phonecalls that represents the father-daughter relationship in allits complexity and love. 
4. “Monty Python’s Flying Circus”
Most people know the hilarious British sextet for theirclassic comedy, “Monty Python and the Holy Grail.”But before John Cleese, Graham Chapman, MichaelPalin, Terry Jones, Eric Idle and Terry Gilliam went ona hilariously low budget search through silly obstacles,they entertained the English masses on the BBC with theirsketch comedy show, voted consistently in the top 10 onTV Guide’s “Top Cult Shows Ever.” From silly walks to fish-slapping dances, lumberjacks to the Spanish Inquisition,everyone can find a skit that will pick them up after a long day of schoolwork. 
5. “Sports Night” 

Aaron Sorkin’s “Sports Night” was a highlyunderappreciated drama-comedy in the same vein as his later created “West Wing,” one of the most highlyacclaimed shows in the history of television. The showfollows the behind-the-scenes lives of sportscasters andproducers of a “SportsCenter”-like show. “Sports Night”never developed a large audience, and thus only lasted two seasons. However, in Sorkin’s typical style, it is tightlywritten and contains enthralling storylines with the bitingwit that has made Sorkin famous. 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 


Tuesday, September 20, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 




It’s hard to believe that It’s not really even a ques­“The Lion King” is already 17 tion about 3D technology it-years old. And in the 17 years self. Many people are divided since its original release, over the technology’s merits we’ve gotten a sequel, a re-and both sides have valid telling points. When you get right of the Ross Finney down to it, though, it’s about same whether “The Lion King” in story Scene Writer 3D is worth it for fans of the from film. Timon Luckily, early reviewers and Pumbaa’s perspective, a tend to agree that the 3D em-Broadway musical, multiple ployed is not too distracting. home video and DVD releases While there has been some and an IMAX re-release. Now suggestion that 3D affects we get another re-release, the vibrancy of the color, this time in 3D. which for “The Lion King” is 
We all know the story. It’s certainly a loss, most review-a classic that echoes “Ham-ers agree it is not the kind let” and Biblical epics. The of haphazard 3D nightmare impeccable talent of the cast, that makes the film unwatch­including Matthew Broderick, able or leaves the audience James Earl Jones and Nathan with headaches. Lane, still shines, and the hu-That being said, the next mor, surprisingly, still works logical question would be, “Is most of the time. 3D worth the money?” 
The movie has great tunes The cynics know Dis-from Elton John, is superbly ney is just trying to make animated and, almost two some cash off one of their decades later, is as entertain-most valuable commodities. ing as any other Disney mov-They’ve pulled this kind of ie from the period — though stuff for the last 20 years, let’s be honest, Disney could and clearly we keep paying do no wrong in the early ‘90s. for it. Disney might describe the This is where Disney really film as “timeless.” has us. The experience of 
It’s hard to say you can get “The Lion King” on the big too much “Lion King.” You screen is always a treat. For probably can’t. kids seeing it the first time 
But the 3D release does and for parents introducing it raise some important ques-to their children, it is prob­tions. Chief among them is ably well worth the money. the deceptively simple ques-The nostalgia factor for tion, “Why does a 2D animat-kids of our age group is a ed movie need to be in 3D?” different story.  To some 
Making a computer ani-extent, nostalgia is certainly mated movie in 3D is a pretty something on which Disney logical step. It makes instinc-is betting. However, when it tive sense. Making a live ac-comes right down to how to tion movie in 3D is still pretty blow $10, “The Lion King” in logical. Taking 2D animation 3D probably doesn’t top the and turning it into something list. 3D, however, seems like a little much. The views expressed in 
We all know “The Lion this column are those of the King” works as it is. It is author and not necessarily quite visually impressive, those of The Observer. actually, and there seems to be very little reason to mess Contact Ross Finney at with it. tfinney@nd.edu. 



LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u ClaSSiFiEDS Tuesday, September 20, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Surprised? Don’t be 
Really nothing should sur­prise anyone anymore. But ev­ery Sunday (or Monday), my jaw drops at Patriots quarterback Tom Brady’s stat line. 
One week he throws for over 500 yards and four touchdowns at Miami. The next week, he re­turns home against the Chargers to toss 423 yards and three more scores. And, oh yeah, San Diego held the Vikings to 28 passing yards the previous week. 
Brady picks defenses apart like an overzealous, congested 3 year old would his nose. He slices up the opposition with precision and efficiency usually reserved for the Slap Chop. So what if I just called the Golden Boy a snotty toddler with a cooking info-

Meanwhile, Brady has connected with nine differ­ent players on his way to 940 passing yards in the first two games. Surprised? 
You shouldn’t be. 
Brady leads the league in nearly every passing category (Matt Schaub’s 71.7 completion percentage edges out Brady’s 
71.6) and is on pace for 7,520 yards and 56 touchdowns. By comparison, Dan Marino’s long-standing record for pass­ing yards in a season is 5,084 yards. In the Patriots’ 18-1 season, Brady tossed a record 50 touchdown passes. 
So what if his numbers are inflated because of a shoddy Dolphins’ secondary or a small two-game sample size. Those stats are beyond video game level and into Looney Tune Land, where anything is possible. Surprised? 
You shouldn’t be. 
Right now, there are no real threats to Brady’s throne, either. Immediately follow­ing Brady on the yardage list 
is Panthers’ rookie Cam Newton, 

mercial prod-“Those stats are whose own 
uct. Surprised? beyond video game back-to-back You shouldn’t 400-plus yard 
level and into Looney 
be. games have 
Tune Land, where 
New Eng-been over-
anything is possible.” 
land’s impres-shadowed by 


sive 2-0 start has the rest of the NFL quak­ing and bracing for Hurricane Tom to rain on their Super Bowl parade. Forget the fact that the AFC East has two other undefeated squads or that the Patriots still must play Dallas, Pittsburgh and Philadelphia. Brady’s stellar opening has New England looking like Super Bowl favorites ... again. Surprised? 
You shouldn’t be. 
But he has a great offensive line, a legendary — but fash­ionably challenged — head coach and an incred­

“Brady leads the league 
ible receiving the bar room 
in nearly every passing 
corps. Wait, debate over what? You’re category and is on who is bet-saying his pace for 7,520 yards ter, although pass-catchers and 56 touchdowns.” Drew Brees his team’s two 
losses. Bills 
quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick and Lions quarterback Matthew Stafford each have seven touchdown passes also in helping their squads to undefeated starts. But don’t think Newton, Fitz­patrick and Stafford have the three-time Super Bowl winner shaking in his Ugg boots. 
Brady can rest easily know­ing his biggest competition, Peyton Manning, will not be torturing the Patriots any time soon. Manning’s neck injury 
has tempo­
rarily ended 
aren’t the best? You’re right. 
His best receiver is a five-foot­nine gym rat built for the slot position. His next best option is 32-year-old Deion Branch who has yet to surpass 1,000 receiv­ing yards in a season or snag more than five touchdowns in a year. His tight ends appear in­terchangeable and his suddenly non-controversial new wide-out Chad Ochocinco has just three catches. 
and Aaron 
Rodgers may 
inspire a touch of fear. Brady, it ap­pears, will remain the best quarterback in the league. Surprised? 
You shouldn’t be. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
MLB 

Rivera moves to first on all-time list 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Mariano Ri­vera stood by himself, in the center of the diamond at Yan­kee Stadium. 
For once, the great closer wasn’t sure what to do next. 
So he smiled, blew a kiss to the crowd, and then doffed his cap as cheers washed over him following the record 602nd save of his career. 
“Oh, my God, for the first time in my career, I’m on the mound alone,” Rivera said. “It was priceless. I didn’t know it could be like that.” 
Rivera pitched a perfect ninth inning, striking out Chris Parmelee on what ap­peared to be his signature cut fastball to end the New York Yankees’ 6-4 win over the Minnesota Twins on Monday. 
Fans from the smallest crowd in the Stadium’s three-year history stood and shout­ed from Rivera’s first pitch to his last as he retired Trevor Plouffe, Michael Cuddyer and Parmelee in order and broke Trevor Hoffman’s mark. 
They even roared in the bot­tom of the eighth when Nick Swisher grounded into an inning-ending double play — and drew a loud cheer from fans who wanted to see his­tory made at the ballpark for the second time this summer. In July, Derek Jeter got his 3,000th hit at home. 
“These guys are into it,” Ri­vera thought to himself. 
It’s a remarkable achieve­ment, considering the slender right-hander throws mostly one pitch. Opposing hitters have seen it for years, but still haven’t figured it out. 
“It’s amazing,” Cuddyer said. “You’ve got a 99 percent chance of knowing what’s coming, and he still is able to go out there and dominate.” 
So good for so long, Rivera has built a Hall of Fame-cal­iber career and been a pillar of five World Series champion­ship teams. The only person who might not acknowledge Rivera isn’t the best closer of all time is Rivera himself. 
“You know me, I’m not like that,” Rivera said. “I like to be under the radar, do my job.” 
He nearly did it outside the country. The 41-year-old Rive­ra tied Hoffman with save No. 601 on Saturday in Toronto. The AL East leaders lost Sun­day, putting Rivera in line to get the milestone in the Yan­kees’ last homestand of the season. 
Hoffman earned most of his saves with San Diego and re­tired after pitching last year with Milwaukee. 

“I want to congratulate Mariano Rivera on setting the all-time saves record,” Hoff­man said in a statement. “It’s a great accomplishment and he is still going strong! I have tremendous respect for Mari­ano not just for his on-field accomplishments, but also for his service to the community.” 
On Monday, the New York crowd hollered as Rivera came in to his customary of “Enter Sandman.” The fans grew louder with every strike, every out as Rivera closed in. He even broke a bat for good measure — sawing off Par-melee and sending the rookie back to the dugout for another piece of wood. 
Parmelee lasted only one more pitch. Plate umpire John Hirschbeck rung him up, and catcher Russell Martin came out to the mound, gen­tly placed the ball in Rivera’s glove, and then gave the skin­ny Panamanian a big hug. 
Rivera stayed and accepted congratulations — Alex Ro­driguez, Mark Teixeira and finally Jeter came over to him before the bullpen and bench got there while the Twins watched from their dugout. 
“I think it shows what he means to baseball, what he’s done,” Yankees manager Joe Girardi said. “I also think it shows the class of the Minne­sota Twins.” 
Eventually, the Twins went back to their lockers and the Yankees did, too. That meant Rivera was left on the mound. He tried to sneak off the field with them, but longtime team­mate Jorge Posada pushed him, laughing, onto the mound, where fans cheered him once again. 
And who would’ve thought it, at least back in 1995 when Rivera started out. He began his career as a starter, last­ing only 3 1-3 innings and losing 10-0 to the Angels in his debut, before becom­ing a star in the bullpen. He posted his first save in 1996, working usually as a setup man for John Wetteland. 
Rivera’s 602 saves have come in 674 chances. Hoff­man got his 601 in 677 tries. 
Paid attendance was 40,045, less than the capac­ity crowd and attendant hul­labaloo surrounding Jeter’s historic hit. STATS LLC said Monday’s makeup game drew the fewest fans since the new Yankee Stadium opened. 
“Thank God it’s over, too. Because I was getting a lit­tle uncomfortable,” Rivera said. 
New York now has another goal before heading to Tam­pa Bay to close the season: winning the division. The Yankees lead Boston by 5½ games with 10 to play. 
The Twins lost their ninth straight, tying a run in May as their worst of the sea­son. The Yankees have been struggling, too — this was just their fifth win in 12 games. 
Rivera has finished their last three victories, though. He got his 600th save in Se­attle on Sept. 13. 
Now that the milestone is behind him, Rivera can focus on getting ready for his 16th October in 17 sea­sons — that’s when he really made his reputation. Those 602 saves don’t count any of the 42 wins — in 47 chanc­es — he locked down in the playoffs. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
Home For Rent in Historic Wayne St. Area  
3BR,DR,LR w/firepl,1bath,fin 
bsmnt,gar,all appl 
email cmack@stanleyclark.org 

WANTED 
ATTN:ND Groups and Organizations. Fundraising opportunity. Easy money starting now. Email carrier539@gmail.com 
ND/SMC family hoping to adopt again. Love, opportunity, security, devoted dad, at-home mom. 
No pressure or commitment. We work with Adoption professionals who can vouch for home study and FBI clearance checks.  
Contact Atty:Steven Kirsh (800)333-5736, or feel free to e-mail us directly: eneadoptagain@ gmail.com Facebook.com/ adoptionEJEllen 
TEXT or CALL: 317.473.7635 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685.  For more information, visit ND’s website at:  
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

Unfortunately, no one’s gonna pay you to be a husband, unless you marry Oprah. So, I had to 
find a job. Now, I always admired 
dentists. They’re smart, they’re capable, they keep your teeth healthy. So I went out and I became one. Okay, I became a dental assistant. It’s basically the 
same thing. I just make a lot less 
money. 
- Horrible Bosses 
They’re lazy and they’re slow and they make me sad to look at 
We’ve been taking murder advice from some guy, who’s biggest crime is taping an Ethan Hawke movie! 
-Horrible Bosses 

Tuesday, September 20, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
CLUB SPORTS 

Cyclists open season with top-five finish 
Women’s Rugby dominates Illinois in opening game; Men’s Water Polo seizes opening victory over Iowa 
Special to the Observer with a victory, the tournament perience different field posi-ed her kicking ability by suc-Irish on the board. In the sec-
experience was helpful for tions with significant playing cessfully converting three of ond half, the Spartans scored Cycling Notre Dame’s blossoming pro-time. the four tries, bringing the Irish six more points, but Freeman 
The Notre Dame Cycling gram. The Irish maintained an ag-score to a total of 50 points. The was able to stop a 5-meter pen-Club opened the Mountain Bike While the rookies learned gressive attitude on defense Irish were able to hold back UIC alty shot. Geisman scored late season at the Michigan Cross the game, the returning mem-and capitalized off of UIC’s mis-from scoring again, and the in the fourth quarter to bring Country Race this weekend.  In bers became comfortable with takes to gain early possession game ended with a 50-10 Notre the score 15-2 in Michigan Men’s B Division, grad student their new roles both on and off of the ball. Dame win. State’s favor. Douglas Ansel finished 3rd and the field. Senior captains Vicke Junior Ashley Okonta took The team will welcome Notre Dame lost against sophomore Luke Tilmans came Hadlock and Ashely Satter-the ball out wide for the first Grand Valley State University Michigan 7-2. in 5th for the Irish. In the Men’s lee kicked off the season with Irish try. Junior Amelia Vojt and Iowa State University to The Wolverines only scored C Division, junior Carl Joseph-strong leadership and solid kicked for points, successfully Notre Dame for matches on one in the first quarter while son and sophomore Colin Sid-playing. Sophomore Kelsey putting the Irish at a 7-0 lead Sept. 25th. the Irish offense struggled to berry entered their first com-Fink and junior Annie Flood early in the game. Graduate develop. In the second quar­petitive event.  Sidberry had to stepped into the role of han-Student Kayla Bishop brought Men’s Water Polo ter, sophomore Jack Turek and pull out of the race due to a me-dlers. The women will practice the ball in for another try dur-Notre Dame started out their freshman Dolff Hanke both chanical issue, while Josephson throughout the week to prepare ing the first period of the game, season well with a victory over added points for the Irish. Be-finished mid-pack. for their home tournament at and Vojt made the conversion Iowa 7-2 Sept. 10th. Senior fore the end of the quarter, the 
Junior Irish Fields on Oct. 1 again. However, later in the Captain Dan Geisman made the Wolverines countered with 3 Ultimate and 2. third UIC passed the ball out opening goal with a skip shot to goals. Offense struggled to de-
The Notre Dame women’s wide for their first try of the the upper right corner. Junior velop in the second half as the Ultimate Frisbee team trav-Women’s Rugby game. They missed the conver-Chris Jennis followed soon after Wolverines scored three more eled to Ann Arbor, Mich., on The Notre Dame Women’s sion for a 14-5 score at the end with a goal off of an ejection to times before the end of the Sunday to compete in an early Rugby team beat the Univer-of the first third. put the Irish up by two. In the game. season warm-up tournament. sity of Illinois at Chicago 50-10 In the second third, the Irish second quarter sophomore Jack Notre Dame fell to Illinois 7-6 The players split into two even in their opening game Sept. 11. continued to put pressure Turek managed to put a point after a possible comeback al­teams to give everyone optimal Entering their second year as a on the opposing team, which on the board. Sophomore Goal-most tipped the game in their playing time. Each team com-club sport, the Irish have many prompted another try. Vojt con-keeper Geno Freeman main-favor. peted against one team from more seasoned players this fall verted Okonta’s try successful-tained the shutout for the entire The Irish seemed to have a Michigan State and two simi-compared with their first fall ly. After a long standoff at the first half. In the third quarter, clear advantage as Illinois had larly split teams from Michigan. season. Alongside the veterans UIC tryline with the Irish un-Iowa finally managed to get on no substitutes, but the Irish lost 
Both the Wolverines and the on the field were also a few new able to get past UIC’s defense, the board during an ejection a few passes and Illinois went Spartans sported well-condi-recruits who were eager to ex-Vojt made the decision to kick play. Jennis scored two more up by two in the first. Notre tioned rosters over the week-perience playing in a game for off a penalty and won three goals putting the score at five to Dame came out strong in the end. Michigan State brought the first time. more points for the Irish. UIC one. Iowa came out strong dur-second with Hanke scoring off a large number of returning They altered the format of pushed back, bringing the ball ing the last quarter with quick of a 5-meter foul. Jennis scored players to the tournament, and the game to have three 30-min-around a scrum close to the goal off the start. However, a cross-cage skip shot to tie the Michigan was the national run-ute periods instead of the usual Irish tryline and scored again, Geisman scored two goals out game. Illinois responded by ner-up last season. Although 40-minute halves in order to bringing the score at the end of hole set to seal the 7-2 Irish scoring two goals of their own neither Irish team came home give players the chance to ex-of the second 3rd to 24-10 with victory. to maintain a lead. 
the Irish in the lead. Notre Dame missed two fast During the third quarter, 
In the last third of the game break scoring opportunities Geisman scored out of hole set, 
the Irish again seized opportu-early against Michigan State. but Illinois scored yet again. 
nities to get the ball and move The Spartans capitalized on Dan Geisman scored during a 
it forward, for a total of 4 more these mistakes and gained man up in the final quarter. Il­
tries by senior Christina Kon-the lead by three. The second linois scored two and temporar­
key, junior Janet Mostrom, quarter did not fare better for ily widened the gap. After an 
and rookies freshman Natalie the Irish as the Spartans scored Irish timeout, they rallied with 
Branch and senior Carli Fer-six more goals. Jennis did man-Jennis and Hanke scoring back­
nandez. Vojt again demonstrat-age to bar in a shot, putting the to-back. 

Badin 
continued from page 13 
linebacker Meaghan Ayers re­turned a touchdown the first play of the second half. Senior captain cornerback Maggie Fahrenbach sealed the game with a touchdown late in the game for the Chaos. 
“It feels great to start off with a win,” Fahrenbach said. “Now we have a lot of confi­dence going into our game on Tuesday. Our defense was definitely a strength to-the ball, with only junior re­ceiver and running back Ash­ley Okonta able to often break into the Cavanaugh secondary. 

The team hopes to gain ex­perience and build on team chemistry to pull through in its next game. 
“I think we did a lot of things right today,” Okonta said. “I think we need just a bit more chemistry to improve on the season.” 
Cavanaugh faces Pasqueril­la West in a quick turnaround Tuesday, while Badin plans 
to rebound 
next Sunday 
against How­
ard. 
day.” 
“We have a lot of 
The Cha-Pangborn 
athleticism. The score 
os offense 40, Breen­
doesn’t reflect actually 
also contrib-Phillips 0
how good our team is.” 

uted with a Pangborn well-execut-came ready to ed passing Emily Thompson play Sunday game. Senior Breen-Phillips captain evening in a 
quarterback Rebecca Cink con nec ted with senior receivers Brittni Alexander and Megan Robertson for a pair of touch­downs. 
Badin (0-1) started off with a disappointing loss against a powerhouse Cavanaugh team. The Bullfrogs’ debut of their two-quarterback system was halted by the opposing rush. Senior quarterbacks Carli Fernandez and Sylvia Banda had problems distributing 40-0 shutout over Breen-Phillips. Se­nior receiver and captain 

Liz Pawlak shined, with over 60 receiving yards and three touchdowns for the Phoxes (1­0). The offense posted a total of 200 yards. 
“Our offense really worked well together,” Pawlak said. 
Pangborn’s defense also played strongly. The Phoxes had four interceptions, one of which was returned for a touchdown. 
“[The defense] played really well, especially because there are a lot of new girls,” Pawlak said. 
Breen-Phillips (0-1) strug­gled to contain the Phoxes. The Babes were particularly plagued by penalties and in­terceptions. Before the first snap, the Babes already had incurred a five-yard delay of game penalty.  
“Any of our attempts that were not finished off were probably more due to penal­ties,” Breen-Phillips senior captain Emily Thompson said. 
Despite the loss, there were good signs from the Babes on Sunday. Their offense had several promising drives that they hope to continue in fu­ture games. 
Thompson sees potential in the team. 
“We have a lot of athleti­cism,” she said. “The score doesn’t reflect actually how good our team is.” 
Pangborn looks to continue its successful play against Pasquerilla West on Sunday, while Breen-Phillips looks for its first win of the season when it faces Howard on Tues­day. 
Contact John Pratt at jpratt@nd.edu, Ernst Cleofe at ecleofe@nd.edu, Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu, Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu, Meghan Roder at mroder01@saintmarys.edu, Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Tuesday, September 20, 2011 
MEN’S INTERHALL 

Dawgs gain last minute advantage over the Manor 
Junior quarterback Spinelli leads Sorin to victory over Fisher; Dillon breaks apart the Angry Mob 
By ALLY DARRAGH, JAMES sive line blocking for next week.” interception. The Kangaroos his team’s performance, but also ier and gave me enough time to SOUTHARD, PETER STEINER, Next week, Sorin will clash defense, which held Keenan to saw it as a learning opportunity find the open receiver. I can’t say MIKE MONACO, SCOTT with Zahm while Fisher looks to 100 yards, was led by junior line-for the Vermin. enough how big they played,” FRANO, ANDREW CARDOZA bounce back against Carroll. backer Robert Toole. “We got a big win today, and Dillon’s dominance in the game Sports Writers “We came out and we hit hard, we want to build upon that,” was evident on both sides of the 
and our defense played well,” Marrero said. “We don’t want to football. The Big Red defensive Alumni 7, Morrissey 0 Knott 7, Duncan 0 Toole said. “That’s the way it has get lazy. We’re just going to keep line combined for four sacks in 
A 26-yard pass caught deep in It took one big play from junior been for us the past few years. building throughout the season, the game and resisted giving the end zone by junior wide re-quarterback Jake Coleman and Our defense is fine but we need get to the postseason and get to O’Neill senior quarterback Mike ceiver Jeff Kraemer with just 22 sophomore receiver Joe McGil-to get our offense going.” the stadium.” Wilbur time to get settled in the seconds of play on the clock solid-licuddy to help Knott defeat Dun-The Kangaroos’ offense St. Ed’s (0-1) had difficulty get-pocket. ified an Alumni victory in a de-can in the first regular season showed signs of life on its final ting anything going on either side Dillon held O’Neill (0-1) to 24 fensive matchup with Morrissey. game. drive, a five-play, 56-yard run of the ball. Many of the big plays total yards of offense and forced 
“I would have looked dumb if I Coleman connected with Mc-that ended with a touchdown. the Gentlemen made were un-an interception. Coach Guy An­didn’t catch that ball.” Kraemer Gillicuddy on a 20-yard touch-“We need to use that momen-done by costly penalties. drew knows that he has his work said. “It was a great pass, and it down pass in the beginning of tum [from our final drive] to get Senior linebacker and captain cut out for him in O’Neill’s next felt amazing catching it to win the fourth quarter for the game’s us going next game,” Toole said. Jay Mathes expects his team to game but is also confident that the game.” only scoring play. Keough looks to get in the win get better as they have more play-his team will be fired up. 
Alumni senior captain Dan “We had single coverage and column next week against Stan-ers available. “We need to work on pass Dansdill said the team used a thought we would take a shot at ford while Keenan hopes to move “Overall I’m happy with how blocking more than anything new play to guarantee the win. the end zone,” Coleman said. to 2-0 when they face Dillon. everyone played,” Mathes said. else, but we did have a few 
“We analyzed their defense The gamble paid off as the lone “The effort was there. When ev-sparks,” he said.  “Our defense and knew we would need a play score propelled Knott (1-0) to vic-Carroll 24, St. Ed’s 0 eryone comes back and we’re did not play too bad. I know our we hadn’t run before,” Dansdill tory. Sophomore receiver Bobby at full strength, I think we’ll be guys will be ready to come out said. “We were just trying to get The Juggerknott offense fo-Dorman and senior running ready to play with anyone out big for our next game two weeks the ball to our best player.” cused on the running game, back Nick Tammerine led Car-here.” from now because we love play-
Morrissey junior co-captain amassing 119 yards, 60 of which roll to a resounding win over St. St. Ed’s has bye week, while ing football.” Sean Baur said they new exactly were from Coleman. Edward’s on Sunday at Riehle Carroll will look to build off its Dillon junior Terry Howard where the ball was headed, but Meanwhile, Duncan (0-1) Fields. big win in a contest against Fish-had a versatile performance, were unable to stop the touch-struggled to move the ball, gain-Tammerine got going early, er next week. leading the team with 57 receiv­down. ing only two first downs in the breaking off long runs on the ing yards and 72 rushing yards. 
“We were calling it out,” Baur game. Vermin’s first drive. Sophomore Dillon 24, O’Neill 0 He credits the team’s success to said. “It was just a miscommuni-“We just have to keep execut-quarterback Jack Gardner found Dillon sophomore quarterback preparation. cation and something we need to ing our offense,” junior captain Dorman on a 15-yard fade to the Kevin Fink looked unrelenting in “We prepared well and made work on.” Neil Eveld said. “We just made back right corner of the end zone a victory over O’Neill in the Rec no mental mistakes like penal-
Other than Alumni’s success-some mistakes, missed blocks.” for a 7-0 Carroll lead. In the sec-Sports’ Interhall Football Game ties,” Howard said. ful last second play, the game Part of the Highlanders’ dif-ond quarter, Gardner hit sopho-of the Week. Dillon will look to keep its po­was quiet offensively. The de-ficulties was the starting field more receiver Tom Spoonmore in Finks threw for 132 yards with tent offense hot against Keenan fense from both teams dominat-position.  With one exception, the end zone as he rolled to his two passing touchdowns and ran next week while O’Neill will look ed, forcing a total of five intercep-Duncan never started with the right, bringing the score to 14-0. for another 20 yards, leading Dil-to recover as it has a bye. tions, three of which were caught ball past its own 35-yard line. Tammerine ran for a 2-yard lon (1-0) to a shutout. Fink gave by Alumni sophomore Connor The only instance occurred when touchdown in the third quarter credit to the offensive line for his Contact ally Darragh at                  Hanney. the Knott punter took possession for a 21-0 lead. Dorman boomed success through the air. adarra01@saintsmarys.edu, James 
Baur said the Manor (0-1) will of the snap with his knee on the a 46-yard field goal in the fourth “Our offense played really Southard at jsouthar@nd.edu, Peter need to focus on their offensive ground, effectively downing the quarter to finish it off. Carroll well,” Fink said. “They are the Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu, Scott approach before their next op-ball. (1-0) captain Keith Marrero, a ju-unsung heroes of this game in Frano at sfrano@nd.edu, andrew ponent. Starting from the Knott 37-nior linebacker, was happy with my mind. They made my job eas-Cardoza at acardoza@nd.edu 
“What we did today didn’t yard line, Duncan eventually work,” Baur said. “We just need ventured into the red zone and [to] try something new.” scored on a 15-yard touchdown 
Next week, Alumni (1-0) takes pass. The play, however, was on Duncan while Morrissey has a called back on a holding penalty. bye week. Special teams played a large 
role in the game as Duncan’s first Sorin 24, Fisher 8 punt had a net gain of zero yards. 
Sorin’s squad started off its Knott inadvertently downed the repeat campaign with a big win ball on a punt and both teams over Fisher. blocked a field goal. 
The defending champions Knott looks to keep the mo-emerged victorious thanks to a mentum going next week against high-octane offense and a de-Siegfried, while Duncan will try fense that capitalized on Fisher’s for a win against Alumni. (0-1) mistakes. Junior captain Ted Spinelli, threw a 59-yard Keenan 17, Keough 6 touchdown pass and a rushing The Keenan Knights (1-0) touchdown. Junior receiver and utilized their combination of a linebacker Ryan Robinson caught steady offense and a dominating the go-ahead touchdown pass. defense to start the season off 
“Ted looked fantastic throwing with a win over Keough. the ball,” Robinson said. “Last Keenan’s first drive of the year, we started off our season game resulted in a touchdown, with a loss, so it’s good to start as junior quarterback Andrew off on the right foot.” McDonough went to the air for 
Sorin (1-0) also scored a field four completions, including a goal before halftime after Robin-4-yard touchdown pass set up by son’s interception of Fisher soph-a 39-yard completion on fourth­omore quarterback Joe Paggi put and-10. The Knights were pro-the Otters in field-goal range. A pelled by a strong offensive line muffed Fisher punt return late that gave McDonough ample time in the game was recovered by to throw the ball. freshman Andrew Kuhn, who “It all starts up front for our ran it back for a touchdown to ice offense,” McDonough said. “Our the game. offensive line set the tone.” 
The Sorin defense held Fisher’s The opening drive gave the attack to only four first downs. Knights momentum, and Keenan The Green Wave’s lone score relied on a stalwart defense for came in the fourth quarter when the remainder of the game. Keen-junior receiver Justin Barnes an allowed only 126 total yards caught a 30-yard pass from Pag-and forced three turnovers. gi. A draw play gave Fisher the One of those was a fumble two-point conversion. forced by junior linebacker Kevin 
Fisher junior captain Matt Walsh that was recovered in the Hart said Fisher improved [its] end zone by junior linebacker Ty-intensity in the fourth quarter. ler Gregory. 
“We want to make sure we Keough (0-1) struggled to put come out for all four quarters in-together consistent drives. Many stead of just one,” Hart said. “We of their possessions were marred definitely need to focus on sec-by miscues, including five pen­ondary assignments and offen-alties, two lost fumbles and an 

Tuesday, September 20, 2011 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Farley breaks the Duck’s streak behind stout defense 
Lewis struggles against potent Shamrock offense; Chaos take control and shutout Bullfrogs 28-0 
By BRIAN HARTNETT, Howard (0-1) looked poised MEGHAN RODER, NICK to score on the next drive, as BOYLE, BRENDAN BELL, sophomore quarterback Clare ERNST CLEOFE, JOHN Robinson made some strong PRATT runs, but the Ducks’ comeback Sports Writers hopes were crushed when 
Kueny made yet another inter-Farley 6, Howard 0 ception with just two minutes 
Howard’s steady, two-year left in the game. reign of dominance in the With the victory, Farley end-world of interhall football ed Howard’s two-year inter-came to a halt Sunday night, hall football winning streak. as Farley shut out the Ducks in Kueny saw the Finest victory 
a  defensive,  as  a  testa­ 
penalty-rid­ ment  to  the  
den contest.  team’s strong  
Strong  de­ defense.  
fense on both  “Our  de­ 
sides marked the first half as each team was forced into a num­ber of three­ “We have built on the defense of the last two years and continue to have a very strong defense.”  fense made it very dif­ficult for the quarterback to get a good pass, which  
a  n d  -o u t  allowed me to  
series. An in- Clare Robinson  step  in  front  
terception by Farley senior  Howard quarterback  of receivers,” Kueny said.  
safety  Claire  Despite the  
Kueny put the  loss, many on  
Finest  (1-0)  the  Howard  
into favorable  sideline  re- 
field position,  mained confi­ 

but two penalties negated the dent about their team’s ability turnover’s impact. to carry on the winning tradi-
The defensive struggle be-tion of its predecessors. tween both teams continued “We have built on the de­well into the second half, fense of the last two years and as Howard and Farley each continue to have a very strong struggled to gain yardage. defense,” Robinson said. “Our However, Farley utilized their offense is coming along, but option attack and capitalized we need to capitalize on er-on several costly pass inter-rors by the other team.” ference penalties to set up a Both teams will play Breen­strong drive. The Finest final-Phillips next. Howard will ly broke through when junior look to make some quick im­receiver Stacey Collins hauled provements against the Babes in a six-yard touchdown pass. on Tuesday, while Farley will play Breen-Phillips looking to start a winning streak. 

McGlinn 24, Lewis 14 
There was one word on Mc­Glinn’s mind while playing Lewis ¾ dominate. 
With senior receiver Kate Tucker leading the way with three touchdowns from se­nior captain and quarterback Lauren Miller, the Shamrocks were nearly unstoppable in their win. 
“We have done a lot on perfecting our plays,” senior captain Ayla Bicoy said. “Our strongest aspect was our cohe­sion on offense and speed de­velopment. It showed with our amount of successful runs.” 
Out of the gates, McGlinn (1-0) was ready to go. On the first down of the game, fresh­man running back Emma Col­lis had a 15-yard run, which was only a preview of how the rest of the game was going to be played. It was a struggle for the Chicks (0-1) to get past strong forces such as Tucker and Collis. 
Despite the opposing factors and the rain, Lewis did not go down without a fight. 
“We had a really great start to the year,” senior receiver Christine Hamma said. 
Referring to the second half of the game, Hamma noted that the defense stepped it up and the offense pulled itself together. The Chicks struggled defensively, but fought hard on offense thanks to junior quar­terback Connaught Blood. 
“Blood really holds the team together,” Hamma said. 

Despite the outcome of the game.” game, the Chicks consider The Pyros will look to themselves a threat for the bounce back as they take on rest of the season. Walsh next Sunday, while 
“As the year goes on, every-Welsh Family hopes to main-thing will click a little more tain its momentum when it and people will get used to takes on McGlinn on Monday. each other,” Hamma said. “I think we’re really going to im-Ryan 34, Lyons 8 press some people.” Ryan senior running back 
McGlinn will face Lyons on Brianna Curtis dominated in Sunday, while Lewis plays Sunday’s win over Lyons. Cur-Welsh Family on Sunday. tis rushed for 105 yards and 
two rushing touchdowns on Welsh Family 13, Pasquerilla the day. East 0 “We just ran our plays like 
Welsh Family junior quar-we were practicing and had a terback Vicky Moreno was good week of practice,” Curtis dominant as she led her team said. to a shutout win Sunday over The Wildcats (1-0) drove Pasquerilla down the field East. on their first 
M o r eno possession, racked up 179 as senior passing yards quarterback while throw-Maya Pillai ing touch-“As the year goes on, threw one down passes everything will click a of her three to senior re-touchdown 
little more and people will 
ceivers Nata-passes over 
get used to each other.” 
lie Baldasare the middle of and Charlotte the field. 
Christine Hamma 
Seasly as the Lyons (0­Whirlwind Lewis receiver 1) respond­(1-0) were ed quickly able to edge though, as out a win. senior quar­
“The key to terback Kat today’s game Rod rig uez was making and the of-adjustments,” Moreno said. fense thrived early in the “We saw that [Pasquerilla game by alternating between East] was bringing blitzes the option and bootleg to keep pretty hard and our offense Ryan’s defense off guard. was fantastic in adjusting to After a touchdown and two-that.  My receivers made my point conversion, Lyons took job very easy; all I needed to the lead, but Ryan soon re­do was put it in their vicinity sponded. The Wildcats’ de­and they caught it.” fense played extremely well, 
Welsh Family came out fir-as they made big stops and ing from the start, with More-started to force turnovers. no completing passes all over With this momentum, Cur-the field. The Whirlwind were tis and the rest of the offense able to sustain a pair of long took the lead and never looked drives in the early first half, back.  but were twice stopped in the Despite the loss, Rodriguez red zone by a stiff Pasquerilla took a lot of positive signs East (0-1) defense. come from the game. 
With the first half in danger “We have a young team this of ending scoreless, the Welsh year,” Rodriguez said. “We Family offense found itself at haven’t had as many practices midfield with as we would only 1:10 to have liked play in the leading into half.  Moreno the game, quickly com-and so we pleted con-didn’t have secutive 17-“Obviously it was a the chem-yard passes tough loss, but there are istry that to Seasly and a lot of positives we can we would’ve 
Baldasare. take from this game.” hoped for. Shortly after, We have a lot Moreno found of promise, 
Kristen Mannion 
Baldasare in though, and the back of Pasquerilla East captain I can see us the endzone being a great with only team.” three seconds Lyons will left on the face McGlinn clock.  next Sunday 
The Whirl-as it looks wind scored early in the sec-to improve on its chemistry, ond half when Moreno’s found while Ryan hopes to contin­a diving Seasly from the ue its success as it takes on 8-yard line. Walsh. 
Pasquerilla East looked to rally late in the game when Cavanaugh 28, Badin 0 quarterback Macy Mulhall Cavanaugh’s defense dis-threw back-to-back passes of mantled Badin’s offensive 26 and 17 yards, but the Welsh game plan and led the team to Family defense held strong a season opening victory. as time ran out on the Pyros’ Cavanaugh (1-0) pres-rally. sured the Badin quarter­
“Obviously it was a tough backs throughout the game loss, but there are a lot of pos-and forced two interceptions itives we can take from this that were returned for touch-game,” Pasquerilla East se-downs. Sophomore middle nior captain Kristin Mannion said. “Our offense really was able to pick it up late in the see BADIN/page 11 
page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Tuesday, September 20, 2011 
sons. She was also named a an amazing experience.” bles game, which is a great po-have a few weeks before they 
Doubles 

2011 ITA Singles All-Ameri-In practice, Frilling said sition to be in this early in the will test their doubles play. 
continued from page 16 
beneficial to her game.
 “It’s been really helpful,” Frilling said. “Starting off last year was rough because we hadn’t played with each other before. It took a while to get used to.” 
Mathews and Frilling have found success throughout their careers in both doubles and singles. Frilling was named the Big East Player of the Year for two straight sea-
Focus 
continued from page 16 
“If we want to win the game, we’re going to have to shut her down.” 
While the Belles have made vast improvements in their game, Kuschel said there are still a few areas they need to focus on to beat Trine. 
“I’m looking for our front row to really block well,” Kuschel said. “We have to be more consistent. We have to come up with big plays and that’s going to take a lot of mental toughness.” 
Kuschel said her team has worked hard at every practice. 
“I’m looking for that to continue,” Kuschel said. “If that stays the same, I think we’re going to be beating these teams the second time around.”
 The team will have to battle if they want to defeat Trine, Kuschel said. 
“Everyone has contributed and put forth great effort in every match,” Kuschel said. “I’m looking for everyone to step up and take it to the next level.” 
The Belles take on the Thun­der today at Trine at 7 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
Dealy 
continued from page 16 
Wisconsin, it was like it didn’t even phase us. That’s credit to those two.” 
Dealy is among the lead­ers in both kills and digs for the Irish again this year, even though she could not pick up a volleyball until the pre­season began in August. Ham­pered by shoulder problems throughout her career, Dealy underwent surgery in Janu­ary and missed practicing the entire spring and summer. 
“It’s quite amazing what she’s been able to do this sea­son coming off of a surgery like that,” Brown said. “She certainly doesn’t have the strength that she used to, so she’s winning points in other ways. She has to be smarter and more efficient with her shots.” 
On an Irish team that has its hopes pinned on a Big East title and hopefully more, Dealy’s smarts and experi­ence are invaluable, whether she’s getting digs, kills or — more likely — a whole lot of both. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
can. Mathews made it to the second round of the NCAA tournament last season in singles, before falling to Washington Huskie Venise Chan. 
Mathews said she felt privi­leged to be Frillings’ partner and teammate. 
“Kristy’s one of the best doubles players in the coun­try,” Mathews said. “She’s proven that in her first three years at Notre Dame. Just to know that she’s an amazing partner and getting to be on the court with her has been she and Mathews are editing the small things about their game that fell short last sea­son. 
“I think we’re going to try to focus on playing our game, reducing errors and being consistent,” Frilling said. “Our main thing is we want to be consistent in our wins and keep it at the highest inten­sity and focus. We hope good things come out of that.” 
Mathews said she sees an advantage in being familiar with her partner’s play. 
“We’re fine-tuning our dou­season,” Mathews said. “We already have an understand­ing so we can work ahead of the game in that sense.” 

Mathews said her and Frill­ing’s experience has a defi­nite impact on their leader­ship for the team. 
“At this point we’ve prob­ably been through it all in our careers at Notre Dame,” Mathews said. “Coming in, being a senior with Kristy, and finishing our career as co-captains is going to be a lot of fun.” 
Frilling and Mathews still 
birdie holes today, most of them were pretty short and playing downwind,” Holt said. “I thought we played the par 3s very well to­day, though. Our assistant coach­es and I worked hard on clubbing our players for those holes, and I definitely think we had the right clubs in our hands today.” 
The Irish stayed well within striking distance and now sit eight strokes back with 36 holes to play. With the shifting condi­tions possibly striking at any 
While the team will be in Bloomington this weekend for the Indiana Invitational, Frilling and Mathews will not see competitive action until the All-American Pre Quali­fier on Oct. 1.  Though she won’t play in the Indiana In­vitational, Mathews has high hopes for her team. 
“I’m looking for great re­sults from them,” Mathews said. “It should be a really good experience for the girls.” 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
Seniors 
continued from page 16 
tively. 
Holt said that her senior lead­ers had a few missed opportuni­ties. 
“We have 27 more rounds to play this year, and this is just the first one, but they definitely have some room for improvement.” 
time, a lead can vanish in the matter of a few holes, which puts Notre Dame in solid position to gather its first win of the year this weekend. 
“I think we’re still in it, for sure,” Holt said. “We know we left some shots out there today, but we just need to keep chipping way. We know what we need to do.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
Holt said. “[Huffer] in particular is a much better player than that. She had four three-putts today, and she left herself in some tough positions on these greens.” 
Even with their difficulties on the putting surface, the Irish were able to keep themselves near the top of the leaderboard by taking advantage of the par 5s and the par 3s. The team collec­tively shot -1 on the par 3s and -2 on the par 5s. 
“The par 5s were definitely 


Tuesday, September 20, 2011 The Observer u toDay ndsmcobserver.com | page15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


EXPND JON REPINE JUMBLE HENRy ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 



Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 


Tuesday, September 20, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Dealy digs her way into the  record books 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
1,000 kills and 1,000 digs later, senior outside hitter Kristen Dealy leads her team­mates as one of the most ac­complished players in Notre Dame history. Dealy is just the eighth player  to eclipse the 1,000 mark in both cat­egories for the Irish. 
“My role on the team is to lead my teammates and put them each in the best posi­tion to succeed,” Dealy said. “I am lucky to have team­mates who have done the same for me. I am happy and honored to have achieved this accomplishment, for it could not have happened without them. . 
Dealy broke the record dur­ing Notre Dame’s second set against Western Michigan at the InnTowner Invitational in Madison, Wis. 
Dealy’s fifth kill of the day hit the 1,000 mark. She did not stop there, though. Dealy added eight more for good measure. 
Her 21 digs added to her total of 1,042. After breaking the record, Dealy was named MVP of the tournament. 
The upper echelon of Notre Dame volleyball players is exactly where Dealy belongs, Irish coach Debbie Brown said. 
“It’s hard to put into words how valuable she’s been to 

Leading the pack 

kills in 2009, third in 2010 
and was second in digs both 
years. 
Senior libero Frenchy Sil­
va placed first in digs in the 
2009 and 2010 seasons. 
“Silva and Dealy are in­
credibly important to us from 
a leadership perspective,” 
Brown said. “There’s no du­
plicating experience. This 
weekend, playing in front of 
almost 3,500 people against 
see DEALY/page 14 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles look for second MIAA win 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
The Belles will travel to Trine University in Angola, Ind., today to compete for 
their  second  conference  win  
this season.  
Saint  Mary’s  (2-6,  3-1)  

opened MIAA conference play with losses against Calvin, Kalamazoo and most recently Alma.  A 3-0 win over Olivet gave them a conference win and experience for the Trine match. 
“We’re a very young team,” Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. “We’ve had a lot of great confidence builders even though those games didn’t turn out as we’d hoped.” 
Kuschel said the Belles take every loss and use it as a learning experience to find the good in the game, no mat­ter the result. 
“We’ve had some amaz­ing matchups,” Kuschel said. “Last week  [against Alma], our team had 82 digs. We did awesome defensively, and it was just a really great step­ping stone.” 
Trine (7-6, 2-1) is strong of­fensively, Kuschel said, and promises a tough match for the Belles. 
“Trine has a phenomenal middle hitter,” Kuschel said. 
see FOCUS/page 14 
this program over her four years here,” Brown said. “She’s been a starter, a six-rotation player, from the day she stepped on campus.” 
As a freshman, the Santa Barbara, Calif., native showed she had the talent and drive to lead the Irish both offen­sively and defensively. Dealy recorded 324 kills her first year playing for the Irish, the second highest on the team. She also led the team defen­sively with 325 digs. 
“Dealy is a great all-around player,” Brown said. “I don’t know if she’s better offen­sively or defensively. She’s just so good on both sides of the ball. They don’t keep stats for serves received, but that’s another area in which she would be up there. She’s as good as they come in that department.” 
Over the next two years, Dealy continued to lead the Irish statistically. She fin­ished second on the team in 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Senior captains rely on experience 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Senior co-captains Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews are no strangers to change. Both have started three consecutive seasons with a new doubles partner. However, for the first time in their collegiate careers, Frill­ing and Mathews will return for their second season as doubles partners with the ex­pectation of being better than before. 
Frilling and Mathews, whose 2011 season ended with a loss against USC dur­ing the Round of 16 at the NCAA tournament, are eager to see the advantages playing with a familiar partner will give them this year. 
“Kristy and I have been teammates our entire career at Notre Dame,” Mathews said. “We understand each others’ game really well.” 
Frilling, who has been a leading player for the Irish since her freshman year, said having a familiar partner is 
see DOUBLES/page 14 


ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
Irish fall behind eight strokes after first round 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 

The Irish showed no rust in their first round of golf this sea­son despite tough conditions and tougher competition at the Golfweek Conference Challenge at the Red Sky Golf Club in Wol­cott, Colo. 
The team posted a total mark of 14 over par and sits just eight strokes back of the leader, UC Davis. 
Wednesday’s 18 holes marked the first time Notre Dame par­ticipated in the Conference Challenge, which takes the best teams from each conference and brings them together for a 54-hole tournament at the club’s Tom Fazio Course. 
According to Irish coach Su­san Holt, the course was set up to be a true test for the nation’s best. 
“We’re glad to have the first round out of the way,” she said. “The greens are big. They’re huge. And they’re rolling at tour speed out there, so we’ve re­ally got to put ourselves in the right place on the greens. Also, we were the last tee time today, and it got pretty windy later on. We’re first off the tee tomorrow, so hopefully we aren’t out there for the worst part of the day again.” 
Despite the difficulty of the course, several Notre Dame golf­ers were able to turn in great scores. Notable in the group was freshman Ashley Armstrong. Playing her first ever collegiate round, Armstrong played bogey-free golf on the front nine, and finished the day at two over par, placing her among the top ten individual scorers. 
“Ashley’s a really good player,” Holt said. “We weren’t surprised at all that she played so well to­day. It was definitely nice to see that out of her though.” 
The highest of Notre Dame’s scoring rounds came from se­niors Katie Allare and captain Becca Huffer, who shot rounds of five-over and six-over, respec­
see SENIORS/page 14 




