
Initiatives rearrange student government 
Creation of Constituent Services, merger between COR and Senate set tone for change 



By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
The outside of the student government office on the sec­ond floor of the LaFortune Stu­dent Center looks the same as always. 
But adjustments inside that office have changed student government’s appearance from the inside in dramatic ways this semester. 
Student body president Pat McCormick has led several projects throughout his admin­istration so far that changed the structure of student gov­ernment. The changes were McCormick’s attempt to better address the problems that mat­ter both day-to-day and on a larger scale. 
“I’m very proud of the record that our team had put togeth­er, and it has been the team, around trying to advance these issues simultaneously, both is­sues of convenience and issues of consequence,” McCormick said. 
‘Issues of convenience’ 
McCormick attempted to con­nect to the day-to-day lives of students specifically through the creation of the Department of Constituent Services in April. 
“What we wanted to try and do was to create a committee whose sole job it was going to be driven by the voices of stu­dents whenever they spoke,” McCormick said. “I think ar­chitecturally that was a critical move.” 
Director Heather Eaton said the new department serves pri­marily as a gathering place for student opinions. 
“Constituent services is re­ally meant to make sure that what we’re doing are the things students want, and we want to make sure students know that they can always talk to us and voice their concerns or what they would like brought up,” she said. 
Eaton stepped into her role as the department’s chair with some uncertainty. 
“Because it was a new role … at first, I’m not sure everyone had a clear idea of exactly the purpose I was going to serve,” Eaton said. “That was probably what took the longest time, fig­uring out how I fit in and what I was exactly responsible for, but now that I’ve gotten there, the Constituent Services commit­tee has been a great help to all the other committees in helping them plan for their year.” 
Eaton said students can sub­mit their complaints about day­to-day life at Notre Dame to her group. 
“I know I have a lot of com­plaints, and I go through the list, and I’m like, ‘Amen! That bothers me too,’” Eaton said. “You kind of think about it, but when the moment that’s incon­venient passes, you forget about it.” 
Constituent Services collect­ed over 900 responses to a De­cember survey. Eaton said this feedback allows the group to act on the student body’s ideas. 
“We asked what people want­ed to see sold at the Huddle, and our department actually started working on that,” Eaton said. 
The survey resulted in dis­cussions with the Huddle staff, Eaton said, and students will soon see 24-packs of water bot­tles and more visible price tags on the shelves. 
Eaton also organized Hall Council visits from the student body president, vice president and chief-of-staff. 
“It was just an opportunity for them to meet students and become more of a familiar face so people feel comfortable get­ting in contact with them,” she said. 
While the department has been successful collecting stu­dent feedback and address­ing small concerns, Eaton said cutting through red tape in the administration could still be a problem. 
“I’m not sure necessarily that we have had a big impact on administration and making changes that allowed for us to do differently that other stu­dent government administra­tions,” she said. 
‘Issues of consequence’ 
The most dramatic change for student government organi­zation this semester occurred in the semester’s 11th hour. Student Senate passed a 13­page resolution during its last meeting of the semester that resulted in a merger between the Council of Representatives (COR) and Senate. 
The Department of Internal Affairs led the fusion between the groups and wrote the con­stitutional reforms that made their fusion official. Depart­ment members Ben Noe and Paige Becker pushed the chang­es forward through the process. 
“We realized more and more, perhaps the role of the Council of Representatives was created to fill was not being fulfilled, possibly even couldn’t be ful­filled the way it was currently set up,” Becker said. 


Becker said some people struggled to admit COR could be obsolete or inefficient. 
“There were occasionally places where we would run into the perspective that this is the way it’s always been,” she said. 
With the new resolution, Sen­ate morphed into a new body that McCormick said better represents the student body. However, the new Senate is currently untested and next se­mester will reveal how effective the change is for the group. 
As the office plans more or­ganizations, Noe said he hopes everyone will continue to coop­erate. 
“I think the majority in gen­eral is in favor of change, but I think there is also going to be going a small but vocal minor­ity opposing some changes, just in general,” Noe said. “I know there are some people that are not entirely satisfied with the changes made here, and I would hope that those people don’t use that bitterness or that irritation with this change to hurt future changes that could help student government.” 

contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 






Administration works to fulfill campaign goals 
McCormick, Rocheleau strive to achieve lofty ambitions, balance day-to-day concerns with larger projects 



By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
Thirty-two pages. 
That was the length of the campaign platform that Pat McCormick and Brett Roche­leau outlined during the spring student body elections. 
The document, titled “Hope in Action,” detailed major promises for the team to fulfill when they stepped into their positions in April, but they in­sisted their platform was fea­sible. 
Since April, McCormick and Rocheleau have accomplished only some of their goals, while others remain abstract. 
Playing 4 Peace 
The first and most ambitious goal in the duo’s platform was to “make Notre Dame the pre­mier forum for nationally-rec­ognized events uniting athletes, entertainers and policy-makers of behalf of social justice.” 
This semester, McCormick’s administration has continued and developed its Playing 4 Peace movement that combines Notre Dame athletics with peace efforts in Sudan. 
“The athletics department as a result of Playing 4 Peace has also invested … professional staff support into Playing 4 Peace, which was originally just a project between two athletic teams, student gov­ernment and social concerns through [the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies],” McCormick said. 
The fledgling project now hosts regular events, like a soccer tournament earlier this fall, that are well attended by both students and local com­munity members. 
However, McCormick’s cam­paign touted his plans for a large charity concert in Notre Dame Stadium, which has been relatively unspoken of this se­mester. McCormick still prom­ised the concert is in the works in student government. 
“While there is still work to be done, I am very excited about what is going to happen mick said his administration contributed to city taxi reforms that will protect students in the future. 
“These were cases where sometimes student safety was being jeopardized, cases where students were being gauged in terms of their prices,” McCor­mick said. “What we ended up being able to come up with is something that ultimately em­phasizes now a predictable cost structure and accountability on the part of the taxi compa­nies that students know their rights.” 
However, the city of South Bend compiled these reforms long before McCormick’s ad­ministration began and Mc­Cormick’s role was primarily to support the project. 
Additionally, students have little input in the reforms themselves. 
Unaddressed issues 
Highlighted in the 32-page platform is also the promise to “enable students to customize our curriculum.” The Universi­ty’s curriculum has been a non-issue in the administration’s major projects thus far, and it lies dormant with several other details in the “Hope in Action” blueprint. 
The administration’s final promise in its campaign was its most vague — to “amplify stu­dent voices in charting a course for the Notre Dame project.” 
The promise to “amplify stu­dent voices” has seen some con­crete results as the administra­tion tries to include the student body in larger conversations. 
McCormick and many sus­tainability clubs on campus participated in conversations surrounding the University’s recent comprehensive sustain­ability strategy. 
However, these conversations began in the Office of Sustain­ability in 2008, and McCor­mick’s involvement only began this summer when the plan was in its final stages. 
Overall, it is commendable that McCormick and Rocheleau set a high bar for their admin­istration and have made strides toward achieving even the most ambitious goals. However, the student body has yet to see the monumental vision that the duo campaigned on come to frui­tion. Next, the administration should target its energy into a few actionable projects to leave its legacy on the student body. 

contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
in January and February of this year,” McCormick said. 
Fighting for quarter dogs 
Another major item on the McCormick-Rocheleau plat­form was their plan to expand student gov­ernment’s ca­pacity to work with constitu­ent services. 
uent services projects so far. 
Taxi reform 
Student safety both on and off campus was another prior­ity for this administration, and McCormick said he has tried to develop the strong rela­tionships the previous ad­ministration 

“It must also be the case that we not only de­liver on issues of a more rou­tine nature,  “We’ve been trying to update dorm by dorm on the progress we’re trying to make in building a new student government this year.”  built with lo­cal officials and law en­forcement. “The rela­tionship has been contin­ 
but that we do so even more passionately,”  Pat McCormick student body president  ued to be de­veloped and d ee p e n ed ,”  

McCormick said. “I think substantive­ly what that looks like is that on midnight of transition, quarter dogs were restored.” 
McCormick and Rocheleau did this by the newly created Department of Constituent Ser­vices, chaired by sophomore Heather Eaton. 
The new department ex­tended the previous adminis­tration’s tradition of “Whine Week” into “Whine Wednes­days,” and Eaton collected stu­dent opinion via surveys and an online suggestion box. 
McCormick and Rocheleau visit Hall Councils in different dorms each week as well. 
“We’ve been trying to update dorm by dorm on the progress we’re trying to make in build­ing a new student government this year,” McCormick said. 
Rocheleau said he feels these conversations with students and the work in Constituent Services connects to the com­plaints students have each day. 
“It becomes rewarding when I feel like it actually makes a difference, and I enjoy seeing the difference it can make,” Ro­cheleau said. 
Concrete progress — quarter dogs and Puppy Days, for ex­ample — have come out of this administration and its constit-McCormick said. “For the first time, the Safety Sum­mit took place 
right here on campus on Irish Green.” 
The Safety Summit in August was hosted at the Robinson Community Learning Center in South Bend in the past. Student met with local police and lead­ers to talk about how to live safely in South Bend. 
Outside of engaging with lo­cal law enforcement, McCor­





Group debates, approves merger 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Student Senate has focused its term on improving the structure of student government by approving several constitutional amendments to increase clarity and efficiency within the organization. 
Senate passed 14 resolutions throughout a semester that culmi­nated in the merger resolution that combined Senate with the Council of Representatives (COR). 
Student body vice president Brett Rocheleau, who chairs the Student Senate, said the senators engaged in a lively debate prior to the reso­lution being passed. 
“It was a major lift on the consti­tution, and there was a great de­bate about it,” Rocheleau said. “The senators felt free to speak out. It was nice to hear a lot of discussion and not just one side. It was good that everyone was able to hear the different views.” 
The resolution dissolved COR and added six new voting members to Senate. Rocheleau said it was the result of months of effort by Direc­tor of Internal Affairs Ben Noe, his committee and the subcommittee on constitutional reform. 
“I was glad it ended up passing,” Rocheleau said. “I think it will re­ally help future Senate meetings with more discussion based topics. I hope next semester will be more fruitful and effective because stu­dent government is more stream­lined.” 
The senators cooperated well throughout debate about the reso­lution and the changes to student government. 
“We had an initial document and it changed several times from senators and people on commit­tees talking it out and giving their insight,” he said. 
With the merger approved, Ro­cheleau and McCormick hold high hopes for next semester. 
“Senate will be more discussion based, without the department di­rectors giving reports,” Rocheleau said. “I hope this will make sena­tors feel more involved and take on more of the projects we’re working on.” 
This resolution was just one of several focused on constitutional amendments for greater clarity between what the constitution says and how student government actu­ally operates, Rocheleau said. 
In one resolution, Noe and the Department of Internal Affairs planned several reforms to the election process. The department drafted the resolution after Mike Thomas, former vice president for elections, suggested changes to the process. 
“That resolution was meant to ease the process of elections after we ran into some problems dur­ing last year’s election,” Rocheleau said. 
Student Senate also passed a major resolution on the Univer­sity’s comprehensive sustainability agreement. 
“The agreement is part of a ma­jor initiative we’ve been working on over the past decade,” Rocheleau said. “Now we have a firm carbon commitment and a plan of action. Having students involved in that was great.” 
In addition, Senate approved resolutions for tangible changes to Notre Dame, such as a safety reso­lution to add a Blue Light Phone at the intersection of Twyckenham Drive and Courtney Lane, and a resolution for the improvement of Riehle and McGlinn Fields. 
The resolution for the improve­ment of Riehle and McGlinn Fields proposed adding field lights and in­stalling turf in some places, Roche­leau said. Senate passed a similar resolution a few years ago, he said, but the University has not taken ac­tion on the matter yet. 
“It was passed two or three years ago and has just been sitting on a desk since,” Rocheleau said. “Hope­fully now there will be actions to improve the fields with more light­ing and better grass.” 
For many senators, participat­ing in the group is a first taste of student government. While these younger students lack experience, Rocheleau said their eagerness to participate is why the group is able to be so effective. 
“Because most of them are young, you’re afraid they won’t speak up or add to the discussion,” he said. “But no one is shy to give their opinion which is necessary in student government.” 
The senators assist Rocheleau and student body president Pat Mc­Cormick by providing feedback on the pair’s goals for their term. 
“They’ve done an amazing job of giving us a soundboard, a place to bounce our ideas off of and improve our ideas,” he said. “[Pat and I] are just two people who have a vision but we need other people to help us in our vision.” 
Next semester, Rocheleau said the group will have one major dis­cussion topic each meeting that will hopefully lead to a resolution that can be voted on at the beginning of the next meeting. 
One topic on Senate’s agenda for next semester is the possibility of students using Domer Dollars at off-campus locations. 
“I know previous administra­tions have tried but now we’re tak­ing a slightly different angle and hoping it works out,” Rocheleau said. “We don’t know if it’s feasible but we’re optimistic about it.” 
Rocheleau said he also hopes to discuss other constituent matters such as Food Services and more lighting around campus. 
“[Next semester] we’ll be able to hear better advice and ideas,” he said. “That’s what I’m really hop­ing for, better discussion to make resolutions and hopefully be more effective than we were this semes­ter.” 
contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 



STUDENT UNION BOARD 



Members lead focus groups to gather student feedback 
a big hit,” Caparros said. “Other “Sometimes our director of semester, Caparros said SUB ad-By MARISA IATI big events were [the] Mackl-publicity would go to [certain justed well to its new staff advi-News Writer emore [concert at Legends in residence halls] and there would sor, program coordinator Joshua 
November], which reached over be no one there [for previously Wilson. 
The Student Union Board 700 people coming in and out. scheduled focus groups], and “I think we did well, and I (SUB) aimed to improve its out-Best of Acousticafe in the LaFor-that was kind of disheartening, think we can even improve more reach, engagement and involve-tune Ballroom [in October] was but I feel like the few that we got on those relationships [with SAO] ment initiatives this semester, really great.” were really constructive,” Cap-in the future,” he said. SUB board manager Joe Capar-SUB tried to respond better to arros said. SUB intends to host more ros said. student feedback and improve its Caparros said SUB used the fo-events in the spring, Caparros 
“[SUB has] been doing a lot advertising, Caparros said. cus groups to ask students what said. of outreach this year,” Caparros “We have a website where we musical genres they prefer for “We had 39 events this year said. “That’s probably been our can really listen to people,” Ca-SUB’s spring concert and seek [so far], and with more week-biggest program, reaching out parros said. “It’s all linked to feedback about its movie screen-ends available because it’s not to other organizations. These Facebook and Twitter. We’ve ings. football season, we’re going to other organizations are passion-heard that people have wanted “People were asking about produce more events and im­ate about [their programs], and bigger advertising. With the having a matinee time, and I prove the quality,” he said. “The when you team up with SUB, it Michigan State [football ticket] love that idea, and I love that we two big ones to look out for are just produces great events.” lottery, we had trouble making were able to get that from focus the concerts and AnTostal.” 
For the first time, SUB collabo-sure that every student was ad-groups, so we’re actually having Caparros said he also hopes to rated with the Student Activities vertised to, and that’s definitely earlier times in the spring to fa-produce more alternative forms Office (SAO) to produce Comedy something we’ll improve on in cilitate that,” Caparros said. of marketing. on the Quad in September, Cap-the future.” SUB representatives in resi-“I’m really pushing the involve­arros said. In order to gather student dence halls also asked weekly ment initiative, really pushing 
The comedy show was one of feedback, Caparros said SUB questions to collect students’ the dorm reps,” he said. “They’re SUB’s most successful events this implemented focus groups in 21 opinions, Caparros said, but this really excited, and I’m trying to semester. out of 29 total residence halls. initiative was only partly suc-facilitate that even more.” 
“That had numbers that The initiative began last spring, cessful due to lack of participa­matched with regular concert he said, and SUB will continue it tion. contact Marisa Iati at numbers, so Gabriel Iglesias was next semester. When SAO restructured this miati@nd.edu 



COR dissolves, transfers some members to Senate 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR), a diverse advisory group to student body president Pat McCor­mick, focused its discussions this semester on three primary goals outlined by McCormick in his “State of the Student Union” address. 
“The first pillar is uniting the Student Union to make it a more ef­fective advocate, the second, deliv­ering on constituent services and ... [third,] dramatically extending stu­dent government’s ability to work on issues of consequence,” McCor­mick said. 
This semester was the group’s last as the COR’s last and most sig­nificant topic of debate resulted in its consolidation with the Student Senate. 
“There was something of a con­tradiction in COR,” McCormick said. “There was the sense that these members of the Student Union should advise the president on stu­dent policy and programming. But while we allow them to advise on policy, there was no architecture within student government to let them engage in policy terms.” 
McCormick said the group’s de­bates focused on how to expand representativeness in student gov­ernment. 
“We tried to think through whether there might be a way to accomplish two objectives,” he said. “First, to cut through the red tape in student government that had in­creasingly come to be extraneous to the work of the Student Union itself, and secondly, to see whether there might be a way in doing so to unite the Student Union once and for all.” 
Following several months of revi­sions to the constitution led by COR member and Internal Affairs chair Ben Noe, the Council debated the merger for two weeks before hold­ing a trial meeting with Senate. The senators approved the reform at that meeting last week. 
Before the merger, the Council did also address the second pillar, which McCormick refers to as “is­sues of convenience.” 
Council debate resulted in clari­fying policies regarding student use of local taxi services, McCormick said. 
“We were excited to have the opportunity to discuss taxi reform and to get people’s feedback on transportation in general,” he said. “Providing more effective transpor­tation to and from campus is rou­tine, but important.” 
McCormick said the group’s conversations often centered on enhancing school spirit, and Notre Dame leprechaun Mike George even attended one meeting. 
“I extended that invitation [to George] in order to bring stakehold­ers together to talk about focusing on both student safety and school spirit,” he said. “We used COR to talk about stadium modernization and things like canned music.” 
McCormick said the group was helpful in his efforts to gauge stu­dent sentiment on the controversial game day updates. 
“COR serves as a sounding board to get a feel about where students stand,” he said. 
The Council’s final area of focus this semester, McCormick said, were “issues of consequence” relat­ing to both University and external policy matters. 
“We talked about the education Forum, to discuss what worked in past years and how the Forum can be improved,” he said. “We talked about immigration reform in COR before Cardinal Mahoney came to speak at Senate, where we had the opportunity to bring in ideas from COR.” 
One of the most tangible results of dialogue in COR, McCormick said, was the passage of a compre­hensive sustainability strategy by the University. 
“We had the chance to talk about sustainability, which contributed to my own approach toward working for a sustainability strategy at Sen­ate, which resulted in our fourth resolution,” he said. “That was fol­lowed up with a report to the Board of Trustees, and now we have, for the first time in Notre Dame his­tory, a public commitment to sus­tainability.” 
McCormick said the group’s greatest purpose this semester was to advance students’ role in policy change. 
“[The representatives] embody why the argument is so important, that students can be part of the project of building a Notre Dame consistent with the size of our hopes for the University,” he said. 

contact John cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 





FACULTY SENATE 

Professors debate classroom policies, disability services 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER or of Rigby. Generally the Faculty ily mean it’s widespread.” updating disability services. this one.” News Writer Senate meets once every month. Rocheleau said he hoped to work Disability services have been In addition to these issues, the 
Within the Senate are four com-with the committee to solve any is-a large topic of discussion in the Faculty Senate also planned to re-
Student behavior during class, mittees — Academic Affairs, Ad-sues professors had with students’ group this semester, Rocheleau assess faculty benefits, Eskildsen disability services and a new mas-ministrative Affairs, Benefits and behavior in class. said. said. ter’s program sparked debate in Student Affairs. Two students also “Talk about it and tell us,” Ro-Eskildsen said the Faculty Sen-“Hopefully in our [next] meet-Faculty Senate this semester, chair sit on Faculty Senate as non-voting cheleau said. “If a professor puts it ate worried the services did not ing , [director of compensation Morten Eskildsen said. members. Ellen Childs represent-in a syllabus, we know. Some pro-fulfill the needs of those students. and benefits] Denise Murphy will 
Eskildsen said the group acts as ed graduate students, and student fessors agree with some points [on “We have an office that provides brief us on some of the latest de­a voice for faculty interests on cam-body vice president Brett Roche-student behavior] but I don’t see services for anyone with a physical velopments relating to retirement pus. leau spoke for undergraduates. how anything would be achieved or learning disability, but it would savings and those programs,” he 
“We work in two ways — first as The faculty representatives dis-by a study, which some faculty seem it is understaffed,” Eskildsen said. “The Committee on Benefits a reactionary to initiatives, propos-cussed disruptive student behavior want to do.” said. “Some teachers even take it monitors what is going on and ad­als or anything that changes across during its meetings this semes-The student representatives on themselves and go way beyond vocates for the faculty.” campus that would affect faculty ter. Eskildsen said the use of cell made a list of seven initiatives that what preparation for class should No matter the topic of discussion, and secondly as a proactive group phones and laptops during class could possibly improve student-be to help remove obstacles in their Eskildsen said the main goal of the to address issues we feel could be concerns some faculty members. faculty relations, Rocheleau said. way.” group this semester was to resolve improved,” Eskildsen said. Some professors also expressed The seven initiatives included Another item on the Senate’s issues on behalf of the faculty. 
Faculty Senate met only twice frustration with tardiness and stu-developing graduate student com-agenda has been a proposal for “We try not to just point out this semester due to the death of dents who left during class, he said. mittees, improved graduate hous-a master’s degree in Patent Law, problems, though it is necessary,” former chair J. Keith Rigby, Jr., “The first thing is then to do ing, reform in graduate health which would be a part of the Col-he said. “We want to offer con-Eskildsen said. Rigby, an associate some fact finding and find out to care, provision of teaching op-lege of Science. structive solutions as to how things professor of civil engineering and which degree this is a real issue,” portunities to graduate students, “The Faculty Senate is asked could improve.” geological sciences, died Nov. 5. Eskildsen said. “Some people have achieving balance in faculty’s aca-for input when new programs are 
Eskildsen said he cancelled the expressed this concern on one demic and home lives, the creation proposed,” he said. “The Academic contact Nicole Toczauer at group’s November meeting in hon-committee, but it doesn’t necessar-of an online syllabus database and Affairs Committee is looking into ntoczaue@nd.edu 



Group works on safety, inclusion 
Delayed start prevents council from concrete accomplishments 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Although the Campus Life Council (CLC) did not begin meeting until October, student body president Pat McCormick said he hopes this year’s group can make meaningful recom­mendations on how to improve the University. 
“CLC is a group that actu­ally meets at the request of the Board of Trustees and in some ways, it is slightly distinct from the work we do as an adminis­tration,” 
McCormick said. “It’s an op­portunity for a forum, where students can come together with rectors and faculty mem­bers to discus ways to tangibly improve campus life.” 
CLC did not begin meet­ing until October because the group did not receive rector recommendations from Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Tom Doyle until that time. 
Once the student and rector representatives were able to convene, McCormick said the group identified three main areas that they would like to work on — student safety, ex­panding inclusion and student activities. 
CLC members have divid­ed into three subcommittees based on these priorities. The subcommittees meet bi-week­ly. 
The subcommittee on stu­dent safety hopes to bring to­gether experts to discuss how to improve campus safety, Mc­Cormick said. 
“The major thing we’re rec­ommending right now is more lighting on campus,” McCor­mick said. “Especially in plac­es like Mod Quad, where there maybe isn’t as much [lighting] as there could be.” 
McCormick said the goal of the subcommittee on expand­ing inclusion is to enable all students “to serve as partners in the project at Notre Dame.” 
“Students have a unique role in charting the course for Notre Dame,” he said. “They are ready and willing to serve as partners, but that requires mutual respect from both staff 
and other students.”  
The  expanding  inclusion  
subcommittee  has  identified  
specific  areas  its  members  

would like to address, McCor­mick said. 
“One area they’re looking at is underrepresented students and their faith traditions,” he said. “Another is lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender (LGBT) students and how we can further include them in the life of the University.” 
McCormick said the student activities subcommittee would make recommendations on both the process and the quali­ty of student activities at Notre Dame, including improvements to SAO online and pep rallies, as well as the modernization of the football stadium. 

McCormick said the hope for the year is to produce a report to the Board of Trust­ees and the vice president for Student Affairs detailing CLC’s recommendations on improv­ing these areas of life at Notre Dame. 
contact Emily schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 




Graduate Student Union focuses on families 


The Graduate Student Union (GSU) has achieved many of its goals for this semester, in­cluding a welcome back social held in Purcell Pavilion, a film screening and a blood drive, president Sam Rund said. 
A major focus for the group this semester was its emphasis on graduate student family life. 
“We donated all proceeds from our football concession stands to the pregnant and par­enting student fund,” Rund said. 
Better health care for gradu­ate student families is a grow­ing need in the community, and Rund said the group would con­tinue to look for solutions next semester. 
“We are working with down­town South Bend to welcome new graduate students to the com­munity,” Rund said. “We want to continue to work with the Uni­versity for better health care for grad student dependents.” 
-Adam Llorens 


Board regulates undergrad student clubs 
The Financial Management Board (FMB) continues to reg­ulate the use of undergradu­ate student group funds and provide oversight for The Shirt project, president Eric Biro said. 
The Board enforces rules out­lined in the Student Union con­stitution about the way clubs can and cannot use their funds. 
“Student business managers come in to present their finan­cials,” Biro said. “We have made everything more efficient and have become more effective in the role we are supposed to be filling.” 
Biro said FMB would continue to regulate student organiza­tions next semester as closely as it has so far this year. 
“We are going to continue our motive of upholding the fis­cal policy of the Student Union,” Biro said. “We are looking to get groups more aware of what we do.” 
-Adam Llorens 

Club Coordination Council allocates funds 
The Club Coordination Coun­cil (CCC) has worked this semes­ter to make the fund allocation process run more smoothly for clubs, president Hannah Burke said. 
“Last year, we developed a new spreadsheet that broke down the funding and helped to make it clear how much the clubs actually needed,” Burke said. “This supports a more precise process where the clubs cover all the bases.” 
The Council has a winter and spring allocation process. The winter allocation gives money to clubs for unexpected costs not included in the previous year’s budget, while during the spring allocation, clubs request funding for the following year’s activities. 
“The plan for spring semester is to see how the changes from the winter allocation can be in­corporated into the spring se­mester’s process,” Burke said. 
-Nicole Michels 


Hall Presidents Council discusses pep rallies 
This semester, Hall Presi­dents Council (HPC) encour­aged student interest in pep rallies and worked to improve collaboration between dorms, co-chair Billy Wardlaw said. 
Wardlaw said HPC tried to make sure all of the pep ral­lies were student-oriented and student-focused. 
“One of our primary focus­es early on was the USC pep rally,” Wardlaw said. “We were happy to collaborate with other clubs, and stu­dent government on campus to work on the pep rallies to make them more effective.” 
The presidents met regu­larly to facilitate dorm events and to encourage collabora­tion between residence halls. 
“These meetings tend to be conducive to a collaborative environment,” Wardlaw said. “Everyone tends to get to know each other a little bet­ter because we try to create a really friendly environment.” 
-Nicole Michels 

SENIOR CLASS COUNCIL 
Senior Class Council (SCC) aimed to bring together different groups of se­niors through its events this semester, senior class president Anne Hunting­ton said. 
“Our goal for this semester was to try to branch out to different parts of the senior class and try to find ways to cater to their needs,” Huntington said. “We had a really good response and we were seeing seniors and meeting seniors that none of us knew before.” 
Huntington said SCC planned for 15 large-scale events this semester, and only two did not work out. Some of these bigger events included a senior class Mass and a “welcome back” bar­beque with the Career Center. 
Next semester, Huntington said the Council will spend most of its time planning Senior Week, but se­niors should look forward to more big events, such as a Valentine’s Day dance and transition seminars that 
will  prepare seniors for  life  after  
graduation.  
-Tori Roeck  


JUNIOR CLASS COUNCIL 
Apparel was the main focus for Junior Class Council (JCC) this semester. 
“We really emphasized apparel this semester, which was a big part of our platform,” junior class president Kevin Doherty said. “We’ve gotten bro tanks, pint glasses and a bunch of new stuff on order that should come in as soon as we get back.” 
The only apparel items for the Class of 2013 the past two years had been two T-shirts and sweatpants, and Doherty said this year’s Council wanted to expand those options. 
In addition to apparel, JCC sponsored Domecoming, a week full of events for the Class of 2013, Doherty said. 
Doherty said the Council’s goal for next semester is to entice more students to at­tend class events. 
“One of the big challenges we had, es­pecially as juniors, is having one-third of our class abroad at every point in the se­mester,” Doherty said. “It kind of makes it difficult to reach out to the students that are here and get a bigger draw.” 
-Tori Roeck 

SOPHOMORE CLASS COUNCIL 
Sophomore class council (SCC) strived to create memorable experiences for stu­dents through programming this semes­ter, president Nicholas Schilling said. 
“Our primary goal was to put on events that when people look back on them next year, they’re going to say, ‘Remember when we went to that dance,’ Schilling said. 
SCC hosted Domerfest 2.0, its largest event of the semester, at the end of Sep­tember. Although Schilling said Domer­fest 2.0 was the best event of the semester in terms of the quality of the music and lighting, student attendance did not meet expectations. 
“Unfortunately we really didn’t get quite the turnout we’d hoped for,” Schil­ling said. “The dichotomy of program­ming is that the class council is able to provide a really good and professional event, but there’s no saying if people will attend it or not.” 
Schilling said the Council will close the semester with a Grotto prayer service and glow-in-the-dark rosaries. 
-Dan Brombach 

FRESHMAN CLASS COUNCIL 
Freshman class council (FCC) unit­ed the Class of 2015 through a series of different activities, president Tim Scanlon said. 
FCC hosted a volleyball tourna­ment, sold class shirts and planned a class Mass for the end of the se­mester. In addition, Scanlon said the Council organized the inaugu­ral Monster Mash Halloween Dance, which he called the semeste r’s most successful event. 
“We had about 600 people show up to the dance, so that was a great way to start out class council,” Scanlan said. 
Next semester, Scanlan said FCC is planning a Valentine’s Day Dance and hopes to pair with the Center for So­cial Concerns for a service opportu­nity. The council also hopes to create a freshmen-generated prayer book. 
“For this book we’re going to ask the freshmen to send in thoughts and prayers that they’ve had over the course of this year,” Scanlan said. 
-Dan Brombach 




SMC leadership builds during ‘transition year’ 
Gans, Zupanic reorganize Student Government Association, work toward new structure next semester 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Learning, leading and listen­ing have been and will continue to be the goals of what Saint Mary’s student body president and vice president have labeled the “transition year.” 
President Nicole Gans and vice president Jacqualyn Zu­pancic began the year tweak­ing the Student Government Association’s (SGA) constitution and bylaws. 
“This year [Nicole and I] felt as though we came into our positions ready to go and fired up,” Zupancic said. “Every­one had all these great things they wanted to do, and then we slowly started to realize that our time was being consumed with financial things, with dif­ferent policies and mending the bylaws.” 
After restructuring the Stu­dent Government Associa­tion (SGA), Gans and Zupan­cic researched how to make the board more effective. Re­cently, the voting members of SGA agreed to transition into a Student Senate structure that will be in full effect next school year. 
“Next semester we will be working in an interim be­tween the two structures, and we’re going to be working very closely with the Office of Stu­dent Involvement and the Mul­ticultural Services (SIMS) to get our policies laid out, so for April first, the new board can start running on that,” Zupan­cic said. 
The new structure will call for student councils rather than student commissioners, thus opening new positions for greater student involvement, Gans said. 
“[Restructuring SGA will] al­low [for] even greater student input and more student repre­sentation,” she said. “That is the greatest change in our plat­form from last year.” 
Zupancic is also happy with the changes, but said the board will have to work hard to keep the process moving. 
“We definitely have our work cut out for us, and we want all of this to be in place as soon as possible,” she said. 
However, Zupancic said the process has also been exciting. 
“Our board is doing a great job of getting the word out there and still staying moti­vated through all these chang­es,” she said. “Everyone is very adaptable, and we’ve had a lot of positive feedback. 
“Everyone is very enthusi­astic about the changes, and they want their opinions to be heard. It’s great. In our meet­ings, no one can stop talking about it.” 
Gans and Zupancic said these “transition projects” have made them realize the many facets of leadership. 
“[This semester], Nicole and I realized how long the path is to becoming leaders,” Zupan­cic said. “We’re still becoming leaders and still honing our leadership skills everyday be­cause problems come up, and we have to exactly be on our ‘A’ game and problem-solve every day.” 
For this reason, Zupancic and president Nicole Gans began a monthly leadership program this semester. 
“We wanted to create some sort of series that [teaches] stu­dents who may not be in leader­ship positions, who are aspir­ing to be in them or who are currently in them ... about the different components of leader­ship and how to motivate and organize different structures and focus on your goals,” Zu­pancic said. 
The program started in No­vember and will run through March. It consists of talks held by current Saint Mary’s profes­sors, coaches, staff and alum­nae. 
“We don’t’ really have lead­ership classes, so we wanted to bring in different alum, or different professors from the school,” she said 
Zupancic said the program has been a success thus far. 
Looking toward next semes­ter, Gans and Zupancic both said a major goal would be bet­ter communication with the student body. 
Gans said she wishes SGA would have administered more student feedback programs to allow students to voice their concerns this semester. How­ever, Zupancic said this process is difficult because not many students find new problems at Saint Mary’s. 
“There aren’t very many is­sues here at Saint Mary’s that we have to deal with. Still, I think we have a long way to go to making Saint Mary’s the best place possible, and the hardest thing to do is to make some­thing good better,” she said. 

“It’s not that we hope students will find something to complain about, but feedback on day-to­day issues if it’s a class, or even if it’s (that) people want to get paid every two weeks instead of monthly, is beneficial.” 
Ultimately, Gans and Zu­pancic said their biggest goal for next semester is to spread awareness that SGA values the needs of the student body, Zu­pancic said. 
“I wish students saw SGA as their ally and us fighting for them,” she said. “But if there aren’t fighting issues, it’s tough to make students aware. We want to change their interests into tangible things that make them grow.” 
contact caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 




STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 


Group creates new leadership development program 
SGA hosts variety of successful events, raises awareness about the resources available at the College 
By MADELINE MILES 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s College Student Government Association (SGA) hosted a variety of successful events this semester, but execu­tive secretary Emma Brink said “Proud Past, Promising Future” was among the best. 
“The goal of this series is to in­spire students to become leaders on campus as well as teach cur­rent and aspiring leaders skills that they can take with them SGA event was the “Love a Belle, Support a Belle” event, during which SGA reached out to fellow Belles who struggle with anxiety and depression. 
“Our main goal was to raise awareness and advocate for the resources available on campus,” Skirtich said. 
SGA is currently working on the Le Mans Tunnel Project to decorate the tunnel connecting Le Mans Hall to the Student Center. Design submissions are now being 
accepted. 
“It really is a 

into the future,”  “A lot of hours and  great  way  for  
Brink, a senior, said. The “Proud Past, Promising Future” leader­ manpwer, research and collaboration will go into the reconstruction of the Association.”  students to leave their mark on Saint Mary’s forever,” Brink said.  
ship development program is split  Emily Skirtich  Next semester, members have  
into five separate  chief of staff  plans to improve  
workshops.  The  the  structure  
first  workshop,  of  SGA  to  help  

“So You Think You Can Lead?” it run more efficiently The Board began the series last month. SGA will work in an interim stage as hosted another workshop called it analyzes the success of future “Motivation” on Wednesday. changes. 
The program will conclude in The current structure does not March. Any students who attends allow for easy communication be-all five events will receive a lead-tween board members, Brink said. ership certificate from SGA. SGA is planning to restructure for 
Senior Emily Skirtich, SGA chief easier, freer communication be-of staff, said another successful tween leaders of the College. 
The Board currently consists of 25 commissioners, but officers said they’d like to see that number increase. 
“We would instead like to see Class Boards, Clubs, Commis­sioners, Big Boards, and Student Academic Council as commit­tees headed by the five executive members of student government,” Brink said. “The information and concerns would then be filtered to a senate of elected students who will vote on the major issues at hand, hopefully eliminating any bias held by current members.” 
Skirtich is hopeful for the recon­struction of SGA. 
“A lot of hours and manpower, research and collaboration will go into the reconstruction of the Association,” Skirtich said. “By the time that classes resume in January, SGA will operate more smoothly and efficiently.” 
With more elected positions on SGA and a larger body, Brink hopes the new structure will allow for increased student participation in the group. 
“Despite working in an interim stage, we still plan to be as com­mitted to student issues and con­cerns as always,” Brink said. 

contact Madeline Miles at mmiles01@saintmarys.edu 





SAB hosts seasonal events, engages community 
Board begins fall on high note, plans ahead for SMC Tostal and spring concert in upcoming semester 
By JILLIAN BARWICK  SAB to help students begin their  
News Writer  year at Saint Mary’s.”  
After this successful start,  
Saint Mary’s Student Activi- SAB drew crowds to its first  
ties Board (SAB) successfully  Fright Fest right before Hal- 
paired traditional favorites with  loween. The evening featured a  
new events this semester, presi­ haunted house, pumpkin-carv­ 
dent Allie Courtney said.  ing contest and a 1920s-themed  
“Our ultimate goal is to bring  Murder Mystery dinner party.  
the Saint Mary’s community to- The semester concluded with  
gether through a variety of dif­ its  annual  Winter  Wonder­ 
ferent events,” Courtney said. “I  land, a holiday service event,  
think we have  in December.  
accomplished  Courtney said  
that  this  se­ the  Board  
mester.  We  paired  with  
hosted differ­ent events this  “Undoubtedly the best event of the semester  20 different clubs to pro- 
semester for a new change and appealed  was Belles Bash, our giant kick-off event.”  vide crafts and games for u nder pr iv i- 
to a different part of the stu­dent body.”  Allie Courtney president  leged children in the South Photo courtesy of Allie Courtney Bend commu- 
The  year  Student Activities Board  nity. Over 400 students gathered for inflatables, a DJ and laser tag in August for the Belles Bash that  
began on high  “We  defi­kicked off the school year at Saint Mary’s.  
note  with the  nitely  en- 
Belles  Bash,  c o u ra g e d  the dreary winter months.  she is nostalgic about heading  bittersweet for me to be going  
Courtney said.  c o m m u n i t y  “For next semester, Midnight  into her last semester with SAB,  into my last semester on SAB,  
She said over 400 students en- throughout our campus by col- Madness  will  be  returning,”  but is focused on planning suc­ but I know [SAB vice president]  
joyed inflatables, a DJ and a la­ laborating with a variety of  Courtney said. “The spring con­ cessful events.  Caitlyn Wonski, and I are de­ 
ser tag arena at the Bash.  clubs in Winter Wonderland,”  cert in April and SMC Tostal are  “We will finally host an out­ termined to make it special and  
“Undoubtedly the best event  Courtney said.  also in the works for next se­ door  movie,  scavenger  hunt,  full of great events.”  
of the semester was Belles Bash,  Courtney  said  she  expects  mester.”  canoe races, New Year’s party  
our giant kick-off event,” Court- more successful events from  After wrapping up the fall se­ and  more  Sundaes  on  Sun- contact Jillian Barwick at  
ney said. “It was a great way for  SAB in the spring to brighten up  mester, Courtney, a senior, said  day’s,” Courtney said. “It’s very  jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu  


RHA hosts spirit, service weeks 
From Harry Potter Trivia Nights to community service, president Kat Nelson said the Residence Hall Association (RHA) has hosted a number of successful events this semester. 
“RHA, along with the Hall Councils, have helped put on some amazing events so far this year,” Nelson said. “For RHA, we have had two very big events. One of [them] was Spirit Week, which included a pep rally and canoe races. We also put on a Service Week for those who serve the Saint Mary’s Community in a variety of ca­pacities.” 
Nelson said the annual all-school Saint Mary’s formal on Jan. 28 and Lil’ Sibs Weekend next semester are expected to be popular due to the success of RHA’s other events this year. 
“I am looking forward to watching RHA con­tinue to grow,” she said. “Many of the women in­volved this year are very passionate about what RHA does and enjoy taking part in planning our events. Their excitement and ideas are what build our organization.” 
-Bridget Feeney 

SBD raises awareness at College 
Saint Mary’s Student Diversity Board (SDB) will continue to bring inspiring and informative events to Saint Mary’s during the spring semester, presi­dent Kelly Reidenbach said. 
“The mission of SDB is to create awareness of diversity in order to educate, provide support, cel­ebrate differences within the Saint Mary’s College community by creating social events, educational programming and opportunities to initiate change,” she said. 
Reidenbach said the board, which has met weekly since August, has a busy but productive semester. 
“Our biggest events this past semester were the International Meet and Greet in August and the An­nual Bonfire in October,” Reidenbach said. 
Reidenbach said students can look forward to many events next spring, including Disabilities Awareness Week, Women’s Appreciation Week and the Diverse Students’ Leadership Conference (DSLC). 
“They are all amazing events, but DSLC is our big­gest event of the year,” she said. 
-Bridget Feeney 

SAC connects students, staff 
Student Academic Council (SAC) worked as a bridge between students and the administration this semester, student body vice president Jackie Zupancic said. 
Zupancic serves as the council’s president. The council includes one student representative from every academic department on campus. 
“We discuss issues such as class schedules, class times and other problems or concerns about stu­dent needs,” Zupancic said. “SAC’s purpose is to be the voice and liaison between the students and administration for issues of academics.” 
Next semester, SAC will host “Major Week,” which will promote the College’s different depart­ments and majors, and “Choose Your Major” night, which will allow underclassmen to discuss major options with faculty and fellow students. 
“With the change in the structure of the Student Government Association, I am excited to see SAC take on a stronger role for students’ issues in their departments,” she said. 
-Bridget Feeney 

FIRST-YEAR BOARD 
The First Year Board’s top priority this semester was adopting a charity cause, class board president McKenna Schuster said. 
The class adopted a family of five and is purchasing Christmas gifts for the family. Tonight, the class board will host the event “Holiday Belles,” where the class will gather to wrap presents for the family while enjoying Christmas cookies and hot chocolate. 
”We think it will be a great way to take a quick break from studying to bond as a class and get together for a good cause,” Schuster said. 
Next semester, the Board will begin planning their formal, which is set to take place in February. Schuster said the class plans to hold more events next semester, including class scaven­ger hunts, fundraisers and additional charity work. 
-Anna Boarini 


SOPHOMORE BOARD 
The Sophomore Class Board was hard at work this semester planning their class formal, which was held Nov. 18 in the Hag-gar College Center. 
Elliot Miller, sophomore class board president, said the night was a big success. 
“Even though we have nearly 60 class­mates studying abroad this semester, the formal had a great turn out,” Miller said. “Everyone seemed to enjoy the night tre­mendously.” 
Miller said this year, the Sophomore Class Board wanted to be more financially responsible. She said that so far, they have met that goal. 
The formal’s expenses were completely covered by the costs of tickets, Miller said. 
Next semester, the Board will host Soph­omore Parents Weekend in February and Miller said she hopes they can cover part of the cost with the money saved on this semester’s formal. 
-Anna Boarini 

JUNIOR BOARD 
The Junior Class Board spent the semester planning the Junior For­mal, which took place Dec. 2. 
Class board president Torrie Thompson said the formal was a success. 
“We are also considering planning another casual dance,” she said. 
Next semester, the board will fo­cus on planning for Junior Mom’s Weekend, which will take place in April. 
The weekend will include a wine and cheese party, a formal dinner with President Carol Ann Mooney and a mother-daughter social event. 
Belles and their mothers will also have the opportunity to tour the Riedinger House and there will be a silent auction to help raise money to cover the cost of Senior Week next year. 
-Anna Boarini 

SENIOR BOARD 
Fall semester, the Senior Class Board focused primarily on plan­ning for Senior Dad’s Weekend. The event featured a beer garden, silent auction and a Wake Forest game watch at the College Football Hall of Fame. 
The weekend concluded with a special Mass on Sunday for Belles and their fathers. 
Class board president Maggie De-Paola said the weekend was a suc­cess. 
“This is an exciting weekend to plan and is always a special time for the seniors and their dads,” she said.  
Next semester will be especially busy for the Senior Class Board as it prepares for events for Senior Week, including their senior class formal. 
-Anna Boarini 




