
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Genetics professor dies at 78 
Observer Staff Report 
Harvey Bender, professor of biological sciences and direc­tor of the Human Genetics Pro­
gram at the University of Notre Dame, died Satur­day at the age of 78, according to a Univer­sity press re­lease. 
Bender 
joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1960. His award-winning research and teaching focused on human developmental genetics and the epidemiology of human ge­netic disease. Most recently, he taught two courses at Notre 

see BENDER/page 4 


Alcohol misuse leads to ER 
Excessive intoxication sends students to hospital, ORLH 


By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
At least 10 ambulances have responded to alcohol-related incidents on Notre Dame’s campus so far this semester, according to Notre Dame Se­curity Police (NDSP). 
NDSP Director Phil John­son said extreme intoxication 
Professor calls killing of al-Qaeda leader ‘illegal’ 


By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
The killing of al-Qaeda leader Anwar al-Awlaki by the U.S. military was illegal, interna­tional law Professor Mary Ellen O’Connell said Tuesday. 
Awlaki, a radical Islamist cleric, was killed in an air strike Friday after hiding in Yemen for the past four years, according to a University press release. The CIA and U.S. Joint Special Operations Command carried out the strike. 
O’Connell said the killing was not within the rights of the mil­itary because it occurred out­side of a combat zone. 
“Today under internation­
al  law, the U.S. is involved  
in  armed  conflict  hostilities  
in  Afghanistan  and  Libya,”  

O’Connell said. “Those are the only two places where the U.S. 
see AL-QAEDA/page 5 
should not be taken lightly. 
“Sometimes a student sees another student drink too much,” Johnson said. “Putting them to bed can be a very dan­gerous idea … You can’t sim­ply put someone to bed who is intoxicated who might aspi­rate and stop breathing.” 
In 2010-2011, Johnson said ambulances transported in­dividuals to the hospital for alcohol poisoning on 78 occa­sions. 

The prior school year, NDSP reported 76 alcohol-related dispatches for ambulances, and from 2008-2009, 71. At one of two local hospitals, stu­dents can receive treatment 
see ALCOHOL/page 5 
ND police respond to attack claim 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) notified students of a sexual assault that allegedly occurred outside a campus residence hall early Saturday. 
In an email to the student body Tuesday night, police stated that a student was sexually assaulted by an ac­quaintance outside a dorm in the early morning hours. 
A third party reported the assault to a campus adminis­trator, the report stated. 
Police warned students to be vigilant regarding sexual assault. 
“Sexual assault can happen to anyone at any time,” the email stated.  “College stu­dents are more likely to be as­saulted by an acquaintance, 
see ASSAULT/page 4 



Week advocates respect for life 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 

Greater acknowledgement for even the smallest life is at the heart of Respect Life Week, Right to Life club president Sam Stempky said. 
Stempky, a junior, said the week is intended to bring atten­tion to matters relating to hu­man life that may not otherwise attract the necessary dialogue. 
“We need a greater apprecia­tion for the importance of these issues,” she said. “[Abortion] is a prevalent issue that isn’t talk­ed about.” 
Respect Life Week is a part of the national Respect Life Month, held in October each year. 
Senior Ann Marie McCabe, the club’s Respect Life Week commissioner, said the week-long celebration has become a campus tradition. 
“This is an opportunity for the greater student body to be aware of Respect Life issues in a very prayerful way,” she said. 
The most recent statistics published by the National Cen­ter for Health Statistics report 231 abortions for every 1,000 live births in 2007 — a near­ly 1-to-4 ratio. According to PlannedParenthood.org, one in three women will have an abor­tion by the time she is 45 years old. 


“We have a very loving fo­cus on a very hurtful issue,” Stempky said. “We’re not about throwing graphic images in people’s faces, yet we want peo­ple to know the truth.” 
Events already held this week include Monday’s pre­sentation and lecture by Re­becca Kiessling. Kiessling was conceived by rape and nearly aborted twice. She speaks around the country for pro-life events, Stempky said. 
Club vice president Jason Taulman said around 40 people showed up for the talk. 
“As a woman conceived in rape and a family law attorney, she has a great balance of per­sonal anecdotes and academic arguments,” he said. “Her en­tire existence is a reminder that this is not a purely philosophi­cal, moral or legal debate, but in reality, human lives are at stake.” 
Abortion and its moral impli­cations can hit close to home, even for Notre Dame, Taulman 
see LIFE/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER College dedicates Unity Garden page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Squirrels photo essay page 8 u Football team prepares for Air Force page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u Day-to-Day Wednesday, October 5, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS A FACT ABOUT NTDS THAT THE AVERAGE STUDENT MIGHT NOT KNOW? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports John Cameron Sam Gans Mel Flanagan Jack Hefferon Jillian Barwick Walker Carey Graphics Scene Elisa DeCastro Mary Claire Photo O’Donnell Suzanna Pratt Viewpoint Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS In the Oct. 4 issue: The score of the Keenan-O’Neill interhall game was 35-6 in favor of Keenan, not tied at 14; the ‘Belles for Boobies’ 5-K will take place Oct. 9, not Oct. 8; the Napoleon Telescope was a gift from Napoleon III, not Napoleon I. The Observer apologizes for these errors.  


Amanda Leung  Sarah Lovejoy  Nathan Lamp  Chris Wynkoop  Eileen Lynch  
freshman  sophomore  freshman  grad student  junior  
Lyons  Breen-Phillips  Siegfried  off campus  Ryan  
“It only takes 50  “1.4 billion  “NTDs are as  “NTDs used to  “All the medicine  
cents to save a  people are  prevalent and  be somewhat  to treat the  
life.”  affected  deadly as HIV/  prevalent in the  diseases has  
worldwide, but  AIDS, but not  U.S., but have  been developed  
you’ve probably  near as widely  been eliminated  and donated at  
never heard  known.”  by advances in  no cost.”  
about them.”  health care.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Russian media tycoon questioned over talk show punch-up 
MOSCOW — Russian bil­lionaire and British media magnate Alexander Lebe­dev is being investigated for throwing a punch at a fel­low entrepreneur on a prime time television talk show, prosecutors said Tuesday. 
Lebedev, the owner of Britain’s The Independent and London Evening Stan­dard newspapers, faces up to five years imprisonment under the criminal charges. 
Goaded by Polonsky’s com­ment that he would rather hit someone than discuss financial matters with oli­garchs, Lebedev sprung up and punched the notoriously brash property tycoon in the face, sending him wheeling backward off the stage set. 

While former KGB agent Lebedev defended his move, a dazed Polonsky swiftly said he would seek legal ac­tion, posting images of his ripped trousers and scratch­es on his blog. 
Mass. official who per­formed bra trick resigns 

ABINGTON, Mass. — The chairman of a Massachu­setts school board has re­signed days after performing a magic trick at a televised meeting that made it appear as if he had removed a fellow board member’s bra. 
Russell FitzGerald said he resigned from the Abington School Committee on Mon­day after a weekend of re­flection. 
He tells The Enterprise of Brockton that fallout from the trick played a part in his decision. The meeting was on live TV and was met in the room with silence and embarrassment. 
FitzGerald is an ama­teur magician who gener­ally started meetings with a trick. Neither the subject of the Sept. 27 bra trick nor his accomplice knew what was going to happen. 
FitzGerald also noted he’s been on the board 11 years and his term is almost up. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Cinema Play House Pho­tographs by Nandita Raman will be on view at the Snite Museum of Art. The suite, created by Nandita Raman, features interiors of cinema houses built in the Indian cities of Varanasi, Delhi and Kolkata. These images are on view today from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Today from 4:30 to 6 p.m., Terry Eagleton, a distin­guished visiting professor from Britain, is hosting an undergraduate lecture titled “The Contradictions of Os­car Wilde” in 126 DeBartolo Hall. 
The Interrace Forum titled “Fixing Public Education: Why Money isn’t the An­swer?” will be held this eve­ning from 5:30 to 7 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Lounge. Dinner will be provided. 
Tonight from 6 to 7 p.m. there will be an informa­tion session about the Inter­natitonal Summer Service Learning Program 2012. Learn more from former participants at sites like Ban­gladesh and El Salvador. All sessions will be held in the McNeill Library in Geddes Hall. The application dead­line is Oct. 30 at midnight. 
Tonight from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m., the DeBartolo Perform­ing Arts Center presents “The Secret in the Wings” by Mary Zimmerman. Prices are $15 for regular admis­sion, $12 for faculty and staff and $7 for students. The per­formance will be held in the Philbin Studio Theatre. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 

Wednesday, October 5, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 

College dedicates Unity Garden 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s Unity Gar­den will stand as a symbol of social justice and sustainabil­ity, Director of Justice Educa­tion Jan Pilarski said. 
The garden, located in front of Havican Hall, was dedicat­ed Tuesday. 
Pilarski said Karen Borja, a 2011 graduate, spearheaded the project. Senior Heather Smith took responsibility for planting the garden this sum­mer as an intern with Unity Gardens, a South Bend non­profit that advocates commu­nity building through garden­ing. 
“I hope this garden becomes something bigger [so] that we can have an option for healthy food that students can grow and learn about,” Smith said. 
To achieve that “something bigger,” Smith said she tapped into landscaping services at the College to help her expand the garden. 
“When I started planting, I realized the garden was pretty small, so landscaping helped me double the size,” she said. “They did the la­bor, like tilling the land and building the [wooden support] frames, and I cared for the garden.” 
Smith said she enjoyed hav­ing the freedom to choose what vegetables went into the garden. 
“I went with a salad theme for the garden. If students saw okra or a huge head of cabbage, they might not know what to do with it,” she said, “I planted lots of leafy lettuce, mustard greens, kale, swish chard, tomatoes and herbs.” 
On Mondays over the sum-mer, preschoolers from the Early Childhood Development Center, which has its own Unity Garden, joined Smith to help weed and pick vegeta­bles, she said. 


“It was great to have them out there, helping, tasting let­tuce,” Smith said. “They were great.” 
Smith said the garden raised her awareness about local food security problems. 
“There are some people who need healthy food but can’t get it from anywhere else [other than the Unity Gardens],” she said. 
The garden was made pos­sible through the Dooley En­dowment, a fund intended for student-initiated social justice projects, Pilarski said. The endowment is named after Saint Mary’s alumnus Katherine T. Dooley, ’28. 
“She was passionate about social justice and Saint Mary’s,” Pilarski said. 
There are 41 other Unity Gardens of varying sizes in the South Bend area, Sara Stewart, executive director for Unity Gardens, said. 
Stewart added that the gar­dens help close social divi­sions. 
“We live in a society that separates us, and gardens are a natural way to share,” she said. “By bringing together people that would usually never interact, we can see our strengths in different ways.” 
Stewart said the interactive aspect of the gardens is more significant than the garden­ing itself. 
“This isn’t just about access to healthy vegetables,” she said. “It’s more about unifi­cation of the community and social cohesion.” 
Contact anna Boarini at aboari1@saintmarys.edu 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
Group proposes SMC leadership program 
By KRISTEN RICE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Student Gov­ernment Association dis­cussed the possibility of establishing a student leader­ship development program at its Tuesday meeting. 
The proposed leadership program would include semi­nars, workshops and guest speakers. 
Student body president Ni­cole Gans said the program would offer an opportunity for 
the whole asso­ciation to con­tribute toward something with tangible re­sults. 
“This is a way for everyone on our council to be involved,” Gans said. “This is some­thing that we can start this year.” 
Executi ve treasurer Liz Busam said a 
program emphasizing leader­ship skill-building could have a lasting impact on partici­pants. 
“This will have positive ef­fects that take [the] Saint Mary’s [experience] through the rest of our lives,” she said. 
Student Services commis­sioner Laura Glaub said the association would be a good group to initiate the program 
“This is a way for 
individual 
everyone on our council 
seminars 
to be involved. This 
should be 
is something that we cohesive. can start this year.” “We need to try 
to connect each lead-
Nicole Gans 
student body president 
with before expanding to oth­er students. 
“I love this idea,” Glaub said. “I think its great we start it here in this room be­cause then it can branch off into other clubs.” 
Student body vice president Jacqualyn Zupancic said the program could encourage stu­dents outside of traditional student leadership positions to share their ideas for im­proving the College. 
“We need different perspec­tives and we need to think 
outside the 
box,” she 
said. 
Zupan­
cic said the 
ership sem­
inar,” she 
said. 
In keep­
ing with the theme of student engage­ment and differing perspec­tives, Gans said the associa­tion would field any input on the development of the pro­gram. 
“We want to be able to do whatever people feel inspired to do.” 
Contact Kristen Rice at krice01@saintmarys.edu 



Sexual assault lecture encourages dialogue 
By JESSICA VRAVIS 
News Writer 
Open dialogue is one of the greatest tools to help eliminate violence against women, said Tena Dellaca-Hedrick, a victim advocate and outreach educa­
tor at the Fort Wayne Sexual Assault Treat­ment Center, in a lecture Tuesday. 
“Sile nce really is a killer,” she said. “By not talking about issues we don’t address them.” 
The Belles Against Vio­lence Office sponsore d Dellaca-Hed­rick’s lecture, “From Pas­sion to Pur­
“When [Dellaca-Hedrick] 
after the as-
said that three quarters of 
sault, she 
women experience some said. kind of sexual violence Senior Bri­in their lifetime, I was anda Salas 
shocked. Simply burying said the lec­the issue in the back of ture changed 
her precon­
our minds isn’t going 
ceptions
to help anyone. There 
about how
needs to be awareness.” 
common vio­lence against 
Brianda Salas 
women is. senior “When 
pose: a Survivor’s Story,” held at Saint Mary’s. 
Dellaca-Hedrick said it is im­portant to not make general­izations about survivors of vio­lence, who are more common than some might think. 
“Making assumptions about people and experiences victim­izes them,” she said. “It victim­izes them all over again.” 
Dellaca-Hedrick said the most important part of her job is to inform survivors of the options they have to respond to their assault. Part of support­ing a victim, either as a profes­sional or friend, is accepting and support­ing the deci­sions the sur­vivor makes 
[Dellaca-Hed­rick] said that three quar­ters of women 
experience some kind of sexual violence in their lifetime, I was shocked,” she said. “Simply burying the issue in the back of our minds isn’t going to help anyone. There needs to be awareness.” 
Contact Jessica Vravis at jvravi01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEwS Wednesday, October 5, 2011 

ND celebrates feast of St. Francis 

By BROOKE KOVANDA 
News Writer 
While the “green” movement may be a modern phenom­enon, the University looked back into Church history for inspiration as it commenced its annual celebration of the Feast of Saint Francis, pa­tron saint of the environment, Tuesday. 
The celebration began with a mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart led by Fr. Tom Doyle, University vice presi­dent for Student Affairs. 
Doyle said the life of Saint Francis is still relevant today, as it pertains to the role of Christians as stewards of cre­ation. 
“The importance and beauty of creation is no longer just for people who live on the fringe,” Doyle said. 
The feast day celebration was not limited to the Basil­ica. Students who did not at­tend Mass were reminded of the day’s significance in the dining halls, where animal and environment-themed des­serts included “dirt cake” and cakes shaped like dogs, ducks and pigs. 
The evening culminated in a lecture by Professor Matthew Ashley, chair of the Theology Department. 
His lecture stressed the im­portance of the Catholic influ­ence on the debates of sustain­ability and environmentalism in the past and present. 
Ashley said the implications of pollution and resource de­pletion are especially signifi­cant in Third World countries. While engineers and scien­tists are well equipped to ad­dress these issues, he said the theologian could also provide insight into how these issues impact human life and dignity. 
“The place where concrete impact can happen is in dis­course at a Catholic univer­sity,” he said. 
Ashley said the lessons of Saint Francis are for not meant just for Catholic ears. 
“Saint Francis of Assisi can [transcend] Catholicism and Christianity to reach all peo­ple,” he said. 
Contact Brooke Kovanda at bkovanda@nd.edu 
One dead in NYC helicopter crash 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — A helicop­ter carrying five people on a private tour for a birthday celebration sputtered and crashed into the East River on Tuesday afternoon shortly after takeoff from a river­bank heliport, killing one passenger and injuring three others. 
The victim, visiting the city with her family to celebrate her 40th birthday, appar­ently was trapped inside as the chopper sank about 50 feet below the surface of the swift-moving water, police said. New York Police Depart­ment divers pulled her from the water about 90 minutes after the Bell 206 Jet Ranger went down at around 3 p.m. She was pronounced dead at the scene. 
Emergency crews arrived within seconds of the crash to find the helicopter upside-down in the murky water with just its skids showing on the surface. The pilot, Paul Dudley, and three passengers were bobbing, and witnesses reported a man diving down, possibly in an attempt to res­cue the remaining passenger. 
The passengers were friends of the pilot's fam­ily: Paul and Harriet Nichol­son, a British husband and wife who live in Portugal; the wife's daughter, Sonia Marra, also British, who died at the scene; and the daugh­ter's friend Helen Tamaki, an Australian. The daughter and her friend were living in Sydney. 
Bender 
continued from page 1 
Dame. 
He studied chemistry and English at Case Western Re­serve University before com­pleting graduate studies in developmental genetics at Northwestern University, ac­cording to the press release. Bender received both his mas­ter’s and doctoral degrees at Northwestern. 
Outside of Notre Dame, Bend­er served as the founding di­rector of the Regional Genetics Center at Memorial Hospital in South Bend, the release stated. The professor was also a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and a founding fellow of the Ameri­can College of Medical Genetics. 
Bender is preceded in death by his wife Eileen and is sur­vived by his three children and eight grandchildren. 
A memorial service for Bend­er will be held at 11 a.m. Thurs­day at Temple Beth-El, 305 W. Madison St., South Bend. In lieu of flowers, the family has asked that memorial contributions be made in Bender’s honor to the University. Donations should be addressed “In Memory of Harvey A. Bender, University of Notre Dame, 1100 Grace Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556.” 
Condolences may be sent to the Benders at 1100 North Lake Shore Drive, Apartment 28B, Chicago, IL 60611-5212. 

steps you can take to reduce the risk of sexual assault.” 
Information about sexual assault prevention and re­sources for survivors of sexu­al assault are available on the NDSP website, ndsp.nd.edu, and through the University’s Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention. 

They met in New York to celebrate the birthdays of Marra and Paul Nicholson, 
71. They were sightseeing and had planned to go to Lin­den, N.J., for dinner after­ward, police said. 
The pilot's wife, Sunhe Dudley, told The Associated Press that she had spoken to her husband briefly after the crash. 
"I think that he's OK," she said. "These were actually very dear friends of ours that were in the helicopter." 
The three surviving pas­sengers were pulled from the water shortly after emer­gency crews arrived on the scene, police spokesman Paul Browne said. All were hospi­talized. The pilot was unin­jured and swam to shore. 
Assault 
continued from page 1 
which means the assault could be part of the campus com­munity. Being aware of your own safety and watching out for your friends are important 


Wednesday, October 5, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
people are safe and are getting pact of the misconduct on the ers, our sisters, our friends. We 
Alcohol 
the best care when presented community and prior similar 
Life 

want people to have all the infor­with a potentially life-threat-cases will be among the fac­
mation.” continued from page 1 ening situation,” he said. “Call tors considered in determining 
continued from page 1 Coinciding with Respect Life 9-1-1, and take care of the per-a sanction,” O’Leary said. 
Week is 40 Days for Life, an in-ranging from rehydration to son. Life safety comes first.” According to du Lac, this 
said. ternational initiative with a stomach pumping for alcohol Kathleen O’Leary, director sanction could include alcohol 
“As a student at this fine uni-chapter in South Bend. Held poisoning. of Residence Life for the Office counseling, loss of on-campus 
versity, I think many of us, my-from Sept. 28 to Nov. 6, 40 Days Johnson said these statistics of Student Affairs, agreed with parking and driving privileges, 
self included, forget how real and for Life began in Texas in 2004. include both Notre Dame stu-Johnson. community service and disci­
how prevalent this issue is in our Shawn Sullivan, director of dents and visitors to campus. “When a friend has con-plinary probation, among oth­
world, and hearing this talk was South Bend’s 40 Days for Life, Football weekends increase sumed alcohol and you are er punishments. 
a great reminder of the inherent said there has been some student the risk of excessive intoxica-concerned about their well-be-Christine Nowak, director of 
value of life, no matter whether participation in the South Bend tion on campus, Johnson said, ing, always contact hall staff or the Office of Alcohol and Drug 
it was created within the most chapter. and more alcohol-related trips NDSP at 9-1-1 for medical as-Education, said her office ex-
violent of situations or the most “With the last few campaigns, to the hospital occur during sistance,” O’Leary said. “Leav-ists to educate students about 
positively life-giving marriage,” the primary goal has been to get the fall semester. ing a friend to ‘sleep it off’ is the consequences of alcohol 
he said. more Notre Dame students and “During the fall we often extremely dangerous … While abuse. 
A rosary was prayed with faculty involved,” he said. see an uptick, definitely an up-the University does not cur-“We are student-friendly, 
University President Fr. John The event involves fasting, tick on Saturdays [for football rently have a medical amnesty student-driven and educa-
Jenkins Tuesday evening in the prayer and a community vigil at weekends],” Johnson said. policy, the surrounding cir-tional,” Nowak said. “We’re 
Basilica. A showing of the docu-a local abortion clinic, he said. Emergency medical respond-cumstances of an alleged viola-not a part of discipline, not a 
mentary, “Thine Eyes: A Witness Sullivan hopes to expand par­ers need to evaluate a number tion of University policy are al-counseling office and not the 
to the March for Life,” will be ticipation in South Bend’s 40 of factors when they deal with ways taken into consideration.” police. We are giving students 
held tonight in Geddes Hall Au-Days for Life campaign beyond a student who is extremely O’Leary’s office handles dis-the power to make better deci­
ditorium at 7:00 p.m. The docu-its current, largely Catholic intoxicated. Johnson said an cipline cases for students who sions.” 
mentary focuses on the annual membership. EMT will evaluate a patient’s are taken to the hospital for ex-Excessive drinking is a prob-
March for Life in Washington, “We want other faith groups to level of responsiveness, gen-cessive drinking. lem on most college campuses, 
D.C. get involved,” he said. “It’s ecu­eral medical history, ability to “When addressing instances Nowak said. 
A display of crosses will be menical in nature.” speak and stand, blood alcohol of severe intoxication, our of-“There’s a progression, and 
placed on South Quad near the Community outreach is also content (BAC) and other fac-fice’s primary concern is for at the far end of that progres­
flagpole Thursday evening, and part of 40 Days for Life, Sullivan tors. that student’s physical, emo-sion is alcohol poisoning, sex-
a cupcake sale Friday will raise said. The group will welcome “From a first response stand-tional and spiritual health ual assault and property dam-
money for Hannah’s House, a Peter Kreeft, a Boston College point, we make sure we get and well-being,” O’Leary said. age,” Nowak said. “The biggest 
“supervised visitation and ex-professor and religious speaker, appropriate medical care to “Students will meet with us change has to happen at the 
change center” catering to par-to St. Pius X Church in Granger, someone who needs it,” he said. to go through the disciplinary student level with students 
ents and children with limited Ind., on Oct. 14. In over 20 years with NDSP, process, which we intend to be positively confronting other 
visitation rights, according to The South Bend chapter also Johnson said both law enforce-an educational one.” students ... This is a safety con-
the organization’s website. hosts a second 40 Days for Life ment and campus officials have The disciplinary process is a cern and a health concern.” 
Stempky said she hopes the during Lent, he said. become more proactive about chance to have “an educational While some students might 
events held during the Week will “Forty days — that’s a pe­alcohol education. conversation” about decision-shy away from these conver­
convey the gravity of abortion. riod of transformation,” Sulli­“I think now that we are making, as well as the Univer-sations, Nowak said express­
“It is necessary to bring van said. “It’s representative of more keenly aware of the per-sity’s expectations and policies ing concern about dangerous 
awareness to life issues and the scripture, and we draw on that ils of alcohol with an overdose, regarding alcohol possession drinking habits to a friend is 
immense impact they have on transformative period we see re-we are operating with more and consumption. O’Leary said important. 
all of us,” Stempky said. “The peated throughout the Bible.” caution,” Johnson said. students could also receive al-“For some folks, that’s all 
abortion issue isn’t talked about Some students are reluctant cohol assessment and educa-they need to hear from a 
enough. One in three women Contact amanda Gray at to call an ambulance for an tion through the Office of Alco-friend,” Nowak said. “I have 
have abortions - that’s our moth-agray3@nd.edu underage friend in danger be-hol and Drug Education. great faith that students can cause they are afraid of disci-“If the Office of Residence change the culture if they want plinary consequences for that Life determines that a stu-to and make it safe and healthy person or for themselves, John-dent is responsible for a vio-for everyone … A lot of people 
ferently than we have ever re-son said. lation of University policy, the have a social life without alco­
Al-Qaeda 

sponded to terrorist attacks be-But he said discipline is far nature of the offense and the hol.” 
fore,” she said. from the minds of emergency circumstances surrounding it, 
continued from page 1 O’Connell also criticized the responders. the student’s prior disciplinary Contact Megan Doyle at 
U.S. for the number of civilian “We’re trying to make sure violations — if any — the im-mdoyle11@nd.edu 
military is permitted to carry casualties in Friday’s raid. out the kind of killing we saw While governments toler­in Yemen.” ate the unintentional killing 
Aside from armed conflict, of civilians in a combat zone, the only permissible reason to O’Connell said there is no such take a human life is the imme-collateral damage rule for diate need to save another life, peacetime law enforcement op-she said. erations. 
O’Connell added that while a “If there is a sniper trying to person can interpret the word get the hostage-taker, he can’t “immediate” in different ways, drop a bomb and kill the hos-the U.S. has a great deal of ex-tages along with the hostage­perience in exercising the use taker,” she said. of force and should know the An expert from the United meaning of the word in prac-Nations responsible for investi­tice. gating extrajudicial killing, the 
“That standard is well-killing of individuals by a gov-known. It’s the standard that ernment without legal proceed-governs police forces,” she said. ings, will review the actions of “A policeman doesn’t get to say, the U.S., O’Connell said. ‘Well, I’m going to kill this per-“The U.S. was already con-son because I think in another demned for a very similar act week or month they might help in Yemen in 2002, and the cur-another person attempt to car-rent U.N. special rapporteur ry out the bombing of an air-will be looking into this ac-plane.’” tion,” she said. “I expect that he 
O’Connell said the CIA be-will also criticize the U.S., and came more active in Yemen in that a number of governments 2003, where previously the FBI will probably say something as had maintained a close rela-well.” tionship with the Yemeni gov-O’Connell said many interna­ernment as part of a joint ter-tional leaders will avoid speak­rorism investigation. ing out against the killing be-
In recent years, however, the cause they are distracted by the 
U.S. has been building a com-economy or will not risk their bative presence in Yemen, she relationship with the U.S. said. “But that does not mean we 
“In the course of about 10 did the right thing,” she said. years, we went through a big “In my view, the U.S. should al­change in Yemen from the FBI ways do the right thing — we and civilian law enforcement, should always promote the rule which is what I think is appro-of law.” priate, to a CIA and military op-O’Connell said Awlaki should eration,” O’Connell said. have been arrested and put on 
O’Connell said the CIA is not trial, after which he would have the U.S. military and does not likely been sent to prison. have any right to be involved in “I’m a Catholic, and I believe armed conflict killing, although the right to life is very precious the agency has become more and has to be taken very seri­directly involved in combative ously,” she said. “I don’t think efforts abroad since the tragedy that happened here.” of Sept. 11, 2001. 
“It was a direct result of the Contact Mel Flanagan at decision to respond to 9/11 dif-mflanag3@nd.edu 



page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, October 5, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

An O-line observer 
I have been a proud and loyal pro­fessional football fan ever since I was young. While I have seen my allegiances change from the Los Angeles Raiders to the Dallas Cowboys to the Cleveland Browns and finally to my hometown Chicago Bears, there has been one part of my football fandom that has remained overwhelmingly consistent, and that has been my fascina­tion with watching offensive lines. 
There has always been something in­triguing to me about seeing five 300-pound plus guys lining up across from a defensive front with the lone objective of knocking the snot out of the guy in front of them. Luckily, throughout my fandom, I have had the pleasure of watching some of the best ever go to work in protecting quarter­backs and paving the way for running games. 
When I was a lame, front-running grade-schooler, I had an obsession with the Dallas Cowboys. Sure, the Cowboys had superstar power with Troy Aikman, Emmitt Smith, Michael Irvin and Deion Sanders, but they also lined up Larry Al­len at guard and Erik Williams at tackle. Even at a young age, I knew there was something special about watching a left side of an offensive line that accumulat­ed a total of 15-career-Pro Bowls by the time their careers ended. 
In the early 2000s, the St. Louis Rams and Kansas City Chiefs deservingly garnered a great deal of fanfare for their explosive offenses. Kurt Warner, Marshall Faulk, Isaac Bruce, Torry Holt, Trent Green, Priest Holmes, Larry Johnson, Tony Gonzalez and Dante Hall all became household names. However, what most fans did not seem to realize was that All-Pro offensive lines were protecting both of these offenses. The Rams possessed the luxuries of Pro Bowl guard Adam Timmerman and Pro Bowl tackle Orlando Pace. The Chiefs started three Pro Bowlers in tackle Willie Roaf and guards Will Shields and Brian Wa­ters. 
When the New England Patriots won three Super Bowls in four seasons, all anyone could talk about was Tom Brady and Bill Belichick. Yet, center Damien Woody (and later Dan Koppen), guards Joe Andruzzi and Stephen Neal and tackle Matt Light were all more than instrumental in bringing the Lombardi Trophy to Foxboro each time. 
On the contrary, I have had the unfor­tunate displeasure of having to watch the porous, revolving door offensive line of my beloved Chicago Bears over the past three seasons. Just as great offen­sive lines open up the rest of the offense, a poor offense line can prevent an of­fense from making any sort of substan­tial impact. 
While I understand that the casual football fan will probably never devote time to focusing on the offensive lines during the course of a football game, I believe it would be in the best interest of every fan to just try it for one quarter. If I were asked to make suggestions, watch Browns tackle Joe Thomas, Dolphins tackle Jake Long or Jets center Nick Mangold — I guarantee even the most casual fans will be amazed at what they see. 

Contact Walker Carey at      wcarey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Get the government out of marriage 
What is the one institution that has a monopoly on defining marriage? Initially, you may think that religion does. After all, dozens of people gather for the wedding at particular religious establishment of choice. Then, the Brian Kaneb couple is pronounced “man and wife” and Guest they are a married Columnist couple. All of the important moments seem to happen in some sort of place of worship. 
Yet, the sad fact is that our govern­ment defines marriage. Your marriage is not recognized until both parties sign an official government document after the ceremony. Though some couples would like to ignore this — af­ter all, it’s only the fact that they share a true love that counts — that is simply unrealistic. 
If you do not conform to the govern­ment’s official definition of marriage, countless economic benefits will be lost. Literally every single program that the government manages dis­criminates against such people. For a glimpse into this injustice, just take a brief look at the American tax system. 
In 2004, the United States Govern­ment Accountability Office (GAO) “identified a total of 1,138 federal statutory provisions classified to the United States Code in which marital status is a factor in determining or re­ceiving benefits, rights and privileges.” The result is that, amongst other tax breaks, the standard deduction for an officially married is $11,600. On the other hand, the standard deduction for 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

an unrecognized couple is just $5,800. 
Getting away from the tax code, unrecognized couples rarely get equal consideration by our courts. As everybody knows, not every relation­ship ends happily. Even after years together, one person may choose to leave the other. A legal battle over property rights, amongst other things, often ensues. One partner typically comes out disappointed and feels like he or she got the short end of the stick. But what if this person couldn’t even go to court due to a lack of standing? Such is the case with the vast majority unrecognized couples. Because states only allow their courts to consider civil cases pertaining to official couples, many are forced to resolve the dispute by themselves. Without the rule of law, one person often runs the risk lose everything when a relationship ends. 
Even when it comes to death, certain couples are treated unequally. Let’s take two hypothetical people, Alex and Jesse. They are a retired couple and have lived happily together as a couple for 30 years. Then, one day, Alex dies in a controversial car ac­cident. Preliminary reports indicate that the car’s braking system may have malfunctioned. Jesse is left alone, but for one reason or another, was never recognized as Alex’s spouse by the gov­ernment. Thus, Jesse cannot transfer Alex’s 401k funds into her own retire­ment account. 
Despite being invested in a relation­ship for decades, the government does not believe that she qualifies for the same treatment as a married couple. 
In many cases, Jesse can’t even take a wrongful death lawsuit to court because she won’t get any benefits. On top of this, she is left with the extra cost of burying her partner without any government support. The typical married couple would receive upwards of $225 in assistance, but this is not the case for Jesse. 
It is for all these reasons that all levels of government should recognize civil unions and leave the definition of marriage to society. If there is any­thing my article has shown, it is that our government cannot handle defin­ing marriage. It abuses this power. 
By solely recognizing civil unions, regardless of sexuality, we can bypass controversy and put our country on the fast track towards fixing this problem. Conservatives should be satisfied with civil unions because they do not force marriage on anybody. The government would stay out of marriage, allowing any specific religious community to be able to marry whomever they want. Liberals should be satisfied with civil unions because they guarantee equal rights to all couples. Even if a religion chooses not to marry specific types of people, they would still be able to ap­ply for a civil union and receive equal benefits from the government. 
Ask yourself: Why should the gov­ernment play favorites? 
Brian Kaneb is a sophomore. He can be reached at bkaneb1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I have a fine sense of the ridiculous, but no sense of humor.” 
Edward Albee 
U.S. playwright 


WEEKLY POLL 
Hip-hop night at Legends is ... 
The best part of my weekend A waste of time Great for people-watching Where I display my killer moves 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 


Wednesday, October 5, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 

Knowledge 
There is a price to be paid for reflec­tion. 
Consider two very different concep­tions of knowledge. According to the first, to know that some action is right in some situation is to respond to that situation, whenever it occurs, by per­forming that action. According to the second, to know that some action is right in some situation is to have a justifica­tion for performing that action in that situation. 
The first concep­tion is of knowledge as consistency; the second conception is of knowledge as reflection. Bernard Williams, in his Eth­ics and the Limits of Philosophy, argues that the second tends to subvert the first 
—
 that reflection upon one’s moral con­cepts, in other words, tends to destroy one’s consistency in the application of, and in the response to, those concepts. 

Moral concepts, Williams argues, are thick — are, that is, “at the same time world-guided and action-guiding;” so­cieties that employ such concepts agree upon when they are to be applied and what is to be done when they are applied 

—
 they agree, that is, on an impersonal moral criterion. Williams argues that this agreement will survive within any “society that is maximally homogenous and minimally given to general reflec­tion” — within, that is, a traditional society. The members of such a society would use the same thick concepts in the same situations: Their moral beliefs would, in one sense, “track the truth.” 


In another sense, however, their moral beliefs would be systematically false, for the thick concepts of traditional soci­eties typically have implications that, upon reflection, are false. Suppose that the members of our traditional society follow what they take to be a divine law — and that they agree, moreover, regarding the content of this divine law. Perhaps they refuse to practice abortion, for example, because they believe that their god will punish it. But those who are, like us, outside of this society are unlikely to be certain that such a god even exists — and given that “we have rejected the descriptive half” of their moral beliefs, “is there any reason to ac­cept the other half?” One is tempted to deny, therefore, that the members of the society ever had moral knowledge in the first place. 

Williams points out, however, that “there is a minimal sense in which the locals think it ‘all right’ to act as they do, and they do not merely imply this, but reveal it, in the way they live. To say that they ‘think it all right’ at this level is not to mention any further and disputable judgment of theirs; it is merely to record their practice.” Williams denies that the members of the society must accept the reflective judgment that abortion is wrong by citing the existence of their god — or, for that matter, any of the gen­eral implications of their moral beliefs: They have not yet engaged in a practice of reflection upon those beliefs in an attempt to derive from them reflective judgments — that is, a moral system. The members of the traditional society simply live in the way that they live; in being trained in that way of life, they learn how to apply their thick concepts in a way that tracks the truth — and is, in that sense, moral knowledge. 
But it is highly likely, Williams sug­gests, that the thick concepts of a tra­ditional society have false implications 
— and that, therefore, reflection can destroy moral knowledge. “If we ac­cept that there can be knowledge at the [traditional or] unreflective level; if we accept the obvious truth that reflection characteristically disturbs, unseats or replaces those traditional concepts; and if we agree that, at least as things are, the reflective level is not in a position to give us knowledge we did not have before — then we can reach the notably un-Socratic conclusion that, in ethics, reflection can destroy knowledge.” 
Reflection destroys moral knowledge not by showing that one has been deploy­ing one’s thick concepts incorrectly, but rather by rendering one unable to use those concepts at all, given the false im­plications of any use of those concepts. Consider again the traditional society and its refusal to practice abortion. That abortion should be permitted or forbid­den at all implies that there is a god who permits or forbids it. If the traditional society comes to doubt, upon reflection, that there is such a god, then no one in that society can believe of abortion — or anything else — that it is either permit­ted or forbidden. 
Even given that reflection is likely to destroy their old moral concepts, however, one might wonder whether reflection might lead our society to new moral concepts. While they can no longer use those thick concepts that they had inherited — which they knew well how to apply — perhaps they can learn to use more general concepts that are similarly guided by the world. Williams notes, however, what characteristi­cally happens when consensus is sought between different groups with differ­ent thick concepts: “Discussions at the reflective level, if they have the ambition of considering all ethical experience and arriving at the truth about the ethical, will necessarily use the most general and abstract ethical concepts such as ‘right,’ and those concepts do not display world-guidedness.” 

Williams worries that, in the end, the only ethical concepts on which all will reflectively agree will be devoid of any standard of application. MacIntyre believes, of course, that this is just what happened to ethics when the medieval consensus on the thick concepts of Aris­totelian philosophy collapsed. And this collapse brought, not coincidentally, a collapse in virtue: What Williams calls moral knowledge is just the tendency to respond to certain situations in certain ways — what MacIntyre would call virtue. 
Suppose that the members of our new­ly reflective traditional society — which just is, as I hope is now clear, our society 
—
 finally realize that those who violate what they took to be the divine law do not, in fact, incur punishment. Suppose that some of them — that is, some of us 

—
 come to believe that actions are right or wrong for different reasons entirely — because, say, they promote or inhibit the flourishing of societies and their mem­bers. And suppose that we conclude, after centuries of reflection, that some action — say, abortion — definitively in­hibits the flourishing of our society and its members. 

But suppose also that this conclusion remains, among those who do not share our criterion of flourishing, highly con­troversial. The thing to do then, I argue, is not to send our children off to college so that they can study both sides of the question. This will tempt them, espe­cially when they are very alone and very afraid, to do precisely the wrong thing — it will, that is, eviscerate whatever virtue we may have so far cultivated in them. The thing to do is, rather, to teach them how both sides of the question — found­ed as they are upon two arbitrary rights 

—
 are subjective will masquerading as objective fact. The thing to do is, in other 


words, to warn them that those who argue either side seek only, intentionally or not, to manipulate them. 
For an education in virtue requires a tradition. It requires a thorough famil­iarity with a set of thick concepts that leaves no question as to the right thing to do in those situations that are of the greatest importance — which tend to be, not coincidentally, those situations of the greatest temptation. In these situations, it requires certain options to be unthink­able — for them not to be, that is, options at all. If an education in virtue is to sustain itself within an emotivist society, therefore, it must include a thorough understanding of the ways in which that society will attempt, through manipula­tion, to hijack it. 
But this is not a call to the enforce­ment of naïveté. Even were it possible to keep our students from reflection — and it is not — to do so would be profoundly evil, for it is precisely in reflection that we reveal ourselves to be human. If the virtue into which we educated our students did not survive reflection, we would have failed them as teachers. But we have reasons to conclude that vicious action will make our students wretched 
— and reasons to conclude that this is what matters. We should encourage, rather than discourage, our students to reflect upon these reasons — that is, to justify the virtue that we teach them. For only when virtue survives reflection will it survive temptation. 
It is our social framework — the very social framework that imposes per­petual warfare between the pro-life and pro-choice camps, between one arbi­trary right and another — that does not survive reflection. To teach our students to be virtuous is not enough: We should also teach them the extent to which our society, founded as it is upon manipula­tion, is incompatible with virtue. We should teach them, if it does not prove impossible, to remake that society, to re­solve the contradiction within it — not by taking either side but rather by exposing and uprooting the emotivism from which both sides grow. Only then will reflection be worth the price. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his fourth year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. Listen to his radio show on WVFI on Sundays at 2 p.m. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Eyes wide shut 

In response to “‘Grinding’ my gears” by Mr. Peter Tenerillo (Oct. 4), I’d like to say I agree with you and Dr. Moss that grinding is not a social interaction and is very easy to accom­plish. What really grinds my gears is that you are misleading the young people of this school. I will, although my friends wish I would not, like to shed some personal wisdom upon you. 
You mention that you do not want to skip any of “the best parts.” You declare that they are “those small moments, those quick glances, those subtle touches.” I have been to Hip-Hip Night and, like most students, made-out while never knowing the other person, or even getting a name. I am proud to say that those short-lived moments have been plain old fun. Is that not what college is about? I find nothing wrong with this small moment shared between myself and a young lady counterpart. 
To answer my question, college is meant to be fun, adventurous and provide the opportu­nity to experience new things. I say, let the students, most particularly the freshmen, have their grinding, random make-out at Hip-Hop Night. Keep in mind, almost all of the other stu­dents attending are doing the exact same thing. Let them experience not talking to someone after a night of grinding. Let them experience something strange after a long week of going through the daily motions of class. Let them just blow off some steam. 
Let me thank you, Peter, for your letter and for basically admitting that you are above the “drunken make-out sessions.” It’s hard to imagine someone like you can be single. 
Go Irish, Beat Falcons. 
Matt Pepe 
senior 
off campus 
Oct. 4 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, October 5, 2011 
TROY MATHEW students focus on the squirrels because they’re the free source of entertainment, along with a 

ELISA DECASTRO | Observer Graphic 


Wednesday, October 5, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 


CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 

This weekend SUB is hosting a wide range of activities for students all around campus. Movies, poetry, music and comedy galore! 
Thursday, October 6 - Saturday, October 8 
SUB Movie “Transformers: Dark of the Moon” 10/6: 10 p.m. 10/7: 8 p.m., 10:30 p.m. 10/8: 8 p.m., 10:30 p.m. DeBartolo 101 $3 with student ID 
The classic, affordable Notre Dame date — see Michael Bay’s summer blockbuster and all its glory. Who says DeBartolo Hall is just 
for classes? 



Thursday, October 6 
7 p.m. - Poetry Peotry Brawl with Rachel McKibbens & Mindy Nettifree LaFortune Ballroom Free with ID
   A battle between Rachel McKibbens, 2009 Women of the World poetry slam champion, and Mindy Nettifee, Pushcart Prize nominated writer and accomplished performance poet. 
9:30 p.m. - Music Best of Acousticafe LaFortune Ballroom Free with ID


   The favorite (according to students) Acousticafe performers of the year so far perform, opening for Gentleman Hall. 
11 p.m. - Concert Gentleman Hall LaFortune Ballroom Free with ID 


Gentlemen Hall comes to campus after winning an MTV Music Award for “Best Breakout Boston Artist” in 2009, having a Ben & Jerry’s ice cream flavor named after it, and most recently releasing a six-song ex­tended play, “When We All Disappear.” 
Friday, October 7 

9 p.m. - Comedy Sheng Wang with George Watsky Washington Hall Free with ID Sheng Wang is a Taiwanese Texan who de­veloped and honed his comedy in the thriving standup community of the San Francisco Bay Area. He performs jokes based on personal experiences and ad­dresses common nonsense with honesty and ill logic. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 
ELISA DECASTRO & LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u ClaSSiFiEDS Wednesday, October 5, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 
On the edge of our seats 
Amidst an electric atmo­sphere and with the hopes and dreams of diehard fans living and dying pitch-to­pitch, Game 3 of the Ameri­can League Divisional Series was heading to the ninth and final stanza Monday, with De­troit lead­ing New York 5-4. 
I, a Ti­gers fan, turned to my friend, a Yankees fan, and pointed out that one of us would hate the other in 10-15 minutes, depending on whether or not Jose Valverde would convert the save, something he did 49 times in 49 opportunities during the regular season. 
Though the Tigers closer made it interesting in the top of the ninth, Detroit held on and snatched a 2-1 series ad­vantage against the Yankees and their vaunted lineup. 
While the statement about hating each other based purely on the outcome of a baseball game was a bit of an exag­geration, it 

The shift of emotions sports provide are akin to your significant other asking you to marry him or her, and then dumping you five minutes later, or your employer giving you a pro­motion and then firing you in a matter of moments. 
Granted, the significance of events in an athletic competition are not in the same stratosphere as life-altering moments such as the end of a relationship or losing a job. 
Monday night’s game created a diversion for a city and state suffering from economic struggle, as sporting events tend to do. For three hours, Detroiters could revel in the heroics of Justin Verlander, the struggles of CC Sabathia or the antics of Valverde. For three hours, no one had to worry about his or her job status or think about when the next paycheck would arrive. 
Sports are the unique bond between the upper class, middle class and low­er class. In a country where the divide between the rich and poor consistently grows larger and politics become more and more 
polarizing, 
the argu­
captures the ment can be 
Sports create astounding 
tense envi-made that 
swings of emotions in 
ronment of people have 
such short periods of 
a stressful less in com-
time that are nearly 
postseason mon than 
for fans that impossible to find in any ever be-are fortu-other avenue of life. fore, which 
nate enough to see their teams qualify. 
Sports create astounding swings of emotions in such short periods of time that are nearly impossible to find in any other avenue of life. 
In life, you will inevita­bly face moments of utter despair or jubilation, but the two rarely occur within minutes of each other. 
In Monday night’s game, the Yankees had two run­ners on base in the ninth down one run and confident that Derek Jeter, as he has so many times before, could provide a classic postseason moment for the only fran­chise he has ever played for. 
After Valverde struck Jeter out, those emotions turned from optimistic to dejected very quickly. After all, the game put the Yankees’ sea­son on the brink and forced New York to win Games 4 and 5 (with the much-ma­ligned A.J. Burnett starting Game 4, mind you). 
makes a 
spectacle 
like Monday night’s even more impor­tant. 
When people see each other proudly wearing the Old English ‘D’ that repre­sents a team, a town and a mentality, a connection is immediately fostered. Re­ally, isn’t that an integral part of what makes sports special? 
Looking around at the crowd of over 43,000 people, though personally knowing about a dozen of them, I couldn’t help but feel like I knew all their stories and all their strug­gles. 
And for one night, a city sparkled when it most needed it. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu
   The views expressed in the Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB 


Beltre belts Rangers into ALCS 
Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — The Tampa Bay Rays simply ran out of comebacks. 
Adrian Beltre hit three home runs, Ian Kinsler also went deep and the Texas Rangers knocked the Rays out of the playoffs Tuesday with a 4-3 victory in Game 4 of their American League division se­ries. 
“It’s always painful, espe­cially being around the league for this long,” Tampa Bay des­ignated hitter Johnny Damon said. “You never know when your last opportunity is going to be. We battled very tough. We had a good enough team to win, and keep on winning. It just seemed Texas definitely had our number.” 
Unable to win a home game against Texas again, the Rays were eliminated under their own roof by the Rangers for the second consecutive year. 
Last season, it was Cliff Lee who pitched Texas to a first-round triumph in Game 5 at Tropicana Field. This time, Beltre powered the defending AL champions to a 3-1 victory in the best-of-five matchup. 
“We just have to keep trying to get better for the next op­portunity to meet them in the playoffs and hopefully come out on top next time,” Rays manager Joe Maddon said. “I am very proud of our guys.” 
Tampa Bay, which pulled off a remarkable rally in Septem­ber to win the AL wild card, certainly went down fighting. Sean Rodriguez barreled over Rangers catcher Mike Nap­oli to score an early run and Casey Kotchman’s one-out sin­gle in the ninth got the Rays within 4-3. 
But closer Neftali Feliz re­tired Matt Joyce on a foul pop­up and Desmond Jennings on a grounder to earn his third save of the series. 
The announced crowd at Tropicana Field was 28,299, well below the sellout of 32,828 for Game 3 on Monday. 
Tampa Bay principal owner Stu Sternberg admitted there is frustration because the Rays’ success on the field has not translated into improved attendance. 
“We replicated last year and our numbers were down,” Sternberg said. “The (televi­sion) ratings were down. The rubber has got to hit the road at some point. We’re four years into winning. We’re getting to the point where we don’t con­trol our own destiny. This is untenable as a model.” 
Local civic leaders are cur­rently exploring options for a new stadium, but the effort is in the preliminary phases. 

Kinsler hit a leadoff homer against rookie Jeremy Hellick­son in the first inning and Bel­tre did the same in the second for a 2-0 lead. 
Beltre hit another shot off Hellickson in the fourth and then put the Rangers ahead 4-2 with a seventh-inning drive against rookie Matt Moore. 
The three homers allowed by Hellickson were the most he has given up in a game. The right-hander was pulled after four innings and replaced by Moore with Tampa Bay trailing 3-2. 
Moore beat the Rangers in Game 1, allowing two hits and two walks while striking out six over seven shutout innings. The only hit he gave up in three innings Tuesday was Beltre’s third homer of the game. 
“We made it pretty interest­ing there,” Moore said. “Ever since I’ve been here, we al­ways kind of had our backs up against the wall. It’s weird. I wouldn’t say we were comfort­able, but we knew we had some work cut out. We made it pretty close.” 
Hellickson yielded three runs and four hits. 
Texas, which hit 210 homers during the regular season, had gone deep just twice through the first three games of the se­ries. 
The defeat was a bitter end for Tampa Bay, which earned its improbable playoff spot with the greatest September come­back in baseball history. 
The Rays made up a nine-game deficit on Boston in the wild-card standings after Sept. 3 and claimed their third post­season berth in four years by climbing out of a seven-run hole in the eighth inning to beat the New York Yankees in the regular-season finale. 
Evan Longoria’s dramatic homer in the 12th inning last Wednesday sent Tampa Bay into the playoffs despite a $42 million opening-day payroll, the second-lowest in the ma­jors. 
The Rays rolled to a 9-0 rout in Game 1 at Texas, too. But all the excitement came to a sudden conclusion against the Rangers, who won all five games at Tropicana Field dur­ing two playoff series between these teams the past two years. In fact, the road team won eight of the nine games in those first-round matchups. 
“It’s sour the way it ended,” Longoria said. 
Joyce cut the Rays’ deficit to 2-1 on a two-out RBI double in the second. Rodriguez, who had walked, scored all the way from first by crashing hard into Na­poli on a clean collision at the plate, knocking the ball loose. 
Texas went up 3-1 on Beltre’s fourth-inning homer. He en­tered with one hit in 11 playoff at-bats this year. 
Rodriguez doubled with two outs and scored on Kotchman’s single in the fourth, making it 3-2. 
Rangers starter Matt Harri­son gave up two runs and five hits over five innings to earn the win. He struck out nine and walked two. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

The Office Quotes: “Dwight is an obvious candidate “Michael is giving Pam his old “Dwight gave a great speech. 
WANTED PERSONAL 

for my job. He has the best sales chair, and Pam promised her old That’s the word on the street, “I have got to make sure YouTube record in the office. He loves the chair to me. One more to go.” - anyway. And I entertained Dwight comes down to film this.” - Michael work. He is, however, an idiot.” - Creed Bratton to no end with my bar stories—so I Scott Michael Scott captivated the guy who captivated FARM HELP WANTED UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t a thousand guys. Can you believe Hardworking, mature individual to go it alone. Notre Dame has many “If the Devil were to explode, and “When I asked, “What if you die, “I enjoyed this conversation. It that? A thousand guys.” -Michael handle various chores. Anything resources in place to assist you. 
evil were gone forever, what sort of Dwight? How will we get into the was very nice. It was like talking Scott from cleaning stalls, painting, and If you or someone you love needs 
party would you have?” - Michael office?” He said, “If I’m dead, you to the sweet old lady on the bus.”- 
shoveling, etc. $8 an hour cash. confidential support or assistance, 

Scott guys have been dead for weeks.” - Michael Scott “I take spinning classes three Flexible schedule. Must have own please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 Pam Beesley times a month. I think I know how transportation to New Carlisle. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more “Hazing is a fun way to show a new to ride a bike.” - Michael Scott Horse experience a plus. information, visit ND’s website at: employee that she is not welcome Please call Jeanine day: 574-631­or liked.” - Dwight Schrute Go Irish. Beat Falcons. Go Irish. Beat Falcons. Go Irish. Beat Falcons. 
9812 or cell: 574-323-1121 evening http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

Wednesday, October 5, 2011 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
Club 
continued from page 12 
in the Pere Marquette Regatta at Marquette. Three Irish boats finished eighth, 13th and 15th in a fleet of 16 racers. Wisconsin and Minnesota placed first and second in the race. 
Jeff Miller, Pat Power and Pe­ter Roemholdt skippered ND A, with Becky Jegier, Sarah Eide, Pat Gallagher, Maria Skorcz and Claire Donovan in crew. 
Tony Michuda, Blaize Hab­rick and Annie Schoenwetter skippered ND B, with Lauren George, Katie Suarez, Wyn Sul­livan, Johathan Tran and Matt Rossetto in crew. 
Women’s Rugby 
Notre Dame traveled to Ann Arbor, Mich. this past Sunday to play in its first league game against University of Michi­gan. The Irish expected this game to be their most difficult of the scheduled season, but they demonstrated their abil­ity to play in the same league as teams like University of Michi­gan and finished with a close 24-20 loss. 
The Irish kicked off to the Wolverines to begin the first half, but a penalty against the Irish pushed them back to close to their own try line. Although the Irish regained possession of the ball, the Wolverine defense rushed the players, blocked a kick and jumped on the ball in the try zone for their first try. After the kickoff to the Wolver­ines, the Irish scored their first points of the game off a penalty kick taken by sophomore kicker Amelia Vojt. 
The Wolverines responded to the Irish points by again power­ing the ball into Irish territory. They played through phases with enough speed and inten­sity to push the Irish defense back until they could finally worm through the defensive line for another try and con­version, bringing the score to 3-14. Neither team scored a try again in the first half of the game. However, the Irish were able to move into a po­sition to kick for points again, and gained three more points from Vojt. The Wolverines pushed back into Irish terri­tory, but the Irish defense bat­tled hard, keeping them from scoring a try. In the last play of the first half, the Wolver­ines kicked for points, bring­ing the halftime score to 6-17. 
The Irish entered the second half with renewed enthusiasm and determination. Although the Wolverines continued to challenge the Irish in their own territory, the Irish for­wards demonstrated their heart and tenacity by holding off the Wolverines’ repeated mauls for 25 minutes at their own tryline before graduate student Kayla Bishop was fi­nally able to kick the ball out of danger. 
The Irish managed to score a try at last later in the sec­ond half by passing the ball out wide to freshman Natalie Branch off of a scrum near midfield. Unfortunately, the Wolverines kicked the ball over the defensive line, caught the ball as it bounced away from the fullback, and brought the ball in for a try. With five minutes left in the game, the Irish concentrated on moving the ball quickly into the hands of backs, and passing the ball out wide to Natalie Branch again proved successful. A try by Branch wrapped up the game and brought the final score to 24-20. 
The Irish hope to work on rucking, especially avoiding penalties by not coming in from the side, and setting a solid defensive line, especial­ly around rucks, before their next game, Sunday at home against Indiana University. 
MLB 

Francisco’s homer leads Phils 

Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS — Albert Pujols did his part and the Cardinals had plenty of chances. 
They just never came up with that big hit. 
St. Louis stranded 14 run­ners and squandered a bases-loaded threat in the eighth inning with Pujols on deck during a 3-2 loss to the Phila­delphia Phillies in Game 3 of their National League playoff Tuesday. 
It was a huge missed oppor­tunity for the Cardinals, who also wasted a strong show­ing by starter Jaime Garcia. He had the Phillies shut out on four hits until pinch-hitter Ben Francisco’s three-run homer with two outs in the seventh provided all the of­fense for Philadelphia. 
“It was a heartbreaker,” Pu­jols said. “Jaime was cruising pretty much the whole game. Just one ball up, a good swing and there you go, out of the park.” 
Trailing 2-1 in the best-of­five matchup, the Cardinals must win Wednesday to send the series back to Philadel­phia for a decisive fifth game. Edwin Jackson, acquired at the trade deadline, starts for St. Louis against Roy Oswalt. 
Cole Hamels pitched six shutout innings for the win, striking out eight, but the Car­dinals put runners on base in each of those innings with five hits, three walks and a hit batter. After Hamels left, St. Louis got a run in the seventh on David Freese’s two-out sin­gle off Vance Worley, but left the potential tying runs on base when Yadier Molina flied out softly to right. 

St. Louis loaded the bases in the eighth. Ryan Theriot, who was 4 for 5, led off with a single. An out later, Matt Holli-day — limited to pinch-hitting duty because of a finger injury 
— singled off Brad Lidge, and Rafael Furcal followed with a single. 
But closer Ryan Madson came in and Allen Craig’s smash to second was turned into a dou­ble play. 
It was no huge surprise: St. Louis hit into a National League-record 169 double plays during the regular season. 
“That’s the first time I’ve used Madson for four outs or five outs,” Phillies manager Charlie Manuel said. “I figured the game was right there on the line and we had to stop them.” 
St. Louis cut the margin to 3-2 in the ninth on Pujols’ third double of the game — he also went 4 for 5 — and a two-out single by Molina. But Theriot bounced to second to end the game with the potential tying run at first. 
The Phillies got a leadoff sin­gle from Shane Victorino in the seventh and he moved up on a passed ball. Garcia got two outs before Cardinals manager Tony La Russa opted to intentionally walk No. 8 batter Carlos Ruiz to bring up Hamels’ spot. 
Manuel countered with Fran­cisco, who was 1 for 18 in his previous postseason at-bats and 1 for 9 lifetime against Garcia. 

Chaos 
continued from page 13 
the third quarter that was returned for a touchdown. The Pangborn defense could not contain senior quarterback Rebecca Cink, who passed for 130 yards and two touch­downs. 
“Our offense did what it needed to, and the defense had some critical stops,” Cink said. “[Pangborn was] the best team we have faced yet.” 
The Cavanaugh defense also held firm in the face of a threat by Pangborn, forcing a turnover-on-downs deep in its own territory late in the fourth quarter.  The Chaos wreaked havoc in the Pangborn back­field, registering two sacks and constant pressure of the offensive line. 
“We always come in with confidence, but we also know we have to work really hard,” Cink said. 
Pangborn (1-3) put forth a 
Ruiz “just terrorizes us,” La Russa said. “And he’d already hit two balls hard. I made the decision. Francisco has had a tough time with Jaime. It really wasn’t a tough call.” 
Garcia threw only 74 pitches through six innings, but needed 26 more in the seventh. 
Hamels seemed to labor at times, throwing 117 pitches and working in and out of trouble. He struck out Freese with two on to end the first and got Gar­cia on a groundout with two on to end the fourth. Hamels also fanned Garcia with two on to end the sixth. 
The late-afternoon start cre­ated a mix of blinding sunshine and dark shadows that gave both pitchers an early advan­tage. Hitters seemed to struggle at times to pick up the spin of pitches. About a month ago, after an afternoon home loss to the Brewers, several Cardi­nals players complained about the shadows and urged against scheduling late-afternoon games. 
Fielders had a hard time dealing with the visibility, too. Philadelphia had two third-in­ning hits on balls that seemed to be affected by visibility — a single by Ruiz that bounced over the head of Freese after the third baseman took a step in, and a soft liner by Jimmy Rollins that center fielder John Jay lost in the sun. But Chase Utley grounded out to end the threat. 
good effort on both sides of the ball. The defense earned sacks on two consecutive plays in the first quarter and came away with an interception in the fourth quarter. The offense rallied late behind a compe­tent rushing game, but a single rushing touchdown by junior quarterback Meredith Angell was not enough to beat Cava­naugh. 
“Our defense was great, and it has been all season,” senior captain Liz Pawlak said.  “We had that interception as well, so there are definitely positives to take from this game.” 
Penalties killed the Phoxes, including two pass interfer­ence calls and a flag-guarding call. 
“Our offense just needs to step it up a notch,” Pawlak said. 
Cavanaugh hopes to pre­serve its perfect record against Farley this Sunday, while Pan­gborn looks for its second win of the season against Howard. 
Contact James Southard at      jsouthar@nd.edu 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Wednesday, October 5, 2011 
CLUB SPORTS 

Men’s Water Polo notches vital 12-6 win over rival 
Men’s and Women’s Ultimate Frisbee host Whitesmoke; Sailing claims first overall despite high winds 
Special to the Observer Michigan, and the second over ing first and third in the class as cesses, the team finished the his last race at the University of 
Indiana-X in the game for a well. Freshman De’Lana North-weekend in fourth place overall. Michigan. 
Notre Dame swept the field at fifth-place finish. Freshman Ja-bird had an outstanding ride in UW-Madison took  first, UW-La The second day of racing at the conference qualifiers host-son Wassel impressed for ND-X her first horse show ever and Cross second, and Iowa State Purdue consisted of a short­ed in Rolfs Aquatics this past in his first college tournament walked away with a third place third. track race held on a short weekend. The Irish opened with with great throws all weekend. ribbon in the walk-trot class. 800-meter track with several a 16-6 victory over Dayton, with The squad will get back to Experienced senior rider Cycling sharp climbs and off-camber junior Chris Jennis leading the training before returning to ac-Catherine Mikkelsen was also turns that tested riders’ tech-team in scoring.  This was fol-tion Nov. 5-6 at Northcoast in able to place third and fourth in The cycling club entered two nical ability and nerve. Ansel lowed by the team’s biggest win Cleveland, Ohio. her flat and jumping classes. events this weekend at Purdue. was the only Notre Dame rep-in several years, a 12-6 victory UW-Madison placed first, The first race of the weekend resentative at the race and was over Grand Valley State. Women’s Ultimate Frisbee UW-La Cross placed second, was a cross-country race, on the leading the Men’s B race at the 
Although the squad garnered and Notre Dame-Saint Mary’s extremely tight and twisty trails halfway point when he pushed a win over national power Flor-The women’s squad also walked away at third overall on in McCormack Woods adjacent too hard in a turn and crashed, ida two weeks ago, the 12-6 hosted its annual Whitesmoke Saturday. to the Purdue campus. The first losing 10-15 seconds and sever-triumph over 20th ranked and Tournament this past weekend. The ladies were back on their race to start was the Men’s C, al positions. He was able to pull defending conference champion In its second year as a fall tour-horses Sunday. Genereux start-in which junior Carl Josephson himself back up to third posi-Grand Valley State was particu-nament Whitesmoke made a ed off the day with an amaz-and Jose Lugo competed for tion at the finish, lapping sev­larly crucial, as it ended a long big step by changing locations ing ride, taking a respectable the Irish. Overcoming a slow eral riders in the process. string of losses to the Lakers in to the beautifully manicured second in open fences. Junior start that put him into the sin-a heated rivalry. Jennis starred Junior Irish soccer facility in Maureen McQuillian took sec-gle track in the woods near the Sailing early, scoring five first half South Bend, two-time host of ond and Nearhos fourth in their back of the pack, Lugo picked goals. Senior captain Dan Geis-USAU Club Central Regionals. intermediate fences class. off riders in the technically de-This weekend, Notre Dame man and sophomore Jack Turek The teams enjoyed perfect Open flat was a very success-manding serpentine sections of attended the Cary Price Inter-assisted junior Tate Kernell in weather, great early-season ful class for the Irish on Sun-the trails to net a fifth place on sectional at Grosse Pointe Yacht goal to keep the Laker offense playing time, and a friendly day. Genereux and Walsh both the day. Josephson, starting in Club in Michigan. Nine schools in check throughout the game. but competitive atmosphere. earned first in their groups, just his second race of his ca-attended the regatta, includ-Late goals by freshman Dolff The women split into two equal Sylva took third, with Amy Giro-reer, rode to a solid 11th place ing Michigan, Northwestern, Hanke iced the game, while squads to conquer the playing dano following close behind in ahead of several more experi-Queens, Hope, Ohio State, Mi-freshman Marc Gazda and fields. One of the teams finished fourth. McQuillian and Nearhos enced riders from the Midwest ami of Ohio, Cornell, Purdue sophomore Pat Raycroft were 4-3 on the weekend, with excel-both won their intermediate flat Conference. and Notre Dame. The weekend also key Irish players. lent defense from sophomore class and Scheid took third, of-Graduate student Douglas got off to a slow start as high 
The Irish maintained their fo-Kim Kowalski as well as cutting ficially qualifying for regionals Ansel and sophomore Luke Til-winds prevented any racing cus Sunday morning, defeating and handling from sophomores in the flat. mans competed in the Men’s B from taking place on Saturday. Ohio University 11-6. The game Kelsey Fink and Molly Carmo-Freshman Carrie Kuhen took race later in the morning. An-However, on Sunday the winds featured several stellar saves by na, all under the leadership of fifth in her novice flat class and sel picked up speed as the race quieted slightly and 10 races Kernell, with Jennis and Hanke junior Courtney Iverson. senior Christine Martin fol-went on and was in position to were sailed. Notre Dame placed again leading the scoring pa-The second squad went 1-6 on lowed behind, taking sixth in pass into third position only third in the A Division, first in rade. This set up a finals bout the weekend. However, the team the class. Bullis won the Walk-one-third of the way into the 16-the B Division and first overall. with Illinois Chicago, another showed marked improvement Trot-Canter class and freshman mile race. However, he suffered Seniors Nathaniel Walden and Midwest power and last year’s throughout the weekend. Led by Jackie Voltz along with Nooman a flat tire and crash in quick Beth Werley sailed A’s for Notre conference runner-up. senior captain Ashley Saterlee both took fourth in their re-succession that prompted him Dame, while seniors Mike Fla-
Once again the Irish proved the team came out strong Sat-spective classes. Genereux was to withdraw from the race with nigan and Natalie Fang sailed victorious in a grueling 9-7 urday with fine play by seniors the high point rider for the day an injured knee. Tilmans be-B’s. championship win. Kernell’s Kelly Nickodem and Stefanie and McQuillian was the reserve gan to pass riders in the latter A second team of sailors raced goaltending proved to be the Zipf and junior Andrea Palazzo-high point rider. portion of the race and finished difference in the contest. lo.  After a weekend of Ultimate, Despite all the individual suc-fourth, several slots better than see CLUB/page 11 
the squad will get back to prac­Men’s Ultimate Frisbee tice this week in preparation for 
their next tournament in Cleve-
Notre Dame hosted the 16th land from Nov. 5-6. edition of its home tournament, Whitesmoke, this past weekend Equestrian at the Junior Irish Soccer Com­plex. The Irish split their roster This past weekend the Notre into two squads for the tourna-Dame and Saint Mary’s Eques­ment. Notre Dame-X was led by trian team ventured up to the seniors Adam Barsella, Thom-University of Wisconsin-Mad­as Kenealy and James Denue, ison for its first horse show of while Notre Dame-Y was led by the year. It was an overall suc­seniors Michael DellaPenna and cessful weekend for the ladies William Cernanec. with three riders qualifying for 
The X squad took fifth out the regional tournament in the of 16 teams with a 5-1 record, spring. while the Y team finished 11th, Saturday started with sopho­going 3-4. ND-X won its pool more Katie Walsh having an Saturday with wins over North-outstanding ride and taking western, Western Michigan and first in open fences and fresh-Aquinas to clinch a bye into the man Katie Sylva taking third in quarterfinals. Meanwhile, ND-Y her first collegiate competition. finished 1-2 in pool play with an A new rider to the team, junior easy win over Michigan State B, Maureen McQuillian took a sol-followed by defeat at the hands id third in intermediate fences. of North Park, and a close 8-7 Seniors Victoria Scheid and loss to Kalamazoo. Sarah Lusher also had success-
The Y-squad then dropped ful rides, qualifying for region-its pre-quarterfinal against als in novice fences and taking Indiana-Y to fall into the ninth third in each of their respective place bracket. Impressive per-groups. formances from both teams Walsh was able to take sec-came from junior handlers Dan ond in open flat the first day, Bolivar and Greg Goodman, as with junior Mia Genereux and well as freshmen David Terry, Sylva following behind with Keith Podgorski and Kyle Hill. fourth and fifth in the class re­ND-Y began Sunday play with a spectively. Scheid had another win over Aquinas, before losing successful day, taking first in to Purdue and beating North-intermediate fences, putting western for 11th place. ND-X her on the path to qualify for re-lost a 15-14 heartbreaker to gionals on Sunday. Sophomore Indiana-Y in the quarterfinals Stephanie Nearhos had a great after a comeback attempt fell ride, claiming third in the inter-just short. The game featured mediate flat class Saturday. handlers Denue and junior Eric Walk-Trot-Canter was a high-Bens frequently hucking to Bar-scoring class for the Irish, with sella and Kenealy in the end-junior Caitlin Harris taking zone.  ND-X came back to win third and qualifying for re-its next two games though, the gionals and freshmen Shannon first a rematch against Western Nooman and Rebecca Bullis tak­


Wednesday, October 5, 2011 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Punt return TD pushes Ryan to 27-6 win over P.E. 
Lyons edges closer to the playoffs with win over Lewis; Farley defeats Badin 19-6 to remain undefeated 
By ISAAC LORTON 93 yards and energizing her quarterbacks running in as a 
Sports Writer team at the start of the second receiver,” Mannion said. “It’s half with an 80-yard punt re-hard to have someone play out Ryan fought the fire of Pas-turn after the Pyros’ first se-of position.” 
querilla East with an explosive ries. Freshman quarterback Macy 
option attack, defeating Pas-“It pumped up the team a lot Mulhall was moved out to re­
querilla East 27-6. and got everyone going,” Curtis ceiver, while sophomore quar-Ryan junior quarterback said. terback Emma Haduch got the 
Maya Pillai was a power-Only down seven at halftime, starting nod. Haduch went 
house in the game, throwing the punt return seemed to de-4-for-9 for 55 yards and ran in 
two touchdowns and finishing flate the Pyros (0-4-1), who the lone touchdown for the Py­
6-for-12 passing for 109 yards. then could not get their offense ros in the first half. In the sec-
Pillai also had four rushes for into a groove. ond half, she went 5-for-13 with 
14 yards and one touchdown for “That was a tough score to one interception. 
the Wildcats (4-0). give up and we didn’t have The Pyros look for a win “My success tonight came an answer after that,” senior against McGlinn on Sunday, 
from my receivers, line and play receiver and captain Kristin while the Wildcats look to keep 
calling,” Pillai said. “We have Mannion said. their undefeated regular sea-
so many options on offense that Pasquerilla East suffered son in tact against Lewis. 
if one thing is shut down, we from sickness this week, caus­
can just go to the other.” ing major changes, especially Contact isaac lorton at Senior running back and cap-to its two-quarterback system. ilorton@nd.edu 
tain Brianna Curtis also had a “We were short on numbers 

spectacular game, running for this week, so we had one of our weekend keep their playoff Senior quarterback Megan Lyons 25, Lewis 6 hopes alive. Bastedo led the Farley (4-0) of­“We’ve got a good vibe going fense to its highest point total By ERNST CLEOFE and we’re playing with a lot of this season, throwing for 131 Sports Writer heart,” Bramanti said. “We feel yards and a touchdown while really good about the attitude running for another score. After both teams earned vic-we have going into each game.” “Our offense finally got click­tories Sunday, Lyons beat Lewis Lewis struggled with inju-ing today. We were able to see 25-6 in a pivotal match Monday, ries after back-to-back games what their defense was throw-improving the team’s playoff this weekend, but the Chicks ing at us and got some good hopes. still have an outside shot at the matchups,” Bastedo said.  “We Lyons (3-2) got the win by playoffs. were able to take advantage capitalizing on the play of se-“It was a little frustrating and give our defense some rest nior quarterback Kat Rodri-tonight with injuries from last after they’ve carried us the past guez. After trading intercep-night,” Lewis senior captain few games.” tions, the Lyonites received the Libby Redline said. “Next week, Though Farley ended up on ball inside the 20-yard line late we have to be better at adjust-top, the Finest found them-in the first half. From 13 yards ing to what we see out on the selves in a hole when Badin out, Rodriguez scrambled out field,” (1-3) scored early on a 43-yard of the pocket for her first touch-Lewis looks to increase its touchdown pass from senior down of the game, putting Ly-playoff chances with a victory quarterback Carli Fernandez ons up 7-0. over Ryan on Sunday, while to freshman receiver Melissa On the second half’s opening Lyons has a bye before playing Whelan. drive, Rodriguez passed for an-Welsh Family on Oct. 30. The Finest were able to come other touchdown, giving Lyons back strong, with Bastedo lead-a 13-0 lead. After a Lewis (2-2) Contact Ernst Cleofe at ing the offense on consecutive touchdown, Rodriguez sealed ecleofe@nd.edu drives to score twice before the Lyonites’ win with a long the half ended. The first drive touchdown pass to freshman was capped with a 15-yard captain and receiver Christina Farley 19, Badin 6 touchdown pass from Bastedo Bramanti after a well-covered to senior receiver Kaitlyn Vi-play downfield broke down. By NICK BOYLE tale, with the second ending The key to the Lyons offense Sports Writer on Bastedo’s 1-yard touchdown was keeping plays alive despite run with less than 30 seconds good coverage downfield. Farley’s offense looked lively left in the half. “When plays didn’t work, we and the defense held steady, as Farley completed the game’s just kept looking for options,” the Finest prevailed in a 19-6 scoring with six minutes left Bramanti said. win over Badin on Tuesday in the second half when sopho-The Lyonites’ two wins this night. more receiver Lauren Ladowski scored on an option run from two yards out. While discouraged by the loss, Fernandez still was able to remain positive after the game. “I think we keep improving game by game,” Fernandez said. “Were having a lot of fun, and it’s nice to be able to get a lot of the young girls out here playing.” Badin looks to bounce back against Breen-Phillips on Oct. 30, while Farley looks to carry its momentum into a clash with undefeated Cavanaugh on Sun­day. 

Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 
Cavanaugh 20, Pangborn 9 


By JAMES SOUTHARD 
Sports Writer 
Cavanaugh refused to suffer its first loss against Pangborn on Tuesday night, riding a pro­lific passing attack and an op­portunistic defense to a 20-9 victory. 
Cavanaugh (4-0) scored on 
plays of 20 and 62 yards, and 
even forced an interception in 
see CHAOS/page 11 



page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Wednesday, October 5, 2011 
Scuba 
continued from page 16 
to help preserve their environ­ment,” Kanabrocki said. 
She hopes she can eventu­ally incorporate diving into her preservation work. 
“I applied for a grant last summer to go to Mozambique and do whale shark conserva­tion, so I would love to go diving there and see the whale sharks,” Kanabrocki said. “They’re gi­normous, but they’re completely safe, and it must be amazing to be next to something that big, so I think that’d be really cool. I re-
Mathews 
continued from page 16 
This victory advanced Mathews to the round of 32, where she faced the No. 68 Stojic in the second match of the day. Stojic had moved on to the second round after de­feating No. 57 Annie Gorans­son of Cal-Berkeley in three sets. Stojic won the third set in a tiebreaker. 
Mathews kept the first set close and forced a tiebreaker, but fell 7-3. She fought back and took the second set by a tally of six games to three, but in the third and final set Sto­jic won her third tiebreaker of the day by a score of 7-2. 
Although Mathews is elimi­nated from the singles compe­tition, she will not head home yet. She and fellow senior Kristy Frilling will compete in the doubles main draw in the All-American Championships this weekend. 
“Kristy and I have been working hard these past few weeks in preparation for this ally wish I would’ve gotten the grant, but maybe this year.”  
Even so, Kanabrocki hopes to dive at some famous sites just for the experience, even if it means taking a day off from saving the world. 
“Hawaii is the only place I’ve ever gotten to go [diving], because I just got certified a couple of years ago, but it was beautiful,” she said. “I would also like to go scuba diving in the Red Sea in the Middle East because it’s supposed to be some of the best diving, and then the Great Barrier Reef would be awesome, of course.” 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at           vjacobse@nd.edu 
tournament, and we feel great about our games as well as our chances this year,” Mathews said Monday. 
Frilling, who is ranked 3rd by the ITA, has already qualified for the main draw of the singles competition and will begin play Thurs­day. 
Although Mathews did not reach the main draw of the singles competition, she can still reap the benefits of playing against top-level competition. 
“This is a tournament that helps our players’ individual rankings, which can help them get into the NCAA in­dividual championships,” Louderback said. “It gives our top two players a chance to compete against the top players in the country.” 
The Irish pairing will re­turn to the courts for the All-American Champion­ships, which begin Thursday at the Riviera Tennis Club in Pacific Palisades, Calif. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at         vjacobse@nd.edu 
Option 
continued from page 16 
[from Air Force] in terms of what you’ll have to defend,” Kelly said. “[Senior quarter­back Tim] Jefferson is obvi­ously a guy that can throw the ball very well. So the receiving corps, it’s not off of play action or crack-and-go. It’s a compre­hensive passing game. This in­corporates a lot of principles. [It’s] quite different in that re­spect.” 
Kelly coached Notre Dame against Navy and Army last year, which both ran versions of the option offense. He said that experience would help in preparing for Air Force, but that his defense must not get caught up in the tactical aspect of the game. 
“Being more familiar with it as a staff and being more fa­miliar with it as how the game unfolds are all experiences you can take with you,” Kelly said. “I think you’ve got to be careful because sometimes [defending the] option, you get this sense of ‘hey, it’s option.’ But we have to do what we do.” 
Senior defensive end Ethan Johnson suffered a lower-leg injury in last Saturday’s win at Purdue, and while Johnson will be wearing an immobilizing boot until Thursday, Kelly was hopeful Johnson would be able to play Saturday. 
“We’re hopeful. But you really don’t know,” Kelly said. “You’re hoping for great results. We’ve been very aggressive in the treatment, but we’ll have to really see on Thursday … we hope he’ll be able to answer the bell.” 
As his team prepares to play its first home game in three weeks, Kelly was pleased by the energy his team continues to display. 
“We were coming off four really tough football games. For us to go and play with that kind of energy [last week] says a lot about our team,” Kelly said. “We’re back at home. We’re excited about that. But again, we’re going to have to play very well to beat Air Force.” 
Contact allan Joseph at                ajoseph2@nd.edu 


Belles 
continued from page 16 
or shot offensively.” 
However, a mere three minutes into the second half, Tondo-Steele worked her way open in the top of the goal box and fired a left foot shot into the top right corner of the goal to give the Belles a 1-0 lead. 
“Katelyn has scored some big goals for us this year, and today her goal was spectacular,” Joyce said. “She managed to find that big play that we were missing up to that point.” 
The goal was Tondo-Steele’s fourth on the season, giving her the team lead in goals scored. 
Less than nine minutes later, in the 58th minute of the match, the Belles were awarded one of their five corner kicks in the contest. Junior midfielder Maddie Meckes sent the kick toward Morfin in the goal box. Morfin’s shot then de­flected off one of the many Trine defenders surrounding the goal and went into the back of the net for a 2-0 lead. 
“[In the second half], we just kept working hard and pushing for the goal,” Joyce said. “We al­ways felt like it was just a matter of time [before we took the lead].” 
From that point on, the Thun­der played more aggressively to try to make up the two-goal deficit. This approach paid off in the 79th minute when Thunder freshman Trisha King received a pass from sophomore Kristin El­liot and drilled the ball into the top left corner of the net to cut the Belles’ lead to one. 
However, the Thunder would get no closer as freshman goal­keeper Chanler Rosenbaum, sub­stituted into the game in the sec­ond half for Warner, registered two saves to preserve the lead. Trine was also unable to turn any of its five second half corner kicks into goals. 
Though the Belles were facing one the MIAA’s better goalkeep­ers in Thunder senior Jen Wall, they were still able to score two goals. In a recent scoreless tie with MIAA-leading Alma College, Wall recorded 11 saves. 
Saint Mary’s will play the sec­ond of three road games in five days Thursday at 7 p.m. against MIAA foe Hope College in Hol­land, Mich. 
Contact Matt Unger at            munger3@nd.edu 

Clark 
continued from page 16 
is to win when you are good. The second easiest thing is to lose when you are bad. The hardest thing for a team to handle is to lose when you are good.’” 
That takes a lot of character, but I think we’ve got good charac­ter and good belief in ourselves, and that’s always a good test for a team.” 
The Irish will be tested against the Wildcats, a team that has al­ready posted five shutouts this season. 
“As long as we get on the board and score one more than them, that’s always the most impor­tant thing,” Clark said. “They’re a good, strong defensive team at times, but we should find out what DePaul did to them. DePaul, I saw, was one of the few teams that scored a lot of goals against them.” 
The Wildcats surrendered four goals in their loss to DePaul on Sept. 28, but have only sur­rendered six goals total in their other nine games. Knapp said increased pressure on the Wild­cats will be a key determinant of Notre Dame’s success. 
“Our team really focuses on pressuring the ball and working hard for each other, and that is something we felt we didn’t do as well as we should have against St. John’s,” Knapp said. “So we believe that a key to our victory tomorrow would be to pressure really high up the field and just work hard for each other off the ball.” 
The trip to South Bend repre­sents Northwestern’s first game outside of the state of Illinois this season, but the Irish don’t expect the game’s site to be an overrid­ing factor in the outcome of the contest. 
“The field will be roughly the same size as all the other fields [Northwestern has] played on,” Clark said. “I think the advantage will be in the way we play. I think we have not got to look for any advantages whether it’s a home game or an away game.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at       jmonardo@nd.edu 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  
22  23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  31  32  
33  34  35  
36  37  38  39  40  
41  42  43  44  45  
46  47  48  
49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  60  
61  62  63  
64  65  66  

Wednesday, October 5, 2011 The Observer u toDay ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD 
Across 34 1922 Physics 1 Reindeer herder 
Nobelist 
5 Sprites, for 35 It has feathers instance and flies 10 With 64-Across, 36 Egg: Prefix 1963 Beach 
37 Smitten oneBoys hit 40 Thrilla in Manila 14 Lysol target outcome15 Fairy tale figure 41 Wrestling 16 Do some victories
computerprogramming 43 Prefix with -polis 
17 1965 Beach 44 Tend, as plantsBoys hit 
46 “Cómo ___?” 20 “That doesn't 
47 Vote against 
bother me anymore” 48 Dance accompanied by 
21 Gumshoe castanets22 Gulf of ___ 49 See 23-Across 
23 With 49-Across, 1965 Beach 
51 Victim in Boys hit Camus's “The Stranger,” e.g. 
27 ___ Retreat (1970s-'80s New 52 Minor player, so York City club) to speak 
30 Trouble 53 Rich fabrics 32 Mideast carrier 
57 1963 Beach 33 Fall guy? Boys hit 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

61 “___ Ben Adhem” (Englishpoem) 
62 African capital 
63 “It must've been something ___” 
64 See 10-Across 
65 “Let It Snow! Let It Snow! Let It Snow!” composer 
66 Lotion ingredient 
Down 
1 Sets of points,mathematically 2 Man without parents 
3 Kind of shirt named for a sport 
4 One followinggeneraldirections? 
5 Packs away 
6 Sen. Hatch 
7 With 30- and 53­Down, 1964 Beach Boys hit 8 Thrilla in Manila winner 9 Lays on thick 10 Like some eaves in winter 11 Oslo's home: Abbr. 
12 Year of Ronsard's “Odes” 
13 Vote for 
18 Sinatra topper 
19 “You sure got
me” 
24 Nebraska river 
25 Surveyor's
stake, typically 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

WILL SHORTz 
Puzzle by Peter A. Collins 
26 Corrida 38 Ball club V.I.P.'s 53 See 7-Down combatant 

39 Like some plays 54 Zest alternative 27 Polite 42 Refuge 
55 Outer: Prefix 28 Rich 45 Neighbor of 
56 ___-Ball 
Montenegro

29 Like 48 One of three 57 Choreographer 
30 See 7-Down 
literary sisters Lubovitch 31 Home of the 

50 Capital of the 58 Native Nigerian Rock and Roll 
U.S.: Abbr. Hall of Fame 
59 Overly 

51 Suffix with 34 ___ Raton, Fla. parliament 60 Didn't get used 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


THE LONDON EXPRESS ALEx GRISWOLD and LEE HAGGENJOS 


JUMBLE 
DAVID L. HOyT AND JEFF KNUREK 

Unscramble these four Jumbles,one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 

OLIOG  

©2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
RLCKE DYOFLN  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 
EMHBUL  

The disagreement about the computer monitors 
Print your answer  here:  A  
(Answers tomorrow)  
Yesterday’s  Jumbles: Answer:  SOUPY  ROUND  TANGLE  ISLAND  

was nowhere near this — RESOLUTION 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic ye ar 
 Enclosed is $75 for one semester  

Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Wednesday, October 5, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
FOOTBALL 
Option stoppers 


By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
After shutting down Purdue’s offense last week, Irish coach Brian Kelly said this weekend’s matchup with Air Force would provide a stiff test for his de­fense. 
“[Air Force is] one of the top rushing teams in the coun­try, but at the same time … their pass efficiency is off the charts,” Kelly said. “The bal­ance there that they have of­fensively creates headaches for everybody in the country.” 
Air Force depends largely on the option offense, much as familiar foe Navy does. While defending the option requires tactical discipline, Kelly said his defense would focus on its own play to have success. 
“Certainly we have to be aware of the option and the re­sponsibilities,” Kelly said. “It’s an extremely multifaceted of­fense. But we’ve got to be who we are, and that is being physi­cal on both sides of the ball.” 
While it seems instinctive to immediately compare the Falcons’ attack to that of the Midshipmen, Kelly warned against that, adding that Air Force’s schemes are far more varied than Navy’s. 
“There’s many more pieces in the Air Force offense … you’re not going to get any of that from Navy, whereas you’re going to get a balance 

see OPTION/page 14 
ROWING 
Kanabrocki enjoys life on and in water 


By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
As a member of the row­ing squad, it’s natural for ju­nior Alyce Kanabrocki to feel comfortable on the water. But when she got her scuba diving license in Hawaii, she found that she feels just as comfortable under the water as she does on it. 
“Just being under the wa­ter . it’s a completely differ­ent world,” Kanabrocki said. “It’s completely silent, except for the scuba gear, so it’s just really peaceful down there.” 
Kanabrocki’s love of life under the sea is matched by her love for a certain sea creature, which she was lucky enough to spot as soon as she earned her diving li­cense. 
“I have a sea turtle tattooed on my foot,” Kanabrocki said. “I love the sea turtles, so it was really awesome that I saw them on my first dive. It was really exciting.” 
Since “Finding Nemo” came out in 2003, sea turtle love has become common­place. But Kanabrocki’s love predates Squirt, originating instead with memories of her grandfather. 
“My grandpa took me to Shedd Aquarium when I was little, and they have a sea turtle there named Nickel, and when I saw Nickel that’s when I fell in love with the ocean and realized that’s what I wanted to study and what I wanted to protect,” she said. “So sea turtles remind me of my grandpa and the impact he had on me, and also embody the path that I’m on.” 
Kanabrocki’s grandfather, a scientist who studied cir­cadian rhythms and multiple sclerosis, helped inspire his granddaughter’s love of sci­ence and devotion to others. 
“He was really scientific also, but also a really, re­ally kind, spiritual person,” Kanabrocki said. “He’s my ide­al role model because he just had everything interwoven so well and everyone loved him. He was great.” 
Kanabrocki, an environ­mental science and peace studies double major, said her grandpa influenced her dreams for the future. 
“Ideally, I’d work with a [non-governmental organi­zation] or something and do consulting and resource man­agement and coastal conser­vation, and work with people 

see SCUBA/page 14 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Mathews loses in a tiebreaker 

By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
Irish senior co-captain Shannon Mathews forced a third set tie-breaker against South Carolina senior Di­jana Stojic, but ultimately fell 7-6 (7-3), 3-6, 7-6 (7-2) in the second round of the All-American Qualifier on Tues­day. 
“She played well,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “She did a great job of fight­ing back in both matches, and did a great job of taking balls out of the air.” 
Mathews, the Intercolle­giate Tennis Association’s (ITA) No. 38 player, ap­peared to be on a roll in her first round match over No. 43 Nadja Gilchrist of the Uni­versity of Georgia. She won the first set 6-2, but dropped the next set without winning a single game. 
Undeterred, she came back in the third set and won by a decisive 6-2 score. 


see MATHEWS/page 14 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish hope to recover at home 


By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
After failing to extend a four-game winning streak in their last outing, the Irish take the field tonight looking to avoid what would be their first back-to-back losses this season. 
With Northwestern (4-4­2, 0-0-1 Big Ten) coming to town, No. 10 Notre Dame (5­2-2, 1-1-0 Big East) will try to bounce back from Saturday’s devastating, double-overtime 2-1 loss to No. 15 St. John’s (7­2-1, 1-1-0 Big East). 
“The loss to St. John’s was pretty heartbreaking,” senior defender Michael Knapp said. “It’s kind of important to get back [on track]. We were on a little undefeated streak before that . we had five games in a row. Now it’s hard to try and bounce back and try to some­how figure out what exactly our mistakes were in the last game.” 
After turning in what Irish coach Bobby Clark said was ar­guably its best performance of the season against the Red Storm, Notre Dame’s ability to remain confident and focused will play an important role in its matchup against North­western. 
“I thought we played very well [against St. John’s],” Clark said. “I think the big thing is, the [players have] held their belief in themselves. I said to them yesterday, ‘One of the easiest things in soccer 

see CLARK/page 14 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles win over Trine ends streak 

By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
The Belles snapped a two-game skid Tuesday, thanks to a second half offensive surge led by senior Katelyn Tondo-Steele and junior Ashley Morfin. Fol­lowing a scoreless first half, the two midfielders each scored goals in the first 13 minutes of the second half as Saint Mary’s hung on to beat Trine Univer­sity 2-1. 
In the first half, the Belles (7­4, 3-4 MIAA) controlled most of the scoring opportunities but failed to convert any opportuni­ties into goals. They outshot the Thunder (3-7-1, 1-5-1) by a mar­gin of 5-1 in the half and fresh­man goalkeeper Natalie War­ner did not record any saves. 
“Both teams attacked but never seemed to finish off the attack with a shot,” Belles coach Michael Joyce said. “[The scoreless half] was probably a combination of good defending and not executing the final pass 
see BELLES/page 14 




