the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Eddy Street retailers begin recycling 
Program implemented after tenants voice frustration over lack of sustainable options up to this point 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY and 

SAM STRYKER 
News Writers 
For nearly eight months, Jonathan Lutz, owner of The Mark restaurant in Eddy Street Commons, has lugged bags of recyclable waste from his restaurant to his home recy­cling unit in order to salvage as much reusable waste as possi­ble. 
The restaurateur, who also owns Uptown Kitchen in Granger, said there have been no affordable recycling options in the Commons — a joint proj­ect of the University and the city that opened in 2009. To make his business somewhat eco­friendly, Lutz has recycled from home since the restaurant’s opening in August 2010. 
“It’s been one of my greatest frustrations,” Lutz said of the work it takes to carry the waste between work and home. 
Eddy Street Commons finally received two recycling recepta­cles on Feb. 22 to be collected once a week. Kite Realty, the developer of the facility, will increase frequency as demand dictates. The University has worked closely with Kite on developing the Commons as a student-friendly commercial area. 
Lori Wick, director of market­ing for Kite Realty, said while the apartments at Eddy Street Commons have offered recy­cling options since the facility opened in August 2009, the retail and office components were not able to recycle due to space issues. 


“While it was always the intent to have a recycling pro­gram in place for the retail and office components at opening, the challenge of executing this initiative was not thoroughly addressed until recently,” she said. 
Gregory Hakanen, director of Asset Management and Real Estate Development, said the University recently became aware that the businesses in the Commons have not been recy­cling. 
Hakanen said Kite Realty has full responsibility for managing the development. The University plays no role in deci­sions like recycling, he said. 
“Having said that, the University is committed to green principles on and off campus, and we are pleased that Kite has launched its recy­cling program for commercial tenants at Eddy Street Commons,” he said. 
Wick said the company has been working for several months to implement recycling with the help of service provider Waste Management. She said Kite expects tenants to 
see EDDY/page 5 



University saveswith greenfund 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 

The Sustainable Endowments Institute recog­nized Notre Dame on Feb. 9 as a one of 52 national uni­versities saving money through sustainable funding. 
“Greening the Bottom Line,” is the first survey con­ducted on green revolving funds (GRFs) in higher edu­cation. The survey noted the Green Loan Fund at Notre Dame, which financed a transition to compact fluo­rescent lights (CFL) in all 29 residence halls. The switch, beginning October 2008 and completed September 2010, has saved $529 per month. Ultimately, this resulted in a 75 percent return on invest­ment. 
Erin Hafner, programs manager of the Office of Sustainability said the Energy and Environmental Issues Committee, a group of faculty and students formed in the 1980s, initiated the Green Loan Fund in 2008. This $2 million fund allows the Office of Sustainability to manage projects proposed 
see GREEN/page 4 



Bayh speaks about government, common good 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Former U.S senator and gov­ernor of Indiana Evan Bayh, who was recently in New Zealand when an earthquake hit, said while the past few days have been traumatic, they have taught him how interre­lated nations have become. 
“I feel like my last 48 hours have been an example of glob­alization,” he said. 
Bayh spoke about the role of the government in promoting the common good in an increasingly interconnected world, and the future of the American economy at the Notre Dame Forum Thursday. 
Bayh said though he hasn’t had time to reflect on the events, he did realize how heroic the U.S. government was in the face of disaster. 
“They stayed up throughout the night looking for Americans, trying to find tourists that were there, trying to get them out of the country,” he said. 
Bayh stressed the random­ness of life and the necessity of preparing ourselves for adver­sity, as well as the importance of realizing the physical things are not important. 
“Your friends, your family, the relationships you forge,” he said. “That really is the stuff that makes life worth liv­ing.” 
Bayh moved on to discuss the responsibility of public figures to promote the common good in today’s complex world. 
The United States was found­ed on the beliefs of individual liberty, Bayh said, but in order to make the most of these free­doms, a sense of unification needed to emerge. He said he decided not to run for re-elec­tion in 2010 because partisan­ship has become too prominent in government. 
“I hope we focus on the fact that we’re Americans first and not Republicans or Democrats first,” he said. 
Bayh believes there are two factors that make an economy competitive in today’s world. 
One important facet Bayh noted was investment in research and developing and creating new commodities, such as new cures for disease and new ways of communica­tion. 
Bayh said though the United States leads the world in the amount of money it invests in research and development, 
see FORUM/page 5 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER CSC to offer new spring seminar page 3  Oscar predictions page 10  Men’s and women’s basketball return home page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Friday, February 25, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W ERE ARE YOU GOING FOR SPRING BREAK?

THE OBSERVER 





P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 

NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Sam Stryker Mike Gotimer Kristen Durbin Megan Finneran Anna Boarini Jack Hefferon 
Graphics Scene 
Sofia Iturbe Courtney Cox 
Photo Viewpoint 
Sarah O’Connor Megan Kozak 
OFFBEAT 

Men arrested after pulling prank on friends 
EBENSBURG, Pa. — Police plan to cite two men who left a package containing a cow's head on the doorstep of some friends in Pennsylvania. 
Ebensburg police Chief Terry Wyland tells the Tribune -Democrat of Johnstown that it was a “prank” that “went quite a bit over the top.” 
The chief says a couple returned home from a trip Saturday evening to find a large cardboard box with their name and address on it near their front door. Inside was the cow’s head. The chief says it “caused the vic­tims, especially the wife, stress.” 
Bobby Manfreda  Rachael Perron  Beatrix Weil  Kaitlyn Farrelo  
sophomore  sophomore  freshman  freshman  
Dillon  McGlinn  Ryan  Ryan  

“Visiting friends “Home.” “I’m going to “New York.” at Notre Dame.” Disney.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

Police say the pranksters came to police headquarters to confess Tuesday night. One of them has experi­ence butchering cows. 
The chief isn't naming the suspects. He plans to file harassment and dis­orderly conduct citations against them later this week. 
School rule inspires student to write song 
SAVANNAH, Ga. — The principal of Savannah High School was always telling his students to tuck in their shirts and take out their gold teeth. So a group of students decided to write a hip-hop song about the badgering. 
When they presented it to principal Toney Jordan, he asked a technology teacher to help the stu­dents produce a video. 
Now, the song about removable gold teeth, known as grills in the hip-hop world, is a schoolwide project. Everyone from the band, the cheerleaders and teachers are getting involved. 
Senior Raynell Murrel wrote the song with other students during their win­ter break. Murrel calls it “I Can't Hear You With That Gold in Your Mouth.” 
The students plan to enter the project in high school media contests and host a video release party. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Pangborn Hall will be host­ing its signature event Project PINK for the S.O.S. Rape Crisis Center as a part of sexual assault awareness week. The event will start at 5 p.m. Friday at Legends and will feature a fashion show, raffle and silent auction. All money raised will benefit the Family Justice Center, the St. Joseph Country rape crisis center. 
As a part of National Engineering Week the Joint Engineering Council will be putting on the ASME Dremel Derby. The event starts at 9 
a.m. Saturday in the Stimson-Remick atrium . Register at www.nd.edu/~jec. 
A self defense introduc­tion will be held Saturday at 2 p.m in the LaFortune Student Center. This crime ­victim prevention program is for women only and will be facilitated by Notre Dame Security Police crime preven­tion officer Keri Kei Shibata. 
Fiestang 2011 a Filipino dinner and cultural show will start Saturday at 5:30 p.m. in the Stepan Center. Dinner will be served at 6 p.m. and the show will start at 7 p.m. Tickets can be purchased at the door for $10 or at LaFortune Student Center for $8. 
The Muppet Movie will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Sunday at 3 p.m. This 1978 film follows Kermit the frog from his home in a Southern swamp to the bright lights of Hollywood. The event is free but ticketed. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight saturday sunday Monday Tuesday 
CORRECTIONS 

A Feb. 21 article, “‘This is a chance to celebrate:’ ND joins communi­ty to commemorate Robinson Community Learning Center's 10th year,” misidentified Nicole MacLaughlin's position at Notre Dame. She teaches 


30 21 HIGH 3034 4235 
for the University Writing Center. The Observer 

21 19 LOW 2433 2228
regrets this error. 







Friday, February 25, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



CSC offers new seminar 
The surgery center is locat-

By EMMA RUSS 
ed on the Nuestros Pequeños 
News Writer 
Hermanos Orphanage Ranch, 
home to hundreds of 

As part of a new Center for Honduran orphans. Daly, Social Concerns seminar, stu-whose family established the dents will travel to Honduras surgery center, said students this spring break to learn stay at the ranch and have about health care options for the opportunity to share Honduran people and inter-meals with the children, act with physi -tutor and cians and public play with health personnel, them. senior Michael Six Saint Daly, a seminar “There are so many Mary’s student leader, nursing
compassionate medical
said. students 
professionals that go
The course, will go to titled Global down to help the poor of work at Health Seminar, is the sur ­
Honduras.” 
a collaboration of gery cen ­the Center and ter in 
Sam Russ
Saint Mary’s partner ­College. sophomore ship with 
The seminar is located near Tegucigalpa at the Nuestros Pequeños Hermanos (NPH) Holy Family Surgery Center, where volunteer surgeons provide free surgeries to poverty-stricken patients. 
Daly, a senior, said students will gain valuable medical experience in preoperative and postoperative care as well as sterilization of surgi­cal equipment. 
“Students are able to ‘scrub in’ on surgeries, allowing the students to stand next to the operating table and receive a closer look into the surgical procedures,” he said. 
Sophomore Tiffany Fan said she excited for the hands-on nature of the seminar. 
“I am extremely excited to interact with doctors and patients and be able to learn more about the intricacies of global health, all within the context of service,” she said. 
the six 
Notre 
Dame stu­
dents who will attend each year, Daly said. 
“The nurses are integral in the operation of the surgery center,” he said. 
Members of the Notre Dame organization Friends of the Orphans (FOTO) have already participated in several trips to the surgery center. Their annual trip has been repur­posed into the Global Health Seminar. 
“I have always envisioned a curriculum to complement the service learning trips to the NPH orphanages in order to provide students with appropriate reflection about the experiences and opportu­nities to integrate their daily life through academics with service,” Daly said. 
Senior FOTO member Sam Russ said he is looking for­ward to his second trip to Honduras. 
“There are so many com­passionate medical profes­sionals that go down to help the poor of Honduras,” he said. “[Their example] has framed the way I see my future career as a doctor.” 
Students will also partici­pate in the religious tradition of the Honduran people. 
“It is really cool to see their prayer in community and how excited they are to involve us,” senior Caitlin Nichols said. 
Prior to departure, students will attend seminar classes to discuss various health issues. Senior Brittany Johnson, a seminar student leader, said the classes emphasize prob­lems transcending national borders. Students will exam­ine the role of international health agencies as well as the role of the Church in global health care, she said. 
Daly said the seminar is rewarding spiritually and academically. 
“The seminar brings the course information to life; you are able to put a face on poverty and see the impact 
one person can have on another through the power of God,” he said. 
Johnson said she appreci­ates the unifying experience of the trip. 
“My favorite part about working at the surgery center is witnessing medicine in its purest form,” she said. “The entire health care team has 
one mission: to heal the patient. There are no finan­cial or hierarchical goals. There are no egos. It’s beau­tiful.” 


Contact Emma Russ at eruss@nd.edu 

Professor to research personality disorders 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Psychology Professor Lee Anna Clark was recently awarded a $2 million grant from the National Institute of Mental Health. The funds will go toward a five-year study to change the way personality disorders are diagnosed. 
Clark said the project is looking to bridge the gap between personality order identification and designa­tion. 
“The bottom line for the grant is to gather informa­tion that might allow us to build a better system,” Clark said. “There is a mismatch between the way personality disorders are diagnosed and the way they are defined and we want to see if we can bring those into better alignment.” 
The current diagnostic system uses a certain set of criteria for each personality disorder, Clark said. 
“It’s proven to be a pretty good measure of personality traits in abnormal range,” she said. “But it’s not per­fect and we need to figure out what other traits are necessary.” 
Clark said the core dys­function of a personality dis­order is an impairment in a person’s sense of self and their ability to relate to other people. 
“Our personalities are designed to help us function in the world, ” she said. “When that personality sys­tem doesn’t develop or func­tion properly, that’s a per­sonality disorder.” 

Clark said one of the main goals of the study is to determine a complete, com­prehensive set of personali­ty traits to be used in diag­nosing personality disor­ders. 
“We want to understand more about the notion of personality functioning, which is a relatively new concept,” she said. “We want to see how we can bet­ter measure that coherent sense of self.” 
Clark said the first two phases of the study involve conducting interviews and gathering data from patients at the Oaklawn Psychiatric Center, a local nonprofit mental health agency. 
The second phase of the study will take three years, Clark said. 
“We’ll interview a total of 600 participants and also talk to others who know them well,” she said. “The belief about people with personality disorders is that they don’t have good insight into their own personalities, so they need to get another perspective.” 
The third and final stage of the study will test the sys­tem developed based on the information gathered from the previous two phases, Clark said. 
“We ultimately want to be able to assess and diagnosis personality disorders using the traits that define them,” she said. 

Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 



Dance Marathon sets record charity goal 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
With 12 hours of dancing, crafts, activities and perform­ers, Saint Mary’s Dance Marathon has teamed up with Notre Dame in the hopes of raising more than last year’s total of over $77,000 for the Riley Hospital for Children. 
Meaghan Curliss, senior and vice president of Dance Marathon, said organizers of the event set high expecta­tions. 
“Our goal is always to beat the year before,” she said. 
This year’s Dance Marathon will begin March 5 at noon and end at midnight. 
Senior Colleen Trausch, dancer relations and recruit­ment chair, said the group is on its way to matching last year’s total with 100 dancers signed up from Saint Mary’s alone. She said they do not know the number of Notre Dame participants yet. 
Curliss said the committee hopes to increase the number of dancers. 
“We want more participants 
— people who will stick with the cause,” she said. 
Children from the Riley Hospital for Children and their families will be attend­ing the event. 
“Participants will really have a chance to see a tangi­ble effect on the children whose lives they are helping,” Curliss said. 

The night will also include crafts, activities, inflatables and food for the dancers. Local bands will perform, and there will be a DJ for the entire event. Chipotle, Papa Vino’s, Red Robin, Hot Box and Subway will be available. 
Curliss said she appreciates the participants coming out for a good cause. 
“I’m really excited,” Curliss said. “I really hope everyone can come out. It’s a great event to see how much this can impact and really change lives.” 
Those who are not regis­tered are still invited to come. 
“It’s a really rewarding event,” Trausch said. 
To register for the event, students are asked for a $15 donation, which can be done today and Feb. 28 to March 4 in the Student Center Atrium during lunch and dinner hours. Notre Dame students can register online by search­ing Riley Children Foundation at www.nd.edu. Donations can be made through Saint Mary’s Dance Marathon’s website, www.smcdance­marathon.org 

Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 25, 2011 


DeBartolo Hall lab toreceivemakeover 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
The Office of Information Technologies has removed the help desk from the DeBartolo Hall computer lab and is seeking stu­dent input about how best to uti­lize the space. 
Brian Burchett, Manager of Technology Enhanced Learning Spaces at the Office of Information Technologies (OIT) said OIT removed the help desk because there was no longer a need for it. 
“We weren’t really staffing that area,” Burchett said. “DeBartolo was built in 1992. We had three people who worked behind the help desk counter, and they were busy all the time with questions. Not many people had computers at home, and when they came to school, they had a lot of questions about really basic stuff. Students nowadays ask a lot fewer ques­tions, so it looks to us like we could cut back.” 
Burchett said student employ­ees did not lose their jobs as a result of the help desk’s removal. 
“Last year, when seniors puters and more printers, some people say Linux computers, [and] somebody said they wanted a burrito bar,” Burchett said. “Somebody else said they wanted go-go dancers. The go-go dancers are probably not going to mix well with the Catholic character of the University.” 
OIT has not yet decided what to do with the space, Burchett said. Staff members plan to create a conceptual design as a starting point so OIT can give the University an estimate of the pro­ject’s cost. 
Burchett said OIT has given serious consideration to merging the computer lab with the adja­cent lounge. OIT would add a variety of seating configurations so students could work in groups. 
OIT has also considered adding more printers to the lab so lines would be shorter in between classes, Burchett said. 
Burchett said OIT is very inter­ested in students’ suggestions. 
“If students have a friend or a sibling that goes to a school that has a really cool computer lab and they want us to do something similar to one of those schools, we’d love for somebody to give 

graduated,  we  “We want to make  us a website or  
didn’t let anybody go. We just didn’t replace all the  student input in the DeBartolo [Hall] lab  take pictures and send them to us,” he said. “We real- 
seniors who graduated,” he said. “So the folks  design signifcant as well.”  ly want it to be a space that stu­dents like and  
who worked in  can feel like [is]  
DeBartolo  last  Brian Burchett  their space.”  
year and were coming back were assigned to work in the  manager Technology Enhanced Learning Spaces  OIT is consider­ing various fund­ing options, Burchett said.  

[H esburgh] Library or LaFortune [Student Center] this year.” 
Burchett said OIT plans to remodel the DeBartolo computer lab in a way similar to how LaFortune’s was renovated. 
“You can see the kinds of things that are in the LaFortune lab, and you can see the difference between the way it is and the way DeBartolo is,” Burchett said. 
“We know that 
it’s going to be an expensive project, so funding is an issue, especially when the economy is not what we all would like it to be and the University has to be careful with its resources,” he said. “Because we know it’s going to be an expensive project, it’s probably not a project the OIT can fund on its own. We’re proba­bly going to have to seek funding from other sources on campus.” 
“There’s not real­ly any place to work in groups [in DeBartolo].” 
White boards now stand where the help desk used to be, offer­ing students an opportunity to suggest ideas for the newly empty space. 
“It’s one way that we wanted to get some initial ideas from the students,” 

“I think the key is if we come up with something the students really like, then I think the University will support it.” 
Brian Burchett manager Technology Enhanced Learning Spaces 
Burchett said OIT would not have an exact timeline for the project until funds are allocat­ed. 
“I would hope that we can have funds allocated in the fall so that we could start the project in the summer of 2012, but that is defi­nitely a goal and not real yet,” he said. “I think the 


Green 
continued from page 1 
by students and staff. 

Principal author Dano Weisbord said in “Greening the Bottom Line” the most impres­sive feature of this fund is its ability to provide money from previous investments for future green upgrades. 
Contributing author Mark Orlowski, executive director of the Sustainable Endowments Institute, said in the report that other schools also have paid more attention to sustainability. 
“The trend is clear both in terms of money saved and reduced energy consumption,” he said. “The number of green revolving funds has more than quadrupled since 2008.” 
Hafner said Notre Dame has made major strides in this area. 
“Look back to the green report card of 2007 and 2008, we had a D-,” she said. “Now we have a B+, which we’ve done with programming, out­reach and training.” 
To achieve this grade, the Office of Sustainability has revamped many of its pro­grams and transportation sys­tems, as well as introducing new events on campus, Hafner said. 
“This Friday we have our annual spring semester Green Summit. The University is also in the middle of an energy con­servation program and upgrad­ing lights in older buildings,” she said. 
Hafner said the University is incorporating eco-friendly vehi­cles into its transportation sys­tem. Most recently, the Zip Car appeared in the Notre Dame fleet and is available for stu­dents and faculty use. 
Other transportation alter­ations include hybrid vehicles for students, faculty and staff to rent for travel to meetings and conferences. To accompa­ny this change, a low emission vehicle parking program for Low Emissions Vehicles (LEVs) has been established. 
“We’ve been working with a couple of companies for the electric vehicle charging sta­tions,” Hafner said. “We had some trials in the fall semester and are hoping to pilot some others.” 
In the next few months, Hafner said these should be available in parking lots. Additionally, the University is researching how to replace service vehicles with electric substitutes. 
“We’re really excited because it opens a lot of doors. If this happens, we can add to our fleet,” she said. “We’d retire work trucks and replace them with the electric ones.” 
The biggest component of what the University is working on with sustainability, Hafner said, is education. Along with introducing a sustainability aspect to freshman Contemporary Topics courses, the Office of Sustainability is promoting current and possible minors. 


“[The Office of Sustainability] in the process of creating courses for a sustainability minor for the broader cam­pus,” she said. “We’re trying to work more with the academy on opportunities that just haven’t been called out yet.” 
At Notre Dame, there are unique difficulties other schools are not forced to face, Hafner said. Energy on campus is extremely cheap, while on the East and West Coasts cost is higher. 
“To justify energy programs on campus is difficult because it’s so cheap,” she said. “We’re trying to formulate program­ming around that.” 
A grassroots approach must be taken, with each individual contributing to the cause, she said. 
“Educate yourself. People don’t necessarily take time to do so,” she said. “Shut lights off, take shorter showers, recy­cle and purchase fewer items so less natural resources are used.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 


Burchett said. “When we did the LaFortune lab design, students played a really big part in the design process. We want to make student input in the DeBartolo lab design significant as well.” 
Burchett said students have suggested both practical and funny ideas. 
“Some people have said group study rooms like [in] LaFortune, some people have said more com-key is if we come up with some­thing the students really like, then I think the University will support it. 
“The primary reason student input is important to us is stu­dents spend so much time there and we want it to be a place stu­dents really like.” 

Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 


Friday, February 25, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 


Eddy 
continued from page 1 
participate in the service. 
“Eddy Street Commons will require all tenants to recycle as part of its initiative to ‘Go Green,’” Wick said. “It’s clear that single-stream recycling is a priority and we will require all tenants to sup­port this effort.” 
Wick said Kite Realty would con­tinue to work in cooperation with the University’s vision. 
“Notre Dame sets a great exam­ple on a wide array of initiatives, including recycling and sustainabili­ty,” she said. “We look to these examples and standards as we con­tinue to improve day-to-day opera­tions at Eddy Street Commons.” 
Some workers in the Commons say the lack of recycling up to this point has been frustrating. Despite recycling some waste from the Mark restaurant by bringing it home, Lutz said he can never recy­cle 100 percent of what could be recycled. 
“It’s an incredible amount of work,” he said. 
Nan Mullaney, an employee of the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore satellite store in the Commons, worked at the cash reg­ister during football season in the fall. She has seen all the cardboard boxes and plastic bags that held the Notre Dame apparel thrown away. 
“There’s a crusher in the back where the trash is put into every night,” she said. 
When she first started at the Bookstore nine months ago, recy­cling was one of the first issues Mullaney, a 1981 Notre Dame graduate, brought up to manage­ment. 
“They just said there’s no recy­cling because it’s expensive,” she said. 
The city of South Bend does not offer recycling for free. 
“It’s egregious, just so egregious,” Mullaney said of the recyclable waste she has seen thrown away at the Bookstore for the nine months she has worked there. 
Heather Christophersen, director of Sustainability at Notre Dame, said off-campus projects like Eddy Street Commons do not count toward third-party evaluations of the University, like the Sustainability Endowments Institute’s annual report card that evaluates the environmental impact of national universities. Notre Dame most recently received a B+ overall grade for sustainability efforts. 
“Technically [Eddy Street Commons] is not part of campus, but because Notre Dame employ­ees are there I’d love to be able to count their recycling and waste numbers,” Christophersen said. “So that is something we need to work out.” 
Lutz said any push for recycling would be a positive change. 
“If it’s the case, it’s wonderful,” he said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu and Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 



Forum 
continued from page 1 

progress is flat while that of other countries is ascending. 
The second necessary fea­ture is a high degree of edu­cation among the nation’s citi­zens. 
“We need to make sure our citizens can take advantage of the fruits of innovation by being innovators themselves,” Bayh said. 
The gap in standard of liv­ing between well-educated citizens and those without any education is growing, he said. This needs to be addressed before it has extreme an eco­
nomic and political impact on society. 
“All of us need to know more about what’s going on to make informed deci­sions about who’s going to lead us,” he said. 
Bayh said the growing global­ization of the 

need of government observa-but at the same time main­tion for safety reasons. tains the common good. “There really are no limits “We have to be secure, but there because [the terrorists] at the same time true to our 
are  suicidal,”  values,”  he  
he said. “This changed the whole notion of  “Look at the innate dynamism, the  said. Bayh said in spite of these  
our self-defense.” With enemies  ingenuity and when the chips are down,  issues, he was o p t i m i s t i c about the  
such  as  these,  the goodness of the  future  of  
Bayh said the g o v e r n m e n t needed to take extra precau- American people. I just think we’re going to succeed.”  America as a strong force in the global economy.  
tions  such  as  Europe  is  
eavesdropping and surveil- Evan Bayh former U.S. Senator  aging and in debt, he said,  

lance, raising the question of how much is appropriate and 

“We need to make sure our citizens can take advantage of the fruits of innovation by being innovators themselves.” 
Evan Bayh former U.S. Senator 
how much is not. 
“If you get it wrong on one hand, you’ve trampled on our civil liber­ties, which goes right to the core of who we are,” he said. “If you get it wrong on the other hand, people die, which may be and while the 

Indian subcon­tinent is innovative, its large, poor population is a weak­ness. 
China, the last major com­petitor, has a quickly growing economy and a surplus of financial resources. However, Bayh said the country does not have a political system to absorb its population. He believes America will be the strongest contender in the global economy. 
“Look at the innate dynamism, the ingenuity and when the chips are down, the goodness of the American people,” Bayh said. “I just think we’re going to suc­ceed.” 
Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 

economy raised questions for the role of the government. 
For example, Bayh cited Sept. 11 as an example between the great debate over personal liberties versus the the greatest destruction of civil liberties.” 
With global threats to the people’s liberties, Bayh said the government must act in a way that keeps the nation safe 


page 6 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Friday, February 25, 2011 



Air Force awards contract to Boeing 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Capping a decade of delays and embarrass­ing missteps, the Air Force on Thursday awarded one of the biggest defense contracts ever — a $35 billion deal to build nearly 200 giant airborne refueling tankers — to Chicago-based Boeing Co. over European Aeronautic Defence and Space Co. 
The contract will mean tens of thousands of jobs for a recession-weary nation, with Washington state and Kansas getting the bulk of the work building a replace­ment for the Eisenhower-era tanker fleet. The decision was a blow to the Gulf Coast and Alabama, which had been count­ing on EADS to assemble the air­craft at a long-shuttered military base in Mobile. 
Air Force Secretary Michael Donley said the contract “repre­sents a long overdue start to a much-needed program” as somewhat relieved Pentagon offi­cials announced the decision, a clear surprise since defense ana­lysts, lawmakers and even com­pany executives had expected EADS to prevail. 
“What we can tell you was that Boeing was a clear winner,” Deputy Defense Secretary William Lynn said. 
Replacing the 1950s-era KC­135 planes — the equivalent of a flying gas station — is crucial for the military. Pilots who weren’t even born when the last aircraft was delivered in 1965 are oper­ating air tankers that the Pentagon is struggling to keep in flying shape. 
The refueling tankers allow jet fighters, supply planes and other aircraft to cover long distances, critical today with fewer over­seas bases and with operations under way far from the United States in places like Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Pentagon leaders said both bidders met all 372 mandatory requirements for the contract. They said because the difference in price between the two bids was greater than 1 percent of the total, the cost essentially was the deciding factor, and other non-mandatory requirements were not used to make the decision. 
The award gives Boeing the initial $3.5 billion for engineer­ing, manufacturing and develop­ment of the first four aircraft. 
Under the contract, 18 tankers will be delivered to the Air Force by 2017. 
Boeing will have to move fast to get the plane ready, at a time when its commercial aircraft division is still trying to deliver the new 787 and a new version of the 747. 
“This will be a rapid-pace pro­gram, one that will be very focused on getting capability out to our warfighters as soon as possible,” said Dennis Muilenburg, president and CEO of Boeing’s defense business. 
Both Boeing and EADS have said they were aggressive in their bids. Muilenburg declined to say how much Boeing cut into its anticipated profits with its final bid. 
“Clearly we’ve been focused on affordability,” he said. He said Boeing was able to make the plane more cheaply because it will be made on the same pro­duction line as the civilian ver­sion. 
Although the plane is based on its passenger-carrying 767, and has some similarities to a tanker it is building for Italy and Japan, many pieces are different from the U.S. Air Force version. As a result, production and the plane’s first flight are not expect­ed until 2015, said Jean Chamberlin, vice president and general manager of the tanker program. 
Lawmakers who have lobbied for Boeing to win the contract were gleeful over the news. 
“I’m in the middle of a blizzard but it’s all blue skies,” said Sen. Pat Roberts, R-Kan. 
Said Rep. Norm Dicks, D-Wash.: “This is the happiest day of my professional life.” He called the win decisive. 
Lawmakers from Alabama were bitter in defeat and sug­gested politics played a role. 
“I’m disappointed but not sur­prised,” Republican Sen. Richard Shelby said. “Only Chicago poli­tics could tip the scales in favor of Boeing’s inferior plane. EADS clearly offers the more capable aircraft.” 
Not only does President Barack Obama call Chicago home, but his new chief of staff, William M. Daley, resigned in January from the Boeing board of directors where he had served since 2006. The White House had said Daley would have no role in the Air Force decision. 


GOP to target gay marriage in 2012 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — Angered con­servatives are vowing to make same-sex marriage a front-burner election issue, national­ly and in the states, following the Obama administration’s announcement that it will no longer defend the federal law denying recognition to gay married couples. 
“The ripple effect nationwide will be to galvanize supporters of marriage,” said staff counsel Jim Campbell of Alliance Defense Fund, a conservative legal group. 
On the federal level, oppo­nents of same-sex marriage urged Republican leaders in the House of Representatives to intervene on their own to defend the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act, or DOMA, against pending court chal­lenges. 
“The president has thrown down the gauntlet, challenging Congress,” said Tony Perkins of the Family Research Council. “It is incumbent upon the Republican leadership to respond by intervening to defend DOMA, or they will become complicit in the presi­dent’s neglect of duty.” 
Conservatives also said they would now expect the eventual 2012 GOP presidential nominee to highlight the marriage debate as part of a challenge to Obama, putting the issue on equal footing with the econo­my. 
Gay rights activists welcomed Wednesday’s announcement from the Justice Department, sensing that it would bolster the prospects for same-sex marriage in the courts. Among Democrats in Congress, there was praise for Obama’s deci­sion and talk of proposing leg­islation to repeal the law alto­gether. 
“I opposed the Defense of Marriage Act in 1996. It was the wrong law then; it is the wrong law now,” said Sen. Diane Feinstein, D-Calif. “My own belief is that when two people love each other and enter the contract of marriage, the federal government should honor that.” 
On the state level, there were swift repercussions. 
In Rhode Island, the Roman Catholic bishop of Providence, Thomas Tobin, said Thursday that his diocese would “redou­ble its efforts’ to defeat a pend­ing same-sex marriage bill in response to the announcement. In Iowa, conservative activist Bob Vander Plaats said the DOMA decision would invigor­ate a campaign to repeal the state’s court-ordered same-sex marriage law. 
“This gives us more credibili­ty than ever with this issue,” said Vander Plaats, who wants to topple the Democratic lead­ership in the state Senate that is blocking efforts to put a same-sex marriage repeal pro­posal on the ballot. 
In Maryland, meanwhile, the state Senate was debating a bill that would make that state the sixth to legalize same-sex mar­riage — joining Iowa, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Vermont and New Hampshire. 
Linsey Pecikonis of the gay-rights group Equality Maryland predicted the DOMA announce­ment would improve the bill’s prospects. 
“It’s a recognition that gov­ernment is no longer able to defend discrimination,” she said. 
In Congress, GOP House lead­ers gave no immediate indica­tion whether they would inter­vene to defend DOMA in the ongoing lawsuits, but they harshly criticized Obama’s decision. 

“This is the real politicization of the Justice Department — when the personal views of the president override the govern­ment’s duty to defend the law of the land,” said House Judiciary Chairman Lamar Smith, R-Texas. “It’s disap­pointing that the Obama administration continues to place politics above the will of the American people.” 
In fact, many polls show the public almost evenly divided on legalizing same-sex marriage, one reason the issue is so volatile politically. 
Perkins, the Family Research Council leader, suggested that House Republicans would risk alienating their conservative base if they did not tackle the marriage issue head-on. 
“The president was kind of tossing this cultural grenade into the Republican camp,” he said. 
“If they ignore this, it becomes an issue that will lead to some very troubling out­comes for Republicans.” 
Jon Davidson, legal director of the gay-rights group Lambda Legal, predicted the DOMA announcement would energize opponents of gay marriage, but he questioned whether that would have much impact on the 2012 presidential race. 
“I think they will try to turn this into a major election issue,” he said. “But the people who feel strongly that same-sex couples should not be allowed to marry were not going to vote for President Obama anyway.” 

Friday, February 25, 2011 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 


Toyota recalls U.S. vehicles 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Toyota Motor Corp. recalled 2.17 million vehicles in the United States on Thursday to address accelerator pedals that could become entrapped in floor mats or jammed in driver' s side carpeting, prompting federal regulators to close its investigation into the embattled automaker. 
The Transportation Department said it had reviewed more than 400,000 pages of Toyota documents to determine whether the scope of the company's recalls for pedal entrapment was suffi­cient. 
“As a result of the agency's review, (the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration) asked Toyota to recall these additional vehicles, and now that the company has done so, our investigation is closed,” said NHTSA administrator David Strickland. 
Toyota has now recalled more than 14 million vehicles globally to fix gas pedals and other safety problems since 2009. The company has received intense scrutiny from the government since August 2009, when four peo­ple were killed in a high ­speed crash involving a Lexus near San Diego. 
U.S. regulators largely cleared the company earlier this month, saying that elec­tronic flaws were not to blame for reports of sudden, unintended acceleration that led to hundreds of com ­plaints. Transportation offi­cials tied the problems to mechanical defects dealt with in recalls and “pedal misap­plication,” in which the driv­er stepped on the accelerator instead of the brakes. The company has, however, paid the U.S. government a record $48.8 million in fines for its handling of three recalls. 
The world's No. 1 automak­er has tried to move beyond the recalls, vowing to heed customer complaints and upgrade its safety technology. The company has installed on new vehicles brake override systems, which automatically cut the throttle when the brake and gas pedals are applied simultaneously, and created engineering teams to examine vehicles that are the subject of consumer com ­plaints. 
In its latest safety action, Toyota said more than half of the vehicles under recall were being added to a mas­sive 2009 recall that fixed gas pedals getting trapped in the floor mat. 
The Japanese automaker said it would add three mod­els to the 2009 pedal entrap­ment recall: about 600,000 4Runner SUVs from the 2003 -2009 model years; 761,000 RAV4 compact SUVs from the 2006-2010 model years; and 17,000 Lexus LX 570s from the 2008 -2011 model years. 
Toyota spokesman Brian Lyons said the additional pedal entrapment recalls were “based on our contin­ued constructive dialogue with NHTSA. While our actions up to now have led to a substantial reduction in reports of acceleration con­cerns, we mutually agreed that Toyota would take these additional steps to help ensure that acceleration con­cerns are further reduced.” 
The recall also includes 372,000 RX 330, RX 350 and RX 400H vehicles from the 2004 through early 2007 model years and 397,000 2004-2006 Toyota Highlander SUVs and hybrid versions to replace floor carpet covering and retention clips on the driver's side that could inter­fere with the accelerator pedal arm. 
Toyota also recalled 20,000 2006 through early 2007 GS 300 and GS 350 all -wheel drive vehicles to change the shape of a plastic pad embed­ded in the driver's side floor carpet that could cause pedal interference. 
Lyons said the company was unaware of any acci ­dents or injuries related to the new recalls. NHTSA said it had not confirmed any deaths or injuries associated with the latest recalls. 
Toyota still faces dozens of lawsuits from owners. NHTSA has received about 3,000 reports of sudden accelera­tion incidents involving Toyota vehicles during the past decade, including allega­tions of 93 deaths. NHTSA, however, has confirmed five of them. 
The company said owners of the recalled GS 300 and GS 350 vehicles will be notified of the recall in early March. Owners of the RX and Highlander vehicles will be notified in the “near future” and receive a second notifica­tion once replacement covers are available. 
Owners of the recalled 4Runner, LX 570 and RAV4s will also receive an initial notification in the near future, followed by a second notification once the recall preparations are complete. 



Troopers sent to find Wisconsin Democrats 
Associated Press 
MADISON, Wis. — Wisconsin state troopers were dispatched Thursday to the doorsteps of some of the AWOL Democratic senators in hopes of finding at least one who would come back to allow a vote on a measure to curb the power of public-employee unions. 
The stepped-up tactic ordered by the Republican head of the Senate came amid reports that at least a few of the missing senators were returning home at night to pick up clothes, food and other necessities, before rejoining their colleagues in Illinois. 
Meanwhile, the state Assembly appeared close to voting on the bill after more than two days of filibustering. 
Democrats agreed before dawn Thursday to limit the remaining number of amend­ments they offer and the time they devote to each one. More than 12 hours after the agree­ment was announced, Republicans voted to cut of discussion on all amendments. Democrats then spent hours delaying a vote on the meas­ure that Gov. Scott Walker insists is necessary to ease the state’s budget woes and avoid mass layoffs. 
Democrats urged Republicans to accept a com­promise that would keep col­lective bargaining intact. 
“We all know there is an impasse. There is one person who can end this impasse and that is Gov. Walker,” said Democratic Assembly Leader Peter Barca as debate reached its 53rd hour. “This state has never been more divided in the last 25 years. ... It’s the governor’s job to unify the state.” 
But Republicans summarily rejected every Democratic amendment in the marathon session, which unfolded as grand political theater. Exhausted lawmakers limped around the chamber, rubbing their eyes and yawning as Wednesday dragged into Thursday. 
Around midnight, Rep. Dean Kaufert, a Republican from Neenah, accused Democrats of putting on a show for the pro­testers. Democrats leaped up and started shouting. 
“I’m sorry if democracy is a little inconvenient, and you had to stay up two nights in a row,” Pocan said. “Is this inconvenient? Hell, yeah, it’s inconvenient! But we’re going to be heard!” 
Democrats, who are in the minority, don’t have the votes to stop the bill once the vote occurs. 
But even after the bill passes the Assembly, it cannot become law until it also passes the Senate, where action has been stymied by the Democrats’ absence. At least one of them needs to be there in order for Republicans to take up the bill since the GOP is one seat short of having a quorum. 
The Senate convened at 7 
a.m. Thursday just long enough to take a roll call, which allows for the sergeant at arms staff to go to missing lawmakers’ homes with police. 
Troopers went to multiple homes but left after finding no one home, said Sergeant at Arms Ted Blazel. 
Wisconsin law does not allow police to arrest the law­makers, but Republican Senate Majority Leader Scott Fitzgerald said he hoped the show of authority would pres­sure them to return. He would not say how many Democrats were being targeted, but said it was more than one. 

“Every night we hear about some that are coming back home,” Fitzgerald said. Whether to send police out again is a day-by-day decision, he said. 
Democratic Sen. Jon Erpenbach, who was in the Chicago area, said all 14 sena­tors remained outside of Wisconsin and would not return until Walker was will­ing to compromise. 
“It’s not so much the Democrats holding things up,” Erpenbach said. “It’s really a matter of Gov. Walker holding things up.” 
Walker, in a Capitol news conference, praised the Assembly for moving toward a vote and renewed his call for Senate Democrats to come back. 
“It’s still my belief in the end they’ll come home,” he said. 
Walker repeated his warning that if the budget bill does not pass by Friday, the state will miss a deadline to refinance $165 million of debt and will be forced to start issuing layoff notices next week. 
While Walker is trying to increase the pressure to act, the deadlines may not be quite as strict as he says. 
The nonpartisan Legislative Fiscal Bureau said in a memo sent to lawmakers earlier this week that the debt refinancing could be pushed as late as Tuesday in order to achieve the savings Walker is seeking. 
The governor is trying to balance a projected $137 mil­lion budget shortfall by July. 
Based on a similar refinanc­ing in 2004, about two weeks are needed after the bill becomes law to complete the refinancing, which means if the bill is adopted by the mid­dle of next week, the state can still meet a March 16 deadline, the Fiscal Bureau said. 
Walker has suggested the deadline is actually Friday in order to pressure lawmakers to act on the bill, which has drawn tens of thousands of protesters to the Capitol. The rallies reached a high of 68,000 people on Feb. 19 and hundreds have stayed overnight. 
Fitzgerald said the real deadline is “up in the air.” 
“Everything’s in place, it’s ready to go,” he said. “It just needs to be finalized.” 
Walker also threatened to start sending layoff notices to up to 1,500 state workers next week if the bill isn’t passed, arguing he has no other choice to deal with the shortfall. He has not said who would be tar­geted. 
School districts already have started sending out prelimi­nary layoff notices in case they are needed later. 
The battle over labor rights has been heating up across the country, as new Republican majorities tackle budget deficits in several states. The GOP efforts have sparked huge protests from unions and their supporters and led Democrats in Wisconsin and Indiana to flee their states to block major legislation. 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Friday, February 25, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Ode to Kirby 

Those who are familiar with the pop­ular Nintendo video game “Super Smash Bros” know the character Kirby. For those who are not, Kirby is a pink, round creature from Dream Land who battles the cor­rupt King DeDeDe and his henchmen. 
Kirby has many unique abilities, such as turning himself into a brick and stealing the attributes of his opponents. Kirby is undoubtedly the best charac­ter in the Super Smash Bros game. 

In the ancient world great warriors and their exploits were remembered with an ode; a lyric poem of praise. 
The following is an ode to Kirby, my character of choice in the circus of our modern Rome. It consists of five stan­zas of ten lines each; paragraphs cor­respond to stanzas and lines are sepa­rated by a forward slash. 
O rosy sprite that doth dance ‘cross the stage! / Your stature and hue belie your great might / Your wide smile hides your warrior’s rage / No oppo­nent can best you in a fight / You float up above the battlefield / Until you strike at the perfect moment / Suddenly, you fall as a heavy brick / You are undaunted should a foe shield / For fighting fury it serves to foment / You counter with a well-placed punch or kick 
You fly up high with glowing scimitar / And come back down with a blue cut­ter wave / To escape an enemy must run far / Or with shield the cutter attack brave / In the end it matters not; victory / Shall come to the small, stub-by-limbed ball / You guard the edge with well-timed attacks / Down and A putting enemies away / You wave and say “Hiiii” as opponents fall / You resume fighting with more foes to slay 
Should your stratagems fail or moves fall short / You adopt the power of another / You inhale a foe like a tasty torte / Then don a cap to look like each other / Now you expertly wield this power / Assaulting your foes with their own techniques / Leaving wanton destruction in your wake / Perhaps you snatch up a fire flower / And burn each enemy, those foolish freaks / Counter attacks come but you never break 
Fight on, oh pink orb, smash all your foes / Transform yourself into a brick and fall / In this dense form you deal quite heavy blows / Those below flee in fear, but you crush all / For you antici­pated their escape / you fell where they would be, not where they were / Having outsmarted all your enemies / You regain your belov’d spherical shape / You punch and punch and your arms are a blur / Challengers you kick and triumph you seize 
You know well the tactics of Master Hand / When you face him you dodge and strike and dodge / You control the fight; Kirby in command / Between you and the floor that hand will lodge / Unable to escape your bold assault / Now all that’s left are his final death throes / A quite familiar situation / In ultimate triumph you thus exalt / You emerge the greatest of all heroes / Yet the next day you must fight once again 

Christian Myers 
News Production Editor 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 

What do we owe Indiana? 
In college and at Notre Dame especially, students focus on promoting themselves. Pick me for that leadership role, pick up my résumé, see how well rounded and accomplished I am. But in what context? 
The appearance of Evan Bayh, a former U.S. senator and Indiana governor who spoke here Thursday for the Notre Dame Forum, indicates the University’s ties to the state, at least from a top-level leadership standpoint. 
But what about students? What do Indiana politics have to do with us? 
Bayh’s lecture Thursday night focuses on the broader 
fled the state (the General Assembly’s rules require at least two-thirds of a chamber’s members to be present for a quorum), who knows what will happen next. 
Seriously, who knows? Most of us certainly don’t. 
One of the bills under fire from Democrats has to do with the agreements entered by unions and employers that would require all employee’s to pay collective-bar­gaining fees. Most likely no current Notre Dame student is part of a union. 
The other bills, if passed, would bring “historic changes to education, such as increasing the number of charter schools and creating tax-funded vouchers for private school tuition” and change the formula for funding public schools, according to a Feb. 23 story in the South Bend Tribune. What does it matter to us, since we’re at a pri­vate university? Why should we care? 
The University and student government frequently stress the importance of community relations. As a college community, we examine this on a local level — engaging law enforcement in discussions about student arrests, serving the community through the Robinson Center and collaborating on larger projects like Eddy Street Commons and Innovation Park. 
But we are part of a larger community as well. Shake­ups in Indiana’s government will affect Notre Dame, whether it’s state funding cuts for research or tax hikes or industry in cities like South Bend getting pulled into labor disputes. If it’s too difficult to get research off the ground and too expensive to live in a small city in Indiana, our university becomes less attractive to potential faculty. 
We’ve heard it before: Be a good citizen of South Bend, shovel your sidewalks — that kind of thing. They’re good sentiments, but they are ultimately hollow, since most of 

us know we’ll move on from Indiana after our four years here. 
So what do we owe Indiana? Our attention? A cursory glance at headlines? Even that’s dif­ficult, of course, when the only Tribune we can easily read on campus comes from Chicago, not South Bend. 
Bayh said Thursday night that he did not run for reelec­tion in 2010 because partisanship had become too promi­nent in government. The current turmoil in the state of Indiana only proves this observation to be true. 
“I hope we focus on the fact that we’re Americans first and not Republicans or Democrats first,” Bayh said. 
Again, what does this mean for Notre Dame students? Maybe politicians could learn from Bayh’s ideas, but do students hold strong partisan beliefs? 
Bayh’s talk expressed concern not only about a growing divide between Republicans and Democrats, but also about a growing gap between informed and uninformed citizens. 
“All of us need to know more about what’s going on to make informed decisions about who’s going to lead us,” he said. 
Notre Dame is a part of a bigger city, state and nation. It even plays a role in the globalization Bayh addressed. 
However much we just want to drop in, pick up the tools and skills and memories we want and then ditch the Bend for the rest of the world, Notre Dame is not simply some oasis, floating free of the real world and its problems. 
themes of national politics and globalization. But his visit to campus coincided with a shake-up in Indiana state politics, making his message and his experience in Indiana poli­tics especially relevant. 
With a dozen labor and education bills up in the air now that Indiana Democrats have 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
For the free market system in the NBA 
On Wednesday, Rick Reilly wrote an article for ESPN about the recent trade of Carmelo Anthony from Denver to New York, criticizing Melo essentially for leaving Denver for New York to play with his buddies — the same criticism that Lebron, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh received last sum­mer. Reilly whined that superstar players shouldn’t be allowed to leave cities like Denver for cities like New York, calling it unfair. The assessment of “unfair” relies on the underlying assumption that there should be parity among the teams because franchises like Denver will fold if there’s not. 
Why is that underlying assumption a good one? 
It’s not. I’m no economics major, but the ideas of revenue sharing and protecting the weak for the sake of equality effectively make the league socialist. A parity-based league is not necessarily a bad thing, as can be seen with the NFL. The EPL and NCAA, however, prove that a league can be successful without parity. Neither system is necessarily bet­ter. What I take issue with is fans’ sense of entitlement to superstars that are only there in the first place because of league rules designed to promote parity. I believe the draft should be the only parity-encouraging system in place. After that, franchises should exist on their own. In free agency, if an athlete is content with his compensation, he should play where he wants. And if Denver fans aren’t content with their basketball team, they should follow someone else. And if the Denver franchise needs revenue sharing and equity-promoting rules to survive, they shouldn’t exist in the first place. This is how capitalism and the free market system work (does Rick Reilly hate America? I don’t know). At least with social programs like welfare and social security, there is an aspect of humanity and morality that can somewhat justify their existence. But if basketball teams in Denver, Cleveland and elsewhere contribute only to the malcontent of their athletes, what’s the point? Rick Reilly isn’t entitled to have a local team to root for, much less a top five player on that team. Nobody is. Stop complaining. 
Peter Schanzer 
sophomore off-campus Feb. 23 


Save the sharks. Please recycle The Observer. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The most wasted of all days is one without laughter.” 
e.e. Cummings 
U.S. poet 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“If you would be a real seeker after truth, it is necessary that at least once in your life you doubt, as far as possible, all things.” 
René Descartes French philosopher 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Friday, February 25, 2011 page 9 
Normativity 
Imagine that you want to go to Chicago. 
You cannot, of course, simply will your­self into the Windy City: there are steps that you must first take. Since you are at the University of Notre Dame, you know that if you want to go to Chicago, you ought to drive west. 
Your life — indeed, everyone’s life — is ruled by such rules: if you want to end your hunger, you ought to eat, and if you want to end your exhaustion, you ought to sleep. If Daniel Sportiello you want to arrive at class on time, you 

Bound
ought to wake an 

Variables 
hour beforehand, and if you want to impress your teaching assistant, you ought to read the material before you arrive. If you want to achieve this, more generally, you ought to do that. 
Kant called such rules hypothetical imperatives: they command you — but only so long as you happen to have the rel­evant wants. Like all imperatives, they are normative: they indicate not what you will do but, rather, what you ought to do. But, in this case, what you ought to do — that is, your means — is determined by what you want to achieve — that is, your end: you will not achieve a given end, the world being as it is, unless you take a certain means. And your motivation for taking said means just is your desire to achieve said end. Should your end change, the rel­evant hypothetical imperative no longer applies to you. 
You might expect that all imperatives are thus hypothetical — but Kant would remind you of what most take to be a cru­cial exception: morality. You ought not lie. You ought not steal. You ought not kill. None of these imperatives references a condition. While hypothetical imperatives satisfy your wants, moral rules command you regardless of your wants. 
Kant called such rules categorical imperatives — and they should, he thought, strike you as deeply mysterious. What rule could command you, could determine your behavior and yet not itself be determined by your wants? Set aside, for a moment, the problem of motivation. Even assuming your willingness to obey moral commands, what could determine their content, if not your wants? Why, for example, ought you refrain from deceit, from theft, from murder rather than from, say, driving? 
A categorical imperative, Kant answered, is like any imperative a rule. But unlike a hypothetical imperative, what a categorical imperative commands you to do cannot be determined by anything out­side itself — that is, by your wants. Yet what a categorical imperative commands you to do also cannot be determined by nothing at all, for then it would just be an arbitrary demand, not a rule. What a cate­gorical imperative commands you to do must, therefore, be determined by the cat­egorical imperative itself — that is, by the very fact that it is an imperative. 
A categorical imperative, in other words, commands only itself. It is the imperative that you always act according to impera­tives, the rule that you ought always to act according to rules — or, in Kant’s words, the law that you “act only in accordance with that maxim through which you can at the same time will that it become a univer­sal law.” The moral rules of your acquain­tance are derived from this categorical imperative as special cases. 
Consider, for example, the moral rule against lying. Imagine, Kant suggests, that you are tempted to borrow money with the promise to repay even though you know that you will not be able to do so. That you ought not do so is immediately clear. If all made such lying promises when it suited them, no one would trust the word of another and the very institution of promis­ing would collapse, thus making impossi­ble the lie that you are tempted to make. If you lie, in other words, you will be presup­posing a rule against lying, even as you violate it. And this — making yourself the single exception to a rule to be truthful — is clearly a violation of the categorical imperative, the rule that you always act according to rules. 
What a categorical imperative com­mands you to do is clear. But what motive could you ever have to obey it? Well, Kant answers, all action is for the sake of some end, and usually the end is the satisfaction of some want. But while hypothetical imperatives command according to the satisfaction of wants, categorical impera­tives do not. If moral action is even possi­ble, if it is possible to obey a categorical imperative, there must be an end that is, mysteriously, not outside you at all. That is not the satisfaction of some want. 
The motive for following the categorical imperative, then, is just you yourself — that is, the rational actor, the human being. While all other ends have value only relative to some want, human beings are the very condition for that relative value — and thus the only ends with absolute value. In Kant’s words, you ought “so act that you use humanity, whether in your own person or in the person of any other, always at the same time as an end, never merely as a means.” And this is, Kant insists, just another perspective on the categorical imperative — as is clear from the example of lying. When you make a false promise, you treat other human beings, the very conditions for rel­ative value, as though they themselves had only relative value, as mere means to your ends. 
The full extent of the categorical imper­ative, Kant argues, only becomes clear from considering these two perspectives together. Assuming that morality is even possible, you ought always act lawfully — and do so out of respect for human beings, including yourself. And thus you must act so always to respect human beings as law­givers onto themselves — as both rulers and subjects in a “kingdom of ends.” 
You must, in other words, act always as a citizen — as someone with rights com­manding respect, respecting the rights of others in turn. 
By this point, you have probably over­shot Chicago. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his third year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. Listen to his radio show on WVFI at 1 p.m. on Thursdays. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Remembering Duerson 
In light of Dave Duerson’s passing, former Notre Dame football superstar and member of the Board of Trustees, it’s clear that Notre Dame should lead the way in finding ways to make football more safe for our players. There is no question that the sport has made a tremendous impact on Notre Dame and the greater community, but at what risk to the players? With Duerson’s death, he was clearing making a plea for someone to investigate how repeated head trauma through football led to his mental decline. I think most of us realize there is a price these players are paying, but at what overall cost? A question many are asking is if Duerson had chronic trau­matic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease found posthumously in about 20 retired players and a disease linked to depression, cognitive impairment and occa­sionally suicide. Before committing suicide by shooting himself in the chest, Duerson left a handwritten note as well as a text message, asking that his brain be donated to the NFL’s brain bank. 
As a Feb. 23rd New York Times article mentioned, “Dave Duerson was a leader, a doer and a giver.” Notre Dame owes it to Dave and other players who have sacrificed much to give Notre Dame glory, to investigate the effects of repeated head trauma and ways we can make the often-brutal sport less costly to our players. What makes Notre Dame special is that we are a community that cares about each other. It’s time to address this pertinent issue before this tragic situation repeats itself. 
Karen Schneider Kirner 
employee Campus Ministry Feb. 24 



Something for everyone 
Allow me to entertain a hypothetical notion here. You. Saturday. 6 p.m., Stepan Center. You’ve just indulged in a dinner of fine Filipino cuisine and are settling back satisfied, wondering what this Fiestang thing is all about. The lights go down, a clanging gong sounds and chanting men clad in loincloths and ceremonial blankets take to the stage and begin to dance. One thing is abundantly clear: this ain’t America’s Got Talent, son. 
As someone of far-too-European heritage, Fiestang has served as my entry point into the novel world of Filipino culture. After seeing the show last year, I decided it was something I needed to be a part of. Now, just before showtime a year later, it’s a decision I’m glad I made. Amid all the kind and welcoming members of FASO, I’m gaining a great picture of a colorful culture that can swing from wild and fun-loving to refined and elegant at the drop of a hat, and do it all without taking anything too seriously. Just among the dances I’m in, I get to perform a Polynesian-flavored num­ber in which the members pound themselves and each other with coconut halves to form the rhythm, a wild chanting dance meant to invoke the movements of a rooster and an elegant waltz? At least, a waltz as elegant as can be while the performers bat at each other with slippers! It’s crazy fun, and this is just a tiny part of the incredibly varied program. (And did I mention the food? The food is SO GOOD.) 
So, if you have the time on Saturday, come to Stepan at 5:30 p.m. and get a taste of Filipino culture, no experience necessary! You’ll be glad you did. 
Michael Nokes 
sophomore Stanford Hall Feb. 24 


Fiestang promises coconut bikinis 
I guess we can say goodbye to any vestige of moral decency around here. 
Just last Tuesday, I was heading back to my dorm after waiting 20 minutes in line to get my six-inch Subway meatball marina for dinner, when I saw a group of young, good-looking Filipino men walking out of Washington Hall in nothing but — what else? — coconut bikinis. Immediately at the sight, I knew that I had been rendered incapable of enjoying any of my meatball marinara that night. If only they knew how scandalized I was. 
Come to think of it, I’ve seen pictures of these coconut-bikini boys on posters around campus, (can SAO even approve posters that flaunt such near-nudity?), advertising a Filipino cultural dinner show this Saturday night called Fiestang. 
I mean, yeah, there will be lots of cool traditional and modern Filipino dances. Yeah, the profits go to a charity in the Philippines that serves the terminally ill. Yeah, it’s the one time in the year you can try delicious Filipino food at Notre Dame. 
But seriously, coconut bikinis? 

How can we even begin to talk about loving our neighbor, when we can’t even learn to love ourselves enough as to put on a shirt? 
I once thought we had morals, but I guess I was wrong. 
What degenerate will be at Stepan Center this Saturday night at 5:30 p.m.? 
What supporter of profligacy will buy a ticket from LaFortune Box Office for eight dollars pre-sale? 
Who, devoid not just of moral decency but of any simulation of moral decency, wants to learn about other cultures and, overall, have a good time at Fiestang? 
I will. Sounds like my kind of show. 
Satire aside, Fiestang promises to be a fun event. Get your tickets at the LaFortune Box Office soon because they’re going fast! 
Michael Mercurio 
sophomore Morrissey Hall Feb. 24 
The Observer 





Scene
page 10 Friday, February 25, 2011 
Best Picture: It’s no coinci­dence that this year’s best-reviewed film has gone home with almost all of this year’s Best Picture hardware. That trend should continue as “The Social Network” is likely to win this year’s Best Picture award (despite the fact that “The King’s Speech” has curi­ously become the favorite amongst experts). 
Both impeccably made and engrossing from start to finish, “The Social Network” is a movie that years from now may be remembered as the best window into Mark Zuckerberg and Facebook’s origins that we might ever get. What the film does here is, for lack of a better comparison (although you can read into this as much as you want), tear down a man high up on a pedestal, strip him of all his fame and glory and tell a story about the real him; beyond everything that we know and everything that he cares to admit, quite like “Citizen Kane” told the story of William Randolph Hearst. 
What Picture Should Win: It’s a battle between historical rele­vance and flash in deciding between “The Social Network” and “Black Swan.” While “Black Swan” is tied for my best film of the year, “The Social Network” is near flawless from top to bot­tom and add to that the rele­vance of it all with Facebook ris­ing to new heights in 2010, Zuckerberg stepping into the spotlight for all to see and win-ning Time Magazine’s Person of the Year award and the possibil­ity of Facebook’s IPO. The equa­tion just adds up perfectly, and no stuttering king or swan queen is going to stop that. 

Best Picture You’ve Never Heard of: “Exit Through the Gift Shop” tells the story of Theirry Guetta, an eccentric French shopkeeper who sets out to meet and film the greatest and most anonymous graffiti artist in the world — Banksy. Banksy’s work has earned him a global reputa­tion, as his work can be seen on walls from post-hurricane New Orleans to the separation barri­er on the Palestinian West Bank. 
By sheer fate Guetta meets and befriends Banksy and is even granted permission to film the artists, however, Banksy soon turns the camera back on Guetta. What ensues is a thrilling hall-of-mirrors docu­mentary about the nature of art, what is art and who the hell are we, or anyone for that matter, to say what can pass as art. As Banksy best put it, “It’s basically the story of how one man set out to film the un-filmable. And failed.” 
This little Sundance favorite was released too early in the year too catch the attention that it deserves. However, it is likely to win, or at least should win, Best Documentary, and on top of that, it might just be the best film of the year. 
Best Director: This award usually goes hand-in-hand with the Best Picture award and although it is time that the Academy pay recognition to the sheer brilliance of Darren Aronofsky, who will have his moment in the spotlight when his lead actress, Natalie Portman, accepts her Best Actress award for “Black Swan.” 
Instead, David Fincher will be the one giving the speech before he has to come back out again and join in accepting the Best Picture award for “The Social Network.” 
Best Actor and Actress: Both of these awards are no-brainers since both Natalie Portman (“Black Swan”) and Colin Firth (“The King’s Speech”) have won basically every award you can win. If you’re looking for a dark horse (and I mean really looking for one) then you might want to look out for Annette Bening, who gave a great performance in “The Kids Are Alright,” which was this year’s best reviewed comedy. 
Best Supporting Actor and Actress: Melissa Leo and Christian Bale appear poised to give “The Fighter” a clean sweep of the supporting actor categories. Both outshined Mark Walberg and Amy Adams, and not to mention they’ve both had great careers thus far. Of the two, Bale’s performance is bar-none the best supporting per­formance this year, but Leo has the IOU factor going her way in that she’s very respected throughout the industry but doesn’t yet have an Oscar to show for it. 
In the end though, Jacki Weaver, whose performance in the Australian gem of a crime thriller, “Animal Kingdom” was nothing short of spectacular. IOU’s often mean more than merit however, and Leo will probably get the golden stat­uette. 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 


Scene
Friday, February 25, 2011 page 11 

Here’s a not-very-odd prediction for a kind-of-odd reason: James Franco is going to win Best Actor, and not because he sin­glehandedly carried a very solid movie about self-amputation (which he did), but because he once played a stoner. 
This formula for success is simple. Just play a person who actively smokes marijuana or is heavily affiliat­ed with marijuana culture in a fea­ture film, and then continue to make movies. You will eventually win an Academy Award. You may have to wait up to 20 years for this to occur. 
The trend has been around since at least the early 70s with Jack Nicholson’s win for “One Flew Over The Cuckoo’s Nest” after sparking up a few years earlier in “Easy Rider.” This pattern has seen a major uptick in recent years. In fact, you can go all the way back to 2004 before one of the big four winners hadn’t at one point played a fan of the sticky icky. 
Starting with the 2010 awards, it goes: Jeff Bridges (stoned in “The Big Lebowski,” won for Crazy Heart), Sean Penn (“Fast Times at Ridgemont High”/“Milk”), Tilda Swinton (“The Beach”/“Michael Clayton”), Forest Whitaker (“Fast Times at Ridgemont High”/“The Last King of Scotland”), Reese Witherspoon (“Freeway”/“Walk The Line”), Jamie Foxx (“Ray”/“Ray”), Sean Penn (“Fast Times at Ridgemont High”/“Mystic River”). 

Past that, examples are intermittant, but still exist: Benicio Del Toro (“Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas”/“Traffic”), Nicolas Cage (“Fast Times at Ridgemont High”/ “Leaving Las Vegas”) Jack Nicholson (“Easy Rider”/“As Good As It Gets”), Diane Keaton (“Annie Hall”/“Annie Hall”), Dustin Hoffman (“Rain Man”/“Midnight Cowboy”) and Jon Voight(“Coming Home”/“Midnight Cowboy”). 
This seems like more than just a weird coincidence. 
By my estimation, this is happening because: Actors no longer see taking a stoner role as career-limiting, weed is now seen as comic or even normal rather than subversive and “Fast Times at Ridgemont High” is a movie. 
The last reason is pretty straightforward 
— by sheer force of coincidence, excellent casting or Cameron Crowe’s probable pact with the devil, “Fast Times’” ensemble cast has spawned something like a dozen successful actors, including three who won Academy Awards. Cage, Whitaker and Penn all got their starts in this movie and its popularity launched superstar careers that allowed them to eventually pick up Oscar-bait roles such as Harvey Milk (“Milk”) and Ben Sanderson (“Leaving Las Vegas”), as well as second-home-bait roles such as “The Guy In Wicker Man.” 
The first two reasons are a bit more interesting — consider the movie “Midnight Cowboy,” made in 1969, which was made amidst worries that it would sully the careers of Voight and Hoffman, specifically because of their roles as gigo­los and drug users. Why these same wor­ries did not apply to the production of “Little Fockers,” I will never know. 
Anyway, this ended up not being the case, primarily because “Midnight Cowboy” was a good movie. But, the same thing happened with a number of the older examples on the list, such as Nicholson in “Easy Rider.” Until the new class of stoner-stars that came in with “Fast Times,” actors worried that playing someone who used the marijuana in a film but was not a bad guy would force them into an entire career of playing nothing but bleary eyed losers, or ‘counter-culture icons,’ if you prefer. 
The success of the “Fast Times” actors and “Fast Times” itself seemed to open the floodgates for all kinds of stoner come­dies, and a crop of just-starting-out actors who felt that with this example, they were safe. They wouldn’t get pigeonholed as druggies by filling these zonked out roles. 
It has even come to the point where for­mer Oscar winners will pick up druggie roles, statuette in hand. Adrian Brody, who won for “The Pianist” in 2003, just recently played a psychotic drug dealer in the comedy “HIGH School.” It’s just no longer a big deal in Hollywood to jump from serious role to drug comedy to action movie. It might even be the reason some of the bigger actors take these kinds of roles, simply to prove that they don’t just go from serious dramatic role to serious dramatic role. This, of course, still does not explain “Little Fockers,” but I digress. 
Many big name actors who started out in the late 80s or early 90s now have a stoner film in their early credits, including A-listers like Brad Pitt, Jeremy Piven, Jared Leto and Jake Gyllenhaal. It seems like it’s simply a matter of time before some (or all) of these people win some­thing, Franco included. 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Coleman Collins at ccollins6@nd.edu 


By JORDAN GAMBLE 
Scene Editor 

Under the tinfoil-armadillo ceiling of Stepan Center, half a dozen students laid down several giant bamboo sticks in neat rows, cranked up music and started prac­ticing their routine, a combination of hip-hop dance integrated with traditional Filipino choreography on Tuesday night. 
This hip-hop-infused version of Tinikling, the Phillipines’ national dance, is just one act of many in Saturday’s Fiestang Filipino, the Filipino American Student Organization’s (FASO) annual celebration of Filipino culture. 
FASO is the oldest ethnic club on cam­pus. 
“A lot of tradition goes into what we do,” Alexa Arastoo, a junior and one of Fiestang’s co-commissioners, said. She and Randall Ang, also a junior, handle directing and producing duties. 
The core group of organizers starts plan­ning the show’s thematic elements as early as the summer. This year’s theme is “Kwento,” or story. 
“We’re telling the Filipino creation story … presenting it to people who have never heard of it,” Ang said. 
After a traditional Filipino dinner at 6 p.m., the performers take the stage for 24 different acts, a mix of songs, traditional dances and modern interpretations. 
About 30 Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students are dues-paying members of FASO, but the organization’s reach is much wider than the two campuses. Arastoo and Ang said they keep in contact with the Filipino-American Association of Michiana (FAAM) all year in order to reach out the greater South Bend community, which has been an invaluable resource. 
“People from South Bend are very knowledgeable about Filipino culture and in touch with their heritage,” Arastoo said. 
FASO used to advertise Fiestang at Sari Sari, a Filipino grocery store in Mishawaka, but that building was destroyed in a fire in April 2010. Randall and Arastoo said that though they’ve lost their outlet, they still feel they’ve kept up their tradition of bringing in the larger Filipino community. About half of acts in this year’s show come from non-student performers. 
The other half of the acts — 11 dances and one song in Tagalog, the language of the Phillipines — are performed by a mix of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students that come from all ethnic backgrounds. 

The Asian American Association (AAA) joins in, as do per­formance groups Project Fresh and Step ND. 
Only one student had ever per­formed the tradi­tional dances, so for the rest of the student perform­ers, Filipino and non-Filipino alike, 

it was a learning experience. 
“All of our club learned more about Filipino culture here than they did before, especially the dancing,” Arastoo said. Eating Filipino food at home is one thing, she explained, but learning the traditional dances is more difficult for those students who don’t live in larger cities like Chicago, which have larger Filipino populations. 
“Lots of kids don’t have access to that kind of cultural depth,” Arastoo said. 
The Fiestang participants pass down the choreography year by year to a new gener­ation of performers. 
“We learn the choreography but also what it means,” Ang said. 
Now in its 17th year, Fiestang long ago outgrew South Dining Hall, then LaFortune Student Center, and now with more than 300 guests and a dinner-theater style set up, it fills up Stepan Center. 
Ang said they expect about 400 people to turn out for the show, including students, their families, people from the larger South Bend-Mishawaka community and high school seniors visiting as part of the Spring Visitation program through Undergraduate Admissions. 
Proceeds from the event go to Madre de Amor, the first hospice program started in the Phillipines. 



Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
On campus 
What: Fiestang FilipinoWhere: Stepan CenterWhen: Saturday, Feb. 26, dinner at 6 p.m., show begins at 7 p.m.How much: $8 in advance at Lafortune Box Office, $10 at the door Learn more: nd.edu/~faso 

SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 
page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Friday, February 25, 2011 
NBA 


Cavs acquire Davis, Harangody before trade deadline 
Associated Press 
INDEPENDENCE, Ohio — Byron Scott never dreamed he’d be coaching Baron Davis a sec­ond time. For a while, he wasn’t sure they’d ever speak again. 
Once together in New Orleans, the hard-headed, old-school coach and volatile player clashed — about everything. Scott and Davis rarely saw things eye to eye, leading to a messy separation that seemed irreparable. They’ve supposedly mended their relationship. 
The Cavaliers better hope so. 
One of the NBA’s top point guards when motivated, Davis was acquired by the rebuilding Cavaliers along with an unpro­tected 2011 first-round draft pick on Thursday from the Los Angeles Clippers for guard Mo Williams and forward Jamario Moon. 
With the league’s worst record, the Cavs, who are trying to regain their footing without superstar LeBron James, now own two first-round and two second-round picks in June’s draft. They plan to use those selections to replenish their ros­ter and regain relevancy. 
“Our organization is excited,” Scott said. “We’re ready to get started.” 
Scott and Davis are starting over. 
When the two were with the Hornets, Scott and Davis butted heads. Byron didn’t like Baron and vice versa. At one point, Scott banned Davis’ personal trainer from the Hornets’ train­ing facility. While the rest of the team stretched indoors before practice, Davis and his trainer worked outside in the parking lot. 
Eventually, Scott pushed for Davis to get traded to Golden State, a move that led to the Hornets drafting All-Star Chris Paul in 2005. 
Scott thought he and Davis would remain distant, but two years ago they patched up their differences in a parking lot before a preseason game. Davis told Scott he had written him a letter to apologize, but decided to say he was sorry in person. 
“He wanted to apologize for some of the things that hap­pened in New Orleans,” Scott said. “He felt that he understood now that I was just trying to make him a better basketball player. I can be tough on guys at times. I don’t think he accepted it at that particular time, but he said he’s matured.” 
Scott was moved by Davis’ heartfelt gesture. 
“I was very touched. I was speechless,” he said. “My wife was sitting next to me and I was like, ‘Wow, I can’t believe that he came to me and apologized for everything and said some of the things he said.’ He gave me a big hug and said, ‘I love you and thank you for everything.’ I was shocked. From that point on, the relationship has been very good.” 
The Cavs, who with owner Dan Gilbert’s blessing are taking on Davis’ $29 million contract over the next two years, need that bond to remain strong. 
They’re counting on Davis to come in, play well and be a good citizen. They’d also like the 31­year-old, who was ejected in the closing seconds of the Clippers’ recent game in Cleveland, to help develop young guard Ramon Sessions. 
Davis comes with a reputation for being difficult. He showed up for training camp this season out of shape. He can’t be happy about being uprooted from his hometown to join the NBA’s worst team. Just last weekend in L.A., he was tossing a pass through the sunroof of a car to Clippers teammate Blake Griffin in the All-Star slam dunk con­test. 
Now, Davis is headed to Cleveland — not exactly known for its beaches or nightlife. 
Scott trusts Davis will embrace his new situation. 
“I hope he looks at this as an opportunity again to put all the doubters and change every­body’s mind over the type of guy he is and type of player he is,” Scott said. “This is a fresh start for him.” 
The Cavaliers expect Davis to arrive Friday and take his physi­cal. 
Scott said he had no reserva­tions about adding Davis to the roster. The first-year coach and Cavs general manager Chris Grant had several conversations in the past few days about bringing on Davis and came to the consensus that it would help the team. 
“The second chance of getting to coach him now that we know each other and we’ve put all that other stuff under the bridge, I’m excited about it,” Scott said. 
Grant was aggressive trying to improve the Cavs, who haven’t had much to celebrate since James bolted last summer as a free agent for Miami. They’ve been ravaged by injuries and recently set a record by losing 26 straight games, tying the NFL’s Tampa Bay Buccaneers for the longest skid in pro sports history. 
Now armed with two high draft picks — odds are both will be in the Top 10 — and a $14 million trade exception, the Cavs and their fans have some hope. 

Scott credits Gilbert for put­ting a premium on winning. 
“I’ve never been around an owner that’s sole existence right now on earth is to win,” Scott said. “He doesn’t care what it costs him. It’s unbelievable to be around a guy who has that type of conviction.” 
Grant spoke with multiple teams about a variety of deals but made only one other move, sending a second-round pick in 2013 to Boston for rookie for­ward Luke Harangody and first-year center Semih Erden. 
The Clippers are taking on Williams’ $9.3 million contract this season. Moon’s $3 million contract expires after this sea­son, and the Cavs were probably going to buy him out. 
Williams is getting another fresh start. Acquired by the Cavs before the 2008 season from Milwaukee, Williams was deeply troubled by James’ decision to leave. He’s battled injuries all season, but the Clippers are confident he can make them better. 
“Mo has experience where he can control the game for us and get guys in the right spots,” said coach Vinny Del Negro. “He’s been in big games, he’s a very good free throw shooter and he makes big shots. And that’s what we needed. He was the right fit for us.” 
NFL 




Outspoken Ryan guarantees Super Bowl ring 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Rex Ryan is at it again. 
Brimming with confidence after his team reached the AFC championship game the past two seasons, the outspo­ken New York Jets coach has promised a Super Bowl win next season. 
“I believe this is the year we’re going to do it,” he said. “I believe this is the year we’re going to win the Super Bowl. The fact is, I thought we’d win it the first two years. 
“I guarantee we’ll win it this year.” 
The Jets are the only team to play in a conference champi­onship game each of the past two years, something Ryan mentioned more than once while speaking to reporters Thursday at the NFL scouting combine. Ryan said his team made major strides last sea­son, and he believes it is natu­ral to expect the Jets to take the next step. 
“I care what our organiza­tion believes and what our fans believe,” he said. “If we can improve a little more, then why not us?” 
Ryan made headlines when he made the Jets’ divisional playoff game against the Indianapolis Colts a “personal” matchup between himself and Colts quarterback Peyton Manning. The Jets prevailed 17-16. The next week, he pulled out the personal card again, this time calling out New England Patriots coach Bill Belichick, and the Jets won 28-21. 
Ryan wasn’t as brash head­ing into New York’s AFC Championship matchup with Pittsburgh, and the Steelers defeated New York 24-19. 
Thursday’s 17-minute ses­sion was vintage Ryan. He talked for more than five min­utes before taking a question, often drawing laughs from the media. 
Jets general manager Mike Tannenbaum doesn’t mind his coach speaking up. 
“Anyone that’s down or feel­ing bad about themselves, spend a couple hours with him and I promise you’ll laugh a few times,” Tannenbaum said. “He’s a great football coach. There’s a lot been said about his personality, his guarantees, but at the end of the day, we got to judge him by his record. We’re lucky to have him.” 
This isn’t the first time Ryan has promised a title. During last season’s training camp, Ryan was asked to sign his team’s logo sticker on the back of ESPN’s tour bus. 


Instead of just signing his home record last season was dis-name, the brash Ryan wrote: appointing, and he quipped that “Soon to be Champs.” their No. 3 defensive ranking 
Ryan added that the team’s 5-3 wasn’t up to their standards. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT  I woke up again this morning  
FOR SALE  FOR RENT  RENTAL:  NOTICES  WANTED  And wouldn't you know it... pouring rain  
House for rent for  I went and burned a pot of coffee  
HOUSE FOR SALE  OFF-CAMPUS Housing.  graduation/JPW/weddings,football,  If you or someone you care about  ND/SMC couple  And like us I poured it down the  
etc.  has been sexually assaulted,  drain  
$380,000  we can help. For more information,  in Dallas, Texas  Cause I didn't know I needed you  
3 bedroom/3.5 bath builders show- Best luxury options  Perfect location- visit Notre Dame’s website:  so  
case home is loaded with thou­ http://csap.nd.edu  seeks full-time nanny  And letting you go was wrong  
sands in extras that you must see  at Dublin Village, Irish Crossings,  right next to the new Eddy Street  ———————————————  And baby I know you got your radio  
to believe.  Commons- UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't  for 15 months beginning  on  
Located just minutes from Notre  Oak Hill and North Shore Club.  go it alone. Notre Dame has many  So this is my my bad, come back  
Dame in a villa style community this  walk to everything- resources in place to assist you. If  June  song  
unbelievably beautiful ranch is cen- CES Property Management.  you or someone you love needs  I know I said I wouldn't miss you  
trally located to dining and shop- safe family oriented street.  confidential support or assistance,  2011.  But now I'm saying I'm a fool  
ping.  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819.  You're on the feel good side of leav- 
Call Ron at 574-261-0939 for more  Call 574-298-4206,  Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for  For more information, visit ND's  If interested, please email  ing  
information and to schedule a  website at: http://pregnancysup- And I'm the backside of a mule  
showing.  www.cespm.info  additional info and photos  port@nd.edu  hdawson1@hotmail.com.  -Darius Rucker  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Friday, February 25, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Marquette upsets UConn in overtime 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. — Darius Johnson-Odom scored nine of his 17 points in over­time Thursday night to lead Marquette to a 74-67 victory over No. 14 Connecticut, which played without coach Jim Calhoun on the bench. 
Jimmy Butler added 16 points for the Golden Eagles (17-11, 8-7 Big East), who tied the game at 59 with 5.3 sec­onds left on a drive by Johnson-Odom. 
Kemba Walker led the Huskies (20-7, 8-7) with 27 points but the junior guard missed fur shots and commit­ted one turnover in the extra period. 
It was the Huskies’ first game since the NCAA revealed its sanctions against the program over recruiting violations. Among the penal­ties was a suspension of Calhoun for next season’s first three Big East games. Calhoun was cited for failing to monitor and promote an atmosphere of compliance within his program. 
Calhoun left the team Wednesday to be with his family in New Hampshire fol­lowing the death of his sister-in-law on Monday. 
This was the 15th game that associate head coach George Blaney replaced Calhoun on the bench and Connecticut’s record in those games dropped to 7-8. 
The loss was the third in five games for the Huskies, who beat Marquette 76-68 in their earlier meeting this sea­son. 

Nine of Marquette’s 11 loss­es have been to ranked teams, and this looked to be No. 10 when the Huskies opened the second half with a 26-7 run to wipe out an 11-point halftime deficit. 
The Golden Eagles respond­ed with an 8-2 run that brought them to 51-49 with 
6:55 to play. 
There were two lead changes and three ties from there, including Johnson­Odom’s drive that tied it with 
5.3 seconds left. 
Walker missed a spin move as the regulation buzzer sounded. 
Johnson-Odom made one of two free throws and a jumper in the opening 40 seconds of the overtime to give Marquette the lead for good. 
His move down low followed by a jumper made it 70-65 with 1:12 left. Donnell Beverly missed two free throws for the Huskies and Dwight Buycks hit two for Marquette to make it 72-65 with 25 sec­onds left. 
Buycks had 13 points for Marquette, which desperately needed this win to enhance its chances for an at-large bid to the NCAA tournament. The Golden Eagles lost their 11 games by an average of 5.6 points with only one in double figures. This was their third win over a ranked opponent after wins over Notre Dame and Syracuse. 
MLB 



Wainwright out for 2011 


Associated Press 
Adam Wainwright’s season is over before it started. 
The St. Louis Cardinals ace learned Thursday that he will need surgery to replace a torn ulnar collateral ligament in his pitching elbow, an injury that usually take at least a year to recover from. 
“That’s a big guy to miss,” teammate Kyle Lohse said in Jupiter, Fla. “We still got to go out there and play. Nobody is going to feel sorry for us. We still have to go out there and do our jobs.” 
The 29-year-old right-hander experienced soreness toward the end of last season and did-n’t pitch in September. He threw to Mattingly says Padilla faces three to four weeks of rehabili­tation. 
Neither Mattingly nor Dodgers general manager Ned Colletti had a timetable for when Padilla, a projected reliever, would be ready to go to work. 
Padilla made 16 starts last season and finished 6-5 with a 
4.07 ERA. He also spent 68 games on the disabled list with elbow soreness and a neck injury. 
In Lakeland, Fla., Miguel Cabrera arrived at spring train­ing for the first time since he was arrested last week on sus­picion of drunken driving. He promptly apologized as Major 
League Baseball said he will 

t h e undergo
“[Wainwright]’s a big guy to 
Cardinals ’ treatment 
top hitter in miss. We still got to go out set up by 
batting there and play. Nobody is doctors practice adminis­
going to feel sorry for us. We 
Monday and tered by 
still have to go out there and
was set to management start his do our jobs.” and its play-t e a m ’ s ers’ union. spring train-The 27­
Kyle Lohse 
ing opener, year-old was 
Cardinals pitcher
then felt arrested 
soreness the following day and was sent back to St. Louis on Wednesday for an examination. 
Lewis Yocum then gave a sec­ond opinion to Wainwright, who won 19 games in 2009 and 20 last year to earn a second-place finish in NL Cy Young Award voting. 
St. Louis will search for a fifth starter to go along with Chris Carpenter, Lohse, Jaime Garcia and Jake Westbrook. 
“You’re losing an ace,” Cardinals general manager John Mozeliak said. “It’s not something you can replace overnight. I would also say we have four quality pitchers. It’s not exactly like we have no bul­lets left.” 
In Glendale, Ariz., pitcher Vicente Padilla is expected to return to the Dodgers’ spring training facility after having surgery on his right arm in Los Angeles. 
Doctors freed up a nerve that was trapped by a muscle. Dodgers manager Don Feb. 16 on 
suspicion of 
driving under the influence and resist­ing an officer without violence, both misdemeanors. He is set to be arraigned on March 16. 
“I am very sorry for what I have done,” Cabrera said through a translator. “I have worked hard for a period of time and I hope everyone for­gives me. All I ask for is for­giveness.” 
Cabrera didn’t deny that he had an alcohol problem, but said he was willing to undergo treatment and the Tigers have been working with doctors to find a solution. He refused to say he is an alcoholic. 
“I have it under control,” Cabrera said. “It was just a bad decision. I plan to continue with treatment. I made a mistake this time, and all I can do is continue treatment.” 
In Surprise, Ariz., Texas Rangers pitcher Brandon Webb threw 60-65 pitches off flat ground during a 17-minute ses­sion. Texas manager Ron Washington said the “ball was coming out of his hand real good.” 

The Rangers decided they wanted the right-hander to build up arm strength before getting back on a mound after his short bullpen session during the first workout a week ago. The former NL Cy Young Award winner hasn’t pitched in a major league game since the 2009 opener for Arizona because of shoulder surgery. 
Washington says Webb’s arm strength “is certainly picking up” and that he could throw off a mound Sunday or Monday “if everything keeps progressing.” Webb is set to throw again Friday. 
In Scottsdale, Ariz., the Colorado Rockies decided to be careful with right-hander Aaron Cook, who has missed three days of pitching and will miss his first scheduled start of spring training due to contin­ued setbacks from tightness in his shoulder and a bout with a stomach ailment. 
Cook entered spring training as Colorado’s No. 3 starter behind Ubaldo Jimenez and Jorge De La Rosa. 
“He is getting stretched out to long distance and will eventual­ly work his way back to the mound,” manager Jim Tracy said. “He had a couple of things he was battling early on and now he’s progressing.” 
In Sarasota, Fla., Baltimore Orioles second baseman Brian Roberts missed a second straight day of spring training workouts because of a stiff neck. 
Roberts woke up Wednesday morning with neck stiffness, but x-rays came back negative. The injury forced him to forgo practice on Wednesday, and he also skipped Thursday’s ses­sion. 
He said he’s feeling better, though he will continue treat­ment. Roberts said he hopes to be ready to return Friday or Saturday. He said he’s “just try­ing to get it calmed down.” 
A two-time All-Star, he was limited to 59 games last season because of injuries that includ­ed a herniated disk in his back and a concussion. He says his neck problem has nothing to do with the back injury. 
page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, February 25, 2011 
NBA 


Final day of trading still full of movement 
Associated Press 
Big bodies replaced big names on the final day of the NBA’s trading season. 
Boston traded starting center Kendrick Perkins, while Hasheem Thabeet, Nenad Krstic, Joel Przybilla and Nazr Mohammed were some other men in the middle who were dealt Thursday before the 3 
p.m. EST deadline. 
Baron Davis and Gerald Wallace were among the former All-Stars who moved on a busy day that featured plenty of action but no blockbusters like the ones that landed Carmelo Anthony in New York and Deron Williams in New Jersey earlier in the week. 
The Celtics traded Perkins, their starting center who had recently returned from a knee injury sustained in Game 6 of the NBA finals, along with Nate Robinson to Oklahoma City for Jeff Green, Krstic, a future first-round draft pick and cash. 
“He’s a team-first guy, plays great low-post defense,” Chicago coach Tom Thibodeau, a former Boston assistant, said of Perkins. “There may not be a better low-post defender in the league.” 
Boston also dealt backup big man Semih Erden and reserve swingman Marquis Daniels, an active day for the team that began the night percentage points ahead of the Miami Heat for the best record in the Eastern Conference. 
They get back Green, the power forward they drafted at No. 5 in 2007 but traded to Seattle in the deal for Ray Allen. But with Perkins gone, and Shaquille O’Neal and Jermaine O’Neal battling injuries most of the season, interior defense is now a question mark for a team that appeared to have loaded up on it this seasoon for a potential advantage against Miami. 
“I’m just as surprised as everyone else was,” the Heat’s LeBron James said. 

Wallace was an All-Star last season, but is owed about $21 million over the next two years, so the cost-cutting Bobcats have been shopping him. He’ll try to help the Trail Blazers reach the postseason. 
“He is just the sort of talent we were looking for,” Blazers owner Paul Allen said in a state­ment announcing the trade. “I’m sure our fans will embrace him and hopefully he can help us make some noise in the play­offs.” 
ers, presidents, general man­ ings.  
agers  and  PR  employees  “Our time together has been  
Thursday, attaching a copy of  devoted  to  establishing  an  
Cohen’s statement and saying:  atmosphere conducive to mean­ 
“We will have no further com­ ingful negotiations and,  of  
ment beyond this release and  course, matters of process and  
no  club  or  member of your  substance,”  Cohen  said  in  
organization should comment  Thursday’s statement. “I can  
beyond this release.”  report that throughout this  
After months of infrequent  extensive period the parties  
and sometimes contentious  engaged in highly focused, con- 
talks, the NFL and union have  structive dialogue concerning a  
been communicating regularly  host of issues covering both  
with Cohen present. The sides  economics and player-related  
went  more  than two months  conditions.”  
without any formal bargaining  Also Thursday, there was a  
until Feb. 5, the day before the  hearing before a U.S. District  
Super Bowl. The sides  met  Court judge in Minneapolis to  
again once the next week, then  discuss the NFLPA’s complaint  
called off a second meeting that  that the league improperly  
had been scheduled for the fol- negotiated TV deals. The union  
lowing day.  has accused the NFL of struc- 
The most recent CBA  was  turing  contracts  so  owners  
signed in 2006, but  owners  would be guaranteed money  
exercised an opt-out clause in  from networks  even  if there  
2008.  were a lockout in 2011 — while  
During  the  mediation  — not getting the most revenue  
which  was  voluntary  and  possible in other seasons, when  
AP  intended to spur progress  —  income  would  need  to  be  
Denver Broncos safety Brian Dawkins approaches meetings with the NFL for football labor negotiations  the sides have been talking  shared with players.  
Thursday in Washington. The discussions involved a federal mediator.  both  in  full  groups  and  in  It’s not clear when there will  
smaller subcommittee meet- be a decision in the case.  
Associated Press  on the all-important core issues that separate the parties.”  coach Jack del Rio said after the NFL meeting in  
WASHINGTON  — Just  as  While Cohen did not  name  Indianapolis. “So we got a little  
many expected would happen  those issues, the biggest stick- bit of information.”  
all along, labor negotiations  ing point all along has been  In other words: He and every- 
between the NFL and the play- how to divide about $9 billion  one else must wait to see what  
ers’ union  are  heading right  in annual revenues. Among the  happens next week. In addition  
down to the wire  — and possi­ other significant topics in nego­ to the return to mediation in  
bly beyond.  tiations: a rookie wage scale;  Washington, team owners are  
In the first real indication of  the owners’ push to expand the  scheduled to meet in nearby  
what’s been going  on  behind  regular season from 16 games  Chantilly, Va., Wednesday and  
closed doors, the federal medi­ to 18 while reducing the pre- Thursday.  
ator  overseeing  talks  said  season by two games; and ben­ “During  the  intervening  
Thursday the two sides made  efits for retired players.  weekend, the parties have been  
“some progress” during more  NFLPA executive director  asked by us to assess their cur- 
than 40 hours spread  over  DeMaurice Smith and the rest  rent positions,” Cohen said.  
seven consecutive days of face- of the union’s negotiating team  Saturday  was  one  of four  
to-face meetings, but “very  left the building at about 12:30  active players on the NFLPA’s  
strong differences remain.”  p.m., three hours after arriving.  executive committee present  
The league and union will  The NFL departed afterward.  Thursday, joined by Denver  
resume mediation Tuesday, less  “Just continue talking, man  Broncos safety Brian Dawkins,  
than 72 hours before the old  — that’s what we’re doing,”  and Kansas City Chiefs line- 
collective bargaining agree- Indianapolis Colts center Jeff  backer Mike Vrabel and guard  
ment is set to expire. If there’s  Saturday said as he got into a  Brian Waters. Nine of that com- 
no new deal in place by the end  car.  “I  think  ownership  — mittee’s 11 members participat­ 
of next Thursday, the union  everybody  — needs to know  ed at some point during these  
thinks owners will move to lock  that we’re all committed to it  seven days of talks; union pres- 
out players, threatening the  and committed to getting some­ ident Kevin Mawae and New  
2011 season. The NFL has said,  thing done.”  Orleans Saints quarterback  
however,  that  the  deadline  Members of both groups now  Drew Brees did not.  
could be extended.  head to Indianapolis for the  No NFL team owners attend- 
George Cohen, director of the  NFL’s annual scouting combine  ed the talks in Washington.  
Federal  Mediation  and  for draft prospects; the league  Cohen asked both parties to  
Conciliation Service, released a  briefed  general  managers,  keep quiet about the mediation,  
statement shortly before noon  coaches and other team offi­ and  union  lawyer  Richard  
Thursday, his first public com­ cials for 45 minutes Thursday  Berthelsen said Thursday that  
ments since he began working  about what would happen if the  gag order is still in effect.  
with  Commissioner  Roger  CBA does expire, while the  All Smith would say  as  he  
Goodell,  NFL  Players  union  speaks  to  agents  on  walked  toward  the  union’s  
Association executive director  Friday.  headquarters was: “We’ll see  
DeMaurice Smith and their  “Basically, it was about where  you all next week.”  
negotiating teams last week.  we are, where we hope to get  Seeking  to  keep  a  lid  on  
“At bottom,  some  progress  and, in case (a new CBA) does­ what’s happening in the talks,  
was made,” Cohen said, “but  n’t get there, scenarios that will  the  NFL  sent  an  e-mail  on  
very strong differences remain  play out,” Jacksonville Jaguars  behalf of Goodell to team own- 

NFL 


Labor negotiations between NFL, players continue 
Friday, February 25, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
SMC TENNIS
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 


Belles still adjusting to 


Irish optimistic despitelosses 
underclassmen roster 

including a 15-10 win in last 

By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
After an opening stretch that saw a two-game west coast trip and a home opener against No. 2 Northwestern, No. 11 Notre Dame will hit the road this weekend to take on Duquesne Saturday. 
The Irish (1-2) dropped back-to-back decisions to nationally ranked opponents by a com­bined four goals. Most recently, Notre Dame lost 14-11 to the Wildcats in a game that saw seven different players score a goal. Despite the rough start, Irish coach Tracy Coyne said she is encouraged. 
“I would be more worried if we were not in the games, but we had chances to win those 

games,” Coyne said. “I feel really 
good about the team. The girls are very competitive.” 
The rocky road to open the season has also been somewhat of a learning curve for the Irish. 
“We’ve been able to focus on things we can improve on these last few 
games,” Coyne said. “I would rather play a tough schedule than open 10-0 against cupcake teams.” 
The Dukes (1-1) also come into the game following a loss, falling 11-7 to No.16 Boston College on Thursday. The Irish have never lost to Duquesne in six meetings with the Pittsburgh school, year’s home opener for Notre Dame. 
“We’re going out there to win. We can be better than our record,” Coyne said. 
In last year’s game, senior midfielder Kailene Abt tallied four goals while junior attack Maggie Tamasitis contributed four assists. Duquesne has since lost goalie Sara Beckstead, who made 19 saves a year ago, to graduation and will be playing with 12 newcomers on the 
squad. 
“[Head coach] Mike Scerbo does a great job recruiting and maximizing potential from his players,” Coyne said. “They are defensively much better and we know they will be organized and well prepared.” 
Irish sophomore midfielder Jenny Granger leads the team with eight goals and has put nearly 83 percent of her shots on goal. Freshman midfielder 
“We’re going out there to win. We can do better than our record.” 
Tracy Coyne Irish coach 
lenge, but I think ... we got over our nerves and gained valuable experience,” Belles coach Dave Campbell said about his team’s 7-2 loss to NAIA foe Olivet Nazarene Friday. 
With five sen­iors and four 
freshmen on the 
Kaitlyn 
10-player roster, 
Brosco has 
the Belles (0-1) 
tallied six year, will work to capture her first match win of the season this weekend. The Belles’ dou­bles teams will also seek to post a win after losing all three matches to Olivet Nazarene. 

The Belles will first seek to avenge a home loss from last season to Case Western Reserve (3-2). Despite losing their past two matches, includ­ing one to No. 4 Chicago, the 

By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s travels to Cleveland to face Case Western Reserve and John Carroll this weekend, hoping to rebound from a disappointing opening performance. 
“In our first match, we weren’t quite up to the chal­
“In our frst match, we weren’t quite up to the challenge, but I think ... we got over our nerves and gained valuable experience.” 
Dave Campbell Belles coach 
Hurley, the No. 24 ranked play­

omore,” Coyne said. “I’ve been 
er in the central region last 

more pleased than surprised 
with her and Kaitlyn.” 
Sp artans pose a formi­dable chal­lenge. They are led by sophomore number one singles play­er Erika Lim. 
Meanwhile, John Carroll will play its first match since S eptem b er, when the 
Blue Streaks went 1-2 and were shutout 9-0 by Case Western Reserve. 
Following this weekend’s back-to-back matches, the Belles will return for their home opener at the Eck Tennis Pavilion March 7 against Saint Mary’s (Minn.). 

Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 
goals in the first three games, all in a reserve role. 
“I’ve been really happy with Jenny and she’s only a soph­feature a blend of experience and youth. Senior captain Jillian Hurley, who plays No. 1 singles, is leading the way for the Belles. Hurley also teams with freshman Mary Catherine Faller to form the Belles’ top doubles duo. 
After losing both singles and doubles matches last weekend, 

Notre Dame will face off against the Dukes at noon Saturday at Duquesne’s Rooney Field. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


Big East 
continued from page 20 
the Week after a fabulous showing at the UCF Invitational, where she had six hits and drove in six runs. Additionally, freshman pitcher Laura Winter was recognized on the confer ­ence’s weekly honor roll. She started her collegiate career with a win and a save last weekend. 


The Irish will also look for sophomore pitcher Brittany O’Donnell and senior pitcher Shannon Kelly to dominate in the bullpen this weekend after their strong showings in the UCF Invitational. 
With this amount of strength in the starting line­up, it’s easy to see why both Clay and Johnson believe this is the best team they’ve been a part of in their colle­giate careers. 
The Irish hope to extend their winning streak Saturday at 2 p.m. against the College of Charleston. 

Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 25, 2011 

home game of her four-year five rebounds. Sophomore guard an appropriate way to commem­career. Skylar Diggins scored 10 and orate Bruszewski and what she 
“[It’s] a huge sigh of relief for senior guard Brittany Mallory brings to the team. 
being home,” McGraw said. had nine. “[Becca] sets the tone in the 
“We’ve had three of the last four Coming off the bench were locker room,” McGraw said. 
on the road to finish the season freshman forward Natalie “She’s got a mental toughness 
and in some tough places to play. Achonwa and sophomore guard and a fearless attitude. She’s 
We’ll be even more excited than Kaila Turner, who played a com-never intimidated, she’s very, 
usual to play in front of our home bined 39 minutes and added six very competitive, she wants to 
crowd, espe-rebounds. win, and I think her attitude is it. 
cially for the McGraw said She’s definitely the most physical 
last time. It’s her team demon-player on our team, and I think 
going to be a “Since it’s our last strated its ability people respond to that and the 
very emotional home game, I think to focus on the team really responds to her and 
day for Becca, game ahead of it, her leadership.” 
there’s going to be a 
and kind of a not the one But playing tough has never commending of lot of excitement for us before. been hard for this Irish team, sorts for her, to be in front of our “This team has and McGraw said Saturday won’t the last home done a really be any different, especially with 
crowd again.” 
game in her good job, and I the extra incentive to win at 
career.” think Becca’s a lot home. Bruszewski, Muffet McGraw of the reason why “Since it’s our last home game, 
one of the we have been I think there’s going to be a lot of 
Irish coach 
team’s co-cap-able to really excitement for us to be in front of tains, has been focus on the next our crowd again. I know we’re essential to the game,” she said. going to play hard-we do every Irish offense this season. She has “No matter who we’re playing, if game, and to send Becca out. We averaged 9.2 points per game to we’re playing a team at the bot-all want to play well for her, so I go along with 5.3 rebounds. tom of the standings or at the top think there’ll be a little extra Alongside Bruszewski, Notre of the standings, it hasn’t really incentive to play well for her on 
East) will feel even better when it Dame’s other starters scored all affected us. We’ve played well in Saturday,” McGraw said. 
steps back on its home court but five of the team’s 72 points. every game and I think that’s The Irish and the Bearcats will 

Offense 

Saturday for the first home game Junior guard Natalie Novosel had because we have such good focus tip off at 2 p.m. Saturday at the continued from page 20 since Feb. 12. The Irish will also a game-high 22 points and seven in every game.” Purcell Pavilion. be honoring their lone graduat-rebounds to lead the team, fol-Saturday’s focus will be not we’re feeling good right now.” ing senior, forward Becca lowed by senior forward only on defeating Cincinnati (8-Contact Meaghan Veselik at Notre Dame (23-5, 12-2 Big Bruszewski, as she plays the final Devereaux Peters’ 16 points and 18, 1-13 Big East), but doing it in mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 




Irish ready to bounce back from diffcult matches 
Junior Kristy Frilling, who was The last time the Irish faced 
By KATIE HEIT 

recently named the No. 3 singles Utah in tournament play was two 
Sports Writer 

player national-years ago, when ly, will lead the they won 7-0. In The No. 19 Irish face off this team this week-that match, weekend against an array of end, along with “There are a lot of Frilling, then a excellent teams at the Blue-Gray doubles partner freshman, domi­
good teams here this
Tournament in Montgomery, Ala. S h a n n o n nated in both sin-Coming off tough losses to Mathews, who weekend. I think we gles and doubles. Michigan and Vanderbilt and a is ranked 43rd. are going to just take Utah leads the all-win last weekend over Wisconsin, Together, they time series with 
one match at a time.” 
the team is ready to rise in the make up the No. Notre Dame 2-1. national rankings. 57 doubles team Utah has only 
The Irish enter the tournament in the country. Julie Sabacinski one player ranked as the No. 2 seed in the eight-team Additionally, Irish freshman in the top 60, but field behind top-seeded Virginia. f r e s h m a n look to hold its They will begin the tournament Jennifer Kellner own against the with a match against Utah Friday. is ranked just Irish. Other teams The Utes enter the tournament outside the top 100 singles play-making appearances this week-with just two losses after a four-ers. end include Oklahoma, Ohio State, match winning streak. “The hardest part will be the DePaul and Auburn. 
“There are a lot of good teams heat and playing outdoors,” The Irish kick off the tourna­here this weekend,” freshman Sabacinski said. “None of us have ment Friday at noon against Utah. Julie Sabacinski said. “I think we played outside since we got back are going to just take one match at from break, so it will be an adjust-Contact Katie Heit at a time.” ment.” kheit@nd.edu 



Kemp 
continued from page 20 
“We have a very good defen­sive group, and we are going to get stops with our goalie play and our defensive group that we have,” he said. “We have to clear the ball and turn those into offensive possessions.” 
If the Irish can duplicate last weekend’s performance against Duke, they should be very suc­cessful against Penn State, as Corrigan said he sees many similarities between the two teams. 
“They both have kind of an aggressive, physical, challeng­ing defensive style, and they both have a variety of different guys offensively that can hurt you if you don’t play good defense against them,” he said. “[The keys are] going to be largely the things that helped us get through last week.” 
The teams will face off at 1 
p.m. Sunday in University Park, Penn. 

Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


Friday, February 25, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 



Sweep 
continued from page 20 
second round to be played the weekend of March 11-13. The CCHA regular-season champi­onship still hangs in the bal­ance however, as Notre Dame and Michigan will settle their back-and-forth battle at the top of the standings on the season’s final weekend. The Wolverines face Northern Michigan on the road for their season finale. Irish coach Jeff Jackson said the goal of win­ning the CCHA crown means that the team needs to be play­ing its best going into the post­season. 
“The fact that we’ve clinched home ice in the second round was one of our season objec­tives, and to have the opportu­nity on the weekend to play for a conference championship is important,” Jackson said. “But it’s more important, in my opinion, that we’re playing at our very best as we go into the playoffs.” 
After winning at home and tying on the road in Kalamazoo, Mich. in an earlier home-and-home series with the Broncos, the Irish will hit the road on Friday night to contend with a team that has vastly improved in the 2010-11 season and will be fighting for a first-round bye in the CCHA Championship as they current­ly sit fourth in the standings. 
“I expect it to be a tremen­dously competitive series,” Jackson said. “They’ve had a great year; [head coach] Jeff Blashill’s done a nice job there.” 
After facing off in Kalamazoo Friday night, the teams will return to South Bend for a Saturday night clash that will double as a retrospective on the history of Notre Dame hockey at the Joyce Center and Senior Night event for the Irish seniors. The team will honor the accomplishments of senior manager Matthew McManus along with goalie Brian Brooke, wing Calle Ridderwall, wing Ryan Guentzel, center Ben Ryan and defenseman Joe Lavin. The class has been a distinguished one for the Irish program, with Ryan, Guentzel and Ridderwall contributing on 2007-08’s national runner-up squad. The players turned in three 20-win seasons in their four years, and Ridderwall said he looks back fondly on his years in a Notre Dame uniform. 
“Obviously, it’s special going into your last weekend in the regular season as a Notre Dame player, going into senior night, it’s pretty emotional and bittersweet. It’s been a great ride so far and you just hope to keep it going through the playoffs,” he said. “As a senior, you only have a couple of classes, you have a lot of time on your hands to think back on your college career. I have a lot of highlights, a lot of mem­ories from this place which I know I’m going to have for the rest of my life.” 

Ryan emphasized the impor­tance of finishing off his col­lege career with champi­onships, a process that can begin with a strong perform­ance this weekend and a CCHA title. 
“The goal is to win the play­offs and win the champi­onship, but that is a champi­onship, the regular season title,” he said. “With all the [freshmen] coming in, for these guys to get to hang a banner in the new rink, that’d be something special.” 
As the team heads into the final weekend of the regular season in position to hang a banner with a squad that was largely unproven coming into the year, Jackson said that the leadership of his seniors can­not be questioned. 
“People probably questioned how our leadership was going to be going into this season, but I think our leadership’s been as good as it’s been since I’ve been here,” he said. 
The Irish will take the ice with playoff implications on the line in Kalamazoo Friday night at 7:35 p.m. and again at the Joyce Center Saturday night at 7:05 p.m. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 



Irish to face tough foes at Blue-Gray Classic 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
Hoping to continue its recent success, No. 26 Notre Dame will travel to Montgomery, Ala. this ranked in the top 25. weekend to participate in the “This is one of the oldest tour-annual Blue-Gray National naments in the country,” Irish Tennis Classic. associate head coach Ryan 

The eight-team tournament Sachire said. “This year it fea­features four squads currently tures a really good field — all but one of the teams are in the top 50.” 

All eight teams will play a match on all three days of the tournament, regardless of the outcomes. 
“We play Penn State first and our next opponent will be deter­mined by the outcomes of the first day,” Sachire said. 
Despite the fact that the teams will be some of the best in the country, Sachire said he is opti­mistic that the Irish will play well. 
“There’s no team that we can’t beat in this tournament,” he said. 
Despite a 4-3 loss to Michigan last weekend, the Irish have won five of their last six matches. The team capped off the weekend with an important victory over No. 24 North Carolina. 
“We need to keep the momen­tum from that match going this weekend,” Sachire said. 
Since the beginning of the spring season, the coaching staff has put an emphasis on getting back to the basics, and the team has responded. 
“Our practices have been sharp and crisp, and it showed against Virginia and Illinois,” Sachire said. “We had a high energy level and were competing hard.” 

Once the calendar turns to March, Notre Dame will begin to host more matches, a sharp con­trast from the first half of the spring season, when they only hosted four contests. The Irish have seven home matches remaining this season, excluding the Big East Championships, which will be held on campus at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
“It’s certainly a lot easier not traveling,” Sachire said. “When we’re at home we don’t need to adjust to the court surface or waste time traveling. But at the same time, we have less distrac­tions on the road and can just focus on tennis.” 
The Irish will need to bring plenty of focus to the tournament this weekend, starting with their match against Penn State, which is today at 4:30 p.m. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 25, 2011 
BASEBALL 



Irish gear up for possible weather 

Brey 
continued from page 20 

situations] in practice so it is good to have them down the stretch.” 
The all-around team effort and 56 percent shooting night was led by Irish lead­ing scorer senior guard Ben Hansbrough, who netted a career-high 32 points as Brooks’ went on his scoring tear. The Irish had four play­ers score in double figures, including a season-high 28 points by fourth year for­ward Tim Abromaitis. 
“I thought for [Abromaitis], he was in a rhythm and we did a good job of finding him,” Brey said. 
However, the Irish will have another dazzling Big East senior to defend in Pirates (11-16, 5-10) guard Jeremy Hazell, who has averaged 21.8 points per game in the past four con­tests while only being held under double-digits twice this season. In Seton Hall’s 73-64 loss to Marquette last Saturday, the senior sharp-

By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Looking to build on a strong opening weekend, the Irish might find that the biggest obstacle to earning more wins this weekend is not something they can con­trol — the weather. With three games scheduled in the Pacific Northwest against Seattle University, recent adverse weather conditions in the area have cast doubt over the teams’ ability to play games. 
“At this point right now, the whole weekend is up in the air,” Irish coach Mik Aoki said. “They’re getting some bad weather up there, getting a little bit of snow that Seattle is not really accus­tomed to. Mother Nature is having her way with us right now.” 
Weather aside, Notre Dame (2-1) is looking to continue its momentum from an open­ing weekend that began with a loss but finished with two big victories, including a record-setting 19-2 victory over Purdue. The Redhawks are a relatively new program, however, which leaves the Irish without much informa­tion about what to expect from their hosts. 
“I’m not 100 percent sure what to expect from Seattle,” Aoki said. “They’re sort of transitioning their way back into Division I — they had gone pretty close to 20 years without a varsity baseball program there.” 
The Notre Dame rotation will remain the same, with a trio of seniors starting on the mound. Brian Dupra (0-1) will open the series, followed by Cole Johnson (1-0) and Todd Miller (1-0). 
“If our pitchers pitch to their strengths and pitch to their abilities, I would very definitely expect them to have very good outings and to carry us relatively deep into the game,” Aoki said. 
Even though a 19 -run explosion carried Aoki to his first victory as Irish head coach, he does not see his squad regularly blowing out its opponents, but rather using smart play to earn wins. 
“Nineteen runs in any base­ball situation is an aberra­tion, and I think that I would be really pleased with our club if we were able to aver­age 7 or 8 runs a game. I think that probably means we had a really successful season,” Aoki said. “We’re going to have to work for whatever it is that we get. We have to make sure that we’re doing a really good job of playing situationally and understanding that we’re not a team that’s going to be hit­ting bombs over the fence. We’re not going to be a team that’s putting up 10, 12 runs a game.” 
Freshman right fielder Eric Jagielo will attempt to repli­cate a strong offensive per­formance in his first series with the Irish, when he scored four runs in two games. “Eric Jagielo is going to be a fixture in the middle of the lineup,” Aoki said. “I think he’s a really talented player. With young players, they’ll have their times of struggle and they’ll have either times where they do really well for a period of time.” 
The most important goal for the weekend will not be to limit the Redhawks’ runs or to have hot bats — it’ll be to just take the field. 
“We’ re hoping, number one, that we can still make the trip up there and play,” Aoki said. 
The Irish travel to face Seattle this weekend for three games. The teams will either play Friday, Saturday and Sunday or, play a double­header Saturday and one game Sunday. 


Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
teams to only 65.2 points per game while forcing 14.5 turnovers per game. 
“They are going to press us 
shooter went for 23 points, passing 

“I thought for
Notre Dame’s [Abromaitis] he was in Colin Falls 
a rhythm and we did a
for the most 

good job of fnding
3-pointers made in Big him.” East history with 192. 
Mike Brey 
Notre 

Irish coach
Dame will also have to find a way around a stalwart Seton Hall defense, 1970 -1971 and come after us,” Brey said. “They have shot freely on the road, put­ting up 90 points against Syracuse and they are going to come in here loose.” 
Meanwhile, the Irish will honor their all-time lead­ing scorer at halftime, All -American game while breaking the 40­point mark 23 times in his collegiate career. The Naismith winner eventually went on to a 10-year career in the NBA with the Cavaliers, Mavericks and Washington Bullets and was inducted into the College Basketball Hall of Fame in 2007. 

“What a special night [it will be] as we put Austin Carr in our ring of honor,” Brey said. “The production he had before [the institu­tion of] the 3-point line in college basketball is kind of unheard of.” 
The Irish will welcome Seton Hall to the Purcell Pavilion Saturday night at 7 
p.m. in a late -season Big East matchup. 

Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 

which held then -No. 10 Syracuse to 68 points in a 90 -68 win at the Carrier Dome in January. This sea­son, the Pirates have held guard Austin Carr. Carr scored 2,560 points in three years of varsity basketball at Notre Dame (1968-1971) and averaged 34.6 points per 

Friday, February 25, 2011 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 




Sports 
Friday, February 25, 2011 page 20 
ND MEN’S BASKETBALL 
ND looks to hold onto undefeated home record 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Heading into its final home stand of the season, home court advantage seems to take on a new meaning for No. 9 Notre Dame. 
After surviving a scare from a struggling Providence team — mostly due to a 52­point eruption by senior guard Marshon Brooks — the Irish (22-5, 11-4) look to go undefeated at home this sea­son with their final two home games this wee k, starting with Big East foe Seton Hall on Saturday night. 
“That [was] just a great team win,” Irish coach Mike Brey said in a post -game radio interview afte r his team’s 94 -93 win at Providence (14 -14, 3-12) Wednesday night. “We can’t simulate these [close-game 
see BREY/page 18 



Set for Seton 

JULIE HERDER/The Observer Senior Ben Hansbrough carries the ball on a fast break during Notre Dame’s 89-79 win against Louisville. The Irish will face Seton Hall at home Saturday at 7 p.m. 
HOCKEY 

JACChosts last regular seasonfinale 

By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 

The 42-year regular season history of the Joyce Center will close the book on an era of Notre Dame hockey Saturday night as the No. 8 Irish will have a chance to honor the arena’s history with one last regular season CCHA crown. Notre Dame faces off against Western Michigan in a home-and-home series this weekend, with the Irish cling­ing to a one-point lead in the CCHA standings. The game will mark the end of Notre Dame’s final full regular sea­son slate at the arena. 
Fresh off a road sweep of Ferris State, Notre Dame has clinched a first-round bye in the upcoming CCHA Championship tournament along with home-ice for the 
see SWEEP/page 17 

MEN’S LACROSSE 



Irish hope new Penn State coaching staff will not pose threat 
seasons in program history, the are and where they are going.” to ensure that they don’t over-offensive pushes.
By JOSEPH MONARDO 

Nittany Lions are led by first An impressive performance look the Nittany Lions. “I’m kind of more of a goalie
Sports Writer 

year coach Jeff Tambroni, who against the Irish would be a “We need to make sure that that is willing to take chances to earned his first win with his huge step for Penn State, one we don’t come in too overconfi-try to start transitions and fast 
Notre Dame will look to follow new team against Binghamton which they will undoubtedly try dent,” sophomore goalie John breaks,” Kemp said. “Hopefully up on its dominant performance in their opener. Under the especially hard to achieve. Kemp said. “Certainly you want I’ll be able to provide some nice against defending champion direction of Tambroni, Penn “This is a great chance for to go in with confidence, but not outlets.” Duke as it travels to Penn State State looks to leave last year’s them,” Corrigan said. “They too much, because they are a Kemp’s ability to get the ball to face a team that posted an disappointment behind. have a highly ranked team com-good team and they are capable out of his stick quickly will con-abysmal 2-11 record last year. “[A 2-11 record] was an ing onto their campus, and we of beating us.” tinue to be important this week-
With a new coach and a large anomaly for them,” Irish coach are going to see their best, Kemp anchored the Irish end, as Corrigan says one of his amount of young talent, howev-Kevin Corrigan said. “They are there’s no question about that, defense with a 10-save per-team’s keys to winning the er, Penn State (1-0) promises to a talented team and they’ve got and I think their best is very, formance in the first game of game is a strong transition challenge the No. 3 Irish (1-0) a new coaching staff and I know very good.” the season but played an equal-game. as they vie for a big upset. there is a lot of excitement in Following their coach’s exam-ly important role in clearing the 
Coming off one of the worst their program about where they ple, the Irish players are careful ball, leading to several quick see KEMP/page 16 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 




Senior Day set to restart streak 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 8 Irish came back from a devastating loss to No. 2 Connecticut to take down No. 19 West Virginia Tuesday — and hope to start a winning streak Saturday when they host Cincinnati on Notre Dame’s Senior Day. 
“There’s a lot of momentum going in,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “With DePaul los­ing last night, we’re now tied for second [in the Big East], so we have a lot of momentum going in with that big win on the road, just such a quality win for us against a top-25 team. We exe­cuted our offense really well, we played great defense, so I think 
see OFFENSE/page 16 


KIRBY McKENNA/The Observer Freshman forward Natalie Anchonwa prepares to shoot against Rutgers Feb. 12. The Irish walked away with a 71-49 win. 
ND SOFTBALL 


Undefeated team aims to further consistency 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
After starting their sea­son with a 5-0 record in the UCF Invitational, the Irish are eager to see what else they can accomplish at the College of Charleston Invitational. 
“I would say consistency is the biggest thing we’re trying to improve,” senior infielder and team captain Heather Johnson said. 
So far it would appear that this seasoned Irish team is accomplishing just that. This weekend they will face Iowa State, Marist and Liberty, as well as host College of Charleston. The team is fairly unfamiliar with its opponents this weekend, who haven’t been on the schedule in the time that this team has been together. 

Senior catcher Alexia Clay said she isn ’t con ­cerned with unfamiliar sit­uations. 
“I really feel like this year we have a lot of potential and a lot of seasoned play­ers so we’re pretty deep in our lineup,” Clay said. 
One of those players, jun­ior outfielder Alexa Maldonado, was recently named Big East player of 
see BIG EAST/page 15 



