

The Observer will resume regular publication tomorrow. 

INSIDE COLUMN 
A Promise,        A Purpose 
In November 1966, John Lennon met Yoko Ono, California elected Ronald Reagan governor and David Schwimmer — better known as Ross Geller 
— was born. 
In less culture-shifting news, The Observer published its first edition Nov. 3, 1966. On that front page sits an editorial titled, “A Promise, A Purpose, A Newspaper Is Born.” 
Ignoring the capitalization mistakes in that headline, and the subsequent typos through­out both the editorial and the entire issue, The Observer announced its lofty goals from its outset. 
“The Observer … in the words of its editors, will do just what its name proclaims: observe, remark, notice, comment and adhere.” 
Though 45 years later we have literally printed a blank front page in what could be misinterpreted as shameless self-promotion, The Observer’s inten­tions remain the same: observe, remark, notice, comment and adhere. 
Observe: Notre Dame students either do not know The Observer has a website, or they do not care. 
Remark: This ignorance is wholly unnecessary. 
Notice: Considering the universality of and dependence on laptops and smart phones, this ignorance is also surprising. 
Comment: Even if The Observer is available around campus every day, why not check its web­site or Twitter handles before heading to class? 
Adhere: Today’s front page and the 11 pages fol­lowing it are an admitted risk, but they are a risk with the potential of a great reward. 
The self-righteous argument for this “blank” paper is that it is The Observer’s job to inform its audience of anything and everything it should know. Well, The Observer’s online presence is growing. From photo galleries to Twitter updates to live blogs, items are available at ndsmcobserver.com that are not available in the pages here. 
I believe, and only hope my staff agrees, this web content is worthwhile. Thus, it is The Observer’s job to inform its audience about this web content. 
Our gray filler boxes and subtle changes in the print edition simply were not getting the job done. We had to grab your attention. First, we completely revamped our website, making it cleaner, more organized and more user-friendly. Now, we are let­ting you know about it. 
Undoubtedly, some will be infuriated by today’s paper. I can only imagine how painful it is to actu­ally pay attention to your boring econ professor, but you and I both know you have an iPhone or Android in your pocket, so go ahead and download The Observer app. 
To those traditionalists who refuse to abandon the print edition: Well, first, a heartfelt thank you. You give aspiring journalists hope for the industry. 
Secondly, a reassurance — The Observer is not going anywhere. This issue already upset a few of our advertisers, and for that I am sorry and accept fault for not giving them further advance notice. 
When Stephen M. Feldhaus and Robert Sam An­son led the charge 45 years ago, they did so white-knuckled, not knowing if there would be a second year or a even second edition of The Observer. They certainly did not have time to dream of a second decade. 
I would argue in the 45 years since, The Observer has improved drastically, hopefully on more pro­found levels than a lack of typos. Our website, app and general online presence are examples of this constant state of upgrade. 
In the first edition of The Observer, Feldhaus and Anson wrote, “To uncover the truth and to report it accurately. This is our goal. This is our purpose.” 
That is still our goal. That is still our purpose. 
Don’t worry. We will be back on your newsstands tomorrow. But in the meantime, check online. The truth is uncovered and accurately reported there, too. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


@ObserverNDSMC What should the Question of the Day be? #QuestionOfTheDay 





@TNNDN  @NDCoach Waldrum  @aclark6  @NDFollowr  @tricerapops  
“@NDObsPhoto  “How come  “@ObserverNDSMC  “@ObserverNDSMC  “@ObserverNDSMC  
@ObserverNDSMC  Obama invited  Who is your  music in the  -- favorite place  
Should ND stadium get jumbo tron and  every other National Chamption  favorite 90s band?”  stadium: awesome or extremely  to nap......er, I mean study?”  
new turf in FB  to the White  awesome?”  
stadium? Pros and Cons of both.  House, except ND Women’s  
#TNNDN”  Soccer?”  


WWW.NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Above is a Quick Response (QR) code, which will link you to our website ndsmcobserver.com. The code can be read by any QR code reader, many of which are available on the iPhone App Store or the Android Market for free. These include RedLaser, QR Droid, Barcode Scanner or Google Goggles. You may think this is odd, but QR codes will be mainstream before long, so try it out. 
IN BRIEF 
Fred Nelson, president of the People’s Choice Awards, will give a talk titled “‘Pop­ular Culture’ is NOT an Oxymoron” today at 4 p.m. in the DeBartolo Perform­ing Arts Center. Admission is free but ticketed. To re­serve a ticket, please call the DPAC box office. 
The Cushwa Center for the Study of American Ca­tholicism will sponsor a seminar titled “Black Nuns and the Struggle to Deseg­regate Catholic Sisterhoods after World War II” today at 4:30 p.m. in 100-104 McKenna Hall. The semi­nar will feature Shannen Dee Williams of Rutgers University and Diane Batts Morrow of the University of Georgia. 
The “A Time to Heal” dinner and discussion will take place tonight at 6 p.m. in Club Naimoli in the Joyce Center as a part of Sexual Violence Awareness Week. 
The Center for Social Concerns will sponsor a screening of the documen­tary film “Tony” by Invis­ible Children tonight at 7 
p.m. in the Andrews Audi­torium in Geddes Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this sec­
tion  of  The  Observer,  e­ 
mail  detailed  informa­ 
tion  about  an  event  to  

obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT 




FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 




Thursday, November 3, 2011 The Observer u @ObserverNDSMC ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 






Wall 
Info Friend Activity (1+) Photos Discussions 
About 
From breaking news to interesting tid bits, get quick and easy updates abou… 
More 


1,059
 like this 
31 
talking about this 
University of Notre Dame 

University of Notre Dame Class of 2015 

Observer Sports 

Observer Scene 
Create a Page 
Add to My Page’s Favorites Get Updates via SMS Get Updates vis RSS Unlike 
Report Page Share 



Observer News 
Company 


Share: 
Post Photo 
Link
 Video 


Observer News added 15 new photos to the album Inside the football locker room. 

Observer News 
Breast Cancer Awareness Month may be over, but the disease still affects the lives of many. Meet junior Courtney Rauch in the latest ND Minute post and learn about her experience with breast cancer: http://bit.ly/rAOezo 
Junior battles cancer, researches disease - ND Minute - The Observer News Blog - The Observer - Univ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Junior Courtney Rauch is a student researcher. For the past two years, she was also a breast cancer patient. 
Like • Comment • Share • 15 hours ago • 


Observer News 
In September, Notre Dame students wasted an average of 4.63 ounces of food after each meal in the dining hall, said William Yarbrough, associate director in the Food Services Administration.: http://bit.ly/v4FSkz 

Waste-Free Wednesdays promote sustainability -News - Notre Dame - The Observer - University of Notr 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
In September, Notre Dame students wasted an 
average of 4.63 ounces of food after each meal in 
the dining hall, said William Yarbrough, associate 
director in the Food Services Administration. 

Like • Comment • Share • 16 hours ago • 


www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle 
Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 







Observer News 
Renovations to be completed in 2013 will expand and update the Morris Inn: http://bit.ly/v7mpYF 



Renovators expand Inn - News - Notre Dame -
The Observer - University of Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary’s 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
More than 60 years ago, a Notre Dame Law School 
graduate donated $1 million to the University to 
construct the Morris Inn. In 2013, renovators will 
finish adding new rooms and updating the venue’s 
facilities thanks to a $15 million gift from that same 
donor’s daughter. 

Like • Comment • Share • Tuesday at 12:15pm • 


Observer News Atheist group denied official club status: http://bit.ly/prBuuY 
Atheist group denied official club status - News - Notre Dame - The 
Observer - University of Notre D 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
From the Basilica on God Quad to the chapels in every residence hall to 
the crucifixes in every classroom, the University’s Catholic identity is not 
easily missed. Not all Notre Dame students, however, share that identity. 

Like • Comment • Share • 15 hours ago • 

Post Office Information 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one 
academic year; $75 for one semester.  
The Observer is published at:  POSTMASTER  
024 South Dining Hall  Send address corrections to:  
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779  The Observer  
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame  P.O. Box 779  
and additional mailing offices  024 South Dining hall  
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077  

The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 


News Sports 
Sara Felsenstein Andrew Gastelum Tori Roeck Matthew Graphics DeFranks Lauren Kalinoski Laura Coletti 
Photo Scene 
Mackenzie Sain Alex Kilpatrick 
Viewpoint 
Meghan Thomassen 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 




Remember that awesome concert you went to last weekend that only had one small, black and white pic­ture in the paper? Wonder why your ticket group didn’t make the football wrap even though you all dressed up in crazy costumes for the Navy game? Did you deliver an amaz­ing stage performance in Washing­ton Hall, only to find the story had no pictures to cut out and put up on your wall? 

Well, my friends, all is not lost. Observer photographers cover all of these events and more, and odds are we got a shot of you! The photo department compiles online galler­ies for all football games, most home hockey and basketball games, on-and off-campus concerts and other major events around campus. 
The galleries provide a compre­hensive look at what’s happening at Notre Dame, featuring dozens of pho­tos found exclusively online. Plus, we just redesigned our Multimedia page and the photos are bigger and better than ever. For in-depth visual cover­age of campus events, check out our online photo galleries under the Mul­timedia tab. Who knows, your pic­ture could be on our website. 



Your name: Subject: 




Weekly Poll 
What’s your favorite kind of candy? Reese’s Milky Way M&M’s Twizzlers Retweet #weeklypoll with your answer 



Address: 
Affiliation with the University: 
Your letter: 

Broomfield, CO 
Class of ‘72 

At least since 1968, if not long before, the Notre Dame Band 
has always greeted the fans of the opposing team by playing 
their fight song before ours, then “America the Beautiful,” then 
the National Anthem. This display of true sportsmanship and welcome is a singular distinction of Notre Dame from any other 
university. I know from the fans’ response that it is greatly 
appreciated and probably dulls the bad taste in their mouths 
when we win. I hope that this treatment of our guests doesn’t 
get consumed by the creation of a place where its hard for our opponents to win. 



You’re a saint … or you could be! 
Faithpoint 
Certainly you can remember times when you’ve heard 
people say of someone heroic, or who has endured great 
suffering with patience and grace, “She’s a saint!” or, “He’s a saint!” Perhaps you’ve even heard it said of one of your 
own parents (though surely not because raising you caused them to endure great suffering). See more 




Address: 
Affiliation with the University: 
Your letter: 

McGlinn Hall 
senior 

About how much of the U.S. budget do you think is spent on foreign aid? Twenty-five percent? 

ND Minute lets you view campus news through a different lens. As The Observer’s news 
blog, ND Minute offers readers weekly in-depth video coverage of important events or stu­
dent activities at Notre Dame — all in about one minute. 
Past posts have included interviews with student government presidents and features 
on the Dillon Hall Pep Rally, fall break service trips in Appalachia and Notre Dame’s Lep­
rechaun, Mike George. ND Minute even went behind the scenes with Irish football team 
student managers this fall. Check out ND Minute for the inside look. 

ND Minute 

The Observer


 Passport 





Pre-Permacloud Jams By Troy Mathew 

Electricityscape - The Strokes 
Young Blood — The Naked and Famous Neighborhood #1 (Tunnels) — Arcade Fire Mykonos — Fleet Foxes Weekend Wars — MGMT Ghost Inside — Broken Bells No Cars Go — Arcade Fire Stop Me — Mark Ronson 
1901 — Phoenix 
Life is Simple in the Moonlight — The Strokes Your Protector — Fleet Foxes GFC — Albert Hammond Jr. 
Fall is arguably the only time South Bend weather is desirable. This point in the semester marks the weeks before the permacloud 
settles in for the next five or so 
months, so celebrate the time of 
year with this moody and reflective alternative playlist. 
To listen to this and all past Scene 


playlists, visit 
http://grooveshark.com/#/observerscene/playlists. 






Sports Authority 
Observer sports writers are only able to write about Notre Dame sports most of the year. Sports Authority, a daily sports column written by 10 writers on a bi-weekly basis, gives readers a chance to see unique perspectives on the world of sports outside of Notre Dame. Because writers have a set day for their columns, readers can read and choose writers whose work they enjoy and look for their pieces in the future. Topics this year have ranged from hating fantasy football to the state of college football and from the demise of Roger Federer to the effect 9/11 had on the sports world. The columns provide more analysis from The Observer’s sports writers than ever before. 

Douglas Farmer is a senior majoring in the Program of Liberal Studies and minoring in the Gallivan Program of Journalism, Ethics and De­mocracy. Despite hailing from La Crosse, Wis., and cheering for the Packers, Douglas also sup­ports the Yankees and Mavericks. He claims he does such for family reasons. Either way, the Douglas Farmer sports world has been kind to Douglas recently. 
Editor-in-Chief 

Allan Joseph is a junior double-majoring in Economics and Premedical studies. While he grew up in Columbus, Ohio as a Buckeye fan, he’s seen the error of his ways since coming to Notre Dame. Either way, he’s also a Browns and Cavaliers fan, which makes watching Notre Dame football all the more painful. One of those teams has to win a championship Allan Joseph eventually, right? 
Sports Editor 

Andrew Owens is a junior Political Science major and in the Gallivan Program of Jour­nalism, Ethics and Democracy minor. He is a lifelong Detroit sports fan, with the Tigers be­ing his first love. He has been to a champion­ship game to see a Detroit team play in three of the four major sports, and it will not be long until he sees the Lions in the Super Bowl. 
Andrew Owens 
Assoc. Sports Ed. 
Andrew Gastelum is a sophomore double-majoring in Film, Television and Theatre and Romance Languages and Literature with a minor in the Gallivan Program of Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. From Los Angeles, he is a die-hard fan of the Dodgers, Lakers, Kings, Galaxy and Packers. Andrew’s favor­ite sport to watch is soccer and remains a staunch supporter of Manchester United, AS Roma and the Italian national team. 


Matthew DeFranks is a sophomore market­ing major from Miami, Fla. He loves a solid 2-3 zone, Sperry’s, fantasy football drafts, “How I Met Your Mother,” Cuban food, free parking, beaches, good hip hop and airports. 
Matt DeFranks 
Sports Writer 


The Observer Short 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

PERSONAL  WANTED  
@ajonovski  @gustinupastorm  @ticklememelmo13  Only those who will risk going too  
@klukas27  @pat_coveney  @canigetanankur  far can possibly find out how far  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame  Unemployed CS3 user wants help with web site.  @Ash_Ulrich @sbstryker  @adrianampratt @GoIrishESP  @easchrank @c_hous  one can go.         - T.S. Eliot  
has many resources in place to  @callenND  @allanmjoseph  @jillianbarwick  
assist you. If you or someone you  @the_REAL_tla  @owensandrew  @sarafel20  To look to the end before the begin  
love needs confidential support  @kdurbs423  @megan_e_doyle  @berchmanllorens  is to reach the end without having  
or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  Marvin 574-233-0045  @brandonkeelean  @S_Pratt  @smervette  begun.  
Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at  @halfmt_halfull  @MDeFranks  @D_Farmer  
1-2685. For more information,  
visit ND’s website at: http://  South Bend  
pregnancysupport@nd.edu  $%**@  




The Observer Live Blog 
Football vs Navy (10/29/2011)  
Saturday October 29, 2011  
 
3:02  Sam: Hey everyone! Welcome to The Observer’s live blog of ND vs. Navy. Kickoff’s set for approximately 3:40. I’m Sam Gans and I’ll be joined by fellow sports writer Jack Hefferon and Assistant Managing Editor Chris Masoud.  
3:30  Jack: 12 minutes to gametime. Stadium just observed a moment of silence for Xavier Murphy, the former football manager and Zahm Hall resident who passed away a few weeks ago.  
3:37  Jack: Aaand here come the Irish, once again in their shiny new helmets.  
3:37  Comment From Sam We may play like crap, but hot damn, our helmets look good.  
3:38  Comment From Eric 4 Hey guys, It’s snow in Massachusetts at my parents house. http://www.flickr. com/photos/69195708@N02/6292380628/  
3:39  Jack: Stadium was covered by sleet in a hailstorm around noon, but it is  

 

 

For each football game and other important sporting events throughout the year, Observer sports writers live blog the events. These blogs are not only a running commentary of the writers’ thoughts as they watch the events from the press box, but are also a place for readers to interact with each other as well as the writ­ers. Readers can follow along and post comments, communicating with the writers as the event goes on. 
Whether you’re watching the game and just want added inter­action, or you’re unable to watch the event and need details, The Observer’s live blogs are an excellent feature of our online content. 

Sports Blogs 
Irish Insider Extra 
During football season, the Irish Insider Extra will pro­vide readers with every live blog from that season’s games, along with other football news not included in the print edi­tion of the paper. Stories range from the reinstatement of Mi­chael Floyd to the impact of ESPN’s GameDay on the Michi­gan-Notre Dame rivalry. 
The Irish Football page cov­ers everything in the Irish Insider, including staff pre­dictions, recruiting news and main features on Irish players. After each game, the page will display news about the game, including a wrap-up, a column by an Observer sports writ­er and the post-game report card. When you can’t pick up a copy of The Observer, the Irish Insider Extra is a great way to stay up to date on everything Irish football. 
The Casual Observer 
In covering all Irish sports with a fan’s eye, The Casual Observer offers blog posts on various events, including the women’s soccer national championship and hockey’s Frozen Four appearance. The page also features live blogs from non-football events such as men’s basketball NCAA tournament games and wom­en’s basketball Final Four games. The live blogs are a great resource to follow less publicized Notre Dame sports and events. 
Interhall Insights 

Notre Dame offers its undergraduate students a unique opportunity to play full-contact football for men and flag football for women. Teams are split up by dorms, pushing dorm rivalries to the limit. Interhall Insights offers additional coverage of interhall football from the inner workings of a team to the impact dorm size has on a team’s talent pool. The Insights are a great way to follow your favorite dorm teams and follow their progress from the beginning of the season to the championship game in Notre Dame Stadium. 


The Making of the Irish Insider Cover 
You see them every week before football games. They’re probably hanging in many of your dorm rooms. They’re definitely hanging in The Observer office. They’re the Irish Insider covers. But now you don’t have to stop with only the cover printed each Friday. You can go behind the scenes — from the photo shoot to the touchup work and from the lighting adjustments, to the addition of text — you can see it all in time-lapsed videos put together by The Observer’s Graphics and Photo departments. Head on over to the Irish Insider Extra blog to check them out. It’ll be well worth your time.   



Thursday, November 3, 2011 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


HENRy ARNOLD 
EXPND JON REPINE 
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

ND Women’s Basketball: Irish dominate in sole exhibition game 
NCAA women’s basketball returned to Purcell Pavilion at the 
JACC, but this time with an international accent as the Irish defeated defending Canadian national champion Windsor. 
Today’s Headlines 
A Promise, A Purpose 
The rationale for a #blankObserver 
Fulbright awards 12 Notre 
Dame grants 
The Importance of Social Media 
ND Women’s Tennis: Irish duo 
heads to New York 


News 

Notre Dame offers workshop on new Mass translation 

On Nov. 27, the first Sunday of Advent, English-
speaking Catholics across the world will begin using the new translation of the Roman Missal. 
Full story 
Sports 

Men’s Tennis: Notre Dame 
finishes fall season with Gopher 
Invitational 
The Irish hit the road for their final competition 
of the fall season, when they take on a tough 
field at the Gopher Invitational in Minneapolis. 
Full story 
Scene 
The Importance of Social Media 
In a society where communication is constantly propelled by the newest and best social networking website, it can 
seem impossible to find the value in the type of interactions 
promoted by Facebook and Twitter. Sure, everyone uses Facebook to keep in touch with his or her friends, but should legitimate journalistic sources use Facebook to communicate with a new generation of readers? Can anything meaningful 
be communicated in the confined space of Twitter’s 140 
characters? Full story 
Viewpoint 
A Promise, A Purpose 
In November 1966, John Lennon met Yoko Ono, California elected Ronald Reagan governor and David Schwimmer – bet­ter known as Ross Geller – was born. 
In less culture-shifting news, The Observer published its first edition Nov. 3, 1966. On that front page sits an editorial titled, “A Promise, A Purpose, A Newspaper Is Born.” 
Notre Dame’s signature sportsmanship 
At least since 1968, if not long before, the Notre Dame Band 
has always greeted the fans of the opposing team by playing 
their fight song before ours, then “America the Beautiful” then 
the national anthem. This display of true sportsmanship and welcome is a singular distinction of Notre Dame from any other university. 
• 
Panel discusses connection between sports, peace 

• 
Professor talks about passion 


for acting 
• 
Notre Dame offers workshop on new Mass translation 

• 
Cardoza: Dynamic duo leads Siegfried to No. 1 seed 

• 
ND Women’s Tennis: Irish duo heads to New York 

• 
Men’s Tennis: Notre Dame finishes fall season with 


Gopher Invitational 
Blogs 


What’s your favorite kind of candy?

   Reese’s
    Milky Way
    M&M’s 
Twizzlers 





