the 
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Council elections lead to run-offs 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Monday’s Class Council elec­tions resulted in run-offs in each of the Sophomore, Junior and Senior Class Council races, said Michael Thomas, Judicial Council Vice President of Elections. The run-off elections will be held Wednesday from 8 
a.m. to 8 p.m. 
To win the initial election, a ticket must win a majority of the votes cast, Thomas said. No ticket received more than 50 percent of the vote in the elec­tion. 
Juniors Anne Huntington, Mike Oliver, Brittni Alexander and Tyler Harmsen advanced to the Senior Class Council run­off election with 38.8 percent of the vote. 
Huntington said her ticket wants to make it a fun senior year for the Class of 2012. 
“We have a lot of experience and know how to run events,” she said. “We just want to make it the best senior year it can possibly be.” 
Huntington said she is excit­ed to be a part of the run-off election. 
“It’s all about making new friends and meeting new peo­ple,” she said. “That’s been the greatest part of this experi­ence.” 
Juniors Parker King, Ben German, Alicia Elliott and Brinya Bjork proceeded to the run-off election after capturing 
29.2 percent of the vote. King said his ticket wants the 
see COUNCIL/page 4 



John to appear in court after guilty plea 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
Associate News Editor 
A former Notre Dame stu­dent will appear in court March 18 after he allegedly molested a 12-year-old South Bend girl he met on MySpace. 
Ackley F. John, who was a senior at the time of his arrest, pleaded guilty in November to two counts of child molestation, both class B felonies. According to court documents, he was arrested April 4 after he allegedly engaged in a sex act with the girl after meet­ing her online. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said John’s enrollment at Notre Dame ceased April 6, two days after he was arrested by local law enforcement. 
Court documents from the St. Joseph County Courthouse reported that at approximately 3:30 a.m. April 4, the girl’s parents called Mishawaka Police to report their daughter as a runaway. A Mishawaka offi­cer responded to the call and asked about the girl at a 
see COURT/page 4 



Students save with Groupon discounts 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Students are exploring local businesses and saving money using Groupon, a collective buy­ing website that offers dis­counts. 
Groupon offers discounts for local services ranging from 50 to 90 percent off, Kelsey O’Neill, a spokeswoman for Groupon, said. 
“We drive new business and revenue to local merchants while providing customers with deep discounts on new ways to explore their city,” she said. 
Sophomore Michelle Yanik began using Groupon last year in her hometown of Raleigh, N.C., and now subscribes to the South Bend offers. She has pur­chased Groupon deals for local businesses, including Chicory Café and Salon Rouge as well as franchises like Barnes & Noble and Moosejaw. 
“Groupons do a great job of promoting local independent businesses,” Yanik said. “It allows people to discover new restaurants and shops in their 
see GROUPON/page 5 


ND celebrates Rare Disease Day 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
The Center for Rare and Neglected Disease hosted a dinner featuring speakers from different projects cen­tering on rare disease research to celebrate World Rare Disease Day. 
Dr. Katsuri Haldar, director of the Center, wants to raise awareness and funds to fight neglected disease. 
“There are 7,000 rare dis­eases, which means one in 150,000 people are affected,” she said. “There are 7 million Americans affected by rare disease and 200 million 
see DISEASE/page 5 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER World Cinema Festival held at Saint Mary’s page 3  Viewpoint page 6  Oscar’s Fashion Recap page 8  Men’s Basketball page 16 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, March 1, 2011 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Chris Allen Caitlin Housley Mike Todisco Melissa Flanagan Victoria Jacobsen 

Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Maria Fernandez 

Photo Viewpoint 
Ashley Dacy Meghan Thomassen 


CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY:IF YOU WERE BORN ON A LEAP DAY,WHEN WOULD YOU CELEBRATE YOUR BIRTHDAY? 






Andrew Velzen  Caleb Cobbin  Megan Dustin  Robin O’Brien  Ryan Loos  Sarah Kimball  
junior  freshm an  freshm an  sophom ore  sophom ore  junior  
O ’N eill  M orrissey  Lyons  W alsh  O ’N eill  M cG linn  
“Every four  “Either Feb.28  “Iw ould  “Iw ould  “6 a.m .on  “Probably  
years.”  or M arch 1,or  celebrate itthe  celebrate itfour  M arch 1.”  M arch 1.”  
actually both  day before.”  tim es as m uch.”  
days!”  


JULIE HERDER/The Observer Students show their love for fourth-year forward Tim Abromaitis during Notre Dame’s 93-72 win over Villanova Monday night. The win guarantees the Irish a double-bye in the Big East tournament. 


OFFBEAT 
UK removesice cream made withbreastmilkfromshop 
LONDON — Local govern­ment officials said Monday they have confiscated ice cream made with human breast milk from a London shop amid concerns the dessert is unsafe. 
A spokeswoman from Westminster City Council said it was responding to two complaints from the public over whether a shop should be selling edibles made from other people’s bodily fluids and awaiting guidance from Britain’s Food Standards Agency. The offi­cial spoke on condition of anonymity in keeping with council policy. 
The official said the ice cream, marketed as “Baby Gaga” and launched last week, is being tested with the full cooperation of The Icecreamists, the parlor marketing the dessert. 
Viruses, including hepati­tis, can be passed on through breast milk. 
Gator surprises woman and child after flood 
SAO PAULO — After flood­waters receded from her home, a Brazilian woman was shocked to find a most unwelcome house guest: a 5­foot (1.5-meter) alligator lying tamely in the living room as her 3-year-old son petted the reptile’s head. 
The animal apparently was washed inside by the high water Monday night, said Luiz Claudio Farias, a captain of firefighters in the north-central city of Parauapebas. 
When the woman went to clean up the following day, she saw the boy playing with something behind the couch, Farias said. It turned out to be a gator. 
“She snatched the boy away and called us,” he said. 
Farias said it was lucky the reptile apparently wasn't in the mood for a meal: “If he was hungry, he could have seriously hurt or even killed the boy.” 
Firefighters trapped the alligator and took it to a nearby environmental pre­serve, where they set it free. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
Leonardo Arriola will give the lecture “Electoral Violence in Democratizing States” today at 12:30 p.m. in room C103 of the Hesburgh Center. Arriola is visiting from the department of political sci­ence at the University of California, Berkeley. 
The seminfinal round of the 81st annual Bengal Bouts tournament will begin at 5 
p.m. today in the Joyce Center. The bouts raise funds for the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. Tickets are $5 for students and children and $7 for adults. 
RecSports and the Kellogg Institute for International Studies will host Festa, Dança e Bate-Papo today at 6 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center Ballroom. The event will feature Brazilian dancing, refreshments and casual con­versation. 
The Catholic Graduate Community will host the reli­gious orders panel “Exploring Diversity in Catholicism” Wednesday at 6 p.m. in 129 DeBartolo Hall. The event will feature a panel of priests from several of the religious orders represented at Notre Dame. The priests will each offer a brief introduction to his order followed by a Q & A period. 
2011 Sandeen Prize Winner Janet Kaplan will be reading from her book of poetry, Dreamlife of a Philanthropist, Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. The reading will take palce at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore and is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


FRIDAY SATURDAY 


Tuesday, March 1, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Saint Mary’s kicks off World Cinema Festival 
By MIRANDA PERETTI 
News Writer 
Saint Mary ’s Center for Women’s Intercultural Leadership (CWIL) partnered with the Intercultural Studies Program to host the World Cinema Festival. The week-long event, which began Monday night, will present films from around the world until Friday evening. 
soon after graduating col­lege, was drugged, kid ­napped and sold to a villager as his bride. 
“No film can, of course, represent an entire culture,” Derakhshani said. “These are cinematic windows and artis­tic representations created by individual filmmakers in a particular cultural context.” 
A Saint Mary ’s faculty member will introduce each 

“Our objective “These are cinem atic in organizing 
w indow s and artistic 
such an event is 

representations 
to bring to cam­pus films from created by individual different areas 
flm m akers in a 
of the world in 

particular cultural 
order to not only widen students’ context” knowledge of the art of film-
Mana Derakhshani
making, but also 

associate director
to present dif ­ferent interna -Center for Women’s tional perspec-Intercultural Leadership tives and world­views,” Associate Director of CWIL screenings, and Director of the said. 
film in the series and lead a discus­sion after ­ward. 
A new film from a differ­ent culture will be shown every day this week at 7 
p.m. in Vander Vennet at Saint Mary’s. CWIL invites everyone to come out and watch these Derakhshani 
Grouptomakebedsfrombags 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
There is more to a plastic bag than carrying groceries, senior Monica Aguirre, pres­ident of Saint Mary ’s Environmental Action Coalition (SMEAC), said. 
The Coalition will be col­lecting plastic bags to make sleeping mats and send them abroad to disaster vic­tims and several community organizations, Aguirre said. 
“We plan to contact a few 
organizations within the South Bend community, in order to see if they will take a few completed mats and hand them out to anyone liv­ing on the streets who would be interested,” she said. “They are very lightweight and weather resistant.” 
SMEAC advisor Cassie Majetic, a professor of biolo­gy, said the practice is popu­lar around the country right now. 
“I actually first heard about this idea over the summer from my mother, who is a teacher and Girl Scouts volunteer,” Majetic said. “Since then, we ’ve found numerous examples of youth and volunteer groups doing this, and SMEAC decided they want to be a part of it.” 
Right now, the group is collecting plastic bags from students outside 252 Science Hall at the College until Earth Week, which is April 17 to 23. Aguirre said stu­dents will be making the mats during the week. 
“During Earth Week, we will host a workshop teach-


ing interested students how 
t o  m a k e  t h e  
mats,  we  will  
p r o v i d e  t h e  

bags as well, each student will then be responsible for turning in the completed mats before finals week,” Aguirre said. 
Majetic said it is important for students to save all their bags because it takes 500 to 
“W e w antpeople to feelthatthey can personally m ake a difference w ith the sim ple choices they m ake.” 
Monica Aguirre president Saint Mary’s Environmental Action Coalition 
700 plastic bags to create one mat. 
“Each [plastic] bag is cut apart and the loops are tied together to make plastic yarn, which is then cro ­cheted into a mat,” Majetic said. “Each mat requires 500 to 700 individual bags, so we need as many dona­tions as we can get.” 
Aside from the bag collec­tion, the group is also con­ducting a school-wide recy­cling survey, Aguirre said. 
“Well we have a recycling survey out now,” Aguirre said. “Our club hopes to dis­cover creative, new ways we can educate the campus 
about how to recycle. So anyone can complete it, it just takes about five minutes.” 
SMEAC’s main goal is to make Saint Mary’s a more environmen ­tally -friendly campus, she said. 
“The Environmental Action Coalition is a club that works to edu­
cate the campus about envi­ronmental issues,” Aguirre said. “We want people to feel that they can personally make a difference with the simple choices they make.” 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 

Intercultural Studies Program Mana Derakhshani, said. 
The first film, “Blind Mountain,” ran Monday in Vander Vennet Theater in Saint Mary’s Student Center. The Chinese film, directed by Li Yang in 2007, centers around a young woman who 
“Light refreshments — including popcorn — will be served,” she said. 
Many of the films are in a foreign language with English subtitles, Derakhshani said. 
Contact Miranda Peretti at mperet01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 1, 2011 
The officer left a message, and him she was 14 years old. John around 2:30 a.m. from the con-sidered child molestation. The 
a man returned his call approxi-told police he communicated venience store. She told police charges against John, both class 
Court 
continued from page 1 
7-11 convenience store near her home. The store’s clerk said a young girl had been in the store about 30 to 40 minutes earlier and asked to use the phone to call her father. 
The clerk allowed the girl to use the phone, and she then left the store shortly after and got into a gray car parked near the building. 
The officer called the phone number given to him by the clerk and reached an answering machine stating, “This is AJ, and leave me a message.” 
mately 40 minutes later. The man denied knowing the girl. He said his name was Ackley John and he was a student at Notre Dame. 
At approximately 5 a.m., the Mishawaka officer received a call stating Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) located the girl on campus. The Mishawaka officer and an officer from NDSP con­tacted the girl’s parents and questioned John. 
When questioned by police, John said he met the girl on MySpace, where she was listed under a different name. He said her MySpace profile stated she was 15 years old, but she told with the girl online for several months, and they spent time together on three occasions. John said she performed oral sex on him on two occasions, including April 4 in a Grape Road parking lot. 
John said he planned to drive the girl home that morning but saw her father’s car and drove to Notre Dame. When they got to campus, they started arguing, and John told her to go talk to an NDSP officer in the area, according to court documents. 
The girl was questioned by police and confirmed she met John on MySpace. She admitted she called John to pick her up she performed oral sex on John that night, and she confirmed that they were driving to her house when they saw her father’s car and drove to Notre Dame instead. 
The Observer will not name the girl because she is a minor and the victim of a crime. 
Court documents show John, 22, was arrested on campus April 4 and taken to the St. Joseph County Jail. He posted a $3,000 bond two days later and was released April 6. 
According to Indiana state law, any sexual intercourse or deviant sexual conduct with a child under 14 years old is con-


Council 
continued from page 1 
Class of 2012 to feel fulfilled when they graduate from Notre Dame. 
“We want seniors to get the most out of their four years here and leave having done all they wanted to do,” he said. “That’s why we have our Notre Dame bucket list idea and plans for many other fun events.” 
time into campaigning before the run-off will help us to reach the majority vote we need to win.” 
Doherty said his ticket’s main campaign platform is centered on establishing a homecoming week tradition at Notre Dame, known as Domecoming. 
“We have the foundation with this year’s first Domecoming week,” he said. “Now we want to make it bigger and better.” 
Sophomores Michael Weiss, 
Julianne 
Crimmins, Mike 
“W e w antseniors to
King said, if Kress and Sean elected, he getthe m ostoutof Hannon pro-would also like ceeded to the 
their four years here 
to help prepare run-off election 
and leave having 
seniors “to go with 34.3 per-out into the real done allthey w anted cent of the vote. world.” Weiss said his 
to do.” 
“Once we ticket is anxious-graduate, we’ll ly anticipating really be living Parker King the extra day of on our own for presidential candidate campaigning. the first time, “We’re really 
Senior Class Council 
without the comforts of the dining hall or any of the other things that Notre Dame has to offer,” he said. “We want to help seniors get ready for that transition.” 
Sophomores Kevin Doherty, Megan Rodts, Kim Neary and Nolan Welsh advanced to the Junior Class Council run-off election with 41.4 percent of the vote. 
Doherty said his ticket’s biggest success has been in talking face-to-face with other members of the Class of 2013. 
“This shows that people like what we’ve been saying and what we have to offer,” he said. “Hopefully putting the extra B felonies, are punished with a prison sentence between six and 20 years, with an advisory sen­tence of 10 years. 
Brown said the University does everything possible to help law enforcement. 
“When the University is made aware of off-campus incidents involving possible violations of the law, we provide any assis­tance requested by local law enforcement agencies and are confident that these agencies will ensure that justice is done under the law,” he said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
excited to get 
the extra day to talk to more people and share all of our great ideas,” he said. 
Weiss said he is really confi­dent in his ticket’s platform. 
“We’re pushing for better apparel, off-campus dances and a class trip to a Chicago Cubs game in the spring,” he said. 
Freshmen Nicholas Schilling, Paul DiGiovanni, Mary Clare Rigali and Margaret Preuss proceeded to the run-off elec­tion after garnering 36.5 per­cent of the vote. 
Schilling said his ticket will focus on mobilizing more voters in Wednesday’s run-off. 
“We want other members of the Class of 2014 to feel like they’ve had a significant say in the results,” he said. 
Schilling said he is looking forward to being a part of the run-off. 
“Our biggest strength is in the specificity of our ideas for next year,” he said. “The different events we have planned, like Domerfest 2.0, are what’s really unique about our ticket.” 
Freshmen Anthony Krenselewski, Lizzie Helpling, Jackie Picache and Alesandra Mendoza advanced to the Sophomore Class Council run­off election with 27.1 percent of the vote. 
Krenselewski said his ticket’s focus is on bringing unity to the Class of 2014. 
“That’s what we’ve been about the whole campaign and that’s what were going to con­tinue to be about heading in to the run-off,” he said. 
Krenselewski said he hopes to build a stronger identity for next year’s sophomore class. 
“We hope we can bring our class together through a num­ber of different events,” he said. “Our best ideas are cen­tered on the concept of greater unity.” 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 


Tuesday, March 1, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Groupons 
continued from page 1 
own community, and from what I’ve read, it’s also a cheap form of advertising for the business.” 
Recent Groupon deals in the South Bend area have included Italian cuisine and salon, paint-ball and tanning services, O’Neill said. 
Sophomore Patty Walsh said Groupon has introduced her to businesses she hadn’t tried before, such as Indulgence Pastry Shop & Café in South Bend. 
“[Groupon] gives me an excuse to eat off campus more because if I have a coupon I’m more likely to go, and I think I’m getting more use for my money because [I’m] getting deals,” Walsh said. “For exam­ple, when [my friends and I] went to Indulgence, we paid $7, but we got $15 worth of food.” 
Groupon offers one deal every day, and each deal is available for 24 hours. Customers can sign up on groupon.com to receive daily e-mails specifying that day’s deal, O’Neill said. 
“The collective buying con­cept comes into play because each deal has a tipping point — a minimum number of users that are needed to activate the deal and make it officially ‘on,’” she said. “We encourage users to spread the word about deals via e-mail, Facebook [and] Twitter so all can enjoy.” 
Sophomore Charlie O’Leary said he likes that Groupon deals are easy to purchase. 
“They send the deals from South Bend right to my e-mail, so I know they’re applicable to me, and all it takes to buy one is a few clicks,” O’Leary said. 
O’Leary said he also uses an iPod application for Groupon. The application allows users to visit Groupon’s mobile website and use a given code to pur­chase deals. 
Customers can also visit the website or follow their cities’ Facebook or Twitter pages to see local deals, O’Neill said. 
Walsh said Groupon rewards users for recommending deals to other people. 
“Groupon has a thing where if you recommend it, you get money back, so the more peo­ple I send it to, the more I can benefit,” Walsh said. “If I send them an e-mail and they click on the link, then it bounces back to me, so that’s pretty great.” 
Yanik, Walsh and O’Leary said Groupon benefits college students. 
“I think Groupons are great for college students living on a budget, especially ones that [are] offered from restaurants,” Yanik said. “Restaurants usual­ly don’t have an equivalent of a store sale. However, with Groupons, you can get that same satisfaction of a great deal.” 
Groupon is comparable to its competitors, such as Living Social, O’Leary said. 
“I think it’s an equally good service. The idea of having the online gift card that’s accessible and specific to my geographic area is really special,” O’Leary said. 
Walsh said she’s grateful for the excuse to escape dining on campus. 
“As somebody who doesn’t appreciate the magic of the Notre Dame food system, I defi­nitely appreciate [Groupon],” Walsh said. 
There are currently over 30,000 Groupon users in the South Bend area, including Notre Dame students. 
O’Neill said Groupon was launched in Chicago in November 2008 and expanded to South Bend in January. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
Disease 
continued from page 1 
worldwide.” 
Haldar said everyone at the event now has the responsibili­ty to go out and raise aware­ness about rare disease. 
“My charge to this group is to go out and be ambassadors in order to facilitate the process of rare disease research,” she said. 
Many different labs, as well as both undergraduate and graduates, attended the event. 
Mary Claire Sullivan, a first year MBA student at the Mendoza College of Business, became involved in rare dis­ease research through an inter­disciplinary class project that combined science and business. She helped take the research and what is happening in the lab and turning it into a busi­ness. Sullivan said her passion is to use business to create social change. 

“The body of knowledge and passionate individuals can make an impact for those peo­ple that have no hope,” she said. 
Aaron Patzwahl is an under­graduate student taking a clini­cal research class focusing on Niemen Pick Type C disease 
(NPC). The class patient data and creates a numer­ical value that can track the progression of the disease. 
“I got interest­ed in the class through [Dean of the College of Science Gregory Crawford] and his bike trip this summer,” he said. “I thought it would be a way 
analyzes 
“The body of know ledge and passionate individuals can m ake an im pactfor those people w ho have no hope.” 
Mary Claire Sullivan graduate student 
ing biochemi­cal tools to help study disease. She, along with other students, is using inter­disciplinary techniques to find ways to study and someday possi­bly treat NPC. 
Emmanuel AduGyamfi, a chemistry and biochemistry 


to take my science and do something move socially con­scious with it.” 
Senior Nina Farivari took the clinical research class in the fall of her junior year. She became so interested in NPC that she worked in Dr. Forbes Porter’s lab this summer. Porter — of the National Institutes of Health 
— is currently running the only clinical trial of NPC in the coun­try. 
“For me, it was a way to put a face and a family to the dis­ease system,” she said. 
Farivari attended the national conference for NPC last August. Attending the lectures by the leading researchers in the field and getting to see the families outside a clinical setting were the best parts of the confer­ence, she said. 
Katherine Byrd, a third year chemistry graduate student, is currently working on synthesiz­
graduate student, is research­ing the Ebola virus, a highly contagious disease with an almost 90 percent morality rate during outbreaks. 
“We use an interdisciplinary approach to try and understand how the proteins of the Ebola virus replicate,” AduGyamfi said. “Hopefully, we can use our findings for other kinds of rare disease.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 6 Tuesday, March 1, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A pandemic 
As I sat in CoMo last week, trying in vain to think of something significant to say about Voltaire, my writer’s block was the least of my concerns. Much more bothersome was the aural assault I was enduring. 
The offender, sit-TroyMathew ting directly next to me, was mouth-Assistant breathing. That is, Scene Editor he was breathing heavily, in a Neanderthal-like manner. If you are familiar with “Hey Arnold,” he sounded something like that kid with the glasses who Helga always decks in the face. I wanted nothing more than to emulate Helga in this situation. 
My irritation subsided, and I gained perspective on the situation. Perhaps this instance would be like swinging a baseball bat with a donut. If I could concentrate on the difficult material while enduring this obnoxious noise, then writing on the test would be a breeze. 
It wasn’t. Throughout the test, my ears were again violated by the sound of a female’s raucous respiratory cycle. I tried my best to block out the noise, but had a rough go with the test despite my efforts (I need a scapegoat for my less-than-stellar performance, and it’s you, mouth-breather girl). While leaving this class, I pondered the severity of this apparent mouth-breath­ing pandemic and its important social repercussions. Being tuned in to the issue, I made an effort to better observe mouth-breathing habits and draw conclusions. Luckily we are in the midst of cold and flu season, so in no time I had enough mouth-breathing observations to write a freaking disser­tation. 
The most prominent observation I made is that mouth-breathing results in immediate and significant loss in intellectual cred. I cannot take you seriously if you are breathing, mouth agape, while carrying on with your var­ious activities. I associate mouth breathing with Neanderthals, dogs and stereotypical sitcom or cartoon nerds. If you are an offensive mouth-breather, I immediately associate you with one of the above categories. Another observa­tion I made about mouth breathing is that it is does not discriminate. Males and females alike practice this vexing technique. Likewise, people of varying sizes and ages can be offenders. Finally, mouth breathing is often accompanied by other unpleasant mouth-related sounds. 
For example, CoMo kid also engaged in a bizarre mouth-smacking motion that resulted in a noise like he was chewing a banana. Thus, by becoming conscious of their mouth breathing, transgressors can likely also save themselves from committing a host of other horrible mouth-related noises. Breathing is widely assumed to be an inherent trait. People often conclude, “We come out of the womb breathing, it shouldn’t be a process which requires attention and regulation.” 
Incorrect. Mouth-breathing can have unthinkable implications on your public appearance, so beware. It is my hope that through attentiveness, and per­haps cough drops and nasal deconges­tant, this campus can be entirely free of mouth-breathers. When that day arrives, I will have to think of another excuse for why the grade on my test is less than desirable. I’m sure I’ll come up with something passable. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and 
n o t  n e c e s s a r i l y  t ho s e  of  Th e  
Observer.  
C o n t a c t  Tro y  M a t h e w  a t  
tmathew2@nd.edu  

What are the odds? 
I love numbers. How could anyone not? Numbers are so much more precise than their linguistic counterparts, words. Whereas a word could mean any number of things based on context and tone, num­bers will always mean the exact 
AndyZiccarelli 
same thing. You can take them at face 
Moment of 
value. 
Inertia 
The other wonder­ful thing about num­bers is their universal nature. There are over 3000 different languages that are spoken in the world today, rendering worldwide communication near impossi­ble without significant translation and effort. However, numbers and mathemat­ics are able to bridge the gap that is creat­ed by spoken language. The laws of math­ematics, physics and probability apply to every corner of the world, regardless of language. 
Perhaps my fondness for math has to do with the way my brain operates. I do not operate in shades of gray, rather my mind tends to see things in terms of black and white. Either things are right or they are wrong. That mindset is probably why I have struggled with literature and compo­sition for most of my life. Writing papers where there is no right or wrong answer never appealed to me, and it didn't make much sense, either. 
I might represent an extreme perspec­tive, but it is amazing to think about just how much of our life is governed by math­ematics. The laws of physics apply to everything that we interact with, and they are governing over you this very instant as you are reading this. The next time you go on the Internet, realize that your com­puter, at its core, is simply transferring a long string of zeros and ones into a medi­um that we can understand as a user. During your walk to class today, notice how everything around you is laid out in a geometric fashion. Perhaps most interest­ingly, the idea of uncertainty and proba­bility rules over our daily lives in a way that we do not realize. 
In the movie “(500) Days of Summer,” protagonist Tom Hansen falls for his co­worker, Summer Finn. In the end, though (spoiler alert!), their relationship didn't last and Summer ends up marrying a guy who she happened to meet in a coffee shop as she was eating lunch one day. The narrator remarks, “Coincidence, that’s all anything ever is, nothing more that coincidence.” That might be an over­statement, but it highlights the fact that a lot our lives can be defined in terms of probability and the likelihood of events. There is a very, very small percentage of the population that one would consider as “marriage material.” So what is the prob­ability that one of those people was in the same coffee shop (out of all of the coffee shops in L.A.), at the same time as Summer. Not only that, what are the odds that she is reading a book that he is inter­ested in and that, because of seeing that, he decides to go over and talk to her? The probability of all of those events happen­ing and coming together is very small. 
The wonderful thing about life, howev­er, is that it is defined by the extraordi­nary events, not by the ordinary. We are taught in statistics class that things will randomly fluctuate back and forth around a mean. Sometimes these things are fur­ther away from the mean and sometimes they are very close, but everything will eventually tend to approach that average. This is extremely useful for predicting future events from what we know about the past. For math nerds like me, it brings a certain level of order and predictability to a world that is extremely uncertain and full of variables. We think we understand what is going on, or at least what should go on. 
But every so often, an event blows up our conventional wisdom and simply defies the odds. The odds tell us that no, you will not meet your future spouse today. But how magical would it be if you did? Notre Dame hadn’t had a snow day in decades, so what were the odds that the school would cancel class a few weeks ago due to snow? How many people grow to be almost 7 feet tall, and still possess the athleticism necessary to play basket­ball at a high level? Not many, but we have a collection of them on campus, and they are currently residing among the top 10 teams in the country and are gearing up for a deep run into the tournament. 
Life can predictable. Things tend to unfold as we expect, and most days come and pass without much of a surprise. Keep your eyes open, though, because you don’t get any warning when things are about to defy the odds and impact you for the rest of your life. 
Andy Ziccarelli is a senior majoring in civil engineering. He can be reached at aziccare@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 
Social networking no substitute to transparency 
Social networking has ushered in an age where individuals can be everywhere at once. Through Twitter and Facebook pages, what someone had to eat or which activity they are partaking in is relayed to hundreds, thousands or sometimes millions of peo­ple within a matter of seconds. 
It has even become a tool for use by EditorialStaff top-level politicians and administra­tors to tap into and communicate The News Record information to constituents. President Barack Obama’s 2008 campaign and –– closer to home –– University of Cincinnati Provost Santa J. Ono are just two exam­ples of those in charge utilizing the phenomenon. 
Ono alone has Twitter and Facebook pages where he often touts the latest happenings at UC, whether on the basketball court, in the classroom or on the pages of The News Record. 
The glut of accessible information provided by these social net­working sources, however, should not be mistaken for trans­parency on the part of those in charge. Unfortunately, it often is. 
While you may find Ono praising UC head football coach Butch Jones on his latest recruiting class or reminding his Twitter fol­lowers that the deadline is nearing for UC’s College of Education, Criminal Justice and Human Services scholarship applications, you won’t find him addressing issues of rising tuition or university budget deficits on his Twitter feed. 
You’ll find President Obama tweeting about finding somewhere to watch his State of the Union address or what he plans on ask­ing Congress for during the address, but that information has already been presented to the public via other outlets. 
In other words, it’s nothing new, nor is it really transparent. But it gives those following such figures the impression that they are plugged in the latest happenings and privy to inside information. 
Another example is UC President Gregory Williams’ visit to the offices of The News Record upon his appointment as president last year. Those of us at the newspaper were excited at the prospect that Wiliams’ would answer our questions about the hot-button issues on campus and, in essence, be transparent about his plans for UC’s future. 
After the meeting, we were left holding a bag of no new infor­mation. Williams gave us no new insight, yet his actions of meet­ing with the newspaper could impress upon onlookers that he was attempting to be open in his dialogue. 
The same is being done with social networking. 
To his defense, Ono has put himself out there as the most visi­ble provost in UC’s history using social networking. It is likely that more students recognize his name than the previous UC provost, Anthony Perzigian. Ono is allowing himself to be accessible to students, an effort worth admiring. 
Nor are we suggesting that President Obama disclose state secrets or Ono present every aspect of UC’s finances on Twitter. 
What we are suggesting, however, is that social networking not become the substitute for true accountability and openness on the part of those in charge. 
And that the public not accept it as such. 
This editorial originally ran in the Feb. 24 edition of The News Record, serving the University of Cincinnati. 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“There’s an old saying about those who forget history. I don’t remember it, but it’s good.” 
Stephen Colbert
U.S. political satirist and comedian 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Experience is the name everyonegives to their mistakes.” 
Oscar Wilde Irish writer and poet 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Tuesday, March 1, 2011 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

The Anti-M.R.S. 
When I saw a YouTube video featuring a 5-year-old girl insisting she must have a job before she gets married on a friend’s Facebook wall, I commented, “She’s so Saint Mary’s.” As a senior at Saint Mary’s, I meant this very sincerely. I have watched my friends over the last semester be accepted into Ivy League graduate programs, accept incredible job offers, get published in journals, and, generally speaking, achieve great things. When an acquaintance of mine saw my comment, he said “No, that girl is not Saint Mary’s.” He claimed that stereo­typically, Saint Mary’s women are not on a mission to find a job, they “are trying to find Notre Dame husbands; in pursuit of their M.R.S. degree.” In making this claim, a claim that would no doubt infuriate the 1,600-plus women of Saint Mary’s College as it infuriated me, he diminished us to nothing but girls who twiddle their thumbs by day and man-hunt by night. Not only is it appalling that this idea pervades the Notre Dame campus, but the idea that any 21st century woman goes to col­lege simply to meet a man is both archaic and demeaning. Newsflash: The M.R.S. degree does not exist, and if it did, attending an all-women’s college to get it is an idea that’s a lit­tle more progressive than I would expect anyone from Notre Dame to be. Domer boys, we’re working just as hard as you. We can be executives, lawyers and dentists, too. 
Emily Newton 
senior off campus Feb. 27 

Gingers have friends 
In Monday’s Ice Breaker, Tierney Roche declared that Harry Potter was unrealistic because she does not believe a ginger can have two friends. As a ginger I take great offense to this. We gingers have battled with the sun for centuries. We sur­vived the Potato Famine. Throughout history, we’ve been sub­jected to discrimination and fearful prejudice. We have been declared soulless. But today, I will take no more. I along with the ginger community would like to dispel myths about the gin­ger being. 
First, despite what South Park says, we do have souls. Yes, I know it is hard to believe, but it is true. We are just like you. 
Finally, we do have friends. I can name them off for you. There’s Mike, Nate and uhhh that girl that sits next to me in philosophy class. 
I would like to end with a new idea. I would like to start the club “SPF 100,” the club for gingers and others to learn about the ginger culture and the pain that we have suffered through­out the years. I hope you all have been educated today, so go out and hug a ginger, we need all the love we can get. 
Sean Fitzgerald 
freshman Dillon Feb. 28 
Changing the game 
On Feb. 8, 2011, my father, Peter Grant, met a tragic end by taking his own life, just a week and two days before Dave Duerson’s suicide. Our family donated my father’s brain and spinal cord to the Boston University study of Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE), the same study to which Duerson bequeathed his brain. My father, a 1983 graduate of Notre Dame, not only was a classmate of Duerson, but also lived in Grace Hall and personally knew him. These are not their only similarities. My father was not a Notre Dame football player, but he was an enthusiastic high school and interhall football and hockey player. During his high school sports career, my father sustained seven “major” concussions, with at least two extended hospital stays. 
CTE has been in the national media spotlight in recent weeks, but I want to stress that even though the primary focus of this study is professional and collegiate athletes, the dis­ease potentially affects anyone who has suffered head trauma. My father is, to my knowl­edge, the only member of the study not associated with collegiate or professional sports. I would like my father’s donation to bring awareness of CTE to sports at all levels. I believe if a significant effort is made that sports such as football and hockey can adapt to reduce head trauma in a fashion that does not take away the integrity of the game. 
This is a vital and necessary cause needed to be pursued not only by the NFL and NCAA, but by all sports associations that deal with these injuries, whether high school or even younger. I know Notre Dame will spread awareness of this issue, now having two alumni in the Boston University study. Notre Dame stands on the principles of community and faith. These principles combined with the University’s devotion to football make me firmly believe we can expect an increase in awareness about this issue. 
As a final thought, there are no words to express how thankful my family and I am to this University. We understand more than ever what it means to be a member of the Notre Dame family. This University truly does live up to, in every way possible, its values. My family and I could not have gotten through the most difficult days of our lives without the tremendous and continued support that goes above and beyond anything we could have ever imagined. Thank you Notre Dame and thank you to everyone who has shown us support or kept us in their thoughts, it means more to us than you could ever know. 
Katie Grant 
senior off campus Feb. 27 
Non-athlete shirts a reminder 
Most of you have seen the “Irish Non-Athlete” shirts around campus, and I’m glad that they have stirred up discussion. I’m fed up with everyone assuming I’m an athlete. Just because I’m a black student at Notre Dame doesn’t mean I play sports. I hope the shirt will serve as a reminder to everyone to think before they assume. 
Holden Lombard 
sophomore off campus Feb. 27 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The Observer 
Scene

page 8 Tuesday, March 1, 2011 


wore a 1960s inspired voluminous Following the nude trend was an ure was accentuated by the flattering 
By COURTNEY COX 
ponytail updo and kept the makeup almost unrecognizable Mandy Moore. dress and her hair was pulled back 
Assistant Scene Editor 
minimalistic save for thickly-lined Moore is most often highlighting her glowing face. She 

The stars came 
out to celebrate tal-eyes. The emerald earrings are remi-d r e s s e d was dripping in diamonds and yet ent in film Sunday, but the real niscent of something her smile was the focal point of the winners of Angelina Jolie has previ-entire ensemble. the night ously worn, but the One of the most controversial were not smaller size was just choices at the Oscars was Cate necessari-right and did not Blanchett in Givenchy Haute ly the best attempt to compete Couture. The intricately beaded actors and with the eye-catching lilac dress was without question actresses hairdo. 
the most incredible work of art on but the Another star sport-the red carpet. Though she may individuals ing Marchesa was not win an award for choosing the w h o Halle Berry. Her most wearable or the most effort-brought old nude tulle and less outfit, Blanchett was the most Hollywood sequin mermaid fashionable person in attendance glamour to gown was clearly and was a beacon of avant-garde in the red car-from the same a sea of safe dresses. pet. designer of The Academy Awards are the ulti-
A glowing Steinfeld’s youth-mate showcase for celebrity fashion, N a t a l i e ful look, but and this year there were few, if any, Portman paid Berry was noth-real disappointments. homage to ing if not “Black Swan” sophisticated. Contact Coutney Cox at costume She wore her ccox3@nd.edu designers hair in its sig-Kate and nature tou ­L a u r a sled pixie, Mulleavy by and her wearing a cus-makeup was tom designed flawless as dress from their line Rodarte. The d o w n plum gown with an empire waist in jeans and T-shirts was perfect for accommodating so it was a welcome departure her growing baby-bump. Her pur-to see her looking impeccably ple and gold Tiffany & Co. earrings chic. She wore a nude tulle and soft wavy hair served to accen-Monique Lhuillier gown with a tuate her chic ensemble. smattering of sequins across 
Portman’s “Black Swan” co-star her torso and arms. It was Mila Kunis was radiant on the red nowhere near casual and a carpet in a lavender Elie Saab Haute perfect fit for the Oscars red Couture dress. The dress only added carpet. to the effortless beauty for which Gwyneth Paltrow was a Kunis is known. Though the dress vision in a silver Calvin was accentuated in lace, it was in no Klein column dress. The way prim or fussy. It was instead ele-dress, though fluid and gant in the most understated way seemingly unforgiving, possible. complimented her body 
Newcomer Hailee Steinfeld has perfectly. The actress received rave reviews for her red paired the dress with carpet fashion at the Golden Globes accessories including and Screen Actors Guild awards, and earrings, a brooch and she did not disappoint this weekend. a ring from Louis She looked age appropriate in a tea Vuitton, and they length Marchesa dress made of lay-served as a welcomed ers of nude tulle and sequins. Her burst of color in an fresh fashion sense is a much-wel-otherwise mono ­comed breath of air. 
chromatic palate. 

Presenter Reese Witherspoon Jennifer Hudson showed up in a simple black column has truly never dress from Armani Privé. The dress looked better in a itself was simple but the styling tangerine Atelier Versace choices made it a home run. She always. gown. Her newly slimmed down fig-
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene

Tuesday, March 1, 2011 page 9 

By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Scene Writer 

The 83rd Annual Academy Awards was a night lacking surprises. “The King’s Speech” took home major awards, the Academy continued to rush people off the stage by playing music during their acceptance speeches and Billy Crystal remained the funniest man alive when inside the Kodak Theatre. 
This year’s ceremonies, though, felt distinctly different than their predecessors. In an effort to draw in a larger, younger audience, James Franco and Anne Hathaway co-host­ed the event. The two made no effort to hide this, frequently refer­ring to the new hip Oscars. There was even an Autotune video with clips from “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1,” “Toy Story 3,” “The Social Network” and “The Twilight Saga: Eclipse” to amuse any young viewers. Their parents, though, and most of the audience were probably just left feeling con­fused. 
The 2011 Oscars weren’t all about being hip and youthful, though. The ceremony paid homage to days gone by with clips, references and mon­tages from past hallmark winners, including “Gone with the Wind,” the blockbuster hit “Titanic” and The Lord of the Rings. This year’s cere­monies handled the Academy Awards history with care, using these films as testaments to cine­matic achievement and as examples that influenced the contemporary films honored that night. 
Hathaway and Franco gave their best effort to add a little youthful energy to the show. Their opening clip, a film montage in which they travel through Alec Baldwin’s dreams to get tips on hosting the Oscars, was a fantastic way to start the night. However, from there their overly-scripted dialogue became stunted at best. The two lacked any serious chemistry, but played off each other fairly well. 
Franco has excellent comedic tim­ing and an amazing dead face, but Hathaway became a little over-eager at times. She could take a few point­ers from the more laid-back Franco. However, her outfits were incredible and her solo singing number wasn’t half bad, though she is still no Hugh Jackman. 
In the major categories, Melissa Leo dropped the F-bomb while accepting the Best Supporting Actress award for “The Fighter.” 
the night of the 

ultimately tri-Golden Globe 
umph Sunday? Awards, and the 
One could offer outlook for the 
cynical reasons, Oscars was very 
saying it was different. 
simply riding the The favorite at 
wave of support that time was 
the film had director David 
acquired after Fincher and 
sweeping every screenwriter 
major award cer-Aaron Sorkin’s 
emony after the “The Social 
Globes. Or, audi-Network,” 
ences looked at which chroni­
the deeper mean­cled the birth ing of the film. of Facebook 
At its heart, “The and what the King’s Speech” is site’s creator, about a man strug­the now infa-gling to find his The time -delay at ABC saved America’s audiences from hearing it, and Leo seemed genuinely shocked that it slipped out. 
Christian Bale gave a charming acceptance speech for Best Supporting Actor for “The Fighter” in which he referenced his past mis­takes with that same F-bomb but ended with an endearing note to his daughter. 
Aaron Sorkin gave one of the best speeches of the night for Best Adapted Screenplay for “The Social Network,” talking right through the orchestra’s efforts to kick him off the stage while David Seidler’s speech was heartfelt and hysterical for Best Original Screenplay for “The King’s Speech.” Lee Unkrich’s speech for “Toy Story 3” for Best Animated Feature was similarly heartwarming. 
For someone who just won an act­ing award, Natalie Portman gave a surprisingly jumbled acceptance speech for Best Actress for “Black Swan.” However, something about her pregnancy glow makes her end­lessly charming. Colin Firth, on the 
other hand, was both giddy and understated in his Best Actor speech for “The King’s Speech.” His charm is never-ending. 
The biggest upset of the night came in the Best Director category, when Tom Hooper won for “The King’s Speech.” Many thought that David Fincher would win for “The Social Network,” but Hooper cer­tainly deserved the achievement. In a night of shout-outs to mom, his was the best. 
“The King’s Speech” won the big prize at the end of the night, Best Picture. The Academy topped off an incredible awards season for the British film that has swept the world up in its story. 
So while the tone of the ceremony was different, the point of the Oscars remained the same — honor films and those involved in them with a Hollywood extravaganza. Franco and Hathaway may have tried to draw in the younger audi­ence, but their hosting was only good, not great. In fact, the numbers so far indicate that this year’s Oscar telecast is down in numbers from the last. If they really want to bring in the big numbers, maybe the Academy should just nominate the last Harry Potter film at next year’s awards. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
There was little surprise at Sunday’s Academy Awards when Steven Spielberg announced “The King’s Speech” the Best Picture winner, capping off a spectacular award season for the British film starring Colin Firth as the stammering King George VI. 
The film had racked up all the major guild awards and Colin Firth’s heart-wrenching performance ren­dered the film vir­tually unstop­pable. But rewind six weeks, or heck, to almost painful manner. “The Social Network” is a movie that Notre Dame students can easily relate to, and is prob­ably the first movie to capture the new digital age and critique the new methods of communication. The film uses its ver­sion of a caustic and socially-awkward Mark Zuckerberg to illustrate the shift in how we now interact with one another. 

“The Social Network” offers a commen­tary on the multimedia world we all now inhabit. It shows how one Harvard stu­dent’s difficulties in connecting with peo­
ple on a personal level led to the creation of something so immense and consum­ing, that Facebook now functions as both a noun and a verb in contemporary English vernacular. 
So why did “The King’s Speech” 
mous Mark Zuckerberg, personally sacri­ficed to make his vision a reality. 
The film is incredibly relevant as it examines events that happened in the past decade (the film opens in 2003 at Harvard) and it has Shakespearean over­tones as Zuckerberg, for all intents and purposes, betrayed everyone, including his best friends, on his road to success and fortune. Meanwhile, Facebook grows from a website into a cultural movement that reaches across the globe. 
When it comes down to it, “The King’s Speech,” with its uplifting message and royal subject, is a far more enjoyable film to watch. Enjoyable. Not necessarily bet­ter. 
Last year, the Academy named the grit­ty war drama “The Hurt Locker” Best Picture over James Cameron’s smash blockbuster “Avatar.” Why? Over the past decade, the Academy has begun to shy away from simply handing out awards to the crowd-pleasers and instead has focused on rewarding films that say something more about what’s happening in the greater culture. 
“The Hurt Locker” brought home the real life drama of modern warfare in an 
voice. Firth played the king as a tormented man thrust into a position of power he never desired. He tries over several years to lose his stam­mer, and at the culmination of the film, he successfully delivers a moving speech to his countrymen on the brink of World War II. 
Few today would believe that eloquent words, especially from a figurehead such as the English monarch, could solve a nation’s problems. But King George’s inspiring journey perhaps struck a chord with audiences because it moved people in the theater the same way King George moved his contemporaries. 
Perhaps audiences wanted to sit for two hours and believe that words could bring about change and unite a country in a time of crisis. Perhaps everyone needed to believe, especially in today’s uncertain world, that it was all that sim­ple. 
The views expressed in this articleare those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Molly Madden at 
mmadden3@nd.edu 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 1, 2011 
NHL 

Blue Jackets trade Klesla to Phoenix for Upshall, Lepisto 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — The Phoenix Coyotes needed a big, stay-at-home defenseman to fill in while Ed Jovanovski is out with an injury. The Columbus Blue Jackets wanted more speed and financial flexi­bility. 
Both sides got what they wanted a couple of hours before the NHL trade deadline ended on Monday. 
The Blue Jackets dealt their last original player, defense-man Rostislav Klesla, to the Coyotes for left wing Scottie Upshall and defenseman Sami Lepisto. Columbus also includ­ed minor-league forward Dane Byers, who was acquired from the New York Rangers in November. 
“When Ed Jovanovski got injured, we felt very vulnerable on our blue line, especially in the defensive-matchup, penal­ty-killing role,” Coyotes GM Don Maloney said. “We searched for what we hoped was a top-four defenseman who could match up against good players. This deal really came up today and it was a case where we had to give to get.” 
The Blue Jackets and Coyotes are both fighting for spots in the crowded Western Conference playoff race. 
“They were looking for a left-handed, bigger, stronger shut-down-type of guy. That sort of fit their need,” Blue Jackets general manager Scott Howson said. “And we wanted to improve our mobility and maybe give us some offense.” 
Klesla, hampered by injuries the past two seasons, was the expansion club's first-round pick (fourth overall) in the 2000 player draft. The 28­year-old had three goals and seven assists in 45 games this year with a plus-10 rating. 
Klesla has size (6-foot-3, 221 pounds) to help the Coyotes' blue line. Jovanovski is recov­ering from an orbital-bone fracture. 
“It's been a long time. I've really enjoyed my time in Columbus,” Klesla said on TSN. “I met a lot of great people. The only thing that wasn't great was that we weren't able to bring a winning team. I wish them the best.” 
The Coyotes felt that the deal would be a tonic for Klesla. 
“It's a fresh start for him,” said Maloney, who has Klesla's first coach with the Blue Jackets, Dave King, on his coaching staff. “We felt we had a good insight into the player and the personality and the fit with our group because so much of what we do is chem­istry and mix. We look at him as a tandem with Mike Rozsival that can match up with anyone in the West and straighten up our penalty killing a little.” 
Klesla has three years remaining on a contract that pays him almost $3 million a year, through the 2013-14 sea­son. 
“Well, it was hard to move Rusty,” Howson said. “(He is) a good person, really good in the community, been a really good player for us. That wasn't an easy deal. It was just a case where the needs fit each team.” 
Just before the deadline, the Blue Jackets also dealt left wing Tom Sestito to the Philadelphia Flyers for former Columbus center Greg Moore and center prospect Michael Chaput. 
The Blue Jackets need quick­er players to plug into coach Scott Arniel's attack. In addi­tion, Howson was looking to add to the club's depth while stocking up on younger play­ers. 
Upshall, 27, was a No. 1 pick in the 2002 draft (sixth over­all). He had 16 goals and 11 assists this season and 80 goals and 85 assists in 340 career games with Nashville, Philadelphia and Phoenix. The Blue Jackets, badly in need of players with an edge, coveted a player who was tough in addi­tion to having offensive skills. 
Upshall last week was sus­pended two games by the league for a hit on Flyers defenseman Oskars Bartulis. Upshall received a two-minute boarding penalty, and Bartulis left the game with a shoulder injury. 
Lepisto, a 26-year old from Finland, has four goals and seven assists this year and five goals and six assists in 131 career games. He was a third-round pick (66th overall) in the 2004 draft by Washington. 

Upshall, making $2.25 mil­lion this year, is an unrestrict­ed free agent after the season. Lepisto, a restricted free agent after the season, is making $800,000. 
“(The trade) will give us some flexibility as we move forward into the long-term future,” Howson said. “But this was about now, really, in trying to give our team a little boost as we try and make the play­offs.” 
MLB 

Crawford makes debut, Ortiz homers in Red Sox win 
allowed one run in two think I did a very good job homer. Although, it’s spring train-
Associated Press 
innings — on a Jason Kubel as a first outing.” “Good arm, great arm, ” ing, Francona was happy 

FORT MYERS, Fla. — Not homer in the first. He struck Twins starter Nick Gardenhire said. “The ball with the swing Ortiz took. much to remember from out one and walked one, Blackburn gave up two hits really came out of his hand. “I think it counts, ” Carl Crawford’s spring train-throwing 14 of 25 pitches for in two scoreless innings, I mean the ball was flying Francona said. “I’d much ing debut for the Boston Red strikes. throwing 18 of 28 pitches for out there today. But even the rather see guys swing good Sox. “Very good velocity. That strikes. pitch the than not good. 
The $142 million man was was exciting to see that, “He went right at the hit-guy went The way they go 0 for 3 in especially early ters,” Twins manager Ron deep on was through spring Monday’s 7-on, ” Francona Gardenhire said. “Good not a bad training, there’s 6 win over said. “Very velocity and good move -pitch. It was no way, you
“The ballreally cam e

t h e aggressive with ment.” down, with don’t see it very
“Ithink itcounts.I’d
Minnesota his fastball. Had Blackburn is adding a slid-an angle outofhis hand .Ilike often where Twins. m uch rather see guys some good life to er back to his repertoire fol-and good guys get hot,
to see thatvelocity” 

David Ortiz sw ing good than not it. I was excited lowing a 10-12 record last velocity. I because they hit a three-about that.” year. like to see don’t play every
sw ing good.” 
run homer, M a t s u z a k a , “Last year, I didn’t have a that veloci -Ron Gardenhire day. They’re not and Josh who has battled great season,” he said. “But ty.” manager supposed to. If Reddick hit Terry Francona control issues, I learned how to pitch with-L u k e Minnesota Twins we played David a two -run was satisfied out my slider, which is some-Hughes hit a a week in a row,
manager
drive. with his appear-thing that I haven ’t been t w o -r u n he would proba-
Boston Red Sox
“First time ance. able to do for my entire homer in bly find his I’ve ever “As it ’s the career. Hopefully adding the third swing, but he’d seen Carl in first outing of that slider will make it a lit-against knuckleballer Tim find it in February. We need a Boston the spring sea -tle easier, won’t have to rely Wakefield. guys to grow into it or build uniform, so that was good,” son, the fastball is running on the sinker as much, kind Ortiz’s homer to right field into it. I was excited because Red Sox manager Terry pretty well,” he said through of mix it up, give me an came with Jacoby Ellsbury he kept that ball fair. He Francona said. “It’s just two interpreter Kenta Yamada. extra pitch.” and Dustin Pedroia on base. kept his hands in and didn’t games into spring training.” “That’s something I’m very Loser James Hoey gave up Ortiz has gotten off to slow hook it foul. It was a pretty 
Daisuke Matsuzaka confident with. Overall, I Reddick ’s seventh -inning starts the past two years. swing.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
"She is the one they made me talk Glee -Brittany Quotes to when they found out I was keep-

WANTED NOTICES FOR RENT PERSONALS ing the bird in my locker" 
"I don't brush my teeth, I rinse my UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't mouth with soda after I eat. I was ——————————————— 

If you or someone you care about OFF-CAMPUS Housing. Best luxu-go it alone. Notre Dame has many pretty sure Dr. Pepper was a den-ND/SMC couple in Dallas, Texas has been sexually assaulted, we ry options at Dublin Village, Irish resources in place to assist you. If tist." "People think I went on vacation, seeks full-time nanny for 15 months can help. For more information, visit Crossings, Oak Hill and North you or someone you love needs but actually I spent all summer lost beginning June 2011. If interested, Notre Dames website: Shore Club. CES Property confidential support or assistance, in the sewers" please email http://csap.nd.edu Management. Call 574-298-4206, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. ——————————————— hdawson1@hotmail.com. www.cespm.info For more information, visit ND's Will: "What's a ballad?" ——————————————— 
website at: http://pregnancysup-Will: "What's a duet?" port@nd.edu Brittany: Its a male duck Brittany: "A blanket" ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Tuesday, March 1, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
Irish still have a shot to finish first in the Big East with a win 
IrishRecord 

over Connecticut and a continued from page 16 Pittsburgh loss Saturday. 
continued from page 16 

That’s why a win in the Big as senior walk-on Tom East tournament puts the 
Hansbrough’s 30 points, Kopko drove the lane and Irish in a good position to be a 
despite only hitting one field scored in the final minute. No. 2 seed in the NCAA tour-
goal within the arc. As time expired, only one nament. And that’s why, dare 
“I don’t think [Villanova] phrase could be heard, yelled I say, if the Irish can pull out 
really focused on shooters like by students, fans and Brian three straight victories in New 
some of the other teams do,” Kelly alike — “We are ND. We York next week, they have a 
Abromaitis said. “Earlier in the are ND.” shot at a No. 1 seed. Who 
year I would have paid a good In the last game of the sea-could possibly have seen that 
amount of money to get a cou­son, the loudest game of the coming? 
ple of those looks.” season, the loudest cheer The energy in the Purcell 
Notre Dame (24-5, 13-4 Big explains why this Notre Dame Pavilion was unlike any this 
East) put the Wildcats (21-9, 9­team is the best we’ve seen in school has seen away from 
7) on their heels from the years. the football field in years. 
opening minutes, riding four 3s 

It was a night of 3-pointers From the tip-off, every person 
— in order, one from senior and individual performances. inside knew who was going to 
guard Carleton Scott, Fourth-year forward Tim win the game. The students 
Abromaitis, Hansbrough and Abromaitis tied the Joyce knew. Mike Brey knew. 
another from Abromaitis — Center record for individual Hansbrough knew. Deep 
inside the first four minutes to 3s in a game. He and down, even Villanova knew. 
take a 14-4 lead. Hansbrough each scored 30 Let me repeat: A Notre Dame 
“We came out here and hit a for only the second time in basketball team not only beat, 
couple 3s in the first few min-ings, with a chance at first you to the fans,” Nash said. school history. Hansbrough but dominated and knew it 
utes,” said senior forward place still standing. Resulting “It’s been a long four years, but and senior forward Tyrone was going to dominate a top-
Tyrone Nash, who finished from that, Notre Dame will I couldn’t have done anything Nash each recorded double-20 Big East team, after just a 
with 11 points and 11 receive a double-bye in the Big without these 12 guys behind doubles. But it was the team day of rest when four of the 
rebounds. “We really came out East tournament, beginning me and the coaching staff.” performance that once again Irish starters played 29 or 
and won the first four minutes the tournament in the quarter-As for Kopko, the loudest shows the potential of this more minutes against Seton 
of the first half. I think that’s finals. The Irish also ended cheers of the night did not Irish squad. Hall. As a result, the Irish go 
really when we won the game their home schedule without a come during his speech, but All but six of Notre Dame’s undefeated at home for the 
right there.” blemish, 19-0. rather when he entered the 29 made shots came off third time in five years. Now 
Scott ended the game with “One more thing — at the game with one minute left, and assists. Four players scored in that’s a home-court advan­
two from behind the arc, sen-very start of the season, we managed to score on a drive double-digits. Every single tage. 
ior guard Scott Martin and talked about no matter who for Notre Dame’s final points. player on the Irish bench got When Hansbrough took the 
freshman guard Eric Atkins came in, we wanted to end the As he picked himself up off the playing time. microphone to address the 
added one apiece, and Notre season undefeated at home,” court and the ball fell through I’ve said it many times crowd after the game, he said 
Dame ended the night with a Hansbrough said as he the net, the crowd cheered throughout the season — this that from the season’s outset, 
program-record 20 3s, shoot-addressed the crowd after the louder than it did for even Notre Dame team is special one of the team’s goals was to 
ing 62.5 percent from deep. game. Hansbrough’s record-breaking because there isn’t just one be perfect at the Purcell 
“I think that’s just part of our “For us to come out and do 3. star. True, Hansbrough has a Pavilion. 
mental preparation, and peo-that, that’s what makes it so “First off, I have to thank chance to be the Big East “We wanted to go undefeat­
ple getting in the gym and emotional for me.” these guys for getting me in at Player of the Year, and Notre ed at home. We,” he said, with 
working on their shots by The win also tied Nash and the end there,” Kopko said. “I Dame thrives off of his energy an emphasis on “we” as he 
themselves, and just seizing walk-on senior Tom Kopko have to thank these 12 guys, and ability. But, as Villanova pointed around the building. 
opportunity when it’s there,” with last year’s senior class as the coaching staff for giving me learned the hard way tonight, We are ND, and this time, 
Hansbrough said of the sky-the winningest class in school this opportunity, and coach if you leave Abromaitis open, we’re for real. 
high conversion rate. “We just history. Brey, thanks a lot.” he will destroy you — and not 
shot incredible tonight.” Hansbrough, Nash and Notre Dame ends its regular just with 3s. The views expressed in this 
The record-setting perform-Kopko — the three seniors season with a match-up This team is versatile, and column are those of the 
ance carried Notre Dame to a with no eligibility remaining — against No. 16 Connecticut that’s why they clinched a top-author and not necessarily 
few unique marks. The win each took a turn at the mic Saturday at 2 p.m. two finish in the Big East, those of The Observer. 
assured the Irish will finish no after the game amidst loud clearly the best conference in Contact Eric Prister at 
lower than second in the final applause. Contact Douglas Farmer at the country. That’s why the eprister@nd.edu 
Big East regular season stand-“All I want to say is thank dfarmer1@nd.edu 



page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, March 1, 2011 
NFL 

Players and owners try to avoid lockout 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — This is the week hardly anyone expected to actually arrive: deadline time for the NFL and its play­ers’ union. 
The collective bargaining agreement expires Thursday night, and the owners could lock out the players. Even before that, though, the Players Association is likely to decertify to prevent a lock­out and take its chances in court. 
Both sides will resume meeting with a federal medi­ator Tuesday and probably Wednesday in Washington; seven recent sessions brought little progress. The 32 team owners have meet­ings Wednesday and Thursday in nearby Chantilly, Va., where they will be briefed on the status of nego­tiations before deciding on the next step. 
Just ahead stands the unthinkable: a labor shut­down in America’s most pros­perous and popular sport. 
“Everything is hypothetical right now,” new 49ers coach Jim Harbaugh said Monday. “I’m just optimistic we can get something done.” 
If the league locks out the players, everything stops except the NFL draft on April 28-30 — and any interviews or workouts teams conduct with college players leading up to the draft. After that, teams can ’t contact their picks, nor can they sign undrafted rookies. 
Veterans also will be in limbo, with no offseason workouts (OTAs) or mini ­camps held. The longer the impasse lasts, the more in jeopardy training camps, the preseason and — gasp! — the regular season become. 
Dolphins quarterback Chad Henne already has plans for practicing with teammates. 
“We picked out a spot to work out at, and we’re trying to get guys back in town,” Henne said. “Normally our 
offseason program starts March 28, so we’re going to try to have everybody back March 28 ... and hopefully a lot of guys will come back and we can work out and we can build some bonding and camaraderie.” 
The financial losses are almost incalculable, but would grow by tens of mil­lions of dollars the longer the work stoppage lasts. The NFL is a $9 billion industry, but not when it comes to a halt. 
Should the union decertify, something it did in 1989, 
only to reform, individual players would seek a court injunction preventing a lock­out. Players on every team approved decertification in votes during the season. 
But going through the courts can be a long, winding journey. 
The league filed an unfair labor practice charge against the union with the National Labor Relations Board in mid -February, saying the NFLPA “consistently has failed to confer in good faith” during negotiations for a new contract. The NFL claimed the union’s plans to decertify 
overrode its interest in reaching a new CBA, a charge union spokesman George Atallah said had “absolutely no merit.” 
If the union decertifies, which it must do before the CBA expires at 11:59 p.m. Thursday night, Commissioner Roger Goodell and the NFL in essence would have nobody to negoti­ate with. Then again, the players wouldn’t have execu­tive director DeMaurice Smith representing them anymore. 
Already, some teams have withheld 2011 playbooks from veterans, particularly teams with new coaches, offensive or defensive coordi­nators. Indeed, several teams are putting together two sets of playbooks, one for use if there is an agreement and 
offseason workouts take place, and one in the event there are no OTAs or mini-camps. 
“There have never been any restrictions on when you could or couldn’t hand out playbooks or do the normal offseason stuff,” Cardinals coach Ken Whisenhunt said. 
“Obviously, we have differ­ent schedules planned, ” Broncos coach John Fox added, “but all 32 teams are dealing with this.” 
Judge David Doty in Minneapolis is dealing with an NFLPA motion that $4 bil­lion in TV rights fees from the NFL’s network partners should be placed in escrow rather than spread among the teams in 2011 — even if no games are played. The league’s agreements with the networks calls for payments to be made whether games take place next season or not, and the NFL says lockout protection is a normal part of such contracts. 
Doty’s decision likely won’t come before Thursday night’s CBA deadline. 



Tuesday, March 1, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
MEN’S TRACK & FIELD 
Suriano carries prep success into college 


By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
Irish junior Zac Suriano is no stranger to the level of success he is currently having on the track. 
Suriano, who attended Shenendehowa High School in Clifton Park, N.Y., was a 10­time letter-winner between cross-country, track and field and soccer during his high school years. As a junior in high school he was on the national champion 4x400 ­meter relay team. He was responsible for three records during his time at Shenendehowa. He set high school records in the 800­meter, the indoor sprint med­ley relay and the outdoor sprint medley relay. He was also a seven-time conference and regional winner. 
The junior said he started participating in track and field as a kid as a way to stay in shape for other sports, but he soon found out he had quite a knack for competitive running 
“I initially started running track in elementary school with my town’s club team because of some encourage­ment from my parents to give it a try,” Suriano said. “For a few years track was a way to stay in shape for soccer and basketball until freshmen year of high school when I started to realize it was the other way around and what I looked forward to was track season in the spring, By jun­ior year, I had started running all three seasons with cross country and track and am still doing so now five years later.” 
As a senior in high school he had his heart set on run­ning for Duke, but family advice and a trip to South Bend swayed his decision. 
“Entering my senior year I was set on going to Duke to continue my education, it wasn’t until my grandmother said something about how great of a school Notre Dame was that I looked into it,” Suriano said. “I arranged a visit with the team and after spending just two days on campus I knew it was where I wanted to be. Despite being here for a shutout loss to USC before fall break the campus had a great feel to it where I could see myself enjoying my four years while getting a top­notch education.” 
Suriano was a member of the honors society in high school and maintains his com­mitment to academics here at Notre Dame. 
“I struggled my freshmen year finding the balance between academics and ath­letics and paid the price on both ends. The key is being efficient with what time you have,” Suriano said. “You can’t stay up late half-work­ing, half-watching TV and still expect to perform well at practice and in the classroom. And despite my will to pro­crastinate, planning a week or so ahead has become the norm to keep things from becoming too hectic when traveling to meets on week­ends.” 
Suriano and the rest of the Irish track and field team will be in action at home this weekend in the Alex Wilson Invitational. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 


Demons 
continued from page 16 
the second half, Mallory attacked a DePaul guard and stole the ball, feeding it from the ground to junior Natalie Novosel, who gave it to Devereaux Peters for a layup. 
The play came after a furi­
ous half and gave Notre Dame its first lead in four minutes —but was once again, it wasn’t enough. 
DePaul senior Felicia Chester made a layup with four seconds left and No. 7 Notre Dame (24-6, 13-3 Big East) fell 70-69 in the final seconds to No. 11 DePaul (25­5, 13-3) Monday night at the McGrath Phillips Arena in Chicago. 
Down 32-26 after halftime, Notre Dame scored the first seven points of the second half and 19 of the first 26 to open up a 58-49 lead over DePaul. 
“We knew in the first half we weren’t really playing our game,” Mallory said. 
But the Blue Demons fought their way back with a 12-0 run that spanned more than three minutes to take a 61-58 lead. 
The Irish tied it at 61 with four minutes to play and the two teams sparred for the remaining time. 
“I thought we made a valiant effort at the end of the game,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
Chester led all players with 20 points on her own senior day, and celebrated with fans who rushed the court after the victory. DePaul junior Keisha Hampton came in right behind her with 17 points. 
“I thought Hampton and Chester were too much for us defensively,” McGraw said. 
Diggins led the Irish with 18 points, while Novosel had 17, Peters 15 and Mallory 10. Senior forward Becca Bruszewski had just six points after getting into foul trouble early, and she fouled out with 5:28 remaining in the game. 
The Irish now have six days to think about the loss before they begin play in the Big East tournament Sunday in Hartford, Conn., as a No. 3­seed. 
“The season’s over, it ’s done,” Mallory said. “We’ve got to move on.” 
DePaul will be the No. 2­seed in the tournament, meaning the two teams could play each other again the semi-final round on Monday. 
“We’ll be ready,” McGraw said. “I can guarantee that.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, March 1, 2011 

Observer .le photo Senior midfelder Zach Brenneman runs upfeld with the ball during a gamelastseasonagainstProvidence. 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 16 
season, Brenneman has record­ed four goals and two assists, leading the Irish in points. When asked about his success thus far, he shied away from the attention and quickly credited the Irish defense for the team’s 2-0 record. 
“What we’re doing as a team is we’re playing great team defense. Our defense really stepped it up last game when our offense was­n’t doing that great,” Brenneman said. 
Irish coach Kevin Corrigan admitted he and Brenneman have had a few encounters regarding play-calling, but he said these discussions are fueled by Brenneman’s desire to make his team better. 
“I’ll be honest with you, Zach and I have at times butted heads because he’s a really strong-willed guy. He has strong feelings about the way he’s going to play, and I have strong feelings about what I want our team to be like,” Corrigan said. “I don’t mind working through this with a kid when he wants to make the team great. I probably butt heads with him more than anyone on the team, but that’s alright; that’s not bad at all.” 
Brenneman said Corrigan makes himself approachable and easy to work with whenever a player has questions. 
“Coach and I have a dynamic where he has a strong personali­ty, and his ideas are always some­thing that I take into considera­tion. He will talk to the players if they say, ‘This play doesn’t work,’ or ‘We can score a lot of goals on this play,’” Brenneman said. “If they ask him anything, he’ll talk. He’s a great guy, especially when it comes to anything like that.” 
Brenneman said one lesson in particular stood out from the many teaching moments he has had with Corrigan. 
“When he talks about how he’d rather you play hard and make mistakes than not play hard and not make mistakes, kids aren’t afraid to make mistakes,” Brenneman said. “And kids who do make mistakes are rewarded because they’re making plays while going hard and not being afraid to make mistakes.” 
Brenneman said he has taken that philosophy to heart, and he works hard on the field to set the standard for his teammates. 
“I’m not a vocal leader. I tend to lead by example in that I try as hard as I can, and I give it 110 percent in practice,” Brenneman said. “I bring that attitude to those younger than me and try to be that person who’s always try­ing.” 
Corrigan said Brenneman’s hard work and drive to improve have made him the athlete and the leader that he is today. 
“Zach’s best leadership is in his example of how much he cares and how much he wants to be good,” Corrigan said. “He’s more of a guy who is a motor within a team because guys see how hard he works and how hard he has worked to get where he is, and they realize that there’s no short­cut and no easy way to get there.” 
That passion and work ethic, Corrigan said, is what makes Brenneman’s teammates follow the co-captain. 
“The quality that Zach exudes is an enthusiasm for playing, an enthusiasm for everything,” Corrigan said. “He’s a passionate kid, and that’s why the players 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 

Conway 
continued from page 16 
enough to study after our rounds,” Conway said. 
The small size of the golf team — usually just six to eight golfers — makes competing for Top Team GPA honors more difficult. 
“There is no room for anyone to have a bad GPA. If so much as one person does badly, the team really suffers and there is no hope of winning the [award],” Holt said. “There is pressure to do well and not let your teammates down.” 
But the close-knit atmos­phere — and peer pressure — that comes from being a mem­ber of such a small team is 
also one of the squad’s great­est assets. 
“The upperclassmen have had a positive influence on me and have set a good example because when I feel like relax­ing or sleeping, I see them working and studying hard, and so I feel obligated to do the same,” Zhang said. 
The team begins every semester with a meeting to set athletic and academic goals, and every semester the group resolves to win Top Team GPA honors. But members of the squad believe that this goal would be unattainable if it weren’t for the drive and strong work ethic of each indi­vidual Irish golfer. 
“Having the highest GPA is something we are very proud of, and while it was a goal of ours at the beginning of the season, it’s more a product of our individual goals and moti­vation to be successful,” Conway said. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 

Tuesday, March 1, 2011 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE 





JEFF KNUREK

THE MATING RITUAL SCOTT MITCHELL and MATT MOMONT 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports

Tuesday, March 1, 2011 page 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Senior moments 


Hansbrough, Abromaitis double-bye in Big East 
Notre Dame earns 

score 30 points in rout tournament with win 
at home on Senior Night 
As the clock wound down on 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Notre Dame’s 21-point victory 
Sports Editor 

over Villanova Monday night to seal a perfect record at the In his last home game wear-
Purcell Pavilion and clinch a ing a Notre Dame uniform, sen­
double-bye in ior guard Ben Hansbrough went 
the Big East out with a bang, and then 
tournament, another one, and another one, 
the loudest and another one, until he had 
cheer of the tallied 30 points on 7-of-10 
night rang shooting from behind the arc. 
through the Hansbrough’s seven 3s didn’t 
arena. even lead the No. 8 Irish during 
It wasn’t the their 93-72 victory over No. 19 
cheer that 
Eric Prister

rose up when went to fourth-year forward 
Villanova Monday. That honor 

the Irish Tim Abromaitis as he tied a 
broke Notre A ssociate Joyce Center record with nine 
Dame’s single-Sports Editor 3s on only 13 attempts. 
game 3-point “I was telling Abro, ‘Did you 
record. It and me get 16 3s combined?’” 
wasn’t the cheer as Ben Hansbrough said of the record-
Hansbrough left the court for the shooting performance. “That’s a 
last time in his Notre Dame decent enough shooting night.” 
career. It wasn’t even the cheer the echoed through the building

Abromaitis matched JULIE HERDER/The Observer 
Senior forward Tim Abromaitis drives past a Villanova defender early in the second half of see RECORD/page 11 Monday’s game. Abromaitis tallied 30 points in Notre Dame’s 93-72 victory over the Wildcats. see IRISH/page 11 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Squad impresses in the classroom and on the links 
plied the highest team GPA for teams, and has never finished priority for the Irish, balancing from sunrise to sunset on the
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
the fall semester, as it was our a semester lower than fourth the demands of challenging 36-hole days, and we have to 
Sports Writer 
main academic goal for this in the standings. Members of coursework with the golf make sure we go to bed early 
year,” freshman Nicole Zhang the team have been named Big course does not always come and get a lot of practice in,” 

The women’s golf team said. “All of us on the team East Academic All-Stars 19 easy. Zhang said. “We try to do as enjoyed success on the course work really hard on both aca-times during Holt’s tenure. The golf team competes in much homework as we can this past fall, compiling a demics and golf, and it has “The team performs very both the fall and spring semes-before we leave for tourna­record of 53-11-0 and ending paid off.” consistently in the classroom, ters, so there is no off season ments, but we usually hit the the season with a No. 17 rank-The golf team has turned and I think it is just the culture when the golfers can focus books when we are on the ing. But the squad also academic excellence into a that has been created,” Holt more energy on their classes. plane and in the car.” impressed in the classroom, habit, winning the Top Team said. “I am most proud of the Tournaments are often held as Senior Katie Conway agreed finishing the fall semester with GPA award twice since Susan accountability our players have far away as Florida and with Zhang’s assessment. a grade-point average (GPA) of Holt became was named head for themselves and to each Hawaii. “Our biggest challenge is 3.534, the highest of any Notre coach in 2006. The squad has other to succeed in the class-“On the road, it is pretty hard probably staying awake long Dame varsity team. finished with the second high-room.” to find time to study or do 
“It feels great to have com-est GPA of all Irish varsity While schoolwork is clearly a homework because we golf see CONWAY/page 14 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
ND falls to Blue Demons 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
CHICAGO — With just over a minute to play in the first half of Notre Dame’s final regular-season game, senior guard Brittany Mallory sprinted the length of the court after a fast-breaking DePaul guard, diving to knock the ball from her hands and out of bounds before she could make a shot. 
The play came after one of Notre Dame’s 15 first-half turnovers and was followed seconds later by a Blue Demons lay-up — just anoth­er too little, too late moment for the Irish. 
With 30 seconds to play in 
see DEMONS/page 13 

MEN’S LACROSSE 
Senior Brenneman leads team by example 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
Growing up in competition with his younger brother in his East Hampton, N.Y. backyard, all signs pointed to a successful athletic career for senior mid­fielder and co-captain Zach Brenneman. 
Zach and his brother, fresh­man midfielder Tyler Brenneman, often played with the neighborhood kids, engag­ing in any activities that involved competition. 
“We had a big neighborhood community, and obviously I would always pick on Ty,” Zach said. “We used to always play manhunt, and we enjoyed play­ing little stupid games. They were always competitive.” 
Brenneman was in the sev­enth grade when his father saw him with a lacrosse stick for the first time. His father, who played baseball at Geneva College, was initially thoroughly disappointed with his son’s choice of sport. 
“It’s a funny story actually,” Brenneman said. “My dad came home, and I had a lacrosse stick in my hand. My dad was a base­ball fanatic. He was kind of upset, but then he saw how much fun I was having, and after that he didn’t really care.” 
In the first two games of the 
see LACROSSE/page 14 







