the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Applicants face toughest competition 
Office of Undergraduate Admissions sees increase in early and regular applications 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
High school students applying to become the newest members of the Notre Dame Class of 2015 faced the stiffest admissions com­petition ever, according to Don Bishop,associatevicepresidentfor UndergraduateAdmissions. 
“This will be the most selective yearintheUniversity’shistory,”he said. “It is likely we will admit no morethan25percentofourhighly talentedapplicantpool.” 
Bishop said the early applicant pool was up 24 percent from last year,with5,294earlyactionappli­cations received. He said roughly 1,950studentswereadmitted,ata 37 percent acceptance rate, down fromlastyear’s42percentaccept­ancerate. 
Bishop said the early action acceptance rate is higher than the expectedrateofadmissionbecause ofthehighqualityofstudentswho 

see EARLY/page 5 LAUREN KALINOSKI I Observer Graphic 



OIT replaces campus printers over break 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
As the spring semester kicks off this week, students who use campus printers may notice some new improvements and upgrades. 
During winter break, the Office of Information Technologies worked with Xerox to remove all 35 Xerox Phaser 3600 printer models from residence halls, DeBartolo Hall, Jordan Hall of Science and several other buildings, Brian Burchett, manager for Technology Enhanced Learning Spaces,said. 
“Our main focus was on resi­dencehallprintersbecausethey were being taxed by the volume of printing being completed, so we replaced them with Xerox Phaser 4510 models,” Burchett said. “These printers have a larger monthly duty cycle, meaning they have the capacity toprintmorepagespermonth.” 
More specifically, the 4510 model can handle 25,000 pages per month, whereas the 3600 model had a duty cycle of 8,000 pages per month and were being used to print 12,000 to 15,000pagespermonthinmost of the residence halls on cam-pus,Burchettsaid. 

“Students were obviously run­ning the printers harder than they were intended to run,” Burchett said. “In addition to having a larger duty cycle, the new printersprintPDFfiles bet­terthanthe3600.” 
Burchett noted many students previously experienced difficul­ties in printing PDF files on the residence hall and other 3600 model printers, but he is confi­dent the number of problems will decrease because the 4510 model handles PDF files better thanthe3600model. 
In order to print to the new printers, students must update the print queues on their com­puters, and peel-off sheets with basic instructions for complet­ing this update are attached to posters that arelocated atevery printer release station in cam­pus residence halls, Burchett said. 
“We changed the print queues on the print servers, so now there is a print queue that we think students should use when printing PDFs, which should 
see PRINTERS/page 3 


County refuses approval 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 

A Dec. 21 public hearing of the St. Joseph County Area Plan Commission (APC) did not approve final site plans of near­by development Legacy Square, leaving some students wonder­ing if they will have off-campus housing plans for the 2011-12 schoolyear. 
Legacy Square is a develop­ment to be located at the corner of Notre Dame Avenue and Sorin Street. The development has been in the planningphases since 2007, where the plot of land was rezoned from Single Family (SF2) zoning to Planned Unit Development (PUD) for more freedom and creativity of development not falling under theSF2zoning. 
see LEGACY/page 5 



Fans pleased with Bowl win 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 

Students celebrated Notre 
Dame’s 33-17 victory over 
MiamiintheSunBowl. 

“The game was awesome,” seniorFredJungsaid.“Ihada really great time both at the gameandaroundthecityofEl Paso.” 
Most students agreed the bestpartofthetripwasseeing the overflowing support for thefootballteam. 
“Although my friends and I did not go to the planned Notre Dame festivities, it was incredible to see the amount ofNotreDamesupportersjust at the tailgating scene,” Jung said. 
For senior Silvana Martinez 
and sophomore Walter Myers, 
bothofwhomareElPasoresi­
dents, the Sun Bowl was a 
unique opportunity for them 
to experience a major Notre 
Dame event in their home­
town. 

“The whole weekend was 
great,” Martinez said. “There 
wasahugeturnoutofnotonly 
NotreDamestudents,butalso 
see SUN BOWL/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER COR discusses new ordinance page 3  Student film festival page 12  Men’s Basketball preps for Cincinnati page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesday, January 19, 2011 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 

NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Allan Joseph John Cameron Chris Allen Nicole Toczauer Sam Gans 
Graphics Scene 
Lauren Kalinoski Jordan Gamble 
Photo Viewpoint 
Suzana Pratt Megan Kozak 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE BEST PART OF W NTER BREAK? 









Becca Page Emily O’Malley 
junior senior Welsh Family Pangborn 
“Christmas” “The beach” 
Lauren McCallick 
senior Pasquerilla West 
“I took a trip to England and Ireland with my family and dropped my sister off for study abroad.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
Margaret Harrison 
freshman Welsh Family 
“Not having classes” 

Stephen Quintana 
freshman Dillon 
“Visiting my buddy in Chapel Hill” 
Tanya Watts 
sophomore Pangborn 
“I went to Kansas for New Years.” 


COLEMAN COLLINS/The Observer A man dressed in native attire roams the grounds at the Sun Bowl on Dec. 31 in El Paso, TX. Several individuals represented their tribes and greeted fans by dressing in traditional costume. 
OFFBEAT 

Owl attacks chihuahua on suburban streets 
CRYSTAL LAKE, Ill. — An owl attack has left a 4­pound Chihuahua with a healthy fear of the dark. 
The attack happened when Chico the Chihuahua was out for a walk with his owner George Kalomiris in the Chicago suburb of Crystal Lake last week. Kalomiris says they were walking down the street when a great horned owl swooped down and tried to fly away with the 3-year-old dog. 
Kalomiris says he kept a firm grip on Chico’s leash as the bird dragged the dog across the sidewalk, and he managed to scare the owl away. 
Chico was treated for a puncture wound caused by the owl’s talons, and his owner says he’s still traumatized. Kalomiris says the dog now refuses to go outside at night. 
Ancient Russian prison buys tanning beds 
MOSCOW — A cen­turies-old Russian prison notorious for its primitive conditions will soon offer inmates a new perk — tanning beds. 
The ITAR-Tass news agency on Sunday cited federal prisons service Viktor Dezhurov as saying the tanning beds at Moscow’s Butyrskaya prison will be ready for observances of its’ 240­year anniversary this year. 
Dezhurov was quoted as saying the tanning beds are meant to compensate for inadequate sunlight in the cells. But inmates will have to pay and at 10 rubles (33 cents) a minute, that’s a sizable fee in a country where the average monthly salary is well under $1,000. 
The prison’s dismal con­ditions attracted wide attention in 2009 after the death of Sergei Magnitsky, a young lawyer who died of pancreas disease there after inadequate medical care. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday 


IN BRIEF 

The Department of Anthropology will present “From Insight to Motivation: Metalinguistic Labor and Addiction Therapeutics” today at 10:30 a.m. in room 201 O’Shaughnessy Hall. 
The Geddes Hall Coffeehouse will host the 2011 Wellness Series: “Nutrition” today at noon. Jocie Antonelli, R.D., Manager of Nutrition and Safety will give talks on nutrition for all participants who register for this free event online. 
Tonight at 7 p.m., Men’s bas­ketball will face Cincinnati in the Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center. Tickets cost between $15 and $40. 
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart welcomes Seraphic Fire in the Concert of Sacred Music at 8 p.m. tonight. This event is free and open to the public. 
The 22nd Annual Notre Dame Student Film Festival will take place Thursday, Friday and Saturday in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Screenings are at 6:30 
p.m. and 9:30 p.m. Tickets can be purchased at the box office and online. 
The Early Childhood Development Center at Saint Mary’s College will be holding open houses on Jan. 23 and Feb. 20. Held from 1:30 to 3 
p.m. in Havican Hall, Parents and guardians can meet teach­ers and visit classrooms before registration. For more informa­tion please call 284-4693 or visit http://www.nd.edu/~ecdc­nd/ 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Saturday Sunday 

Wednesday, January 19, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


Talkcentersonsnowremoval 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Following the recent pas­sage of a new snow ordi­nance in South Bend, mem­bers of the Council of Representatives (COR) dis­cussed the ramifications for off-campus students at Tuesday’s meeting. 
The new ordinance includes a penalty for resi­dents who fail to shovel the sidewalk within 24 hours of the end of a snowfall. According to WNDU, the fine existed in the previous ordi­nance, but the city could only impose it after having paid someone else to remove it. 
“We’re concerned about students over break,” stu­dent body president Catherine Soler said. 
The city is establishing a snow removal program, which it hopes to staff with volunteers to clear the side­walks at residencies occu­pied by the handicapped or elderly. 
Off-campus president Ryan Hawley said he thinks off-campus seniors will respond negatively to the new ordi­nance. 
“Students don’t have the money, time or energy to shovel our sidewalks,” he said. 
But student body vice pres­ident Andrew Bell said it is important for students to fulfill the responsibilities that come with living in South Bend. 
“When you choose to move off campus and into the com­munity of South Bend, you’re choosing to follow these rules,” he said. “We just need to remember we chose to be part of this. The real issue is about students not being around a lot of the time.” 
Chief of staff Nick Ruof said the administration would be meeting with city representatives to discuss Notre Dame students’ role in the removal program and how the city will handle fines over breaks. 
“They’re looking for Notre Dame students to shovel eld­erly people’s sidewalks,” he said. “We’ll be meeting with the city attorneys in a few weeks.” 

Soler said it could serve as an opportunity for students to get service hours for Resident Life penalties. 
Bell reminded members that a cooperative effort between students and the city, especially through the volunteer removal program, could help alleviate any issues that may arise with student residences. 
“Just like everything else in a community, it’s give and take,” he said. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


SMC student wins design competition 

By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 

Saint Mary’s junior Elizabeth Carian placed first in a regional costume design competition on Jan.8. 
According to Carian, 18 stu­dentsandtwofacultymembersof the Theatre Department at Saint Mary’s College, traveled to Michigan State University to take part in the American College Theatre Festival, a six-day event designed to educate students throughparticipativelearning. 
The festival was held from Jan. 4toJan.9. 
“[The festival is] a huge con­glomerationoftheatrepeoplewho are enjoying each other’s compa­ny, learning from each other immenselyandseeingwhatwe’ve done over the year,” Carian said. “It’s kind of like a celebration of it.” 
At the festival, Carian entered a competition called the Regional PaperProject,whereundergradu­ate and graduate students designedcostumesonpaper. 
“If [the contestants] had an unlimited budget, what would they design? What would they showtothedirector?Basicallyit’s gruntportfoliowork,”Cariansaid. 
Each contestant took his or her design and placed it on a foam panelforjudging. 
Cariansaidtwo judges examine each display without the contest­ants. Then, she said contestants are assigned times when the judges will return to each display. Eachcontestanthasoneminuteto explain his or her design to the judges. The judges will then ask questions and relay feedback for fourminutes. 
“Theytellyouwhattheythink,” 

Printers 
continued from page 1 

solve some of the problems we saw previously,” Burchett said. “There’s also a print queue for allotherprinting.” 
Burchett said students who have trouble installing the new print updates should first rerun the installer and call the OIT Help Desk at 631-8111 if they experiencefurtherdifficulties. 
Another common printing problemthatBurchetthopesthe new printers will resolve is the incidence of paper jams. He explained many paper jam issues were related to the duplexing hardware on the 3600 model that allows docu­ments to be printed double-sided by flipping the sheet of paperinsidetheprinter. 
“Our testing of the 4510 model shows that paper jams willprobablybe reduced signifi­cantly because it prints double-sided much better than the 3600,” Burchett said. “But we can’t test it as well as 10,000 studentscan.” 
Burchett also said fall humidi­ty could have caused paper to absorb moisture, which could have contributed to jammed printers during the fall semes-Carian said. “It’s completely invaluable. It’s amazing because theseareprofessionalsinthefield that are telling you what they think about your work. These are directors and costume designers, soyougetbothsidesofthestory.” 
After the preliminary round of the competition, Carian said she hadtowaitfortheresults.Twenty finalists were chosen, and each competitor presented during another round with two new judgesandonereturningjudge. 
According to Carian, the final round was similar to the prelimi­nary round; each contestant had one minute to explain his or her work. However, in the final round judges had 14 minutes of responsetime. 
Carian also saidthe judges took copiousnotesinthefinalround. 
The winners of the competition were announced at the award ceremonyonJan.8. 
Carian said she felt “disbelief” when she heard she had placed firstattheceremony. 
“We’ve been going to this festi­val for 44 years and we’ve never had anybody win anything,” Cariansaid. 
Carian was the recipient of the award, and received a $100 check, a $25 gift card to Barnes andNobleandamembershipinto a technical organization where she will be able to attend other theatrecompetitionsfreeofcost. 
“The competitions give you prestige so that when you go into a graduate program or if you go into a job interview you can have it on your resume and say, ‘look what I did’ and it means some­thing,” Carian said. “It really does.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

ter. However, he is confident the number of problems with resi­dence hall printers will decrease dramatically this semester. 
“It’s early to tell how it’s working out, but in a couple weeks we should be able to compare the number of prob­lems during the first few weeks of this semester with the num­ber from last semester,” Burchettsaid. 
Burchett said OIT saw a 50 percent increase in student printing last semester, so more studentsareexpectedtorunout of print quota than they did last year. Students who run out of print quota will be able to pur­chase additional print quota for five cents per sheet this semes­ter, as opposed to the usual 10 centspersheet. 
Student government also requested that a color printer be added to LaFortune Student Center and that a black and white printer be installed in O’Shaughnessy Hall, and Burchett said these printers should be installed toward the endofFebruary. 
Additional information about the printer upgrades can be foundatoit.nd.edu/print. 

Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 19, 2011 
Sun Bowl 
continued from page 1 
locals who embraced our school andbecamesupporters. 
“Oneofthebestpartsaboutthe game was the fact that all of the cheers and traditions associated with the student section at Notre Dame Stadium were brought to Sun Bowl Stadium. It was awe­some to see students doing push­upsafterNotreDamescores.” 
Myers agreed with his fellow El Pasoan. 
“I have never seen this much hypesurroundingtheSunBowl.It wasamazing,”hesaid. 
AsamemberoftheNotreDame Club of El Paso, Myers helped in thepreparationforthegameitself andtheactivitiessurroundingit. 
“We organized a canned food drive for a local homeless shelter, and anyone who brought a can was given ‘The Shirt,’” he said. “We also organized the battle of thebandseventinsidetheElPaso Convention Center and the pep rally, which was unfortunately cancelledduetoinclementweath­er.” 
The irony of the title of “Sun Bowl” was evident, as the kickoff temperature was 34 degrees and snow was on the ground. For many students, the weather was thesoleletdownoftheweekend. 

“Iwasexpectingwarmweather, sothesweatshirtandjeansIwore on game day were definitely not enough,”Jungsaid. 
“It felt like South Bend,” Martinez said. “Ido not think any of us were expecting as much snowaswegot.” 
Despite the weather, the Irish victory and time spent with friendsovertheNewYear’sweek­end made the Sun Bowl experi­enceonetoremember. 
“I think the best part of my weekend was seeing all of my school friends and having them meet my home friends,” Martinez said. “When I found out Notre DamewouldbeplayingintheSun Bowl, I was ecstatic because I knewmylastNotreDamefootball gameasastudentwouldbeinmy hometown.Itwasagreatlasthur­rah.” 
“El Paso dida great job of keep­ing the environment both hos­pitableandsafe,”Myerssaid.“I’m really proud of both my city and school.” 
Contact Adam Llorens at 


allorens@nd.edu 



COLEMAN COLLINS/The Observer 
Fans gather at Sun Bowl Stadium at the University of Texas-El Paso for the New Year’s Eve game between the Notre Dame Fighting Irish and the University of Miami Hurricanes. Notre Dame won the bowl game 33-17. 
Professor to show at Sundance Film Festival 
Special to The Observer 
Danielle Beverly, a visiting assistant professor of film-making at the University of Notre Dame, is headed to the Sundance Film Festival next week for the world premiere of the documentary “Rebirth.” 
Beverly, who began teaching in the University’s Department of Film, Television, and Theatre (FTT) this fall, spent the last nine years working as the movie’s field producer. 
Directed by Jim Whitaker, “Rebirth” chronicles the lives of five New Yorkers in the years after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, interspersed with footage from 14 time-lapse cameras trained on the site where the World Trade Center once stood. 
The cameras—which have been filming around the clock since 2002—were Whitaker’s idea, Beverly says. “He also conceptualized the idea of a human time lapse, which is paralleling the rebuild of ground zero by following the lives of several people who experienced loss as a result of that attack,” she says. 
Beverly says she was drawn to the project by Whitaker’s vision and the opportunity to track the healing of a small group of people for nearly a decade. “I knew it would be a profound journey to witness and for the people who were experiencing it on camera,” she says. 

One of Beverly’s key roles as field producer was finding and building trust with the people who became the subjects of the film. These include a stu­dent who lost his mother, a widow of a first responder, a survivor from one of the floors above the impact zone, a man who oversees ground zero construction, and a firefighter who lost his closest friends. 
“If you make documentary film, you don’t have a film without the people,” she says. “It takes their bravery to make a film.” 
As director, Whitaker con­ducted extensive interviews with the subjects each year on the anniversary of the attacks. In between his taped inter­views, Beverly served as point person for each subject, tracking the unfolding events of their lives and making sure camera crews captured the footage needed to illustrate key moments through each year. 
“They were like family members, in a way, for eight years,” she says. “We came to weddings, we came to family events, we were inside peo­ples’ homes at some of the most intimate moments of their story, and that is to their credit. They are remarkable people.” 

Wednesday, January 19, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Student starts reading program using dolls 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Whilethereareseveralwaysto learn about history, Saint Mary’s junior Eilis Wasserman said she useshistoricalfictiontosharethe culture of American history with ayoungergeneration. 
Wasserman said sheis goingto start an American Girl Reading Program for elementary aged girlsingradesthreethroughfive. 
“I am a huge fan of the American Girl Doll tradition that started25yearsago,”shesaid.“I have grown up playing with the dolls and reading the books that goeswitheachone.” 

The program will meet once a month and explore the life and culture surrounding a different American Girl doll. Wasserman said the meeting would not look at the doll’s specific story as much as it would focus on the erashewaslivingin. 
“We will discuss what it was like for that American Girl, by focusing not only on her story, but more so on the lifestyle and culture of that time period,” she said. 
Wasserman said she hopes the program willhelpbring an inter­est to American history and makes these girls more aware of theirownculture. 
“[The goal is] to inspire young girls to become interested in their American history and also what makes them unique as American Girls of today,” she said. “I hope that many girls will attend and thoroughly enjoy the activities will be doing. If this program is successful this year, I aspire to continue it next year as asenior.” 
She said she was interested in starting the program because it brings together several of her interests. 
“I love American history because of our unique culture and opportunities that our coun-
Early 
continued from page 1 
appliedforearlyadmission. 

“Our admission rate for early applicants is higher because it is a higher ability [group] that has applied,” he said. “We encourage the higher ability students to feel comfortableapplying.” 
BishopsaidtheUniversitymakes it clear to applicants that only the strongest students shouldbe utiliz­ingtheearlyactionprogramdueto itsearlierevaluationperiod. 
“Our philosophy on early action is we encourage students who feel theiracademicrecordisashighas itisgoingtoget.Theyarereadyto be evaluated,” he said. “Generally we suggest to students that if they feeltheyareaclosecallforadmis­siontonotapplyearly.” 
BishopsaidtheUniversityislook­ingforthesehigherqualitystudents intheearlyadmissionprocess. 
“It is our goal to admit students who are above the profile, but to defer students who may gain admission in the regular action pool,”hesaid. 
Bishopsaidthe Universityisalso cautiousinthe number ofstudents they admit early so as to not take away spots from strong applicants intheregulardecisionprocess. 
“We have to hold enough posi­tions open so the regular action poolhasallthespotsavailabletobe fair to all the applicants. We have no interest in admitting too many students early and then having to tell higher ability students we ran out of spots,” he said. “We are always more careful in early action.” 
Bishop saidpartofthechallenge oftheadmissionsprocessistofind studentswhoarenotonlytalented, but also a good match for Notre Dame. 
“What we are looking for is not onlythemostimpressiveprofilebut the most impressive people that fit the Notre Dame mission,” he said. “We are looking for students who have already distinguished them­selves with a unique set of skills that combined with a Notre Dame education we believe will produce tremendously productive and cre­ativegraduates.” 
Bishop said the numbers for the overall applicant pool, including regular decision, is up 14 percent withroughly16,500applicants.He saidthisincreasecomparesstrong­lywithuniversitiesacrossthecoun­try. 
“Thehighlyselectiveschoolsthat reportedgainsinearlyactionappli­cations as a group were up by about half the increased of Notre Dame’sreportedgain,”Bishopsaid. 
In processing applications, Bishop said he has noticed one of the University’s strengths is the diverse location of the applicant pool. 
“Ifyoulookattheregionaldistri­bution, I think Notre Dame can be identified as the most selective highly national university,” he said. “We have probably the broadest national mix of students. We are notdominatedbyonesingleregion. I think that is an important attrib­uteofNotreDame.” 
Bishop said of the applications processed so far this year, 23 per­cent are from the East Coast, 12 percentfromtheSouth,33percent fromtheMidwest,25percentfrom the West, Southwest andMountain West, and seven percent are stu­dents living outside of the United States. 
Director of Admissions Bob Mundysaidtheamountofstudents visiting the school from across the countryhasbeenastrongindicator of the increase in applications. He saidvisitornumbersareup10per­centfortheyear. 
“That’s usually a pretty healthy indicator because students who visit have a two-thirds application rate,”Mundysaid.“Thatisasignif­icantfigure.” 
In addition to visiting students, Mundy said one other explanation for the increase in applications is found in the increase in travels of Universitycounselors. 
“Wehavetraveledmore.Wehad a couple of our counselors out in November, which was highly unusual for us,” he said. “Coming back from travel, they have com­mented on larger crowds at high schoolsandinformationnights.” 
Mundy said one of the strongest causes for increased applications has been an increase on the University’sbehalfinconveyingthe strengths of the Notre Dame expe­riencetopotentialapplicants. 
“Fromthepointofinquirytothe pointofapplicationIthinkwehave been much better at thoughtfully messaging them about student life atNotre Dame, academic opportu-nitiesatNotreDame,”hesaid. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
Legacy 
continued from page 1 

The final plans were sent to a public hearing, where the APC voted against giving the plans approval, halting construction and causing concern for stu­dents who had signed leases at the development. The final site plans, according to the APC, do not fit the original intention and useofPUDzoning. 
According to its website, the APC is a group of 15 members appointed to oversee the plan­ning, zoning and subdivision of landwithinthecounty. 
Junior Allie Hamman said she began looking at Legacy Square early on in the fall semester. She said students who had signed pre-lease agreements were sent e-mails from developer Robert CimalajustafterJan.1. 
Inthee-mail,Cimalasaidheis working on changes to get the plan approved, and the develop­mentbuilt,Hammansaid. 
“I’ll probably live there, if it’s still feasible,” she said. “It’s a nice location. There are a lot of if’s—likeifit’sbuiltontime.” 
Hamman said she was initially attracted to the project because try provides. I also enjoy volun­teering with children and have a lot of educational background experience,” she said. “I think it is important to have girls get involvedinlearningabouthistory in a fun and intriguing way. I thoughtoftheideaoverthesum­mer and started planning possi­bleideasfortheclub.” 
The dollswillbe chosenfrom a variety of time periods, Wassermansaid. 
“It’s hard to choose what dolls topick,”shesaid.“Thegirlsgeta wide scope of American time periods.” 
Wasserman said all meetings will be from 4 to 5 p.m. at the 

of the new buildings and fur­nishings. 
“There are no issues with pre­vious tenants to deal with,” she said. “It’s also not like living in an apartment building or house. Youhaveyourownspace.” 
Cimala was present atthe APC hearing along with his lawyer and several people in his defense. Speaking against the development was Northeast Neighborhood Reviltalization Organization (NNRO) attorney Dick Nesbaum, NNRO President Tim Sexton and Northeast Neighborhood Council (NENC) President Bill Stenz. Sexton is also the University’s associate vice president for state andlocal publicaffairs. 
The site plans did not have to go to the public hearing, council member Karl King said. The executive director of the APC, who normally approves or denies site plans, decided to send the plans to the public hearing because there were such strong feelings within the community on either side of the issue. 
The APC, after hearing from both sides of the debate, voted unanimously against secondary approval, with King abstaining from the vote because of con-Francis Branch of the St. Joseph County Library on the third Tuesday of every month, with a meeting at Centre Branch on the third Thursday every month except for March. The group will meet during the second week because of spring break. The meetingswillgothroughtoMay. 
Elementary students interested in joining can register online by going through Saint Mary’s cal­endar of events, or by calling Francis Branch Library at 282­4641orCentreBranchLibraryat 251-3700. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
flictinginterests. 

“This plan is not creative or innovative,” Nesbaum said. “It is more of the same. This is a neg­ative impact on the neighbor­hood.” 
Nesbaum said the APC’s job at the meeting was to look for con­sistency in the plans from their originalproposal to the final site plans. 
“The fact of the matter is they aren’tevenclose,”hesaid. 
If the project isn’t completed bynextyear, Hamman saidshe’s unsure if she will live off cam­pus. 
“I’m torn. I’ll probably just stay on campus,” she said. “It’s just easier. It’s so hard to find a new place, especially this late in the year. I’ll have to talk to the other girls I’m living with to see whatwewanttodo.” 
JamesA.Masters,theattorney representing Legacy Square, said the plans accomplish the intentofthePUDordinance. 
“To our knowledge, there are no requirements left to fulfill [to receive approval]. All that is required is the commission’s approval of the final site plan,” Masterssaid. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

page 6 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, January 19, 2011 Wednesday, January 19, 2011 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Obama and Chinese president share meal 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Eager to soothe tensions, President Barack Obama and Chinese President Hu Jintao shared an unusual and intimate dinner Tuesday night to discuss the strains and common goals that define the complicated relations betweenthetworivalpowers. 
The private dinner, in the Old Family Dining Room in the White House residence, came amid disputes over China’s cur­rency, trade and human rights policies and asearchfor cooper­ation on national security.Itpre­ceded a planned pomp-filled gala for Hu on Wednesday night and illustrated Obama’s careful mix of warmth and firmness for the leader of a nation that is at once the largest U.S. competitor and most important potential partner. 
Also at the dinner were national security adviser Tom Donilon and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Hu brought along two top Chinese officials. Underscoring the desire for can­dor, the White House said there were no official note-takers at the dinner and offered no read­outofthediscussions. 
For Hu, Wednesday’s pageantry would be an accom­plishment in itself. The U.S. has stiffenedits stance againstChina after initial entreaties from the Obama administration, and any images of a friendly welcome in the U.S. could serve to polish Hu’s image at home and abroad and to soften the American pub­lic’ssuspicionsaboutChina. 
Hu received red carpet treat­ment upon landing Tuesday afternoon at a wet Andrews Air Force Base,wherehewasgreet­ed by Vice President Joe Biden andamilitarycolorguard. 

For Obama, the visit repre­sents anopportunityto carry out the engagement he promised wouldbe atrademark ofhis for­eign policy. But Obama is also under pressure to show resolve as a range of interest groups — from business leaders to human rights advocates — press the administration to stand up to Beijing. 
The White House on Tuesday stressed that Obama did not intendtoavoiddifficultsubjects. 
“Whether we’re dealing with economic discussions, whether we’re dealing with those in the securityrealm,orwhetherwe’re doing those with human rights, I think this is an argument that we have and we’ll continue to make to the Chinese and push them to do better,” White House spokesmanRobertGibbssaid. 
A key moment will come Wednesday when Obama and Hu appear at a brief news con­ference. The two will take four questions — two from U.S. jour­nalists and two from Chinese reporters. The White House insistedthatthetwoleadersface reporters. 
In China, Hu’s public appear­ances are always under con­trolled circumstances that don’t lend themselves to spontaneity. Hu did take questions at a 2005 news conference with President George W. Bush in Beijing, but he refusedto do so when Obama visitedin2009. 
Obamaplanstohostameeting WednesdayafternoonforHuand 
U.S. and Chinese business lead­ers to promote increased U.S. exports to China and greater ChineseinvestmentintheUnited States. Among those scheduled to attend are CEOs Steve Ballmer of Microsoft, Lloyd Blankfein ofGoldman Sachs,Jeff Immelt of General Electric, Greg Brown of Motorola, Jim McNerney of Boeing and nine otherU.S.executives. 

U.S. 
companies have been longtime critics of Chinese poli­cies that kept its currency low relative to the dollar. A low-priced yuan makes Chinese products cheaperinthe U.S. and 

U.S. 
products more expensive in China. 


Two senators, Democrat Sherrod Brown of Ohio and Republican Olympia Snowe of Maine, sent a letter Tuesday to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithnerinforminghimthatthey plan to introduce legislation that wouldpenalizeChinaifitcontin­uestomanipulateitscurrency. 
But with the yuan rising 3.5 percent against the dollar since June, the currency dispute has in part given way to U.S. com­plaints about theft of intellectual property andbarriers to Chinese contractsforU.S.firms. 
In a letter to Obama on Tuesday, a coalition of financial organizations urged the presi­dent to prod the Chinese to open upits financial services sector to greater competition. U.S. ChamberofCommercePresident Thomas Donohue said the busi­ness community wants to make sure the U.S. continues a trend to expand exports to China and added that he worries China is showing favoritism to domestic industries. 
Congress tones down anger in light of shootings 
ahighly controversialbill. referred to the “job-destroying dent he’s got the votes,” the exceptions Tuesday to the rule 
Associated Press 

“We expect the debate to health care bill” that President House majorityleader said. of restraint that seemed to be 
WASHINGTON — Born of ensue along policy lines,” he Barack Obama won from a Barring Senate approval of in effect. bloodshed, a self-proclaimed said, suggesting one that did Democratic-controlled the repeal measure, Cantor Rep. John Garamendi, D-Age of Civility dawned in not strayfrom the merits of the Congress last year. It was a said House Republicans “will Calif., his voice rising as he Congress on Tuesday. legislation itself. small but notable change from do everything we can to delay addressed Republicans, said, Republicans and Democrats of Rep. Steny Hoyer of “job-killing” — the term and defund the health care “What in the world are you the House spoke without angry Maryland, the second-ranking Republicans had invariably bill.” That, too, would require guys doing” before he caught shouts and debated legislation Democrat, agreed. preferred before the shootings approval by the Senate and a himself in midsentence. “What to repeal the nation’s year-old “My expectation is that mem-in Arizona. presidential signature, unlikely in the world are our colleagues health care law without ran-bers will heed their own advice A few moments later, Rep. events that suggest a protract-doing” he said in more tem­cor. and will address the issues in a John Conyers, D-Mich., took a ed struggle over the bill that pered tone of voice before 
By unspoken agreement, way that will deal with them moment to congratulate Democrats passed ayear ago. going on to challenge their manners mattered, although on the merits,” he said. In the Republican Rep. Lamar Smith Republicans postponed the effort to repeal the bill. there were few overt refer-past, he added, too much of of Texas on his ascension to debate and vote on the repeal Across the aisle, Reps. Jeff ences to the reason — the the public debate was “about chairmanship of the House legislation from a week ago, Landry, R-La, and Joe Walsh, shooting rampage in Arizona incitement rather than inform-Judiciary Committee. It was a when lawmakers were still R-Ill., both referred to the 10 days ago that left six dead, ing . about making people post Conyers was forced to reeling from the shootings in existing law as “job killing,” Rep. Gabrielle Giffords wound-angry, disrespecting the ... surrender when the GOP won a Arizona. In the interim, law-the reference Ryan and other ed and lawmakers of both par-point of view of the other side.” majorityin last fall’s elections. makers in both houses and more senior members of their ties stunned. The change in tone was evi-Avote on the legislation is both parties have spoken pub-partyhad sheathed. 
House Majority Leader Eric dent from the opening set for Wednesday. Its passage licly of aneed for greater civil-While lawmakers toneddown Cantor, R-Va., said no direc-moments of the debate about a is not in doubt in a House now ity in Congress, an institution the debate, the Obama admin­tives had gone out to rank-bill Republicans promised in controlled by Republicans who that many also have noted is istration released a study say­and-file lawmakers cautioning last fall’s campaign to make an voted against the health care designed to permit deep differ-ing repeal of the existing law them about their behavior as early2011priority. bill ayear ago, plus newcom-ences to be argued out. could threaten between 50 mil-the House convened to debate Rep. Paul Ryan, R-Wis., ers who campaigned on its In a symbolic move, some lion and 129 million nonelderly repeal. Democrats are expect-members of Congress have men, women and children with ed to vote overwhelmingly if announced plans to sit next to denial of affordable health not unanimously against the lawmakers of the opposing insurance because they have GOP measure. party next week when Obama pre-existing medical condi-
The White House has said delivers his annual State of the tions. Obama will veto the bill if it Union address to a joint ses-The administration built its reaches his desk, and Senate sion ofCongress. estimate on changes in the law Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Still, Democrats, Republicans that already have taken effect Nev. has vowed not to let it get and outside political groups or might take effect by2014. that far. began maneuvering for politi-Republicans on the House 
At a news conference, Cantor cal advantage within hours of Ways and Means Committee challenged Reid to reconsider the shootings, and it will be issued a point-by-point rebut-his earlier statements that he months before the long-term tal that said the administra­would not call for a vote on the effects of the episode in tion’s claim was vastly over-measure. “He should bring it Arizona on Congress are clear. stated and accused Democrats up for avote if he’s so confi-And for sure, there were of “scare tactics.” 

page 8 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, January 19, 2011 
Investors unsure of Apple’s future 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — If investors were as visionary as Steve Jobs has proved to be during his 35 years of tech wizardry, they might be able to figure out whether Apple can still thrive if its founder and CEO doesn’t return from his indefinite medical leave. 
But Jobs’ prescience is a rarity, which is why doubt and anxiety will probably hang over the company until his fate is clearer. 
The iPod-iPhone-iPad revo­lution that Jobs unleashed over the past decade should ensure that Apple’s revenue and earnings keep growing for at least the next two to three years, according to analysts. What’s more, Jobs has assembled and trained a savvy, hard-driving manage­ment team that should be capable of following his road mapfor the company. 
The question is whether Apple can remain a step ahead and develop products that reshape technology, media and pop culture if Jobs isn’t around to divine the next big thing. 
Without Jobs, “Apple is a lot more like other compa­nies. Its extraordinariness fades,” says technology ana­lyst Roger Kay of Endpoint Technologies Associates. 
Apple Inc. announced Monday that Jobs, who co-founded the company in 1976, would take an indefi­nite medical leave for unspecified problems. The leave could be related to his previous bout with pancreat­ic cancer or his 2009 liver transplant. 
For now, investors appear to be hoping for the best. Apple stock fell $7.83, a little more than 2 percent, to close Tuesday at $340.65. It recov­ered more than half of that loss after the closing bell after reporting strong earn­ings. 
For the regular trading day, Apple lost $7 billion in market value, although most analysts believe Jobs’ leader­ship and presence is worth much more to the company. 


Two students shot in gun incident 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES — A gun in a 10th grader’s backpack dis­charged Tuesday when he dropped the bag, wounding two students at a high school, including one who remained in critical condition, police said. 
Both teens were hit with the same bullet, Los Angeles deputy police chief Patrick Gannon said. 
John Deasy, deputy superin­tendent of the Los Angeles Unified School District, said there was no indication the student with the backpack had touched the gun before it dis­charged. 
“He literally dropped his knapsack on the desk and it went off,” Deasy said. 
Gannon said the student apologized before running to another classroom. 
“He said, ‘I’m sorry,’ when the gun went off. It made it appear to the teacher that it was an accident,” Gannon said. 
Still, Los Angeles police Lt. John Pasquariello said it was a crime to bring a gun to cam­pus. The unidentified student was arrested and charges were pending, he said. 
“We don’t know exactly what happened,” Pasquariello said. “Traditionally, guns don’t go off without someone’s finger on the trigger.” 
A 15-year-old girl suffered a skull fracture and bruising to the brain and developed a sig­nificant blood clot when the bullet grazed her skull. 
The blood clot was removed successfully, but the girl remained sedated and in criti­cal condition, said Dr. James Ausman, a neurosurgeon at Los Angeles County Harbor-UCLA Medical Center. The girl’s family was byher side. 
A 15-year-old boy was in fair condition after being shot in the neck in a classroom at Gardena High School, a sprawling, 1950s-era school with rows of barracks-like classrooms 
The shooting occurred in a classroom at the school, where Principal Rudy Mendoza said students were on a break at the time. The campus was locked down after the incident. Police initially reported a shooter was at large. 
Student Semaj Elan was in an adjacent classroom when the shooting occurred. 
“My friend came up to me in the classroom talking about how she almost got shot. They’re gonna be traumatized by that,” Elan said. 
Numerous law enforcement agencies responded to the 2,400-student campus about 15 miles south of downtown Los Angeles. 
Nelda Robledo, one of the worried parents who gathered near the school, said her 16­year-old daughter texted her that students were ordered to get down on the ground or hide in a corner after the shooting. 
If the student is released on bail, the school will recom­mend to the district discipli­nary office that he be suspend­ed, district spokeswoman Gayle Pollard-Terry said. The office also could recommend expulsion, which would have to be approved by the school board. 
Expelled students are referred to the Los Angeles County Office of Education to complete their education. 
Shedric Porter, 14, said he was walking past the class­room at the time. 
“I didn’t see anything, but I heard the shot, and it was really loud,” he said. “I stopped. I was scared. Then I thought it was just a book or something hitting the ground, but it was too loudfor that.” 
It’s unclear how the student got in with the gun in his back­pack, Pollard-Terry said. 
Arriving students are checked with security wands on a random basis at Gardena High, she said. No district school is equipped with walk-through metaldetectors. 
Several parents said their children had described racial tension at the school. 
“There’s usually fights every­day, you’re going to see blacks against whites and whites against blacks every single day,” said Christy Westbrooks, whose 16-year-old daughter attends the school. “Spanish, whites, Samoans — they don’t care what race.” 
Discipline has long been a problem at Gardena, which ranks as one of the district’s lowest-performing high schools. Roughly 35 percent of students drop out. 
Five years ago, more than 2,000 students were suspend­ed, and 15 students were expelled. Those figures remained high until last year when the number of suspen­sions dropped to 300 and expulsions to two. 
Forming a discipline commit­tee was one of the principal’s goals for this year, according to the school’s website. 
Frantic parents rushed to the school after hearing about the shooting. They paced nervous­ly as they waited behind police tapes for word from their chil­dren. 
“I’ve never heard of anything like this before,” said Thomas Hill, whose 16-year-old and 18-year-old children attend the school. 
Cynthia Cano, 15, said she was in a Mexican-American social studies class when an announcement was made that the school was in lockdown. 
“We heard someone got shot. Everyone was freaking out a little,” she said in a telephone interview from inside the cam­pus. 
Gardena High School was the scene of a shooting in February 2002, when three assailants tried to hold up two students in an outdoor area. Two students were shot. 
In the past five years, two students have been expelled for firearms violations at Gardena High. 

Shriver, one of last links to JFK, dies 
Associated Press 

BETHESDA, Md. — R. Sargent Shriver, the exuberant public servant and Kennedy in-law whose career included directing thePeaceCorps,fightingtheWar on Poverty, ambassador to France and, less successfully, running for office, died Tuesday. Hewas95. 
Shriver, who announced in 2003 that he had Alzheimer’s disease, had been hospitalized for several days. The family said he died surrounded by those he loved. 
One of the last links to President Kennedy’s administra­tion, Shriver’s death comes less than two years after his wife, Special Olympics founder Eunice Kennedy Shriver, died on Aug. 11, 2009, at age 88. The Kennedy family suffered a sec­ondblow that same month when Sen.EdwardKennedydied. 
Speaking outside Suburban Hospital in Maryland, Anthony Kennedy Shriver said his father was “with my mom now,” and called his parents’ marriage a greatlovestory. 
At Eunice Shriver’s memorial service, their daughter Maria Shriver said her father let her mother “rip and he let her roar, and he loved everything about her.” He attended in a wheel­chair. 
The handsome Shriver was often known first as an in-law — brother-in-law of President John 
F. Kennedy and, late in life, father-in-law of actor-former California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. 
Buthisachievementswerehis­toric in their own right and changed millions of lives: the Peace Corps’ first director and the leader of President Lyndon Johnson’s “War on Poverty,” out of which came suchprograms as HeadStartandLegalServices. 
PresidentBarackObamacalled Shriver “one of the brightest lightsofthegreatestgeneration.” 
Wednesday, January 19, 2011 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Wednesday, January 19, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A basketball fashion trendsetter 
AnopenlettertoIrishbasketball coachMikeBrey: 
DearCoachBrey, 

Thankyousoverymuch.No,notfor constructingwinningteamsdespite academicstandards far,farhigherthan anywhereelseinthe BigEast.No,notfor carryingonforthe third-longesttenure intheconference despiteanobvious lackofattentionto yourprogramat whatisandalways Allan Joseph willbeafootball school. A ssistant 

Thankyoufor Sports Editor standingupagainst thetyrannyofthe tie. 
Asanyonewhohaseverattendedor watchedabasketballgameknows,bas­ketballcoachesareexpectedtodress uplikehighschoolersattendingtheir firsthomecoming.Adarksuit,awhite shirt,andatiewithoneoftheirteam’s colorsaresimplyexpected.Thisisn’t justinthecollegeorprofessionalranks, however.ThispastbreakIreturnedto thesmall,sweatygymatmyhigh schooltowatchtheCardinalstakeon thehatedStallions.Standingonthe sidelinesnexttoasquadofawkwardly pubescentboys,therewasthehead coach,dressedupinapinstripedsuit andatiethatlookedlikeitwasabout tochokehim.AndeventheStallions’ coach(whomIassumeisascumbagfor coachingthatsquad)woreamatching outfit. 
Thisisridiculous.Look,I’mahuge fanofatieintherightsituation.An interview,maybe,orawedding. Perhapseventheworld-famousYacht Dance.Butabasketballgame?Areyou kiddingme?You’rerunningupand downthesideline,tryingtomakeyour voiceheardoverthoseof10,000fans (ormore),tryingtocoachasportthat requiresathleticism…andyou’re expectedtowearsomethingthat chokesyou?No,that’snotright. 
JustlookatNFLcoachesorsoccer coachesorbaseballmanagers.They weartracksuits—orevenauniform. Besidestheobviouscomfortbenefitsof aeasy-breathingathleticattire,weall knowthatit’seasiesttobeatthetopof yourgamewhenyou’rewearingapair oftearaways—justincaseyou’re calledintoactionandyouneedtoget intoshortsrightaway. 
Butinbasketball,coachesstillwear suits.Youhavebeguntofightthebrave fightbyswitchingtothemockturtle­neck.It’stoomuchtoaskyoutoditch thesuitjacket,I’msure.Thedaywhen basketballcoachescanroamtheside­lineinsartorialfreedomisfaraway. Withyourefforts,however,youhave begunwhatIhopewillbeavibrant movementagainsttheirongripofthe half-Windsor.You,sir,areatrue American,standingupfortheconstitu­tionallyguaranteedrighttoafreeand unrestrictedneck.Iknowwhywebeat UConnearlierthisyear—it’sbecause JimCalhounhadtogameplanforboth ourplayersandourcoach,whohas attainedalevelofcomfortneverbefore seenonthesidelines. 
You,sir,areatruehero. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Facebook, Wikileaks and us 
The last year has been eventful for Mark Zuckerberg. Highlights include being the TIME Magazine Person of the Year for 2010, along with a recent $50 billion valuation of his brainchild, Facebook, by Edward A. Goldman Sachs. Larkin Less glowing was the cynical Scientifc portrait of him N otation presented in The Social Network, one of the year’s best films. During interviews the increasingly articulate Zuckerberg speaks passionately about the way Facebook is funda­mentally reorienting the Internet around people. A runner-up for Person of the Year was Julian Assange, founder of Wikileaks. The whistleblower website has made its way thunderously onto the interna­tional scene, embarrassing the United States by pouring massive amounts of documents about Iraq, Afghanistan and diplomacy into full public view. Both websites expose certain truths — both hopeful and uncomfortable — about the nature of the Internet. 
Facebook and Wikileaks represent opposing forces — personhood versus anonymity, community versus atom-ism. While Zuckerberg’s talk about Facebook restructuring the web may seem self-serving, it is undeniably true. Whereas the Internet used to be modern wild west — the ungovern­able, lawless, frontier — Facebook has instituted a measure of civility. People are now present on the Internet, in addition to simply user names. If the Internet is a microcosm of society, Facebook is the first step towards institutionalization and some measure of control. As Facebook becomes more integrated with the rest of the web, as it has and surely will continue to do, one can imagine an even more personal experience. We are now able to keep track and communicate with more friends, share our interests with a larger audience and see what matters to the people around us. If you go to the movie reviewing site RottenTomatoes.com, or the New York Times website, you can easily see on the home page what movies and articles your friends like. This is an undeniably positive development 
— in addition to being able to share in the experiences of those around us, it makes the Internet a more com­munal place. 
On the negative side, there will always be issues with privacy, and disturbed people who take advantage of the fundamental disconnect with reality the Internet provides — a la Catfish (an unsettling recent docu­mentary film about a woman who creates an entire community on Facebook). The illusory, not-quite­tangible nature of some Facebook relationships are not satisfying on their own, and will always lack the richness of interpersonal interaction. No human being can be accurately summarized in an “About Me” sec­tion. Facebook should be viewed as a place to augment and form relation­ships that have already or will even­tually translate into reality, not as an end in itself. 
Wikileaks, on the other hand, demonstrates the power of the Internet on the opposite end of the spectrum — anonymity. What Assange seeks — some sort of loosely constructed quilt of human rights, anarchy, the fall of the U.S. and transparency from governments and corporations — lacks rigidity. But it is of paramount importance, telling us that on a grand scale, the Internet is a vast, ungovernable place. When Wikileaks was kicked off its Amazon servers, dozens of mirror sites popped up, ensuring that there will always be some way to access it. 
Indeed, one can imagine that even if Julian Assange is imprisoned or Wikileaks itself is shut down, some other talented programmer will pick up the reins. The idea is far too allur­ing to die with one man or one web­site. Wikileaks is both diffuse and anonymous, and the massive docu­ment hemorrhages from the United States speak to its power. Like Facebook, it could be an incredible force for good — if it holds govern­ments and corporations accountable for things that are clearly in the pub­lic interest. Correspondingly, it is a potent tool to swing public mood and geopolitical relationships. If used for partisan purposes (anti-U.S.), the possibilities are much more ominous. 
The tension between personhood and anonymity has always, and will always, be a central issue of the Internet. The rapid growth of Facebook shows that most people do want to develop their own niche in the digital world. However, anonymi­ty is simply hardwired into the Internet’s DNA. It is great when used as a tool for free speech — sites like Wikileaks have real potential to improve the accountability of major institutions — At the same time, there is something undeniably sinis­ter about the anonymity afforded by the web, like walking along buzzing New York City streets only to veer off into an undesirable alleyway. The underside of the Internet is not pret­ty: One quarter of all searches are pornographic, anonymous cyber-bul­lying can have devastating conse­quences and it is not at all difficult to find hateful discussions and com­ments on everything from YouTube videos to newspaper articles. 
What makes the Internet great also makes it sordid. The bestowal of the ability to keep in touch with hun­dreds of friends goes hand in hand with less privacy. One’s prerogative to anonymously release important secrets that benefit the public also gives them the ability to utter anony­mous racial slurs or urgings for oth­ers to commit suicide. If you take one, you get the other. As long as humans constantly struggle between the light and the dark, so will the Internet. 
Edward A. Larkin is a senior with a double major in Biological Sciences and Classical Civilization. He can be reached at elarkin1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Goodbye Notre Dame. It has been great. 
To my fellow Irish students: 
I can’t thank all of you enough. You have been there for me and the rest of my teammates through the highs and lows and through it all, you have showed your loyalty and unwavering support. Every Saturday, you showed up and gave your all to make Notre Dame Stadium the best place in the country for college football, and for that, I’ll be for­ever grateful. 
I am so thankful to have had the opportunity to play foot­ball for the University of Notre Dame. I loved being both a student and an athlete here, and I’ll cherish each minute that I wore the blue and gold. This school and this city hold a special place in my heart and I intend to remain an 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The highest courage is to dare toappear to be what one is.” 
John Lancaster Spalding 
U.S. Bishop 
active part of this community that has given me so much. 
I am very excited about whatever the future holds for me, but know that regardless of where my next stop may be, I will always be Irish! 
Finally, I’d like to give special recognition to my little brother, Louis Nix III, who will be wearing the No. 9 and continuing the tradition! 
All the Best. 

Kyle Rudolph 
junior off campus Jan. 18 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“Don’t ever confuse the two, your life and your work. That’swhat I have to say. The second is only a part of the first.” 
Anna Quindlen 
U.S. author and journalist 


The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, January 19, 2011 page 11 
A DREAM Deferred 
Iftherewaseveraheartfeltpieceof legislation,it’stheDevelopment,Relief andEducationforAlienMinorsAct,bet­terknownastheDREAMAct.The DREAMActisameasurethatwillgreatly reformAmerica’s dysfunctional 
Adam Newman 
immigrationsys­temintheshort 

Scientia
termbyensuring 

potentia est 
hundredsofthou­sandsofyoung, undocumentedstudentsapieceofthe Americandream. 
America’simmigrationpoliciescreate manybarrierstosuccessfortheestimat­ed65,000undocumentedstudentswho graduatefromhighschooleveryyear. Whileitisnotillegalforthemtoattend college,itisextremelydifficultbecause undocumentedstudentsdonotqualifyfor federalaid,stateaidorin-statetuition. Moreover,oncetheseimmigrantsgradu­atefromcollege,itisextremelyhardto findworkbecauseemployersrequire numerouslegaldocumentsthatundocu­mentedalienscannotlegallyprovide. EventhoughthesestudentscallAmerica homeandcouldbeofgreatbenefitto America,ourimmigrationpoliciesdonot allowthemtomeettheirfullpotential. 
TheDREAMActworkstochangethis bycreatingathree-requirementroadto legalizationforundocumentedstudents. First,theundocumentedstudentmust havecometoAmericabeforetheageof 15,beundertheageof30atthetimeof thebill’spassage,andhavelivedin Americaforatleastfiveconsecutive years.Second,theundocumentedstudent musteithergraduatefromhighschool, earnaGEDorbeacceptedtocollege. Thosewhomeetthefirsttworequire­mentswouldqualifyfora10-yeartempo­rarylegalstatuswhereupontheywould beabletolegallywork,driveandobtain bothfederalworkstudyandstudent loans.Third,thosewiththetemporary legalstatusmustserveinthemilitaryor attendcollegeforatleasttwoyears. Uponcompletionofthethirdrequire­ment,thosewiththetemporarylegalsta­tuscanapplyfor“legalpermanentsta­tus.” 
Eventhoughhundredsofthousandsof undocumentedstudentswillbecomeeli­gibleforstudentloansandotherbenefits, theDREAMActwillnotaddtothe nationaldebt.Thenon-partisan CongressionalBudgetOfficefoundthat implementingtheDREAMActwould actuallyreducethenationaldebtby$2.2 billionover10years,mostlyfroman increaseintaxrevenuesfromotherwise undocumentedworkersreportingtheir incomeslegally. 
TheDREAMActhasreceivedimmense supportfromthebusinesscommunity. NewYorkCityMayorMichaelBloomberg wrotealetterinsupportoftheDREAM Actthatwasco-signedbyvariousCEOs, PresidentsandChairmenofmajorcom­paniesincluding:AmericanExpress,J.P Morgan,Pfizer,DeutscheBank,Macy’s andMorganStanley.EvenRupert Murdoch,ChairmanandCEOof NewsCorp,theparentcompanyofright­leaningFoxNewsandTheWallStreet Journal,co-signedtheletter. 
Recently,therewasamajoreffortto passtheDREAMAct.Thebillpassedin theHouse,butRepublicansusedthefili­bustertoholduptheDREAMActinthe Senate.SincetheDREAMActcouldnot attainthe60votesrequiredtoendthefil­ibuster(55senatorsvotedfortheDREAM Actwhile41votedagainstit),themeas­urediedintheSenate.Sincethe Republicansnowhaveamajorityinthe HouseandmoreSenateseats,the DREAMActhasalmostnochanceofpas­sagefortheforeseeablefuture.Itmaybe anotherdecadebeforetheDREAMAct becomesreality. 
Manyyoungimmigrantswhowouldbe affectedbytheDREAMAct’spassage, (nicknamed“DREAMers”)andthosewho supportedthemeasureeagerlywatched C-SPANduringtheSenatevote.Many wereintearsastheysawapieceoflegis­lationthatmeantsomuchtothemlose bysolittle.AsanAmericancitizen,this washeartbreakingtowitness. 
Whileresearchingforthisop-ed,Iread thestoriesofmanyDREAMers.Oneisan 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The gift of art 
Igraduatedinthelate1970’sintheFine Arts.Ihadhopesanddreams,andthenI gavebirthtoabeautifulbabyboyin1988. LittledidIknowthevaccinethatwasgiven himwouldcausehisautism. 
Theyearsofdrawinghimtoliveinour world,endlesstherapies,sleeplessnights, nowcomesbacktomyeducationatthisfine University. 
Ihavebeenofferedtoteachanartclassat HannahandFriends,anonprofitorganiza­tion.Itisaneighborhoodwherepeoplewith differentabilitiescanliveindependently withsupport.Myautisticsonjustmoved therethispastJune,andheisgoingtobe myassistant! 
Wethriveondonations,andwearein needofartsupplies.Thisspecialcharity wasfoundedbyMauraandCharlieWeisin honoroftheirbeautifuldaughterHannah. Pleasecheckoutourwebsite hannahandfriends.org 
Iwanttofocusonpainting.Wearein needofpaintbrushes,acrylicpaintsand canvases,andeasels.NowIgettosharemy talentsfrommyBFAdegreeatNotreDame withmyveryspeciallovingfriends. 
Thankyouforconsideringthisveryhonor­ablerequest.ThankyouDillonHallforall yourhelpanddonations. 
“Totheworldyoumaybeoneperson,but toonepersonyoumaybetheworld.” —Anonymous 
Katherine Robinson Coleman 
alumna Class of 1978 Jan. 5 

Thank you St. Edward’s Hall 
I’mwritingthislettertodaytosaythank youtobothFr.RalphHaagandthestudents inSt.Edward’sHall.Firstofall,Fr.Ralphis averykindandgenerousperson.Without gettingintospecifics,Fr.Ralphhasgone aboveandbeyondtohelpmeandmyfami­ly.Onmanyoccasionshehadcometomy aidbothpersonallyandprofessionallyand becauseofhimmylifeismuchbetter.He offersthishelpwithoutquestionandwasa sourceofsupportthrougharoughtime.I’ve heardoncountlessoccasionscommentsby studentsindicatinghowmuchtheyloveand appreciateFr.Ralphandallhedoesfor everyone.St.Edward’sHallisblessedto havehimasarector. 
Iwouldalsoliketosaythatthestudents thatliveinthehallareamongthemost courteousandrespectfulgroupofpeopleI know.Theyareconsiderateofthestaffand theirpeers.Theymakeitaprioritytokeep thingscleanandorderly,whichmakesmy jobsomucheasier.Theyshowadeeplevel ofrespectfortheirschool,housekeepers andfellowstudentsbyleavingthingstidy andorganizedandensurethatthebuilding andfacilitiesarewellcaredforduringtheir stay.Theymakesuretofindmedailytosay goodmorning.Theytreatmeasanequalor asecondmotherinsteadofanemployee. Theymakeitenjoyabletocometowork. 
BothFr.RalphandthestudentsofSt. Edward’sHallshouldbeveryproudofthe waytheycarrythemselves.Theyareashin­ingexampleoftheCatholicmissionand wayoflife.Iwouldjustliketothankthem personallybecausetheyareajoytoknow andserve. 
Ihopetheybothknowhowmuchtheyare appreciated. 
Maem Detaksone 

Notre Dame building services employee Jan. 17 
undocumentedstudentfromMexico namedEricBalderaswhowasbroughtto Americaasayoungchild.Hestudies biologyatHarvardandwantstobecome acancerresearcher.Recently,Ericwas almostdeportedduetohisillegalstatus. Hewasgrantedatemporarystaydueto hisstory’snationalpublicity.Anotheris DeividRibeirdo,whowasbroughtto AmericaillegallyfromBrazilatage seven.Deividwantstoattend MassachusettsInstituteofTechnology andbecomeacollegephysicsprofessor. However,duetohisillegalstatus,hecan­notreceiveaid.Bothofthesestudents wouldimmenselybenefitfromthe DREAMAct,andasaresultdirectlyben­efitthecountrytheycallhome:America. 
Therearehundredsofthousandsof otherDREAMerswhohavestoriessimi­lartoEric’sandDeivid’s;allyouhaveto doischangethename,homecountry andhowtheywanttoserveAmerica. Readingabouttheseyoungpeoplehas shownmethatevenasundocumented immigrantsfacechallenges,Americawill alwaysbetheirhome,evenif41senators don’twantittobe. 
Adam Newman is a sophomore majoring in finance. He can be contacted at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Off to the Pros 
We of the Rakes ofMallow wouldlike to congratulate JebBrovsky, Bilal Duckett andSteven Perry on beingdraftedlast Thursdayin the Major League Soccer Superdraft. We wishJeb andBilalluckin Vancouver as theyplayfor the expansion side Vancouver Whitecaps. We also wish Steven luck as he joins the New EnglandRevolution who are in the process of rebuilding. Thankyou for allyour commitment, passion and hard work these past four years, and mayyour professional career be successful, long andfull of trophies. 
Tim Staub 
junior Dillon Hall Jan. 15 

Welcome Back! 
Have any interesting experiences over break? 
Write a Letter to the Editor. 
The Observer 

Scene
page 12 Wednesday, January 19, 2011 
By JORDAN GAMBLE 
Scene Editor 
History classes have research papers, business classes do grouppre­sentations, but film students make movies. 
The 22nd Annual Notre Dame StudentFilmFestivalfeatures15short films created by students taking film production classes in the Department of Film, Television and Theatre. Students — film majors and non majors alike — often take their spring orfallbreakstoshootfootage. 
Ted Mandell, a professor for the departmentandthefestival’scoordina­tor, says the film festival gives the stu­dent filmmakers a chance to see real­worldreactionstotheirwork. 
“It’s a reward for all the hard work that they do,” he says. “Films are made to be shown in front of an audi­ence,they’remeanttobedigested. 
“It’s a great sounding board for the students and a great ... lesson for how your work is exhibited and how the audiencereactstoit.” 
Some of the student directors gave TheObserveraquickoverviewoftheir projects. 
The Elect 
Directed by Dan Moore and Erin Zacek 
Zacek: The Elect is a short, verite­style documentary that explores daily life inside the controversial Westboro Baptist Church. The film follows spokeswoman Shirley Phelps-Roper and her children as they carry out their day-to-day activities. Through a unique fly-on-the-wall perspective, the film allows the viewer to experience theoppressiverealityofeverydayexis­tence within the church, while gaining a sense of how such hatred could be passed down from generation to gen­eration. 
Our idea came from curiosity from seeingtheminthenews:theyaremost famousforprotestingatmilitaryfuner­als, and I was interested to see whyin the world a group of people would do something so terrible; there had to be areasonbehindtheirbehavior. 
Moore: I had first heard about the Westboro Baptist Church when they protested funerals of victims of the Northern Illinois University shooting back in 2008. I was furious and fasci­nated at the same time. What could create such senseless hatred? How could this spread from generation to generation?Whatisitreallylikeinside the church? Especially, what would it be like to be a child in this church? It was in hopes of answeringthose ques­tions that we traveled to Topeka to makethedocumentary. 
Zacek: Shirley Phelps-Roper and the restofher family were veryhospitable towards us, which was so strange because it was completely opposite of their hateful ideology. They bought us dinner one night, and made sure we had water bottles for our drive home. That was definitely unexpected, as wellastheirwillingnesstoletthecam­era into their daily life. We pretty much arrived at 7 a.m. and left at 7 
p.m. and they let us film what we wanted. 
Moore: The biggest challenge in making the film was surviving the shooting process. We spent two 10­hourdays,one12-hourdayandone4­hour day with members ofthe church. It was a mentally and emotionally drainingexperiencetoremainsilentin the face of their relentless proclama­tionoftheirshockingideology. 
Rosa Y Luna 
Directed by Javi Zubizarreta, Michelle Carlisle Lee and Marie Wicht 
Lee: Rosa y Luna is about the joys and challenges of single mother­hood. The bond between a mother and her baby cannot be easilybroken. Rosa is a young, single mother who is going back to work for the first time since giving birth to her baby Luna. Like many young women, she has to juggle work with motherhood on a limited income. Unlike most women, her job is as a full-time con­structionworker, andday care isn’t an option. 
Zubizarreta:Thescriptwasoriginal­ly written for a screenwriting class taught by Jill Godmillow. The assign­ment was to write a script based on NewYorkercoverart.Mydrawingwas of a female construction worker breastfeeding atop a metal sky-rise. It was certainly intimidating writing for thissubjectandcharacter—Iobvious­ly have no experience on the matter. So, I turned to my own mother, and talked to her about her experiences with motherhood and returning to work after having a child. She told me about the pain and hardship, and ulti­mately I channeled that into this film 
— taking many left turns along the way. 
Lee: Our first challenge may have been our biggest. We had to find a newborn Hispanic baby, and a mother who felt comfortable breastfeeding on camera withher baby ... We ended up finding our actress by putting out an ad on the Mexican radio station in town, WSBL 98.1 FM, and then meet­ing with all the women who were interestedatalocalrestaurant.Wegot very lucky — our actress did a great job. 
Wicht: We used the home of our actress, Tania. She lived in a very smallhomewithinwhichwecrammed the three of us, up to four extra crew members, the film equipment, lighting equipment and at times a crane rig for the camera all while simultaneously trying to film a space that made sure you couldn’t see any of that. Most of the interior shots took place in a space approximately 20 feet by 30 feet with seven people, lighting rigs, a crane about a yard wide and 7 feet tall, not to mention the normal furnitureandextraequipment. 
Another huge challenge was working with Tania’s daughter, a child of only one year, who we could never predict or direct. She was incredibly cooperative most of the time but we couldn’t ask her to smile on command. It was a new experience trying to bal­ance babysitting, directing, cin­ematography, loading film and everything else involved in makingafilm. 
Zubizarretta: Absolutely everything was a challenge making this film — from cast­ing to shooting to editing. For example, how do you make a button pop off a shirt on com­mand? There’s no information guide on that. And as a male director, how do you tell your actress that she, uh ... you know ... needs to look more ... more like ... she’s breastfeed­ing? There were many awk­ward moments along the way and speed bumps aplenty. But ultimately, with Marie and Michelle working so hard, it cametogetherwonderfully. 
Picking Up America 
Directed by Michael Burke and Marie Wicht 

Wicht: The film is a docu­mentary following the four young people of Pick Up America who are walking across the country picking up roadside trash in hopes of inspiring a nation-wide transi­tion to a zero-waste America. The idea actually came from mypartnerMichaelBurke who hadtheopportunitytomeetthe membersofPickUpAmericaat aconferencelastyear. 
The biggest technical chal­lenge of shooting Picking Up America was shooting a group of people who were constantly on the move. We never had time to set up a shot or really use a tripod, we had to con­stantly chase after the mem­bersofPUAwhiletheyworked. However, the biggest challenge in making the film otherwise was keeping focused on the 
The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, January 19, 2011 page 13 
shooting the film and not drop­ping the camera to help them intheircause.PickUpAmerica always needs volunteers and theamountoftrashontheroad wasshocking.Itwasfrustrating tobepresentand notbeableto pickuptrashwiththem. [They] picked up overaton oftrashin just the few days we filmed them. 
Sacrifice Hits 
Directed by Viviana Kim and Patrick Berry 
Berry: Sacrifice Hits is a per­sonal story of regret and redemption,andportrays base­ballasametaphorforlife. 
Kim: The idea sprung from an image that Pat had in his head: a 1950s setting in an alleyway with four or five young children playing ball together. That’s really where it allstarted. 
Berry: Viv and I picked a quotethatwelikedbyaformer Major League Baseball manag­er and went from there. The quote describes baseball as a metaphor for life, and we liked the idea of filming a baseball scene. After days of back-and­forth, Viv and I finally had a relatively coherent story to begintheproject. 
Kim:Shootingduring aSouth Bend winter with lots of equip­ment, a small but wonderful crew,adeadbatteryinthelight meter and several young chil­drenwasdefinitelyachallenge. I’dhavetogowiththeuntimely snow thatcamedownthe night before our first shoot that took place outdoors. But our kid actors are so adorable and great that I’m sure nobody will notice the continuity issues regarding South Bend’s weath­er. 
Berry:All of the soundin our project was recorded separate­ly from the film and largely in different locations. This includes the sound effects, voiceovers and ambience noise. Also, we sent an e-mail to [University President Emeritus Fr. TheodoreHesburgh]to doa voice over of the quote, not expecting a response. To our delight, he graciously agreed to provide the voiceover that bookendsourshort. 
Kim: The scene where young JP hits a baseball into the eld­erly woman’s milk bottles were shot on two different days. JP and his friends were shot in a completely different location from the elderly woman’s back porch location. The sound of that bottle breaking may have been the sound of a liquor bottle smashing on the side­walkinfrontofmyapartment. 
Searching For Dillinger 
Directed by Tom Demetrio and John Harig 
Harig:Thefilmisaboutasmalltown in Northwest Indiana called Monterey. Thetownishiddenawayinthemiddle ofnowhereandoftengetspeoplecom­ing through that are hiding out from the law or other things. John Dillinger wasrumoredtohavehiddenoutthere, and some of the older townspeople have stories of Dillinger and other gangsters hiding out there. Our docu­mentary is a humorous take on our attempts to uncover the mysteries sur­roundingMontereyandDillinger’stime there. 
We originally planned on making a serious documentary about Monterey, butafterseveralweeksofshooting,we realized that most of the townspeople were unwilling to go into great detail about what we wanted to know. After some suggestions from our professor, Tom and I decided to make the film intoaparodyofover-the-topinvestiga­tive reports. Luckily, the people we did interview from Monterey were quite a cast of characters and gave us some greatsoundbitesandshots. 
The Zebra’s Stripes 
Directed by Duncan Smith and Rob Schaus 
Smith:TheZebra’sStripes examines a traditional African folktale and the lessons it has to offer, set in a modern context. The storyis viewed through a child’s imagination, thus changing the traditional elements into a grade school setting of a 5-year-old girl. I read a story of the same title in an Africananthologyofpoemsandstories andwantedtotranslateitintoafilm. 
Youcan’ttellfromwatchingit,but... in actuality, the Zebra parents are the real-life parents of Bomani, the baboonvillain. 
On campus 

What: Notre Dame Student Film Festival Where: Browning Cinema,Debartolo Performing Arts CenterWhen: Jan. 20, 21 and 22, 6:30 
p.m. to 9:30 p.m.How much: $6, $5 faculty/staff,$3 students Learn more: ftt.nd.edu 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 

LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 
page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, January 19, 2011 
NBA 

Lebron misses lead to loss 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — Josh Smith made a go-ahead layup with 34.7 sec­onds left in overtime, Joe Johnson scored 19 points and the Atlanta Hawks beat Miami 93-89 on Tuesday night to send the Heat to a fourth straight loss. 
Johnson had a game-tying layup with 25.4 seconds left in regulation and two game-seal­ing free throws with 5.2 sec­onds remaining in overtime. Jamal Crawford also scored 19 for Atlanta. 
LeBron James scored 34 points and grabbed 10 rebounds for Miami, but missed a long 3-pointer at the end of regulation and another 28-foot try as the shot clock was expiring late in overtime and the Heatdown by two. 
Dwyane Wade finished with 27 points for the Heat, who got 16 rebounds — with no shot attempts —from JoelAnthony. 
The Heathad achance to win it at the end of regulation after Johnson knotted the game, but chose not to call time-out for a final play. Instead, they worked the clock down and set up James for a 28-footer that banged off the side of the rim justbefore the buzzer. 
Miami had three game-tying scores in overtime, the last of those coming when James made a 3-pointer with 51.9 seconds left. The Heat didn’t score again. 
Atlanta got 15 points and 12 rebounds from Smith, 15 points from Mike Bibby and 11 from Mo Evans. The Hawks tried a season-high 31 3-pointers, making seven. 
Eddie House scored 12 for Miami, and Mario Chalmers added10. 
The Hawks played most of the second half without Al Horford, who sprainedhis right ankle early in the third and departed with six points and nine rebounds. 
Miami’s lead was 70-64 when Wade made a fadeaway jumper with 4:26 left, but on a night where neither team ever enjoyed much in the way of offensive flow, the Heat picked the wrong time to go cold. 
Bibby’s fourth 3-pointer of the game with 2:32 left got Atlanta within 72-70. Evans tied it a half-minute later with a pair of free throws, Smith hit two more to give the Hawks the lead, and Bibby made another for a 75-72 edge with 1:23 remaining. 
That’s when James tried to take over. 
A pair of free throws got Miami within one, and he sim­ply overpowered Bibby for a layup and foul to give the Heat a 77-75 edge — but Johnson sent the game into extra time. 


Anthony’s start — just the fifth of his career at power for­ward — was needed because Chris Bosh sat out with a sprained left ankle. James’ sta­tus for the game wasn’t clear until just before game time because he, too, has been hob­bledby asprainedleft ankle. 
“We do have versatility on the roster,” Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said before the game. “This is probably the time it’ll show the most, playing guys that weren’t necessarily play­ing big minutes, they’ll be able to step up and have their opportunity.” 
Anthony must have been lis­tening. 
According to STATS LLC, only Dennis Rodman — who had 20 rebounds with no attempted free throws or field goals for San Antonio on Jan. 25, 1994, plus had an 18-rebound, no-shot game for the Spurs three weeks earlier —had at least 16 rebounds in a game without ever trying ashot of any sort. 
It wasn’t enough, on a night when there were plenty of rebounds to be had. 
Atlanta nearly held the Heat to single digits in the opening quarter, setting the tone for an offensively challenged night all around. 
Only Chalmers’ buzzer-beat­ing 3-pointer at the end of the first saved Miami from that indignity, as Atlanta — which forced the Heat into missing 15 of their first 18 shots — ended the opening quarter up 19-11. James started 1 for 8 from the floor, missing his last six tries ofthe period. 
The Hawks’ befuddling of Miami continued in the second. When Bibby hit a 3-pointer with 6:37 to play in the half, Atlanta led 30-17, and the Heat looked totallylost. 
It changedquickly. 

Miami scored the game’s next 13 points, James getting five of them, including a shot in the lane with 2:47 left — moments after Anthony blocked a dunk attempt by Johnson — that knotted the game at 30. Eddie House’s 3-pointer 42 seconds later put the Heat on top, and Miami took a 35-34 lead into halftime. 
The Heat shooting improved in the third quarter as well — up to 46 percent, less than riv­eting but far better than the showing in the first half. Turnovers, though, were the damningfactor. 
Atlanta forced six takeaways in the third, getting 13 points off them, more than enough to stay in the game. The Hawks led 58-55 going into the fourth, after a third period that fea­tured five lead changes, four ties and neither team ever leadingby more than six. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Paul sparks Illinois past Michigan State 
Associated Press 

CHAMPAIGN, Ill.— Brandon Paul scored 17 of his 20 points in the first half to lead No. 23 Illinois past 17th-ranked Michigan State 71-62 on Tuesdaynight. 
The Illini (14-5, 4-3 Big Ten) led 53-43 on a 3-pointer by Paul with 13:08 to play. But they had to hold off a late Spartanschargeandultimately won with seven free throws from four players that built a two-point lead back up to 65­57with5:25left. 
Demetri McCamey had 15 points and 11 assists, and Jereme Richmond added 14 points offthe benchfor Illinois. The win ended a two-game skid for the Illini that included defeats at Penn State and Wisconsin. 
Michigan State (12-6, 4-2) was led by Kalin Lucas, who scored 15 points. Raymond Green had 12 but fouled out with36secondstoplay. 
The Illini led 41-37 at half­time and outscored Michigan State 12-6 over the first 7min­utesofthesecondhalf. 
They closed that stretch with two inside points from Richmond on a long pass from McCamey that sliced just over the outstretched hands of two Spartans defenders and a 3­pointer from Paul after Richmond forced a Michigan Stateturnover. 
After a dunk that had revved up the home crowd, Lucas hit a 3-pointer that quieted fans and pulled the Spartans to 59­53with10:28remaining. 
Just 46 seconds later, Delvon Roe sank a short basket that cut the Illini lead to 59-55. With8:55toplay,Roetippedin amisstoitto59-57. 
The Illini, after riding their outside shooting much of the night, spent the next 3minutes methodically rebuilding their leadatthefreethrowline. 
Mike Tisdale hit one, fol­lowed by two each from McCamey, Mike Davis and Richmond to stretch Illinois’ edgebackto65-57. 
Davis finished with 11 points and11rebounds. 
Paul’s first-half outburst included nine points on 3-for-3 shootingfrom3-pointrange. 
The sophomore guard, com-ingoffthebench,hitone3that capped a 7-0 Illini run that gave Illinois a 28-23 lead with 8:24toplayinthefirsthalf. 
Justunder5minuteslaterhe nailed his last 3-pointer of the half from the baseline in front of the Michigan State bench, giving the Illini a 38-31 cush­ion. Less than a minute later he added a three-point play when he was fouled by Keith Appling. 
Paulplayeddefense,too. 

With 2:16 to play in the half and Illinois leading 41-35 he sprinted the distance of the court to chase down Korie Lucious, cleanly swattingdown what looked like an easy layup offanIlliniturnover. 
After losing their shooting touch in back-to-back road losses to Penn State and Wisconsin, Illinois found its form. The Illini went 25 of 47 
(53.2 percent) from the field and made eight of their 17 3­pointers. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
— WANTED STRAT-O-MATIC baseball league looking for managers. Call 574-271­0185  NOTICES If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu  Now, some Office: Guess what? I have flaws. What are they? Oh I donno, I sing in the shower? Sometimes I spend too much time volunteering. Occasionally I'll hit somebody with my car. So sue me-- no, don't sue me. That is opposite the point I'm trying to make. -Michael Scott  There is a master key and a spare key for the office. Dwight has them both. When I asked, "what if you die, Dwight? How will we get into the office?" He said, "if I'm dead, you guys have been dead for weeks." -Pam Beesly  Michael Scott: Man I would love to burn your candles! Jan: You burn it you buy it! Michael Scott: Oh good! I'll be your first customer! Jan: You're hardly my first. Michael Scott: THAT'S WHAT SHE SAID!!  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Wednesday, January 19, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NFL 

Lower-seeded Packers, Jets take down top teams 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The NFL can’t be upset with so many upsets in the playoffs. 
What better evidence is needed that the “anybody can win at any time” mantra is accurate when two No. 6 seeds are in the conference championship games? And nobody would be shocked to see both the Green Bay Packers and New York Jets in the Super Bowl. 
Indeed, the wild-card Packers are favored for Sunday’s NFC title game at Soldier Field, home of the champions of their division, the Chicago Bears. 
“Yeah, we’re championship caliber,” Packers linebacker 
A.J. Hawk said. “But champi­onship caliber to us isn’t get­ting to the NFC championship game. We have a lot higher goals than that. We’re where we want to be. We’ve been saying all year, ‘Just give us a chance to get here.’ Now, it’s up to us.” 
And up to the Jets to set up the first Super Bowl involving non-division winners. 
“The idea is to win the Super Bowl, whether you do it by winning your division or as a wild card,” Jets corner­back Darrelle Revis said. “Keep winning.” 
Long shots going far in the playoffs, even winning Super Bowls, is not unheard of. 

Consider that since the league went to six playoff teams in 1990 — there were three divisions and three wild cards until 2002 — wild cards have made the title game 14 times. Counting the Packers and Jets, eight of those have occurred since 2005. Two of those wild cards, the 2005 Steelers and 2007 Giants, won the whole thing. 
In ‘05, ‘08 and this year, a wild card got to the confer­ence championship match. No Super Bowl has featured a pair of non-division win­ners. 
“We have a lot more, our season is bigger than just beating the Falcons and going to the NFC champi­onship game,” Packers defen­sive tackle B.J. Raji said. “We’ve got bigger goals than that. ... We expect to win no matter where we go.” 
They go to Chicago, where the Bears beat them 20-17 in Week 3, a horrendous per­formance in which Green Bay set a team record with 18 penalties. And barely lost. 
The Packers won 10-3 at Lambeau Field in the season finale to clinch their wild­card spot. They’ve beaten Philadelphia and top-seeded Atlanta in road playoff games, and now are a victory away from becoming the sec­ond No. 6 seed to win a con­ference championship. 
NHL 

Crosby hopes to heal up by All-Star game 
hits to the head, particularly 
Associated Press 

from the blind side. Hedman did 
PITTSBURGH — Penguins receiveaboardingpenalty. captain Sidney Crosby is feeling Crosby denied a report in better despite a concussion that Canada’s Globe and Mail news-has sidelinedhim for six games, paperthathemightskiptheAll­but doesn’t know when he can Star game to protest the lack of resumepracticingorplaying. punishment. 
Crosby’s status for the NHL “That’s not even close,” All-Star game Jan. 30 in Crosby said. “I’ll be there if I Raleigh, N.C., is uncertain, can be there and I still haven’t although he said Tuesday there ruled out being there. Hopefully is a “slight chance” he could be in the next few days, things get backforit. better. There’s aslight chance I 
“It’s tough to put atimetable canstillbebackforthat.” onit,”hesaid. If Crosby doesn’t return until 
Crosby, the NHL’s leading after the All-Star game, he scorer despite being out for would miss at least nine games. nearly two weeks, is experienc-However, he would get an extra ing occasional headaches that week of rest without sitting out are preventinghim from return-any games because the ing. The Penguins have said Penguins don’t play after their Crosby will not take the ice Jan. 25 game against the again,evenforpractice,untilhe Islanders until they meet the issymptomfree. RangersonFeb.1. 
“It’s kind of hard to judge As for the hits not drawing because it’s not something I’ve scrutinyfromtheleague,Crosby gone through before,” said saidthatis“outofmyhands.” Crosby, who was scheduled to “If anything, it’s frustrating sit out the Red Wings-Penguins being out, but (the hits) are not game on Tuesday night. “I’m what fuels the frustration,” he progressing. It’s on and off. ... said. “The frustratingpartis not Some days you feel good, you being able to play hockey every feel like you’ve made progress. day.” Somedaysareabittougher.” The first concussion of the 23­
Crosby was injured after year-old Crosby’s career is giv­absorbing hits to the head in ing him greater insight into the successive games from the difficulty of mending from one. Capitals’DavidSteckelonJan.1 Not onlyis he not practicing, he against Washington in the is not exercising or exerting Winter Classic and the himself off the ice. He did make Lightning’s Victor Hedman on an appearance to sign auto-Jan. 5. Neither player was fined, graphs Monday night at the even though the NHLis taking a team’s annual charity bowling tougher stance this season on event. 
Don’t expect the Bears (12­
5) to treat the Packers (12-6) like some rank outsider standing in their way. Not with all that history accom­panying the longest rivalry in pro football. Not with the way Green Bay’s defense has stymied two of the league’s best offenses the last two weeks, or the way quarter­back Aaron Rodgers is play­ing. 
Rodgers, though, has not done much against Chicago this season, throwing for 545 yards, two touchdowns and two interceptions in the 1-1 split. 
Bears coach Lovie Smith expects the usual animosity between the teams, who will face off for the 182nd time, but just the second in the postseason and first since 1941. 
“You just look at our histo­ry and it does have a respect­ful tone, but it can be nasty also,” Smith said. “It’s going to be a physical game. We don’t like each other. 
“Believe me, there is not a whole lot of love for us com­ing up north. But games are supposed to be played on the field.” 
Hours later at Pittsburgh (13-4), the Jets also could add to the Super Bowl wild­card total against the only previous sixth seed to make a Super Bowl, the Steelers, who then beat Seattle for the 2005 title. 

The Jets (13-5) were the fifth seed a year ago and got this far. Indeed, until last year, when the top-seeded Saints and Colts each made the Super Bowl, the No. 1 teams from both conferences hadn’t gotten there since the 1993 season. 
So road wins aren’t that unusual, and the Jets are the best example: They are 4-1 in the playoffs under coach Rex Ryan, all of those games away from the Meadowlands. 
“We know what it was like to play in a tough environ­ment,” quarterback Mark Sanchez said. “We knew that all of our games were going to be on the road because of our seed. We know how to play on the road; I think we’re better on the road, so that’s a huge help for us. We have a lot of experience doing it.” 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 19, 2011 
NBA 

Anthony not stalling trade 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. — A person with knowledge of the proposed Carmelo Anthony trade says the holdup is over the framework of the deal, not the All-Star forward’s willingness to commit to New Jersey. 
Though they appeared close to a deal 11 days ago, the teams are still negotiating what the Nets would send to Denver, the person told The Associated Press on Tuesday on condition of anyonymity because he was not authorized to speak publi­clly about the trade. 
New Jersey has offered to ship six players and at least two first-round draft picks to Denver in the deal that would send Anthony to the Nets along with former Pistons team­mates Chauncey Billups and Richard Hamilton. 
But the teams haven’t been able to agree on the exact price that will persuade the Nuggets to finally part with their fran­chise player 
The person added that the Nets are not concerned about Anthony’s commitment to the franchise for the long term should the trade be completed, saying they are convinced the 26-year-old will sign a $65 mil­lion, three-year contract exten­sion if New Jersey, Denver and Detroit can agree on the others parts of the deal. 
The teams continued their negotiations on Tuesday, but lit­tle was happening, the person said. 
Anthony has refused to sign an extension that the Nuggets put on the table before the sea­son started, leading Denver to listen to trade proposals. 


The Nets and Nuggets came close to making a deal for Anthony before the season started. Talks renewed in earnest after New Year’s with more than a dozen players involved in what has to be con­sidered a megadeal. 
However, the on-again, off-again process appears to be weighing on Anthony and casu­al observers. 
“I stopped following it. It’s getting to the point where you’re just like, move on already or don’t,” said Miami guard Dwyane Wade, a friend of Anthony’s “I’m sure ‘Melo is more tired of it than anybody. But it’s just to the point, as a sports fan, you’re just, ‘All right, it’s just enough.’ I’m sure for everybody in Denver and every­body in New Jersey as well, and whatever other team comes into it, it’s been a long saga. It’s been a long soap opera. Hopefully it comes to an end and they can focus on basket­ball.” 

There were reports over the weekend that the Nets had asked for and received permis­sion from the Nuggets to talk to Anthony. 
The high-scoring forward scoffed when asked about them Sunday, calling the reports false. 
“I don’t want to talk to nobody,” Anthony said. “I’ll let the front office handle that. It ain’t my job to be talking to New Jersey, New York, Lakers, Dallas, no one. That’s not my job to do.” 
Anthony, who could become a free agent at this season, is the centerpiece of the deal and a star that New Jersey feels it can build a team around, especially when it moves to Brooklyn for the 2012-13 season. 
NFL 

Players file collusion claim against owners 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — The NFL players’ union filed a collu­sion claim against the league ’s owners, another move in the back-and-forth between the sides as they near the expiration of their labor contract. 
The union originally had until December -90 days after the start of the season ­to accuse teams of conspiring to restrict players’ salaries last offseason, but the league agreed to extend that dead­line. 
“They have filed that claim. They filed it probably a week ago. There has been no activ­ity at this point. But it’s 
somethi ng moving 
“This is not going to 
that was not forward; the unexpected,” get resolved through possible move the league’s litigation. It will get to an 18-game lead labor regular season; 
resolved through
negotiator, a rookie wage Jeff Pash, negotiation.” scale; and pen-said Tuesday, sions for former when owners players. 
Roger Goodell
met in In Atlanta, 
NFL commissioner
Atlanta. “It’s just another piece of liti­gation that we have to work our way through. So we will do that.” 
The case is before Stephen Burbank, the same special master who is considering a complaint about the league’s TV contracts, which the union says were set up to guarantee the NFL money even if there were a lockout this year. 
Union spokesman George Atallah said Tuesday he could not comment on the collusion case. Pash said no date has been scheduled for a hearing. 
“It is something they were committed to doing. Their attorneys told us that they didn’t see any reason to delay it any further,” Pash said. “Our reaction was, ‘That’s fine. If you feel you have a claim and want to file, go ahead and file.”’ 
Collusion has been an issue in Major League Baseball, and as recently as September, for example, players and owners in that sport settled allegations of possible collu­sion against free agents after the 2008 and 2009 seasons. 
As part of the agreement ­with no admission of guilt by the teams -some of base ­ball’s free-agency rules were changed. 
In the 1980s, arbitrators found baseball teams acted in concert against free agents following the 1985, 1986 and 1987 seasons, and the sides agreed to a $280 million set­tlement -which took until 2005 to be completely dis­tributed to the players fol­lowing claims hearings. 
NFL owners and players are trying to negotiate a col­lective bargaining agreement to replace the one that expires in March. Among the key issues are how league 
revenues will 
be split by the 
sides 

NFL 
Commissioner 
Roger Goodell was asked about the collusion claim. 
“It’s more litigation. I’ve said before: This is not going to get resolved through litiga­tion,” Goodell said, according to the NFL Network. “It will get resolved through negotia­tion. It’s time to get to the table and negotiate.” 
The union’s TV complaint that Burbank is considering says the NFL structured con­tracts with its broadcast partners to make sure rights fees would be paid even with no games in 2011 -while not maximizing revenue from 
other seasons when the league would need to share that income with players. The union says that violates an agreement between the sides that says the NFL must make good-faith efforts to maxi­mize revenue for players. 
The union says the league will receive $4 billion in TV revenue this year, whether a season is played or not; the NFL says its TV contracts normally protect the league against the possibility that games might be lost. 


Wednesday, January 19, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NFL 

McDaniels hired by Rams 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS — The St. Louis Rams hired former Denver Broncos coach Josh McDaniels as their offensive coordinator on Tuesday. 
McDaniels replaces Pat Shurmur, who was hired by the Cleveland Browns as head coach earlier this month. 
“We are happy to announce that Josh will be a part of our staff,” coach Steve Spagnuolo said in a state­ment. “I’ve always recog­nized that he is one of the top offensive minds in the NFL. We think he is a great addition to our organization.” 
McDaniels parlayed success as an offensive coordinator with the New England Patriots into his first head coaching job and at age 32 was the NFL’s youngest coach in 2009. He favors the spread offense, run by quarterback Sam Bradford in college. 


Bradford, the top pick of the last draft, broke several of Peyton Manning’s NFL rookie records last season. 
McDaniels was let go by the Broncos on Dec. 6, with four game left in the regular sea­son and in the midst of the franchise’s worst slump in four decades. After winning his first six games of his rookie season, the Broncos lost 17 of the last 22, and the team also had several of issues off the field. 
McDaniels also was fined $50,000 by the NFL after a videographer violated league rules by videotaping a San Francisco 49ers practice in London in October. 
The Rams made a six-victo­ry improvement last year under Spagnuolo, who’ll be entering his third season. 
McDaniel was with the New England Patriots from 2001­08, and was a personnel assistant on the ‘01 team that beat the Rams in the Super Bowl. New England won two more Super Bowls and totaled four AFC champi­onships in his eight seasons with the franchise, the last three as offensive coordina­tor. 
In McDaniels’ first season with the Broncos, Kyle Orton set career highs for pass, completions, passing yards, touchdown passes and passer rating while tying his career low for interceptions. Orton’s 3,802 yards were the sixth highest for a season in Broncos history. 
Last season, the Broncos were seventh in the NFL in passing yards and 13th in total offense. 
NFL 

Bears’ offense fnds its stride in postseason 

Associated Press 

LAKE FOREST, Ill. — Tight end Greg Olsen sprinted past Lawyer Milloy, hauled in the pass from Jay Cutler and didn’t stop running until he hit the end zone with a 58-yard touch­down. 
TheChicago Bearskeptgoing, too. 
They gained 473 yards and racedpasttheSeattleSeahawks 35-24 in a divisional playoff game last week, showing that even with a simpler offense, theycanstillbeprettycrafty. 
When the Bears face the Packers for the NFC champi­onship, they’ll need another big effort to get by their old rivals, similar the one they delivered againsttheSeahawks. 
As good as they looked against Seattle, Olsen said they’re “not even close” to wheretheycanbe. 
“We’re still kind of going up,” he said. “I still think we have a lot of untapped potential that we’re still kind of trying to get to. ... Even going into next year and the future, the young guys that we have and the experi­ence that this season has given us, going through the ups and downs that we had earlier in the year — I think this year has been good for us on a lot of dif­ferent fronts. We still have our chance this year ... to reach the ultimate goal. One more game away from putting ourselves in that position, that’s where all ourfocusis.” 
They’ll need to be sharp on Sunday against Green Bay if they’re going to make it to DallasfortheSuperBowl. 
It’s one thing to roll over a team with a losing record and one of the league’s worst defenses. Cutler and the rest of the offense expect to have their hands full against the Packers defense. 
“After last year, the disap­pointment, the struggles we had offensively and we’re kind of rebuilding this year and with Mike (Martz),” Cutler said. “It’s been fun, but it’s not over yet. We still have some business to takecareof.” 
It hasn’t been easy for the Bears, who struggled early while their quarterback was getting pounded. They commit­ted to the run at midseason and had abigturnaroundthatledto the NFC North title and a first­roundplayoffbye. 
They kept rolling against Seattle, pulling out a few sur­prises to keep the Seahawks off balancerightfromthestart. 
The Bears handed off to Matt Forte on their first two plays from scrimmage and then the quarterback and tight end madethefirstbigstrike. 
On his first career playoff attempt, Cutler found Olsen deep downfield when he beat Milloy for that 58-yarder, set­tingthetoneforthevictory. 
When he wasn’t beating the Seahawks with his arm, Cutler was doing it with his legs. There was a 6-yard scoring run off a draw play in the second quarter, and with a shovel-pass option in the third, he kept it and rolled to his right for a 9­yard touchdown that made it 28-0. 
He was making the right deci­sions, and the Bears kept it going when Kellen Davis caught a 39-yard TD off a play-action play in the fourth. Considering he had only one catch in the regular season, that play was a surprise, but it was another example of the way the Bears were keeping Seattle off bal­ance. 
Cutler became just the second quarterback in NFL history to throw for two touchdowns and run for two in a postseason game, joining Cleveland’s Otto Graham. He threw for 274 yards and finished with a 111.3 rating, the third highest among Bears QBs with at least 20 attemptsinaplayoffgame. 
“We feel real good about where he is,” coachLovie Smith said. “He’s come a long way. He’s capable of making plays like that. I really like the deci­sionshe’smaking.” 
Olsen also had a career day, catching three passes for a per­sonal-best 113 yards. It showed just how valuable he can be in the passing game after seeing his statistics decline in his first yearinMikeMartz’ssystem. 
Olsen’s 41 catches and 404 yards were the fewest for him since his rookie year in 2007, whenhe finishedwith39 recep­tions and391yards. He has one more year left on his contract, and althoughhe’safavorite tar­get of Cutler, there are fewer opportunities in asystem where a pass-catching tight end isn’t a priority. 
Martz values blocking at that position, and although Olsen has improved somewhat in that area,it’sfarfromhisstrength. 
“Ihave been comfortable with Greg since I got here,” Cutler said. “Heis areallyfriendlytar­get. He works the middle of the field really well, he knows zones, he knows when to sit down, he knows when to go, he’s got a really good football feel. It isn’t anything new. A lot of teams try to take him away becausetheyknowheisgood.” 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, January 19, 2011 
NFL 

Colts’ Irsay eager to negotiate with Manning 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Peyton Manning is expected to get a pay raise next season. 
Oft-injured safety Bob Sanders mayhave to take apay cut, and longtime Colts running backs coach Gene Huey is look­ingfor anew job. 
It’s just one week into Indianapolis’ offseason and already one of the NFL’s most stable teams is preparing for the whirlwind of twists and turns. 
“Yeah, I think something will get done (with Manning), but it’s hard to predict when,” Tom Condon, the agent for Manning and Sanders, told The AssociatedPress on Tuesday. 
At first glance, it looks as if this willbe one of the least con­tentious negotiations in league history. 
Team owner Jim Irsay reiter­ated late last week that he still intends to make Manning, the only four-time MVP in league history, the NFL’s highest-paid player. 
But first, the two sides must agree on who holds the distinc­tion now. 
Manning’s expiring deal, signed in 2004 for $98 million, was one of the largest ever at the time. Four quarterbacks — Michael Vick, Carson Palmer, Ben Roethlisberger and Donovan McNabb — all agreed to deals totaling at least $100 million, though each of those contracts was longer than Manning’s. Vick’s record-setting $130-million contract also was later voided. 
Or it could be annual average salary. Manning’s younger brother, Eli, signed a six-year deal with the Giants worth $97.5 million last year, giving him $16.25 million per year. New England’s Brady topped that in September, agreeing to a four-year contract worth $72 million, or $18 million per year. 
Or perhaps it could be based on guaranteed money. Rams quarterback Sam Bradford got a record $50 million guaran­teed in his rookie contract last summer. Even Brady, a three-time Super Bowl winner, could-n’t top that. He got $48.5 mil­lion. 
Irsay has generally cited Brady’s deal as the standard, andhe’s made it clear he wants Manning to stay with the Colts for the rest ofhis career. 
Both sides say negotiations have notyetbegun. 
“I’m not going to get into any specifics in terms of the negoti­ations, but I’ve said before this is an unusual situation,” Irsay told The Associated Press. “It’s not a normal negotiation, his legacy and our relationship, it’s very unusual. You hope it hap­pens alot, butitdoesn’t.” 
Irsay wanted to reach a new deal last summer and when that didn’t happen, the Colts tried to make Manning aformal offer during their bye week. Condon then told them Manning wanted to focus on football, not contracts, until after the season. 
Now, things could get compli­cated. 
Manning turns 35 in March and although Irsay wants to make him a Colt for life, age could certainlydictate how long Manning signs for — and that could impact the deal’s total value. 
And this time, the Colts will have to negotiate without a col­lective bargaining agreement to guide them. 

“I think we’re going to have to try to move forward with some things before early March, knowing (about the CBA) or not,” Irsay said. 
Manning’s contract isn’t the only concern for Irsay. 
Indy’s list of potential free agents includes running back Joseph Addai, safety Melvin Bullitt, left tackle Charlie Johnson, defensive tackle Dan Muir, linebacker Clint Session and kicker Adam Vinatieri. The good news is none of those players can sign with another team until a new CBA is in place. 
The bad news: They still need room to be flexible. 
One way to save money could be redoing the $37.5 million contract Sanders signed after winning the 2007 NFL Defensive Player of the Year Award. Sanders has played in only nine regular-season games over the past three seasons, and he’s missed more games 
(64) than he’s played in (48) duringhis seven-year career. 
On Friday, Irsay said the team was discussing the possi­bility of redoing Sanders’ deal 
— something Condon is already preparingfor. 
“I anticipate the same thing you do,” Condon said. “The guy doesn’t play for three consecu­tive years, they’re probably not real excited about that, and they paid the other safety, what $6.5 million, this year. Is there another team in the league that pays both its safeties more than $5 million? The answer is no. So he doesn’t have to tell me anything.” 
Not enough? 

On Tuesday, the Colts parted ways with Huey, who had coached in a franchise-record 304 games as an assistant coach. In 19 seasons with Indy, Huey’s star pupils included names such as Marshall Faulk Caldwell decided to make the and Edgerrin James, and he move that was first reported by mentored five different 1,000-WTHR-TV and later confirmed yard runners. bythe Colts. 

After finishing near the bot-Irsay’s No. 1 priority, of tom of the NFL in rushing the course, remains working out a last three years, coach Jim new dealfor Manning. 

Wednesday, January 19, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NFL 

Steelers happy to host AFC Championship 

Clark said. “But we’d rather have it here with the black-and-gold seats.” 
Clark — like all but one defensive starter — was on the 2008 team that was a No. 2 seed and hosted the title game when the Ravens caused a ruckus each of the past two weeks, singling out a “personal” rivalry against the opposition. First, it was the Indianapolis Colts. Next, it 
was the Patriots. 
Along the way, his players have 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — After dis­patching the Baltimore Ravens, 31-24, in the AFC Divisional round on Saturday, it appeared the Pittsburgh Steelers were headed to New England for a date with the mighty Patriots. 
They should have known better. 
After all, this is becoming old hat in the Steel City, isn’t it? Clearly, they know the drill by now: Get the No. 2 seed in the AFC, watch the No. 1 seed fall flat, then get the AFC Championship game in their backyard. 

In fact — thanks to the New York Jets (13-5) and their 28­21 upset of the Patriots on Sunday — the Steelers (13-4) will get to host the title game for the fourth consecutive time that they’ve been a No. 2 seed. 

Pretty strange, indeed. But, hey, the Steelers aren’t about to complain. 
“It’s better to play at home,” safety Ryan Clark said. “It’s huge.” 
And doesn’t that represent a change of heart in the Steelers locker room? After the win over Baltimore? Sure. Players characteristically were noncommittal about the next opponent. But now that they know it’s New York, and that it’s at Heinz Field? Different story. 
“It’s good because you get to do the same routine,” Clark said. “Going on the road, and having to pack up? Fly? That’s the part of home-field advantage that I don’t think people understand. You’ve got the big locker room, not the small one they put you in when you’re on the road. It’s just little things like that that mean a lot as far as home games go. We’re excited.” 
They should be. 

The Steelers, after all, have played in eight AFC title games over the past 17 years, and all but one has been staged on Pittsburgh’s North Shore. To put that in perspec­tive, no other team can match hosting the AFC Championship seven times over the entire course of the game’s history, dating back to 1970. And five AFC franchises — including, yes, the Jets — have never even played one title game at home. 
“It would have felt like a home game anyway, because (Steelers fans) travel so well,” Bowl, a 27-23 decision over the Arizona Cardinals. 

The No. 2 seed trick surfaced in 1996 and 1998, as well, although the Steelers split those two title games played at Three Rivers Stadium. In fact, hosting doesn’t always translate into success, espe­cially when you consider that Pittsburgh has lost four of six home title games since 1994. 
But, to be clear, playing in Pittsburgh sure beats the alternative, doesn’t it? 
“Heck yeah,” rookie center Maurkice Pouncey said. “That’s awe­some. We’re beat the joined in. 
“It’s better to play at 
Tennessee Titans Cornerback 
home. It’s huge.” 
the week before. Antonio That Pittsburgh Cromartie team went on to Ryan Clark even used an win the Super expletive to 
Steelers safety 
describe Patriots quarterback Tom Brady last week. 
But the Steelers maintain they won’t be dragged into it. 
“We don’t pay attention,” Pouncey said. “It don’t bother us at all. Let them talk.” 
They probably will, espe­cially considering the Jets posted a 22-17 season-saving win over the Steelers at Heinz Field four weeks ago. In the victory, New York ran for 106 yards against the NFL.s best rushing defense en route to 
ending a two-game losing streak. 
That might 
here with our great fans and have another exciting game on  “We just go about our business and prepare the right way to play a  give the road team a little leverage in the war of  
Sunday.” This  is  the  football game.”  words week.  this  
11th time the Steelers will host  Maurkice Pouncey  But again, that’s all well  
a  conference  Steelers center  and good to  
championship  the Steelers.  
game. It’s also  Sunday is all  
the  15th  they  that matters  
will play in. Both  to them.  

are league records. But you “You know, they had story­won’t hear this team bragging lines in the other places,” about that this week. Clark said, referring to the 
“We just go about our busi-Jets’ first two opponents. “We ness and prepare the right don’t. There’s just not good way to play a football game,” storylines between us. Pouncey said. “We don’t do a “The only storyline we have lot of talking.” is six (Lombardi) trophies. 
Their opponent? Well, they And we’re trying to get anoth­take a different approach. er one. That’s all we’re work-
Jets coach Rex Ryan has ing towards.” 
page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, January 19, 2011 
Guentzel 
continued from page 24 
kind of unspeakable that we alreadyhave12thisyear.” 
SophomoreNickLarsondoubled Notre Dame’s lead at 18:45 of the final period. Larson got the puck onhisstickattherightsideofthe Alaska goalmouth and patiently outwaited Greenham before put­ting the puck in the back of the net. 
At that point, it looked like Johnson was in line for this first shutoutoftheseason. 
“I mean I know how much time’s on [the scoreboard],” Johnson said “I wouldn’t say I’m counting down the seconds becausethat’showitcangetreally long.” 
With an extra attacker on the ice, Alaska’s Aaron Gens took a feedfrombehindthenetandfloat­ed the puck over Johnson. The Nanooks were unable to tie the game,though,andtheIrishskated off the ice with their ninth home win of the season. Guentzel said the tough win would prepare the team well as they ready for the stretchrun. 
“Intheplayoffs,itdoesn’tmatter how as long as you get it,” Guentzelsaid.“We’reusedtoscor­ing a lot of goals, but when you can win agame 2-1, it’s also alot ofconfidencedownthestretch.” 

Inthesecondgame,though,the Nanooksjumpedouttoa2-0first­period lead behind goals from Scott Enders and Jarret Greenberg. The secondgoal came on the power play after the Irish had taken a bench minor for too manymenontheice—thefirstof two times that would happen on thenight.Jacksonsaidthemental lapseswereunacceptable,butthat healsowouldshouldertheblame. 
“Ihonestlydon’tthinkthatIhad these guys prepared to play this team,” he said. “I’ll take responsi­bility for it. I think that they [Alaska] put a lot more pressure and played a lot more physical thanIpreparedthemfor.” 
Freshman Mike Voran cut the lead to 2-1 at 8:56 of the second period when he corralled a rebound at the left edge of the crease,settledthepuck,andcoolly slid it past Greenham for his fourthgoaloftheseason. 
The Nanooks extended their lead to 3-1 earlyin the thirdperi­odwithagoalfromCarloFinucci. 
Notre Dame went without a power play on the night until 
14:41 of the final stanza when Alaska’sJoeSovawasgivenafive­minutemajorandagamemiscon­duct for contact to the head. Instead of the Irish taking advan­tage of the man advantage, though, it was the Nanooks who scored a shorthanded goal one minuteintothepenalty. 
The 4-1deficit was too much to overcome, and the Irish were forced to settle with a split in the series. 
“Wehavetomoveon,butwe’ve got to get better,” Jackson said. “This team has shown signs of being extremely good, but we’ve alsoshown signs ofweakness and we’vegottogetbetter.” 
The Irish still sit in first place in the CCHA standings, one point ahead of rival Michigan, though the Wolverines have a game in hand on Notre Dame. The Irish return to action next weekend with a pair of games against Ohio StateinColumbus,Ohio. 
Note: 

uSenior left wing Calle Ridderwall missed both games withalower bodyinjury. Tuesday, Jackson said Ridderwall’s status for this weekend’s games was unclear and his status was “day­to-day.” 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 


Diggins 
continued from page 24 
took over the game in the first half anddidn’ttrytodotoomuchinthe secondhalf.” 
Diggins hit a three-pointer at the 
12:23 mark to give the Irish their largestleadofthefirsthalfat23-10. The Hoyas were unable to cut the deficit to less than 10 and entered halftimetrailing45-33.Muchofthe Irish success was due to Diggins’ leadership, as she has evolved into themostvocalleaderontheteam. 

“Wehadsomanyseniorslastyear thattheydidmostofthecommuni­cating,” she said. “This year I do a lotmoretalking.” 
Notre Dame was able to jump aheadbysuchalargemargindueto itssuffocatingdefenseandaseason­best performance from behind the arc, sinking eight of 14 attempts. SeniorguardBrittanyMallorymade threelong-rangebasketstoleadthe Irish.Shewasclearedtoplayshortly before tip-off following a collision SaturdayagainstPittsburgh. 
An 8-0 run early in the second half extended the Irish lead to 19 points. The run started when Georgetown junior forward Adria Crawford fouled Diggins and was assessed a technical foul due to a scuffle following the play. Diggins sunkbothtechnicalfreethrows. 
NotreDameeliminatedanydoubt ofthe outcome after a7-0 run that gave them a 76-53 advantage with 5:18toplay.Theyneverlookedback and were able to avenge last sea­son’sdisappointinglosstotheHoyas. 
The team has won 11 of 12 and McGrawsaidsheexpectedtheteam tocontinuetoimproveastheseason progresses. 
“Ithinkwe’regrowing,”shesaid. “We’re getting better every game and doing some good things every game,butwecanstillgetbetter.” 
It was the largest victory over a ranked opponent for the Irish since 2004, when they defeated Miami (Fla.)by35. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


Wednesday, January 19, 2011 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, January 19, 2011 

won hands down. Finishing second will motivate her for 
HomeAward 
next year – she’s in the dri­ver’s seat.” 
continued from page 24 
continued from page 24 

Henderson was not the dedication. only Irish player to be recog­
at unranked Marquette and St. “It’s great for the staff,” he nized for her success. All­
John’s, where they turned the said. “It’s a reflection of a lot American senior 
ball over a combined 32 times of people, not just me. It’s a forward/defender Lauren 
and struggled to keep up with great award for us collec-Fowlkes and senior forward 
their opponents’ athleticism. tively.” Rose Augustin were selected 
Brey, meanwhile, expects the Junior All-American for-in the 2011 Women’s 
deep Bearcats (16-2, 3-2 Big ward Melissa Henderson Professional Soccer (WPS) 
East) to utilize their speed and also collected hardware in Draft. Fowlkes was selected 
athleticism to press the Irish, addition to her Final Four in the first round at fifth 
which has been a successful Offensive MVP award. overall by the Philadelphia 
defensive game plan against his Henderson won the Honda Independence, while 
squad recently. Sports Award for women’s Augustin was selected in the 
“I am impressed with soccer, a national player-of-third round at 13th overall 
[Cincinnati’s] defensive effort the-year award that also by the Western New York 
and with the vibe they have makes her one of 12 finalists Flash. Fowlkes’ pick match-
about that group,” Brey said. for the year-end Honda-es the highest a Notre Dame 
“But when we do a good job of Broderick cup, awarded player has been selected in 
keeping the speed and athleti­annually to the Collegiate the WPS draft. 
cism of our league from getting Woman Athlete of the Year. “I’m really proud of both,” 
to us and getting into our lane “I’m glad to see her win Waldrum said. “That’s a 
we have a pretty good chance the Honda,” Waldrum said. pretty good representation 
[of winning].” Despite her triumph over of where our program 
The Bearcats are led by jun-field goals in the entire first half to rally his teammates in what Stanford senior forward stands.” 
ior guard Dion Dixon, who in their 72-54 loss at Madison is considered the toughest con-Christen Press in the nation-With many professional 
averages 12.8 points per game Square Garden to St. John’s, in ference in all of college basket­al championship game, teams set to lose some of 
and scored 18 in a 67-52 loss at which the Irish hit only three of ball. Henderson finished second their best players to World 
No. 3 Syracuse Saturday. 20 three-point attempts. But “We have to bounce back, and to Press in balloting for the Cup duty, there has been a 
Cincinnati trailed by only four senior guard Ben Hansbrough we will,” Hansbrough said. Hermann Trophy, the pre-renewed interest in new 
at halftime but made only 2 of expects that to change with a “You have to understand this mier player-of-the-year draft picks, and Waldrum 
their first 20 shots of the second change of scenery for the Irish, league. We went on the road award in women’s soccer. believes that his program 
half to cripple any chances of who are 11-0 at home this sea-and lost two tough road games, The award, however, distrib-has prepared its graduates 
an upset victory. In addition, the son. but this league is all about utes ballots before the Final for success. 
Bearcats may be without their “There’s a comfort zone on bouncing back. Last season we Four weekend, indicating “They’re going to make 
key big man, junior forward your home court,” Hansbrough had a losing record in the Big that some voters may have really good pros,” Waldrum 
Yancy Gates, who went down said. “These are your rims that East, and then we came back cast their ballots before wit-said. “Every team was very 
with an ankle injury Saturday. you’re used to practicing on and won six in a row and fin­nessing Henderson’s domi-excited about them. We’ve 
Gates averages 11.4 points per and they’re your balls that ished off the season 10-8, so I nating Final Four perform-laid the groundwork for 
game and 6.7 rebounds per you’re used to shooting with. I think perseverance is a big fac­ance. them.” 
game and was instrumental to think everyone is just amped up tor in the Big East.” “The national champi-With the success of his 
the Bearcats season-opening to go at home. Just having the Notre Dame hopes to get back onship is the biggest test to squad in the past year, it 
15-game winning streak, ended home crowd with you helps you on the winning side of things me, but a lot of coaches seems that the rest of the 
by last week’s 72-61 loss at No. out.” against Cincinnati tonight at 7 probably voted early,” soccer community agrees. 
7 Villanova. But with the longest losing p.m. at the Purcell Pavilion. Waldrum said. “Had nobody 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame has streak of the year for the Irish, voted until after the Final Contact Allan Joseph at 
gone through a shooting slump the veteran sharpshooter is Contact Andrew Gastelum at Four, [Melissa] would have ajoseph2@nd.edu 
of its own, making only four relying on last year’s experience agastel1@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  36  
37  38  39  
40  41  42  
43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  50  51  52  
53  54  55  
56  57  58  59  
60  61  62  
63  64  65  

Wednesday, January 19, 2011 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 

Across 29“___ geht's?” 1 Friends and (German “How neighbors are you?”) 5Bend one's 30___ pro nobis 
elbow, e.g. 31Chief heckler? 9 Cornered 36Skewer 14Start of an 37Place for a 
incantation Dumpster
15Wash up 38Juan's “what” 16“On the Beach” 39Lavender, for author 
one 

17Hard-boiled 40Pesky arachnid crime genre 
41Skydiver's 

18Aesir ruler amended plans? 19Perfect Sleeper 
43Troop­
maker 

entertaining grp. 20Athlete who has 
44Cara ___ (Italian
pigged out on 
term of 
snacks at a bar? 
endearment)23Interstate­
45Performer 
championing 
yukking it up 
prez 

46Friend from afar 
24Strippers'tips, 
48Tickled 

often 25Explosive of old 50Indy letters 28Special 53Insulation from treatment, for jokes? short 56Rodeo ride 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


58Astronomy's ___ cloud 
59Brand for woofers, but nottweeters? 
60Cultural prefix 61Purple shade 62Sound from a 
steeple 63Core belief 64Critic's unit 65Primordial stuff 
Down 
1 Japanese writingsystem 2 Old Apple laptop 3 Brief moment 4 “Listen!,” old-style 5 Walk with jerkymotions 6 Chili server 7 Escapees fromPandora's box 8 Alien: Prefix 9 Take on 10Angle symbol, intrigonometry 11 Explode like a puffball12“Boston Legal”fig.13Truly, in theBible 21Unwise undertaking
22Brand once advertised with the jingle “Wewear short shorts …” 
26Circular gasket27Barista's offering28Back into a 
corner 29Boo-hoo 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

WILL SHORTZ 
Puzzle by John Lampkin 
31Copier 41Leave high and 50Fifth-century malfunction dry canonized pope 
32Beethoven 42Say “Hey, batter 51Birthstone for dedicatee batter batter” many Scorpios 33“Rocket Man” 
and such 52Working stiff rocker 
44Mr. Met, for one

34Pastel hue 54The old man 47Tubular pasta 
35Scat syllable 55Banjo accessory 36Bernie Madoff's 
48Mosaic artist's 
56Double orhedge fund, e.g. material nothing, e.g. 

39Parasol's 49Spanish poet offering García ___ 57Tpke., e.g. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

PLEASANDVILLE 

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 


JEFF KNUREK
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
UPTYT  

 
 
 
 
 

©2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
PRAAK  

 
 
 
 
 

MESSTY  

 
 
 
 
 
 

NEW BIBLE Jumble Books Go To: http://www.tyndale.com/jumble/ 


ATTORE  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Answer: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: APRON COACH GENTRY JURIST Yesterday’s 
Answer: When the shoppers felt the model’s gown,the designer said it was — “TOUCHING” 
 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Wednesday, January 19, 2011 page 24 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish return to Purcell to face Cincinnati 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Returning to campus has never felt better for the No. 16 Irish, who have dropped their last two Big East road games by double digits after a promis­ing start to conference play. 
Notre Dame (14-4, 3-3 Big East) will return to Purcell Pavilion to face conference rival No. 25 Cincinnati while trying to remain undefeated at home this season. 
“We are simply trying to get back home and win against a good team that you can’t look past,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “We need to be better with the ball. I was disappoint­ed with our handling of the ball [in last week’s road losses], which made it hard to get into any offensive rhythm.” 
The Irish are riding a two-game losing streak after losing 
see HOME/page 22 

Coming home 

DAN JACOBS/The Observer Senior guard Ben Hansbrough drives past Connecticut guard Kemba Walker in the Irish’s 73-70 win on Jan. 4. Hansbrough and the Irish will return home to face Cincinnati on Wednesday night. 
WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Henderson runner-up for trophy 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 

First, Notre Dame earned the national championship. Now, the Irish are collecting accolades on the awards cir­cuit. Irish coach Randy Waldrum won the NSCAA/Mondo National Coach of the Year award for the first time in his career after guid­ing the Irish to the pinnacle of the sport following a shocking upset in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament. 
“I’m really proud of that one,” Waldrum said. “This is the first time I’ve won it from the coaches’ association, so it really meant a lot. This one’s the big one.” 
Despite his personal tri­umph, Waldrum views the award as a recognition of his entire staff’s hard work and 
see AWARD/page 22 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Record three senior players selected in MLS SuperDraft 
of the three-round draft for Dame, notching four goals and the 39th overall pick after a matches for the Irish and
Observer Staff Report 

senior collegiate players or an assist while powering the 2010 campaign that saw him notch two shutouts while tend-
Three Notre Dame men’s players who have otherwise Irish midfield. post career-highs in goals (12) ing the net through Big East soccer players were selected in been signed by MLS. Senior Duckett joined Brovsky in and assists (4) for Notre Dame and NCAA tournament play. He Major League Soccer’s (MLS) goalkeeper Phillip Tuttle was Vancouver when he was while playing as the sole for-joins 2009 Notre Dame gradu­2011 SuperDraft with an addi-selected in the follow-up sup-selected 18 picks later with the ward in coach Bobby Clark’s ate Justin Morrow on the tional Irish player being select-plemental draft held Jan. 18. 37th overall selection. Duckett offensive formation. Earthquakes. ed in the league’s supplemen-Brovsky was the first Irish started 40 of 42 matches at Tuttle joins the San Jose The three players selected in taldraft. player taken after being right back over the course of Earthquakes after being the official SuperDraft order 
The draft was held Jan. 13 in tabbed with the 19th overall the past two seasons for Notre selected 33rd overall in the ties a program record for Baltimore. pick by the expansion Dame as part of a defense that supplemental draft. Tuttle suf-Notre Dame that was posted in 
Midfielder Jeb Brovsky, Vancouver Whitecaps FC. posted 14 shutouts in that fered an injury while working 2005, and brings Bobby Clark’s defender Bilal Duckett and for-Brovsky overcame an early-time. out with the California-based total of players selected by ward Steven Perry, all seniors, season injury in 2010 to start Perry was picked up by the club in the summer, but MLS during his decade at were selected over the course all twenty matches for Notre New England Revolution with returned in time to start 13 Notre Dame to 18. 
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

NotreDamepowersbyHoyas 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
Georgetown sophomore guard Sugar Rodgers mayhave narrowly beaten out Irish sophomore guard Skylar Diggins for last year’s Big EastRookieoftheYearhonors,but it was the Irish guard who got the bestofherGeorgetowncounterpart Tuesday night in an 80-58 victory overtheHoyas. 
The sophomore jumpstarted the Irishoffensewitheightpointsinthe firstfour minutes ofthe game. She madealayupandwasfouledonthe first play of the contest. She added the free throw to give Notre Dame (16-4, 5-1 Big East) an early 3-0 advantage over Georgetown (14-5, 2-3BigEast). 
“SkylarwasSkylartonight,”Irish coach Muffett McGraw said. “She 
see DIGGINS/page 20 


HOCKEY 

Squad splits weekend series with Nanooks 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 

NotreDamereturnedtoaction at the Joyce Center this week­end, splitting a two-game series withAlaska. 
Playing in their first home game since Dec. 29, the Irish (15-8-3, 12-5-1-1 CCHA) defeat­ed the Nanooks (10-8-4, 7-7-4-2 CCHA) 2-1 Friday night before falling 4-1 in the rematch Saturday. 
Sophomore goaltender Mike Johnson was the star of Friday night’s win, stopping 34 of 35 Alaska shots and holding the Nanooks scoreless for the first 59:37ofthegame. 
“It’s unfortunate that he didn’t get the shutout because I thought he deserved it,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “He madethedifferencetonight.” 
TheIrishgotontheboardfirst with a shorthanded goal from freshmanAndersLee.Onatwo­on-one break with senior line-mate Ryan Guentzel, Lee took a nice feed in the high slot and fired a writer that beat Alaska goalie ScottGreenham stick side at 15:16 of the second period. TheshorthandedgoalwasNotre Dame’s CCHA-leading 12th of theseason. 
“We’ve been fortunate enough toscoresomecrazyshorthanded goals,” Guentzel said. “We obvi­ously can’t complain, but it’s 
see GUENTZEL/page 20 






