
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Alum organizes Vatican site 
By MARIELLE HAMPE 
News Writer 
As communication rapidly evolves in today’s global soci­ety, one Notre Dame alumnus is helping the Vatican incor­porate new media into its mis­sion. 
Thaddeus “TJ” Jones, a 1989 graduate of Notre Dame, was present when Pope Benedict XVI officially launched the Vat­ican’s website, news.va.com, and wrote the first papal tweet on the eve of the feast day of Saints Peter and Paul. 
News.va is an aggregator website that pulls together content from all of the differ­ent Vatican news sources into a single web page. 
Jones is the news.va project coordinator and an official at the Pontifical Council for Social Communications. 
“If you want to get your word out, you have to look at how best to do it,” Jones said. “We wanted to engage with more social media in the way other organizations do already and be present in the dialogue of new forms of communication.” 
Jones said 35,000 people be­came followers of the news.va 
site within the first hour af­ter Pope Benedict XVI’s tweet, which read, “Dear Friends, I just launched news.va. Praised be our Lord Jesus Christ! With my prayers and blessings, Benedictus XVI.” 
The way the world communi­cates has evolved and changed over the years, Jones said, and the Vatican strives to keep up with new forms of communica­tion. 
“The Vatican has an impor­tant message, and we have a duty to improve the way we get 


see VATICAN/page 5 


Courtesy of Thaddeus Jones 

Notre Dame alumnus Thaddeus Jones, far-left, watches as Pope Benedict XVI issues the first Papal tweet on an iPad. 

STUDENTS BATTLE ON SOUTH QUAD 

ND students cheer Irish on to victory 


By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Junior Pat Vinett, who trans­ferred to Notre Dame from Wake Forest, returned to Win­ston-Salem, N.C. for Saturday’s game hoping for an Irish vic­tory. 
Vinett said he was cautiously optimistic about Notre Dame’s chances, even more so than many of the Wake Forest fans he spoke to. 
“I know talking to kids down there, they were expecting to lose by like 40. I thought it was going to be pretty close, that we were going to underestimate the ACC,” Vinett said. “I knew we’d win, but I thought it’d be difficult.” 
Despite the Demon Deacons’ stadium being less than half the size of Notre Dame’s, Vinett said the level of excitement was impressive. 
“I ended up in the student sec­tion, so I don’t know about gen­eral admission, but compared to whenever I’ve been there before, it was really loud,” he said. “They had fireworks going when they scored, it was pretty good considering the size of the stadium. It was packed.” 
While it was a farther trip from South Bend than Purdue or Michigan, Vinett said the Notre Dame turnout was sur­prisingly large. 
“There were a ton of ND peo­ple,” he said. “I’m not going to say there were more ND people [than Wake Forest fans], but I’d say it was pretty even cheering.” 
Despite having a friend on the Wake Forest team, Vinett 


see FOOTBALL/page 6 

Soccer teams ‘Play for Peace’ 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
South Bend community members from every inhab­ited continent gathered with Notre Dame students Satur­day to participate in a soccer tournament to raise aware­ness for peace and diversity. 
Playing for Peace spon­sored Saturday’s tourna­ment, which was organized into a “miniature World Cup” format. 
Some teams, like team Rwanda, were comprised of 
see PLAY/page 6 


Asian Allure honors alumni in performance 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
This year’s Asian Allure, called “Timeless,” transported audiences back in time to ex­plore the history of the Asian student community at Notre Dame. 
The Asian Allure perfor­mances, sponsored by the Asian American Association, took place Friday and Saturday in Washington Hall. 
Junior Michael Mercurio, di­rector of Asian Allure, said the show adhered to its “Timeless” theme by telling the stories of Notre Dame alumni through traditional dances and skits. 
“We would not be the Asian community we are today if not for the timeless stories of all the students that came before us,” he said. 
Mercurio said Asian Allure is an important event for the Asian student community be 
see ALLURE/page 5 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Fall Festival page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Macklemore and Ryan Lewis perform at Legends page 10 u Women’s soccer loses to Louisville page 20 u Irish Insider 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW DID YOU SPEND YOUR EXTRA HOUR OF DAYLIGHT? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Sara Felsenstein Kelsey Manning Nicole Toczauer Jack Hefferon Christian Myers Mike Monaco Graphics Scene Dan Azic Ankur Chawla Photo Viewpoint Suzanna Pratt Meghan Thomassen  

Hannah Yu  Joseph  Jane Park  Faith Mayfield  Albany Zweber- 
VanderZee  Langer  
sophomore  senior  junior  freshman  sophomore  
Pasquerilla West  Keough  Pasquerilla West  Farley  Farley  
“I was singing  “I was on the  “Riding my cool  “Watching ‘V for  “Sleeping!”  
Kumbaya  silent retreat.”  new scooter ...  Vendetta.’”  
around a  everywhere!”  
bonfire.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Man forced to pay former fiancee for cancelled wedding 
RIO DE JANEIRO — A court has ordered a Brazil­ian man to pay $6,500 for saying “I don’t” to his for­mer fiancee. 
Rio de Janeiro state Judge Benedicto Abicair said that Marcelo de Aze­vedo Fernandes must pay for “moral and material” damages to Cristiane Costa de Andrade. The ruling was posted Friday on the court’s website. 
The couple was to have been married in Septem­ber of 2007, but Fernandes called it off. 
The judge said in his rul­ing that Andrade’s “suffer­ing, anguish and humilia­tion cannot be ignored.” 
The fine is supposed to pay for the jilted woman’s wedding costs and visits to a psychologist. 

Andrade’s lawyer, Vivi­ane Sines del Giudice, said neither she nor her client would make any immedi­ate comment regarding the case. Calls to Fernandes’ attorney, Fabiano Ayupp Magalhaes, went unan­swered. 
The O Estado de S. Paulo newspaper reported there have been at least two simi­lar cases since 2004. 
Nebraska man pays off his mother’s old parking ticket 
YORK, Neb. — A parking ticket issued 57 years ago in southeast Nebraska has finally been paid off. The fine: a dime. 
York Police Chief Don Klug says a man walked into the station Tuesday with the ticket and payment 
— mounted and framed. Klug tells the York News-Times that the man said he found the ticket among his mother’s things and wanted to settle the debt. 
The ticket was issued on July 13, 1954, to a vehicle licensed in Oklahoma. The man told Klug that he be­lieved his mother had been visiting York at the time and probably lost track of the ci­tation. 
Klug says he plans to hang the framed ticket on the wall of his office in York, about 50 miles west of Lin­coln. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
There will be a free Ref-Works workshop from 1:30 to 3 p.m. today in Room G001 of the Information Technology Center. Partici­pants will learn to use Re­fWorks to format, manage and track citations. 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies is spon­soring a panel discussion titled, “Crisis of the Euro,” in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium from 4:30 to 6 
p.m. today. 
The Center for Social Con­cerns will host an infor­mation session about the Poverty Studies Interdis­ciplinary  Minor in Room B034 of Geddes Hall from 
5:15 p.m. to 6:15 p.m. to­night. Pizza will be provid­ed. 
The Haiti Program and the Haiti Working Group are sponsoring a lecture ti­tled, “Run From the Earth­quake: Fall Into the Abyss: A Léogane Paradox,” in Room 104 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies from 6 to 7:30 p.m. tonight. 
The Notre Dame Center for Liturgy is sponsoring a lecture titled, “Adoration of the Eucharist Today,” in the Andrews Auditorium of Geddes Hall from 7 to 8 
p.m. tonight. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
The men’s basketball team will play an exhibi­tion game against Stonehill College tonight from 7:30 to 
9:30 p.m. in the Purcell Pa­villion. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH 53 LOW 50 

HIGH 69 LOW 52 
HIGH 54 LOW 33 

HIGH 40 LOW 32 
HIGH 50 LOW 34 

LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 
CORRECTIONS 

The article “Community celebrates Día de los Muertos” in the Nov. 2 edition of The Observer 
incorrectly identified who designed the ofrendas 
present at the Día de los Muertos celebration. The 
ofrenda with the ladders was designed by Ana Teresa Fernandez. The other, decorated with sugar skulls and flowers, was created by Kellogg Institute for International Studies faculty and staff members. The Observer regrets this error. 










SMC seniors bond with fathers 


By KIMBERLY WESTPHAL 
News Writer 
Seniors at Saint Mary’s Col­lege had the chance to spend some quality time with their fathers at the annual Senior Dads Weekend. 
A range of events including a Mass, game watch and si­lent auction were planned for the weekend. 
Noelle Radko, senior class vice president, said the first event of the weekend took place Friday night in Spes Unica Hall. 
“We created a beer garden in Spes with a silent auction and we … invited our profes­sors,” she said. “This is our senior year and our profes­sors know us pretty well by now, so we wanted to include them in our evening.” 
High tables were set up on the first and second floors of Spes Unica and appetizers and beer were available for the attendees. Fathers and daughters were presented with matching beer glasses adorned with the Saint Mary’s College logo. 

The silent auction con­tained different baskets to be bid on, including packages from Brothers Bar & Grill and Club Fever. 
On Saturday, there was a game watch at the College Football Hall of Fame, com­plete with drinks and a buf­fet. 
Senior Katelynd Park said she was excited to watch the Notre Dame vs. Wake Forest game with her father. 
“I think that this weekend is a fun opportunity to spend ‘Daddy-Daughter’ time be­fore college ends,” she said. “You’re always told that you’re ‘daddy’s little girl,’ so it’s nice to have this time with them.” 
Senior Katelyn Tondo-Steele said she also enjoyed spend­ing time with all the dads. 
“This day has been great,” Tondo-Steele said. “It was nice to see the girls’ dads yes­terday at the beer garden and go out last night, and these games are fun to play with our dads.” 
On Sunday, a Mass was held at the Church of Loretto. 
Maggie DePaola, senior 
class  president,  said  the  
entire  weekend  went  very  
smoothly.  

“The turn out for the week­end was great, which made us glad,” DePaolo said. “My dad had fun. It was a success.” 
Pat Reardon, father of se­nior Megan Reardon, said he was impressed with the friendships his daughter has made at Saint Mary’s. 
“It’s been a brutally humble experience seeing all of you girls as seniors,” Reardon said. “Megan, as well as you all, has acclimated herself well, and it’s sad that it’s all ending. It’s just one more way that Saint Mary’s shows how close you all are and how the college values that closeness.” 
Contact Kimberly westphal at kwestp01@saintmarys.edu 

ND students and local children celebrate fall 



By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Students from Notre Dame and families from the South Bend community celebrated autumn together at Sunday’s Fall Festival in the LaFortune Student Center Ballroom. 
Senior Erika Hansen, student government’s Community Rela­tions chair, said the festival was a chance to invite children and their parents who live in South Bend to Notre Dame’s campus. 
“The purpose I think first and foremost is to have kids come in, celebrate fall, have fun, but also, as the Community Rela­tions Committee, we’ve heard in the past that oftentimes commu­nity members don’t feel invited to Notre Dame’s campus,” Hansen said. “We hope this is a day for people to come and visit and en­joy campus and enjoy interacting with the students.” 
At the festival, student volun­teers helped local children make paper turkeys, color, decorate cookies and play games. About 40 children attended, Hansen said. 
Sophomore Cal Belden, a vol­unteer at the Fall Festival, said the children enjoyed the event. 
“It seems like the kids [had] a good time,” Belden said. “I defi­nitely think all the activities are catered for them, which is nice.” 
Mishawaka resident Claire Shely said she appreciated the event, but thought more people would have attended if it had been held outside and advertised more extensively. 
“I recognize a lot of people here from ECDC [Early Childhood De­velopmental Center on campus], so I don’t know how much of the community it actually brought in,” Shely said. 
Still, engagement between the University and the greater South Bend community has improved in recent years, she said. 
“I think Eddy Street Commons has brought a lot of the commu­nity and Notre Dame together, so I think things have already become better since that’s been developed,” Shely said. 
Sophomore Iona Hughan, a volunteer, said to further con­nect with the South Bend com­munity, the University should utilize local organizations like the Robinson Community Learn­ing Center. 
“They have all the contacts, so if we publicize through them, we can make that connection,” Hughan said. 
South Bend resident David Hip­skind said members of the Notre Dame and South Bend communi­ties need to converse more about how to build a stronger commu­nity. 
“It would be great for the lead­ers of the South Bend community to get together with some of the developing leaders that study at the University to talk about what makes a community function well in this time,” Hipskind said. 
Belden said he thinks the rela­tionship between the University and the South Bend community could still improve. 
“I just think it’s difficult be­cause, as a student, I’m worried about getting my homework done and hanging out with my friends and the other things I’m involved in, so that doesn’t leave a lot of time to reach out to the sur­rounding community,” he said. “It’s hard to make it a priority. It definitely is important.” 
Hansen said she was pleased with the turnout at the Fall Fes­tival. 
“I think it was the right amount of kids,” she said. “No one had to wait for anything. I think it’s kind of a fun time, too, because we don’t get to hang out with kids very much.” 
But she said she would like to advertise the event more in the future. 
“I really meant to advertise to different faculty [and] especially the Graduate Student Union, but I think we had a good turnout re­gardless,” Hansen said. 
Student government plans to hold a similar, Christmas-themed event in early December, Hansen said. 
“This event will be a collabo­ration of Notre Dame student government and student govern­ments from other campuses in the area, including [Indiana Uni­versity South Bend] and Ivy Tech [Community College of Indiana], and we’re really looking forward to it,” she said. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 

Club holds climbing competition 


By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame Climbing Club held Notre Dame’s first boulder­ing competition in the Rockne Memorial Gym on Sunday. 
Sophomore Andrea Rabassa, club secretary, said the event was created to provide an opportunity for the growing number of climb­ers at Notre Dame to compete. 
The club began in 1997 with only a few members, but has grown exponentially in the past three years, Rabassa said. With 71 paying members, regulars at the climbing wall usually work on bouldering. 
“Bouldering is when you climb without a rope, which can be hard depending on what you’re climbing,” she said. “We needed a competition to give these people a chance to show their skills.” 
The Bouldering Competition was split into six divisions: nov­ice, beginner female, beginner male, intermediate male, inter­mediate female and advanced. 
“We were trying to cater to those who never climbed before as well as to more advanced climbers,” Rabassa said. “We wanted to reach everyone at Notre Dame, no matter what their experience level.” 
Each participant had a half hour time slot scheduled be­tween 10:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. on Sunday. During their time slot, participants climbed pre-made routes designed by the club. 
“We set up a bunch of routes for this weekend, ranging from very easy to difficult,” Rabassa said. “It was a great opportunity to change up the wall and get people to try new routes.” 
Each route was set for a differ­ent level and had points attribut­ed to it accordingly. Competitors recorded the top three most dif­ficult routes they climbed within the half hour on a scorecard. 
“We added up the points and then the person with the most for each division won a pretty sweet climbing prize,” Rabassa said. 
Winners of the novice and be­ginner divisions received a chalk bag and chalk. Winners of the intermediate divisions received toothbrushes in addition to the chalk bags. The advanced divi­sion winner received a $20 gift card for rock climbing gear. 
“Chalk is very handy when you start climbing because you use it to dry your hands. It makes it a lot easier,” Rabassa said. “Tooth­brushes are used for cleaning out holds so you can get a better grip.” 
Senior Ben Rollin, club presi­dent, said the climbing club might hold a similar competition in the spring. Other club events include three climbing trips to the Red River Gorge in Kentucky each semester. 
“Based on feedback from climbers, everyone seems to be having a lot of fun,” Rollin said. “Anyone is welcome to join.” 
In addition the competition and trips, the club also provides a so­cial aspect for its climbers, Rollin said. 
“Something about climbing that’s special is that you put your life in the hands of people you don’t always know well at first,” he said. “But they’re all extremely supportive, and you come to know them very well.” 
Contact Nicole toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 

SMC students run to raise cancer awareness 
By MONA RODRIGUEZ 
News Writer 
Stand Up To Cancer, a new club at Saint Mary’s College, kicked off the year Saturday with a 3K Halloween Fun Run. 
More than 20 runners sport­ing Halloween costumes par­ticipated in the Saturday morn­ing run that looped through campus. 
Senior Laura L’Abbe ran the race with her father. 
“My dad was here for Senior Dad’s Weekend and we just found out my dad’s uncle has esophageal cancer, so the run actually came at a good time,” L’Abbe said. “My dad actually won the race and we got a free HotBox pizza.” 
L’Abbe, who dressed up as a ballerina and ran in pinks tights, said she had a lot of fun running in costume. 
“It was a great time and we are really glad we participat­ed,” she said. “Thanks to ev­eryone who put the race on.” 
Junior Devon Graham, presi­dent of Stand Up To Cancer at Saint Mary’s, was happy with the turnout and enthusiasm people showed. 
“This was our first event ever as a club and we raised close to $100, which I think is a great start for our kickoff event,” Graham said. 
She said all proceeds went to Stand Up To Cancer. 
“What’s great about this or­ganization is 100 percent of donations [go] to cancer re­search,” Graham said. 
Graham said she had known about the national organi­zation for a few years and thought it would be a great club to bring to campus since so many people are affected by cancer. 



“Everyone knows someone who has been affected by can­cer,” she said. “It’s something that hits everyone.” 
Stand Up To Cancer supports cancer research as a whole and promotes cancer aware­ness. 
“It’s not only about funding breast cancer research, but also research of other can­cers that affect people too,” Graham said. “What’s differ­ent and great about Stand Up To Cancer is that they work together with scientists in re­search rather than in competi­tion,” Graham said. 
Junior Brittani Hradsky, vice president of Stand Up To Can­cer at Saint Mary’s, agreed. 
“It’s also about bringing awareness of all different can­cers and getting involved,” she said. 
Saint Mary’s College is one of the first schools to have Stand Up To Cancer as an official col­lege club, Graham said. 
“As a club we are planning to volunteer in the chemother­apy room at Memorial Hospital and we’re working on a Cancer Awareness Week,” she said. 
The club is also open to Notre Dame students and anyone in­terested is encouraged to email dgraha01@saintmarys.edu 
Contact Mona Rodriguez at mrodri01@saintmarys.edu 



Allure 
continued from page 1 
cause it unifies all students of Asian descent. 
“It’s the one time of the year when all the Asian clubs get together to showcase our cul­ture,” he said. “It’s the one time to really build community.” 
To collect the “timeless” sto­ries used in this year’s show, Mercurio said this summer nine students interviewed alumni from all over the world about their experiences as Asian stu­dents at Notre Dame. 
“We told the alums [this year’s show] was a tribute to them, and they really found that touching,” Mercurio said. 
For the weekend’s perfor­mances, alumni’s narratives were weaved into a plot similar to that of “The Hangover.” Stu­dents with fuzzy memories of what happened the night before find a time machine to travel back to the previous night, but they accidentally journey back to 1905 when the first Asian student enrolled at Notre Dame. 
From there, the students keep traveling forward through time, watching the Asian stu­dent community grow on cam­pus. 
Within the show, each Asian student club sponsored a par­ticular act. These individual acts either showcased tradi­tional dance or music, or pre­sented a more modern twist, Mercurio said. 


“The Philippine American Student Organization has a tra­ditional dance called tinikling where they have bamboo sticks and they clap them together, except they do it to hip hop dancing,” he said. 
Sophomore Denver Lobo participated in the Indian As­sociation of Notre Dame’s per­formance of the traditional bhangra dance. 
“It’s a lot of jumping around, a lot of energy,” Lobo said. “It’s a very quick dance. There’s a lot of leg movement and hand movement in it.” 
Mercurio said this year’s Asian Allure also included an exhibit on the history of Asian Americans that was on display in Washington Hall. 
“It’s an educational thing,” he said. “We have quotes there, life advice and inspirational quotes from the alums.” 
Lobo said being a part of Asian Allure allowed him to connect with other students of similar cultural backgrounds. 
“I’ve gained a lot of friends from doing Asian Allure,” he said. 
Mercurio said he received positive reactions about this year’s show, especially from alumni. 
“I got more than a few people who said, ‘This was the best Asian Allure I’ve ever seen,’” he 



Vatican 
continued from page 1 
this message out,” he said. 
He said the Catholic Church is a community of believers that spans the globe. 
“News.va is meant to get the news out about the Pope to this said. “Even alumni who have seen six or seven Asian Al­lures.” 
The success of the show is due to all the hard work and time the students spent on the show for the past few months, Mercurio said. 
“Everyone who was involved 
universal church. Our idea was to bring news about the Pope to one portal to get information to the people,” he said. 
News.va brings together content from a variety of Vati­can news sources, includ­ing the Vatican newspaper, L’Osservatore Romano, Vatican Radio, Vatican Television, Vati­can Information Service, Fides Missionary News and the offi­cial Vatican website. 
The site is available in Eng­lish, Italian and Spanish and French. The main page also includes links to Twitter, Face­book, YouTube and Flickr pag­es. 
“The look of the website is inviting and not too formal,” Jones said. “We are trying to present the site in an attractive way for our audience.” 
Although the news.va site has been successful so far, Jones said improvements are in the works. 
He said there are plans to make the site completely me­dia platform compatible by augmenting the video selection and improving the live stream­ing of papal events. 
“Our goal is to make the site has a reason to be proud,” he said. “At times people think we’re not very visible on cam­pus, but … we want to share with you. We love being a part of Notre Dame.” 
Contact tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
accessible to everyone,” he said.  
Jones has worked at the Pon­tifical Council since 2003. He is also involved in assisting television networks in broad­casting major papal events like Christmas, Easter, the funeral of Pope John Paul II and the election of Pope Benedict XVI. 
Prior to his current position, Jones had worked for 10 years at the Vatican Radio. He said his experience as a reporter gave him excellent background for coordinating the news.va site. 
He also said his Notre Dame education helped to prepare him for his work at the Vatican. 
“The Catholic atmosphere at Notre Dame is enough to give you a sense of what it means to belong to the Catholic Church. My Notre Dame education gave me an ethical foundation,” Jones said. “There’s an empha­sis at Notre Dame of making a morally and ethically informed person, an excellence in pre­paring a person spiritually and intellectually.” 
Contact Marielle Hampe at mhampe@nd.edu 



Play 
continued from page 1 
members from that country, while other teams were made up of members of mixed na­tionalities. Teams composed of Notre Dame students chose a country to represent for the tournament. 
Kevin Dugan, manager of youth and community pro­grams for the athletic de­partment, said the tourna­ment exemplified the focus of Playing for Peace this year 
— to build community rela­tions around the platform of sports. 
“The idea of the tourna­ment was to bring together people from all over South Bend from different ethnic backgrounds and to welcome and celebrate that,” he said. “You don’t realize just how beautiful and diverse our own community is.” 
Sixteen teams and four Special Olympics teams took part in the 7-on-7 tourna­ment. Playing for Peace also held a youth soccer clinic for 80 South Bend children. 
“It’s such an enriching ex­perience when you can get this many people from so many parts of the world all coming together to celebrate the game that they love, to celebrate soccer and develop new friendships and rela­tionships and strengthen the sense of peace and friend­ship in the community,” Du­gan said. 
Dugan said Playing for Peace partnered with Red Cross for the tournament to connect with the many inter­national residents and refu­gees living in the South Bend community. The participants included players from every Central American country, Saudi Arabians, Rwandans and Egyptians, among doz­ens of other nationalities. 
“[The refugees] are so ex­cited to be here playing the game they love in an orga­nized way,” Dugan said. “At the same time they’re rep­resenting their country and really getting into the world cup format.” 
The four teams that ad­vanced to the semifinals were Albania, Italy, South Africa and Rwanda. Albania and South Africa made it to the final round, and Albania won the game 3-2, scoring in the final minute. 
Olieir Ishimwe, a native of Rwanda who now lives in Mishawaka, played on a team representing his home coun­try with other Rwandese. 
“We believe in peace and we believe in trying to come together and [the tourna­ment] was all about that,” Ishimwe said. “It was all about peace and getting to­gether and if we believe in that we should come and join the others in this tourna­ment.” 
Sophomore Colleen Haller represented Sudan in the tournament. Haller said her team participated in the Co-Rec soccer league earlier in the year and wanted to con­tinue playing together. 
“When we found out about the Playing for Peace tour­nament we liked the idea of coming out and representing a country for a good cause,” she said. 
Haller said she enjoyed playing against community members in the games. 
“I think it’s a great idea for the students to actually meet some of the people who live 

here in the community,” she  lock in a vicFootball  tory. at the beginning of the game.  
said. “It’s a really great op­ “I though t the game was go­“We’re athletically superior  
portunity for us to be able to  ing to be a  blowout,” she said. to them,” he said. “It was just a  
play sports together.”  continued from page 1 “I thought w e were going to go matter of how much we would  
Some participants aimed  in there a nd dominate, that win by.”  
to form teams of all differ- cheered for the Irish through­they’d put i t away in the first After struggling in the first  
ent backgrounds rather than  out. half like t he Navy and Air half, Boes said the defense  
teams of a single nationality.  “I was cheering for ND the Force game s.” coming together later in the  
Manar Jbara, a refugee  whole time,” he said. “My bud-She said  the decidedly less game was crucial for the vic­ 
from Iraq, organized a team  dy’s one of the wide receivers impressive  victory was due to tory.  
of players from all over the  [for Wake Forest] ... I was hap-a series of m inor errors. “The defense came up with  
world, including Sudan, the  py when he was doing well, but “I though t the two intercep­some plays that were pretty  
United States and countries  I was happy ND won.” tions were  pretty bad, espe­important,” he said.  
from South America.  Vinett said the highlight of cially the on e where they were Boes said he was happy with  
“There are people from  the game was senior receiver in Cover 3  [zone defense] and the win, despite the close score.  
all continents here to play  Michael Floyd’s third quarter Tommy [Re es] threw it any­“I would have liked to see a  
soccer and promote peace,”  touchdown. way,” she s aid. “Just a bunch bigger point differential, but a  
Jbara said. “They can just  “It completely sucked the life of fundame ntal mistakes we win’s a win,” he said. “I’m hop- 
play and enjoy their time  out of the Wake student sec-could have  avoided ... Wake’s ing next week it’s not as close  
here today. Soccer and  tion,” he said. not that gr eat a team so we as it was this weekend, but  
sports can do that, they can  Sophomore Ashley Barraza could recov er, but if it were a I’m glad we can continue with  
make magic.”  turned down the long drive better team  it could have cost some momentum.”  

Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 

in favor of on-campus game watch and said she was ex­pecting the Irish to quickly us.” 
Junior Andy Boes was also confident in Notre Dame’s odds 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


Oklahoma rebounds from largest quake in state history 
Associated Press 
SPARKS, Okla. — Clouds of dust belched from the corners of almost every room in Joe Reneau’s house as the biggest earthquake in Oklahoma his­tory rocked the two-story build­ing. 
A roar that sounded like a jumbo jet filled the air, and Reneau’s red-brick chimney collapsed and fell into the roof above the living room. By the time the shaking stopped, a pantry worth of food had been strewn across the kitchen and shards of glass and pottery cov­ered the floor. 
“It was like WHAM!” said Re­neau, 75, gesturing with swipes of his arms. “I thought in my mind the house would stand, but then again, maybe not.” 
The magnitude 5.6 earth­quake and its aftershocks still had residents rattled Sunday. 
Two minor injuries were re­ported from Saturday’s quakes by the Oklahoma Department of Emergency Management, which said neither person was hospitalized. And, aside from a buckled highway and the col­lapse of a tower on the St. Greg­ory’s University administration building in Shawnee, no major damage was reported. 
But the weekend earthquakes were among the strongest yet in a state that has seen a dra­matic, unexplained increase in seismic activity. 
Oklahoma typically had about 50 earthquakes a year until 2009. Then the number spiked, and 1,047 quakes shook the state last year, prompting researchers to install seismo­graphs in the area. Still, most of the earthquakes have been small. 
Saturday night’s big one jolt­ed Oklahoma State University’s stadium shortly after the No. 3 Cowboys defeated No. 17 Kan­sas State. Fans were still leav­ing the game. 
“That shook up the place, had a lot of people nervous,” Okla­homa State wide receiver Justin Blackmon said. 
The temblor sent Jesse Rich­ards’ wife running outside be­cause she thought their home was going to collapse. The earthquake centered near their home in Sparks, 44 miles north­east of Oklahoma City, could be felt throughout the state and in Arkansas, Kansas, Missouri, northern Texas and some parts of Illinois and Wisconsin. 
Richards estimated it lasted for as much as a minute. One of his wife’s cookie jars fell on the floor and shattered, and pictures hanging in their living room were knocked askew. 
“We’ve been here 18 years, and it’s getting to be a regular occurrence,” said Richards, 50. But, he added, “I hope I never get used to them.” 
Geologists now believe a magnitude 4.7 earthquake Sat­urday morning was a foreshock to the bigger one that followed that night. They recorded at least 10 aftershocks by mid­morning Sunday and expected more. Two of the aftershocks, at 4 a.m. and 9 a.m., were big, magnitude 4.0. 



“We will definitely continue to see aftershocks, as we’ve already seen aftershocks from this one,” said Paul Earle, a seismologist with the U.S. Geo­logical Survey in Golden, Colo. “We will see aftershocks in the days and weeks to come, possi­bly even months.” 
Brad Collins, the spokesman for St. Gregory’s University in Shawnee, said one of the four towers on its “castle-looking” administration building col­lapsed in the big earthquake and the other three towers were damaged. He estimated the towers were about 25 feet tall. 
“We definitely felt it,” Col­lins said. “I was at home, get­ting ready for bed and it felt like the house was going to col­lapse. I tried to get back to my kids’ room and it was tough to keep my balance, I could hardly walk.” 
Scientists are puzzled by the recent seismic activity. It ap­peared the latest quake oc­curred on the Wilzetta fault, but researchers may never know for sure. Earthquakes that hit east of the Rocky Mountains are harder to pinpoint because the fault systems are not as well studied as major faults like the San Andreas in California. 
Arkansas also has seen a big increase in earthquake activity, which residents have blamed on injection wells. Natural gas companies engaged in hydrau­lic fracturing, or fracking, use fluid to break apart shale and rock to release natural gas. In­jection wells then dispose of the fluid by injecting it back into the ground. 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, November 7, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Love for LaFun 
It may not be the exact crossroads of campus, but it’s just about the crossroads of everything else. There is no other building on campus more chameleonic, more versatile, more multifaceted than the LaFortune Student Center, affectionately known as “LaFun.” 
LaFun is a safe ha­ven from the library when the yellow walls of Club Hes begin to tint your skin, when your legs cramp up from sitting cross-legged on hard chairs for five hours and your stomach abso­lutely refuses another substitution of Chex-Mix and Diet Coke for a meal. 

LaFun is a refuge for tired off-campus seniors, who more than anything want to curl up in bed after a 9:30 a.m. class, but instead must settle for a basement couch. 
And in the winter, when the tem­perature drops to the point where a beer jacket just won’t suffice, LaFun is a three-minute bubble of warmth for girls trek­king in short skirts and open-toed heels all the way from Mod Quad to Duncan. 
LaFun is a safe haven on Football Fridays, but not for students. I love kids, I really do, but I just can’t analyze ex­tended metaphors in Shakespeare while a five-year-old screams that pickles are the grossest and he can’t eat his Subway sandwich anymore, and NO he doesn’t want anything else, or Dad to buy another sandwich. He just wanted THAT sand­wich to NOT have pickles. 
Football Fridays are a day to steer clear. 
Sunday LaFundays: catch up on work, catch up on gossip. Snag a prime spot in the Burger King section to overhear who was wasted, what went on at the dorm party and the details of Joe and Mary’s hookup, which definitely shouldn’t have happened because Mary’s roommate took Joe to an SYR freshman year. 
When the post-brunch gossip dies down, fear not. Grab those unopened textbooks and join the mile-long Star­bucks line to re-caffeinate for an evening of procrastination, dinner, video games, Facebook stalking and dorm mass. 
LaFun has become so much a central part of my life on campus that while on a run at home last summer, I actually cut through my town’s Starbucks, think­ing for a moment I was cutting through LaFun. 
Reaching into my pocket for my student ID, to find a Bank of America card there instead, and then looking up and seeing soccer moms sipping lattes instead of sweatpants-clad peers downing Venti iced coffees, my heart dropped. 
I was approximately 700 miles away from where I wanted to be. Right then, I realized I had just two semesters remain­ing with the building that’s been a refuge from schoolwork, drama, stress and the cold. Just two semesters — now one and a half — left at Notre Dame. 
Maybe when I’m off working in some city, I’ll procrastinate real world responsi­bilities, people-watching from a Starbucks window. But it just won’t live up to sipping on Huddle coffee and slyly peering over a Subway booth, hoping a friend will walk by and save me from the job applications I have yet to start. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at      sfelsens@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Sara Felsenstein 
Associate News Editor 
Don’t write him off 
 The outlook for President Barack Obama’s re-election is grim: unemploy­ment is 9 percent and the economic recovery is weak. About 60 percent of Americans disapprove of how he is handling the econo­my, and a majority Adam Newman of Americans have an unfavorable Scientia view of health care Potentia Est reform. 
The Tea Party is energized, while liberals can’t find the same optimism they possessed in 2008. This begs a very obvious question: how can Barack Obama ever win in 2012? 
At this point, I want to take you back seven years. It was a crisp, fall day in 2004, and I was walking my dog in my hometown of Evanston, Ill. As I was walking down my street, I passed by a neighbor’s home that had a blue sign with white letters in the window. The sign said “Obama for Senate.” 
It is important to put Fall 2004 in context. Three years earlier, 3,000 Americans were killed by terrorist at­tacks led by a man named Osama bin Laden, and America was engaged in a global war on terror. Anti-Muslim sen­timent was at a historical high. While I didn’t know anything about this candi­date, I quickly wrote him off because I thought there was no way he could win. (I should be 100 percent clear at this point. This assumption was not based on any bigoted or racist stance on my part, but more on my questioning how a man whose named rhymed with “Osama” could ever win a Senate seat.) As I continued to walk my dog, I asked myself, “How can Barack Obama ever win in 2004?” 
Alas, this was my introduction to Barack Obama — writing off the man who, four years later, would be elected President of the United States. If there was ever a bonehead political predic­tion in the past decade, it belongs to me. Soon after I wrote Obama off, he gave the keynote speech at the 2004 Demo­cratic National Convention. As many who watched it know, Obama didn’t just give a speech; he gave the speech of a lifetime: (“I stand here knowing that my story is part of the larger American story, that I owe a debt to all of those who came before me, and that, in no other country on earth is my story even possible.”) Americans knew this politi­cian was different. 

Just three years later, the young Senator announced his candidacy for President. His main opponent, Hillary Clinton, possessed a political machine, and name recognition that initially made her a lock for the Democratic nomination. Many, especially Demo­cratic stalwarts, wrote Obama off. Just like me, they asked themselves. “How can Barack Obama ever win in 2008?” 
But we all know what happened. Obama seized the nation’s desire for a different kind of politics, ran a master­ful campaign, raised massive amounts of money and was able to appeal to Americans across the political spec­trum. He won the 2008 election by win­ning the traditionally blue states, the swing states and a handful of tradition­ally red states. 
So for those who ask, “How can Barack Obama ever win in 2012?”, there is one theme from Obama’s past decade of political success you should know. People always have, and will con­tinue to, write Obama off. But despite the opposition, Obama has always been able to overcome seemingly impossible obstacles. 
It is also important to remember President Obama still has political strengths. He retains the political team that helped deliver the 2008 election, a majority of Americans still like him as a person and he is one of the most powerful speakers of our time. Obama’s fundraising effort is still robust, as shown by the $70 million he raised in the third quarter of 2011 — more than all the Republican candidates com­bined. 
But what may be most valuable is that President Obama is still candidate Obama, the politician who could inspire young people and minorities, appeal to independents and moderate Republi­cans and instill within Americans the belief that our best days are still ahead of us. 
Regardless of Obama’s strengths as a candidate, the 2012 election is the Republicans to win, simply because of the state of the economy. 
But much can go wrong. The Tea Party could make the Republican can­didate focus more on the size and role of government than the economy. The economy could improve as the election nears, dramatically helping the Presi­dent. And the Republicans could make the colossal error of nominating some­one other than Mitt Romney, the only candidate who keeps the President’s political strategists up at night 
Will Obama win re-election in 2012? I don’t know. But what I do know (and the Republicans should, too) is that writing off Barack Obama has never been part of a successful campaign strategy. 
Adam Newman is a junior finance major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Have some respect 
To my fellow Notre Dame students,

       As I’m well into my senior year, I’ve had some time to come to this realization: I am sick of hearing Notre Dame students complain about townies. It seems like every weekend it’s the same thing: “Yeah, the Backer would’ve been fun if it wasn’t so packed with townies.” 
Come on people, are we really so pretentious and self-important that we can’t grant the people of South Bend basic respect?
       Those of you who know me understand my bias: I am a proud Hoosier and my mother, most of my extended family, my boyfriend and some of my friends are “townies.” Yes, I am offended by the common use of a term that, whether intentional or not, is derogatory. After all, those same “townies” drive your cabs, make your food, clean your dorms and teach your classes. For people who do so much to help us, you’d think our student body would be a little more grateful. The rampart arrogance on this campus is, to be frank, embarrassing.
       As much as Notre Dame is an integral part of the South Bend community and economy, the people of South Bend are by no means here because of us or to serve us. And when it comes to local bars, look at it this way: the bars were here before us and they will be here after we’re gone, just as South Bend will be. These establishments are not “ours,” and after four months of working in one, I know from experience that Notre Dame students are some of the worst tippers.
       I’m not suggesting that every Notre Dame student is pompous and over-privileged, and I’d be lying if I said I have never wished I was seeing a higher friend to unknown-older-man ratio on any given night at Mulligan’s, but my point is simple. We, as students of the University of Notre Dame, are no better than anyone else, including the residents of South Bend, who deserve the same respect we grant to members of our campus community. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The deeper sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain.” 
Kahlil Gibran Lebanese artist and poet 


Maddie Baker 
senior off campus Nov. 4 
WEEKLY POLL 

What’s the best part of Lafun? 
Starbucks Computer lounge Subway The basement 

Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday 
ndscmobserver.com 


Monday, November 7, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
A movement going nowhere 
I write this column with great hesi­tation. Publication in The Observer and the attention of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary’s community is far more recognition than this nonsensical dem­onstration deserves. 
For all that Occupy John Sandberg Wall Street (OWS) possesses in enthu-Guest siasm and numbers, Columnist it lacks in acumen and brainpower. Some have compared OWS demonstrations with the Tea Party or even the Civil Rights protests. I suppose this observation is accurate, in the same way that the ninth batter for the Fort Wayne TinCaps and Albert Pujols are both baseball players. 
I do not entirely dismiss some ideas behind OWS. Corporate greed and the titanic gap between the richest and poorest Americans is a growing prob­lem that must be addressed — now. 
I do dismiss OWS’s juvenile tactics. Standing outside of the city capital with cardboard sign in hand, chanting a factually inaccurate slogan, waiting to be tear gassed and arrested does not make you a martyr of the lower class, it makes you a buffoon. 
Inequality is not inherently evil. Capitalism, a hallmark of this country, breeds competition; in any competitive environment, there are winners and losers. While some have earned their fortunes in less than reputable fash­ion, many of the wealthiest Americans are in that position because of ingenu­ity and hard work. 
There are certainly many members of the lower class who are extremely hard working and creative as well. But the financial success of some individuals should not lead to paint­ing every corporate executive as evil and insensitive. As Bank of America CEO (and Notre Dame alumus) Brian Moynihan said: “We have a right to make a profit.” 
There is certainly something to be said about moral leadership and using one’s money to help those who need it. Everyone deserves a decent stan­dard of living, and perhaps more exact public policy needs to be enacted to ensure that this happens in the United States. 

So to the demonstrators in the OWS movement, I ask, how is your current strategy (if you can even call it that) progressing toward real change in the system? 
I hear your screams and sense your zeal yet I am unaware of concrete ideas that you have put forth toward bringing justice to corporate America. 
Last Wednesday, some 40 to 50 Har­vard students in an introductory level economics course of 700 kids walked out of the class, citing unity with the Wall Street protestors and bemoan­ing the “clear conservative ideology” inherent in their curriculum. 
There are multiple puzzling aspects to this story, number one being the protestors, who align themselves with the “99 percent,” constitute roughly 5 percent of the class. The rest of the students seemed to be more interested in that day’s lesson, which was (ironi­cally) income inequality. Also, I’m sure there are thousands of citizens who would love to receive an Ivy League education, so can the course instructor bring in 40 to 50 of them to fill those empty seats? 
Standing in solidarity with a sloppily constructed coalition will not fix big problems. Getting an education will. Constructing picket signs will draw few people to a cause, but crafting concrete ideas will draw many more. 
So, while thousands of young citi­zens continue to promote the efforts of OWS this week, I will continue to go to class. I will continue to read the news and ask questions, listen to my teachers and discuss ideas with my peers. And though we won’t come up with the answer to rising poverty and corruption on Wall Street overnight, I can go to sleep knowing that our quiet discussions are closer to a solution than those screaming voices that say nothing at all. 
John Sandberg is a sophomore English major. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Chipotle in the dining hall 
As a junior moving off campus for senior year, I am facing many new choices. One of these choices is whether or not to purchase a meal plan. 
My most likely option would be 25 meals for $297, but that would be nearly $12 a meal! I don’t usually plan on paying $12 for a typical meal during my senior year of college. 
Obviously, I realized I should select a different plan. But after looking through all of the other options, there were no plans that offered a rate of less than $10 a meal, and that’s only if I use all the meals. 
But the problem is, it’s not just about price, I see a meal plan for senior year as a great way to connect with campus life still, so that I am on campus not only for football games and classes, but to hang out and be part of the campus community that I love. 
Along these lines, my roommates and I sat in our com­mon room Saturday afternoon, when our friend men­tioned that there were burritos at North Dining Hall that night. Another person remarked that he wanted some Chipotle. And suddenly, we came up with a great plan for North Dining Hall. What if the dining hall just picked up hundreds of meals from Chipotle? 
Ordering meals would be perfect. It is often difficult to decide how much food should be made, and often students take more than they need, only to throw it away (except on Waste Wednesdays!). The dining hall wouldn’t have to worry about preparing all the food and the students would enjoy an occasional meal delivered to campus. 
Plus we realized that Notre Dame would be making money from the meal plans (even with the additional costs of running the dining hall), so everything would work out perfectly. 
Also, can we have Philly cheese steak and buffalo wings on separate nights? It’s too stressful choosing between the two. 
Food for thought (oh snap). 
Dennis Smith 
junior Keenan Hall Nov. 5 


UWIRE 

My big fat Greek debt bubble 
Is there a future for the Greek people, the Greek government and the Greek nation? There is no time for either daydreaming or guessing, nor for nightmarish scenarios, nor for wishful thinking. The present ailing system need be dismantled and restruc­tured on new foundations. George 
The primary budget sur-Petrocheilos plus that many Greeks are hoping for will prove impos-The Johns sible to achieve if the hugely Hopkins inflated Greek debt bubble News-Letter is not completely removed from the Greek society. Be­havior does not change by handing out orders or an attitude of slandering. 
The only thing that will help change the way of thinking and the everyday mentality is a slow but effective realization that development has lacked balance and stood precariously on a bubble. 
The Greek bubble includes, surrounds and defines every ‘modern-era’ Greek citizen. It intensifies social injustice and the resulting social inequality. 
This bubble has skyrocketed consumer­ism but with no productive results. Success and prosperity increased mainly as a result of corruption, illegal transactions, the gener­ous granting of privileges to certain workers and unions, tax evasion and the embezzlement of state and social security funds. Hard and fraudulent acts brought wealth to many Greeks, regardless of industry. 
It is undisputable that those bubbles are a political issue, and thus needs to be resolved by politicians. Action should be taken and deci­sions should be made. However, that is not an easy task. 
For many years inequality has existed in Greece. Political leaders have been benefitting wealthy, powerful and well-connected citizens to the cost of indigent citizens, unemployed citizens and pensioners. This has to change and if it does not, the debt will never resolve. 
Greek politicians fail to acknowledge the is­sues at hand. In a press conference three days ago, Evangelos Venizelos, the country’s Minis­ter of Finance, claimed that the “sacrifices [of] the Greek people have paid off.” 
“These harsh measures are the country’s ticket towards alleviation of the national debt,” he continued. 
I cannot help but dissent. These sacrifices have not paid off yet and we still do not know if Greece will be alleviated of its huge debt. Such ear-caressing, political statements are cliché, outdated and Greek citizens are fed up with them. We are trying to get rid of this bubble. Such statements may have been effective in the past, in mild situations, but now the country is on fire! Today’s reality demands political acts, self-criticism, clear messages that will support and unify the nation. Greek politicians should finally consider acting how they are supposed to act: like leaders. 
No one can say for sure to what extent the crisis will affect us or how long it will continue to harass the Greek population. Greeks have lived for the past 20 years in a state of albeit fictitious security; now, they are asked to jump into a state of controlled bankruptcy. 
The whole nation has had to radically change its rhythm of life, mentality and everyday hab­its and continue living in a new society, where everything will be completely different. Greeks need visible and radical political action to be taken that will bring more just changes to the lives of every citizen. 
“Absolute poverty is not the problem in our societies. In the developed world we are not in need of more wealth but of more justice,” Brit­ish epidemiologist Richard Wilkinson said, who studied the relation between inequality and social problems in more than twenty countries 
— including Greece. 
In an interview with a Greek newspaper, Wilkinson supported that “equality must come about as a result of free choice.” 
“The citizens must understand that the more social equality exists in a society, the better life quality will exist in all levels of that society,” he said. “It is a matter of societal education.” 
So what would the benefits be? Many: better physical and mental health, longer life expec­tancy, better education, lower crime and drug-use rate, more social trust and greater involve­ment in community acts. 
Recession may aggravate inequality but it may also take the edge off it. Let’s look at the previous economic crisis, in the 1930s: The British Government passed laws that dropped the price of goods at a faster rate than that of salaries. Therefore, inequality was very much limited, as people could buy more, with less money! 
Although it is risky to compare the recession of the 1930s with that of the modern day, we can reach one conclusion: some Greek citizens are paying the price and some others are refus­ing to pay the cost of the crisis. The crisis that they brought to the Greek nation. That is the bubble. 
This article originally ran in the Nov. 6 edi­tion of The Johns Hopkins News-Letter, serving Johns Hopkins University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By KEVIN NOONAN Scene Writer 
Macklemore and Ryan Lewis rocked the house Saturday. The atmo sphere inside Legends during the performance exploded with energy, brought by both the artists and the crowd. 
From the moment Macklemore stepped on stage to perform his newest single “Make the Money” to his closing with the Notre Dame favorite “Irish Celebration,” the place was absolutely insane. The crowd was screaming for an encore before the artists had finished their signoff. 
And the crowd wasn’t the only one loving it. 
“It was crazy. It completely exceeded my expectations of what to night was going to be like. I didn’t know if was going to be good or not, but the vibe and the energy of the crowd was very raucous, ram bunctious, beautiful, challenging. It was beautiful,” Macklemore said after the show. 
“It was awesome,” Lewis added. “Awesome.” 
Macklemore, whose real name is Ben Haggerty, and Lewis, his pro ducer and DJ, came on stage after Stanford Hall resident Alex Andre performed a short set. The duo brought with them their trumpeter, Owuor Arunga. Arunga’s live trumpet work, which remained true to the original songs while also engaged in inspired improvisation, brought the performance to another level. 
Lewis also had some creative work at the DJ table, including an awesome, slowed down remix of the end of the duo’s single “Can’t Hold Us.” 
But the real star of the show was Macklemore. As a recording art ist, his delivery and lyrical style is defined by raw intensity. On his albums, he is able to exude his potent energy very effectively. 
Live, his intensity becomes electric and contagious. And yet at the same time, he is able to temper that intensity with a lively sense of humor that allows him to play his more serious songs without losing the crowd’s energy. 
His performances of “Otherside” and “Wings,” undoubtedly two of his best songs, played well with the crowd despite their sober themes of death, drug addiction and consumerism. 
It wasn’t all serious, though. As he does in the music video, Mackl emore dressed up in his “Raven Bowie” alter ego outfit, inspired by Ziggy Stardust, to perform “And We Danced.” 
Haggerty and Lewis even treated the crowd to an unreleased sin gle, “10,000 Hours,” which based on the rabid crowd response, will likely be another hit for the artists when it debuts. 
The new song will be their fourth single this year, leading up to a new full length album that Macklemore hopes to release in the spring. The group now heads for a month long nationwide tour start ing Wednesday in Bellingham, Wash. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 


Monday, November 7, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

Life is a jungle. the hallmarks of high fashion brand 
While C.S. Lewis and Rudyard creations, the use of real snakeskin Kipling may have mentioned this is seen by many (including PETA fine metaphor in their own literary enthusiasts and Reese Witherspoon) works, we fashionistas need only as endangering the snake popula-
By LAUREN CHVAL small, my parents didn’t always feel the inspiration 
tion. Whichever ideology you follow, Scene Writer the need to explain the changes to of Fashion’s 
snakeskin is now used as a general us. I had talked with court-ordered First Woman to 
pattern by most clothing lines, and “Prisoner of Azkaban” would end therapists, school specialists and my find the kernel 
is also manufactured in faux ma-up being my favorite Harry Potter professional babysitters, but never of truth in this 
terials (so simply check before you book for years. It wasn’t until the with my parents. phrase taken up 
purchase). sixth book was released and spoke to I was naturally a happy kid, and I even by the likes 
In any event, the snake motif has my romantic tendencies that another tried my best not to cause more prob-of Guns n’ Roses. 
been emboldening fashionistas for one of Harry’s adventures would lems for my mother and father. Some Without Eve, 
centuries. First with Cleopatra, then overtake the book in which I met children, when faced with change the first woman charming turn of the century Louis Sirius Black and Remus Lupin. and divorce, turn angry and rebel-to ever acces-Vuitton travel luggage customers. In 
There are a lot of things going on in lious. I turned the opposite direction. sorize and take the 1970s, the third book. Hermione goes off the But Harry had a tendency to make me up the mantra the mate-deep end when she tries to take every examine my life, and for the first time ‘dress yourself’ rial staged single class the school has to offer. I didn’t examine myself. I examined with gusto, it a coup in She and Ron are always going at it those around me. is doubtful we the United because their pets can’t get along. De-Lily and James Potter had been a would spend as much time as we do States, mentors make Harry pass out all the young couple in a troubled time of on our own passion for fashion. inundating time, and in response, he learns how war, but they had loved their son and Blessed in our very own Garden of the popu­to do unrealistically advanced magic. gave everything to protect him. In Eden, we Notre Dame students are lar fashion 
In the midst of all of these develop-the end, that turned out to be their attempting to prepare for the jungle imagination ments, what fascinated me the most lives. My parents were young and of life that lies beyond a du Lac on cowboy were the two men who suddenly troubled for other reasons. I can’t diploma, and as Eve so poignantly boots and brought Harry’s parents to the fore-pretend that I know them — I cer-displayed, no entrance into the great belts, al­front of his mind: Sirius and Remus, tainly didn’t when I was younger. But big world can truly be effective lying the who had been James Potter’s best in the years of constant changes, I without proper attire (although note fabric with friends at Hogwarts. often felt pushed to the side so they today the inclusion of fig leaves the attitude 
Before then, the only time we really could deal with more pressing issues. into one’s ensemble is entirely Senior Morgan Pino of Western felt for Harry’s orphanhood was when I couldn’t be angry with them (it’s not one’s own personal prerogative). In models snakeskin. explor­he lived with the Dursleys, and when in my nature), but I turned sad and this contemporary Garden of Eden, ers ready he gazed longingly into the Mirror lonely in my little life. I felt isolated, like Eve, we too have pesky snakes to battle any rattlesnake that came of Erised back in Book One. Harry as Harry did. I had problems that no driving us to our very own apples their way. was too preoccupied with fending off one seemed to understand, not even that threaten to ruin our paradise The key to accessorizing snakeskin Voldemort in the first two books to those closest to my world. existence. is to make it the key piece of your really dwell on the fact that he didn’t Harry is still lonely after Sirius and Some reptilian thoughts of doubt outfit. have any parents. Remus enter his life; the fifth book come to mind: “Walking up or Depend­
“Azkaban” changed that. Faced alone demonstrated that with his down the Main Building staircase ing on with the idea that their best friend constant yelling and brooding. Strong shouldn’t affect my graduation the color had betrayed his parents, Harry role models cannot solve everything, prospects of the realized he could have had a normal though they still reached out to him because I snakeskin childhood. His parents could have and supported him in ways he had was in heels, pattern on taught him how to fly, talked him not yet experienced and improved his right?” “Is a top, for through his problems and taken him life tremendously. there enough example, to buy his first wand. He could have What I remember most from the popcorn left (green, come to Hogwarts knowing he was third book is the recognition that I in Coleman-brown, a wizard. Instead he got borderline could find support in areas beyond Morse to etc) child abuse at the hands of his aunt my home. I have always had close drown choose a and uncle. relationships with teachers because my latest monotone 
Enter Sirius and Remus, who they came into my life ready to get to fashion sor-color pant treated Harry as some sort of mix know me and listen to me if I chose rows?” “The or skirt. between son and brother. They told to trust them. At 8, I was desperate Starbucks Snake-him stories about what kind of people for someone to understand me, and line is a skin bags his parents were. They looked out for that feeling didn’t end for a long time. legitimate add an his wellbeing. They made personal Harry ensured me that it was OK to excuse for exotic factor to a simple jeans and sacrifices to better his life. For the trust people who were willing to be class tardi-T-shirt outfit, or can complement an first time, Harry got a taste of what it there for you even though they had no ness, isn’t it?” evening look of high heels and killer meant to have real parents. genetic predisposition to do so. Those Unlike Eve, we 21st century LBD. If desirous to match multiple 
As Harry considers how these professional babysitters can some-fashion lovers are privy to a fash-snakeskin patterns, stay in the same parental figures fit into his life, I times be great listeners. ion accessory that combats juicy color palette.  Whatever you do, have started questioning where I fit into As I’ve grown, life has taught me apples, and most importantly their no doubts when wearing this killer my parents’ lives. lessons that are beyond Harry’s snake purveyor, better than Fash-pattern. 
In the eight years of my life before I grasp: My parents love me as Harry’s ion’s First Woman herself could ever This fall, as it turns out, skin is in. picked up “Azkaban,” my parents had did, but mine could sit down and lis-have imagined. Keep your friends been married, separated, divorced, ten when I finally decided to tell them close, your enemies closer, and when Contact Felicia Caponigri at   pregnant and then married again. how I felt. Emotional separation is there’s really no other way to beat fcaponig@nd.edu. As a family, we had been in multiple infinitely better than a physical one. them? Just wear them. Bonjour, cher The views expressed in this column different living arrangements, and snakeskin! are those of the author and not because my brothers and I were so Contact Lauren Chval at lchval@nd.edu Part of exotic materials used as necessarily those of The Observer.  





DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

The Idiocy of Marathons 
They are all idiots. Pheidippides was an idiot, though noble his cause. 
My brothers are idiots. Granted, I’ve known that for two decades, but the three of them have proven it a total of four times: My oldest brother always needs to make a mis­take twice in order to learn his lesson. 
Some of my friends are idiots. I once tasked Matt with designing a risk-free nuclear power plant to prevent the Chi­nese from taking over the world in pursuit of oil, but now I know him to be an idiot. There are many others, some more idiotic than others. 
My Army Ranger veteran of a high school cross-country coach is the biggest idiot I know, and his wrecked knees prove it. 
These people who have shaped my life all share one characteristic with Pheidip­pides: They are marathoners. 
They have set themselves to a 26.2-mile run, and have 



Associated Press 
NEW YORK — NBA play­ers have until Wednesday to accept Commissioner David Stern’s latest offer, though the response already seems obvious. 
“Right now, we’ve been given the ultimatum, and our answer is that’s not accept­able to us,” union president Derek Fisher said. 
But the next proposal promises to be worse, surely moving players and own­ers even further apart and threatening to destroy the season. 
Early Sunday morning, the league said it offered play­ers up to 51 percent of bas-ketball-related income — a figure the union insists is fic­tion. Regardless, it will drop to 47 percent Wednesday if players don’t accept the cur­rent offer by the league-im­posed deadline. 
No agreement by the dead­line likely will trigger more calls to disband the union and take on the league in court, a battle that would take months. 
“It’s fair to say that there are some who believe a vote to decertify is a vote to end the season,” said a person familiar with the owners’ thinking who spoke to The Associated Press on the con­dition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the talks. “The owners are hopeful that the players have a chance to vote on what is on the table, what’s proposed now, be­cause no one knows what happens next.” 
Players don’t seem eager to act quickly. 
“These are professional basketball players, the finest athletes in the world. How do you think they feel about threats? How do you think they feel about efforts at in­timidation?” attorney Jeffrey Kessler said. 
Fisher and Kessler said the league’s time-sensitive deal — Stern refused to call it an ulti­matum — came near the conclu­sion of Saturday’s talks. 
At a charity basketball game in Portland, Ore., on Sunday night, Kevin Durant expressed frustration with the stalemate. 
“Sickening, man, just sicken­ing,” the Oklahoma City star said. “Us, as players, we sacri­ficed, we gave up money, we did what we had to do, now it’s up to the owners, and it looks like they’re not going to give in. At this point now, it’s starting to get bad, because we’ve done all we can do, I think. They’re try­ing to pressure us and back us in a corner. If they’re going to do that, it’s not fair. We’re going to stand firm.” 
The sides had hoped they could complete a deal this weekend with the help of federal media­tor George Cohen. He released a statement Sunday commending the parties for “their willingness to examine solutions to their current dispute” and offering to assist in the future. 
Although the revenue gap has narrowed, the sides are at a standstill on the system issues players insist are just as impor­tant. 
The union believes the league’s proposals to increase luxury tax penalties, and eliminate or reduce some spending options, essentially would prevent the biggest-spending teams from being free agent options. A “re­peater tax” would further pun­ish teams that were taxpayers a fourth time in a five-year span, and players fear the penalty that awaits teams who receive money from the tax pool but suddenly take on salary and go into the tax would discourage spending. 
“The big story here is they want it all,” Kessler said. “They want the system where taxpay­ers will never be in the market­place, and that for repeat tax­payers it’s going to be like a hard salary cap. And those deals are not acceptable for players tow-day; it’s not acceptable for future generations of players. I said, this is an example of they want a win, win, win, win. We wanted to compromise. They’re not giv­ing the players a lot of choice.” 
Though each side claimed credit for economic moves, it ap­pears there was little to no prog­ress. 
Stern said the league proposed a band where players could earn anywhere from 49 percent to 51 percent of BRI, based on reve­nue growth. Union officials said there was almost no way they could get to the ceiling, leav­ing them right at the 50-50 split owners have said they wouldn’t go past. 
Players added they were the ones who were willing to reduce their guarantee down to 51 per­cent, with 1 percent of that go­ing into a fund for retired player benefits, a move one person fa­miliar with their thinking said was made in hopes of “preserv­ing some of a system that’s al­ready being gutted.” 
Stern said he believed he could get owners to pass the current proposal, even though some hard-liners would prefer a 53-47 split in their favor im­mediately. That would be in the next proposal, along with a call for a flex salary cap, which play­ers rejected in June before the lockout began. 
But Stern said they’re ready to go with the one that was put on the table Sunday. 
“Well, they certainly would come closer than our current system,” he said. “They’re, I think, the best we could do at this time. So we’re prepared to live by them if they’re accepted by the players.” 
With the union unwilling to take the latest proposal to its members for a vote, both sides also must be prepared to live with the real possibility of the loss of more games and possibly the season. 

succeeded. “Deep down inside, know only Pheidippides every marathoner envies one way to raced that Pheidippides. It is not find it — by 
distance to that they want to die breaking. tell those at the finish line. They Thus, they at Athens are all idiots. 
simply know the wonders 
the Greeks From Matt to 
of modern medicine 
had won my coach to 
would likely prevent 
the Battle of America’s­
that. Thanks to IVs and 
Marathon. finest mara­
whatnot, exhaustion is 
He uttered, thoner, Ryan 
“Nenikéka-not the death sentence Hall, they 
men,” or “We it was 2,500 years ago. are all idiots. have won,” Instead, collapsing at the They are idi­collapsed and line shows you rationed ots because died. your existence perfectly.” they want to 
Yet my brothers, Matt, my coach and so many others still thought, think and likely will think it smart to memorialize the Greek soldier. One of my better friends sacrificed many of the hijinx of the first third of her senior year so she could spend hundreds of dollars on plane tickets to New York City, subsequently bicker with Con­tinental Airlines about those tickets and then run 26.2 miles in just under four hours yes­terday. Her logic evades me. 
And that is the beauty of it. That is the beauty of a New York City Marathon record 47,106 runners joining her. 
It is said, “If you want to experience something, run a marathon.” Those of us who enjoy their Sundays on the couch watching the Green Bay Packers roll to yet another vic­tory tend to disagree with that sentiment. But it could not be more accurate. 
To bring another quote into the mix, T.S. Eliot wrote, “Only those who risk going too far can possibly find out how far one can go.” 
Thus is the purpose of a marathon: to find out how far one can go. 
Pheidippides quite liter­ally discovered his limit. He reached his ultimate break­ing point and pushed past it, therefore breaking. 
Deep down inside, every marathoner envies Pheidip­pides. It is not that they want to die at the finish line. They simply know the wonders of modern medicine would likely prevent that. Thanks to IVs and whatnot, exhaustion is not the death sentence it was 2,500 years ago. Instead, collapsing at the line shows you rationed your existence perfectly. 
For, as John L. Parker writes in his cult-classic, “Once A Runner,” “A runner is a miser, spending the pennies of his energy with great stinginess … He wants to be broke at precisely the moment he no longer needs his coin.” 
Runners want to find their 
breaking 
point. They 
ruin them­
selves. In a 
marathon, they learn what they are inca­pable of as much as they learn what they are capable of. Yes­terday, 47,107 runners gained a bit more self-awareness in the five boroughs of New York City. Today, though they cringe at the sight of stairs and whimper every time they stand up from the couch, they are smarter than they were yesterday. Yes, by being idiots, they are now smarter. 
So, here’s to the idiots. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
NBA 

Players union unhappy with offer 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
FOR RENT  PERSONAL  The Office Quotes:                  “There are several different ways   sold his Xterra to a smart and capable man named Dwight. This  “You know what the only thing I want for Christmas? I want  “Michael has chicken pot pie for  
to tell if a perp is lying. The liar  is shaping up to be an awesome  Meredith to get better. That’s my  lunch. Actually let me rephrase  
will avoid direct eye contact. The  day for Dwight.” - Dwight Schrute  only wish. But you know what my  that, Michael had an entire chicken  
House For Rent: If you want to live off campus look at this house first!  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many  liar will cover part of his or her face with his hands, especially  wishes never come true. So I’m not going to wish that on her. I...  pot pie for lunch -- Let me be more specific. Michael ate an entire,  
Available now! Second semester  resources in place to assist you.  the mouth. The liar will perspire.  “[dressed as Dwight] Last week  a watch would be nice.” - Michael  family-sized chicken pot pie for  
- Summer lease available...OR  If you or someone you love needs  Unfortunately I spoke to Oscar  I was in a drug store and I saw  Scott  lunch and then he promptly fell  
May 2011-2012 school year. Well- confidential support or assistance,  on the phone so none of this is  these glasses. Uh, $4. And it only  asleep so we’re all trying to be  
maintained 3 bedroom, laundry,  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  useful.” - Dwight Schrute               cost me $7 to recreate the rest of  “Jan is cold. If she was sitting  very quiet so as not to wake him  
hardwood floors, nice yard, great  or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more  the ensemble and that’s a grand  across from you on a train,  up before 5 p.m. Which actually  
location, close to SMC and ND. Call  information, visit ND’s website at:         “I’ve got a Madlib for you. [reading  total of [calculates on watch] $11.”  and she wasn’t moving, you  should be about ... [lifts up wall  
269-429-6346 or 616-292-9829 for  from paper] A stupid, idiotic,  - Jim Halpert                     might think she was dead.”  clock and turns it to 4:50 p.m.] 10  
an appt.  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  numskull named Andy Bernard - Michael Scott  minutes.” -Jim Halpert  

NASCAR 

Stewart wins at Texas to set up Chase duel 

Assosciated Press 
FORT WORTH, Texas — Tony Stewart figures he has no need to issue any more verbal jabs in what has become quite a fight for the Cup title. 
Stewart raced to his second consecutive victory, and won for the fourth time in eight NASCAR Chase for the Sprint Cup races, finishing just ahead of points leader Carl Edwards in the so-called “Texas Title Fight” that fully lived up to its billing Sunday. 
“I’m pretty sure what we did on the race track said every­thing we needed to tell him to­day. I don’t know how you top that,” Stewart said. “The funny thing, I don’t feel like I have to say anything. I feel like I’ve al­ready got it done.” 
After winning last week at Martinsville, Stewart got out of his car in Victory Lane and said Edwards “better be worried. That’s all I’m saying.” 
Now it appears to be a two-driver fight for the champion­ship with two races left after they finished 1-2 at the 1½-mile, high-banked Texas track. 
Stewart has his focus set on winning a third Cup champi­onship, and becoming the first person not named Jimmie John­son to win the title since 2005 
— when Stewart won while driving for Joe Gibbs Racing be­fore becoming a driver-owner. 
“I mean we are set on it, man,” Stewart said. “This is just the way it’s going to be.” 
Stewart cut his points deficit from eight to three with an av­erage speed of 152.705 mph, the fastest Cup race at Texas, and a 1.092-second margin over Edwards, the Roush Fenway driver going for his first cham­pionship. 
“He’s calmed down a little bit this week. It didn’t slow him down any,” said Edwards, the points leader for the fifth straight week. “I hope this roll doesn’t last much longer, oth­erwise this is going to be really tough.” 
The series returns next week to Phoenix, where the track has been reconfigured and resur­faced since Stewart was sev­enth and Edwards 28th there in February in the second race this season, and then to Home-stead-Miami Speedway for the finale. Edwards won both races at the end of last season. 
Stewart led seven times for a race-high 173 of 334 laps, and more importantly stayed ahead of Edwards down the stretch. 
On a restart with 60 laps to go after the second caution in a matter of laps, Edwards was the leader and on the inside of Stewart. 
Coming out of Turn 2, Stew­art shot by onto the backstretch and charged back to the lead. 
“He timed it just right,” said Edwards, who led three times for 14 laps. 
Stewart stayed in front un­til both made their final stops with 31 laps left. Though they dropped out of the 1-2 spots on the track during the cycle of green-flag stops, more impor­tantly for Stewart was that he stayed ahead of Edwards. 
The last lead change came with five laps left when Jeff Bur­ton, who was trying to match Edwards as a three-time Cup winner at Texas, ran out of fuel. 
Burton had been the only car not to make a late stop, and was trying to stretch his last tank to the end. 
During the first of those two cautions in a span of only six laps, Edwards had taken his first lead in more than 150 laps when he got only two tires and jumped from third to first out of the pits. Stewart also took only two tires on that stop, but came out second. 
When Stewart came down pit road after the race, Edwards stuck his head in and shared a few words with his closest com­petitor. 
“I just told him, ‘Good job.’ He did a great job today. Those guys stepped it up,” Edwards said. “I’m proud of my guys for hanging on and still having the points lead. It looks like it’s tru­ly going to come down to Tony and I, and that’s going to be a lot of fun.” 
Kyle Busch was officially eliminated from champion­ship contention, unable to gain any points while watching his No. 18 Toyota going around the track from atop the pit box. He’s 100 points back with two races left. 
Michael McDowell drove the Joe Gibbs-owned car and fin­ished 33rd, three laps behind the leaders. 
Busch was parked by NAS­CAR — a rarely used penalty he couldn’t appeal — for the Cup and Nationwide races after de­liberating wrecking champion­ship contender Ron Hornaday Jr. in the Truck Series race Fri­day night. Busch issued an apol­ogy Saturday night and said he understood why he was penal­ized. 
Five-time champion Johnson moved closer to the end of his unprecedented championship run when he finished 14th. He remained sixth in points, 55 back. 
Stewart and Edwards were greeted at Texas with lockers complete with boxing gloves and robes, a tale of the tape and banners declaring a “Texas Title Fight” matching Cousin Carl vs. Smoke. Another banner hung near Victory lane featur­ing boxing promoter Don King and TMS president Eddie Gos-sage. 
When Edwards and Stew­art were announced at the end of driver introductions, when Chase contenders were pre­sented in order of the stand­ings, there also was the sound of a ringside bell. 
They were in close vicinity of each other all day after starting nose-to-tail. Stewart qualified fifth and Edwards seventh. 
After 85 laps, before the sec­ond round of green-flag pit stops before any cautions, Matt Kenseth was leading with Ed­wards and Stewart running 2-3, though there was a 4-second gap between them. 
After 200 laps, when Stewart was leading and Edwards was running sixth — the farthest they were separated all day — they were even in points. 
Stewart didn’t have a win this season before opening the 10-race Chase with victories at Chicagoland and New Hamp­shire, and now he’s won two more in row again. Before doing it twice in less than two months, Stewart hadn’t won consecutive races since July 2007. 

NFL 

Dolphins dominate Chiefs 31-3 to earn first win 
Assosciated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. — The Chiefs were coming off an ex­hilarating overtime victory, a hard-fought win over a divi­sion opponent that gave them a share of the AFC West lead. 
With a short week on deck be­fore Sunday’s game against the winless Miami Dolphins, coach Todd Haley struggled with how to structure it. He wound up plowing ahead in practice rath­er than backing off and letting his guys heal up, and Kansas City paid for the decision in em­barrassing fashion. 
Matt Moore threw for 244 yards and three touchdowns, Reggie Bush ran for 92 yards and another score and the Dol­phins walloped the Chiefs, 31-3. 
“We really tried to work hard to make sure we were handling the week correctly, physically and mentally,” Haley said. “I’m not making excuses for the guys, but I just think we prob­ably tried to do too much dur­ing the week which they just weren’t physically capable of handling.” 
Matt Cassel threw for 253 yards without an interception, but he spent most of the after­noon running from Dolphins defenders. He was sacked five times and forced to scramble nine more, his 38 yards rushing just two behind Jackie Battle’s team-leading total. 
“I felt that the guys played hard today. I don’t know if that was a factor or not,” Cassel said of the short turnaround from a 23-20 victory over San Diego on Monday night. 
“I felt like this team was pre­pared,” he added, “and we just didn’t go out and execute.” 
There was no disputing that. 
Already trailing 14-3 in the third quarter, the Chiefs tried to get cute with their field goal team and everything went hay­wire. Punter Dustin Colquitt, the holder, was supposed to toss the ball back to kicker Ryan Succop for a pooch punt, but only about half the team ap­peared to have heard the play call. Colquitt fumbled amid the chaos and the Dolphins took over on downs. 
Any chance of a comeback ended early in the fourth quar­ter, when Kansas City failed to convert on fourth down at the Dolphins 3. The Chiefs also couldn’t score on fourth-and­goal at the 5-yard line in the closing minutes of the game. 
“I felt like we were focused and ready, but it didn’t happen, man. It didn’t happen,” line­backer D.J. Johnson said. “We have to do much better. If we want to win this division and play like we did Monday night, we’ve got to be more consistent across the board.” 
Johnson said the loss remind­ed him of the first two games this season, when Kansas City was outscored by Buffalo and Detroit by a combined 89-10. 
“We’ve been through this type of loss before. We’ll bounce back,” he said. “We’ll fight hard next week. We’ll do a lot bet­ter. You’ve got to have a short-term memory in this game. But things like this — gosh — you have to somehow forget it.” 
The virtuoso performance by the Miami offense helped brush away the specter of an 0-7 start, which included a pair of disheartening losses the past two weeks: The Dolphins blew a 15-point lead in an overtime loss to Denver and a seven-point lead last week against the New York Giants. 
“This is all about the players,” Dolphins coach Tony Sparano said. “These guys did a super job all week long of putting all the garbage behind them.” 
Things looked promising for Kansas City on its opening pos­session, when it put together a grinding, 14-play, 53-yard drive that Succop finished off with a 43-yard field goal. 
The Chiefs didn’t do much af­ter that. 
Miami answered with a touch­down later in the first quarter when nobody pick up Anthony Fasano off the line of scrim­mage. Moore simply tossed a pass to him from 3 yards out, the first of 31 straight points scored by the Dolphins — more than they’d scored in any game this season. 
“This was not the kind of per­formance we expected or want­ed,” Haley said stoically. “This was a very dangerous team that was playing a lot better than their record. It’s hard to win in the NFL and they just did a bet­ter job than us.” 
Chiefs cornerback Brandon Flowers put it more succinctly. 
“We got beat,” he said. “We got beat pretty bad by the Mi­ami Dolphins. At home.” 



NFL 

Manning leads Giants to victory in Super Bowl XLII rematch 
Assosciated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. — Su­per Bowl or midseason game, Eli Manning and the New York Giants are masters of the last-minute comeback against the New England Patriots. 
Manning capped a decisive drive eerily similar to the one in the 2008 Super Bowl, throwing a 1-yard touchdown pass to Jake Ballard with 15 seconds left and giving the Giants a 24-20 win on Sunday. 
“I knew we would win,” Giants running back Brandon Jacobs said. “It definitely took me back to the Super Bowl.” 
In that 17-14 victory, Manning threw a 13-yard scoring pass to Plaxico Burress with 35 seconds to go. Four plays earlier, David Tyree trapped Manning’s third-down pass over the middle on top of his helmet for a 32-yard gain. 
On Sunday, the teams met in a meaningful game for the first time since then. And Manning threw another completion over the middle to an unheralded re­ceiver on third down, connect­ing with a leaping Ballard for a 28-yard gain. Five plays later, they hooked up for the winning pass. 
“If it was thrown anywhere else, I wouldn’t have caught it,” Ballard said. “You dream about making catches like that.” 
And Ballard’s number? The same as Tyree’s, 85. 
Manning, of course, threw all those passes, outplaying Tom Brady, who is known for his fourth-quarter comebacks. 
“I’d rather be down by three with a minute-thirty (left) than up by four with a minute-thirty with Tom Brady, with their of­fense on the field,” Manning said. “You like those situations where you have an opportunity to go win the game.” 
The Giants (6-2) kept their two-game lead in the NFC East over the Dallas Cowboys. The Patriots (5-3) are tied with the Buffalo Bills and New York Jets, next week’s opponent, atop the AFC East. 
“We’ve got half the season to go,” Brady said. “We’ll see what our team’s made of this week.” 
The loss ended several im­pressive streaks: wins in an NFL record 31 regular-season starts at home for Brady and in 20 reg­ular-season home games for the Patriots. 
Brady did throw a touchdown pass for the 24th straight regu­lar-season home games. But the Patriots lost consecutive games for just the third time since the start of the 2003 season. 
The Giants won for the sixth time in seven games. 
“We got a little carried away,” defensive end Justin Tuck said when asked about players lift­ing coach Tom Coughlin on their shoulders in the locker room. “Considering how good that team is and what they’ve done here in the last 20 games, it was a big win, and to win it in the fashion that we won it, it brings back memories.” 
For a while, it looked like the Patriots would win with a come­back when Brady threw a 14­yard pass to Rob Gronkowski, making it 20-17 with 1:36 to go. 
But the Giants had enough time. And they had Manning. 
They were helped by a 20­yard pass interference penalty against Sergio Brown that put the ball at the 1 with 30 seconds left. 


“I was looking at the ball the whole time,” Brown said. “I was surprised. They come and tell us as long as we’re looking at the ball we can play the ball.” 
Three plays later, Manning found Ballard in the back left corner of the end zone. 
“I knew I’d be hit hard,” Bal­lard said. “I concentrated as hard as I could.” 
He was guarded by Kyle Ar­rington. 
“We’re going to be hard on ourselves,” Arrington said. “We don’t take losing well.” 
After a scoreless first half, the Patriots took their first lead, 13­10, on Stephen Gostkowski’s 45­yard field goal with 7:08 to go in the game. Manning then led the Giants on an 85-yard march to a 10-yard touchdown pass to Mario Manningham with 3:03 remaining. 
The Giants won despite inju­ries that kept their top rusher, Ahmad Bradshaw, and leading receiver, Hakeem Nicks, from making the trip. But New York’s defense pressured Brady much of the game, coming up with two sacks and two interceptions. 
Manning completed 20 of 39 passes for 250 yards with two touchdowns and one intercep­tion. Brady was 28 for 49 for 342 yards and two touchdowns. 
Both quarterbacks struggled throughout the first half. 
The offense was so bad that fans booed when Brady threw an incompletion with 8:30 left in the third quarter. They cheered on the next play when Aaron Ross fumbled Zoltan Mesko’s punt and Rob Ninkovich recov­ered. 
But the Patriots managed just a 32-yard field goal by Gost­kowski that cut the lead to 10-3. 
The Giants punted on the next series and got the ball back when Spencer Paysinger recov­ered Julian Edelman’s fumble. 
Manning moved the Giants from the Patriots 40 to a third­and-goal at the 5, then threw an interception to Arrington in the end zone. Seven plays later, Brady hit Aaron Hernandez for a 5-yard touchdown, tying the game at 10 just 32 seconds into the fourth quarter. 
The Giants had much better field position in the first half, starting at their 23, 22, 36, 28, 25 and 49. But all those series ended with punts. 
The Patriots began at their 5, 6, 17, 20, 11 and 9. They punted four times and lost one inter­ception before wasting their best scoring opportunity when Gostkowski pulled his 27-yard field goal attempt to the left with 3 seconds remaining. On that drive, the Patriots had five first downs, matching their total to that point. 


ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Irish fall to Boilers in early-season meet 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
Despite strong performances from diving duo junior Jenny Chiang and freshman Allison Casareto and standout sopho­more swimmer Lauren Stauder, the Irish came up on the short end of a meet with Purdue on Fri­day night. The Irish (3-2) fell 168­131 to the Boilermakers (3-0) in West Lafayette, Ind. as Notre Dame earned victories in only six of the 16 events. 
“We need to capitalize on op­portunities to win events,” Irish coach Brian Barnes said. “It was a winnable meet, and we need to real­tory as she initially trailed Irish freshman Bridget Casey but ul­timately took first with a time of 10:06.64, beating Casey by more than six seconds. 
The Irish also suffered a tough defeat in the 200-yard medley relay, losing to the Boilermakers by a mere 0.23 seconds. The team of Stauder, sophomore Sarah Dotzel, fresh­man Hannah Bowen and junior Lauren Scott held the lead for the first two events of the relay but fell behind in the breast­stroke, and Bowen could not close the gap on the freestyle. 
The Irish did manage a vic­
tory in the 
200 -yard 
breaststroke 

ize that every though, as 
“We need to capitalize 
member of the Stauder
on opportunities 
team counts in swam past dual meets.” to win events.” sophomore 
On the div-opp onent ing side of the Brian Barnes Emily Fogle team, the Irish in the final 
Irish coach 
proved domi­nant, with Chiang and Casareto fin­ishing first and second in both the 1-meter and 3-meter diving events. Chiang earned first on the 1-meter with 308.93 points while Casareto placed second. In the 3-meter, their places flipped, with Casareto scoring 296.03 points, just barely ahead of Chi­ang’s score of 292.13. 
“[Casareto and Chiang] both competed very well on Friday night, as they have all season,” Barnes said. 
However, the Boilermakers would proceed to win 10 of the 14 race and relay events. 
Purdue freestyle swimmer and senior Lauren Roth proved to be a difference maker, winning both the 200-yard and 1,000-yard freestyle. In the latter event, Roth earned a come-from-behind vic­lap and fin­
ished with 
an NCAA B-
cut time of 2:15.58. 
Young swimmers continued to be bright spots for the Irish, as Casey won her third 200­yard fly event of the season, while freshman Emma Reaney dominated the 200-yard Indi­vidual Medley, winning by more than four seconds in 2:03.43. Finally, sophomore Kelly Ryan placed first in the 200-yard backstroke, finishing ahead of junior teammate Gracie Fred-lake by just over one second. 
The Irish conclude their stretch of three straight road dual meets Saturday when they face Big East rival Louisville at 1 p.m. 
Contact Matt Unger at         munger3@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Group champions highlight weekend 
By WALKER CAREY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish enjoyed a suc­cessful weekend competing against Minnesota, Denver and Nebraska this weekend in the Gopher Invitational at the University of Minnesota. 
The singles tournament field was broken down into four groups, each comprised of two players from each team, totaling eight players for each group. The doubles tournament field was struc­tured similarly, but with only one pair per team in each group. 
The Irish had three players emerge as champions of their singles groups, with senior Sam Keeton winning Group B, sophomore Billy Pecor taking Group C and junior Blas Mo­ros winning Group D. 
“[Keeton, Pecor and Moros] all did a fantastic job,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
“Keeton and Moros did not lose a match in their groups and Pecor only lost once. They com­peted hard and obviously did very well for us.” 
Notre Dame also saw victory in doubles Group B, as the tan­dem of senior Casey Watt and sophomore Greg Andrews took the crown. Bayliss said it was not only the group champions, but the entire Irish squad that turned in strong performances at the tournament. 
“It was a very strong effort this weekend,” Bayliss said. “It was an impressive effort all around. The guys that won their groups obviously played very well, but so did everyone else. It was a strong showing.” 
Bayliss was particularly impressed with senior Niall Fitzgerald, who gave a notable effort despite not being 100 percent healthy. 
“I was very proud of Niall to­day,” Bayliss said. “He was bat­tling a very sore arm and gave us quite the courageous perfor­mance in his win over Minne­sota’s Michael Sicora. [Fitzger­ald] would have usually used a big serve to get the win, but to­day he had to be more tactical. He did a great job being able to get the victory.” 
The Minnesota Invitational marked the end of Notre Dame’s fall schedule, so there will be a break from team activities until competition resumes in January. However, Bayliss said there could still be improve­ment during the break. 
“The guys can definitely get better through work with weights and some condition­ing,” Bayliss said. “We are not allowed to do any team activi­ties, but that does not deter us from improvement.” 
The Irish will return to com­petition when they host Illinois State and Toledo on Jan. 15. 
Contact walker Carey at           wcarey@nd.edu 


Irish junior Blas Moros lunges for a return during a match in the Fallon Invitational on Sept. 23 at the Eck Tennis Center. 
MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
ND rallies for win after loss to Purdue 

By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
In two very different meets, Notre Dame struggled and fell to Purdue on Friday but overpow­ered Valparaiso the following day in a weekend of non-confer­ence matchups that would tell much about the depth and com­petitiveness of the Irish squad. 
Though the Irish (4-2) fell 184­113 to the Boilermakers, a num­ber of individual performances stood out. Sophomore Frank Dyer posted victories in the 200 free and the 100 fly, while fresh­man Jimmy McEldrew won the 1,650 free, colloquially known as “the mile.” 
“The obvious is the obvious,” Irish coach Tim Welsh said. “They were much faster than we were. But when you’re train­ing hard and traveling at the same time you often get mixed results. There were positives all throughout the meet, including a few individual victories.” 
In a season in which the young Irish team is still in a process of self-discovery, teams like Pur­due, perennially in the top-25 nationally, are the types of teams against which Welsh said he likes to measure his squad. 
“Purdue is an excellent pro­gram year in and year out,” Welsh said. “They’re the fastest team that we’ve faced since [we fell to Michigan 174-119 on Oct. 15], and those are the teams that we want to measure ourselves against, because that’s where we want to be ourselves.” 
On Satur­
day, the Irish traveled back  “It’s an old-school meet in an old-school place.”  isville, reigning the  Big  
upstate for a meet with Val- Tim Welsh  East pion.  cham­ 
paraiso,  win- Irish coach  “We’re excit­ 
ning 11 events  ed  to take  on  
on the day en  the  Cardinals  
route to a com- because, much  

manding 130-70 victory over the in the vein of Michigan and Pur-Crusaders. due, they’re a team that we want 
“We always enjoy going to to measure ourselves against,” Valparaiso,” Welsh said. “It’s an Welsh said. “The Louisville­old-school meet in an old-school Notre Dame rivalry can be pretty place. It’s good for our athletes to intense, so that should be fun as get a chance to see that.” well.” 
The meet, which was set up in The Irish travel to Louisville, correlation with a Saint Mary’s Ky. on Saturday to take on Lou-meet against the Crusaders’ isville. women’s team, allowed Welsh to shuffle around his lineup a little Contact Conor Kelly at                         bit, giving some experienced ckelly17@nd.edu 
athletes the opportunity to com­pete in events that they normally do not and others who have not seen much of the pool to get in the water. 
“In the long run, I think the ex­perience helps quite a bit,” Welsh said. “It was a very good meet.” 
That experience will be vital 
soon, as the Irish go back on the road next weekend to take on Lou­

Bouts 
continued from page 20 
the tournament is more on dis­playing the skills learned dur­ing months of intense training, senior co-president Erin Byrne said. 
“Winning and losing is not the center of our tournament,” Byrne said. “We have a compro­mise between having the best boxer win and having the best fights possible given size and skill.” 
In the past, the boxers had been paired according to expe­rience, skill and size. This year, 
the  women  
are  grouped  
in  pods  of  

four. Within 

the pod, they “Winning and losing through to the are assigned is not the center of end because it a partner who our tournament.” takes so much they will fight [to get through in round one. the training].” 
Erin Byrne 
The two pod As for the 
senior co-president 
winners then charitable el-
the girls learn the most about what it’s really like to box,” By­rne said. “We had our last ses­sion [on Saturday] so we’ve had about three-and-a-half weeks of sparring.” 
Byrne said the Women’s Box­ing Club has one of the biggest time commitments of all univer­sity organizations, but she also said the intense workouts are an attractive aspect for many of the club members. 
“Fitness-wise, the intensity is very similar to a JV or varsity level of high school sports,” By­rne said. “This is definitely one of the most time-intensive clubs. But the girls like having the time commitment and having to come four days a week. It’s a hard commitment, but it means a lot when the girls make it 
square off in round two. 
“I think [the tournament] is great because girls who worked so hard don’t have to say good­bye to it all in one night,” se­nior co-president Jen Coe said. “You have a chance to advance and also for the girls who don’t advance, they have a chance to watch and cheer on the other girls.” 
These matches are the cul­mination of months of training and preparation. Since the be­ginning of September, the lady boxers have had two-hour prac­tices four to six times a week. For the first month the practices consisted of conditioning, basic technique instruction and low-energy contact drills. Not until the week before fall break did the boxers begin sparring. 
“[Sparring] is really where ement of the 
Women’s Box­
ing Club, the 
boxers raise money not only through various fundraising efforts leading up to Baraka Bouts, but also through the tournament itself. One of the main fundraising events this year was the Power 24 Hour. In the past, the event was simply a single hour. This year, however, the boxers took turns outside South Dining Hall, where they worked out and collected dona­tions. 
Byrne said the event was a huge success, as the club raised roughly 10 times more than they had in previous years. 
All profits go to the Holy Cross Missions in Uganda to help im­prove secondary school educa­tion. In prior years, the money went specifically to the Lakev­iew Senior Secondary School. 
The effects of the donations have been palpable, Byrne said. 
“The amount of differ­ence that our fundraising has made at Lakeview is monumental,” Byrne said. “The quality of facilities and the area where the kids can board is so much better than anywhere else in Uganda.” 
This year, the money will also go toward St. Joesph’s Hill Secondary School, pri­marily to establish on-cam­pus housing for students. Stu­dents, who sometimes have to walk two hours to and from school, will now have a place to board, which will be beneficial to their studies. 
“The students have no time after they walk home from school,” Byrne said. “Also, when they live at home they’re responsible for household chores. The boarding part of the high schools allows them to [devote more time] to their studies.” 
Byrne and Coe, along with fellow senior Natalie Bal­dasare, had the opportunity to visit Uganda and saw first­hand just how much of an im­pact Baraka Bouts has made on the lives of people some 7,600 miles away. 
“When I was there, I saw how important education is, especially in the lives of girls, [since] it is still a very patri­archal society,” Coe said. 
Looking back on her four years as a member of the Boxing Club, Coe commend­ed the duality of the organi­zation. 
“I think it’s so fantastic that we can be in an athletic program that is also a ser­vice program,” she said. 
The bell to commence Baraka Bouts rings Monday at 5 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Mike Monaco at         jmonaco@nd.edu 


Brey 
continued from page 20 
guys that just aren’t going to be in the mix.” 
In the exhibition opener, Irish senior forward Tim Abromaitis, one of two re­turning starters from last year’s 27-7 squad, paced Notre Dame with 28 points and nine rebounds in a bal­anced effort Brey said the Irish will need often this sea­son. 
“We don’t want [Abromai­tis] dribbling too much, but we can put him in a situation where it is one or two drib­bles and he is going to be able to do something,” Brey said. “We are going to need both [Abromaitis and senior guard Scott Martin] to rebound … [Abromaitis] is going to be on the floor for the whole game for the most part. He has be­come a better passer.” 
Irish sophomore guard Je-


Jackson 
continued from page 20 
on the losing end of the shoot­out both games, Jackson was pleased with the play of soph­omore goaltender Mike John­son, who ended with 19 saves Friday and 21 saves Saturday. 
“I though Mike [Johnson] played very well,” Jackson said. “I’m disappointed he didn’t get more for his effort. You work hard and get two ties, but with those shoot­outs you come away feeling like you’ve lost. But we came away with two ties against a top-20 team, and he gave us a chance to win in both games.” 
While Jackson was im­pressed with his netminder, the other side of the ice was disappointing. The Irish pep­pered senior goaltender Reid Ellingson with 45 shots Sat­urday, but could only get one past him. 
rian Grant started for Notre Dame after retaining a year of eligibility by being red-shirted his freshman year. He scored four points, grabbed five rebounds and recorded three steals in the victory. 
“I don’t know [what to ex­pect] but [Grant’s develop­ment] is more toward exciting than worried,” Brey said. “He had a stress reaction and it was really smart to red-shirt him in his first year. I am ex­cited about where he could go.” 
Like the Irish, Stonehill re­turns only two of five starters from last year’s team — se­nior forward Patrick Lee and junior guard Sam Markle — under coach David McLaugh­lin. Monday night’s game will be the first test for its new contributors. 
The Irish and the Skyhawks will tip-off Monday at 7:30 
p.m. at Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact andrew owens at         aowens2@nd.edu 
“We were just unable to get the puck in the net,” Jack­son said. “We were getting chances and we had a cou­ple of wide open looks, but their goalkeeper was com­ing across and making those saves on us.” 
After four straight road games, the Irish will return to their home ice this week­end, something Jackson is looking forward to. 
“We’ve got a big weekend coming up here,” he said. “It’s our first game in Comp­ton with all of the students back, so we’re hoping to have a great student crowd. Hope­fully we’ll get a big crowd for our open house on Monday and a big crowd this week­end.” 
The Irish return to the ice against Alaska at the Comp­ton Family Ice Arena this Fri­day at 7:05 p.m. and Saturday at 5:05 p.m. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 

Waldrum 
continued from page 20 
“We had a chance to come back and it just didn’t work out. It is what it is. [After all those chances] it just seemed like it wasn’t going to be your day. 
“It has just been one of those years. We have tried to sort of make our own luck but it just didn’t work out [on Friday]. But 
am really proud of the effort the girls showed out 
The Irish got their chance in the 72nd minute, when Henderson back-heeled a pass from the penalty spot to soph­omore forward Adriana Leon, who fired a laser into the back of the net from outside the box. But Leon’s goal — her sixth of the year — proved to be the only point on the board for the Irish, despite outshoot­ing the Cardinals 12-5 in the second half. 
Notre Dame, whose 
62-m atch 
conference 
unbeaten 
streak ended 

there.” in a 1-0 loss 
“It has just been one 
Notre Dame to Louisville 
of those years.” 
trailed the on Sept. 16, entire game, has outshot giving up two Randy Waldrum the Cardi­goals within Irish coach nals 39-21 
the first 11 minutes of the game. After a 12-yard strike from sopho­more forward Christine Exeter put Louisville (12-6-3, 7-1-2) up 1-0 in the fourth minute, senior defender Katie McDonald dou­bled the Cardinals’ lead with a header off a corner in the 11th minute. Trailing 2-0 at the half, Waldrum said his team’s focus was on cutting the lead in half, rather than panicking for two quick goals. 
“Well we had to focus on the fact that we had to get one [goal] back and then go from there,” Waldrum said. “We felt if we scored one we could really pressure them and make them pretty nervous, which we end­ed up doing. But [Louisville] is such a defensive team and put everyone back to defend that it was tough on us.” 
this season. 
Despite the 
considerable 
shot margin 
Wald rum said his team didn’t take ad­vantage of scoring opportuni­ties to propel the Irish to vic­tory. 
“We didn’t create enough quality chances,” Waldrum said. “We needed all the stars to show up and I don’t think we had anyone willing to real­ly take someone on. We didn’t execute well and play those full 90 minutes that we have been striving to all year.” 
Notre Dame will learn of its postseason fate when the NCAA announces the field for the 2011 Women’s Soccer Championship at 4:30 p.m. Monday. 
Contact andrew Gastelum at     agastel01@nd.edu 


Seniors 
continued from page 20 
people coming in to contrib­ute off of the bench,” Brown said. “We had really steady play if you take out the stretch where we lost seven points in a row in the second set. We played consistently.” 
Houser led the Irish on of­fense with her 17 kills, but it was the squad’s balanced play that secured the vic­tory. Fellow freshman Toni Alugbue notched an efficient 11 kills on .500 hitting, and sophomore Andrea McHugh turned in a double-double with 10 kills and 13 digs. Sophomore Maggie Brindock led the squad with 35 as­sists. 
Brindock also contributed 13 digs in the effort, match­ing the total of senior Frenchy Silva, who, along with fellow senior Kristen Dealy, played in her penultimate match at home. Dealy led the team with 16 digs. 
On Sunday, the Irish domi­nated the Scarlet Knights (8­21, 1-11) on their way to a 3-0 (25-15, 25-11, 25-17) Senior Day victory. Notre Dame se­niors Frenchy Silva and Kris­ten Dealy played in their final match in Purcell Pavilion. 
“Those two have just been so special for us, and we wanted their last home match to be a good one,” Brown said. “It’s hard to describe what they’ve meant to the team over their four years here.” 
Houser once again led the Irish in kills with 15, and classmate Alugbue added 10. 
The Irish are now 8-4 in the Big East with one weekend of regular season matches re­maining. Notre Dame will visit Marquette and Syracuse over the upcoming weekend, looking for a win or a loss by a lower-seeded team to ensure postseason play. 
“We can’t control what other teams in the conference do,” Brown said. “So we’re just go­ing out to win the match in front of us — the higher seed we can get, the better.” 
The Irish travel to Milwau­kee, Wis. to take on Marquette on Nov. 11. 
Contact Conor Kelly at                       ckelly17@nd.edu 


EUGENIA LAST 

WILL SHORTz 
CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 

ALEX GRISWOLD HENRy ARNOLD 
THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Monday, November 7, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Hanging in the balance 
Loss to Louisville puts NCAAs in jeopardy 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
It all happened within a few minutes. The ball ricocheted hard off the post, a game-tying put-back was overruled and Notre Dame’s hopes of a Big East championship ended with a resounding thud off the crossbar in a 2-1 loss to Louis­ville on Friday. 
The defending national champion Irish (10-7-3, 6-3-2 Big East) made a furious come­back attempt in the final 15 minutes of the Big East semi­finals, starting with a contro­versial non-call after senior forward Melissa Henderson was pulled down in the penalty area in the 76th minute. 
Soon after in the 82nd min­ute, a free kick from senior midfielder Jessica Schuveiller hit the post and the rebound fell to the feet of freshman defend­er Taylor Schneider. Schnei-der poked in the chance for what seemed to be the game-tying goal before the linesman flagged her for offside. 


The dynamic freshman had another chance to equal­ize just three minutes later, but her shot from the right flank clanged off the crossbar, thwarting the Irish comeback. 

“We had the chances and we went in the hole early,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. 
see WALDRUM/page 18 
BARAKA BOUTS 
Tournament returns with new format 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
Remember those women do­ing push-ups, sit-ups and calis­thenics outside of South Dining Hall last Friday? Those were members of the Notre Dame Women’s Boxing Club, which kicks off its annual boxing tour­nament, Baraka Bouts, Monday night. 
The club, which combines athletics and charity, is in its 14th season on campus. This year’s Baraka Bouts will be the first time the tournament has two rounds. Monday night, approximately 85 boxers will compete in round one, with the winners advancing to round two on Thursday. Although the bouts are competitive and win­ners are chosen, the focus of 
see BOUTS/page 17 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame ready for exhibition vs. Stonehill 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame will conclude its exhibition season Monday when it hosts Stonehill College. 
The Skyhawks, who were victorious in 22 games in the 2010-11 season, will play for the first time this season, while the Irish come into the matchup after defeating Saint Xavier 90-72 Tuesday. 
Facing an inexperienced squad in an exhibition game, Irish coach Mike Brey will likely use the matchup to focus on developing some of Notre Dame’s young players. 
“I don’t know if there was ever a team I could tell on the first day of practice: ‘Alright let’s start with this fellas, ev­erybody’s playing,’” he said. “I don’t know if many coaches can say that. I certainly have never been in a situation like that. There are always a few 
see BREY/page 17 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish improve playoff position with pair of wins 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish moved two steps closer to clinching a berth in the Big East tournament with a pair of convincing wins at home over Seton Hall and Rutgers this weekend. 
Notre Dame currently sits in fifth place in a conference in which the top eight compete in the conference championship tournament. With just one more win, the Irish can secure a spot. 
On Saturday, freshman Jeni Houser led the Irish (15-9, 8-4 Big East) with 17 kills on their way to a four-set victory 3-1 (25­18, 22-25, 25-22, 25-17) over Se­ton Hall. 
After stumbling in the sec­ond set with its only sustained stretch of poor play on the day and facing the prospect of a 2-1 deficit heading into the fourth, the Irish rebounded to secure a close third-set win. 
Irish coach Debbie Brown said her squad never looked back and rolled to a team vic­tory. 
“I thought it was really good team play for us with lots of 
see SENIORS/page 18 
HOCKEY 

Team earns two points at NMU 

By SAM GANS 
Sports Writers 

The Irish left Northern Michigan feeling satisfied with two ties over the week­end, but disappointed in missing out on two potential conference points by losing the shootout both games. 
Notre Dame (5-2-2, 3-1­2-0 CCHA) played the Wild­cats (4-3-3, 1-2-3-2) to a 2-2 tie Friday followed by a 1-1 stalemate Saturday. North­ern Michigan defeated the Irish 1-0 in the shootout both nights. 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson was happy to earn two ties in the hostile Berry Events Cen­ter, but upset at the result of the shootouts. 
“It’s frustrating. I’m not a fan of the shootout,” Jackson said. “We played two pretty good road games, and we tied two games which is im­portant to us from an NCAA standpoint, but the shootout losses hurt us as far as points in the conference go.” 
The Irish got off to a slow start Friday when Wildcat sophomore forward Ryan Kesti scored his first career goal 6:02 into the game to give Northern Michigan a 1-0 lead. Irish sophomore right wing Mike Voran tied the game later in the period, then senior right wing Billy Maday put Notre Dame ahead early in the second period. 
Wildcat senior forward Jus­tin Florek quickly responded with a goal of his own to make the score 2-2, where the margin would stay for the rest of the contest. Sopho­more forward Reed Seckel scored the lone shootout goal for Northern Michigan. 
Though the Irish were un­able to claim a victory Fri­day, the return of sophomore left wing Jeff Costello was a bright spot for the team. 
“[Costello] had a positive impact for us,” Jackson said. “He’s going to be a factor for us from a physical perspec­tive, and he’s still recover­ing.” 
Saturday night was a simi­lar story, except the Irish got on the board first. Sophomore right wing Bryan Rust scored his first goal of the season to put Notre Dame up 1-0. Wild­cat senior forward Andrew Cherniwchan tied the game in the third period and senior forward Tyler Gron scored the shootout winner. Though the Irish wound up 
see JACKSON/page 17 








