
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Candidates compete in city’s mayoral race 
Journalism professor predicts Buttigieg as winner, cites economic development as main resident concern 
By MEGAN DOYLE been much doubt about that won it was 1967, so it was a nomic development and bring tion between the City of South News Editor since the primary when he long time ago,” Colwell said. jobs to the community and Bend and the University won really big, and South “Buttigieg actually got a lot turn around the image of the would only grow as the new 
Three candidates are on the Bend tends to be a Democratic of cross-over Republicans city,” Colwell said. “Newsweek mayor takes office. ballot for the mayor’s race in town any-
voting for 
Magazine 
The University is the area’s South Bend today, but a Notre way.” 
him in the rated South 

largest employer and proj-Dame journalism professor C o l w e l l 
pr i m a r y, Bend as a 

ects developed through Notre said the city will continue to c o ve r e d 
Dame, such as Eddy Street see a Democrat in office after politics for 
so he’s not dying city, 
only a fa-and the new 

Commons and construction the election. the South 
vorite with mayor will 

on campus, bring jobs to the Professor Jack Colwell, who Bend Tri­
certainly 

area, he said. was also a longtime political bune for 
Democrats 
but with want to 

“Notre Dame is a very im­journalist, said Democrat Pete more than 
Republi ­erase any 

portant part of the economy, Buttigieg, a 29-year-old busi-38 years cans, too.” image like 
and if the city is looking to nessman, has long been the and still Buttigieg The ma-Curry that. That’s Farrell bring more jobs to the area front runner in today’s race. writes a po-jor issue on been the I think it’s got to be work-Republican Wayne Curry and litical column for the paper. South Bend residents’ minds main thing they have been ing with Notre Dame because Libertarian Patrick Farrell He said Buttigieg’s place as has been economic develop-talking about, the image of years ago this was known as will also appear on the ballot. an early favorite is consistent ment, Colwell said. the city and how to get the a factory town,” Colwell said. 
“Pete Buttigieg will almost with mayoral elections in the “[The debate has] mostly economy moving again in the “Studebaker was produced certainly be the new mayor,” city’s history. been who would be the most city.” Colwell said. “There hasn’t “The last time a Republican competent to help with eco-Colwell predicted coopera-see MAYOR/page 5 

Panel addresses euro crisis 

By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Though the four scholars in Monday’s “Crisis of the Euro” panel discussion have differ­ing disciplines, all agreed on one thing: the eurozone is in serious trouble.
 “Europe has often been the site of hope and good things, but has also often been the site of bad and trou­bling things,” sociology pro­fessor Robert Fishman said during the discussion held by the Nanovic Institute. “We’re again at a moment where Eu­rope is the site of bad and troubling things.” 
Fishman said he believes the temporary solutions that have and will be put together to deal with this crisis will not be definitive. 

“There are many reasons why a definitive collapse of the euro is possible,” he said. “I’m not predicting it will happen, it will be very costly for Europeans and others if it does happen.” 
There is a huge difference between the cultures, identi­ties and economies of the 17 European states that make up the eurozone. 
“Unemployment in Austria is 3.9 percent,” he said. “Un­employment is Spain is 22.6 percent.” 
Political science professor Sebastian Rosato said all of Europe’s problems with the euro stem from the fact that Europe is not a single state. 
“There is no chance that Europe will become a single state and this means that even if Europe rides out this crisis, there will be many more crises in the future,” he said. “And eventually, there will be a crisis big enough that the euro will collapse.” 
Rosato also said that be­cause Europe is made up of different states, there are different types of fiscal needs. 
“If you have a one size fits all monetary policy, it’s go­ing to be too tight for some states and too loose for other states,” he said. 
Political science professor Alexandra Guisinger said one of the problems with the euro is based in history. She said that the first time Eu­rope pushed for a fixed ex­change rate, or single cur­rency like the euro, was in 

see EURO/page 4 

Poetry tour showcases current Latino talent 

By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
A national Latino poetry tour affiliated with Notre Dame launched at Harvard Univer­sity today. 
The Poetry Society of Ameri­ca (PSA) and Letras Latinas, a subdivision of the literary pro­gram at Notre Dame’s Institute for Latino Studies (ILS), cre­ated the tour, called “Latino/a Poetry Now.” 
The tour will showcase 15 poets in a span of two-and-a­half years at different univer­sities across America. It will conclude at Notre Dame in Oc­tober 2013. 
Director Francisco Aragón of Letras Latinas facilitated the opening installment of “Latino/a Poetry Now” at Har­vard University. 
Lauro Vazquez, first-year MFA graduate student and Aragón’s assistant, said the poets hoped to debut a new wave of Latino poetry through the national readings. 
“All of these poets, or the ma­jority, are kind of like a newer generation that is coming into maturity,” he said. “What ‘La­tino Poetry Now’ seeks to do is enhance the visibility of La­tino poetry and these newer voices.” 
Vasquez said that, while the term “Latino” implied a homo­geneous focus in the showcase, each poet produced different styles of work. 
“In reality Latinos are very diverse,” he said. “They have varying aesthetics, influences and cultural backgrounds. The topics are tremendously di­verse.” 
Different poets will speak at each segment of the series, Vazquez said. The first install­ment featured Rosa Alcalá, Eduardo C. Corral and Arace­lis Girmay. Corral recently won 
see POETRY/page 3 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Mock trial competes at UCLA page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u “A Very She and Him Christmas” review page 9 u Men’s basketball defeats Stonehill page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u Day-to-Day Tuesday, November 8, 2011 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE GUILTY PLEASURE TV SHOW? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Anthony Albert  Beth  Lance Mulcahey  Christina  Ryan Dunbar  Marianinna  
junior Knott  Wendelberger sophomore  sophomore Dillon  McDonnell senior  junior Keenan  Villavicencio sophomore  
“Dancing with the Stars.”  Pasquerilla East “Clifford the Big  “Mighty Morphing Power  Breen-Phillips “Survivor.”  “Hannah Montana.”  Ryan “River  
Red Dog.”  Rangers, the original.”  Monsters.”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Amanda Gray Marisa Iati Emma Russ 

Graphics 
Lauren Kalinoski 

Photo 
Thomas La 


Sports 

Molly Sammon Joseph Monardo Laura Coletti 

Scene 

Courtney Cox 

Viewpoint 
Ren Brauweiler 


OFFBEAT 

Russian man arrested for dealings with dead bodies 
MOSCOW — The Russian historian had always been open about his interest in the dead and eagerly described how he loved to rummage through cemeteries, study­ing grave stones to uncover the life stories behind them. 
What he failed to men­tion, according to police, was that he had dug up 29 bodies and taken them back to his apartment, where he dressed them in women’s clothes scavenged from graves and then put them on display. 
A police video of the man’s apartment in the Volga Riv­er city of Nizhny Novgorod released Monday shows his macabre collection of what look like dolls. 

Russian media reports identified the man as Ana­toly Moskvin, a 45-year-old historian who was consid­ered the ultimate expert on cemeteries in Nizhny Novgorod. 
The arrest followed a long-running investigation into the desecration of graves at several cemeteries in Nizh­ny Novgorod beginning in 2010, police spokeswoman Svetlana Kovylina said. She did not explain how they tracked him down. 
Escaped flamingo spotted in New York City 
POUND RIDGE, N.Y. — It wasn’t a lawn ornament on a suburban New York lake. It was an honest to goodness 

LOCAL WEATHER 
real pink flamingo. 

According to the New York Post, Chris Evers spotted it last month while canoeing on Lake Kitchawan near his Pound Ridge home. 
Concerned the tropical bird would die in the cold overnight, he brought it home and placed it in a wa­ter-filled bathtub. 
An ID band on the bird’s leg showed it had been hatched at an exotic-animal business in North Carolina. 
The flamingo’s owner was quickly contacted. He’s a pri­vate zoo operator who lives 15 miles from Evers and has a state permit to keep a flock of flamingoes. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
Carey Troy, assistant pro­fessor of civil engineering at Purdue University, will present the next install­ment of the Environmental Fluid Dynamics Seminar Series, titled “A Year of In­ternal Poincaré Waves in Lake Michigan.” The semi­nar will take place today in Room 258 in the Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering from 11 
a.m. to 12 p.m.  
Dennis Boyle, partner in the international consult­ing firm IDEO, will pres­ent the next lecture in the Entrepeneurial Insights Lecture Series, titled “En­trepreneurship and Design Thinking.” The lecture will take place today in Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business from 5 to 6:30 p.m. 
Join MEChA, Student Gov­ernment, and the Diversity Council for an open conver­sation with administrators from the Office of Student Affairs and Campus Minis­try on multiculturalism and race relations in residence halls. The discussion will take place on Wednesday from 5:30 to 6:30 p.m. in Room B34 and Room B36 in Geddes Hall. 
Nathaniel Perry, winner of the 2011 American Po­etry Review and the Hon­ickman First Book Prize, will read from his collection “Nine Acres” on Wednesday at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. The reading will begin at 9:30 p.m. The event is free and open to the pub­lic. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 












CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
HIGH 61 LOW 53 
HIGH 54 LOW 34 
HIGH 42 LOW 31 

HIGH 46 LOW 37 
HIGH 56 LOW 44 

Tuesday, November 8, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Group defines priorities, creates subcommittees 

By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council (CLC) identified student safety, student activities and expanding inclusion as its top priorities for the remain­der of the academic year during Monday’s meeting. 
Members divided into three subcommittees based on these priorities. 
Chief of staff Claire Sokas said the safety of students living both on and off campus remains an im­portant issue. 
“There needs to be a discussion of how we make students more aware of the responsibilities that come with living off campus,” she said. “We also need to work on some changes to make our cam­pus more safe.” 
Rectors said they would like to see a decrease in student apathy when it comes to student activities. 
O’Neill rector Ed Mack said he has noticed a large decrease in the number of his residents attending pep rallies during his 10 years as rector. 
“It’s not too soon to start talking about next year,” he said. “If you want students to show up [to pep rallies], you have to do things that are student-friendly.” 
Morrissey rector Fr. Ronald Vi­erling said he would like to look at the possibility of streamlining the processes that are required by the Student Activities Office (SAO) when planning events. 
“Our residents have great ideas for events and it is often difficult to implement them, so they get discouraged and say, ‘Forget it,’” he said. “We want to inspire and unleash their creativity.” 
Vierling said he believes that students don’t completely under­stand all of the things they have to do to in order to make an event happen. 
“Even as a rector, I don’t under­stand the process myself,” he said. 
Student body president Pat Mc­Cormick also announced the Fac­ulty Senate, which typically elects two members to serve as repre­sentatives on CLC, has waived their participation this year. 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 

Mock trial competes at UCLA 

By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame Mock Trial team sent teams to the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) this weekend for its first competition of the year, and members said they performed well despite tough competition. 
The team, which is bro­ken down into four smaller groups for competition pur­poses, sent its top two teams to UCLA for an invitational competition against 18 oth­ers. 
Junior Lauren Dugas, trea­surer of the team, said the team performed respectably. 
“It’s at a national level, so it’s pretty stiff competition,” she said. “We did okay for our first competition [of the year] at this difficulty level.” 


Although the team partici­pates in invitational competi­tions throughout the fall, senior co-president Stephen Payne said these contests do not count toward the team’s overall performance at the end of the school year. 
“Our actual competitions start in February with regionals and then it goes on from there to ‘su­per regionals’ and then the na­tional championship in April,” he said. “Before then the invitational tournament are sort of like a pre­season, just practice.” 
Dugas said the competitions consist of four rounds, two in which the team acts as the pros­ecution and two in which the teams acts as the defense. 
“You go through the entire court proceedings, opening state­ment, direct and cross examina­tions of the prosecution witness­es, direct and cross examinations of the defense witnesses and clos­
ing arguments,” she said. 
Three judges score the trials, 
awarding up to 10 points for 
each individual aspect, Dugas 
said. The team with the most 
points at the end of the trial wins 
that particular ballot. 
Sophomore team member Al­
lie Soisson said the team pre­
pares for the competition by at­
tending two classes a week with 
their professor Will Dwyer, a 
lawyer from Chicago. 
“We also work on our own in­
dividual parts and collaborate in 
team practices on what we think 
needs the most work,” Soisson 
said. 
Soisson said the competition 
this weekend at UCLA was dif­
ficult. 
“The California schools tend 
to be some of the best schools in the country and the competi­tion was very strong there,” she said. “I think we were all hoping to do very well but everyone was impressed by the teams we were able to see there.” 

Despite the high level of compe­tition, Payne said the tone at the invitationals is more casual than that of competitions in the spring. 
“When you get to the competi­tions that start counting, I think some of the rounds we get pretty intense,” he said. “Obviously it’s part of the activity because it’s like you’re putting on a court case.” 
Payne said Notre Dame’s rela­tionship with other teams varies. 
“Some times you may have some rivalry with and other teams you might be very friendly with,” he said. “Regardless I’d say the at­mosphere can get pretty tense.” 
For some of the team members, like Dugas, mock trial serves as a preparation for future careers in law. 
“I did mock trial in high school and then I joined the team fresh­man year thinking I might want to go into law,” she said. “Since then, I’ve continued with the or­ganization and my education and I’ve realized it’s something I want to do.” 
However, Payne said many oth­ers participate in mock trial for reasons other than preparation for law school. 
“It’s really valuable in terms of practicing public speaking and making an argument,” he said. “Some people in the program certainly don’t want to go to law school, they just enjoy it.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at                          mflanag3@nd.edu 
Poetry 
continued from page 1 
the Yale Younger Poets Award and Girmay received the Isa­bella Gardner Poetry Award. 
Following installments held at Georgetown University, Ma­calester College and the Uni­versity of Arizona, the show­case will conclude at Notre Dame in 2013. 
“When it comes to here, it will be a two-day event with a reading and discussion,” Vazquez said. “It will be col­laboration between the Cre­ative Writing program at Notre Dame and undergrads who will have the opportunity to listen to these poets and ask questions.” 
Vazquez said Aragón hoped to create a dialogue between the poets and their audience. Aragón will guide the conver­sations at each installment over the next two and a half years as a representative of the ILS and the University. 
“Aragón also worked with the PSA to generate online dis­cussion,” Vasquez said. “We’re not just trying to bring audi­ences to the poets. We want the thing to take on a life of its own.” 
The poets hope to reach sev­eral audiences through the showcase, Vazquez said. 
“I think it goes without say­ing that the general impact is not only for people in higher education,” he said. “Poetry, especially this new poetry, is meant to be visible to any­body.” 
Contact Nicole toczauer at           ntoczaue@nd.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEwS Tuesday, November 8, 2011 

Euro 
continued from page 1 
1717. 
“It seems to me that even if the euro falls tomorrow, you can wait a few years and there will be another attempt [at a fixed exchange rate],” she said. 
One of the benefits for countries to have a fixed ex­change rate is trade opens up. However, there are also huge downfalls, Guisinger said. 
“One of the things my re­search tells us is that there are some benefits to fixed ex­change rates, and there are some definite costs,” she said. “One of the major costs that people recognize is that coun­tries with a fixed exchange rate are far more likely to have a financial crises.” 
While the fixed exchange rate of the euro has had some short-term success, Guisinger said that Europeans would continue to pay for this fixed exchange rate in the long run. 
Finance professor Jeffrey Bergstrand said the euro-zone is a centaur, like the half-man, half-horse creature from Greek mythology. 
“I draw that analogy be­cause, we’re in a Greek crisis and I feel very much that is to think as the eurozone as a centaur,” he said. 
He went on to quote from an Economist article and said the eurozone is a hybrid, a single currency with 17 dif­ferent national fiscal and eco­nomic policies. 
“The formal construct of the eurozone is the economic and monetary union,” he said. “One thing to keep in mind there is there is no mention of the word fiscal.” 
He said one of the largest problems facing the eurozone is fiscal policy. One of the re­quirements to belong to the eurozone is annual budget deficits cannot be more than three percent of the gross do­mestic product. However, the average deficit is currently four percent. 
Contact anna Boarini at  aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

State Dept. stalls foreign student job program 
Associated Press 
JACKSON, Miss. — The State Department put a freeze Monday on expansion of a program that lines up summer jobs in the U.S. for foreign college students, citing persistent complaints about young people getting ripped off and ex­ploited. 
At issue is the J-1 visa program, which began in 1963 as a way to encourage cultural understanding by allowing young adults from oth­er countries to spend their sum­mers living, working and traveling in the U.S. 
Nearly a year ago, The Associ­ated Press reported numerous abuses, including cases in which students were put up in shabby, crowded apartments and forced to work grueling hours at back­breaking, menial jobs for $1 an hour or less. Some ended up going to homeless shelters for food or a place to sleep. At least one woman told the AP she was beaten and forced to work as a stripper in De­troit in 2005. 
The State Department, which oversees the program, said Mon­day that is it limiting the number of future participants to this year’s level, or about 103,000 students, and that it has temporarily stopped accepting any new “sponsors” — companies that help students ar­range for visas and find jobs and housing in return for a fee. Most of the abuses have been blamed on unregulated, third-party labor brokers who work with the stu­dents, but critics say the sponsors have done little to protect them. 
In the meantime, the State De­partment said, it is taking a closer look at the program’s regulations. 
Under the program, foreign stu­dents are granted visas for up to four months and often land jobs at hotels, resorts and restaurants. Participation has boomed from about 20,000 students in 1996 to a peak of more than 150,000 in 2008, and roughly 1 million for­eign students have taken part in the past decade. 

High school seniors visit SMC 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 

In an attempt to make the college application and se­lection process easier, Saint Mary’s welcomed 42 pro­spective Belles and their parents to campus for Senior Preview Day Monday. 
“What makes this day dif­ferent than a traditional col­lege visit is the girls actually get to spend the whole day with a student,” Director of Admissions Kristin McAn­drew said. “They get to spend four or five hours on a one­on-one basis with a current student and attend classes within their interests.” 
During Senior Preview Day, the prospective stu­dents shadow a current Saint Mary’s student. The parents of prospective students also have a unique day, filled with events to help them prepare their daughters for college. 
“The parents actually par­ticipate in a mock admis­sions committee,” McAn­drew said. “We break them up into groups and they review three mock applica­tions. It allows them to see the other side of the table and see what it’s like to be in our shoes.” 
According to Vice Presi­dent of Enrollment Man­agement Mona Bowe, Saint Mary’s has received about 500 applications so far this year. They will begin the process of application review right after Thanksgiving. 
“Right now, most of our ad­missions counselors are still out on the road, going to high schools and college fairs,” Bowe said. “After Thanks­giving, the admissions com­mittee begins to review ap­plications and we will start sending out early acceptance notifications around Dec. 1.” 
Anna Berglund, a prospec­tive student from Mattawan, Mich., said Saint Mary’s is currently one of her top choices for college. 
“I like Saint Mary’s. I like the old buildings,” Berglund said. “I came today because I wanted to go to classes and see what it’s like to spend the day on campus.” 
Senior Preview Day also gives prospective parents the ability to check out campus, as well as learn more about financial aid, academic pro­grams and study abroad op­tions. 
“Our daughter is consider­ing Saint Mary’s because it is a smaller school and she wants to go into music edu­cation,” prospective parent Camille Higdon said. “She’ll get more individual atten­tion and be closer to the fac­ulty.” 
The religious aspect of Saint Mary’s is another draw for both parents and stu­dents alike. 
“In this day in age, we as a family believe a religious-based education is impor­tant,” prospective parent John Tentrick said. 
Some students will return to campus this coming Sun­day for the Fall Day on Cam­pus. 
“It is a more traditional open house, with sessions on financial aid, study abroad,” Bowe said. “Some profes­sors also teach classes, so students can attend a mock class.” 
Contact anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


Tuesday, November 8, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 

Mayor 
continued from page 1 
here, and there are some people who still seem to think Studebaker is going to come back some day, but it’s not. So it’s going to have to be small businesses, green businesses, businesses dealing with the computer age that will pro­vide those jobs.” 
Colwell said students should take an interest in the city’s economy, even if they do not plan to stay in the immediate area after graduation. 
“If they take an interest in some of the economic devel­opment efforts or some new firm coming in, maybe they could, if they are looking for a job, end up in one [through those connections],” Colwell said. 
If elected, Colwell said But­tigieg would be able to work well with administration and students from Notre Dame. 
“He’s 29 years old, so he’s not that far away from col­lege students that he doesn’t understand college students and their lifestyle,” he said. “So I would think he would have a very good relationship between the new mayor and Notre Dame.” 


Buttigieg grew up in the South Bend area, and he is the son of professor Joseph Buttigieg in the University’s English department. 
A young mayor with favor­able attitudes toward Notre Dame is a greater opportu­nity for cooperation between South Bend and the Univer­sity, Colwell said. 
“I think [students] are tak­ing a little more interest in things and trying to commu­nicate with the city officials and trying to form commit­tees to do that, and I think that’s good because they can make clear they aren’t just saying, ‘We want to be able to do whatever we want to do and throw parties,’” he said. “It shouldn’t be an adversari­al relationship, but one of co­operation.” 
The 2011 race is the first since 1997 without current mayor Steve Leucke, a Demo­crat, on the ballot. Colwell said the Republican camp tra­ditionally does not present a strong challenge in the race. 
“It’s quite similar to past elections because the Repub­licans, with a few exceptions, have not really put up a strong contender, and some of the races have really been laugh­ers with the Democrat sure to win and the Republican not really putting up a fight at all,” Colwell said. “This time, the [Republicans] have put up a little bit more of a fight.” 
The tone of debate, how­ever, has been largely posi­tive despite Buttigieg’s place as the easy favorite, Colwell said. 
“It’s not been a divisive or nasty race at all,” Colwell said. 
The young candidate’s suc­cess should be an example for students looking at careers in politics, he said. 
“I think there’s tremendous potential for young candi­dates or young people to get involved in politics,” Colwell said. “In a lot of elections the turnout is pretty poor and they have trouble getting peo­ple to work at the polls and on the campaigns, so some bright young people who are willing to do that can step right in and have great posi­tions. Get a good start and go on to whatever they want, whether it’s mayor or Con­gress or whatever.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at                   mdoyle11@nd.edu 



page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, November 8, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

30’s lessons 
Every time Thursday night rolls around I can’t help but wonder: When will “30 Rock” finally return to NBC? 
Comedy night done right, as they call it, is simply not right without Liz Lemon, Jack Donaghy, Tracy Jordan, Kenneth Parcell, Jenna Ma­roney and the rest of the gang. 
I watched for five seasons as Liz hope­lessly tried to find love and have a baby despite her demand­ing career, but of course, as with any good comedy, the show isn’t all about Liz, and it definitely isn’t all about find­ing love. But for some reason everyone on the show manages to find someone, except for Liz. 
Jack, despite his undying devotion to GE, managed to find a woman who loves business as much as he does and they get married and have a baby girl, all before Liz even finds a stable boyfriend. 
Liz’s best friend and star of TGS, Jen­na Maroney, also finds love before Liz. Sure Jenna is in love with a drag queen who makes his living by impersonating Jenna herself and Cher, but hey — who’s to judge? 
The finale of season four is a hodge­podge of three different weddings on the same day. Liz attends the wedding of her ex-boyfriend Floyd, which is pain­ful of course because Floyd is the only normal person Liz ever dated up until that point. 
She also attends the wedding of the flaky but beautiful TGS assistant Cerie. 
She finally ends the night at the wedding of Grizz (a critical member of Tracy’s two person entourage) to his fiancée Feyoncé. 
In typical Liz Lemon fashion (always the bridesmaid, never the bride), she is in the wedding party of each ceremony. 
The point I’m trying to make here is that everyone on the show is just so much better at being in a relationship than Liz even though Liz is relatively stable, smart and incredibly funny. 
It’s clear that Tina Fey’s life experi­ence considerably shapes the character of Liz Lemon. As both the creator, head writer and actress who plays Liz, Fey has created a believable world based on her time as a writer at “Saturday Night Live.” 
It’s completely understandable that any semblance of a normal relationship goes out the window when you’re the head writer of a weekly comedy show that airs at midnight. Adding children to this weird mix would appear impossible. 
Fey explored this herself in the epi­sode titled “Do Over,” where Liz meets with an adoption agency evaluator played by Megan Mullaly. The interview does not go well, but even worse is the tour of the TGS studio. It seems entirely too hectic an environment to have a child in. 
And yet Tina Fey herself managed to find a way to balance a demanding job and having kids. She gave birth to her second daughter Penelope in August. 
Production for the sixth season of “30 Rock” was likely delayed because of Fey’s pregnancy, but they recently began filming in New York. 
There is still no date set for the season premiere, but any true fan will be will­ing to wait because they know that in waiting the true heroine of the show, Tina Fey, finally found a way to have it all. 
Contact Courtney Cox at      ccox3@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The Bro Code 
One of the goals of this column is to help create an environment where authentic, healthy relationships can flourish. As we continue on this jour­ney, it is necessary for us to examine the unique forces that influence, pre-Dr. G. David scribe and direct Moss our thoughts and actions, both overt-Dr. D @ ly and covertly. the GRC 
One such force is the Bro Code. It is a real presence in our campus culture and often pre-determines many of our social interactions. The Bro Code is a power­ful determinate in the quality of our relationships and has the potential to damage both the keepers of the Code and those left reeling in its aftermath. Recently, I asked our Student Sen­ate if they were familiar with the Bro Code. As expected, 98 percent of the men and only a small percentage of the women were familiar with the term. For a detailed description of the Bro Code with research to back it up, check out the book “Guyland: The Per­ilous World Where Boys Become Men” by Michael Kimmel. It is an excellent read. 
The Bro Code is founded on three cultural mandates: Entitlement, Silence and Protection. Entitlement is rooted in the ideas of male superiority; men are in control at all times and in all situations and always exhibit the perfect example of perfect manhood. It is also gives men the right to regain those things given up to society. 
As a man, society owes me for all of my sacrifices over time, and now my payback has arrived. Silence, accord­ing to Kimmel, is one of the ways boys are welcomed to manhood. This is true 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
when coming to terms with their own emotions, and especially true when faced with the violence of other men. Whether the violence involves mak­ing harassing statements at the Fro-Yo machine, acts of intimidation toward those outside the circle of coolness or taking advantage of an intoxicated female, the code of silence is in full force. No one confronts because no one wants to become the next person living outside the circle of coolness. 
Protection begins with peers, but can also expand to include parents, professors, city officials, girlfriends, university administrators, coaches and entire communities. Kimmel states that the cultural mandate of protec­tion is particularly evident when these support structures rally around “their guys” while “demeaning their victims.” 
Upon this foundation of entitlement, silence and protection, the Bro Code reigns unchallenged and insurmount­able. The specifics of the Bro Code can change depending on the particular community, but here are several con­sistent rules: 1) It is your right to have sex, and to do so as often as you like. 
2) Always upgrade your woman when you can. 3) You must never get in the way of a Bro who is attempting No. 1. 
4) Bros always before Hoes. 5) You will tell her whatever she wants to hear to achieve No. 1. 6) Never ask a women’s opinion about anything sexual. 7) If there is no sexual action after so many dates, it’s time to move on. 8) Men don’t cry. 9) Don’t get mad, get even. 10) Take it like a man. 11) Size matters. And the list continues. 
As men we have all heard these messages both explicitly and implicitly. The Bro Code preamble states that women want sex as much as men, and if not for them being “socialized” to say no, women would say yes to sex all the time. That being the case, it seems logical to use alcohol and/or date rape drugs to give them what they really want. 
To be fair, I must say that the Bro Code is not followed religiously by every guy on our campus. The Bro Code culture, however, is alive and well and I have witnessed it (as have many of you) first hand. I have seen it most obviously in the way many of us support the Bro Code by the silence of our actions. 
Kimmel states that guys do what they do in part because they believe they can get away with it, that other guys won’t say anything — and that the community basically will support them. Is this the new standard for Our Lady’s University? 
My guess is that we could severely weaken the grip of the Bro Code in this community if we shake the foundation of silence when bad things are about to happen. To those who are already committed to this effort, your sacri­fice and willingness to do the right thing is to be commended. Swimming against the current of culture is not for the faint of heart. But like geese who fly in formation, fish who swim in schools and cyclists who create a draft for those behind them, the burden is lighter when we work together. 
Dr. G. David Moss is the Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs and the Interim Director for the Gender Relations Center. He can be contacted at gmoss@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Absolute faith corrupts as absolutely as absolute power.” 
Eric Hoffer American writer 

WEEKLY POLL 

What’s the best part of Lafun? 
Starbucks Computer lounge Subway The basement 

Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 


Tuesday, November 8, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
A new way to review 
It’s that time of year to pick classes again. After worrying about your DART time and dreading the inevitable small talk with your academic adviser that will result when you pick up your pin number, you start browsing the class John Zielinski search site and plan­ning out your sched-Web ule for next semester. Apprentice But what if the class is hard or the professor is terrible? You only want the best college experience possible, after all. 
So you fire up your computer and likely cruise on over to NDToday.com or some other site and hope to find semi-decent reviews on your future teachers. But they are so hard to find! What little reviews that are up there are dated or don’t provide very good information. Then you wonder if the information on all those CIFs everyone filled out last year might be available somewhere, which they are (cif.nd.edu), but they kind of suck. Good review questions and data modeling would make too much sense. 
Notre Dame: There is a better way to find reviews on classes and professors. A few Notre Dame seniors have come up with ReviewND.com, and it is going to change how you pick classes and so much more. 
Want to find out which professors will keep you on the edge of your seat, strike fear into your heart or lull you to sleep? Interested in finding out about the hot­test bars and clubs around campus? Looking for the best local grub at qual­ity restaurants close by? Want to make sure you are using a quality taxi com­pany that won’t rip you off? Looking for advice on internships or where to travel for your next big spring break trip? 
ReviewND is the place where you can get the dish on everything related to college from the people that know first hand. Your classmates are your best resource for finding out the best experiences in college, so why not go to a place where all the information is stored in one spot? Get the reviews for professors, classes, trip destinations, entertainment and more, all specific to your school and commented on by your classmates. 
Reviews on ReviewND.com are com­prehensive. You review not only the professor, but the class itself. Reviews can be broken down by expected grade and major and can be easily searched by professor name or class code. 
ReviewND isn’t just about academic reviews, either. The site will feature reviews on students’ past internships, spring break destinations, taxi com­panies, local restaurants, off-campus housing, dorms and local bars. Get real, honest feedback on things you care about. Knowledge is power, opinion is everything. ReviewND.com has A-Z Re­views for Everything Related to College. Sign up today and write reviews so we can make this an awesome site for the Notre Dame community to use for years to come. 
Also check out DormTickets.com, a site where goods and services can be advertised for sale and exchange. Brought to you by the same team behind ReviewND, it is 10 million times better than the classifieds on insideND and 10 million times less sketchy than Craig­slist because only Notre Dame students and faculty can use it. Post your unused tickets, old furniture, used text books, electronics and anything else that isn’t bolted to your dorm room floor with ease. Items are broken down by type, making it easy to find good bargains in your own dorm or around campus any time during the school year. If you can think it, you can buy or sell it on DormTickets. 
All these services are absolutely free to use and will remain that way because making students’ lives easier doesn’t have to come with a price tag. Let’s make the world a better place, one useful web application at a time. 
John Zielinski is a senior majoring in electrical engineering. He can be reached at jzielin2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Dancing in the moonlight 
Has the redundancy of the weekend dorm party mode finally got to you? Do you want to be able to have an actual conversation with that interesting girl or guy without shouting? Want to make 11/11/11 special? Then gentlemen, the time has finally come to impress the ladies with your dancing prowess (and we’re not talking about swaying back and forth monotonously.) 
The semi-annual Swing-Ballroom Formal, themed “Dancing in the Moonlight,” has finally arrived. It will be held this Friday, Nov. 11, in the Stepan Center from 9 
p.m. — 1 a.m. Here, you will get the space to move any­where about the dance floor to much more than music blasting out of speakers. That’s right: The main upgrade from last year is the arrival of DJ Kevin Guy to the for­mals. He is the mainstay for the Notre Dame ballroom competitions, so he can play all the swing and ballroom music to our heart’s content. 
Now some may question, “What if I’m not in either club?” Anybody is welcome to this event. It only costs one dollar if you are not a due-paying member; for due-paying members, it’s free. Also, this is a formal in attire, not bring-a-date formal. I’ll be there stag for one, so any girl looking to cha-cha, rumba, waltz, swing, foxtrot, etc, you know you’ll definitely have a lead for that. And for all you boyfriends, this is the way you get classy without breaking the bank. (For expensive, you want that Tippe­canoe Place, absolutely delicious.) 
So girls, throw on that breath-taking dress, and guys, dust off your dress shirt and tie and come on out to the Swing-Ballroom Formal! Stepan Center, 9 p.m. — 1 a.m., 11/11/11. 
Junior Swing-er and Ballroom-er, 
Joshua Gaston 
junior Siegfried Hall Nov. 7 


Bring back the rallies 
Please, please, please bring back pep rallies to Notre Dame. Yes, there is still an event on Friday nights that goes by this name, but pep rallies have been gone from Notre Dame for years. 
I remember my first pep rally at Notre Dame as a freshman in 2002. It was Ty’s first game. The sound was deafening. The JACC was packed, standing-room only. The energy was palpable. It was a great experience for the students and team, but even this memory pales in comparison to descriptions of the old, legendary pep rallies in the field house or Stepan that were players, band and students only. 
What happens now on the Irish Green is a con­trived, poor excuse for a rally of any sort. Any energy that is summoned drifts off quietly into the Michiana air. It’s almost always cold, you can barely hear what is being said and it’s never loud. It’s not the students’ fault for not coming, it’s the decision to put a pep rally that should be in the most exciting environment possible, in the least. 
A pep rally should be designed to pump up the team and students. I really doubt you would have a single player tell you they get pumped for the games by the pep rallies. Ask any student or alum what the most exciting pep rally of the last five years has been, and every time the answer is the one in Stepan. 
Why are the pep rallies held here? I hear that it drums up business for the Eddy Street Com­mons. I hear that it prevents anyone from being turned away. But what good is a pep rally that can accommodate everyone if it’s an energy-draining affair, rather than inspiring? I can say confidently that I would be happy to never be able to get a spot in at a pep rally the rest of my alumnus life if I knew that the students, band and team were having a rowdy, raucous affair that brings them together and, heaven forbid, actually excites the team. 
Andrew Romano 
alumnus Class of 2006 Nov. 6 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, November 8, 2011 


By LAUREN CHVAL In “Goblet,” she has this 14-year-Scene Writer old wizard competing in deadly tasks with 17- and 18-year-olds. Now that “Goblet of Fire” was published when I’m old, I laugh a little at the idea of a I was nine. Up until that point, I had freshman in high school doing every-been playing catch up with J.K. Row-thing Harry does. In the earlier books, ling — I finished one book and then Harry was described as scrawny, and started tracking down the next, either when I think back to the boys I started by adding my name to the waiting list high school with, many of them were at my school’s library or pestering my laughably shorter than I was. To pic-mother to buy it for me. Book four, ture a 5’4”, scrappy 14-year-old stand-however, was the start of the waiting ing alongside fully-grown men and process that would stretch through my women in competition is also laugh-adolescence. able — but at the age of nine, I had no 
I finished “Prisoner of Azkaban” doubt that Harry could do it. Rowling and then started the wait. “Goblet” instilled that certainty in me. She had hit shelves in the early day of July faith in the abilities —physically, men-that preceded my turn through fourth tally, and emotionally — of the young grade, and I was more impatient for children to whom she was writing, and that book than the approaching days that made them have faith in Harry of school-less sun. I woke up just as it and themselves. It was, perhaps, this was getting light outside and waited brand of Rowling’s own magic that some more — both for my mother to made her young hero’s tale. wake up and for the bookstore to open. The fourth book was the right time 
I remember that morning was sunny to reaffirm that belief in the strength and breezy. We were there when the of young people, because it coincided store opened, and I quickly found my with the point when Rowling’s story treasure on the shelves. Harry Potter took a dark turn. Voldemort returns. mania had not yet reached its peak in It is something the books lead up to, the pre-movie-franchise era, so there but at the time I was as surprised as was no fancy storefront display. Just any of the characters. As Fudge says, a beautifully illustrated cover nestled he just couldn’t be back. A wizard who among the other books. had caused so much damage the first 
Mom would only buy one copy — for time around that people in the pres-my brother and me to share. There ent still wouldn’t speak his name was was a little bit of tussling in the back-back, and neither Rowling’s charac­seat on the way home as we fought ters nor I knew what that would mean. over not only who got to read it first, From that moment on, Harry was but also who got to hold it and admire thrust into a world where he wasn’t that swirling pastel cover. just famous for the horrors of his past, 
Inspired by our painful wait, we had but famous for the horrors he would decided ahead of time to only read a endure as a real person. A huge scale chapter a day. The 37 chapters would battle was about to erupt around put us 37 days closer to the release of someone immensely powerful and a the next book. teenager — someone close to my age. 
I can safely say that my time read-I was scared for Harry, like Dumb­ing “Goblet” was the height of my love ledore, Hermione, Sirius, the Weasleys, of reading. I took in every word with and others readers alike. I thought he care and painstaking attention. When was outmatched. But I never thought, I finished my daily chapter, I would “He’s just 14, he can’t handle this.” go back over the parts I liked or try By then, Rowling had assured to work through hints the book left me that he could and he would. She me. I marveled in the language and showed me that neither dreams nor the character quirks that had become problems could be too big for teenag­familiar to me now, as if I were read-ers to handle. And I would never forget ing about the definitive traits of real that. people I knew. As he heads back to a summer with 
Even now, rereading the book, it the Dursleys, Harry says he will face amazes me the power Rowling has to things as they come. And so would invoke emotion from her readers. Rita we, both in our troubled adolescent Skeeter’s articles enraged me at the lives and in our magical worlds. When age of nine and left me just as furious I closed that book 37 days after first at the age of 20. One of “Goblet’s” main holding it in my hands, I couldn’t have messages — that someone’s age should known it would be almost three years not lead you to underestimate them — before Rowling blessed me with Har­is perhaps one of the main reasons ry’s next tale. By then, my patience Harry Potter was so successful. Even had snapped, and there was no hope though Harry’s stories are written for of only taking in a chapter a day. children, Rowling does not talk down to them. Contact Lauren Chval at lchval@nd.edu 

LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 


Tuesday, November 8, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

By CARRIE TUREK 
Scene Writer 

Baby, it’s cold outside! With Hallow­een in the rear-view, and with Thanks­giving fast approaching, it is prime time to break out the Christmas tunes. With the Oct. 24 release of “A Very She & Him Christmas,” Zooey Deschanel and M. Ward are just in time with the Christmas cheer. 
It seems that FOX’s “New Girl” has become the current “it girl.” Zooey De­schanel is a Jill-of-all-trades. Not only is she a seasoned actress, known for roles in “(500) Days of Summer” and “Yes Man,” but she is also a talented singer. As one half of the quirky indie-pop duo, She & Him, Zooey Deschanel is making waves in all areas of enter­tainment. 
Observant viewers may first noticed Deschanel’s vocal abilities when she sang “Baby It’s Cold Outside” in the modern Christmas classic, “Elf.” She is back — this time with singer/songwrit­er M. Ward — warming hearts with a new interpretation of the same song, and 11 others. 
She & Him began as a “no strings at­tached” collaboration between Descha­nel and Ward. The two began working together in a simple attempt to produce Deschanel’s soulful and honest lyrics. The acclaim of their first album led to a strong fan following and more than hopeful reviews. 
Ward explained his collaboration with Deschanel on their website: “Zoo­ey would write and I would produce and arrange. It’s been the most natural extension of our interests and abili­ties.” 
Their interests and abilities are sure­ly wide and wonderful. Ward’s bibliog­raphy is as extensive as Deschanel’s, including seven full-length albums, the most recent of which was released in 2009 (“Hold Time”). In addition to his solo-work and his involvement with She & Him, Ward is also a part of Mon­sters of Folk, a group comprised of M. Ward, Conor Oberst and Mike Mogis (both of Bright Eyes) and Jim James (of My Morning Jacket). Like Zooey De­
schanel, M. Ward’s presence in the in­die music world is wide-reaching and still growing. 
“A Very She & Him Christmas” was released as the third album for She & Him, containing classic Christmas songs revived and refreshed. Drawing on She & Him’s classic, quirky charm and channeling the tones of musicians like The Carpenters and the Beach Boys, “A Very She & Him Christmas” adds a new twist to traditional holiday songs. 
Staying true to She & Him’s instru­mental style, present in both “Volume One” (2008) and “Volume Two” (2010), Deschanel’s piano and ukulele-play­ing abilities are showcased alongside Ward’s guitar and organ-playing tal­ents. They project a comfortable, in­timate charm onto classic songs like “I’ll Be Home for Christmas” and “Sil­ver Bells.” The addition of the ukulele, partnered with Ward’s rich low tones and Deschanel’s jazzy energy some­how manage to lend a tropical, on­the-beach feeling to otherwise wintry songs. Deschanel inserts a playful and contagious curiosity into these Christ­mas classics, compelling listeners to reconsider and reflect upon already well-known lyrics. 
Unlike She & Him’s previous two albums, Ward’s vocals are featured prominently on “A Very She & Him Christmas.” His voice is surprisingly smooth and a lovely accent to Descha­
nel’s endearing vocal quality. The har­monies produced in “Sleigh Ride” and its upbeat tempo, coupled with the gui­tar and slight reverberation, produce a classic Christmas song nestled nicely between now and yesteryear. She & Him’s indie roots lead to a multitude of brief guitar solos interspersed among the requisite jingle bells. 
As only the quirky Deschanel can, She & Him transforms sometimes ex­pected and overdone holiday tunes into fresh tracks, complete with a child-like, wondering interpretation of lyrics and light harmonies. Adding to the appeal of “A Very She & Him Christmas” is the donation that She & Him will make to 826 National with the purchase of each album. 826 National is a non-profit organization dedicated to providing services in writing to underprivileged children ages 6-18. 
A Very She & Him Christmas is a treat for She & Him fans and Christ­mas lovers alike. Deschanel’s sweet voice and Ward’s strong, expressive vo­cal and instrumental support combine to produce a cheer-evoking feeling and an exciting Christmas mood, perfect for these almost-chilly November days. 
Contact Carrie turek at cturek@nd.edu 

Release Date: Oct. 24, 2011 Label: Merge Records Key Tracks: “Baby It’s Cold Outside,” “Sleigh Ride” and “I’ll Be Home for Christmas” 

By ANKUR CHAWLA 
Scene Writer 

One of the most touted restaurants in the Notre Dame area, J.W. Chen’s is hardly a well-kept secret. Nestled be­tween Ari’s Grill and a Papa Johns, it is quite possibly the best Chinese food in the South Bend-Mishawaka region. 
Admittedly, the first impressions when walking in were far from great. The décor, while 99% classy, appropri­ately themed, and tasteful, was marred by a giant cardboard bubble tea cutout overlooking the register that seemed a little out of place. There is very lim­ited seating to accommodate the high volume of alumni, students and locals, and even less room to stand and wait to be seated (my friends and I were forced to wait in the awkward area between the two sets of double doors). Then, once finally seated, we were in a combination of leather, old-fashioned, wheeled office chairs, and the wooden chairs one would find at south dining hall. 
Once seated, though, the meal was phenomenal. We started with a round of hot tea that was the perfect reme­dy for the overstated cold South Bend weather. Though we avoided appetiz­ers, our table was served an order of Almond Shrimp on the house, which ironically happened to be the best dish we had. One wouldn’t expect quality or tasty seafood in the Midwest, but even those of us from the coasts loved the shrimp. Crusted with sliced almond pieces and in a pool of sweet almond ginger glaze, there’s little else to say to describe its deliciousness. 
Moving to our actual dishes, we were each asked to give our spice tolerance on a scale of 1 to 10. Being my bold, fearless, and sometimes unintelligent self, naturally I said 10. As the owner laughed and said, “We’ll see about that!” I waited in fear for what they might bring. She had recommended the Ginger Chicken after hearing I liked spice, so I went along and ordered the dish. It came, covered in red chili pow­der and freshly sliced jalapeños, look­ing quite daunting. Still, don’t worry readers, I muscled my way through it, and aside from the moment I thought I could handle eating the peppers straight up I didn’t break a sweat. 
Other noteworthy menu items in­cluded foremost the Ma Pa Tofu (tofu with a spicy sauce); despite being un­der the PORK heading on the menu it is in fact vegetarian, spicy, and deli­cious. The shrimp with lobster sauce, despite having a distinctive egg flavor in it, was also quite good and the sauce went particularly well with the moun­tain of sticky rice served at each table. Even the Fu Na Chicken (chicken with spicy black bean sauce) was well worth it, as there was truly not a dish I tried that wasn’t thoroughly enjoyable. 
Like I mentioned before, J.W. Chen’s is not unknown to most of the Notre Dame community. But, for those of you who have, like myself, overlooked it to instead order from Golden Dragon be­cause of ease and convenience, I chal­lenge you to try J.W. and I’m sure you will not be disappointed. At the very least, you can admire the statue of a cat holding its paw up sitting on the ca­shier’s table. 
Contact ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 

Where: 1835 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN Contact: (574) 271-2777 More information: www.jwchens.com 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLaSSiFiEDS Tuesday, November 8, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

A Magic moment 
“But life goes on,” he said. 
Twenty years ago yester­day, Lakers star guard Earvin “Magic” Johnson held one of the most shocking press con­ferences in sports history, an­nouncing his retirement while revealing he was infected with HIV, a socially-shunned illness at the time. 
The comforting, illuminating smile that Magic had displayed for the entire previous decade had vanished, replaced by a blank stare into the horde of confused reporters. His athletic prowess had been marginalized, a footnote to his life on November 7, 1991. 
The three-time Most Valu­able Player that had just posted averages of 19.4 points per game and 12.5 assists per game in the year before was now an HIV patient. He was not a superhero anymore. He 


wasn’t even Many people — shocked, Yes, people 
a basketball still — were afraid of were scared. player any-Magic now. They were But now, they more. He was were more 
scared to touch him, to 
a dead man aware, more 
be associated with him, 
walking now. informed, 
to do anything with him. 
For people more careful, 
But help came from one of 
in Los Ange-more con-
the most unlikely sources: 
les that day, scious that 
it was an bitter rival and Celtics this disease I-remember-forward Larry Bird. was real and 
while Bird was the stoic, pri­vate Hick from French Lick. 
They battled in the NCAA championship as Spartans and Sycamores. They battled in the NBA as Lakers and Celtics. They even battled on camera while pitching different Con­verse shoes (not surprisingly, Johnson’s were a flashy white pair while Bird’ were a plain black set). 
But the pair that had com­bined for eight NBA champion­ships in nine years suddenly became closer. They started to become friends instead of being rivals. Their mutual re­spect for each other had blos­
somed into a relationship. That had to have been just as shocking as Magic’s initial announcement was. 
To have your greatest rival, your bitter foe, come support you in a time of need was 
utterly incredible. Magic was just that lovable. 
Magic was so lovable that he has changed the entire culture surrounding HIV. What was largely thought of as a “gay disease” was now mainstream. People thought to themselves, 
“If it hap­pened to Magic, it can happen to anyone.” 
exactly-where-I-was­and-what-I­was-doing moment. 
My dad was in Anaheim that day on a business trip, setting up a table at a convention. He was surprised. The mood around the center was stunned. 
I was not even alive yet. But even I know where my dad was. It was just one of those moments. 
Many people — shocked, still — were afraid of Magic now. They were scared to touch him, to be associated with him, to do anything with him. But help came from one of the most unlikely sources: bitter rival and Celtics forward Larry Bird. 
The duo had, in their words, hated each other. They were the same player on the court 
— creative, hard-working and popular — but off the court, they were vastly different. Johnson was the fun-loving college kid from Michigan not discrimi­
natory to­
ward certain 
populations. 
That simple 
change in connotation has probably done more for awareness and research for the disease than the multitude of dollars that he has raised for the cause. 
Johnson has found a suc­cessful gig on television as a talking head on TNT dur­ing the NBA season and has continuously and tirelessly worked as an advocate for AIDS awareness. He has raised millions of dollars for AIDS research while also changing the social connota­tion of HIV. 
And so, life has gone on. With plenty of Magic. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MEN’S INTERHALL 

Strong defense lifts Alumni 6-0 
Sorin edges out Carroll, Siegfried remains undefeated with win 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
In the first round of the playoffs, No. 7 Alumni upset No. 2 Keenan in a defensive showdown. 
The Dawgs (3-2) were in a stalemate with the Knights (4-1) until the fourth quar­ter, when senior running back Dan Dansdill punched in a 1-yard touchdown run to gain the lead. 
“Keenan owned the first half,” Dansdill said. “We made some adjustments [in the second half] based off what they were giving us.” 
With windy conditions, Alumni focused on running the ball for most of the game. Dansdill tallied 65 yards rushing for the Dawgs. 
“We controlled the ground game,” Dansdill said. “We just wanted it more in the trenches.” 
While both defenses forced turnovers throughout the game, Alumni sparked its offensive production late in the fourth quarter. Af­ter running for most of the game, freshman quarter­back Tyler Barron ran a play action pass and completed a fade route, bringing Alumni down to Keenan’s one-yard line and leading to the only touchdown of the game. 
For Keenan, it was a dis­appointing ending to an un­defeated regular season. 
“It’s tough, I feel bad for our seniors,” junior quar­terback Andrew McDonough said. “We all wanted to send them out with a champion­ship and we failed in doing that.” 
The Knights struggled to get things going offensively, as the Dawgs limited their offense to 120 total yards while forcing three turn­overs. With two minutes left in the game, the Knights had one last chance to score, but gave the ball up while run­ning a hook-and-ladder. 
Overall, though, a lot of good things came out of the season for the Knights, Mc-Donough said. 
“It stinks to go out this way but we had a good season,” he said. “I wish Alumni good luck the rest of the way and we’ll be cheering for them.” 
Keenan’s season is over, but Alumni will look to con­tinue its success this week­end in the second-round of the playoffs against No. 3 Sorin. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 

Sorin 10, Carroll 7  and I can’t say enough about  
them.”  
By JAMES SOUTHARD  Sorin will take on No. 7  
Sports Writer  Alumni this Sunday.  
In an emotional contest full  Contact James Southard at  
of big plays and huge stops, a  jsouthar@nd.edu  
single field goal made the dif­ 
ference as No. 3 Sorin edged  
No. 6 Carroll on Sunday.  Siegfried 14, Stanford 7  
The Otters (4-0-1) rallied  
behind their rock-solid pass- By SCOTT FRANO  
ing offense and a strong de- Sports Writer  
fensive effort to oust Carroll  
(2-2-1) from the playoffs. Ju- David had Goliath on the  
nior quarterback Ted Spinelli  ropes Sunday, but Goliath es- 
threw the go-ahead 55-yard  caped for a last-second vic­ 
touchdown to senior wide re­ tory.  
ceiver Brett Leahy.  Down 7-6 with mere min- 
Sorin junior Connor Wathen  utes to play, No. 1 Siegfried  
kicked the game-winning field  drove 77 yards to set up a  
goal despite a set of downs  1-yard touchdown run from  
that included two sacks for  junior running back David  
Carroll.  Whitmore. Whitmore ran for  
“It feels great to be on the  35 of the drive’s 77 yards. A  
road to victory again,” So- two-point conversion made  
rin junior wide receiver Ryan  the final score 14-7, as No. 8  
Robinson said.  “We overcame  Stanford had almost no time  
some hiccups in our offense  to respond.  
and played a good game.”  Siegfried (5-0) started  
The Sorin defense main- the game well, as Whitmore  
tained its composure all game,  scored on a 5-yard run on  
continually pressuring the  the game’s opening posses- 
Carroll offensive line. A late  sion. But the extra point was  
tackle for loss in the fourth  blocked, and a howling wind  
quarter resulted in a big Car- made it hard for either team  
roll loss, and a Robinson inter- to move the ball effectively.  
ception proved to be of utmost  Stanford (2-3) took the lead  
importance to the team. in the fourth quarter on a  
 “We started off in our  40-yard pass from freshman  
special ‘Leahy defense’ and  quarterback Charlie Fiessing­ 
played out of our minds,” Rob- er to junior receiver Jim Wa­ 
inson said.  clawik. The extra point made  
Carroll’s season came to an  the score 7-6 in Stanford’s fa- 
end, despite a herculean effort  vor.  
marked by defensive intensity  Siegfried came up with its  
and heart.  On the Sorin drive  second game-winning drive in  
that resulted in the winning  two weeks, wrestling victory  
field goal, Carroll had a goal  away at the end. Whitmore  
line stand and forced the of- said his team became more fo­ 
fense back nearly 10 yards  cused once Stanford took the  
before surrendering the field  lead.  
goal.  The defense also came  “We really had to get it go- 
away with two interceptions  ing,” Whitmore said. “We  
on the day, a product of an ex- played well on the first drive,  
cellent pass rush.  and then we were sloppy.  
“Our defense really played  When we’re down it drives us  
a great game, seeing as they  to play better.”  
really contained the running  Senior defensive end Mike  
game, and with the excep- Dineen admitted to being a  
tion of the long touchdown  little nervous after Stanford  
pass, they allowed just three  took the lead, but said he had  
points,” junior captain Keith  confidence in his team.  
Marrero said.  “You always get a little ner- 
The Vermin scored with just  vous, especially in interhall  
20 seconds left in the first half  when you don’t have a lot of  
after a 16-yard touchdown re- time,” he said. “It was a re­ 
ception by Marrero tied the  ally good wake-up call, like a  
game.  However, the team nev­ boxer getting punched in the  
er completely recovered from  face. I was a little nervous, but  
a missed field goal that would  I had confidence in my team to  
have tied the score.  come out and do it.”  
“I thought we played a great  Junior linebacker Steve Oli­ 
game, and I’d like to give our  va said the playoff loss was a  
seniors a shout-out, including  good learning experience for  
Mitch Speer, Nick Tammerine,  his young team.  
and Kent Liederbach,” Marre­ “We’re a team with only  
ro said.  “Great game by Sorin,  
 
they played a heck of a game,  see OLIVA/page 12  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FOR SALE PERSONAL Livin On a Prayer by Bon Jovi She says: We’ve got to hold on to We’ve got to hold on to what we’ve what we’ve got Tommy’s got his six string in hock got ‘Cause it doesn’t make a Now he’s holding in what he used ‘Cause it doesn’t make a 
Tommy used to work on the docks difference To make it talk - so tough, it’s difference UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t Union’s been on strike, If we make it or not tough If we make it or not go it alone. Notre Dame has many He’s down on his luck, it’s tough... We’ve got each other and that’s We’ve got each other and that’s 
Vintage rock albums (over 2000) resources in place to assist you. So tough a lot Gina dreams of running away a lot asking $900 for all, individually by If you or someone you love needs For love - we’ll give it a shot When she cries in the night For love - we’ll give it a shot the book. confidential support or assistance, Gina works the diner all day Tommy whispers: Baby it’s okay, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 Working for her man, she brings Ohh We’re half way there someday Ohh We’re half way there Kenneth 269-277-2788 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more home her pay for love... Woah Livin’ on a prayer Woah Livin’ on a prayer information, visit ND’s website at: For love                Take my hand and we’ll make it - I Take my hand and we’ll make it - I swear swear http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu Woah Livin’ on a prayer Woah Livin’ on a prayer 
Tuesday, November 8, 2011 The Observer u SPortS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Defense propels Howard to 13-6 upset over Ryan 
PW edges past Welsh Family in overtime, McGlinn blanks Farley in blowout win, Cavanaugh advances 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
No. 7-seed Howard utilized its strong defense to slow down second-seeded Ryan and earn a 13-6 upset in the quarterfinals Sunday. 
“Our defense is what got us into the playoffs, and it is what helped keep us in the playoffs,” Howard senior receiver Kristyn Jeffries said. “However, our of­fense had a great energy that it hasn’t had in the past, and it made a difference.” 
Howard (3-4) set the tone early on defense, holding Ryan (6-1) to three-and-outs on its first two possessions and forc­ing the Wildcats to use their lit­tle-used punt team. The Ducks then broke through for the first score, as junior quarterback Katharine Mack found Jeffries on a 40-yard touchdown pass that involved Jefferies evading two Ryan defenders. The rest of the half was marked by strong defensive production, as both teams were forced into two turnover-on-downs apiece. 
Howard found the end zone again on its first drive of the second half, overcoming three penalties to score on a five-yard touchdown pass from Mack to junior receiver Laura Coletti. Ryan followed with a touchdown drive of its own off an impressive 31-yard catch by sophomore receiver Mad­die Swan and then scoring on a one-yard touchdown pass from junior quarterback Maya Pillai to Swan. After stopping Howard on its next possession, Ryan had one last chance for the win, but the Wildcats’ drive was thwarted just a few yards from the end zone, giving How­ard the victory. 
Ryan put forth a strong of­fensive effort, but it was held in check by Howard’s defense, scoring its lowest point total on the season. 
“Howard certainly had a great defense,” Swan said. “Still, I think we just didn’t ex­ecute as well as we usually do.” 
Despite the early exit from the playoffs, Swan was proud of the Wildcats’ success this sea­son. 
“It was an unbelievable sea­son,” Swan said. “We are going to come back strong next year.” 
For now, though, Howard marches on to the semifinals, putting the team in line for a third straight trip to Notre Dame Stadium. 
“This victory will build some great morale for our team, since we came in as underdogs and did exactly what we needed to do,” Jeffries said. “The mo­mentum from this win will pro­pel us into next week’s game.” 
Howard will play No. 6 seed McGlinn next Sunday in its quest for a third straight cham­pionship game. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
PW 13, Welsh Fam 12 
By JONATHON WARREN 
Sports Writer 
In a come-from-behind over­time victory, No. 5 seed Pas­querilla West upset No. 4 seed Welsh Family 13-12 to secure a spot in the semifinals Sunday. 
“I feel amazing. We played to the last minute,” Pasque­rilla West junior quarterback Kirsten Danna said. “I’m really proud of how our team per­formed tonight.” 
The Purple Weasels (5-2) tied the game at 6-6 with less than two minutes remaining. Danna passed to sophomore receiver Rachel Rogers for the 15-yard touchdown. A failed conver­sion attempt sent the game into overtime. 
“We made some adjustments in the second half on offense,” Danna said. “Once we did that, we were able to get more pro­duction.” 
In overtime, Danna scram­bled for a four-yard touchdown on the first possession. The converted extra point — a pass from Danna to Rogers — made the score 13-6. 
Welsh Family junior quarter­back Vicky Moreno responded with a six-yard touchdown run of her own, but the Whirlwind failed the extra point attempt, ending the game 13-12. 
“Our defense performed fantastic,” Danna said. “They picked up on all the long throws, and they really helped us out at the end.” 
Pasquerilla West is hoping this is the beginning of a cham­pionship run through the play­offs. 
“This momentum is huge for us, but we still have to get to [Notre Dame Stadium],” Danna said. “We want to get there and win, after being there the past two seasons.” 
Welsh Family (4-3) strug­gled on offense in the second half and was forced into three three-and-outs. One of the Whirlwind’s top receivers, se­nior Charlotte Seasly, was in­jured midway through the sec­ond half. Seasly caught the first touchdown and had 53 yards receiving in the game. 
“We’re really upset,” Welsh Family senior receiver Natalie Baldasare said. “We played our hearts out, and it just didn’t happen for us tonight.” 
Baldasare ended the game with 33 receiving yards. She remained positive about the success the Whirlwind had this season. 
“We had a great run this year,” Baldasare said. “I wish we would have gone farther, but I’m proud of how hard we worked.” 
Though Welsh Family’s sea­son is over, Pasquerilla West continues to the semifinals Sunday, where they’ll meet No. 1 seed Cavanaugh. 
Contact Jonathan warren at jwarren3@nd.edu 
McGlinn 20, Farley 0 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
A first half offensive explo­sion and a stellar defense were keys for McGlinn as the No. 6 seed posted a 20-0 quarterfinal victory over No. 3 seed Farley. 
Shamrocks senior captain and quarterback Lauren Mill­er was dominant in the win, throwing for 161 yards and two touchdowns while running for 43 yards and another score. 
“[My receivers and I] have a lot of good chemistry that we’ve built up throughout the whole season,” Miller said. “It showed today. We played with a lot of confidence and our game plan worked out to perfection.” 
After trading opening pos­sessions, the Shamrocks (5-2) struck first, with a one-yard quarterback sneak midway through the first half. 
Farley (5-2) looked to answer quickly, but was thwarted by a stiff Shamrock defense, giving the ball back to McGlinn with less than two minutes remain­ing in the half. 
Miller completed consecutive 12-yard passes before finding freshman receiver Emma Col­lis on a long 47-yard pass for a touchdown with only 38 sec­onds left on the clock. 
Not content with a 12-point lead going into halftime, Mc­Glinn’s defense came up with another stop, giving the Sham­rock offense one last play be­fore the half ended. Miller took full advantage of this, finding junior receiver Caitlin Day in the back of the end zone on a 35-yard touchdown pass as time ran out in the first half. 
“We were able to get the deep ball working late in the first half,” Miller said. “Both of those plays were really great plays by the receivers. They made a couple of big catches.” 
Farley tried to answer back in the second half, but was con­sistently stopped by a strong Shamrock defense. Despite the loss, Farley senior captain Analise Althoff still was able to take positives from the game. 
“We had a great season and we had a lot of fun,” Althoff said. “We played a good game. Sometimes things just don’t go your way”. 
Farley’s season is now over, while No. 6 seed McGlinn will take on No. 7 seed Howard in the semifinals. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 
Cavanaugh 18, Lyons 6 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
With three passing touch­downs from senior quarter­back Rebecca Cink, top-seeded Cavanaugh prevailed over No. 8 seed Lyons 18-6 to advance to the semifinals. 
The game started out as a defensive struggle, as the ball changed hands five times with­out a point scored. However, an interception thrown by Lyons (3-4) deep in its own territory gave Cavanaugh (7-0) a short field. The Chaos took advantage of this golden opportunity and scored on a 16-yard touchdown pass from Cink to senior receiv­er Brittni Alexander. 
The score remained 6-0 heading into halftime as the defensive battle continued. Ly­ons had difficulties advancing the ball against Cavanaugh’s stifling man-to-man defense, gaining only two first downs in the first half. Cavanaugh, meanwhile, couldn’t contain Lyons’ defensive pressure, as Lyons racked up four sacks in the first half. 
But on the first play in the second half, Cavanaugh broke the game open with a 65-yard touchdown by Alexander. The touchdown came on a designed catch-and-pitch, when Cink completed a five-yard pass to junior receiver Erica Chenard, who then pitched the ball to Al­exander. 
“I just happened to get by the two girls that were there and I was wide open,” Alexander said. “I had good blocks and I just marched it down the field.” 
Later in the game, after a time-consuming six-minute drive, the Chaos reached the end zone on a 12-yard touch­down from Cink to sophomore receiver Colleen Pelletier to go up 18-0. 
While the Lyonites needed at least two scores, they never gave up.  Senior quarterback Kat Rodriguez drove the ball down the field and completed a 14-yard touchdown pass to se­nior receiver Caroline Maroney with 13 seconds remaining. 
While it was not the desired outcome for the Lyonites, they were still satisfied with their season, Rodriguez said. 
“What Lyons did this year, having never won any games two years before and [making] it to the playoffs, makes me so proud of the girls,” Rodriguez said. 
With its season on the line, Cavanaugh was thrilled to get the victory, Alexander said. 
“We scored three touchdowns and did all we could do,” Alex­ander said.  “I’m super excited to get to the second round.” 
Lyons’ postseason run has ended, but No. 1 seed Cavana­ugh will look to continue its quest to play in Notre Dame Stadium when they face No. 5 seed Pasquerilla West next week. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
Couri 
continued from page 13 
came fatigued in the third round, Couri maintained her control in a more even final round. 
In a convincing fight, Couri defeated Kareh by unanimous decision. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
By ERNST CLEOFE 
Sports Writer 
Tegan “Long Hair Don’t Care” Chapman def. Kirby “Super Smash” McKenna 
Chapman, a junior, showed toughness by pulling out the decision after having difficul­ties in the first round. McK­enna, a sophomore and a pho­tographer for The Observer, started the match with an aggressive approach by stay­ing close to Chapman. With the distance between the two shortened, McKenna capi­talized by breaking through Chapman’s guard with short jabs. 
After the first round, Chap­man’s changes in strategy lead to the victory. Keeping a strong, tight stance, Chapman took advantage of the counter against McKenna’s aggres­siveness in the second round. 
Then, Chapman sealed the win with a strong third round. In what was a close match, the in-match adjustments proved to be key with Chapman re­ceiving the unanimous deci­sion. 
Catherine “Dizzy” Gillespie def. Kasia “The Polish Pun­isher” Prouty 
In an intense matchup, the junior Gillespie fought a strong all-around match. Prouty, a graduate student, started the first round in an aggressively, forcing Gillespie to spend much of the round on defense. 
After the first round, Gil­lespie started to take advan­tage of the aggressiveness by focusing on the counter. As Prouty kept throwing punch­es, Gillespie was selective and picked opportune times to throw solid punches. 
In the third round, Prouty seemed to tire, while Gil­lespie finished the match out with a strong, consistent third round. Gillespie won the match in a unanimous deci­sion. 
Sarah “I’m Not a Commu­nist” McCarthy def. Edie Graham “Cracker” 
McCarthy’s constant pres­sure proved to be overwhelm­ing in a match that ended early on referee’s decision. From the start of the first round, the sophomore Mc­Carthy delivered one punch after another. She connected on strong combinations that forced the referee to give the senior Graham the count twice in the first round. 
On the first exchange of the second round, McCarthy set the tone for the round by land­ing a strong right hook. Mc­Carthy continued to land solid punches and Graham could not establish any rhythm. 
The third round was a con­tinuation of the aggressive strategy from McCarthy, in­cluding two right hooks and the straight jab that forced the referee to call the match half way through the third round. 
Karina “Matadomer” Lizzi def. Maria “La Peligrosa” Lynch 
The last fight of the night featured two seniors in an en­ergetic matchup. Lizzi came out of her corner swinging, forcing Lynch to the edges of the ring. Lizzi then capitalized on Lynch’s lack of options. 
In the second round, Lizzi continued her aggressiveness. She kept Lynch off-balance and forced her to keep moving around the ring. 
In the third round, Lynch tried to make a quick come­back. Keeping up a strong guard, she began to counter attack to negate Lizzi’s ag­gressiveness. 
In the end, Lizzi’s strong two rounds gave her the unani­mous decision. 
Contact Ernst Cleofe at ecleofe@nd.edu 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPortS Tuesday, November 8, 2011 
SMC SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Belles suffer consecutive defeats over weekend 

By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
The Belles dropped two meets over the weekend. They fell to Hope 173-98 Friday at the Rolfs Aquatic Center and at Division I Valparaiso 137-66 on Saturday. 
Belles coach Mark Benishek said the team competed hard, but they were up against strong competition over the weekend. 
“We had some tough runs,” Benishek said. “We went back-to­back meets against tough clubs. We really have our sights set on some of our upcoming meets, es­pecially Wabash and Calvin in the next couple of weeks.” 
Against Hope, Belles senior breaststroker Audrey Dalrym­ple brought in three first-place finishes. She topped her Fly­ing Dutch competition in the 100-breaststroke (1:10.78), the 200-breaststroke (2:31.54) and the 200 IM (2:18.15). 
Despite the loss to Valparaiso, the Belles had strong perfor­mances from their senior lead­ers. Dalrymple came in first in the 100-meter breaststroke with a time of 1:12.24. She also came in second in both the 200 IM and the 400-medley relay. 
Benishek said he was happy 
Dyer 
continued from page 16 
just kind of a jubilant person, and I like to sing,” Dyer said. “I guess I do sing, but it’s not like when I’m in the room I’m just like ‘laaa.’ I will just break out in song when I feel like it.” 
Rolfs Aquatic Center occa­sionally plays music on the un­derwater speakers, something Dyer enjoys at practice. He said the women’s swimming team is responsible for creating the playlist, which received his stamp of approval. 
Also a fan of HGTV and Trav­el Channel, Dyer is pursuing a career in business entertain­ment, with particular dreams of working behind the scenes of one of his favorite television shows. 
Dyer’s infatuation with the Food Network has created a food critic in the swimmer, who said he enjoys critiquing meals prepared by different restau­rants. He offered his own anal­ysis of the food in his nearest kitchen, North Dining Hall. 
“Obviously the things pro­duced on Food Network look more delicious than the food at North [Dining Hall],” he said. “Every time I watch the Food Network, it always makes me hungry. North is fine, it’s just not the Food Network.” 
The 6-foot-4-inch former basketball player from Albany, N.Y., said he has a new appre­ciation for his father’s home-cooked meals. 
“My dad makes really good baked ziti. I really like rigatoni noodles with melted mozzarella cheese on top,” he said. “Actu­ally, they always use ricotta cheese on “Chopped,” and I ab­solutely hate ricotta cheese. It’s the grossest thing. It must be some texture thing; I just don’t like it. [There is] no ricotta cheese in the baked ziti my dad makes, and that’s really, really good.” 
with the performance of his seniors, who have been consis­tently bringing in points for the Belles all year. 
“Our senior leadership has been a strong point all year. [Se­niors] Katie Donovan, Megan Price and Audrey Dalrymple all had strong performances over the weekend,” Benishek said. “Their senior leadership has been great, and they have backed it up with strong swims. We know we can always count on them for motivation.” 
Donovan picked up two second-place finishes in the 200-freestyle with a time 
2:05.73 against the Crusaders and 2:05.70 against the Flying Dutch. 
The Belles also had a strong performance from Freshman Anna Nolan. Nolan finished sec­ond in the 50-freestyle (26.75). She notched a pair of second places in the 100-backstroke over the weekend in 1:06.24 Friday and 1:06.39 Saturday as well. 
The Belles will host Defiance College on Saturday at 1 p.m. at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Joe wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
In the pool, Dyer impressed all of his teammates and coach­es last year with a record-set­ting freshman season. He cur­rently holds the school record for the 100, 200 and 500-yard freestyle races. 
“[Last year’s seniors] were very, very good, and I kind of learned quietly, just did what I was told and kept a positive at­titude,” Dyer said. “We have a goal sheet every year, and my goal time was to beat [the 500­yard freestyle record]. Not that I didn’t think I was going to do it, but I was just kind of shocked when it really happened. I had been looking forward to it for so long, and when goals like that actually happen, it’s a really good feeling.” 
Aside from the occasional “pump-up” music underwater at Rolfs, Dyer said he motivates himself by maintaining a posi­tive attitude even during chal­lenging days at practice. 
“I don’t think people know that swimming, it’s just like the worst sport ever to do because it’s hard all the time, and prac­tices are just brutal,” he said. “It’s physical and mental all the time. It’s so easy to hate the sport, but you can’t hate it be­cause if you’re at this level, you have to love it to some degree because it’s what you do.” 
Offering fans the secret to his success, Dyer said that he has discovered the breakfast of champions. 
“I definitely like to make my own omelets in the dining hall,” he said. “[I add] tomatoes, ba­con, green peppers and cheese, except I can’t make omelets, so I just make scrambled eggs. I put them in in the make-your-own­omelet line, except I just scram­ble them up because I can’t flip an omelet.” 
Dyer and the Irish will return to the pool Saturday at Louis­ville at 1 p.m., and he will be in concert with Halftime on Dec. 8. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
Oliva 
continued from page 10 
three seniors,” Oliva said. “We’re glad we made it this far. Being a No. 8 seed, we really wanted to win, but they just played a little harder than us.” 
Stanford’s season is over with the loss, while Sieg­fried advances to face No. 5 Dillon this Sunday. 
Contact Scott Frano at sfrano@nd.edu 
Dillon 10, Knott 0 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
No. 5 Dillon advanced to the second round of the playoffs after winning a 10-0 defensive scrum against No. 4 Knott. 
The Big Red (4-1) were powered by a stout de­fense that held Knott (3-2) to three first downs and only 38 yards of offense. In addi­tion to forcing two turnovers on downs, the Dillon defense had three takeaways. Two came in the form of intercep­tions by junior captain and defensive back Will Salvi. Salvi also broke up a pass on fourth down late in the fourth quarter, giving the ball back to the Big Red. 
“On all three plays we were in deep coverages,” Salvi said. “They kept trying to go long, and I was just in a good position to make some plays.” 
Dillon scored on its second drive of the game when ju­nior kicker Matt Enzweiler connected on a 34-yard field goal. From there, the two de­fenses dominated the game. 
In the fourth quarter, Big Red junior running back Terry Howard scampered 50 yards down the left sideline to make it 10-0. 
The Big Red will face top-seeded Siegfried next week. To get a win over the top seed, Dillon knows it needs to improve its offense. 
“We were very sloppy on of­fense,” Salvi said. “We really have got to work on that [for next week]. Against Siegfried, we can’t be one-dimension­al. We need to have balance within our offense.” 
The Knott offense struggled to find a rhythm, plagued by penalties and turnovers. 
“Offensively, we just didn’t take care of the ball,” Knott senior captain Dan Shaf­fer said. “I lost count of how many times [we fumbled].” 
The Juggerknotts had three turnovers in addition to five fumbles they recovered. De­spite the end result, Shaffer was happy with how the team played. 
“We really tried hard,” Shaffer said. “It was a good game to end on, minus the loss aspect of it. [Dillon] is a good team.” 
Knott’s season is over while Dillon will face Siegfried (5­
0) this Sunday in the semifi­nals. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


Tuesday, November 8, 2011 The Observer u SPortS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
was essentially a standstill, the third round. The crowd a few punches of her own. In To start the first round, the 
Fights 

with both fighters trading a cheered loudly as the two a unanimous decision, Mon-senior Moore came out with 
series of jabs. Wloszek began boxers exchanged punches. temarano won the bout. more energy and was landing continued from page 14 the round as the more ag-Walsh gained control and numerous punches. Moore had 
gressive fighter, but Miller forced Fernandez into a defen-Anna “The Maine-Iac” Car-Raderstorf, a junior, backed Katie Mayka “Girl Cry” def. emerged to take the offensive sive position to end the round. mack def. Kate “Milwaukee against the ropes. Ashley “Big Girls Don’t Cry” later in the round. Walsh grabbed the victory by Bruiser” Maternowski Raderstorf countered in the Taylor Miller turned the tables split decision. Maternowski, a law student, second round, connecting on 
Mayka started the fight by her way in the second round started the fight throwing a some strong punches, and she piling on hits to Taylor’s body though, moving Wloszek into Emily “Shake N Bake” Baker lot of hard, well-aimed punch-seemed to be in control of the and head during the first the corner and landing a se-def. Cathy “The Cannon” es but Carmack, a sophomore, second frame. round, using her longer reach ries of powerful uppercuts to Cichon had a good counter-attack and Moore came back in the to help her to a unanimous de-Wloszek’s body. Baker began the first round fought the punches off well. third round swinging wildly cision victory. with a fury of punches to Carmack took control of but landing many. Raderstorf 
In the second round, Mayka Contact Brian Hartnett at Cichon’s stomach but Cichon the fight in the second round, struck home a few times but continued with her strategy, bhartnet@nd.edu responded quickly, delivering backing Maternowski into the was on the defense most of the but Taylor responded with a blows to Baker. ropes twice. Maternowski was round. Moore, in a split deci­few of her own punches. By JONATHAN WARREN After a first round that saw on defense for much of the sion, was declared the winner. 
In the third, Taylor went Sports Writer the two sophomores trade round but did make a serious on the offensive, but Mayka punches, Baker dictated the connection on a few punches. Contact isaac Lorton at gained her composure back in Kat “astrophe” Leach def. pace and position of the sec-In the third round, Car-ilorton@nd.edu spite of the attacks. With her Alicia “The Texas Hammer” ond round. She delivered a mack clinched the fight when longer arm reach, Mayka was Danto well-timed combo punch to she threw a right hook that By PETER STEINER able to succeed and win the The junior Leach and the Cichon in the frame. Despite knocked out Maternowski’s Sports Writer fight in unanimous decision. senior Danto traded punches Baker’s punches, Cichon did mouth guard. Maternowski 
evenly throughout the first not back down and continued tried to stage a comeback af-Erin “Killer” Kilmurray def. Tori “I’ll Make You Pay” round, but Leach’s right hook to land punches of her own. ter the short delay but was Claire “Won’t Spare Her” White def. Shannon “The Col-at the end of the round gave Baker took advantage of unable to beat Carmack, who Pursley lider” Hughes her the advantage. In a fast-a slower Cichon in the third won on a split decision. With a consistent effort 
Lefty Tori White came out paced beginning to the second round, controlling from be-throughout all three rounds, with strong uppercuts and round, Leach utilized her long ginning to end. Baker took the Stany “The Bulgarian Beast” the sophomore Kilmurray pre­took control of the first round reach to string together com-match by unanimous decision. Sevova def. Alyssa “Topp vailed in a unanimous deci­in impressive fashion on her bo punches. Midway through Dogg” Topping sion over the junior Pursley. way to a unanimous victory. the round, Danto suffered a Jen “KO” Coe def. Liz “Big Coming out on fire, the ju-Both fighters started with 
White continued to be on bloody nose and received med-Gurl” Garvin nior Sevova landed many a furious pace. As the jabs the offensive against Hughes ical attention. The early seconds of the punches, and forced the se-slowed to a steadier rate, how-in the second, landing a num-Leach controlled the first round belonged to the sopho-nior Topping against the ropes ever, Kilmurray appeared to ber of big shots and causing a seconds of a third round that more Garvin who landed quick throughout the first round. hold the advantage.  Although stoppage. was interrupted twice to treat punches on the senior co-Topping was put on defense Pursley and Kilmurray trad-
More of the same continued Danto’s nose injury. The refer-president Coe. Coe responded early, where she remained the ed punches throughout the in the third, as White caused ee ultimately called the match by pushing Garvin back into whole fight. match, Kilmurray was able to another stoppage due to her before the end of the round, the ropes with her hits before Sevova, again in the second land more solid punches to the strong punches and won by and Leach claimed the unani-landing multiple powerful round, came out strong and head. unanimous decision. mous decision. combo punches on Garvin. controlled the round. Halfway A strong push by Pursley 
The second round ended through the round, Sevova in the final seconds was not Contact Brandon Bell at Natty “Light on Her Feet” where the first left off. Coe landed a right jab that left enough as Kilmurray claimed bbell2@nd.edu Baldasare def. Grace “In controlled the round, which Topping dazed. the victory. 
Your Face” Spaulding had to be broken up by the ref-After the convincing perfor-By BRIAN HARTNETT Utilizing her speed and eree midway through. mance in the first two rounds, Elizabeth “Doncha Want Sports Writer strength, the senior Baldasare In the third round, Coe con-Sevova finished off strong, Some” Moore def. “Little 
started this match aggressive-tinued to deliver punches to never relinquishing control of Orphan” Annie Shepherd Julie “Outta My Mind” Saxer ly. The junior Spaulding, how-Garvin and was on the offen-the fight. Sevova was unani-After an even battle through def. Megan “Don-a-tronk” ever, adjusted to Baldasare’s sive the entire round. Again, mously selected as the victor. three rounds, the junior Moore Doyle attacks, and the pace of the the referee had to break up and her attacking style over-
In this battle of juniors, Sax-round slowed. the action. Gina “I’m Not Sorry” Rogari came the sophomore Shep-er set the tone early, coming Baldasare began the second Coe won the match by unan-def. Dana “Think Outside the herd. out aggressively and throwing round with two well-placed imous decision. Box-ing” Spencer Moore was always the first some strong punches in the punches into Spaulding’s In the first round, both fight-fighter into the fray, but Shep-first round. stomach. Spaulding respond-Contact Jonathan warren at ers came out aggressively and herd consistently landed coun-
Doyle, who the News Editor ed with more energy and con-jwarren3@nd.edu maintained even status in the terpunches to keep the match for The Observer, came back trolled position throughout ring. But in the second round, close. to assert herself in the second the second round. Baldasare, By ISAAC LORTON the sophomore Rogari took After a solid second round round, forcing Saxon into the however, continued to get hits Sports Writer complete control of the fight. by Shepherd, Moore came out corner on one occasion and on Spaulding from a defensive She landed punch after punch strong and connected on a big pushing her to the ropes at position. Anne “Fluffykins” Conover and had the graduate student hit that caused a stoppage by another point. Baldasare controlled the def. Colleen “Nine Lives” Spencer up against the ropes the referee. 
Doyle continued to put Saxon third round and won the Kerins three times. After gaining the upper hand on the defensive at the start of match unanimously. The first round began with Rogari continued with her in the third round, Moore won the third round, nearly caus-both fighters coming out fierce attack and dictated the the match in a split decision. ing her to lose her balance Grace Welte “Maker” def. Jill strong and landing punches third round. Partway through, with one punch. However, Sax-“Just Jill” Giunco early. The junior Conover end-the fight had to be stopped to Amanda “Bringing the Pain” on asserted herself by fending The sophomore Welte set the ed the first round with a solid check and see if Spencer could Pena def. Emma “Irish Eyes” off many of Doyle’s punches tone for the match with a pun-right jab right before the bell continue. She fought hard af-O’Brien and putting up strong enough ishing first punch to Giunco. tolled. ter coming back, but was un-In her first appearance in defensive fronts to earn her-Welte’s speed caught the junior After ending the first round able to fend off Rogari, who Baraka Bouts, the freshman self a victory by unanimous off-guard, as she was knocked on a good note, Conover came with a unanimous decision. Pena beat the senior O’Brien. decision. back in the first round. Giunco out with an aggressive attack While O’Brien continuously 
regained composure only for and was relentless. The sopho-Melinda “The Most Mali-advanced on the newcomer, Hannah “The Animal” Skin-Welte to deliver a final blow to more Kerins had to be on the cious” Macia def. Wenona Pena returned fire with a fury ner def. Rachel “The Ringer” the jaw, ending the round. defense for most of the second “Not So Nice” Brice of punches towards the head Wright Welte continued to get round but ultimately landed a The first round began with and body. This pattern con-
This intense match that punches in on Giunco in the few punches. Brice, a sophomore, coming tinued throughout all three would ultimately end in a second round. Giunco re-An intense Kerins came out out strong but Macia, a junior, rounds. split decision victory for Skin-sponded with well-executed in the final round but seemed finished the round in control. While O’Brien landed the ner began with a close first dodging techniques, but Welte to grow tired, and was unable Both fighters landed numer-initial punches, Pena connect-round. Wright came out with ended the round with a suc-to hold off Conover’s attack. ous punches, and it was a fair-ed with powerful headshots. some aggressive punches, but cessful three-punch combo. Conover won the fight in a ly even match. Both fighters used up their Skinner was able to land a few The referee ended the match unanimous decision. Macia controlled the second last energy in the third round body shots. before the beginning of the round until a left jab by Brice and Pena was victorious in a 
Wright kept up her inten-third round to name Welte the Dina “Is a Female Version of knocked out Macia’s left con-split decision. sity at the start of the second unanimous winner. a Hustler” Montemarano def. tact lens. Persevering, Macia round by starting on the of-Diana “I Choose You” Yu took out her right lens and Christina “Triplex” Couri fensive, but Skinner adeptly Jenny “Moves Like Jagger” The fighters both came out fought “blind.” Her natural in-def. Aurora “The Left Hook managed to evade several of Walsh def. Carli “Frank Lloyd energetically but Montemara-stincts must have been strong, Latina” Kareh her jabs, keeping the fight at Wright Hook” Fernandez no gained control of the fight because she fought hard after In a fight between two ju­a near-deadlock heading into In an even matchup that late in the first round and nev-the small delay and took con-niors, Couri proved too much the third round. came down to the wire, the er looked back. trol of the fight. for Kareh to handle. 
Skinner met success in the sophomore Walsh edged out Montemarano did not let up Macia was on the prowl in In the opening seconds third round, landing a few the senior Fernandez. in a second round that sent the third round. She relent-of the match, Kareh looked blows to Wright’s stomach. Walsh gained a slight ad-Yu into a blocking position for lessly attacked Brice landing strong, but Couri came roar-Wright threw some strong up-vantage at the end of the first nearly the whole round. Mon-the majority of the punch-ing back in the last half of the percuts, but Skinner was ulti-round with a slew of well-temarano landed a powerful es. Brice landed a few solid first round. mately able to fend off her at-timed punches. combination midway through punches but was unable to In the second round, Couri tack, giving her the victory in In the second round, Fer-the round, the punches taking overcome Macia, who went on continued her relentless at-a split decision fashion. nandez and Walsh traded a toll on Yu. to be the victor in a split deci-tack, backing Kareh into the 
punches throughout, leaving The third and final round sion. ropes and causing three stop-Sarah “It’s Miller Time” the match to be decided in the was a toss-up between the pages by the referee. Miller def. Beth “The She-final round. seniors. Yu came out with a Carleigh “The Homing Pi-Although both fighters be-Wolf” Wloszek Walsh landed a power-flurry of fists but Montemara-geon” Moore def. Rose “The 
The first round of this bout ful punch to Fernandez in no fought them off and landed Riveter” Raderstorf see COURI/page 11 
page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPortS Tuesday, November 8, 2011 
Brey 
continued from page 16 
ence with USA basketball was great. He’s on the Wooden list, he’s on every list, and right­fully so. And I think that has him extremely confident. We’re just going to bottle that for a week and pop the cork in Kansas City, I hope, and let it get going again. 
“He becomes a player-coach. I told him when I took him out ‘OK, you’re player-coach with me and you’re back on the blue [second] team — you haven’t been on the blue team since your sophomore year. But he’ll be the blue team captain, and he’ll be great in the role.” 
The Skyhawks kept things close at the start, but after they tied the game at 14 with just under 12 minutes to go in the first half, Notre Dame went on a 23-3 run, putting the game out of reach. Junior forward Jack Cooley, who was not in the starting lineup due to an academic infraction, scored the first six points dur­ing that stretch, finishing the game with 12 points and nine rebounds. 
Sophomore guards Alex Dragicevich and Jerian Grant each finished the game with double-digit points and Grant added nine assists in just his second career game in an Irish uniform. Brey said he saw a new comfort level from his young players. 
“I thought we were a little better, especially Grant and Dragicevich, who are talent­ed offensive guys,” Brey said. “With these young players, when they weren’t going good offensively, the other night and in practices sometimes, they wouldn’t concentrate de­fensively. I thought we had a better focus defensively, we worked harder, and eventu­ally shots came around and they made shots too. But that’s just the young players — most young players are like that, but hopefully they’ve learned something from this past week. Just dig in, you’re going to play. We need you out there, you’ve got to guard.” 
Senior guard Scott Martin missed his second straight game with an ankle injury, but Brey said he plans on having Martin back for Notre Dame’s first regular season game Saturday against Mis­sissippi Valley State. 
“I’m hoping we’ll have [Martin] back in practice on Thursday and we expect him to play on Saturday and be ready. He’s been shooting a little bit, and he’s certainly very important with [Abro­maitis] being out.” 
The Irish will take on the Delta Devils from Mississippi Valley State on Saturday at 2 
p.m. in the Purcell Pavilion. 
 Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
Victories 
continued from page 16 
Mathews great success as they defeated Stanford’s top-seeded Mallory Burdette and Nicole Gibbs in only two sets, 7-5, 7-6.  The win sent them into the championships on Sunday, where they faced USC’s Kaitlyn Christian and Sabrina Santa­maria. The pair won the initial set 6-4, but couldn’t keep in up for the rest of the match, and lost the second and third sets 6-4, 6-3 respectively. 
“Tennis is such a mental game and if you let off on the game plan for a few games that can totally change everything,” Frilling said. “I think at one point we relaxed a bit and did not play as aggressive, and in the end, that hurt us.” 
The loss left the Irish duo as runners-up in the tourna­ment overall, a title that Frill­ing earned with former doubles partner and now assistant coach Kelcy Tefft in 2008. Frilling said she is disappointed with the loss, but plans on using it as a learning experience heading into the rest of the fall season. 
“Going forward, I think Shan­non and I, first of all, have to put the loss in the finals behind us and learn from it,” Frilling said. “It was great to make it to the finals, but I think we know what we are ca­pable of and want to keep working hard to win every match we play.” 
Meanwhile in South Bend, the Irish grabbed seven more wins against Oklahoma. Sabacin­ski, Kellner and McGaffigan all claimed two-set victories, and overall the Irish claimed three out of five doubles matches. Sunday brought two easy wins for Kellner and McGaffigan, bringing both to a weekend record of 3-0. 
The Irish are next in action Fri­day at the Lakewood Ranch Invita­tional in Lakewood, Fla. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
Eckert 
continued from page 16 
a huge right punch in the second round. The South Bend native Laux had sizable crowd support, and clearly wanted the knockout to go along with her nickname. 
Eckert refused to go down, but Laux was granted the vic­tory by unanimous decision. 
Contact Scott Frano at sfrano@nd.edu 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
Tamara “TKO Win” Nguyen vs. Erin “The Exterminator” O’Brien 
Nguyen, a grad student, started the match with a flur­ry of punches, using a quick left jab that would continue to be her weapon of choice en route to a unanimous victory. 
O’Brien, a freshman, stood strong throughout the first frame and snuck in a combi­nation of punches in the cor­ner to conclude round one. 
The second stanza was even as Nguyen and O’Brien alter­nated shots to the head. The pace was noticeably slower, as neither boxer wanted to be left vulnerable to coun­ters.  Neither boxer was able to gain a definitive edge. 
Both women had their share of solid punches in the third round, with O’Brien again having success in the corner. In the end though, the expe­rienced Nguyen’s quick jabs were enough for her to collect a unanimous decision victory over the freshman. 
Brianna “BK” Kunycky vs. Alyssa “the Karate Kid” Casill 
A battle of juniors opened with both boxers delivering shots to the head, although both managed to deflect most of the punches. Kunycky took some aggressive swings, but Casill dodged the punches well. The bout was paused in the first round when a Kun­ycky punch left Casill bleed­ing. 
After the stoppage, Casill came out with a newfound fe­rocity, but Kunycky managed to block the punches and get in some strong counters of her own. Throughout the match, Kunycky was strate­gic in picking her spots. 
In the end, the first round wound continued to be a problem for Casill, and the referee awarded the victory to Kunycky after the second round. 
Molly “Motha Trucka” Allare vs. Claire “Bear” Ziemba 
The battle of Texas natives saw the evening’s first knock­down, as Cavanaugh fresh­man Molly Allare took down her opponent and ultimately earned a unanimous victory. 
The match started out with Allare and Ziemba holding absolutely nothing back. The boxers alternated punches, most of which were powerful headshots. As the first round wore on, Allare connected re­peatedly on a potent left jab. 
In round two, Allare deliv­ered a slew of jabs to Ziem­ba that resulted in a knock­down. Ziemba bounced right back up and threw some strong punches of her own that forced Allare to back off momentarily. 
The back-and-forth action continued in the third round. Allare eventually gained the upper hand, and the un­daunted freshman from Ca­vanaugh won by unanimous decision. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
Anna “The Husker Hammer” Heffron def. Maggie “Mag­a-tron” Wieland 
Wieland gained control of the fight early, using her strong right jab in the first round, but Heffron was able to turn it around en route to a unanimous decision vic­tory. 
In the second and third rounds, Heffron managed to come back. 
In the second round there was a back and forth ex­change.  Heffron took con­trol at first but then Wieland gained her composure and started firing back. 
In the third round, Heffron came out aggressive by using a strong left right combina­tion.  With a definitive victo­ry in the third round, Heffron gained a unanimous decision victory over Wieland. 
Michelle “Michelle Mi­chelle” Young def. Megan “Ferocious” Fuerst 
Young came out aggres­sively from the first bell, gaining a control that she would maintain for the en­tire match as the Cavanaugh junior powered through to a unanimous victory. 
In the first round, Young pummeled Fuerst with a flurry of body shots, causing a stoppage in the match. 
During the second round Young took a different ap­proach, utilizing a number of headshots that stunned Fuerst. Fuerst refused to go 
down  though,  keeping  her  
composure  throughout  the  
fight.  

Fuerst rallied at the end of the fight, but it wasn’t enough as the versatile Young won by unanimous decision. 
Cecilia “The Hero” Lero def. Maguire “The Boise Bull­dozer” Padley 
Lero and Padley fought a close match, but Lero man­aged to pull off the victory at the end by split decision. 
The first round consisted of an even exchange between the two fighters, but Padley’s height advantage seemed to be giving her a better reach. 
In the second round, Lero continued to throw jabs, and Padley responded with a few powerful punches that stunned Lero. 
With the fight still even go­ing into the third round, the two continued to exchange punches en route to a split decision victory in favor of Lero. 
Kaitlyn “The Bulldozer” Cole def. Kat “Burpees for Breakfast in Ma Deep Cut” Rodriguez 
Cole narrowly defeated three-time veteran and cap­tain Kat Rodriguez in a thrilling and emotional fight that got the whole crowd on its feet. 
Cole and Rodriguez ex­changed punches in the first round, as Rodriguez tried to land body punches while Cole managed to throw successful uppercuts. 
In the second round, anoth­er fast exchange led to Cole stunning Rodriguez with a right-handed hook. 
Despite nearly being knocked down again in the third round, Rodriguez fought until the end as the two went blow for blow. It wasn’t enough for Rodriguez, though, as Cole won in split decision. 
see FIGHTS/page 13 


Tuesday, November 8, 2011 The Observer u toDay ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


DAVID L. HOYT                              

EXPND JON REPINE JUMBLE 
AND JEFF KNUREK 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, November 8, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Another step on the road 
Abromaitis leads Irish to victory in exhibition game 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
Fifth-year forward Tim Abromaitis played only five minutes in the second half Monday night, but that was all the Irish needed to top Stone-hill 92-70. 
Abromaitis, who will sit out the first four games of the regular season because of eligibility issues, tossed in 17 first-half points, including nine from beyond the arc, and added six rebounds to lead the Irish to a commanding 20-point lead at the break. 
“I just think [Abromaitis] is so confident,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “With all the things he’s had in his career, and this summer experi­
see BREY/page 14 


ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Notre Dame captures at-large bid to NCAA 
Observer Staff Report 
It was a long couple of days between Notre Dame’s loss to Louisville on Friday and the announcement of the 64-team NCAA Championship field Monday. But now, the wait is over: They’re in. 
Despite Notre Dame’s (10­7-3, 6-3-2 Big East) 2-1 loss to the Cardinals in the Big East Tournament semifinals, the selection committee gave the Irish their 19th straight NCAA berth, and a chance to defend last year’s national champion­ship. 
“It’s definitely been a chal­lenging season for us, but we’re excited to be part of this year’s NCAA tournament,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said in a Monday press release. “We’ve had some anxious moments the past few days waiting for the bracket to come out, and in the end, we’re pleased to have the opportunity to defend our champi­onship on the field.” 
This year’s path to the College Cup may be the rockiest in recent memory as the Irish will face Big Ten Champion No. 18/13 Illinois on the road. The Illini (16-4-2, 8-2-1 Big Ten) are unbeaten in their last 11 matches. 
“It will be a test for us to go down there and play them at their place,” Waldrum said. 
Even if the Irish are able to get past the Illini, a likely second round matchup for Notre Dame would put them against No. 2 seed Oklahoma State, whose loss in the Big 12 Championship was the only blemish on their 19-1-2 record. 
But Waldrum and the Irish are focused strictly on their first match, and are thankful for the opportunity. 
The Irish will begin their quest for their first national champion­ship repeat when they take on Il­linois on Sunday. The teams will kick off at 2 p.m. 

MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Sophomore Dyer leads team with record times, personality 
By MEGAN GOLDEN kitchen. “Chopped” and the possibility says he is unafraid to share his Dyer admitted that he will Sports Writer Residing in Stanford Hall, of Dyer’s occasional commercial passion for music with others. sing along to a catchy pop song, Dyer and his five roommates break performances. “He really likes to sing,” especially if Rihanna’s “We 
Irish sophomore freestyle have developed a recent obses-Meanwhile, Dyer’s love for Dyer’s roommate and junior Found Love” comes on the loud swimmer Frank Dyer takes a sion with the Food Network. The music led him to join the on-swimming co-captain Chris speakers. step out of the pool between group of friends gathers around campus a capella group, Half-Johnson said. “That kid will “I guess when I’m around I’m setting records. Dyer also per-the television every Tuesday time, at the start of this school sing anything that he knows the forms on the stage and in the night for the latest episode of year. Anyone who knows him words to.” see DYER/page 12 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Senior pairing places second in NY event 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
The Irish found success in two locations with a split roster as se­nior captains Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews placed second in the ITA National Individual In­door Championship in New York and the rest of the roster battled in the Eck Tennis Classic at Notre Dame. 
Frilling and Mathews started off the weekend as the fifth seed in the round of 32 and claimed an easy 8-2 victory over Chelsey Gullickson and Lilly Kimbell of the University of Georgia to advance to the quarterfinals. While the doubles partnership only found success, singles play Thursday did not yield positive results for Frill­ing, who entered singles play as an at-large selection. 
Frilling fell to Zoe Scandalis from USC 6-4, 6-3.   Friday, the doubles pair took on Duke’s Bea­trice Capra and Ester Goldfeld in the quarterfinals. It took 13 games to reach a conclusion, with the Irish duo coming out on top 8-5. 
“I think everything we had been working on in practice finally paid off in the tournament this week­end,” Frilling said. “We played aggressive, solid, consistent dou­bles every match and I think that helped our confidence progress throughout the weekend.” 
Frilling then competed in the singles consolation bracket against Aleksandra Josifoska out of UNLV, but lost in straight sets 6-4, 6-4, eliminating her from singles com­petition. 
Meanwhile, the rest of the team began play at the Eck Classic, host­ed by the Irish. The team snatched seven victories in the day in both singles and doubles. Junior Chris­sie McGaffigan claimed the first win over Oklahoma’s Nicole Long 6-4, 6-3. Sophomore Julie Saba­cinski defeated Wake Forest’s Re­becca Siegler 7-5, 6-0 and sopho­more Jennifer Kellner snatched the victory from Wake Forest’s Ryann Cutillo. Sophomore Britney Sanders and freshman Katherine White both earned three-set victo­ries later in the day. 
Saturday brought Frilling and 
see VICTORIES/page 14 
BARAKA BOUTS 

Annual tournament begins 
By SCOTT FRANO 
Sports Writer 
Erin “Barney” Flattery def. Molly “Baby Bop” Russell 
In the first fight of the night, junior Flattery over­came a height disadvan­tage to take a split-decision victory over fellow junior Russell. 
Russell had a few inch­es on the smaller Flattery and got some solid punches in during the first round, while Flattery focused on defense. But in the final two rounds, Flattery adjusted by getting close to Russell, diminishing the influence of Russell’s reach. Flattery landed several blows that seemed to stagger Russell, but the Atlanta native hung tough. 
Flattery was given the win by way of a split-de­cision in an entertaining opening bout. 
Laura “Sunshine” Sem­eraro def. Lizzy “Hey Girl Hey” Millet 
Semeraro, a Welsh Fam­ily junior, earned a victory 



by unanimous decision over 
Millet,  a  Cavanaugh  fresh­ 
man.  
Semeraro  landed  some  

quick punches early in the fight, focusing on jabs with her left hand. Millet did well to keep each round fairly even, but it was clear that Semeraro had control of the fight from the beginning. 
Semeraro never outright dominated the fight, but she did more than enough to get the support of each judge, scoring the unanimous deci­sion victory. 
Michelle “Lights Out” Laux def. Lauren “Bringa Bringer” Eckert 
Laux, an off-campus senior, was too much for Eckert, a sophomore from Breen-Phil­lips, to handle, as Laux fought her way to a unanimous vic­tory. Laux attacked early and often, landing some big right hooks that staggered Eckert. 
Eckert did well to see the fight to its end despite ap­pearing a bit woozy at times, especially after Laux landed 
see ECKERT/page 14 






