
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


University athletes coach kids 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
What started out as a sim­ple pick-up flag football game between Notre Dame’s men’s lacrosse seniors and commu­nity children last year has now developed into the Irish Experience League. 
According to Director Kev­in Dugan, manager of Youth and Community Programs, the Irish Experience League is a free five-week program for boys and girls in the local community and is led by stu­dent athletes and volunteers. 
“The goal of the Irish Ex­perience League is to use the virtues of the five pillars of Notre Dame athletics - excel­lence, education, faith, tradi­tion and community -to pos­itively influence children,” Dugan said. “These are the key fundamental principles we shape our student-athlete experience around.  We want to impact as many young children as possible with the virtues inherent with these fundamental building blocks of success.” 
The league was a collab­orative event between the 

see ACE/page 5 


Students to ‘Raise an X for X’ 

By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
Tomorrow, thousands of stu­dents are encouraged to raise their arms in an “X” as a sym­bol of unity, strength and re­membrance. 
The “X” will honor Xavier Murphy, a fifth-year student and former resident of Zahm Hall who died Oct. 11 after a short battle with cancer. To­morrow would have been his 23rd birthday. 
Senior Daniel Duffey, a resi­dent assistant in Zahm and friend of Murphy’s, said the unified “X” is the perfect way to honor Murphy. 
“Doing [the ‘X’] for him is just a further symbol of exactly who he was.  It represents him, the dorm and our community standing together,” Duffey said. “Normally … everyone hates us for it, but this time it obviously means something more.” 
Corry Colonna, rector of Zahm Hall, said the Raise an X for X campaign began when Murphy was first diagnosed with leukemia in September. 
“We started this process be­fore he had passed away,” Col­onna said. “The goal was he would be able to see us.  He was watching the football games from Riley Hospital in India­napolis. Our hope was … he would see a number of people with their hands up in the air for him.” 
But for Murphy’s family and friends, tomorrow’s “X” will hold a different significance. 
“One of the first questions the guys asked [after Xavier passed] is, ‘Are we going to move forward with this?’” Col­onna said. “Mrs. Murphy called me that evening and I asked her. She said, ‘Now he’ll see it from heaven. Go ahead . sounds like a great idea.’” 
Colonna said after hearing the news of Murphy’s passing, the Zahm community immedi­

see ‘X’/page 5 
Professor winsNobel Prize 
By DAN BROMBACH 
News Writer 
For Notre Dame Astrophys­ics Professor Peter Garnav­ich, a telephone call at 5:00 
a.m. was a dream come true. 
Over the line, his wife in­formed him that he and his scientific team­mates had just won the 2011 Nobel Prize in physics. 
Garnav­ich said he has always felt that he and his team, the High-Z Super­nova Search Team, were ca­pable of winning the prize, but he was surprised at just how quickly this was accom­plished. 
“It was really a pleasant surprise because it has only been 13 years since we made our findings,” Garnavich said.  “Some people wait 30 or more years before their work is rewarded … I think 

see NOBEL/page 4 


Business students strive to improve stadium atmosphere 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
This season, Notre Dame fans have sought a few “-ation’s” in their gameday experience, spe­cifically intimidation, motiva­tion and elation. 
Junior Kristen Stoutenburgh and sophomore Matthew Cun­ningham believe they have the solutions to achieve these states at every home game: music and a jumbotron. 
After this year’s loss to Michi­gan, Cunningham and Stouten-burgh, Mendoza College of Business students, created a research project aimed at mak­ing the game day atmosphere in Notre Dame Stadium more exciting, energetic and intimi­dating. 
“If you look at all the success­ful college football programs of the last ten years or so, they all have intimidating home field advantage,” Cunningham said. 
“We think Notre Dame has the potential, with all it’s tradition, to have as good an atmosphere as anybody.” 
Cunningham said the project researches how Notre Dame can achieve a more intimidat­ing home field advantage. 
Home field advantage, Stoutenburgh said, is the key to being more than just a tough game on paper. 
“When opponents come in and see our name on the sched­ule, they are like, ‘Oh [man], we’re playing Notre Dame,” she said. “But once they get [here] it is different … It is not as intimi­dating as other places.” 
To begin their project, Cun­ningham and Stoutenburgh surveyed University students. The survey asked students ques­tions such as, “How would you compare another school’s game atmosphere to Notre Dame’s?” 
see STADIUM/page 6 


MARINA KOZAK I Observer Graphic 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Recycled paper change page 3 u Viewpoint page 10 u Old and young Domers page 12 u Women’s soccer in Big East quarterfinals page 24 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Friday, October 28, 2011 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT’S THE BEST HALLOWEEN COSTUME YOU’VE EVER SEEN? 

Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY’S STAFF  
News  Sports  
Caitlin Housley  Jack Hefferon  
Adam Llorens  Conor Kelly  
Bridget Feeney  Sam Gans  
Graphics  Scene  
Marina Kozak  Kevin Noonan  
Photo  Viewpoint  
Sarah O’Connor  Megan Kozak  

Jasmine Young  Truong Pham  Wendy Hatch  Michael Vella  Jamie O’Donohue  Will Ivancic  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  junior  
off campus  Siegfried  Farley  Siegfried  Siegfried  Siegfried  
“Pixelated  “The Holy  “‘Genie in a  “An interactive  “I had a friend in  “Ricky Bobby,  
female Link.”  Trinity.”  bottle.”  ‘Words with Friends’  high school who was about 6’6,’’  on fire, in his underwear.”  
costume.”  so he painted  
himself green and was the Jolly  

Green Giant.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 

Tattooed Barbie stirs up controvery, angers parents 
NEW YORK CITY — The doll with the dragon tattoo? 
With pink hair and tattoos across her shoulders and neck, U.S. toymaker Mattel’s latest collector’s edition Bar­bie doll could be compared more to the edgy female hero­ine of author Stieg Larrson’s best-selling Millennium tril­ogy than to the more tradi­tional Barbies. 
Since its release earlier this month, the $50 limited edition doll designed by Los Angeles-based fashion com­pany tokidoki and aimed at adult collectors, has sold out but not before causing contro­versy. 
“Is the New ‘Tokidoki’ Tat­too Barbie Inappropriate for Children?” U.S. News & World Report asked in a re­cent headline. 
Some parents also ques­tioned whether the toy com­pany should be promoting body art. 
“It’s teaching kids to want tattoos before they are old enough to dress like that,” Kevin Buckner, of Virginia, told a local television station. 
No one was available from Mattel to comment on the is­sue. 
British minister fined for failing to pay taxes 
LONDON — Business Sec­retary Vince Cable, who has called for tough action against tax dodgers, has been fined 
LOCAL WEATHER 
for failing to pay his own tax bill, his office said on Wednes­day. 
Cable, a Liberal Democrat minister in the government, was hit with a 500 pound pen­alty from the tax office over money he had earned from media work but for which he had not paid the VAT sales tax, the Sun newspaper re­ported. 
During campaigning for last year’s election, Cable at­tacked “billionaire tax-dodg­ers” who had undue influence on the government and “have the effrontery to tell us how to vote and how to run our tax policies.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
General Anthony Zinnie of the United States Marine Corps will speak today from 
1:30 to 3:30 p.m. Zinni, a four-star General and former Commander in Chief of U.S. Central Command, will give a lecture titled “American Strategic Interests and Op­tions in the Middle East and Beyond.” The lecture will be held in the Digital Visualiza­tion Theatre at the Jordan Hall of Science and is spon­sored by the Notre Dame International Security Pro­gram and the James P. Reil­ly, Jr. Notre Dame National Security Lecture Series. 
There will be a tailgate party today from 3 to 6 p.m. sposnsored by the Center for Undergraduate Schol­arly Engagement in Dooley Room 102 of the LaFortune Student Center. Come enjoy donuts, coffee and cider and pick up a CUSE T-shirt. 
Robert Schmuhl, Annen­berg-Joyce Chair in Ameri­can Studies and Journalism, will speak today from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. in the Hes-burgh Center Auditorium. Schmuhl will give the 2011 Hibernian Lecture: “All Changed, Changed Utterly: Easter 1916 and America.” 
The 1942 classic film “Sullivan’s Travels” will be shown tonight at 8 p.m. in the DeBatolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3. 
Magacian Mike Super will perform on the Washington Hall Mainstage Auditorium tonight at 9 p.m. Admission is free for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH 55 LOW 41 
HIGH 53 LOW 36 
HIGH 57 LOW 40 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to an editing error, an article in the Oct. 27 edition of The Observer misrepresented which day Wyn Sullivan returned to campus after her brother, Declan Sullivan’s death. She returned to campus Tuesday Nov. 2, 2010. A second story in the same edition did not include the fact that the Notre Dame’s final agreement with IOSHA in July reduced the “knowing” violation against the University and dropped the total fine to $42,000 rather than $77,500. The Observer regrets these errors.” 
TODAY TONIGHT GAMEDAY SUNDAY HALLOWEEN TUESDAY 










Friday, October 28, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 

ND switches to recycled paper 

By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
In the next year, Notre Dame will have the power to save the equivalent of 18 trees, water from 130 showers and 453 gal­lons of gasoline all by switching to recycled paper. 
Office of Sustainability Pro­grams Manager Erin Hafner said the change, which will begin Nov. 1 and take full ef­fect Jan. 1, 2012, is part of an initiative several years in the making. 
“We asked about this change a couple of years ago, but it wasn’t feasible,” she said. “When the Office of Public Affairs and Communications changed the Notre Dame brand standards, we saw this as an opportunity to update the paper.” 
The change will affect Uni­versity letterheads, business cards, envelopes and other pa­per items printed from Express Press, a South Bend printer. As a result of an agreement be­tween the University, the print­er and the paper supplier, the change will come with zero cost increase, Hafner said. 
“We pick and choose our ini­tiatives based on the greatest impact,” she said. “This is a centralized change.” 
Javier Hernandez, a procure­ment specialist who worked on the project, said Express Press was an excellent partner to work with on the change. 
“Express Press made this transition easy,” Hernandez said. “We’re trying to be a lead­er with this initiative,” he said. 
Hernandez said the station­ary will look slightly different. Although the paper will still come from the current station­ary provider, Neenah Paper, the new stock will be a brighter white than the current stock. 
In an announcement through Procurement Services, Hafner said Neenah Paper advocates the green sentiments of its pa­per products through its com­pany practices. 
“Neenah Paper is truly dedi­cated to reducing its carbon footprint,” she said in the an­nouncement. 
“They generate their own hy­droelectric power at their mills in Wisconsin and Germany, they are one of the largest purchas­ers of [independently certified] renewable energy in Wisconsin and they are putting major ef­forts into energy conservation. As a result, their North Ameri­can mills have cut their [carbon dioxide] emissions almost in half over the last decade.” 
According to the announce­ment, six out of seven Neenah Paper company mills have achieved a company-wide goal of zero landfill waste. 
Contact Amanda Gray at        agray@nd.edu 


Studentdocumentaries earn national honors 
By ABI HOVERMAN 
News Writer 
For a few recent gradu­ates, a class project turned into national recognition. 
“The Elect” and “Picking Up America,” two documen­taries created for a docu­mentary production class in 2010, have been official selections and award win­ners at film festivals across the country this year. 
Film, Television and The­atre (FTT) faculty mem­ber Ted Mandell taught the class for which the films were made. 
“In the past few years [Notre Dame] has been more successful in terms of getting into national and international film festi­vals,” Mandell said. 
Produced by 2011 gradu­ates Erin Zacek and Dan Moore, “The Elect” was selected for the Los Ange­les film festival for its be­hind-the-scenes look at the Scottsboro Baptist Church. 
“When we went to the LA film festival, out of 5,000 films, to be selected and to stand out from that many quality films was really ex­citing,” Zacek said. 
“Picking Up America,” produced by Michael Burke and Marie Wicht of the Class of 2011, tells the story of the environmentalist group Pick Up America, which has been picking up trash across the coun­try since March national scope and interest, Mandell said. 
Both films’ creators took advantage of the Broad Av­enue Filmmakers Award, a grant for FTT students cre­ated by a 1986 Notre Dame graduate. 
“We got funding totaling over $1,000 … That covered all our travel expenses, as well as submission fees for somewhere around 20 film festivals,” Burke said. 
The relatively small size small of Notre Dame’s film department gives students the benefit of more faculty attention and more access to equipment, Mandell said. 
“Our documentary class had eight people. To get that kind of one-on-one atten­tion from the professor and feedback from the class … was a luxury,” Zacek said. 
Because of small classes, film students participate in every aspect of the film-making process, including writing, producing, cine­matography, directing and editing, Mandell said. 
“For [“Picking up Ameri­ca,”] it was me and Dan do­ing the whole thing,” Zacek said. “At a bigger school I’d just have one job, like ed­iting. But for FTT, here we got to do the whole thing just the two of us, and that versatility was great to have.” 
The Arts and Letters and University requirements 
that FTT 
majors must 
take in ad­
dition to 
2010 to “It was super rewarding their film raise to have someone classes also aware-make more 
stand up and say, 
ness about well-round­
‘This is the film that 
waste and ed students, 
can inspire the most 
pollution. Mandell
change.’ … Knowing 
In ad-said. 
that it worked and 
dition to “Students 
being se-people are responding are more lected for to it is rewarding,” prepared 12 festi-when they vals, the Marie Wicht get to the film won real world,” 
alumni 
the Social Change Award at the Ivy Film Festival and Best Na­ture Film at the Yosemite Film Festival. 
“It was super rewarding to have someone stand up and say, ‘This is the film that can inspire the most change.’ … Knowing that it worked and people are responding to it is reward­ing,” Wicht said. “We’re college kids … We got in competing against non-stu­dent films.” 
Mandell said Notre Dame’s FTT department of­fers students unique oppor­tunities that have contrib­uted to such successes. 
First, Notre Dame offers filmmakers funding and grants to travel, which is key when making films of he said. 
“They are 
more aware 
of issues and ways to approach them.” 
As these documenta­ries continue their tour of film festivals, the students are enjoying their success, Burke said. 
“I’m still surprised how welcoming all these festi­vals are to student film­makers,” he said. “The fact that a college student 
—
 and even a high school student in some festivals 

—
 can have an opportunity like that is something I was totally unaware of. 


“What’s been most sur­prising is the way you get treated as a filmmaker at festivals.” 
By Abi Hoverman at            ahoverma@nd.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, October 28, 2011 

SMC club hosts ‘scary story’ event 

By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
On Thursday, the Saint Mary’s Class Gift Campaign paid hom­age to the ghostly inhabitants of Saint Mary’s with its “Sweet Treats and Scary Stories” event. 
It is rumored that various ghosts, including the spirit of Sister Madeleva, former presi­dent of the College, roam the halls of Saint Mary’s after hours. 
At the event, staff and stu­dents read excerpts from “Quiet Hours: Revealing the Myster­ies,” a book written by three Saint Mary’s alumnae. This col­lection of short stories tells ac­tual experiences of Saint Mary’s very few students dressed up. 

“I would have dressed up if it wasn’t so cold outside,” sopho­more Kira Terrill said. 
The Class Gift Campaign also raffled off $50, $25 and $10 of munch money in a drawing. Students entered the draw­ing by picking up tickets at the dining hall and student center throughout the week and by presenting them upon arrival at the event. 
This year, the Class Gift Cam­paign co-sponsored the event with the Resident Hall Associa­tion (RHA). 
“RHA has always hosted an Autumn Harvest, an event with fall themed treats, for students. But this year, Class Gift Cam-
students, fac­ulty and staff with ghosts around cam­pus. 
Parti ci­pants lis­tened to ghost stories while enjoy­ing a spread of sweets including a chocolat e fondue bar, apple cider, hot choco­late, pump­kin pie and candy apples. 
“I had read ‘Quiet Hours’ 

“It’s a fun event to host around Halloween time, but its also a way to remind students that many people before them made a Saint Mary’s education possible.” 
Amy Dardinger assistant director Phonathon 
paign ap­proached us with the idea of working together on this event,” RHA Presi­dent Kat Nelson said. “The event has had a great turn­out. We had canoe races around the lake earlier, and then ev­eryone came over after­wards. Some faculty and staff mem­
before, but my favorite story is of the girl walking down the av­enue,” first year Madeline Have­rilla said. “A murderer sees her on the road, but doesn’t attack her because he sees someone walking with her, even though she was alone. It gave me the chills, but it also made me feel like there is someone looking out for us.” 
Continuing the scary theme of the night, students partici­pated in a costume contest that awarded the scariest, creepi­est costumes. First prize was a bobblehead figure of Dr. Carol Ann Mooney, president of Saint Mary’s College, and her hus­band George Efta. 
Due to cold temperatures, bers brought their families, and it was great to see some profes­sors with their kids.” 

The event also gave students the opportunity to make indi­vidual donations. 
“We hope that students will see how much tradition there is at Saint Mary’s and how impor­tant it is that everyone give back to the College,” Amy Dardinger, assistant director of Phonathon, said.  “It’s a fun event to host around Halloween time, but its also a way to remind students that many people before them made a Saint Mary’s education possible.” 
Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 
Nobel 
continued from page 1 
this really reflects the im­portance of our discovery.” 
According to a ND News­wire article, Garnavich and the rest of his team will receive the prize based on their 1994 study that proves the universe’s expansion is accelerating. 
“Using supernovae, we were able to get a pretty good number on how fast the universe was chang­ing its rate of expansion,” Garnavich said.  “To every­body’s surprise, the rate of expansion was increasing.” 
Although Garnavich is be­ing honored, he will not di­rectly receive the prize due to a long-standing Nobel Prize tradition. 
“By tradition, the Nobel Prize is given to only three people at a time,” Garnavich said.  “This tradition stems from a time when science was done primarily by indi­viduals alone in their labs. 

Science nowadays is done more and more in groups, but the Nobel Prize com­mittee really hasn’t kept up with this change.” 
Garnavich’s teammates, Australian National profes­sor Brian Schmidt; Johns Hopkins professor Adam Riess and Universtiy of Cal­ifornia, Berkeley, professor Saul Perlmutter, will re­ceive the award directly. 
Nonetheless, Garnavich said he is excited to rep­resent Notre Dame at the ceremony, and he hopes the publicity the event attracts will benefit the science pro­gram at the University. 
“Professors and grad stu­dents are doing excellent scientific research here at Notre Dame, but this is of­ten not recognized as much as it should be,” Garnav­ich said.  “I hope that by attending the Nobel Prize award ceremony, I’ll be able to really enhance the view of scientific research here at ND.” 
Contact Dan Brombach at      dbrombach@nd.edu 
Friday, October 28, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
‘X’ 
continued from page 1 
ately came together to make Raise an X for X a reality. 
“I will admit that in a time of such great loss, there is a sense of helplessness,” he said. “[The campaign] gave us some purpose, some way of chan­neling that grief. We moved forward, got more cosponsors after Xavier’s passing [and] we got the cheerleaders and leprechaun onboard.” 
Colonna then met with mem­bers of the football team’s ad­ministration to figure out the logistics of Saturday’s event. 
The cheerleaders and lep­rechaun will lead the student body in “raising an X for X” each time the band plays the Celtic Chant during the first quarter, Colonna said. 
A moment of silence will also be held before kickoff to honor Murphy. 
Zahm and the football administration decided to postpone the moment of si­lence until tomorrow’s game against Navy for four reasons, Colonna said. The administra­tion wanted the moment to co­incide with the Raise an X for X campaign and to make sure the whole student body was back from fall break to par­ticipate. Furthermore, Oct. 29 would have been Murphy’s birthday and, finally, Mur­phy’s family will be in atten­dance at tomorrow’s game. 
Members of the football team wore “X” decals on their helmets at the beginning of the USC game and will contin­ue to wear them for the rest of the season. 
Murphy was one of three senior football managers last year and was interning with the football team this year. 
Senior Brendan Corsones, a resident assistant in Zahm, said Raise an X for X reflects the strength of the Notre Dame community. 
“I think we’re all kind of bonded together at ND by a spirit that we can’t really de­scribe,” Corsones said. “It’s going to mean a lot this week­end.  We hope for a really big turnout.” 
The campaign also involves T-shirt and bandana sales to raise money for Murphy’s me­morial fund, a Basilica mass and a blood drive. 
could be the girl that lives down the hallway from you who’s battling cancer, [or] your Aunt Sally.” 
On Nov. 4 at 5:15 p.m., Zahm will host a mass in the Basil­ica to honor those currently battling cancer and those who have died from the disease. Zahm priest-in-resident Fr. Jim Gallagher will celebrate the mass. Zahm will also hold a blood drive Nov. 7 from 10 
a.m. to 4 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom to benefit the Indiana Blood Center. 

O’Neill, Mor­rissey, Ca­va n a ug h , Lyons, Ryan and Carroll Halls are co­ “For us, it’s Xavier, but ‘X’ could be the girl that lives down the hallway from you who’s battling cancer, [or] your Aunt Sally.”  C o l o n n a said the blood drive will mark the end of Raise an X for X.  
s p on s or i ng the campaign with Zahm.  Corry Colonna rector  After the c a m p a i g n comes to a  
C o l o n n a  Zahm Hall  close, Duffey  

said T-shirt sales and flat out donations will go to the Xavier Murphy Student Schol­arship Fund through the Of­fice of Development at Guerin Catholic High School. 
Proceeds from bandana sales will go toward Relay for Life. 
Zahm will sell bandanas to­day in both dining halls and at both entrances of Irish Green during tonight’s pep rally. Residence halls holding con­cession stands tomorrow will also sell the bandanas. Both T-shirts and bandanas can be purchased online at Student Shop ND. 
Colonna said Raise an X for X is meant to both honor Xavier and to raise awareness about cancer, showing sup­port for others who have been affected by the disease. 
“We raised the idea that ‘X’ is like a variable,” he said. “For us, it’s Xavier, but ‘X’ said mem­
bers of Zahm 
will come to­
gether to de­cide on an appropriate way of memorializing Murphy in the hall. 
“He was just, first and fore­mast, a guy of Zahm,” Duffey said. “He embodied every­thing that we love about our dorm.” 
The Raise an X for X cam­paign gives the dorm an op­portunity to honor Murphy, who has left a lasting impres­sion both on Zahm and on the larger Notre Dame communi­ty, Colonna said. 
“I think that’s what this is about [is] a testament of how many people he touched, how much he meant to us and to others on campus,” he said. “I’m proud. This is the ND community. This is what we do.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 



ACE 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame Athletics De­partment and the Alliance for Catholic Education’s (ACE) Play Like A Champion pro­gram. 
Dugan said the league be­gan with 40 participants but doubled to 80 by last week. More than 40 volunteers helped throughout the course of the fall. 
“Every week we would play flag football for one­and-a-half hours and then go through 30 minutes of Play Like A Champion char­acter building lessons,” Du­gan said. “Seeing student-athletes serving alongside fellow students, faculty and staff was powerful. I think their influence helped plant big dreams, goals and aspira­tions [in] these kids.” 
Devon Dobson, a senior on the men’s lacrosse team, said he decided to join the program to reach out to the youth community in South Bend. 
“Through Coach Corrigan and Kevin Dugan, we were able to partake in the pro­gram by coaching, officiating and playing in the flag foot­ball games each Sunday,” he said. 
Dobson said the children came to grasp the impor­tance of teamwork, fair play and good character through the Irish Experience League. The program shed light on the resources at Notre Dame and the positive atmosphere the athletes brought to the community, he said. 
“The boys and girls of the Irish Experience took away the true meaning of ‘Play Like a Champion Today,’ which is the motto of the pro­gram,” Dobson said. “They gained a firm understand­ing in the value of team work and undertook confidence in themselves as individuals to succeed.” 
Tim Abromaitis, a graduate student on the men’s basket­ball team, said the best part of the experience for him was the connection he felt with the participants. 
“A lot of conversation cen­tered around common inter­est in sports, but getting to hear about school and home life was also interesting and insightful,” he said. 
The program also brought the Notre Dame and South Bend communities closer through fun experiences, he said. 
“It was good how the pro­gram tied together all these different aspects with play­ing a sport all the kids love,” Abromaitis said. “I hope they enjoyed playing football with me as much as I did with them, but also learned some life lessons in teamwork, ded­ication and relationships.” 
Dugan said participants not only left with a greater sense of what opportunities they could pursue in their future, but also built relationships between the internal and ex­ternal communities around Notre Dame. 
In the future, he said he hopes to see the Irish Experi­ence League expand. 
“We see this league grow­ing to multiple locations around South Bend,” Dugan said. “We see it becoming a hallmark volunteer opportu­nity for the whole Notre Dame family.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at     ntoczaue@nd.edu 


page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, October 28, 2011 
Stadium 
continued from page 1 
and “Do you feel Notre Dame Stadium is an intimidating place for opponents to play?” 
They compiled the results of over 950 surveys, formulated ideas and presented them to the Athletics Department. 
“We … talked to [members of the Athletic Department] and they said ‘we are support­ing you and want to work with your project,’” Stoutenburgh said. 
The students worked with Josh Berlo, senior assistant athletic director for event mar­keting and events manage­ment. 
“Kristen and Matt ap­proached the Athletic Depart­ment and met with myself, as well and other athletic admin­istrators, to ensure that we were receptive to their con­ducting the project and would welcome their presentation of its results,” he said. “The de­partment is always open and recep­tive to stu­dent feed­back and appreciates their ef-Stoutenburgh said they do not want the music to distract from the Band of the Fighting Irish. 

“We don’t want to take away from the band at all. We love our band,” Cunningham said. “That’s why we involved the band in the focus group be­cause there are parts where the band can’t play at all.” 
Stoutenburgh said the ad­ditions of a video board and music would make game day traditions a bigger part of the game day experience. 
“When the players run out of the tunnel and hit the ‘Play Like a Champion Today Sign,’ let’s see that,” she said. “[We are about] enhancing tradition … not taking away from it, but [bringing] it to the forefront.” 
To continue their research on game day cultures, Cun­ningham and Stoutenburgh hope to visit various universi­ties known for their intimidat­ing game day atmospheres and talk to their marketing depart­ments. 
“We want to ask them, how do you use a video board, how do you keep your fans engaged 
in the game?” 
Cunningham 
said.
 “As soon 
as kickoff 
happens [in 
Notre Dame protesters they were violating multiple city laws by camping overnight at a park. 

The group Iraq Veterans Against the War blamed police for Olsen’s injury. Oakland Po­lice Chief Howard Jordan said officials will investigate wheth­er officers used excessive force. He did not return calls seeking comment Thursday. 
Police have said they re­sponded with tear gas and bean bag rounds only when protest­ers began throwing bottles and other items at them. 
Olsen’s condition improved Thursday, with doctors trans­ferring him from the emergen­cy room to an intensive care unit and upgrading his condi­tion to fair. 
Dr. Alden Harken, chief sur­geon at Alameda County Medi­cal Center, said Olsen was still unable to speak but had im­proved dramatically since he was hospitalized unconscious with a fractured skull and bruised brain that caused sei­zures. 
By Thursday afternoon, Har­ken said, Olsen was interacting with his parents, who flew in from Wisconsin in the morning, doing math equations and oth­erwise showing signs of “high­level cognitive functioning.” The doctor said he may require surgery, but that’s unlikely. 
“He’s got a relatively small area of injury and he’s got his youth going for him. So both of those are very favorable,” Har­ken said. 
Olsen smiled when Mayor Jean Quan stopped by to visit and expressed surprise at all the attention his injury has generated, hospital spokesman Vintage Foster said. The mayor apologized and promised an in­vestigation, according to Foster. 
His uncle in Wisconsin told The Associated Press that Ol­sen’s mother was trying to un­derstand what had happened. 
“This is obviously a heart-breaker to her,” George Nygaard said. “I don’t think she understands why he was doing this.” 
Joshua Shepherd, 27, a Navy veteran who was standing nearby when Olsen got struck, said he didn’t know what hit him. “It was like a war zone,” he said. 

Stadium], the 

“When the players run 
forts.” energy that is 
out of the tunnel and hit 
In order generated the 
to develop the ‘Play Like a Champion whole day by their idea Today Sign,’ let’s see that.” being on cam-further, pus … just Cunn ing -Kristen Stoutenburgh goes downhill ham and from there,” 
junior 
Sto uten­burgh con­ducted a fo­cus group of ten people. 
“We had two people from the band, one with a traditionalist, don’t change anything view, and some other students,” Stoutenburgh said. “We basi­cally asked questions that were similar to the survey, but en­gaged more in conversation.” 
The students said an inter­esting observation followed from the focus group.  More tradition-focused individuals were receptive to music being played and a jumbotron being installed. 
Despite the music idea’s popularity, Cunningham and Stoutenburgh said. “So we want to sus­tain and build on that.” 
For the rest of the sea­son, however, 

Cunningham and Stouten-burgh will suggest new music and other fan-engaging tech­niques in conjunction with the Athletic Department. 
Both said they are open to positive and negative student feedback. 
“We love talking to people about [our research],” Stouten-burgh said. “Even if people aren’t on our side, we want to hear it.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboarini@nd.edu 

War vet protests for reform 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. — The Iraq War veteran injured dur­ing a clash between police and anti-Wall Street protesters this week wasn’t taking part in the demonstrations out of economic need. 
The 24-year-old Scott Olsen makes a good living as a net­work engineer and has a nice apartment overlooking San Francisco Bay. And yet, his friends say, he felt so strongly about economic inequality in the United States that he fought for overseas that he slept at a protest camp after work. 
“He felt you shouldn’t wait until something is affecting you to get out and do some­thing about it,” said friend and roommate Keith Shannon, who served with Olsen in Iraq. 
It was that feeling that drew him to Oakland on Tuesday night, when the clashes broke out and Olsen’s skull was frac­tured. Fellow veterans said Olsen was struck in the head by a projectile fired by police, although the exact object and who might have been responsi­ble for the injury have not been definitively established. 
Now, even as officials in­vestigate exactly where the projectile came from, Olsen has become a rallying cry for the Occupy Wall Street dem­onstrators across the nation, with Twitter users and protest websites declaring, “We are all Scott Olsen.” 
In Las Vegas, a few dozen protesters held a vigil for him. A handful of police officers at­tended, and protesters invited them back for a potluck dinner Thursday night. 
“We renewed our vow of non­violence,” organizer Sebring Frehner said. 
Another round of vigils were organized for Thursday night, including one in Oakland. 
Elsewhere across the United States, officials took steps to close some of the protest camps that have sprung up in opposi­tion to growing economic in­equality. 
In Nashville, Tenn., officials imposed a curfew, saying con­ditions at a camp at the state Capitol were worsening. In Providence, R.I., officials told 


Webcam streams polar bears 
Associated Press 
HELENA, Mont. — In the harsh, remote wilds of the Canadian tundra, a wolver­ine scampers up to a polar bear snoozing near the shore of the Hudson Bay. The bear rises and makes a half-heart­ed charge, driving away the fierce, badger-like animal. 
The brief encounter Thurs­day was streamed live to computers around the world through a new program that aims to document in real time the annual migration of hun­dreds of polar bears outside Churchill, Manitoba. 
The bears travel through the small town each October and November and then wait for the Hudson Bay freeze-up, when they can get out on the ice and hunt for seals. In the past, their trek was witnessed mainly by scientists and in­trepid tourists. 
Now, thanks to an initial $50,000 grant from the An­nenberg Foundation to set up four cameras on a makeshift lodge and a roaming Tundra Buggy, plus ongoing payments for bandwidth and technical infrastructure, the bears’ an­tics and actions at this way station can be viewed from anybody’s living room through the foundation’s website, www.explore.org. 
“It brings the Arctic to the people,” said Krista Wright, executive vice president of Polar Bears International, an advocacy group based in Boz­eman, Mont. “The polar bear is the North’s iconic species. This is that exotic animal that people travel from all over the world to see.” 
There are 20,000 to 25,000 polar bears worldwide. The Western Hudson Bay polar bears, one of 19 subpopula­tions, are estimated to number between 600 and 800. Their gathering point near the for­mer military town of Churchill makes them among the most accessible and studied group of bears in existence. 
Their numbers are expect­ed to grow over the next few weeks as the weather turns colder, culminating with the bay expected to freeze around the third week of November. 
The Polar Bears Interna­tional camp on the tundra is about 30 miles (50 kilometers) outside of town. Each Septem­ber through November, they and Frontiers North Adven­tures host scientists and hold webcasts for schoolchildren to give them a firsthand view of how climate change is damag­ing the bears’ habitat. 
It’s unseasonably warm in Manitoba, as evidenced on the webcam by the tundra bare of snow. That raises concerns that ice will be late in form­ing again this year — last year, freeze-up didn’t happen until mid-December, nearly a month later than usual. That’s a problem for the bears, Wright said. 



page 8 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, October 28, 2011 

New evidence released in Michael Jackson case 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES  — Lawyers for Michael Jackson’s doctor sought to shift blame Thursday to an­other doctor and a drug different from the anesthetic that killed the star, calling an expert to testify that Jackson was addicted to a Demerol in the months before his death. 
They suggested the singer’s withdrawal from the painkiller triggered the insomnia that Dr. Conrad Murray was trying to re­solve when he gave Jackson the anesthetic propofol. 
Murray’s attorneys claim the ultimate blame lies with Jackson himself, but they also sought to implicate his dermatologist in the drug-laced path to his June 2009 death. 
Late in the day, they called to the stand a top expert on the an­esthetic propofol. Dr. Paul White is expected to cast doubt on a colleague’s earlier testimony that Murray was responsible for Jack­son’s death. He returns to the stand Friday. 
Court recessed before White gave his central opinion. He did say he was “perplexed” after reading documents in the case about whether Murray adminis­tered the propofol dose that killed Jackson. 
He noted that Murray described to police a very low dose of the drug. If that was true, White said, “I would not have expected Mi­chael Jackson to have died.” 
White said if Murray did in fact put Jackson on an IV drip of pro­pofol and leave him unattended, he could not justify it. White did not immediately offer an alter­nate theory of what happened. 
Authorities contend Murray delivered the lethal dose and botched resuscitation efforts. Murray has pleaded not guilty to involuntary manslaughter in Jackson’s death. 
There was no mention of pro­pofol during the testimony of Dr. Robert Waldman, an addiction expert who said he studied the records of Dr. Arnold Klein, Jack­son’s longtime dermatologist, in concluding the star was depen­dent on Demerol. Records showed Klein used Demerol on Jackson repeatedly for procedures to en­hance his appearance. 
No Demerol was discovered in the singer’s system when he died, but propofol was found through­out his body. 
Waldman relied on Klein’s re­cords from March 2009 until days before Jackson died. Waldman said he was not shown earlier re­cords and didn’t review a police interview of Murray about his treatment of the star. 
Under questioning by Murray’s lead lawyer, Ed Chernoff, Wald-man said: “I believe there is evi­dence that he (Jackson) was de­pendent on Demerol, possibly.” 
Klein has emerged as the miss­ing link in the involuntary man­slaughter trial, with the defense raising his name at every turn and the judge ruling he may not be called as a witness because his care of Jackson is not at issue. He has not been charged with any wrongdoing. 
But Klein’s handwritten notes on his visits with Jackson were in­troduced through Waldman, who said Klein was giving Jackson unusually high doses of Demerol for four months — from March through June, 2009 — with the last shots coming three days be­fore the singer’s death. 
Over three days in April, the records showed Jackson received 775 milligrams of Demerol along with small doses of the sedative Versed. Waldman’s testimony showed Klein, who also was Jack­son’s longtime friend, was giving the singer huge doses of the pow­erful drug at the same time Mur­ray was giving Jackson the anes­thetic propofol to sleep. 
“This is a large dose for an opi­oid for a dermatology procedure in an office,” Waldman said. 
He told jurors the escalating doses showed Jackson had devel­oped a tolerance to the drug and was probably addicted. He said a withdrawal symptom from the drug is insomnia. 
On cross-examination, pros­ecutor David Walgren tangled with the expert, who was hostile to most of his questions. He elic­ited from Waldman that the law requires physicians to keep accu­rate and detailed records, which Murray did not. The doctor also said all drugs should be kept in a locked cabinet or safe where they could not be stolen or diverted by anyone. 
Waldman said every doctor also must document when the drugs are stored and when they are used. Murray told police he kept no records on his treatment of Jackson. 
Waldman, who has treated ce­lebrities and sports stars at ex­pensive rehab clinics, told jurors treatment can work if the addict is willing to admit a problem. 
Several prosecution experts have said the propofol self-admin­istration defense was improbable, and a key expert said he ruled it out completely, arguing the more likely scenario was that Murray gave Jackson a much higher dose than he has acknowledged. 
Jackson had complained of in­somnia as he prepared for a se­ries of comeback concerts and was receiving the anesthetic and sedatives from Murray to help him sleep. 
Murray’s police interview indi­cates he didn’t know Jackson was being treated by Klein and was receiving other drugs. 
In response to questions from a prosecutor, Waldman said some of the symptoms of Demerol with­drawal were the same as those seen in patients withdrawing from the sedatives lorazepam and diazepam. Murray had been giv­ing Jackson both drugs. 
White is expected to be the final defense witness. 
White and Waldman do not necessarily have to convince ju­rors that Jackson gave himself the fatal dose, but merely provide them with enough reasonable doubt about the prosecution’s case against Murray. 



Friday, October 28, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 9 

Feds study levee inventory 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — More than six years after Hurricane Katrina’s rampage, authorities have taken only halting steps toward identifying weakness­es in a nationwide patchwork of levees intended to protect millions of Americans’ lives and property during poten­tially catastrophic floods. 
The U.S. Army Corps of En­gineers, accused of building substandard levees and flood-walls that failed when Katrina swamped the Gulf Coast in 2005, has spent $56 million since then developing the ini­tial phase of a national levee inventory as required by Con­gress. The Corps on Thurs­day was releasing a database with information about nearly 14,000 miles of levees under its jurisdiction. 
But the inventory doesn’t include what is believed to be more than 100,000 additional miles of levees not covered by the Corps’ safety program. Some are little more than mounds of earth piled up more than a century ago to protect farm fields. Others extend for miles and are made of con­crete and steel, with sophis­ticated pump and drainage systems. They shield homes, businesses and infrastructure such as highways and power plants. 
The National Committee on Levee Safety, established after the Katrina disaster to evalu­ate the system and recom­mend improvements, issued a report in 2009 calling for the Corps to catalog and in­spect every levee so deficien­cies could be fixed. But Corps officials say Congress has not provided enough authority or money to add non-federal le­

vees to the database, a mas­sive undertaking that would take years. 
“The reality is, we don’t know how many levees are out there,” said Eric Halpin, the Army Corps’ special assistant for dam and levee safety and vice chairman of the levee safety committee. He acknowl­edged the inventory presently includes only about 10 percent of the likely total. 
“I think we’ve done a great job putting forward a state-of­the-art tool,” Halpin said. “It’s a first step. It will be much more powerful once we can get all the data in there.” 
For each levee system, the database will include its loca­tion, design and rating follow­ing one or more safety inspec­tions. 
Inspection ratings from nearly 700 of the roughly 2,000 levee systems under the Corps’ jurisdiction have been added to the database thus far, said spokesman Pete Pierce. 
Of those, 77 percent had ratings of “minimally accept­able,” meaning they have “mi­nor deficiencies” that make the levees less reliable but are not expected to seriously impair their performance. An additional 11.6 percent were rated “unacceptable,” or likely to fail during a flood, while 
11.3 percent were graded as “acceptable,” or without defi­ciencies. 
Experts say the government is moving too slowly to com­plete the inventory. 
“We need to be really candid with the American people,” said Sam Riley Medlock, policy counsel for the Association of State Floodplain Managers and a member of the levee safety panel. “This is yet an­other class of infrastructure that is aging and posing risks and we’re going to have to do something about it.” 
Gerald Galloway, a former Army Corps district engineer and University of Maryland engineering professor, told a Senate committee this month the levee network has “signifi­cant” problems and received an overall grade of “D minus” from the American Society of Civil Engineers in 2009. The group estimated that $50 bil­lion worth of improvements was needed over five years. 
“So today hundreds of le­vees, whose integrity is in question, are in place in front of communities and proper­ties with little realistic hope of funding for inspection, repair or upgrade,” Galloway said. 
Concern about the levees dates back to the 1920s and 1930s when killer floods on the Ohio and Mississippi riv­ers led Congress to order con­struction of more levees. Many were designed for the biggest flood likely to strike a particu­lar area within 500 years or even 1,000 years. 
But starting in the late 1960s, federal policies have inadvertently encouraged the building of levees according to a less protective standard, the safety committee report said. One required financially strapped local governments to help cover levee building and maintenance costs. 
The portion of the inventory developed thus far includes data on about 13,500 of the 14,700 miles of levees covered by the Army Corps’ safety pro­gram. Data on the rest will be added by the end of the year, officials said. 


Ohio widow unable to reclaim exotic pets 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio  — Six exotic animals that were among doz­ens freed by their suicidal owner and survived a big-game hunt by sheriff’s deputies with shoot-to-kill orders will be kept under quarantine at a zoo for now in­stead of going to his widow, the state Department of Agriculture ordered Thursday. 
The Columbus Zoo and Aquar­ium was trying to stop Mar­ian Thompson from reclaiming three leopards, two primates and a young grizzly bear that have been cared for by the zoo since last week, when owner Terry Thompson mysteriously set them and other wild animals including tigers and lions free in a rural area of eastern Ohio. The other animals were killed by each other or by sheriff’s depu­ties armed with high-powered rifles. 
The zoo said it had Marian Thompson’s permission to care for the six surviving animals, which have been kept separate from other animals, but has no legal rights to them. A veterinary medical officer for the Depart­ment of Agriculture looked at the animals and determined they needed to remain quarantined as allowed by Ohio law, which provides for the agriculture di­rector to quarantine animals while investigating reports of potentially dangerous diseases. 
The announcement came after Gov. John Kasich, upon learning the widow planned to retrieve the animals, asked the agency to ensure they didn’t pose a health threat. 
Kasich, a Republican, earlier this year let expire an order that might have prevented the Thompsons from owning exotic animals. Last week he signed a temporary order to use existing laws to crack down on such ani­mals before new laws are pro­posed. 
The Department of Agriculture said it was concerned about re­ports that the animals had lived in unsanitary conditions where they could be exposed to disease, and the order provides a chance to investigate their health. It prevents the zoo from releasing them until it’s clear they’re free of dangerous diseases. 
A zoo official said Thursday that Terry Thompson had housed animals in tiny muddy shelters made of plywood, many without roofs. The grizzly bear was kept in an enclosure “about the size of a parrot cage,” while the mon­keys were found in a similar-size cage, chief operating officer Tom Stalf said. 
“The facility was small with many, many animals — too many for them to care for,” Stalf said. 
It appeared Marian Thompson had planned to take the animals back to the farm near Zanes­ville, Department of Agriculture spokesman Andy Ware said. 
Thompson and her lawyer were informed of the order when they arrived at the zoo with a big truck on Thursday after­noon. The order is indefinite, but Thompson is entitled to a hear­ing within 30 days if she wants to appeal. Her attorney was trav­eling with her and could not be reached for comment. 
Zoo president Dale Schmidt said Thompson and her lawyer “expressed that they feel these animals belong to her and she wants to exercise her rights.” 
The animals have appeared healthy, perhaps a bit under­weight, but the zoo did not con­duct its standard medical tests because it doesn’t own the crea­tures, Schmidt said. 
“These animals are the inno­cents in this situation, and our job is to really take care of them as much as we can and make sure their welfare is looked out for,” he said. 
Ohio has some of the nation’s weakest restrictions on exotic pets, and efforts to strengthen the regulations have taken on new urgency since Terry Thomp­son opened the cages at his farm last week, freeing four dozen animals and then committing suicide. 
Officers were ordered to kill the animals, including rare Ben­gal tigers, instead of trying to bring them down with tranquil­izers for fear that those hit with darts would escape in the dark­ness before they dropped and would later regain conscious­ness. 
Muskingum County Sheriff Matt Lutz said his office isn’t tak­ing a stance on whether the crea­tures should return to Zanesville but was evaluating that option. 
“If she wants to bring them back here, to this farm, then we’re working on what we’re al­lowed legally to do to make sure that everything is safe and ap­propriate,” Lutz said. 


INSIDE COLUMN 

A week of happiness 
First, a shout out to whoever reads this: 

You guys are awesome. By read­ing this, you’re learning a little more about the people behind the bylines of the ar­ticles you read (or pretend to read but go straight to the word jumbles. Don’t worry. Per­sonally, I give you a gold star for just picking up The Observer). 

So if you read inside columns Nicole Toczauer regularly, you’ve noticed by now News Writer that staff mem­bers at The Observer tend to ap­proach them differently. 
You’ve got those who focus solely on sports and others who can make you laugh after reading one sen­tence. Some share memories while others have pledged to never write about themselves. Then there are the select few who love writing con­troversial columns just to rile you guys up. 
Regardless of their style, I re­spect all of these people immensely. They are some of the most talented people I’ve ever met and I love getting to learn more about them through their columns. 
As for me, I tend to lean toward the “share some of my personal life and then apply it to some message I want to share.” Sometimes it’s a little cheesy, but hey — even if some people brush it off, someone else might connect with it. 
Which brings me to my second point. And if you actually follow through with what I’m about to say, I’ll give you two gold stars. Crazy stuff, I know. 
So… 
What makes you happy? 

Raindrops on roses and whiskers on kittens? Gym, Trumpet, Laun­dry? 
My cheat sheet for happiness: photographs, taking Farley for a walk (or basically seeing any dog on campus), running, picking out random flavors of Ben and Jerry’s with friends, good conversations and watching reruns of How I Met Your Mother. 
I guess my challenge to you this week is to do something that makes you happy, every day if you can. 
I don’t care if you’re busy. 

Maybe do something to make a friend’s day. Write a letter. Go sticky note crazy on their door. Be fancy and treat them to a quarter dog and Peace Tea. 
Or take a lesson from the Scho­lastic Friend Crush and talk to someone you haven’t ever gotten to know well but have always wanted to. I’d like to think that most of the time people will welcome a new friend. 
And if you’re extremely busy, just check out a new song or feed that squirrel that stares at you when you walk to class. It’s really what­ever floats your boat. 
You’ve earned one gold star by reading this. Go out and earn an­other two. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Ghosts, goblins and the GreenMan 
With the tailgating season wrapping up, you’re prob­ably wondering — how can I go green now? Don’t you worry, the holiday season is beginning with Halloween on Monday. While I’ll save my Thanksgiving and Christ­mas tips for a little later, greening Halloween is a great way to get a trial run in before the overwhelming chaos of turkey Anna Gorman takes over. 
So let’s get down to it, the two The GreenMan big C’s: costumes and candy. While I’m a little late in informing you of National Costume Swap Day (occurring every year on the second Saturday in October), it’s not too late to swap with a friend. Dig in your closets and see what you can come up with. Hit the local Goodwill and find yourself a trea­sure. If half the kids in the US swapped their costumes, landfill waste would be reduced by 6,250 tons. Also, think of those store-bought costumes that come in that nasty plastic packaging and reek of chemicals — where does all that plastic come from and where does all of it go? Or get crafty. Some hand stitching goes a long way, or whip out that glue gun you’ve been hiding under your bed (if DuLac hasn’t banned them?). I’m sure there are many other things you’d rather be spending your money on as well. We’re college kids, we’re supposed to be thrifty. I’ll be scouting this weekend, so make me proud. 
Now for candy and other noms. If you’re going to go for the traditional Snickers, Kit Kat or other packaged sugaryness, please don’t litter with your wrappers or throw them away haphazardly. Recycle and reuse. Make a bracelet, a purse or picture frame, if not for you, for a sibling or parent — you know they love that type of thing. If you’re willing to shell out some extra cash, there are dozens of websites that sell organic treats and Fair Trade certified chocolates. Go seasonal with your treats, if you can. Apples are always a great choice. Think about it — baked apples, caramel apples, apple picking, bobbing for apples, applesauce making, apple pie making ... The fun is never ending, so don’t be so quick to dismiss them. Also, if you haven’t tried toasted pumpkin seeds, I would highly recommend you do. Look for recipes and cooking times online. If plain salt doesn’t excite you, add some different spices (garlic, cinnamon, nutmeg, allspice, etc.). If you need any help finding recipes or stores with organic treats, email me. 
And for those of you who like to go all out, let’s talk about decorations. Who doesn’t love streamers? Or those sticky sign things that hang on the doors? But PLEASE, don’t just pitch everything when you’re done. Reuse what you can and recycle the rest. After practic­ing on Game Days with this technique, it shouldn’t be too hard for you all. 
To recap: swap costumes, avoid excess packaging, eat seasonal, buy organic, reuse decorations and recycle as much as you can. Please someone dress as a tree. I would also very much love to see someone as a leaf or a globe or an apple. Green Man Suits will score a few points too. 
Until next time, go green, go Irish. 
Email your predicaments to The GreenMan at ask­thegreenman@gmail.com and let him answer you with a sustainable twist. The GreenMan will be here every other week to provide you with insights you never knew you were missing out on until now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
WEEKLY POLL RESULTS 

“Lasting change is a series of compromises. And compromise is all right, as long your values don’t change.” 
Jane Goodall British ethologist & primatologist 



Friday, October 28, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A chance to heal, unify and enlighten ND 
As Halloween comes up, punctuating our first week back at Our Lady’s University, the members of the Diversity Council wish to spread a message to the greater Notre Dame student body that serves to fulfill all three facets of Notre Dame’s newly displayed mission: “To heal, unify and enlighten.” This weekend, when celebrating in all of the festivities offered on and off cam­pus, we ask that members of the student body think twice about how they dress themselves. Companies often sell costumes that caricaturize other groups based on ethnic stereotypes, without regard to how groups may want to represent themselves. To take any culture and simplify it to a headdress of feathers, or a sombrero, or whatever may seem “satirical” and humorous in the market, not only diminishes those who identify with that culture, but also the well-documented struggles that groups of people have been forced to face in the past and present. We know that celebrations are meant to be fun, but even without malicious intent, it takes a special care and compassion to think of others’ feelings above one’s own. Just because one may person­ally have friends or acquaintances that do not mind costumes depicting their ethnic heritage in a supposedly humorous fashion, that does not mean that the chance of insulting others while walking around campus is immediately diminished. We are a faith-based community that often refers to being a family, and in order to best exemplify the passion, compassion and familial atmosphere Notre Dame is known for, it is important to think of others when faced with a decision that holds the power of hurting others. 
If anyone is at all interested in matters concerning diversity, multi-cultural living or ethnic club activities at Notre Dame, feel free to email diversnd@ nd.edu with any questions. 
On Behalf of the Diversity Council, submitted with the support of Multicul­tural Affair Committee Chair Nicholas Ochoa, 
Alexa Arastoo 
senior Lewis Hall Oct. 27 

Supporting ‘X for X’ 
Notre Dame Family, 

When the men of O’Neill Hall heard of the tragic news of Xavier Murphy’s death, it hit especially close to home. Xavier’s brother, Julian, a current se­nior at Notre Dame, spent his freshmen and sophomore years in O’Neill. One of our O’Neill brothers lost someone really close to them. From the minute we heard of the terrible news, O’Neill wanted to help out our brother in need. Ju­lian and the entire Murphy family are and will always be part of the O’Neill family. During the first quarter on Saturday, we will stand and join with our Zahm brothers and the entire Notre Dame family, past and present, and raise our “X” for Xavier and the entire Murphy family, showing the strong love and support of the entire Notre Dame community. 
The Men of O’Neill Hall. 

Matthew Lynch 
senior O’Neill Hall Oct. 27 

Change your focus 
Dear Brian Kelly, 
I just read the Chicago Tribune article saying that the towels and music were a good start to energizing the fans, but now you want more. First off, look at the 2009 USC game. Day game, green out, no music, incredibly loud stadium. We lost that game, but the game was much closer than the one you coached last week. 
Playing recorded music can only do so much for a football game. The students loved the music, but they make up less than a quarter of the stadium and cheer no matter what. Music won’t excite the alumni — good football will. 
But instead of focusing on fixing the team’s problems (there’s a lot of problems too), you’re more focused on dreaming up your “ideal” Notre Dame stadium. First, you want a jumbotron. Every time I’ve gone to a stadium with a jumbo-tron, I’ve been distracted by the massive screen and have had to suffer through TV commercials and endorsements (ND would abuse this). I love coming back home to Notre Dame and being able to watch the entire game without feeling I was watching it on TV. The only good thing that can ever come from a jumbotron are replays, and controversial plays aren’t replayed. Besides, we couldn’t hate the refs if it turns out they were right. 
But what infuriates me more than anything else is that in the article you de­clared that you want a turf field. If you think that your players aren’t performing well because they’re standing on natural grass, there is something wrong with you. All of our championships have come on this grass, and we’re one of the few grass stadiums left. 
Brian Kelly, there are so many things that you should be focused on. Like win­ning a National Championship. I’ll even settle with getting us into a BCS bowl, or no longer dropping games that we should win. Destroying the few traditions we have left at Notre Dame should not be on your list. If you wanted to play in an environment similar to Cincinnati, then you should have stayed there. 
Matt Roe 
senior Morrissey Manor Oct. 27 

Tradition is character 
I apologize for continuing this conversation into yet ANOTHER day of Observer Viewpoints. But I felt it was necessary. 
I think it is you, Mr. Voutsos (“Perspectives on Tradition,” Oct. 27), who misun­derstands our tradition. Notre Dame’s tradition is not any set of sacred objects as you suggest — it’s an idea of class. We maintain a classy character in our sports games that so many schools have lost. For example, we have an incred­ible university band, we sing an alma mater instead of booing our opponents, we stripe the end zones instead of painting our name there and we resist the urge to clad our mascot in foam. Last weekend at the USC game, we saw our classy character flushed. Towels are not classy. “Crazy Train” screaming on a loud speaker is not classy. And (for future reference, Coach Kelly) jumbotrons are not classy. 
It is not only the alumni who were disappointed in the changes. I agree that we can develop our traditions, as you pointed out in your article with good ex­amples. But that change must occur within the community’s character. 
Also, I hope everyone supports “X for X” during the Celtic chants of the first quarter this weekend (“Raise an X for X,” Oct. 27). Community is classy, and Xavier matters. 
Mary Buechler 
senior Lewis Hall Oct. 27 


UWIRE 

Tax on unhealthy foods may not decrease obesity rates 
Denmark has instituted a tax on foods contain­ing more than a certain amount of saturated fat. Approved by nearly 90 percent of the Danish parlia­ment, the tax mainly targets dairy and meat prod­ucts. It raises retail prices of goods (such as butter, cream, certain cheeses, pork fat and especially lard) by up to 35 per-Rachel Farhi cent. 
Danes justified the The Daily Cougar measure by citing their nation’s rising obesity rate, the desire to increase and improve Danish life spans and the health care industry’s burden of treating symptoms of obesity. The Danish lifespan of 79 years is falling below that of their Western Euro­pean counterparts, and their obesity rate is almost 10 percent. In comparison, the obesity rate in the US is almost 34 percent. 
If the Danish tax sounds like an invasion of pri­vacy, consider that about forty states in the US have also adopted taxes on some unhealthy drinks and snacks; an example is sugary soda — diet soda is exempted. In contrast, many countries simply subsi­dize certain healthier food products, like vegetables, in their fight against obesity. 
One problem with the Danish plan is that the demand for these unhealthy products might be in­elastic; even with price increases, people will adjust and keep consuming the same amount. If a Danish package of butter used to cost around $6, and it now costs $6.50, Danes might just pay more for the sake of their toast. Some Danes might not even realize how much more they are paying because of the tax. 
This is because the relatively low price for each food item could fool people; since they do not real­ize how proportionately large the increase is, they might not adjust. 
Danish restaurants that serve unhealthy foods are also targeted by this law. They have two choices after the increase: either raise prices of entrées, or use less of the taxed goods in the entrées. The hope of Danish lawmakers is that these restaurants will keep their prices stable and instead curb their use of butter and other fatty ingredients. But there is no way to know which option the restaurants will choose. 
The owner of “Relae,” a restaurant in Copen­hagen, plans to raise his prices slightly, not start serving healthier items. He would rather produce what people will keep buying than risk changing his product. 
If I go to Wendy’s and discover that the price of a value burger has increased from $1 to $1.25, I will still choose to buy a few of these burgers rather than the small, probably stale, $6 salad. However, if the salad’s price is decreased, consumers may be more likely to change their choices. The same problem exists in the grocery store; even if the price of butter increases, it is still cheaper than “I Can’t Believe It’s Not Butter.” 
Adjusting prices to affect consumer behavior is common, and doing so to protect people’s health is a praiseworthy idea. Not to mention the additional revenue will bring to the Danish government. 
However, the Danish government might see better results in their campaign against obesity if they simply try to better educate their citizens on the negative consequences of obesity. Due to the global recession, this tax is just another financial burden Danish citizens will have to deal with. 
This article originally ran in the Oct. 27 edition of The Daily Cougar, the newspaper serving The Univer­sity of Houston. 




By MAIJA GUSTIN and MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Editor/Scene Writer 
Raymond and Eleanor 
Raymond, two, and Eleanor, one, are already preparing to be lifelong Domers. Their father is a faculty member in the bi­ology department, as well as a 1996 graduate and resident of Keenan Hall. 
He has worked here for five years now. Raymond and El­eanor get to come out to every home game, but usually don’t make it through all four quar­ters.  They love the marching band, though, especially the pre-game performance at Bond Hall. 



SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 


Friday, October 28, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 13 


The Braun Family 
Cecilia (nine), Caroline (sev­en), Eileen (four) and Blaze (two) Braun get to visit campus from Leawood, Kan., every year. 
Although their father Gordon (’99) thinks one road trip a year with four kids is plenty to han­dle, he said they love the family experience. 
“My wife and I, we both went to Notre Dame, so we try not to influence them too much, but I mean, look at them,” Gordon said. “Those are our college t-shirts on that skirt.” 
Only Cecilia and Caroline get to actually go to games right now, but Eileen and Blaze love the gameday festivities anyway. 
“They love coming back and all the shenanigans,” Gordon said. 
COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer 
COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer 
Despite their affinity for Notre Dame, the Pruitts said they will allow their children to choose the university of their picking. 
“We give them a choice. [Notre Dame picks] what dorm they’ll be living in,” the Pruitts said, “but we’re not putting any pressure on them.” 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu and Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 


Bill and Charlotte 
Bill and Charlotte, pictured with their son George, are both members of the class of 1982. They met during their sophomore year at an SYR hosted by Holy Cross Hall. 
They have since sent two children to Notre Dame, members of the class of 2011 and 2013, respectively. George, their youngest, is a potential 2020 graduate. They now come back to campus for one 
or two football games every year. 
Bill and Patty 
Bill Grady, pictured with his wife Patty, is a member of the class of 1948. 
Though he began his studies in 1941, he joined the 8th Air Force Division during World War II and put off his gradua­tion by a few years.
 He and Patty met at a Christ­mas party after the war. The two have been coming to Notre Dame football games together since 1956. 
Though they once made the trip from their home in Rock­ford, Ill., to campus for every home game, 


Patty is relieved that she fi­nally convinced Bill down to about three a year. 
They enjoy coming back though, both to see their grand­daughter, a sophomore at Saint Mary’s currently studying abroad in Rome, as well as all their old tailgating buddies. 
“The tailgate that we’ve gone to all these years is getting mighty slim,” Bill said. 
“That happens when you get to our age.” Patty added. 



The Pruitt Family 
Now married, Kristen and David Pruitt met while students at Notre Dame. 
Kristen, a resident of Lyons Hall, and David, a transfer student, had class together, and the rest is history. 
After time living in Cleveland and Washing­ton DC, the couple now reside in South Bend and make frequent visits to campus. 
page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Friday, October 28, 2011 

SPORTS AUTHORTY 

Baseball’s beauty is in the smallest details 

“Baseball is 100 times more interesting to me now than it was 45 minutes ago.” 
I heard these words after attempting to explain some of the in­tricacies of America’s pastime to someone who can only be de­scribed as a baseball novice. We had just watched the last three in­nings of the World Series betweenthe St. Louis Cardi­nals and the Texas Rangers, a game in which the Rang­ers had come back to win in spectacular fashion. And while most baseball games are interesting if one knows what to look for, games like this one are what make the sport, one which is so often criticized for being boring, great. 
In the top of 


Baseball is a game of 
the ninth for just an in-
inning, centimeters, a game of stant. after the milliseconds. It is a game The differ-Cardinals that can be affected by a ence between had taken blink of an eye, a pebble in a strike and a 1-0 the dirt or the glare of the a ball can be 
lead in nearly imper-
sun that cuts off a player’s 
the sev-ceptible, but 
vision for an instant. 
enth, the Rangers were down to their last three outs. A loss would have meant going down 2-0 in the series, a hole that, though not insurmountable, would not have been desir­able in the least. 
Rangers second base­man Ian Kinsler led off the inning with a single, and then stole second base. And that’s when the entire momentum of the game, and the momentum of the series, changed in just one play. 
Rangers shortstop Elvis Andrus hit another, seem­ingly routine base hit. Kin­sler advanced to third and Andrus took second base when the throw from the outfield ricocheted off the glove of the Cardinals all-world first baseman Albert Pujols. 
To a casual observer, this may have appeared as simply a physical mistake by Pujols which led to the Rangers scoring two runs in the inning, rather than just one. But it was so much more than that. 
When Kinsler saw that Andrus’ single was going to fall in the outfield, he took off from second base hard and rounded third like he was going to score. The Rangers third base coach had to move nearly halfway down the third base line to give Kinsler the stop signal. 
Pujols took his eye off the ball, just for a split second, noticing Kinsler rounding third base with a full head of steam. But that split sec­ond was all that it took for him to misplay the throw, allowing Andrus to take second base. 
This may seem like an incredibly miniscule oc­curence in a long game, and it is. But that’s what makes baseball so great, the most miniscule things can be­come the most important. 
Baseball is a game of centimeters, a game of milliseconds. It is a game that can be affected by a blink of eye, a pebble in the dirt or the glare of the sun 
that cuts off a 
player’s vision 
it can be the 
difference between a strikeout and a walk, the difference be­tween a win and a loss, the difference between a cham­pionship and just another season that ended without a ring. 
Baseball certainly looks boring, and can actually be boring in some circum­stances. But the Pujols error was not just an er­ror. It was the product of a multitude of thoughts racing through his head, all of which he is expected to handle without pause. He took his eye off the ball for just one moment, but in that moment may have lost his team the World Series. 
Baseball truly is a rivet­ing sport. You just need to know where to look. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.                                                                                                                              
  Contact Eric Prister at     eprister @nd.edu 
NCAA 

Board approves new reforms 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS — The scandal-plagued NCAA is moving swiftly to clean up its image. 
On Thursday, the Division I Board of Directors approved a package of sweeping re­forms that gives confer­ences the option of adding more money to scholarship offers, schools the opportu­nity to award scholarships for multiple years, imposes tougher academic standards on recruits and changes the summer basketball recruit­ing model. 
“It was one of the most ag­gressive and fullest agendas the board has ever faced,” NCAA President Mark Em­mert said. “They moved with dispatch on it, and I think they’re taking posi­tive steps for schools and student-athletes.” 
For decades, outsiders have debated whether col­lege scholarships should include more than just the cost of tuition, room and board, books and fees. Now they can. 
The board approved a measure allowing confer­ences to vote on providing up to $2,000 in spending money, or what the NCAA calls the full cost-of-atten­dance. Emmert insists it is not pay-for-play, merely the reintroduction of a sti­pend that existed for college athletes until 1972. He also compared it to the stipends received by other students who receive non-athletic scholarships. 
Some thought the total amount should have been higher. At the Big Ten’s bas­ketball media day in Chica­go, commissioner Jim Dela­ny said studies have shown the average athlete pays roughly $3,000 to $4,000 out of his or her own pocket in college costs. 
But many believe the mea­sure is long overdue. 
“I think it needs to hap­pen or else I think what’s left of the system itself is going to implode,” said Ohio University professor David Ridpath, past president of The Drake Group, an NCAA watchdog. “We’ve always lost the moral high ground by saying the educational model is what makes this thing go. I think we’re de­livering a model that can exploit kids while they’re here.” 
Extra money won’t solve all of the NCAA’s problems. 
Schools must infer the cost of additional funding and it will have to be doled out equally to men’s and women’s athletes because of Title IX rules. While BCS schools have the money and are expected to swiftly ap­prove additional funding, it may prove too costly for non-BCS schools. 
There are fears it will increase the disparity be­tween the haves and the have-nots and could prompt another round of conference realignment. 
The board also approved a measure that will give indi­vidual schools the authority to award scholarships on a multiple-year basis. 
Under the current model, those scholarships are re­newed annually and can be revoked for any reason. If adopted, schools could guarantee scholarships for the player’s entire career and would be unable to re­voke it based solely on ath­letic performance. Scholar­ships could still be pulled for reasons such as poor grades, academic miscon­duct or other forms of im­proper behavior. 
Ridpath said he’s person­ally been involved with 50 or 60 appeals cases after a coach pulled a player’s scholarship. 
“The reason usually is they find a prettier girl to bring to the dance,” he said. “If you’re Frank Beamer or Nick Saban, they make a lot of money, and they should be able to coach that kid up.” 
University presidents are moving quickly to repair the damage caused by a year full of scandals. 
Schools from Miami to Boise State, including the reigning the champions in football (Auburn) and men’s basketball (Connecticut), have all come under NCAA scrutiny. The U.S. Depart­ment of Justice started ask­ing questions about schol­arships, Congress has held hearings about a variety of NCAA-related issues and conference realignment has continued to spin wildly. 
So, the NCAA’s board went back to basics and placed a renewed emphasis on aca­demics. 
In August, the board ap­proved raising the four-year Academic Progress Rate cutline from 900 to 930 and linking that cutline to eli­gibility for postseason play. On Thursday, it passed a four-year plan to phase in the new requirements. 
During the first two years, 2012-13 and 2013-14, teams scoring below 900 on the four-year average would be ineligible for postseason play unless the averaged 930 on the two most recent years of data. In 2014-15, teams that do not hit the 930 mark would be ineli­gible unless they averaged 940 in the two most recent years. After that, everyone must hit 930, no exceptions. 
Schools that do not make the grade could also face additional penalties such as reductions in practice time and game limits, coaches suspensions, scholarship reductions and restricted NCAA membership. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

HOME FOR RENT FOOTBALL AND Great moments... are born from And you were meant to be here FOR SALE FOR RENT GRADUATION WEEKENDS. PERSONAL great opportunity. And that’s what tonight. 
you have here, tonight, boys.That’s This is your time.  Large 4BR home 1 mile north of what you’ve earned here tonight. Their time is done. Warren Golfcourse. One game.  It’s over.  
NEW 4 Bdrm near ND Fernwood  One bedroom unit w/ fullsize UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? If we played ‘em ten times, they I’m sick and tired of hearing about fridge, oven, etc. (can sleep 4) Sleeps 8 to 10. Ideal for family or Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame might win nine. But not this game. what a great hockey team the available for rent graduation week small groups. has many resources in place to Not tonight.  Soviets have.  
18416 Summer Wind Ln Cindy, 05/13 - 05/20/2012. assist you. If you or someone you Tonight, we skate with Screw ‘em. This is your time.  love needs confidential support themTonight, we stay with them. Now go out there and take it.” -  Unit is located 5 minutes from Great value.  or assistance, please call Sr. Sue And we shut them down because 574-210-4702 NDU at the Varsity Club.  Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at we can! Tonight, WE are the 1-2685. For more information, greatest hockey team in the world. Call 574-286-0081 or email visit ND’s website at: http:// You were born to be hockey Kurt Russell playing Herb Brooks At Home Realty Group Contact Mark at 847-715-9699. bpblauvelt@gmail.com pregnancysupport@nd.edu players. in “Miracle.” 
Friday, October 28, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
solidify their spots in the playoffs hard-fought victory over Walsh, However, the Whirlwinds have “We’ve been really adaptable on Sunday in an intriguing battle of 3-2 which they hope will bridge the implemented new schemes into offense,” Lindeen said. “On defense, 
Walsh teams. stagnant gap caused by the break. their offense to counter the Lyonites’ we stick to our strengths and come 
continued from page 16 
Lyons vs. Welsh Family 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
Lyons and Welsh Family look to 
Both the Lyonites (3-2) and the Whirlwinds (3-2) hope to continue their success after the one-week break. 
“We want to keep the intensity we had before break for this game, and we want to carry this into the play­offs,” Whirlwinds’ senior captain and receiver Charlotte Seasly said. 
The Lyonites are coming off a 
“We were playing great before break and we were doing things right,” Lyonites’ freshman captain Christina Bramanti said. “I just hope the break doesn’t get in the way of that.” 
Along with identical records, the Whirlwinds and Lyonites both have offenses that consist of versatile quarterbacks and strong receivers. 


attack. 
“[Senior] Natalie Baldasare is the best receiver we have, and the con­nection between her and our quar­terback [junior Vicky Moreno] is great,” Seasly said. “About the new stuff we’re adding, I don’t want to give too much away.” 
The Lyonites hope to fight off the storming Whirlwinds as they collide Sunday at 5 p.m. at LaBar Fields. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
Farley vs. Pasquerilla West 
By JAMES SOUTHARD 
Sports Writer 
Farley’s suffocating defense looks to contain the high-octane attack of Pasquerilla West in an intriguing matchup between two powerhouses. 
Farley (4-1) has only allowed 12 points on the year, riding its defense to a stellar record as it makes a push for a prime playoff seed. However, the Finest have loftier goals in mind. 
“Our goal has always been reach­ing the Stadium,” senior captain Analise Althoff said, “but we’ll try to focus on this last game and not look too far ahead as we return from break and try to get back in our groove.” 
But Althoff also knows Farley has a true challenge ahead. 
“Pasquerilla West will bring a strong passing game, so we’ll be sure to prepare for long passes,” Althoff said. 
Pasquerilla West (4-1) is tied with Farley in the division standings. A win would catapult the Purple Wea­sels into one of the top positions in the playoffs. 
“[Undefeated] Cavanaugh’s a good team, so putting off playing them would be nice,” senior captain Ali­son Lindeen said. “Being tied with Farley and playing them in the last game of the regular season is big.” 
Pasquerilla West has thrived on both sides of the field this season, Lindeen said. 
up with stops on the ground and against the pass.” 
Farley and Pasquerilla West will clash Sunday at 7 p.m. at LaBar Fields with each looking to gain an inside track on playoff seeding. 
Contact  James Southard at jsouthar@nd.edu 
Badin vs. Breen-Phillips 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
Although the matchup does not feature playoff implications, Badin and Breen-Phillips will face off Sun­day in a game that is sure to be filled with passion and excitement. 
Both Badin (1-4) and Breen-Phil­lips (0-5) view Sunday’s game as a chance to finish their disappointing seasons with a victory. According to senior captain Maria Lynch, the Babes will have to put all the pieces together to come out on top. 
“We really want to go out on a good note and play our best in every facet of the game,” Lynch said. 
While the Babes have had some bright moments this season, includ­ing scoring for the first time in two years, they want nothing more than to add a win to their record, Lynch said. 
“With how wide open this season has been, surprises can happen, and we want to surprise them,” Lynch said. 
The Bullfrogs have only one win, but according to senior captain Syl­via Banda, the players view this fi­nal game as the culmination of their improvement this season and an op­portunity to enjoy themselves. 
“It’s our last game and we just want to have fun,” Banda said. “We are just going to go out there and give it our all.” 
This regular season finale will take place Sunday at 6 p.m. at LaBar Fields. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles head to Albion for MIAA season finale 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
The Belles will travel to Albion on Friday for their final game of the season and the last match of senior Meghann Rose’s career. The South Bend native and the Belles’ lone senior will lead Saint Mary’s (7-17, 5-10 MIAA) against the Britons (3-23, 0-14) in a match between two teams that are out of contention for the MIAA champi­onship and a berth in the NCAA tournament. 
Saint Mary’s looks to halt an eight-match losing streak that has seen the Belles fall out of conten­tion and toward the bottom of the league standings. 
“It’s definitely a heartbreaker to have lost the last eight like we have. We’ve been right there, but just haven’t been able to pull out wins,” Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. “We just haven’t been playing at the level that we’re capable of.” 
Despite Albion’s winless record in-conference, it will be no push­over, Kuschel said. 
“I expect for them to play us tough,” she said. “My goal for us is to play up to our level and get a solid win to finish the season. 
While Rose is the Belles’ only se­nior, a strong cohort of underclass­men have led the team throughout the season and will do so again against the Britons. Freshman Kati Schneider leads the squad in kills, followed by juniors Stepha­nie Bodien and Allison Zandarski. The trio will marshal the offense against a plucky Albion defense that has proved to be a thorn in the sides of MIAA teams throughout the fall. 
Though the core of the team will return next year for another sea­son, for Rose, the match will be her final one in a Saint Mary’s uniform. The senior captain has started at libero since her freshman year and led the team in digs each season. 
“This is our last chance to play together as a team,” Kuschel said. “And for Meg, this will be her last chance to play with her team­mates, the girls that she’s had such an influence on over the last three years.” 
In a season that has seen Saint Mary’s fall short of its playoff as­pirations, Kuschel and the Belles hope that a win against Albion will be a welcome bright spot to end the year and an opportunity to build momentum for 2012. 
The Belles take to the court against Albion at 7 p.m. in Albion, Mich. 
Contact Conor Kelly at                      ckelly17@nd.edu 

page 16 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, October 28, 2011 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

McGlinn looks to end Ryan’s undefeated season 
Howard aims to keep three-peat dreams alive vs. Chaos; Lyons and Welsh Family to fight for playoff positioning 
By BRIAN HARTNETT Cavanaugh vs. Howard Lewis vs. Walsh and defense.” a dorm to quit or one to back Sports Writer Junior quarterback Kat Leach down.” and freshman receiver Maggie Walsh will close out its regular 
Ryan looks to finish off an By ERNST CLEOFE By JONATHAN WARREN Fisher are two offensive play-season against Lewis on Sunday undefeated regular season and Sports Writer Sports Writer makers who will try to lead the at 5 p.m. at LaBar Fields. possibly secure a No. 1 over-offense to a win over Lewis. all seed in the playoffs when it Faced with the regular sea-Walsh will look to play spoiler “It’s clear to us the talent we Contact Jonathan Warren at takes on McGlinn Sunday night. son’s last week, Howard looks on Sunday in a matchup that have,” Navarre said. “We’re jwarren3@nd.edu 
Ryan (5-0) has enjoyed great to keep its playoff hopes alive, could make or break Lewis’ pretty encouraged to have one success in only its third year while undefeated Cavanaugh playoff chances. last shot [at a win]. Walsh isn’t see WALSH/page 15 of interhall competition, as the looks to fine-tune itself before The Chicks (2-2) are currently Wildcats are one of the two un-the playoffs begin. tied with Welsh Family in the defeated teams in the league. Cavanaugh (5-0) comes into standings and find themselves Versatile junior quarterback the game undefeated with a just one point behind in the cru-Maya Pillai leads an explosive spot secured in next week’s cial point differential category. Ryan offense that has scored at playoffs. But the Chaos look Lewis needs some help from least 27 points in every contest to perform well in this game Welsh Family to make the cut, so far. in order to shake off the rust but Sunday’s game is a must­
“Having played the full sea-from an extended break be-win for the Chicks. son last year, Maya has a lot of tween games. “It would be very exciting for good experience,” senior cap-“I think it’s important with us,” senior captain Libby Red­tain and running back Brianna such a long break because of line said. “We’ve had a roll-Curtis said. “It also helps that fall break and midterms to get ercoaster season so far, so to she is both a running and pass-back into things,” Cavanaugh make it to the playoffs would be ing threat.” senior captain Maggie Fahren-pretty cool.” 
Although a three-week break bach said. “It would be great to The Chicks are coming off of could be seen as a momentum have a win and be undefeated a blowout loss to Ryan, but hope killer, Curtis said the team going into playoffs undefeat-the break gave the team time to benefited from the layoff. ed.” regroup. 
“We had some injuries, so Cavanaugh will also use this “Hopefully everyone used fall the break allowed us to heal up week to work on a few new break to get over some inju­and be ready for Sunday,” Cur-schemes to prepare for the ries and rest up,” Redline said. tis said. uncertainty of the playoffs, “We’ve been a little scattered 
McGlinn (4-1) comes into the Fahrenbach said. because of fall break and mid-game also eager to improve its “Defensively, we want to im-terms, but we’re hoping to pull playoff prospects. The Sham-plement a new defense so we it all together in practice this rocks currently sit at second have options against the dif-week.” place in the Gold Division ferent offenses we might see in Walsh (0-3-1) will have to stop standings, one game behind the playoffs,” she said. dynamic junior Lewis quar-Ryan. Meanwhile, the Ducks (2-3) terback Connaught Blood, who 
The Shamrocks have relied need a couple of games to fall broke free for a 40-yard touch-on a strong defense and late in their favor to have a shot at down run last game, in order to game heroics, as their last two the playoffs, but it all starts salvage the season. wins have come in the final two with a win against Cavanaugh, “It’s been a rough season for minutes of the game. senior captain Jenny Gassner us record-wise, but we’ve grown 
“We have had a very stout said. as a team,” Walsh junior captain defense all year long,” senior “If we win it’ll give us a Lindy Navarre said. “This week captain and quarterback Lau-chance,” Gassner said. “We’re we’ll step it up on both offense ren Miller said. “This has al-going to have to play as good as lowed us to stay in games and we’ve played all year and bet-give our offense better chances ter.” to score.” Led by a strong defense, the 
Miller said that the team Ducks hope that by improving plans to stick to its usual de-on offense they can reel in a fensive game plan and focus on crucial win. finding any way to win on of-“We’re working on imple­fense, relying on veterans like menting a new offense in senior receiver Kate Tucker. practice,” Gassner said. “And 
“We are anxious to play our biggest weakness was our again,” Miller said. “We see energy and not playing up to this game as a chance to gain what we can.” momentum going into the play-The two teams will meet offs.” with Howard pushing for the 
This battle of the two playoff-playoffs and Cavanaugh look-bound teams will take place 6 ing to smooth the kinks Sunday 
p.m. on Sunday at LaBar Fields. at 7 p.m. at LaBar Fields. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at Contact Ernst Cleofe at bhartnet@nd,edu ecleofe@nd.edu 





page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, October 28, 2011 
think we will have a good chance that the Zahmbies have been and senior running back Pat and off the field. to win on Sunday”. continuously focusing on, and Hertenstein for offensive pro-Zahm and Fisher go head-to-
Manor 

For the Mob, the game against they hope that their efforts will ductivity. Zahm will be look-head Sunday at 1 p.m. at Riehle 
continued from page 19 
Knott vs. Morrissey 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
A playoff spot is on the line when Knott and Morrissey square off in their regular sea­son finale. 
The Juggerknotts (2-1) can clinch a postseason berth with a win over the Manor (0-3). 
Despite Morrissey’s record, Knott knows from prior experi­ence it cannot look toward the playoffs. 
“We’re definitely not taking [the Manor] lightly even though they’re 0-3,” Knott senior captain Dan Shaffer said. “Last year, we had the same situation. We were 0-3 and Alumni was 3-0 and we actually beat them. They took us too lightly, so we learned from last year. We’re going to come out with guns blazing.” 
In their last game, a 3-0 win over Alumni, the Juggerknotts moved the ball well but left points on the field. 
“We drove the ball pretty well [last game],” Shaffer said. “We would move it into the red zone, but couldn’t score. We have got to finish some plays.” 
The Manor hopes to close out the season with their first win. Morrissey is focused on execut­ing and is not concerned with the game’s playoff implications for Knott. 
“[We’re going to] have fun playing football, and [we] play for pride,” Morrissey junior captain Alex Oloriz said. “We’re here to win a football game. We try to do that every game. We’re not wor­ried about the outside effects.” 
While the defense has been solid, Morrissey has struggled on offense throughout the season. 
“Last game, we had a flash of hope when we scored a touch­down,” Oloriz said. “We just need to try to do the little things right and get good execution.” 
Knott and Morrissey take the gridiron Sunday at 2 p.m. at Riehle Fields with a postseason berth for Knott at stake. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
Keough vs. O’Neill 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
With both teams looking for their first win, West Quad neigh­bors O’Neill and Keough square off Sunday in one of the best ri­valry games on campus. 
O’Neill (0-3) is coming off a close loss against Stanford in which the Mob were leading at the half. 
“Against Stanford, we moved the ball really well on the ground,” O’Neill junior receiver and captain Alex Brolick said. “If we can run like that again I Keough represents more than just a chance for the teams’ first win. 
“This game is all we have to play for now” Brolick said. “Win­ning against our rivals would be a great way to end the season.” 
On the other side of the ball, Keough (0-3) finds itself also looking for its first win. The Kan­garoos are coming off a 35-0 loss to Dillon in their last game. 
Though the Roos have yet to find the win column, Keough ju­nior captain Robby Toole believes the Kangaroos can come out on top Sunday. 
“It is our last game, so we are motivated to pull out a victory to end our season on a high note,” Toole said. “Our offense has been clicking more and more as the season has progressed. We just need to finish off drives and put the ball in the end zone.” 
Toole believes the rivalry with O’Neill would make a Keough victory even sweeter. 
“We want to win, there is no doubt about it,” Toole said. “A win over O’Neill [on] Sunday would be a great win for Keough Hall.” 
Keough and O’Neill kick off their rivalry Sunday at 3 p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 
Fisher vs. Zahm 
By ALLY DARRAGH 
Sports Writer 
Although Sunday marks the end of two disappointing sea­sons, Zahm and Fisher will meet with nothing but pride on the line. 
Fisher (1-2) is looking to go out with a bang, according to junior lineman Matt Hart. 
“We are ready to hit from the first whistle to the last,” Hart said. “With this being the last game of the regular season, it’s the last chance to affect the playoff standings.” 
In preparation for this game, the Green Wave has been focus­ing on forcing turnovers and showing consistency on offense by extending offensive drives. Fisher is expecting Zahm to be ready to come out and be tough physically on both sides of the ball. 
Zahm (0-3) is desperately looking to get a victory on Sun­day against Fisher. Although the Zahmbies’ record doesn’t reflect their love for interhall, they feel like they’ve been the true win­ners all year, senior center Ryan Costello said. 
“We are expecting about the same thing out of Fisher that we have seen all year, a team that comes out, runs the ball and plays good defense,” Costello said. “We just have to come out and do it better than them. We are excited for another fun Sun­day afternoon.” 
Blocking and tackling are both key factors of the game 


produce the win they have been  ing at senior defensive lineman  Fields.  
searching for.  Luke “The Professor” Lennon  
Fisher will be looking to soph­ and junior receiver Marty Fla- Contact Ally Darragh at  
omore quarterback Joe Paggi  vin for laughs and leadership on  adarra01@saintmarys.edu  


Friday, October 28, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 19 

MEN’S INTERHALL 

Keenan and Stanford ‘Battle for Chapel,’ playoffs 
Rivals Keough and O’Neill to fight for first win; Seigfried looks to complete perfect season against Duncan 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
Stanford and Keenan will face off this weekend in the Battle for the Chapel with play­off hopes on the line. These ri­val dorms, which share a chapel and common entrance, are both in position to make the playoffs. 
The Griffins (2-1) know that this game will likely determine the fate of their season. 
“If we win, we’ll most likely get in the playoffs,” junior cap­tain Paul Babiak said. “If we lose, it’s uncertain.” 
Babiak said Stanford is not underestimating the Knights. 
“This game will be a test. They look really good,” Babiak said. “On defense, we need to watch out for their receivers who will pose a threat.” 
Offensively, the Griffins want to make use of all their players. 
“We need to spread out the field,” Babiak said. “We need to use all our weapons.” 
Keenan (3-0) is coming into its final regular season game with confidence. 
“Things have been going well for us this year despite all the challenges,” senior captain Erik Blackwood said. “We had a lot of injuries this season, but managed to play well through­out.” 
After a bye week followed by fall break, Keenan is hoping to get back on track. 
“We need to just come out aggressive and also shut down their offense,” Blackwood said. 
Both teams are aware of the matchup’s importance. 
“It’s always a lot of fun talk­ing smack against those guys,” Blackwood said, “but Sunday, we expect to win.” 
Stanford is also looking for­ward to the contest. 
“The future of our season is in our hands,” Babiak said. 
From the playoffs to bragging rights, there is a lot at stake when Stanford takes on Keen­an at 3 p.m. Sunday at Riehle Fields. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 
St. Edwards vs. Sorin 
By STEPHANIE BANTA 
Sports Writer 
St. Edward’s and Sorin will meet Sunday afternoon in the grudge match of the season. 
The Gentlemen (2-1) were the only team to beat Sorin in the 2010 season and are looking for a repeat performance. 
“We are ready to stop Sorin from making it to the playoffs again,” St. Edward’s senior re­ceiver Joe Ricioli said. “They are a good team, but we are confident and ready.” 
After a rough start to the season, the Gentlemen look to use the momentum from two straight victories to dominate Sunday’s game. 
“We have had some great practices this week,” Ricioli said. “There are a lot of young players on the team and they have been playing really well. Their improvement and the strength of our senior players have made us a strong unit.” 


But Sorin (2-0-1) is ready to defend its championship and prove to St. Edward’s that win­ning last year was a fluke. 
“After losing to St. Edward’s, we went on to have six straight victories,” Sorin junior captain and quarterback Ted Spinelli said. “It shook us up and turned out to be a benefit to our season rather than a detriment.” 
The Otters are using this experience to help keep the pregame jitters to a minimum and maintain their endurance through four quarters. 
“We are feeling good and are confident in our abilities,” Spi­nelli said. “We are looking to have fun on Sunday and beat up on St. Edward’s.” 
St. Edward’s and Sorin face off at 2 p.m. Sunday at Riehle Fields. 
Contact Stephanie Banta at sbanta01@saintmarys.edu 
Siegfried vs. Duncan 
By ANDREW CARDOZA 
Sports Writer 
This Sunday, Siegfried and Duncan will battle it out as both look to add another victory to the win column in a game that could affect playoff positioning. 
Duncan (1-2) is coming off a bye. They have used the extra time to rest and make adjust­ments to clean up any mistakes. Highlander junior captain Neil Eveld knows that they are going to have to play their best game of the year to keep pace with the Ramblers (3-0). 
“Siegfried is the best team in the division,” Eveld said. “They have a good running attack, and we are going to have to be sure to make the open field tackles.” 
The Highlanders have a very solid defense, having allowed only 13 points on the season. Eveld knows that for the High­landers to win this game, they will need a team effort. The Highlanders need the win in or­der to have a chance of earning a playoff berth. A loss guaran­tees elimination. 
“Everyone knows how impor­tant this game is,” Eveld said. “We are treating this game as a playoff play-in game.” 
Meanwhile, the Ramblers are seeking an undefeated season and a No. 1 seed. Rambler se­nior captain John Aversa knows that Duncan is playing for a playoff spot and expects them to come out with intensity. 
“We’re looking to play fast, physical football,” Aversa said. “This has been our goal all year. We just need to match their intensity because they will be hungry for a win.” 
The Ramblers are already guaranteed a playoff spot, but the win puts them in position to possibly grab the No. 1 seed. Siegfried has a strong running game and the ability of the of­fensive line to open up the holes will be a key to beating the Highlanders. 
Siegfried and Duncan square off at 1 p.m. Sunday at Riehle Fields with playoff implications on the line. 
Contact Andrew Cardoza at acardoza@nd.edu 
see MANOR/page 18 

page 20 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, October 28, 2011 

MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
ND to renew rivalry with matchup at Pitt 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
The inexperienced Irish will travel to Big East rival Pitts­burgh for their first road meet of the season. 
Following two second-place finishes already this season, Notre Dame has continued its training in preparation for a tough matchup against the Panthers. 
The Irish (2-1) will serve as Pittsburgh’s (1-1) first taste of competition at home and first Big East opponent of the sea­son. Trees Hall, home of the Panthers, has been named the site of the 2012 Big East tour­nament. 
“The Pittsburgh team and the Notre Dame team have a great rivalry over the years, and it is a college competition at its best,” Irish coach Tim Welsh said. “It is a very in­tense, competitive experience, but it is also very high on great sportsmanship. It’s got great spirit, intense competition. I think it’s going to be a very, very competitive meet.” 
Irish sophomore Frank Dyer led the Irish to two second-place finishes on Oct. 14 and 15, where the Irish finished behind Michigan in each meet. Dyer earned gold in the 100­yard and 200-yard freestyle races. 
Notre Dame senior co-cap­tain Marshall Sherman said the Irish are counting on Dy­er’s experience against their out-of-state rival. 
“Frankie Dyer, our sopho­more, is probably definitely our standout,” Sherman said. “We typically have a couple guar­anteed victories out of him.” 
Notre Dame’s squad enters its rivalry meet with 16 fresh­men on the roster . 12 swim­mers and four divers. Simply glancing at such an inexperi­enced roster might cause the team to lose confidence, but the Irish sense this is a special class of freshmen. 
Welsh said he remains con­fident in this particular group, despite a looming test in the team’s first meet on the road. 
“This is a mature group of freshmen with a great deal of experience in their back­ground. We expect them to be fine, but it is their first meet on the road, so we’ll see,” Welsh said. “The major advantage for us is that the Big East champi­onships are also at Pittsburgh, so this is early season dress rehearsal for what will be our conference championship. If we’re going to win on Friday, the freshmen will play a part. We can’t win without them.” 
Irish junior co-captain Chris Johnson said he believes the freshmen provide energy un­like anything this Irish team has seen before. 
“The strength is that we are so young. Guys are coming in ready to go. They’re excited about being on a collegiate team,” he said. “They’re ready to race in whatever meet we have. They’re looking to go fast. Just the group of guys that we have right now, they like training hard. That’s a definite plus. Guys that like working hard and like sticking together and practicing is a big advantage.” 
A challenging workout at practice on Wednesday pro­vided the co-captains with a chance to lead this young group of swimmers by ex­ample. 
“Number one, [I am] trying to guide them because the team is so new, and stuff that in years past we’ve been able to take for granted … now we kind of [have] to walk them through it at least once,” Johnson said. “At the same time, it’s a great opportunity just to give them an example that they can look up to, and hopefully they’ll take that, in­ternalize it and be that some­one else somewhere down the road.” 
The Irish will begin compe­tition at Pittsburgh on Friday at 4 p.m. at Trees Hall. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 


SMC SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Belles set to begin MIAA play 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Belles will kick off their regular season with a Friday night dual meet against Ka­
lamazoo. 
Belles coach ishek said Saint Mary’s is expecting a strong perfor­mance from 
the  Hornets,  
who  finished  
last  season  

with a third-place finish at the MIAA cha mpion ­ships after compiling a 4-2 confer­ence record during the 
Mark Ben-
regular season. The Kalam­azoo women also sent four swimmers to the NCAA Divi­sion III Swimming Champi­onships. 
“I think they’re strong across the board,” Benishek said. “They’re one of the top teams in our conference. We know they have some great breaststrokers on their team, and I know that they have some pretty good freestylers as 

“They’re strong across the board. They’re one of the top teams in our conference.” 
Mark Benishek Swimming Coach 
well, especially sprinters.” 
While the schedule lists Kalamazoo as the Belles’ opponent on Friday, Ben­ishek said that the squad is also focused on beating the mental mis­takes that plague many teams early in the season. 
“I think, especially with it being the first meet of the sea­son, we’ll be trying to limit some of the small mistakes for our team [and] just swimming smart,” Benishek said. “It’s been about a month’s worth of training that we’ve had so far, so we work a lot on technique and things of that nature at the beginning of the season to set the right foot forward.” 
Benishek expects tight rac­es between Hornets sopho­more Molly DeWald and Saint Mary’s senior captain Audrey Dalrymple in the breaststroke events. 
“They have a really great breaststroker [in DeWald]. She usually challenges our breast-stroker, Audrey Dalrymple, and there’s a really good com­petition between the two,” Benishek said. “Last year they were only a second apart, and both were just off the NCAA qualifying time in the first meet of the season.” 
The Belles will jump out of the blocks at 7 p.m. on Friday at the Rolfs Aquatics Center. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at           vjacobse@nd.edu 


Friday, October 28, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 21 
Brown 
continued from page 24 
take care of business. 
“I really don’t worry about the letdown because we have so much unfinished business and so much left to prove,” Brown said. “We are really focused and really de­termined. I don’t think our team is looking at it like ‘This team isn’t very good, we can relax.’ UConn and St John’s, I think, are bet­ter than some of the teams we’ve played with better conference re­cords. They both have some pretty gifted players and have just not been consistent.” 
Looking forward, Brown said her team would likely not have a chance to finish atop the confer­ence due to losses to Villanova, Cincinnati and Louisville. Howev­er, she said the Irish will be com­petitive in the Big East tournament due to their improved play down the stretch. 
“From the beginning, we put a huge emphasis on Big East play,” she said. “When we lost the match­es we did early on, we knew we put ourselves in a tight spot. We’ve just got to finish as high as we possibly can. It’s probably unlikely we can have part of the regular season championship, but we’ll have a shot at the tournament champi­onship.” 
Brown remains confident the Irish can put together a strong performance this weekend to generate momentum heading into the final matches of the year. 
“Finishing strong is really im­portant,” she said. “That’s the time of the year when you need to be playing the best and being the strongest. It’s not like you can cruise through the early part of the year, but it is important to play well at the end.” 
Contact Cory Bernard at        cbernard@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles to host Trine on Senior Day 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Belles look to send off their seniors with a memorable win Saturday morning when they take on Trine in an MIAA battle. 
A victory would give Saint Mary’s (9-9, 5-9 MIAA) a winning record and guarantee the team a record above .500 for the season. The Belles ended a four game los­ing streak Wednesday when they scored two goals on Albion after being shut out in three straight matches. 
Trine is not coming off such a positive result. The Thunder were tied with Kalamazoo at the end of regulation Wednesday, but lost just three minutes into over­time when the Hornets’ first shot of the extra period found its way into the goal. The result was dis­appointing for sophomore goal­keeper Kate Wegert, who had kept the score tied and recorded eight saves while her team was out-shot 26-6. 
Although Trine (3-12-2, 1-11­2) has not enjoyed much success this season, Belles coach Michael Joyce said the Thunder could be a greater challenge than their re­cord might suggest. 
“They are an aggressive and physical team, so we’ll have to come ready to battle,” Joyce said. “At this point in the season, all teams are a little fatigued and beat up. The team that can put that to the side and compete at a high and intense level will be in good shape. [The Thunder] are a tough team to score on, so we’ll have to finish our chances.” 
The Belles will also have to ad­just to the Trine coaching staff’s personnel decisions. 
“It will be interesting to see where their senior Jen Wall plays. She is extremely talented. She’s been a top striker in the league, but has played goalie a bit for them this year,” Joyce said. “We’ll keep an eye on where they play her. 
The Belles will honor five se­niors on Saturday: midfielders Taylor Paton and Michelle Leon­ard and defenders Keely Noon-an and Michelle Marshall and forward Katelyn Tondo-Steel. Marshall and Tondo-Steele both served as team captains this season. 
“I think we’re feeling good about Saturday . sending the se­niors off with a memorable day,” Joyce said. “The seniors are a talented bunch and the heart of the team. It will be tough to see them go.” 
As much as the Belles want to honor the seniors, Joyce said the players still need to avoid letting the emotion of the event distract them from the game itself. 
“It can go either way with emotional days . sometimes it throws players off, sometimes it motivates them,” Joyce said. “We have a competitive group, so we should be in good shape.” 
Saint Mary’s will kick off its Senior Day match against Trine at 11 a.m. on Saturday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at              vjacobse@nd.edu 
17 goals, was recently named to the Top Drawer Soccer and 
Kelly 
“Our Game Magazine” national 
teams of the week, while earn-continued from page 24 ing Big East Conference Offen­
sive Player of the Week honors. the Marquette attack, which “It was a great way to finish ranks first in the Big East in off her home stand here. Ev-goals, goals per game, assists ery game she is on the brink and points. Kelly has scored of having that kind of game. 14 goals combined, along with That is just how good she is,” 10 assists this season, to rank Waldrum said. “[What] a lot of second in the Big East behind people don’t realize is that she Irish senior forward Melissa has always had someone else Henderson. Kelly played a key to kind of play off of to carry role in the 3-2 overtime win a lot of the load. This year has 
over  Notre  basically been  
Dame, chip- about  Mel.  
ping in a goal and an assist. But Wal­drum is con­ “It’s going to come down to being ready to fight for 90 minutes, and I think we are.”  Teams are just putting double and triple teams on her and try  
fident  his  to take her out  
team has m a t u r e d  Randy Waldrum Irish coach  of the game.” W al d ru m  

greatly since the devas­tating over­time loss, when the Irish gave up an early goal 30 seconds into the game and the game-winner 18 seconds into over­time. 
“We were in a tough spot in the season and we worked so hard on getting rid of those mental lapses, but gave up two early goals,” he said. “We are at quite a different place in the season now.  Having [senior All-American mid­fielder] Courtney Barg back in the lineup is going to definite­ly change things. I think we are a different team entirely. 
“Our kids have played in re­ally big games this year and I don’t think the crowd is going to affect us. It’s going to come down to being ready to fight for 90 minutes, and I think we are.” 
Henderson, who is com­ing off a school-record tying four-goal performance Oct. 21 against DePaul, leads the Irish attack. The senior, who ranks fifth in the nation with expects his 
All-American 
forward to shine heading into her final collegiate postseason, adding that “believing” is the key to the postseason, something the Irish know all too well in the prestigious coach’s tenure. 
“We always talk to [Melissa] about being more aggressive. Sometimes she is not selfish enough,” Waldrum said. “We want her to have more of a dag­ger, and sometimes she doesn’t have that personality, but she has gotten better at it. She knows that she is counted on and she gets that. 
“This team has fought every inch of the way and this team has never really given up at all. They believe that when we get to the end, we will be ready for it. We are really talented and had some things not bounce our way, but we believe, and it’s all about believing.” 
The Irish face Marquette at 2 
p.m. on Sunday. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at     agastel1@nd.edu 


page 22 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, October 28, 2011 
Clark 
continued from page 24 
After clinching a Big East tournament berth in its victory over Providence on Wednes­day, Notre Dame (8-3-4, 4-2-1 Big East) returns home for the first time since Oct. 8, when it held then-No. 1 Connecticut to a scoreless draw. Notre Dame has not lost at home all season, but has not notched a win at Alum­ni Stadium since Sept. 24. 
“It’s nice to get back home for sure,” Clark said. “It’s a big game for so many different rea­sons. You’ve got to win your re­maining games.” 
The Irish have lost their last two meetings against West Vir­ginia by one goal apiece. 
“They’ve had our number the past two years,” Clark said. “Both games we’ve played well in and we thought we deserved more, but we lost both of them. I feel we’re certainly due some­thing, but you only get wins be­cause you play well.” 
The Irish carry with them three consecutive wins over conference opponents, all on the road. The stretch marks the second time this year Notre Dame has scored two or more goals in three consecutive games. 
“I don’t think anything has changed [during the three game winning streak],” Clark said. “I think we’ve been play­ing well all season. This team has played as well as any team I’ve ever had here.” 
In the 2-1 victory over the Fri­ars on Wednesday, senior mid­fielder Brendan King and soph­omore midfielder Harry Shipp notched goals for the Irish. Shipp is now tied with junior forward Ryan Finley for the team lead in goals. Sophomore forward Leon Brown and senior defender Greg Klazura chipped in one assist each. 
Despite a last-minute goal from the Friars, the Notre Dame defense held strong again. The match marked the sixth con­secutive game the Irish have al­lowed one goal or less, a streak dating back to a 1-1 tie against Northwestern on Oct. 5. Prior to the streak, the Irish fell in a 2-1 double-overtime loss to St. John’s on Oct. 1. 
“We lost at St. John’s, but we played superbly well,” Clark said. “If you look through the games we’ve lost, we’ve actually played pretty well.” 
Irish senior goalkeeper Will Walsh has anchored the strong Notre Dame defense, posting five shutouts and a 0.80 goals against average. 
The Mountaineers (9-6-1, 5-3-0) enter the game hav­ing won five of their last seven games, including a 2-0 victory over Seton Hall on Wednesday. 
“They’re very good, very ath­letic, very strong, big [and] fair­ly direct,” Clark said. 
Senior defender Raymon Gad-dis, a preseason All-Big East se­lection, has missed the last two games for West Virginia due to an ankle injury sustained dur­ing its 2-0 win over then-No. 1 Connecticut. His status against the Irish is unknown. 
Junior midfielder Shadow Sebele has six goals and a team-high seven assists for the Mountaineers, while freshman forward Andy Bevin has netted a team-high seven goals. 
Sebele, a Zimbabwe product, and Bevin, a New Zealand na­tive, are two of the four non-Americans on the Mountaineer roster. By comparison, the Irish have zero international players. 

“They’re well organized,” positioning Saturday at noon at Clark said. “It won’t be an easy Alumni Stadium. task for sure.” 
Notre Dame and West Vir-Contact Matthew DeFranks at   ginia will jockey for conference mdefrank@nd.edu 

Lee 
continued from page 24 
games],” senior defenseman Sean Lorenz said. “We need to make sure we come out strong in the start. It started with RPI and hopefully [we will] contin­ue it at Bowling Green.” 
Lee leads the No. 5 Irish with eight goals, while sophomore center T.J. Tynan leads Notre Dame with nine assists. The pair pace the team with 11 points apiece. 
In goal, Jackson has em­ployed the services of both ju­nior Mike Johnson and sopho­more Steven Summerhays. Johnson, who has started each Friday night game, has posted a .896 save percentage and a 2.33 goals against aver­age. Summerhays, meanwhile, owns a .821 save percentage and a 4.61 goals against aver­age. 
Last year, the Irish beat Bowling Green (4-1-1, 1-1-0-0) in three of the four meetings, outscoring the Falcons 15-8. 
“Every year is a new year. We’re going to have to be pre­pared for some tough road hockey,” Jackson said. “They have a really young team that kind of mirrors us last year.” 
Bowling Green returns to action after splitting a pair of games against CCHA foe No. 19 Lake Superior State last week­end. On Friday, junior goalten­der Andrew Hammond stopped all 19 Laker shots he faced in helping the Falcons to a 1-0 shutout win. During Saturday’s contest, the Falcons allowed a season-high 37 shots in a 4-1 loss, marking the first time the Falcons had been outshot this season. 
“[They are] young, fast, up-tempo,” Lorenz said. “They always work hard. They’re pretty disciplined. They’re well-coached and they’re going to work hard.” 
Sophomore forward Cam­den Wojtala and freshman 


is arguably a more competitive field, with seven teams ranked 
Carlson 
in the USTFCCCA national top 

30, including four ranked in continued from page 24 the top 10. The No. 23 Irish 
face off against No. 4 Villa-do well at this meet. Our goal nova, No. 6 Georgetown, No. 7 is to win, and we have a very Providence, No. 18 West Vir­good chance of doing that if we ginia and No. 28 Connecticut. have a good day.” Velarde remains confident in 
In the men’s previous two Notre Dame’s ability to take on races, the team has placed 11th the fierce competition. and 19th, re-“Our goal spectively. is [to finish Between the “Our goal is [to finish in] the top Notre Dame in] the top four.” four,” she Invitation -said. “It will al and last be hard, but 
Jordan Carlson 
week’s Wis-I have confi­
senior captain 
consin Adidas dence in our Invitational, team that we the squad has can do well. defeated six ranked teams. There are bragging rights for 
Rachel Velarde, the women’s the conference title. It is also a squad’s senior captain, said very good opportunity for us to the team has put in a lot of beat some highly ranked teams hard work in preparation for and get some at-large points this meet. for Nationals.” 
“Our team has been working Velarde, Carlson and the rest very hard the past couple of of the Irish runners will hit the weeks for this race,” she said. course Saturday. The men’s “Fall break gave us the oppor-race takes place at 11 a.m., tunity to work really hard as a while the women’s contest be-team and grow closer.” gins at 11:50 a.m. 
When the women’s team takes the course to run the Contact Laura Coletti at              6-kilometer race, it faces what lcoletti@nd.edu 
forward Ryan Carpenter lead the Falcons with seven and six points, respectively. The Bowl­ing Green offense currently ranks last in the CCHA in scor­ing, netting just 2.17 goals per game. 
“Bowling Green is an up-tempo team and I think they’re going to give us a bit of a chal­lenge,” Lorenz said. “I think we’re prepared for it. We’ve been gearing up well.” 
The Irish and Falcons take the ice Friday and Saturday night in Bowling Green, Ohio. Both games start at 7:05 p.m. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

Friday, October 28, 2011 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JUMBLE HENRy ARNOLD 

THE LONDON EXPRESS ALEx GRISWOLD and LEE HAGGENJOS 
MIKE ARGIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Friday, October 28, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 24 
DO NOT PLACE ANYTHING IN THIS AREA 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Crunch time 
Irish begin Big East championships at No. 15 Golden Eagles 

By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
In Irish coach Randy Wal­drum’s 13 years as head coach, never has Notre Dame gone on the road to start the Big East tournament. But this season has been a year of firsts for the defending-national champion Irish, who are now thrust head­first into the role of underdog heading into a matchup at No. 15 Marquette in the Big East quarterfinals. 
“We have never been on the road for a quarterfinal game,” Waldrum said, “but this season has been new and different. To finish third is unusual from us, but we made this bed and we are ready for the challenge.” 
This matchup of powerhouse Big East squads brings history, as the Golden Eagles (17-2, 10-1 Big East) contributed to Notre Dame’s early-season struggles with a 3-2 overtime win Sept. 26 in Milwaukee. But Waldrum said the Irish (9-6-3, 6-3-2) view the game as a resume booster for the NCAA tournament rath­er than an opportunity for re­venge. 
“Sure the girls have em­braced this opportunity to get them again, but we are still bat­tling for a big playoff spot in the NCAA tournament,” Waldrum said. “The picture is much big­ger than just the Big East and we are embracing the challenge of it. It’s a legitimate chance to strengthen our NCAA bid and it’s also a chance to catch a re­ally good team early.” 
Sophomore forward Maegan Kelly, a member of the 2010 Big East All-Rookie Team, leads 
see KELLY/page 21 


ND VOLLEYBALL 
Notre Dame heads east for two matches 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
With a trip to Hawaii already under their belts, the Irish have more travelling on the horizon. 
Notre Dame (12-8, 4-3 Big East) will fly to Connecticut on Saturday to take on the Huskies and bus to New York to play St. John’s on Sunday, all before fly­ing back in time for Monday’s classes. 
Irish coach Debbie Brown said the travelling might seem unusual to some of the players considering the roster features a healthy number of young ath­letes. 
“I think [playing on the road] can be difficult from that as­pect,” Brown said of the con­stant travel. “It’s not too bad unless you’re sitting for a really long time, then it becomes more difficult. It’s a little bit different for the younger players who have maybe never been to these cities. It’s always a new experi­ence.” 
Notre Dame heads east after an easy three-set victory over South Florida last Sunday. With another few matches against sub-.500 opponents in Connect­icut (11-12, 1-7) and St. John’s (10-15, 1-7) on the radar, Brown said she expects her team to 
see BROWN/page 21 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Both squads look for a win at conference meet 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
The Irish travel to Louis­ville this weekend to partici­pate in the Big East champi­onships at E.P. Sawyer State Park. Both the men’s and women’s squads expect to face a challenging field of competition. 
The men’s squad opens the day with an 8-kilometer race. Among the men’s field are two teams ranked in the United States Track and Field and Cross Country Associa­tion (USTFCCCA) poll top 25 in No. 14 Providence and No. 16 Villanova. Other teams in­clude Louisville and George­town, which are also current­ly receiving national votes, and Syracuse, which has been ranked during the season. 
Senior captain Jordan Carl­son is very confident in his team’s ability to place well. 
“We haven’t won this meet in quite a while, and I think it’s the best opportunity we’ve had in a long time,” he said. “We are very deep as a team this year, so a lot of guys can 
see CARLSON/page 22 


HOCKEY 

Squad leaves new home to face Bowling Green 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
This one will be without bells, without whistles, without ban­ners and without grand open­ings. This will just be hockey. 
After debuting the sparkling Compton Family Ice Arena last Friday, the Irish will abandon their new home and travel to Bowling Green for a pair of conference contests. 
“I’m looking forward to ac­tually playing on the road and getting away from here for a few days,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “That’s where your team has to learn to play more intelligently, play with more discipline.” 
Notre Dame (3-2-0, 1-1-0­0 CCHA), propelled by three goals from sophomore forward Anders Lee, downed RPI 5-2 in the opener at the new building. Junior defenseman Sam Cal­abrese chipped in three assists during the game, while two other Irish players also had two assists. 
“He’s carrying on from where he finished last year,” Jackson said of Lee. “He was our lead­ing goal-scorer last year and I expect him to do the same this year.” 
The game marked the first time since the season opener that Notre Dame did not allow the opponent to score first. In each of the past three games, the Irish fell behind 2-0. They won two of those games. 
“We’ve really been trying to focus on [our slow starts in 
see LEE/page 22 


MEN’S SOCCER 

ND looks to lock up NCAA bid 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
With a Big East tourna­ment berth secured, the No. 14 Irish will turn their focus to a larger bid: the NCAA tournament. 
The Irish look to extend their winning streak to a season-high four games when they welcome No. 25 West Virginia to Alumni Stadium on Saturday. Irish coach Bobby Clark said he views the upcoming contest as a golden opportunity to achieve a goal as well. 
“If we win this game, that will pretty much lock down a bid for the NCAAs,” Clark said. “If you make the NCAAs, you know it’s been a good year. You can’t win the NCAAs unless you make the tournament.” 
see CLARK/page 22 





