the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Studentsto meet with police 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
As student government turnover approaches Friday, the outgoing administration finalized an agreement this week to establish formal meetings throughout the year between student body lead­ers and local law enforce­ment. 
“This serves as a commit­ment to the student body, community and law enforce­ment leaders towards goals of safety and communica­tion,” the agreement stated. 
The document included sig­natures from St. Joseph County Sheriff Michael Grzegorek, South Bend Chief of Police Darryl Boykins and Indiana State Excise Police District Commander Lt. Tim Cleveland. Notre Dame Security Police Chief Phillip Johnson and Vice President of Student Affairs Fr. Tom Doyle also signed the agree­ment. 
Student body president Catherine Soler added her signature to the document to represent future students in her current position. 
After a spike in off-campus arrests in the fall, Soler and her administration reached out to local law enforcement on behalf of the student body. 
“We all felt that it really made a difference for stu­dents to interact with police officers,” she said. 
Soler said the agreement lays a foundation for a good relationship between stu­dents and local law enforce­ment in the future. 
“[This relationship] has to be a priority,” she said. “This affects so many people, stu­dents on-campus and off-campus, the administration, the community.” 
Doyle said the agreement built a foundation for the leadership of future student government administrations. 
“As new student leaders are elected each year, they will reap the benefit of the bridge building done by Catherine, Andrew and Nick and the dedication of Chief Boykins, Sheriff Grzegorek, Lieutenant Cleveland and Chief Johnson,” he said. “It 
see POLICE/page 4 

LONDON 



Time for tea 
Students abroad in London build community, experience traditions 

By SARAH MERVOSH 
London Correspondent 
LONDON — On any given Tuesday afternoon, Notre Dame students studying abroad in London can only be found in one place — the London Undergraduate Program Library. 
But they are not there to use the abundance of books or to find a quiet place to study. In fact, the library is anything but quiet. 
Students, teachers and administrators gather each Tuesday around noon for “tea time, ” during which the London study abroad commu­nity socializes and enjoys hot tea and an assortment of cookies. 
Alice Tyrell, the librarian at the Notre Dame London Centre who is known by stu­dents as “Miss Alice,” has been hosting tea time for five years. 
Originally, she began tea time as a way to get to know students so they would be more comfortable asking her questions about research. 
“I wanted students to get used to coming into the library and make it really easy for people to ask me questions, ” Tyrell said. 
see LONDON/page 5 



AT&T improves cell coverage 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
When sophomore Caitlin Koscielski walked into her dorm last year, she said she was guar­anteed to lose her cellphone call. 
“If I was walking into Badin and talking on the phone, I would lose the call by the time I got to the fourth floor,” she said. “But now I can continue up the stairs and into my room without losing it.” 
Koscielski’s cellphone carrier is AT&T. Her coverage improved over past months after AT&T improved its service across Notre Dame. 
AT&T representative Jennifer Thomas said the upgrade would 
see PHONE/page 6 




Football announces newprices 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame announced game times and ticket prices 
Wednesday  for  the  2011  
football season.  
The  Oct.  22  matchup  

against USC is set for a 7:30 
p.m. kickoff and will be the first night game at Notre Dame Stadium since the No. 2 Irish defeated Michigan 28-24 on Sept. 15, 1990. 
“While we will do this only on a selective basis, we think it is important to occasional­ly use the platform of a prime-time game to promote the University and our foot­ball program,” Notre Dame athletics director Jack Swarbrick said in a press release distributed by the University. 
“When you look back at the previous home night games we’ve played, a num­ber of those have been hall­mark events in the history of our program. We are confi­dent this year’s USC game will continue that tradition.” 
The home games against South Florida (Sept. 3), Michigan State (Sept. 17), Air Force (Oct. 8) and Navy (Oct. 29) are all slated for 
see SEASON/page 4 



CD to aid Haiti relief efforts 

By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
Coldplay. Madonna. Dr. Jeffrey Jacobs, Saint Mary’s professor. 
These three people have one thing in common – they are all musicians who have contributed to the Haiti relief efforts. 
Jacobs is a professor of music and a world-renowned pianist, who will soon join the ranks of other 
see CD/page 3 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Public house makes changes page 3  Viewpoint page 8  Social Media Mash-up page 10  RB goes down page 20 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Thursday, March 31, 2010 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU HAD A VENDING MACHINE IN YOUR ROOM, WHAT WOULD BE IN IT?
THE OBSERVER 







P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Megan Doyle Andrew Owens Caitlin Housley Andrew Christian Myers Gastelum 
Graphics Katie Heit Sofia Iturbe Scene Photo Troy Mathew Tom La Viewpoint Meghan Thomassen 


OFFBEAT 

English tabby poised to set world record for loud purring 
LONDON — A gray-and­white tabby by the name of Smokey has cat-apulted to fame with purring so loud it has been recorded at a poten­tially record-setting 73 deci­bels. 
“Sometimes she purrs so loudly it makes her cough and splutter,” Adams said on a website devoted to the cat, which was rescued from a shelter about three years ago. Smokey “even manages to purr while she eats.” 
Hoping to see Smokey rec­ognized as top cat, Adams asked Northampton College in central England to provide the equipment needed to submit a world-record application. 
The recording has been submitted to Guinness World 
Cara O’Connor  Dan Brown  John Mullaney  Robbie Colas  Tyler Moorhead  
sophomore  freshman  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Regina  Alumni  Dillon  off campus  Dillon  

“Pupusas.” “Chipotle.” “Whole milk “Boxers and “Natty Light and Jimmy Johns.” and cookie alcohol-free dough.” 4Loko.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

Records, the college said. 

Guinness World Records spokeswoman Amarilis Whitty said she is eagerly awaiting the recording. 
“She is LOUD VERY LOUD and keeps going,” Adams said on the website, adding: “She is one very happy pussycat and wants to tell the whole world how happy she is.” 
Message in a bottle found 24 years after thrown in sea 
MOSCOW — Nearly a quar­ter-century after a German boy tossed a message in a bot­tle off a ship in the Baltic Sea, he’s received an answer. 
A 13-year-old Russian, Daniil Korotkikh, was walking with his parents on a beach when he found a bottle with a letter inside. 
His father, who knows schoolboy German, translated the letter, carefully wrapped in cellophane and sealed by a medical bandage. 
It said: “My name is Frank, and I’m five years old. My dad and I are traveling on a ship to Denmark. If you find this letter, please write back to me, and I will write back to you.” 
The letter, dated 1987, included an address in the town of Coesfeld. 
The boy in the letter, Frank Uesbeck, is now 29. His par­ents still live at the letter’s address. 
The Russian boy and the German man met each other earlier this month via an Internet video link. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
The College of Engineering will host a seminar titled, “Reaching Beyond 1 Kilometer: Nakheel Super Tall Tower,” in room 129 of DeBartolo Hall. The seminar will take place from 3:30 to 
4:30 p.m. today and is the lat­est seminar in the Challenges and Innovations in Civil and Environmental Engineering series. 
Tonight from 5 to 7 p.m. the Irish softball team will face Purdue in Melissa Cook Stadium. Student admission is free. Tickets are $5 for adults and $3 for seniors and youth. 
The film “The Imaginarioum of Dr. Parnassus” is playing in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center from 7 to 9 p.m. tonight. It is the story of a travelling show where mem­bers of the audience get an irresistible opportunity to choose between light and dark­ness. 
In the Notre Dame Conference Center in McKenna Hall the conference titled, “Catholic Diasporas: The Irish and Mexicans in America,” will begin at 7:30 
p.m. tonight. 
The Black Students Association is hosting its annu­al film festival in LaFortune tonight. The film “House Party” will be shown from 9 to 

11:30 p.m. and refreshments will be provided. 
During the concert “Best of Acousticafe” this year’s best Acousticafe performers will play from 10 pm to midnight at Legends. Free food will be served. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight FRIDAY saturday sunday monday 



CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 

49 32 HIGH 4944 4947
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


45 27 LOW 3332 3834 






Thursday, March 31, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 





Pub proposes major changes 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Major changes, including a new name, are ahead for Kildare’s as the local pub changes hands, said Angela Maternowski, director of mar­keting and events at the restau­rant. 
Students and community members can suggest new names for the pub on Kildare’s Facebook page or at the Eddy Street location, Maternowski said. Kildare’s began collecting suggestions April 4 and the own­ers have received hundreds of suggestions so far. They will nar­row the possibilities down to three names for the final vote. 
“As the community’s public house, we thought it would be nice for our guests to suggest our new name,” she said. “We have been accepting suggestions since St. Patrick’s Day.” 
The new name will be announced April 16. 

Changes to the pub’s menu will also be incorporated by mid-April. Maternowski said some menu changes could include using more food products from local providers. 
“Many of our items will be the same, but with better quality ingredients, and some other aspects of our menu will be completely revamped,” she said. “Prices will be adjusted as the plates are but … we will still keep your favorites.” 
Kildare’s general manager Rick Stoner said the surface changes stem from a shift in the pub’s ownership. 
“With the change, we will become a local, independent pub,” Stoner said. 
Prior to the change, Kildare’s ownership was split between a group of local owners and the Kildare’s corporation. The local owners bought the corporate portion of the Eddy Street loca­tion and are now the sole body of ownership for the pub. 

“Kildare’s ownership has been transferred from two separate co-ownership parties to one sole ownership group,” Stoner said. Stoner said the group of local owners and much of the staff is composed of Notre Dame alumni and students, as well as commu­nity members. 
“One of the greatest things about the University is its pride in community and tradition, and all of our staff — alumni and others — have been having a great time working into that mantra,” he said. 
The Eddy Street location, one of six total corporate Kildare’s locations, opened around six months ago. 
Frequent patrons don’t have to worry about a change in quality once the name changes, said Maternowski. 
“As a local establishment we will be able to accommodate our community in any way possible,” she said. “Without the ‘Kildare’s’ brand, we stand independent, which means we will not have to follow a corporate formula and we will be able to mold our serv­ice, specials and menu to our surrounding and our guests.” 
Maternowski said the changes will be difficult, but the group and restaurant can handle them. 
“I believe the hardest thing that we will have to overcome is getting over the name change,” she said. “The updated menu will come almost naturally, as we have listened to our guests’ suggestions and criticisms and already know exactly where our problems lay. Of course, we will strive to continue to provide a great service and atmosphere for all of our guests.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


SENATE 


Groupmakesresolutions prior to annual turnover 

By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Student Senate passed two resolutions during its final meeting Wednesday evening in anticipation of the April 1 turnover. 
As the current senators close their term, student body presi­dent Catherine Soler began the meeting with a heartfelt expression of gratitude for the year’s accomplishments. 
The first resolution formal­ized meetings between student government and local law enforcement. 
Student Senate voted to insert a clause into the consti­tution stating the student body president must arrange and lead three meetings per year between student government leaders and law enforcement leaders. 
“One of the key parts of the agreement is we that we will meet with the police, not just the police will meet with us,” Chief of Staff Nick Ruof said. 
Ruof said this initiative, begun this year by student body president Catherine Soler and vice president Andrew Bell, needs to be codified into the constitution for future leaders. 
“Although Pat and Brett have been here and seen the impor­tance of this, five years down the line there are people who have never experienced this,” Ruof said. “We wanted to put it into the constitution that these future leaders of student gov­ernment must meet with the police.” 
The meetings will take place during the months of August, January and April. Though student government begins a new administration April 1, the previous student body presi­dent will also be present at the meeting held in April to help with the transition. 
Chair of Academic Affairs AJ McGauley said Soler, Bell and Ruof have put forth a great deal of effort into the relation­ships they have established with law enforcement leaders throughout the year. 
“This epitomizes what should be going on during the last Senate meeting,” McGauley said. “It really crystallizes what has been going on this whole year.” 
The second resolution con­gratulated the Notre Dame Fencing Team on winning its eighth National Championship this past Sunday. 
The resolution said the team beat Penn State 174 to 168 to win the championship. The title was the team’s first since 2005. 
This victory also signified the third national championship the team has won under Irish coach Janusz Bednarski and the second national champi­onship for a Notre Dame ath­letic program this year. 
“It’s tradition that the Student Senate commends an athletic team when they win a national championship,” Bell said. 

Contact Mel Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 



CD 
continued from page 1 
musicians who reached out to rebuild Haiti after last year’s earthquake killed thousands. 
Jacobs will release a CD in the coming weeks titled “Music for Haiti” to benefit aid proj­ects in the earthquake-ravaged region. 
“I was so moved and over­whelmed by the terrible earth­quake,” Jacobs said. “I was just touched by the how the whole world came together ­what else brings us all together besides the World Cup?” 
Jacobs said he began work­ing on the CD over a year ago. 
“I was just touched by the outpouring of aid from other nations, how everyone pulled together to support Haiti,” he said. “But unfortunately, much of that promised aid was never sent.” 
More than 14 months after the earthquake, Jacobs said Haitians still go without vital medicines and access to clean drinking water. Anticipating this type of “benign neglect,” United States Presidents Bill Clinton and George Bush established the “Bill Clinton— George Bush Fund for Haiti.” Jacobs said 75 percent of the profits from “Music for Haiti” would go directly towards this fund. 
The CD contains of five clas­sical songs composed by Jacobs. He recorded two of the pieces with the London Symphony Orchestra at Abbey Road Studios and two with the Philadelphia Chamber Orchestra. Jacobs said he recorded the final piece him­self on the piano. 
The five pieces explore and evoke the grief, fear and hope the Haitians have experienced since the earthquake, Jacobs said. 
“The pieces are representa­tive of the people’s emotions. Grief for the anguish they felt at the loss of their family and livelihoods, fear for their pres­ent and hope for the future,” said Jacobs. 
The parts that represent the darker side of the emotions are all in minor keys, but the more hopeful movements are per­formed in major keys. Jacobs said these changes produce melodic and uplifting feelings. 
Despite his constant hard work and relentless determi­nation, Jacobs said the process was not without complications and difficulties, but he also said he was pleased with the final product. 
“I know I won’t make a mil­lion dollars or top the charts with this CD,” he said. “But as Presidents Bush and Clinton point out, every dollar makes a difference — every contribu­tion has an impact. I want peo­ple to take away a message of hope from listening to this CD.” 
“Music for Haiti” will be available for purchase at www.NewArielRecordings.org for $17.99 in two to three weeks. 


Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 31, 2011 


STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 


Board hosts discussion with incoming staffers 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s outgoing Student Government Association (SGA) hosted the incoming members at its last meeting of the 2010-2011 administration before their April 1 turnover. 
Current student body presi­dent Rachael Chesley wel­comed the new administration members in attendance. 
“We’re excited to look ahead and see what you [the new board] are going to do next year,” she said. 
Members of both boards par­ticipated in a “break-out ses­sion” to facilitate conversation between the outgoing and incoming staff. Current com­missioners met with the new board members who will fill their respective position for the upcoming 2011-2012 aca­demic year. 
“We felt that having this dis­cussion was important for all of us, whether we’re graduat­ing or just leaving SGA, because we’re all SMC sis­ters,” Chesley said. “By facili­tating discussion among strangers that you just don’t know yet, it lays a stronger foundation for the incoming administration.” 
Chesley said this discussion was not meant to push the ideas of the current adminis­tration on the new one. 
“We don’t want next year to do exactly what we did this year,” she said. “We know that 


Police 
continued from page 1 

will be up to successor student government leaders and stu­dents to preserve and enhance the advances that made this agreement possible.” 
The parties who signed the agreement committed to meet at least three times each year. The meetings will be held in August and January to begin each semester. An additional meeting will be held in April during student government turnover to facilitate the transi­tion between old and new administrations. 
Student body vice president Andrew Bell said outgoing and incoming leaders would be present at the April meeting. 
“[The signers] will meet once in April as a transition meeting, and that is important because we have developed good rela­tionships with certain law enforcement officers but we aren’t going to be in those meetings in the future,” he said. “So that April meeting is to pass the torch on so that our relationships that we formed can hopefully lay a foundation for the relationships in the next administration.” 
Educating students about safety and local laws is a signif­icant part of student govern­ment’s commitment to law enforcement leaders. 
The agreement states that student government will “coor­dinate programming events to introduce new students to law enforcement expectations and practices.” 
Student government also “Out of this we want this to pledged to coordinate events be a proactive body, to stop the for off-campus students to problems before they actually ensure good neighbor relations. happen,” he said. “We don’t 
Bell said meetings this year want another outbreak [of with administration were a arrests] like we had in source of information on both September and August so we 
sides.  feel like a table  
“It just makes  with everybody  
sense.  They  talking will be a  
give us sugges­ “We were humble in  place where we  
tions, and we pass those on to students,” he  these meetings but also assertive about  can work out the kinks before they happen.”  
said. “We give  the needs of the  Doyle said the  
them the stu­dent perspec­ student body.”  agreement signi­fies good will  
tive on things. Students don’t  Catherine Soler  between law enforcement and  
want  to  be  President  students. “There  

antagonistic when you come into an apart­ment, but when a student does­n’t know what’s about to hap­pen, tensions can come up.” 
Bell said student government should reach out to students across different mediums to education them about safety issues. This past year, student government sent informational emails to the student body with safety tips for the weekend, but they also hosted discussions for face-to-face meetings between local law enforcement and stu­dents. 
“I think big programming events though focused on this can give students the opportu­nity to meet law enforcement outside the spectrum of being in trouble,” Catherine said. “That is really helpful and ben­eficial.” 
Chief of staff Nick Ruof said the meetings could help avoid future negative interactions between students and police. 
now exists a 
new opportunity 
for students to be in forward-thinking partner­ships as they seek to be good citizens and neighbors with those who live beyond the bor­ders of our campus,” he said. 
Soler said future student body leaders should approach law enforcement with both respect and persistence. 
“You have to take the per­spective of being a respectful member of the South Bend community,” she said. “We were humble in these meetings but also assertive about the needs of the student body.” 
The current administration will meet in coming weeks with incoming student body presi­dent Pat McCormick, vice presi­dent Brett Rocheleau and local law enforcement for the April meeting planned in the agree­ment. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 



Season 
continued from page 1 
3:30 p.m. The home finale, against Boston College (Nov. 19), is set for a 4 p.m. kickoff. The neutral site contest against Maryland (Nov. 12 at FedEx Field in Landover, Md.) will start at 7:30 p.m. 
For the first time in the pro­gram’s history, the school has introduced variable game ticket pricing, a model followed by next year is going to be the best year ever.” 
Chesley’s final activity as student body president was giving the board an update on the printer initiative and the LeMans Hall basement renova­tion. 
“The printer has been deliv­ered, and it will be installed tomorrow,” she said. “The printer will be up and running on Friday, April 1.” 
This printer will be located in Holy Cross Hall and avail­able to all students. 
Chesley said the LeMans Hall basement renovation is almost complete. 
“The TV and the DVD player are here, but we are waiting on the furniture to arrive before setting them up,” Chesley said. 
Chesley said she would send an email to all students once the furniture arrived and the basement was complete, which will occur before the end of the semester. 
“This really is a great way to end our administration,” Chesley said. 
Other ongoing SGA initia­tives include a fundraiser for tsunami relief efforts in Japan. Students can donate money in the collection buckets at every Diverse Student Leadership Conference (DSLC) event. 
“We’re just trying to help contribute to efforts to allevi­ate the terrible event that hap­pened in Japan,” Chesley said. 

Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 
many universities. Single game tickets will cost $70 for the South Florida, Air Force and Navy games, and $80 for Michigan State, USC and Boston College. Tickets for the Maryland game range from $50 to $130. 
“The reality of our budgeting process is that football ticket revenue is critical to our ability to contribute to the University’s academic programs and finance our other varsity sports,” Swarbrick said in the state­ment. 


Thursday, March 31, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 


London 
continued from page 1 
“That’s why we do it in the library.” 
Over the years, Tyrell said tea time also developed into an opportunity for students to socialize with each other and with faculty. Though attendance varies by semes­ter, Tyrell said tea time seems “really popular” this spring, with about 60 stu ­dents attending each Tuesday afternoon. 
Since the London program’s creation over 25 years ago, it has developed traditions such as tea time and has moved into a building once used as an exclusive gentlemen’s club for members of the universi­ties of Oxford and Cambridge. The program has grown since its beginning and now accommodates 130 students each semester. 
Junior Nick Arnold said the sense of community felt at Notre Dame carries over to the London program. 
“Its size is a strength, not a weakness,” he said. “With a large group of students, we are able to meet entirely new people, while at the same time continuing to hang out with previous friends.” 
The long history of the pro­gram also provides a chance for previous students to rec­
ommend where to go for nightlife or to eat. 
Junior Manali Patel said many students received emails with recommendations prior to their semester abroad. As a result, many Notre Dame students tend to frequent the same locations on the same nights, which contributes to the program’s sense of community. 
“Everyone interacts with each other more because you’re in a smaller group,” Patel said. 
But some students said this sense of community does not come without a trade-off. 
“It’s nice to know that you have friends you can go out with and you always have something to do with some­body,” Patel said. “But com­pared to other [study abroad] programs, I wish that I could meet other people.” 


Junior Nick Bortolotti said aside from temporarily meet­ing British people in pubs, he finds it difficult to branch out while abroad. 
“The fact that we don’t go to a local university here means that we’re constantly surrounded by Notre Dame kids,” he said. “I expected it to be easier to interact with locals.” 
However, students and administrators countered the stereotype that studying in London is exactly like study­ing at Notre Dame. 
Greg Kucich, director of the London program, said the program is an “international hub ” for the University because the London program works to not only integrate Notre Dame students with British culture, but also to bring Notre Dame’s presence to London. 
He said classes in the London program are similar to Notre Dame in terms of their high academic stan ­dard, but classes draw on the cultural resources of London to offer different learning opportunities. 
Specifically, Kucich said classes are not scheduled on Fridays to give students the opportunity to travel and the majority of classes are designed to include field trips to relevant locations across London. 
“This is one of the most exciting and distinctive fea­tures of the London Program 
— its capacity to engage stu­dents internationally with the vibrant cultural life of London,” he said. 
Patel said she often explores London for class. “We go to tons of galleries. 
We go on walks to look at architecture. We go to gar­dens, ” she said. “Places I never would find [on my own.]” 
In addition to the opportu­nity to interact with British and European culture, study­ing in London also offers a different residential life com­pared to Notre Dame. 
Because the drinking age is 18 years old in London, stu­dents are allowed to consume and possess alcohol their rooms, Ric Whaite, one of two rectors living in the resi­dence halls, said. 
The residences themselves, which are apartment-style and co-ed, also contrast with the single-sex dorms at Notre Dame. As a result, parietals do not apply in the London program, Whaite said. 
But, Whaite said, the differ­ent rules have not created problems. 
“I don’t consider our expe­rience as a program with a residential life component in London to experience greater issues thanks to the per ­ceived liberality of our poli­cies,” he said. 

Bortolotti said the different residential life policies have been beneficial to his abroad experience. 
“I think it contributes to a more relaxed social interac­tion because you’re not con­stantly worried about inter­vention for alcohol or pres­ence of the opposite sex,” he said. “I haven’t heard any­body complain about it. I 
think it’s definitely  a  good  
thing.”  
B e c a u s e  o f  s u c h  d i f f e r  - 

ences, and the very nature of living in London, Arnold said the London program would always differ from studying on campus at Notre Dame. 
“All in all, the London pro­gram will never be ‘just Notre Dame, ’ because the atmosphere of London encourages students to go beyond the way they live and study in South Bend,” he said. 

Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer  NEWS Thursday, March 31, 2011 


Phone 
continued from page 1 
improve coverage on highly-traf­ficked areas on campus. 
“The upgrade on 19 nodes will enhance wireless coverage for students, faculty, staff and visi­tors on Notre Dame’s campus, including at Notre Dame Stadium and at many other major buildings and attractions such as the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, Hesburgh Library, Joyce Center, Main Building and residence halls across campus,” she said. 
Thomas said antennas for AT&T are placed strategically around campus for the best pos­sible coverage. 
“The upgrade is expected to help improve call reliability and enable more consistent network access in many areas on campus to help customers make the most of their AT&T devices,” she said. 
Notre Dame’s Chief Information Officer Ron Kraemer said the Office of Information Technology works with all of the cellular providers to improve their customer serv­ice at Notre Dame. 
“One of the things to keep in mind is that our students, facul­ty and staff make individual con­sumer choices regarding their preferred cellphone provider, and we want all cell service to work well on campus,” he said. “It is also important that what­ever we do, it allows every provider to advance their service offerings.” 
Steve Ellis, director of Integrated Communication Services, said Notre Dame works with a company called NextG to improve coverage from major cellphone carriers such as AT&T, Verizon and Sprint. “One of the things we are trying to do, going forward, is identify these places where we have more complaints than others,” Ellis said. “We go in and survey them. We actually go in and measure them.” 
Ellis said NextG then receives feedback about these locations and problems with campus cov­erage. The company then works with individual carriers to improve coverage around the University. 
“There are a number of build­ings we know have poor cover­age because of how they are constructed,” he said. “One that is universally bad for all the car­riers that I know is Bond Hall.” 
Ellis said his office is also reviewing coverage in all the dorms on campus and hopes to present complete information about their problem spots to NextG by the end of the year. 
All carriers are “equally guilty” and struggle with cover­age around campus, Ellis said, and Verizon plans to follow AT&T and improve its coverage over the summer. 
Ellis said he receives feedback about campus coverage through the Office of Residence Life as well as from hall staff. 
While her calls around cam­pus generally improved, Koscielski said she would still like to see increased coverage in certain areas. 
“Coverage in [Coleman Morse] is still bad,” she said. “But it has been getting better.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
CHINA 



Quake affects global market 
Associated Press 

BEIJING — A shortage of auto parts and other compo­nents after Japan’s earth­quake has stirred unease about two pillars of manufac­turing: the country’s role as a crucial link in the global sup­ply chain and “just in time” production. 
Manufacturers slashed costs by adopting Japanese-style small inventories and close links to a tight circle of suppli­ers. But that left them without a cushion of raw materials to ride out disruptions, forcing factories as far away as Louisiana to close when the March 11 quake and tsunami battered Japanese producers. 
“There’s no question people are saying: Look, we may have gone too far. Let’s revisit this and do some different things about just-in-time,” said Jim Lawton, vice president of D&B Supply Management Solutions, a unit of Dun & Bradstreet Inc. 
Companies can use more suppliers spread over more countries but that would mean they have less bargaining power to lower costs. Manufacturers may hold more inventories. That might mean higher prices for consumers. 
Tsunami damage and power shortages that idled thousands of Japan’s factories highlight­ed its role as a key — and sometimes the only — source of auto parts, graphics chips and other high-end compo­nents. Lack of parts from Japan prompted General Motors Co. to temporarily shut down a Louisiana factory that makes pickup trucks. Other companies have warned of possible disruption in supplies of mobile phones, personal computers and other goods. 
CEOs embraced “just in time” production in the 1990s, imitating Japan’s automakers and other manufacturers. They boosted profits by cut­ting stockpiles of parts and won discounts by buying more parts from a smaller group of suppliers. 
“All these things have made companies lower-cost and much more competitive but they have made them much more brittle in cases like this,” said Lawton, a former pro­curement executive for Hewlett-Packard Co. 

GM, Nokia Inc. and other major companies said they were closely watching their supply chains in Japan but declined to say how their long­term strategy might change. 
Already, suppliers of elec­tronics and other components in Taiwan and Southeast Asia are seeing a spike in orders as customers look for alterna­tives to Japan or Japanese companies outsource work from their idled factories. 


Thursday, March 31, 2011 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 

LIBYA 


Gadhafi’s forces adapt to airstrikes 
Associated Press 
AJDABIYA, Libya — Moammar Gadhafi’s ground forces recaptured a strategic oil town Wednesday and moved within striking distance of another major eastern city, nearly reversing the gains rebels made since international airstrikes began. Rebels pleaded for more help, while a U.S. offi­cial said government forces are making themselves harder to target by using civilian “battle wagons” with makeshift arma­ments instead of tanks. 
Western powers kept up the pressure to force Gadhafi out with new airstrikes in other parts of Libya, hints that they may arm the opposition and intense negotiations behind the scenes to find a country to give haven to Libya’s leader of more than 40 years. 
Also on Wednesday, an American official and former 
U.S. intelligence officer told The Associated Press that CIA opera­tives were sent to Libya this month after the agency’s station in the capital was forced to close. CIA officers also assisted in rescuing one of two crew members of an F-15E Strike Eagle that crashed, they said. They spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensi­tivity of the information. 
Airstrikes have neutralized Gadhafi’s air force and pounded his army, but his ground forces remain far better armed, trained and organized than the rebels. 
NATO is in the process of tak­ing over control of the airstrikes, which began as a U.S.-led oper­ation. Diplomats said they have given approval for the com­mander of the NATO operation, Canadian Gen. Charles Bouchard, to announce a han­dover on Thursday. 

Gadhafi’s forces have adopted a new tactic in light of the pounding airstrikes have given their tanks and armored vehi­cles, a senior U.S. intelligence official said. They’ve left some of those weapons behind in favor of a “gaggle” of “battle wagons”: minivans, sedans and SUVs fit­ted with weapons, said the offi­cial, who spoke anonymously in order to discuss sensitive U.S. intelligence on the condition and capabilities of rebel and regime forces. Rebel fighters also said Gadhafi’s troops were increas­ingly using civilian vehicles in battle. 
The change not only makes it harder to distinguish Gadhafi’s forces from the rebels, it also requires less logistical support, the official said. 
The official said airstrikes have degraded Gadhafi’s forces since they were launched March 19, but the regime forces still outmatch those of the opposition “by far,” and few members of Gadhafi’s military have defected lately. 
The disparity was obvious as government forces pushed back rebels about 100 miles (160 kilo­meters) in just two days. The rebels had been closing in on the strategic city of Sirte, Gadhafi’s hometown and a bas­tion of support for the longtime leader, but under heavy shelling they retreated from Bin Jawwad on Tuesday and from the oil port of Ras Lanouf on Wednesday. 
Gadhafi’s forces were shelling Brega, another important oil city east of Ras Lanouf. East of the city in Ajdabiya, where many rebels had regrouped, Col. Abdullah Hadi said he expected the loyalists to enter Brega by Wednesday night. 

“I ask NATO for just one air­craft to push them back. All we need is air cover and we could do this. They should be helping us,” Hadi said. 
NATO planes flew over the zone where the heaviest fighting was under way earlier Wednesday and an Associated Press reporter at the scene heard explosions, but it was unclear whether any airstrikes hit the area. U.S. Marine Corps Capt. Clint Gebke, a spokesman for the NATO operation aboard the USS Mount Whitney, said he could not confirm any specific strikes but that Western aircraft were engaging pro-Gadhafi forces in areas including Sirte and Misrata, the rebels’ last sig­nificant holdout in western Libya. 
The retreat Wednesday looked like a mad scramble. 
And as the fighting approached Ajdabiya, residents there made an exodus of their own. The road to the rebels’ de­facto capital, Benghazi, was packed with vehicles, most of them full of families and their belongings. Streets on the west­ern side of Ajdabiya were deserted and silent. 
Rebel military spokesman Col. Ahmed Bani said the rebels had made a “tactical retreat” to Ajdabiya and will set up defen­sive positions there. “Even with courage and determination, the forces need power to be able to fight back,” he said. 

UGANDA 



Gadhafi offered asylum in Uganda 
Associated Press 
NAIROBI, Kenya — The list of countries where Moammar Gadhafi might spend a comfort­able life in exile is a lot shorter today than it would have been in years past because of global monetary sanctions and possible trial at the International Criminal Court. 
Uganda’s deposed dictator, Idi Amin, found refuge first in Libya and eventually in Saudi Arabia in 1980, living in his own villa with female companionship, food and drink. 
That kind of good life may not be likely for Gadhafi. 
In a twist of fate, Uganda said Wednesday it would accept Libya’s leader, the first country to publicly volunteer to give him a home. 
Of course, Gadhafi may never leave Libya unless overbearing military power forces him to, although world leaders are hop­ing the strongman will go, and there are indications that his aides are seeking an exit for a man who has held power for more than 40 years. 
The Uganda president’s spokesman justified the offer of refuge, saying that Ugandans were given asylum in neighbor­ing countries during the rule of Amin, who killed tens of thou­sands of his countrymen in the 1970s. 
“So we have soft spots for asy­lum seekers. Gadhafi would be allowed to live here if he chooses to do so,” spokesman Tamale Mirundi told The Associated Press. 
Other countries on a list of potential landing points are the African nations of Chad, Mali, Niger, Eritrea and Sudan, although the first three are mem­bers of the ICC and would, in the­ory, be obliged to arrest Gadhafi if he is charged. 
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, who has a long friend­ship with Gadhafi and has called for mediation in the conflict, said Wednesday that he has spoken with Gadhafi recently and that the Libyan leader has no plans to seek refuge in another country. 
“He has said on different occa­sions that he isn’t going to leave Libya,” Chavez said at a news conference in Uruguay, where he was asked whether Venezuela would welcome Gadhafi as an exile. “I think Gadhafi is doing what he has to do, no? Resisting against an imperial attack.” 
Besides Venezuela, Cuba and Nicaragua have been openly sup­portive of Gadhafi, said Mark Palmer, a former U.S. ambassa­dor and an expert on dictators. Because the Libyan leader has a large ego, he is more likely to accept going to one of those countries than a smaller African nation like Eritrea. 
Some experts cast doubt on whether Gadhafi would ever leave Libya. 
“I don’t think Gadhafi’s going to go anywhere,” said Adam Habib, a political scientist at the University of Johannesburg in South Africa. “I think he’s happy to die there.” 
British Prime Minister David Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field, insisted there was no dis­pute between those nations that hoped Gadhafi would quickly flee into exile and those which have demanded he stand trial. He said Britain believed Gadhafi could face a reckoning for his actions, even if he finds a haven outside Libya. 
“I don’t actually think that pre­cludes anyone being held accountable by the International Criminal Court,” Field told reporters Wednesday. 
If Gadhafi is granted exile, he might choose a country that does not recognize the court, which is investigating him for possible crimes against humanity commit­ted in the early days of his crack­down on anti-government rebels. 
Amin died in Saudi Arabia in 2003. Palmer noted that Amin lived like a member of the Saudi royal family despite the thou­sands of people he had killed. 

The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, March 31, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Labor lessons 
Two months ago, Aaron Rogers received the snap from center Scott Wells, took a knee and the Packers were world champions. Pandemonium ensued, as grown men were moved to tears and confetti filled the air. 
Joe Wirth 
That was the last time we saw 
Sports 
football on televi-

Production Editor 
sion and if the recent develop­ments of the col­lective bargaining negotiations are any indication, our televisions could be with­out football for a very long time. 
With the year-round interest the NFL has created, this time of year we are usu­ally concerned with which free agent our team will pick up or hooked on which college prospect our team will draft. Instead, we are forced to watch the same B-roll footage on ESPN of Roger Goodell and other suits walking into some New York City office building. 
This labor stoppage is not unique. As with every sporting labor strike, the play­ers think the owners are egotistical and making too much money, while the own­ers are trying to maintain a profit — it is a business after all. We have heard the grievances on both sides before, just in different sports. The 1994 MLB strike killed baseball’s popularity. In the years following the work stoppage, baseball parks were marred by thousands of empty seats and only a legendary (and as it turned out, fake) home run chase could bring the sport out of the doldrums. 
The entire 2005 NHL season was wiped out because of a strike and the sport has yet to recover. While they did not suffer from the same attendance drop-off, their television popularity has not been the same (mostly due to the fact that ESPN did not want to renew with them as a partner). 
The NFL became the dominant sport­ing enterprise it is today in part because of the strikes in these other sports, espe­cially baseball. It took advantage of the absence of the other sports to become the new American pastime. If they are not careful, they could fall victim to their own greed. I am not saying the NFL will suffer from these common results of a work stoppage, but they are playing a danger­ous game and placing a lot of trust that their fans will remain faithful. 
Yes, there are important issues like retiring players receiving the proper medical benefits in their post-football lives. The majority of the issues, however, seem petty and to the average fan it seems like the negotiations are just mil­lionaires arguing with other millionaires over who will make more money. 
The NFL has gotten it right. They are the standard. Other sports model them­selves after the NFL’s business plan. They have record television contracts and advertisers pay incredible amounts of money so that their products can be seen on Sunday afternoons in the fall. So the-question is, why try and fix something that is not broken? 
Nobody wins during a work stoppage. Both sides lose money. Do I think the holdout will last through the season? No, but the fact that both sides are threaten­ing to says they are out of touch with the fans. Fan interest is what fuels the NFL machine, and if they alienate them dur­ing these negotiations, the NFL will feel the ramifications of this strike for years to come. 
For the most part, fans are not interest­ed in the labor negotiations — all we care about is that on Sunday afternoons in the fall we have football on our televisions. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 

Lent in the dining hall 
With yet another season of Lent upon us, we at Notre Dame are once again beset by those intriguing peculiarities which are unique to this particular time of year — including the numerous entreaties from campus ministry urg­ing us to use the sea-Ryan Williams son to finally change our rotten ways, the subtle bragging from freethoughts overzealous Catholics about just how many things they are giving up for Lent and how difficult it has been for them and, of course, the conspicuous absence of meat from the menu of the dining hall each Friday. This last practice seems excessive­ly draconian to me, and so during a recent meatless Friday lunch I tried to consider all the possible reasons why the University would feel justified in instituting such a policy. 
I’ll admit that I’ve never found a satis­factory answer as to why the Catholic Church requires its followers to abstain from eating meat on Fridays during Lent — or rather, one that doesn’t involve def­erence to superstition or archaic traditions 
— but let’s set aside this trifling philosoph­ical disagreement and focus solely on Notre Dame’s decision to enforce this poli­cy in rather dramatic fashion here on campus. First of all, it strikes me as gross­ly unjust to the sizeable and growing minority of students at this University that is either not Christian or which does not observe Lent to force all students who eat in the dining hall to comply with this man-
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Regatta is coming 
Notre Dame fishes, 

April is here, which can only mean one thing. Regatta is coming! That’s right, less than one month left until the greatest college event in the history of the world. Commonly (and by commonly, I mean just this one time) referred to as the Fisher Brogatta or Fisher Forgotta, the Regatta is celebrating its 25th anniversary at Notre Dame. Contrary to popular belief, the Regatta did not begin at Notre Dame. Our founder Fred Fisher’s great-great-grandfather, Christopher Columbus, won the Fisher Regatta in 1492 with a boat called the Santa Maria. We all know how that turned out. Even before that, God and Noah Fisher teamed up to construct the Ark for the deadliest Fisher Regatta in history. 
Many boats have come and gone since then, and now is your chance to enter the annals of history next to legendary Regatta champions like Ferdinand Magellan, Captain Morgan, Leif Ericson, The Skipper and Captain Crunch. Take advantage of your oppor­tunity to become a champion (luckily, we're not rac­ing against Tulsa or Florida State) and start building your boat today. 
YOU GOTTA REGATTA. 
Sean Wolohan 
freshman Fisher Hall Mar. 30 

date. Why should my eating habits be sub­jected to the whims and dictates of reli­gious leaders who have been dead for cen­turies? The obvious retort to this is that I freely chose to attend a Catholic university and this is merely one of the consequences of that decision. 
I might be inclined to accept this reason­ing if I could see legitimate grounds for why the Catholic nature of Notre Dame compels it to ban meat from the dining hall on Fridays, but I honestly cannot find that justification. It’s my understanding that the practice of giving up something for Lent or abstaining from eating meat on Fridays only has meaning if one truly wants to participate in the tradition and freely chooses to do so. Forcing someone into compliance serves no moral or theo­logical purpose, and only creates bitter­ness and resentment. 
What then is this University’s goal in not serving meat on Fridays? Surely those stu­dents who actually wish to abstain from meat do not need Notre Dame’s assistance 
— they are perfectly capable of not eating meat on their own. We’ve already seen that forcing people to comply with the requirements of the Church won’t magi­cally make people better Catholics, and so the only real objective that this policy achieves is to perpetuate a brazen injus­tice against the students who comprise the non-Christian minority on campus. 
However, I don’t think Notre Dame actu­ally considers any of these consequences when it sets the dining hall policy. In truth, I think the primary reason why meat is not served in the dining hall on Fridays during Lent is so that the University has a reply to the deluded and disgruntled alumni who accuse the school of betraying its “Catholic identity.” But let’s be honest here, these highly disaffected and irrational people are not going to be even the slightest bit impressed when Notre Dame points to the dining hall policy and says “Look how Catholic we are!” They are far too busy marching around with pictures of aborted fetuses during presidential commence­ment addresses and devising new argu­ments for why gays and lesbians shouldn’t be treated like normal human beings to be swayed by this empty gesture. 
Now its true that I could always just go to Reckers and order a hamburger on those Fridays during Lent when the dining halls aren’t serving meat, but that would require me to needlessly spend money above and beyond the exorbitant sum that I already pay for my meal plan. Until the university allows me to use dining hall meals at Reckers during Lent, or until it is able to provide a cogent and persuasive argument for why it forces all of its stu­dents to abide by the Lenten fast, Notre Dame ought to abandon its policy of not serving meat in the dining hall on Fridays during Lent. 
Ryan Williams is a sophomore. He can be reached at twilli15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
OBSERVER POLL 
Who do you think is going to winthe NCAA men’s championships? 
“An idealist is a person who helps 

Kentucky 
other people to be prosperous.” 

Connecticut VCU 
Henry Ford 

Butler 
U.S. industrialist 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, March 31, 2011 page 9 
Are you on a mission? 
Raise your hand if you would have liked to be in the Lady Vols’ locker room facing Coach Pat Summit’s wrath at halftime of the Notre Dame-Tennessee women’s game Monday night. Coach Summit, known to Kate Barrett be, um, blunt when 
Faithpoint 
she’s unhappy, found her group in unfamiliar territory: behind to a team they’d beaten 20 times, in every single previous meeting. Down by five points at halftime with two key players already in foul trouble, she attributed much of Tennessee’s difficulties to the Notre Dame women, saying, “They are on a mission.” 
Are you on a mission? Because we are at a halftime as well: today we are halfway through the holy season of Lent. It’s worth taking a brief trip to the locker room to regroup and think about how our second half will play out. 
A halftime — whether the midpoint of a game, the intermission at a concert or play, or that week of spring break which follows midterms — adds great value to an event in symbolic ways, but more importantly in real ways as well. Halftimes can be turning points: they can focus our attention, strengthen our resolve, lift our spirits. 
Players and fans get to pause and take a breather. The coach and the team get to assess how they’re playing and where they must adjust and improve. Actors and musicians regain their focus and energy so that they can offer their best performance in the next act. Students and teachers exam­ine what they’ve accomplished and learned and map out what they still need to study, teach on or write. 
This Sunday we will celebrate Laetare, or “Rejoice” Sunday in the Church. It’s the halftime Sunday in Lent: we can see where we’ve come so far in our journey as well as the joy of Easter awaiting us up ahead. Hopefully as Lent has progressed, our Lenten practices have swept away some of the noise and clutter that surround us. The superficial fuss and shallow distrac­tions, the weaknesses and sinfulness that keep us from following God freely: have we, through our loving obedience to the call of Jesus Christ, cleared any of those obstacles from our path this Lent? As we reach this halfway moment, this turning point, we can see the hope of the resurrected Jesus ahead of us with new eyes, with a fresh spiritual vision. 
Surely it is no accident, then, that the gospel readings we hear at Mass dur­ing these halftime days all ask us to examine whether or not we truly can see Jesus, and see ourselves, with the focus and clarity of vision that come only from pausing in prayer to remind ourselves of our purpose. In the pas­sages chosen for the next few days, as well as for Sunday, the people who thought they were watching Jesus the most intently were the ones whose own sinfulness impeded their ability to see. And yet the man born blind whom we meet in Sunday’s gospel had the vision to stop and consider the possibilities for his past and his future and to say, “I do believe, Lord.” 
Alexander Schmemann, a prominent 20th century theologian and author, described the “bright sadness” of hope inherent in this middle time of Lent: “Little by little we begin to understand … that the sadness of Lent is indeed ‘bright,’ that a mysterious transforma­tion is about to take place in us.” 
So perhaps these next few days will become a halftime moment for each of us. Can we consciously call for a brief intermission and take some quiet time to pray about our own journeys of preparation for Jesus’ passion, death and resurrection? Make an honest assessment about how the first half has gone for you and ask the Lord for the wisdom and courage to face the mis­sion ahead: to change any habits or weaknesses that are keeping you from him. Most importantly, as the hope of the resurrection begins to dawn in the weeks ahead, may we each give praise and thanks to God for creating and sus­taining us in every moment of our lives. 
It’s halftime. Let’s be on a mission. 
Kate Barrett is the director of the Emmaus Program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Concert contentions 
In “Spring Concert,” (Mar. 29), you voiced your disappointment in SUB’s selection of bands for the 2011 spring concert. It seems to me that your argument rested on two points: the ability of other universities, such as IU, to attract better acts, and the lack of talent of 
O.A.R. 
and Chiddy Bang. Indiana University Bloomington has over 42,000 students. With this amount of students they can fill arenas that so called “better acts” expect, and more importantly they have more money to work with which allows them to put on more con­certs. We have about 11,000 students here. That’s roughly four times less than IU, so it makes sense that we only have the money to put on one concert instead of four. 

You state that O.A.R. is a “wannabe Dave Matthews Band.” Just because the two bands have been placed into the same genre does not mean they warrant this label. Do you call every rapper a wannabe Dr. Dre or Jay-Z? 

O.A.R. 
consistently headlines U.S. tours. For some people, they have become just as much a part of the summer concert series as DMB or Kenny Chesney. And just because they have 


gone mainstream doesn’t mean they have lost any of their talent. Both members of Chiddy Bang are the same age as I am, 20. I’d say they have some talent. You say Chiddy Bang is a “second-rate rapper” and then call the can­cellation of the Sam Adams concert a “music debacle.” I hope you are not insinuating that Sam Adams is a first-rate rapper. 
O.A.R. and Chiddy Bang are both very tal­ented acts and I think that SUB did a great job in getting them to come play at Notre Dame. I just wish, as does Pat McKillen in “Stepan not fit for acts,” (Mar. 30) that the show could be put on in a better venue — namely one that would allow more than 1000 people to attend the show making it more enjoyable for the audience and performers. Oh, and Greg — Dave Matthews Band has played at the University of Notre Dame before. They played on December 5, 1996. At the JACC. 
Andrew Bolka 
junior Keenan Hall Mar. 30 

Understanding symbolism 
Dear Andrew Lynch, 

I am writing in response to your letter “No lights on the Dome” (Mar. 30). For those who don’t know, last Saturday the University joined hundreds of millions of people in 134 countries by turning the lights off for Earth Hour as a symbol of its commitment to sustainability and its stand against climate change. Andrew, I don’t know if you read up on Earth Hour, but I’m assuming you didn’t. 
If you did, you would know that lights were turned off on religious symbols around the world, including Duomo di Milano, Christ the Redeemer statue in Rio de Janeiro and St. Peter’s Basilica in Vatican City. So by your logic, the Vatican has disrespected the Catholic faith as well. Maybe you should write them a letter. 
In actuality, participating in Earth Hour is a very Catholic thing to do. Climate change will disproportionately impact those who have con­tributed the least to our present energy and environmental crisis, namely the poor (if you want a source for this, look to the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops). Pope Benedict XVI has observed, “Preservation of the environ­ment, promotion of sustainable development and particular attention to climate change are matters of grave concern for the entire human family.” The University showed its dedication to Catholic values by showing solidarity with the Church and the world’s poor, and symbolically standing against climate change during Earth Hour. I would like to applaud the University for taking such a stance. 
There is one more thought I would like to leave you with. The light bulb wasn’t invented until 1879. Before this, religious symbols and sacred images were put into darkness every night when the sun went down. Does that mean that they weren’t meaningful during those hours? I would say no. In fact, I am rather insulted that you think our faith would be shak­en and our traditions lost just because it was dark outside. 
Alicia Vasto 
senior off campus Mar. 30 
Fame vs. talent 
Dear Gregory Berryman, 
As much as I appreciated your insightful contribution to our daily newspaper (“Spring concert,” Mar. 29), I must say that I think you made two glaring mistakes in your letter to the editor. Assuming that you simply overlooked them before submitting, I will point them out here for your and everyone else’s sake. 
The first error is that you seem to believe that your opin­ion of artists’ ability is synonymous with their level of tal­ent. Though it was difficult to see through your sarcasm, I believe that when you said O.A.R. brings “poignant and potent lyrics,” you were really trying to imply the opposite ... a truly tactful method. However, did you ever consider that others might judge musical talent on different criteria? Whereas you perhaps appreciate Lil’ Wayne’s music due to his ability to fit as many offensive expressions and exple­tives into a verse as possible, I might place more value on the melodies of an O.A.R. ballad. 
The second oversight you seem to have made is to equate fame with talent. I don’t know much about the hip-hop artist Chiddy Bang, but the fact that you criticize him because he is a “second--rate rapper” and call O.A.R. a "wannabe Dave Matthews Band" shows that you might just be looking to brag to your IU friends that we have better concerts than them, something I am not losing too much sleep over. 
Next time you write to The Observer, you might want to think first that there are indeed other people in the world and that some of those people go to Notre Dame and appre­ciate O.A.R. and are actually grateful that there are people at our University responsible for bringing them here. Or, just abstain. Don’t go, and instead pay to go to a Rebecca Black concert in Michigan City ... I hear she’s pretty famous. 
Sarah Brenzel 
junior Walsh Hall Mar. 30 


The Observer 
Scene
page 10 Thursday, March 31, 2011 

By KEVIN NOONAN Scene Writer  n o m a t t e r h o w p a i n f u l i t watch or listen to you, is a  i s t o gold- c e s s . ” R e b e c c a S h e a r i n g , a British singer is being called the  Yo u Tu b e a n d s o c i a l m e d i a . O n the surface, it is not hard to fig- 
mine.  next Rebecca Black. A YouTube  ure out why Shearing’s publicist  
A 2010 socialtimes.com article  s e n s a t i o n  i n  h e r  o w n  r i g h t ,  i s  p a i n t i n g  h e r  a s  t h e  B r i t i s h  
W h e n  c o m e d i a n  D a n i e l  To s h  e s t i m a t e d  t h a t  Yo u Tu b e  u s e r  Shearing has been posting videos  version of Rebecca Black.  

introduced the world to singing S m o s h , 
of her cov -A simple analysis of Shearing’s “sensation” Rebecca Black, there w h o s e 
ers of popu-song, however, tells a different were a few immediate, inevitable videos had 
lar songs tale. It isn’t bad. It isn’t espe ­consequences. s i m i l a r 
since 2007. cially good, but it isn’t near the First, thanks to Tosh’s reputa-view -counts 
H o w e v e r, level of terrible that vaulted tion and the sheer atrocity of the to Black ’s 
she is hop -Black to fame. It ’s clear that song, Black became instantly “ F r i d a y , ” 
ing to crack Shearing can actually sing, and infamous. Second, many people e a r n e d 
through to that a producer with at least were forced to eat their words a b o u t 
the next some talent helped her out. The concerning Justin Bieber. He $113,000 a 
level, and lyrics, while not in the vein of may be annoying, but Rebecca year. That 
r e c e n t l y Bob Dylan, are nowhere near the Black makes many people long means that 
posted her hilarity of “Friday. ” It simply for the days when “Baby ” was if Black 
debut sin -isn ’t atrocious enough to be the worst thing they ’d ever partners 
gle, “Closer famous. heard. with To Me ” on The real story is played out in 
And third, with such fame YouTube and her YouTube the world of social media. achieved through such an obvi-accrues advertising income, she page. Without ever hearing either ous lack of any real talent, Black could conceivably make six fig-The comparisons between song, it is possible to tell quite a was destined to produce imita-ures for her inability to make Shearing and Black are obvious. bit about each artist simply from tors. It may seem quizzical that music. Besides sharing a first name, the seeing what the Internet is say-anyone would want the kind of It is this logic that brings the two are close in age — Black is “fame” Black has received, but world perhaps the first attempt 18 and Shearing is 19 — and Contact Kevin Noonan at becoming a YouTube sensation, to ride the wave of Black’s “suc-both are seeking fame through knoonan2@nd.edu 

SOFIA ITURBE I Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Thursday, March 31, 2011 page 11 
Thursday 3/31SUB Movie: “Waiting for Superman”Debartolo 101 10 p.m. $3 with ID  Friday 4/1Latin Expressions 2011, Origenes: Regresando a Nuestras Raices Century Center, South Bend7 p.m. $10 at LaFortune Box Office, $12  Saturday 4/2Murder by DeathLegends of Nightclub10 p.m. Free with ID  Notre  Dame  Sunday 4/3“The Kid” and “The Idle Class” Browning Cinema, DeBar tolo Performing Arts Center3 p.m.$3 with ID  
The American public education system falls under the probing eye of a documentarian. Featuring interviews, the film follows a group of children whose families struggle within the system to make sure that they are not left behind.  at door La Alianza’s annual showcase of talent features Latin dance, music and poetry, and performances from First Class Steppers, Project Fresh and TroopND. Come experience one of the largest cultural events of the  Need some music variety? Sponsored by WVFI, these guys play instrumentals, rock and alt-country, while adding some flavor with an electric cello. Snappy lyrics complete the show, which is guaranteed to be a good time.  See Charlie Chaplin as the down-but-never-out Tramp. The adorable ragamuffin, who is rescued as a foundling and raised in the School of Hard Knocks, is the spitting image of a rich woman’s husband. At a masked ball, the woman’s inability to distinguish one from the  
year!  other leads to much confusion.  
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu  


By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 

Since her decade-defining albums “…Baby One More Time” and “Oops!…I did it again” at the turn of the century, Britney Spears has only had an average of two to four big hits per album. “Femme Fatale,” however, may bring the almost-30­year-old celebrity back into cultural rele­vance once again. 
Though still singing in her characteristic pop style, Spears incorporates a more tech-no, electronic sound in nearly all of her new songs. We grew up with her bub-blegum-pop songs as children, and now she has the potential to enter the college dance club scene. More on par with other Billboard Top 100 artists like Lady Gaga, Ke$ha and Dev, Spears’ new style follows the epic dance party hits on the rise with­out abandoning her signature pop sound. 
The pop princess’s new style balances her vocals with catchy melodies and promi­nent electronic beats. By adapting to the sounds of today’s dance music without directly imitating any artist or genre, Spears keeps her music distinct and devel­ops a unique style. 
In the mix are a few duds: “Criminal,” for example, has a very basic, childish melody and doesn’t flatter Spears’ vocals, which sound nasally. “How I Roll,” though musi­cally promising at the beginning, quickly becomes very middle-school sounding both in music and message. The song also fea­tures a very bothersome, repetitive sound, resembling a door hinge squeaking and a descending moan put together. “He About to Lose Me,” despite its dramatic and impressive vocals at the beginning, trans­forms into a refrain outside of Spear’s vocal range. 
Some tracks with the most fame-poten­tial feature other artists, like Spears’ duet with Sabi in “(Drop Dead) Beautiful” and will.i.am in “Big Fat Bass.” Both songs’ guest artists are mini­mally heard throughout the song, but still man­age to outshine Spears. The songs would be decent with Spears alone, however, Sabi and will.i.am add another dimension to the album. 

The highlights of “Femme Fatale” are “Till the World Ends.” Released in March as a single, “Till the World Ends” matches 
the more powerful and catchy songs of the album, like “Gasoline” and “Up N’ Down.” The best-known song on the album, “Hold It Against Me,” echoes the quieter, more emotional electronica songs on the album, such as “Trip To Your Heart” and “Inside Out.” The only element missing from Spears' new album is the empowering, inde­pendent female anthem she has become known for. Expected themes of partying, sexuality, boys and romance are scattered throughout the album, but there is no single song to compete with the brazen sexuality and individuality of Spears’ past 
hits, like “ S t r o n g e r, ” “Womanizer” and “Circus.” 
“Till the World Ends” has the best prospect of being the hallmark song of the album. Although “Femme Fatale” is miss­ing powerhouse singles like “Toxic” or “Gimme More,” the album has a greater quantity of good songs than the handful of mega-hits present on her past albums. 
While Spears’ relevance in pop culture seemed to fade after her commanding comeback several years ago, her new album easily brings her back into pop Top 40 music. Her dance-pop and electro-pop sounds have also brought her back into the minds of her original fans — our genera­tion. By transforming her music to match the times, she has allowed herself to insert her unique pop vocals into today’s music scene. 
Despite the many controversies and mishaps of Britney’s personal life, her album has proved that in the world of pop culture and music, she is still a femme fatale. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 

SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, March 31, 2011 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Purdue’s Painter signs eight-year contract 
coach of the year three times 
Associated Press 

and led the Boilermakers to Purdue’s sales pitch to Matt Sweet 16 appearances in 2009 Painter was good enough. and 2010. Purdue (26-8) made 
After talking with Missouri it to the third round of this about its coaching vacancy, year’s NCAA tournament but Painter decided to stay at his was knocked out by Final Four alma mater Wednesday and participant Virginia has agreed to an eight-year Commonwealth. contract through the 2018-19 Last year, Purdue rewarded 
season.  Painter with  a  
“I  am  c  o n  t  r  a  c  t  
extremely excit­ed about contin­ through 2016-17  the sea- 
uing my career at Purdue,” Painter said in a statement. “I believe we have  “I am extremely excited about continuing my career at Purdue.”  son. It included a $1.3 million base salary and up to $1 million in incentives.  
built something  Terms of the  
very special. At the same time, I feel we have  Matt Painter Purdue coach  new deal were not disclosed. “We are  

much more ahead of us to accomplish. At the end of the day, my heart is at Purdue, and this is a place where I want to win a national championship.” 
Purdue officials spoke with Painter by telephone on Monday, then he met with Missouri officials on Tuesday while on vacation in Florida. The Tigers are hoping to fill a vacancy left open when Mike Anderson left for Arkansas after a similar public bidding battle just a week ago. 
The 40-year-old Painter has been selected the Big Ten’s thrilled to 
announce that 
Matt will con­
tinue his lead­ership of our men’s basketball program,” athletics director Morgan Burke said. “He has been at the helm of the win­ningest four-year period in the storied history of Boilermaker basketball, and we pledge to work with him to win champi­onships.” 
After it became clear that Painter was talking with Missouri, Purdue made clear it was serious about keeping him. 
“The Board of Trustees, pres­ident (France) Cordova and Morgan Burke clearly demon­strated the university’s commit­ment to him and to our men’s basketball program,” Purdue spokesman Tom Schott said Tuesday. “We are proactive. Although we will not go into any details at this time, we encourage Matt to stay, through our words and action. We want Matt to remain a Boilermaker.” 
Purdue was successful this season despite losing top returning player Robbie Hummel to a torn ACL during preseason practice. Led by JaJuan Johnson and E’Twaun Moore, Purdue finished with a 16-0 record at Mackey Arena, the program’s first undefeated home season since 1968-69. Johnson was chosen the confer­ence player of the year and a first-team All-American, and Moore was an All-Big Ten selection. 
Painter joined elite company by earning conference coach of the year honors again. Since the award’s inception in 1974, just three others — former Purdue coach Gene Keady, Ohio State’s Thad Matta and former Indiana coach Bob Knight — have won it at least three times. 
Hummel will return next sea­son, along with starters D.J. Byrd, Ryne Smith and Lewis Jackson. 
“There’s a lot to be excited about right now with Purdue basketball,” Painter said. “We are moving into our new offices and locker room complex over the next couple of weeks. Our program is built on hard work, and we are ready to get back to improving as a team and a staff.” 

NHL 

Recchi wants name on Cup one more time 
The oldest active player in the to be a Hall of Famer, and I feel Recchi said Tuesday night, still we can continue this thing for 
Associated Press 

NHL, Recchi scored his 1,532nd blessed that I have a chance to wearing the 1970s-era wind-along time.” 
The Boston Bruins thought career point in a 3-0 victory be with him and learn from breaker given to the Bruins’ And the feeling’s mutual. they knew what they were get-over the Chicago Blackhawks him.” star of the game. “I thought I “Even though he’s been play-ting when they traded for Mark on Tuesday night to surpass Originally a fourth-round would be lucky to play 10 years, ing for 22 years, it’s amazing Recchi during the 2009 stretch Paul Coffey on the all-time list. draft pick by the Penguins way and I would have been very for-the way that he gets ready for run. Everyone ahead of back in tunate to play 10 years. And games and practices,” said 
A prolific playmaker. A gifted Recchi — Bruins 1 9 8 8 , here I am 22 years later, and Bergeron, who’s 25. Recchi puck-handler. A veteran leader great Ray Bourque Recchi is a I’m still having fun and still decided to give it at least one whose experience would help is 11th with 1,579 seven-time enjoying myself. more try last summer, re-sign­calm his younger teammates in — is either in the “It’s big names that A l l -S t a r Recchi won the Stanley Cup in ing with the Bruins for one year the playoffs. What they didn’t Hall of Fame or not he’s passing there, and whose 576 1991 with Pittsburgh, his third and a chance to get his name on expect from Recchi, who turned yet eligible. goals put season, and again with the the Cup one more time.
it’s crazy how many 
43 last month: a youthful out-“It’s big names him 19th Carolina Hurricanes in 2006, “I’m hoping we go on a long 
points it is.” 
look that has infected the that he’s passing all-time and his 17th. In Boston, he has been ride, it just makes it real easy Boston roster with energy. there, and it’s crazy 956 assists lining up not only with twen-for me to say, ‘See you later,’” 
“At the age he’s at, the way how many points it Patrice Bergeron have him tysomethings like Bergeron or he said Tuesday night. “If we he’s performing is pretty is,” said Bruins cen-13th. He is David Krejci, but also 19-year-win a championship, I’m gone.”
Bruins center 
incredible,” Bruins coach ter Patrice fifth — it’ll old Tyler Seguin, the No. 2 over-If not? Claude Julien said after Recchi Bergeron, who be fourth all pick in the draft. “Then we’ll see. We’ll see if I moved into 12th place on the seemed even more before the “(Bergeron) has been a big can recover,” Recchi said. “(I’ll) NHL’s career scoring list. “He excited than Recchi season is up help to me since I’ve been here, take three weeks, a month, see brings some wisdom in the when the milestone was — with 1,647 games played, he’s kept me young and kept me if my body and my head is dressing room, but he also reached. “I’m just happy to be and the leader among active going,” Recchi said. “It’s been ready to get back in the grind brings some enthusiasm. He’s on the ice with him and to have players. fun, it’s been fun with all these physically doing the stuff I need young at heart, and players a chance to enjoy something “It’s double-plus what I guys, they’ve made it really to do to get ready for next sense that.” like that. ... He’s obviously going thought I was going to play,” enjoyable for me. And hopefully year.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Home in Clay Twship-less than 3mi UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? "You don't do something because it to ND. $75K. 2BR 1BA. is the right thing to do and then giveFOR SALE WANTED NOTICES Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has up when it turns out to be a difficult 
many resources in place to assist task." Double lot, privacy fence, 30x30 you. ——————————————— 17702 Douglas Rd South Bend pole barn, 6 person hot-tub, nice Earn Extra Money If you or someone you care about And in the third year, the Horsemen 
deck and firepit. has been sexually assaulted, we If you or someone you love needs will rise again. Newly Renovated 3 Bed/2 Full Bath Students needed ASAP. can help. confidential support or assistance, They will ascend to the third floor of 2,312 SF 2 Ponds Creek. Lots of please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. Alumni, Parking Walk to Campus Wood heat. New furnace and water Earn up to $150 per day being a And judge the drinking and the 
heater. Low taxes. Mystery Shopper. For more information, visit Notre For more information, visit ND's sober. 50+ Photos on web Dames website: website at: ——————————————— 17702douglas.com No Experience Required. Pestilence, Famine 
Call 574-261-2357 http://csap.nd.edu http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 574-876-8596 Call 1-888-534-5008 Death, Destruction ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Thursday, March 31, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
Purdue 
continued from page 20 
things regardless, especially after Spring Break and deal­ing with those losses, coming back and playing with a dif­ferent mentality,” Clay said. “With the fact that we ’re home now instead of on the road all the time I think that there’s just a lot of things going on for us and maybe that contributed to how we played on Tuesday.” 
The squad, however, remains confident in their ability to finish out the week of home games in a winning fashion after they face Purdue (19-7) tonight. 
The Boilermakers travel to South Bend fresh off five straight wins, and in their last game senior pitcher Suzie Rzegocki tallied seven strikeouts, boosting her career total to 626, a school record. 
Facing a formidable Purdue squad and with Tuesday’s loss looming in the back of their minds, the Irish will take nothing for granted. 
“The team knows that Tuesday’s loss was unaccept­able, ” Clay said. “I think that people are upset about it, but with the group of peo­ple we have, while we are emotionally tied to the game, we don ’t dwell on it too much. We like to move on.” 
“So we talked about what­ever it was and we’re look­ing forward to the next thing because the reality is if we dwell on it it’s not going to change anything. Purdue has always put together a pretty good team so we’re going to come out and hopefully play a lot better softball than we have been.” 
The Irish will face in-state rival Purdue at Melissa Cook Stadium tonight at 5 p.m. 



Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 


MLB 

Dodgers host rival Giants 

Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES — The Dodgers and the San Francisco Giants play each other 17 times, and Clayton Kershaw figures there’s no better time than the season opener for Los Angeles to meas­ure itself against the World Series champions. The 23-year­old left-hander starts Thursday night against Tim Lincecum and the Giants, who dominated the headlines long after the Dodgers’ season ended without a playoff appearance. 
“Obviously, they’re the team to beat,” Kershaw said. “But this year is a brand new year and there are a lot of expectations with every team coming in, and the Giants are just one more team we’ve got to beat.” 
The Giants will have to wait until their second home game on April 9 to receive their cham­pionship rings. But just knowing their bitter rivals have a World Series title to celebrate is annoy­ing enough to many Dodger fans. 
“With the history, sure it’s going to be (hyped up),” Giants manager Bruce Bochy said. “With the two clubs, it goes way back. I actually look forward to how it’s going to go. It should be very exciting.” 
Thursday’s game is the first of seven meetings between the teams in the first two weeks of the season. 
“It’s going to be a tough series no matter what,” Dodgers out­fielder Andre Ethier said. “It always is between these two teams, and it’s something where a lot of emotion and a lot of energy fills the ballpark because it’s the Dodgers-Giants rivalry.” 
The Giants will be without two of their top players to start the season. All-Star closer Brian Wilson is on the disabled list because of a strained oblique, while Cody Ross, their best hit­ter during the playoffs, has a strained calf. 
For the Dodgers, fifth-starter Jon Garland (oblique), third baseman Casey Blake (back), catcher Dioner Navarro (oblique) and pitcher Vicente Padilla (arm surgery) are on the DL. 
Kershaw got the opening day nod a year after starting the Dodgers’ home opener. 
“It’s an exciting opportunity, but at the same time, you try to keep it in perspective,” he said. “It’s one of 162 games, so it’s just a matter of getting the sea­son rolling.” 
He’ll be facing off against Lincecum, a two-time Cy Young winner. 
“It’s always tough, and it’s going to be a battle that first day,” Ethier said. “But you’ve got to beat them all. Whether it’s the first game or later on, you’re going to face him sometime, so you’ve got to go out there and give it your best shot. I guess it would be a confidence boost if you knock him off. If not, you pick yourself back up and figure out a way to get them the next day.” 
New Dodgers manager Don Mattingly is more focused on his team than the Giants. 
“I’m worried about us and how good we play, and how close we can get to playing our best baseball 162 times,” he said. 
The former Yankees star begins his first managerial job as the successor to Joe Torre, who retired at 70 after three seasons in Los Angeles. Mattingly, who turns 50 next month, is carrying plenty of les­sons learned from his old boss. 
“I’d like to say I’m as calm as Joe, but it’s hard to be as calm as Joe,” he said. “But I’ve always been similar in the fact that, as a coach, you’re always paying attention to your guys because every little movement in their body lan­guage tells you something about what’s going on with them. I just kind of take down notes as the game goes on if things are bothering me and I write them down.” 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 31, 2011 
NBA 

Kings poised to leave Sacramento for Anaheim 

Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. — The trademark cowbells are just a faint echo. 
A faithful following once considered among the best in American professional sports has only one thing left to cheer for now. They bring signs that read: “Save our Kings” and “Please Don’t Go.” 
If this isn’t the end of Sacramento’s run, it sure feels like it. 
All indications are the Kings are moving south to Anaheim after 26 seasons in California’s capital. Anaheim’s City Council issued the bonds needed to entice the franchise, new federal trademark rights have been requested and about every­thing else needed to put a simple majority vote before NBA owners is in motion. 
Suddenly, Sacramento is on the verge of being wiped off the NBA map. 
“It’s a sad and sorry state,” fan Nick Guero said at a recent Kings game with his 6­year-old son, Christopher, sit­ting next to him in a matching Tyreke Evans jersey. “I was hoping to share the Kings with my son for years to come. Now? I almost want to cry. Every game we go to might be our last.” 
There was a time not so long ago that Sacramento was the NBA’s model of success. 
A smaller-market franchise that thrived on being the town’s only team, fans turned out in masses even when the Kings were terrible. The team sold out its first 497 games in Sacramento, still the fourth-longest streak in league histo­ry, and they had another run of 354 straight sellouts when the franchise peaked. 
Chris Webber, Jason Williams, Peja Stojakovic, Vlade Divac and Doug Christie even graced the cover of Sports Illustrated in 2001 with the headline, “The Greatest Show on Court. Sacramento Kings: Basketball the way it oughta be.” 
Fans only added to the lore by clanking cowbells to deaf­ening levels, especially behind the visitors’ bench. Those bells were never louder than when Sacramento won an NBA-best 61 games in the 2001-02 season, losing to the eventual champion Los Angeles Lakers in the Western Conference finals at home in a decisive Game 7. 
“When we were winning, the place was unbelievable,” said Rick Adelman, the coach of those great Kings teams who’s now at the helm for the Houston Rockets. “Now, for me, it’s just really sad.” 
Even with success, the need for an updated arena was always there. 
The building formerly known as Arco Arena lacks the moneymaking luxury suites that are in so many new facilities, the sightlines are poor and the 17,317-seat capacity is small by NBA standards. Cash -strapped Sacramento has refused for years to contribute public dol­lars to a new arena, which Kings owners Joe and Gavin Maloof argue is critical for the franchise to be profitable. 
Some also have criticized the Maloofs for not pushing hard enough for a new arena when the Kings were in their prime and they had the chance. In 2006, voters crushed a measure that would have raised sales taxes by a quarter cent to help finance a new arena with a resounding 80 percent in opposition. 
Now a new, different type of vote approaches. 
And Sacramento won’t be able to decide this one. 
The NBA granted the Kings an extension until April 18 to file a relocation request, and a simple majority approval by owners would be all that’s needed for the team to become the Anaheim Royals, one of the federal trademarks an attorney for the Maloofs filed for with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The team was previously the Royals in stops in Rochester and Cincinnati. 
Tuesday night, Anaheim’s City Council unanimously approved a $75 million bond deal to entice the Kings to relocate to Orange County. And Sacramento Mayor Kevin Johnson, a former NBA All-Star, is already preparing his hometown for the worst. 
“It feels like a slow death,” Johnson said of the Kings’ possible move. 
He has vowed that Sacramento will work to build a new arena with or without the Kings in hopes of luring another NBA franchise, a tough task for any city, let alone one out in the Central Valley of Northern California with enough budget issues to worry about. 
NFL 

Vick vies for Madden cover 
Associated Press 

MIAMI — Michael Vick’s return to the cover of the popular “Madden” football video game hinges on fan voting — and nothing else. 
Despite already hearing complaints from animal ­rights activists, EA Sports President Peter Moore said Wednesday that if Vick emerges as the last one standing in a 32 -player “bracket” to determine Madden’s latest cover ath­lete, the company would have no reservations about giving the opportunity to the Philadelphia Eagles quarter­back. 
“We believe that Michael Vick, as the runner-up in MVP for the league and the comeback player of the year, deserved his slot,” Moore said, while appearing at the World Congress of Sports, a state-of-the-industry summit presented by SportsBusiness Journal. 
Vick returned to the NFL in 2009 after spending 18 months in federal prison for involvement with a dogfight­ing ring. During the 2010 season, he led the Eagles to the NFC East crown with career-highs in passing yards (3,018), passing touch­downs (21), rushing touch­downs (9), completion per­centage (62.6) and passer rating (100.2). 
One player from each NFL team was selected to be on the bracket. The contest runs through April 27. 
“I can tell you we’ve already received the letters from our good friends at PETA urging us to take him out of the bracket,” Moore said. “I’m not here to com­ment on what he did. I per­sonally believe, and this is personal commentary right now, that Michael served his time. He’s had a tremendous season.” 
Vick has said in recent weeks that he’s hopeful of being on the cover for a sec­ond time. He also graced the Madden game box for its 2004 edition. 


Thursday, March 31, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MLB 

Former Yankee claims Bonds’ trainer sold HGH 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Former New York Yankee Randy Velarde testified Wednesday that he purchased human growth hormone from Barry Bonds’ personal trainer throughout the 2002 season, making him the fourth major leaguer to admit drug use during Bonds’ perjury trial. 
Velarde said the HGH gave him more “endurance and strength” and that personal trainer Greg Anderson would help him inject the perform­ance-enhancing drug. 
The 48-year-old Velarde was the latest athlete to testify about his desire to work with Anderson because of his con­nection to Bonds. Like other players, he saw that the home-run king experienced a surge in hitting power after he teamed up with the trainer. Bonds owns the major league records for home runs in a 
ca r eer  (762 ) and  a  seas o n  
(73).  
U SAD A  off icial  Lar r y  

Bowers, the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency's chief scientist, leaves the federal courthouse after testifying in the Barry Bonds' perjury trial on Thursday. 
None of the players directly testified about Bonds. Instead, prosecutors had the players tell the jury how Anderson supplied them with perform­ance-enhancing drugs along with detailed instructions on how to use the substances. Further, Velarde and former San Francisco Giant Marvin Benard testified that Anderson injected them with drugs. 
Velarde, who hit 100 home runs and batted .276 over a 16 -year career, spent less than 15 minutes on the wit­ness stand and testified that he never took two designer steroids that prosecutors allege Bonds knowingly used after getting them from Anderson. 
Velarde, who played for the Yankees, Angels, Athletics and Rangers, followed Benard to the witness stand Wednesday morning. 
Benard, a Bonds teammate with the Giants, testified that Anderson supplied him with the designer steroids dubbed the “clear” and “cream.” 
Prosecutors hope to use the players’ testimony to undercut Bonds’ position that Anderson misled him into using steroids by telling the seven-time MVP they were legal supplements. Bonds is charged with three counts of lying to a grand jury when he denied knowingly using performance-enhancing drugs. He also is charged with one count of lying to the grand jury when he said no one other than his doctor ever injected him. 
Anderson himself is in jail on contempt of court charges for refusing to testify, which deprived prosecutors of a trove of evidence connected to the personal trainer. Rather than rely on Anderson’s direct testimony, prosecutors have been left with showing how he dealt with the baseball players who flocked to him for fitness help because of his link to Bonds. 
MLB 

Yankees prepare for opener 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Darth Vader’s theme music blared from the speakers at Yankee Stadium while the team worked out under sunny skies as if the Yankees needed a reminder that they are indeed still the “Evil Empire” and not the underdogs that they have been labeled. 
“As crazy as that sounds, nobody seems to believe in us but us,” opening-day starter CC Sabathia said Wednesday. 
Sabathia and New York will get an early chance to prove to the rest of baseball that even though they lost out on free agent Cliff Lee and have a suspect rotation, the 2011 version of the Yankees is up to the challenge of recapturing the AL East. 
Baseball is coming to the Bronx for the first time in March -weather permitting ­when the Yankees open the season Thursday against for­midable foes Justin Verlander, Miguel Cabrera and the Detroit Tigers, and New York is ready to prove its critics wrong. 
“I think with the winter that we’ve had, we’re all looking forward to this day,” manager Joe Girardi said. 
It’s hard to find anything much odder in the Bronx than hearing the Yankees defend their chances — OK, knowing that a cobra has escaped from the Bronx Zoo and could be slithering around the rugged borough is pretty shocking. 
“I told the guys, our guys, be the best that we can be,” Girardi said. 
On ESPN.com, 45 baseball pundits offered predictions for the season. All 45 picked the Boston Red Sox to win the AL East. 
Rain and temperatures more typical of the postseason may put a damper on the fes­tivities that will be a little more subdued this year after the Yankees failed to repeat as World Series champions last October, losing to Texas in the AL championship series. 
“It’s going to be perfect weather, 40s and rain. A good day to pitch,” Tigers starting catcher Alex Avila said. 
With Verlander on the mound for Detroit on a chilly day, Derek Jeter might have to wait until Game 2 Saturday to move closer to his 3,000th hit. He starts the season 74 from becoming the first player in pinstripes to reach the milestone. 
“We’re facing one of the best pitchers in baseball Day 1,” Yankees first baseman Mark Teixeira said. “We’ve got to be ready to go or it could be a long day for hit­ters.” 
Verlander spent his March preparing as if it were April, hoping to avoid the same type of start he had last year. The hard throwing right-hander was 1-2 with a 5.29 ERA in opening month of the season. He finished the year 18-9 with a 3.37 ERA. 
“He figured out some things, some flaws that he had and some other ways to go about doing things that might help him,” Tigers manager Jim Leyland said. “His concentra­tion level improved on days that he doesn’t have to pitch.” 
The first batter Verlander faces will not be Jeter, who slumped to a .270 average last year and eliminated his stride from his much-scruti­nized swing. Girardi tapped left-handed hitting Brett Gardner to lead off against righties. 
“The job that he did against right-handed pitching last season, he was second in on-base percentage against right-handers … his ability to dis­rupt defenses, the pressure that he puts on pitching staffs, his ability to score runs we thought it was a good fit,” said Girardi, who will use Jeter in the top spot against lefties. 
Jeter is hitting .314 from the second hole and .313 in the leadoff spot for his career. 
“It doesn’t make a differ­ence,” Jeter said. “I’ve hit sec­ond more than I hit first, so who cares.” 
Curtis Granderson will return to the Yankees lineup Thursday. Out with a strained muscle since March 22, the center fielder had two doubles and an RBI in a minor league game in Tampa, Fla., and said he was hoping to fly to New York Wednesday night. 
Leyland was set on his line­up, and wasn’t feeling partic­ularly interested in discussing the different looks his team could have this season, espe­cially with second baseman Carlos Guillen starting the season on the disabled list. 
“I don’t know why every­body keeps making a big deal about lineups,” Leyland said. “We’ve got the big boys in the middle, we’ve got some speed up top, we got a little power at the bottom. That’s what it is.” 


NHL 
Pens superstar Crosby cleared to start skating 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — Penguins cen­ter Sidney Crosby has been cleared to return to Pittsburgh’s morning skates on gamedays, but he will not participate in full prac­tices, according to general man­ager Ray Shero. 
Crosby, the Penguins’ captain who has been out since Jan. 5 with a concussion, will travel with the team to Florida and partake in the morning skate Thursday prior to the game vs. Tampa Bay. 
“It’s a natural return for his progression here. His rehab has been ongoing,” Shero said. “He’s doing well with it, but at the same time, as a manager, I have no expectations of him coming back and playing in the regular season. That’s not going to happen.” 
The next step is full practice, and then perhaps a return to game action in time for the post­season. Pittsburgh hopes to have him on the ice for the first round of the Stanley Cup playoffs. The game vs. the Lightning appears like a potential first-round pre­view. 
Crosby began individual work­outs on March 14, and has reported no setbacks. 
“I just wanted to make sure there’s not any miscommunica­tion here as to where we’re com­ing from. There’s no strategic plan from myself and (coach) Dan Bylsma to reintroduce him in our lineup at any certain day or time,” Shero said. “This is a com­plex injury. I think we all know that. I think we’re happy as to where he is in terms of getting back on the ice. His off-ice pro­gram is continuing, which is good. That’s really where we are.” 
With a chance to make a state­ment in the hunt for the No. 1 seed in the Eastern Conference on Tuesday, the Penguins lost to the Flyers 5-2 at home. Now four points behind the Flyers—and Philadelphia has a game in hand, as well— it’s more likely that the Penguins grab the No. 4 seed and gain home-ice advantage over the Lightning. 
Crosby had 32 goals and 66 points at the time of his injury. Despite playing just 41 games, he is still the team’s leading scorer. 
“He’s been dealing with this for almost three months. He does know his body well. He knows his injury at this point,” Shero said. “My expectation, at this point, is that he’s not going to push himself too much, but he’ll push himself enough where he feels good. And if he doesn’t, he’ll pull back a little bit.” 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 31, 2011 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Calhoun serves as focus of UConn turnaround 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Fiesta Bowl executive fred 

Associated Press 
STORRS, Conn. — Heading into the postseason at the end of February, Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun had lost his battle with the NCAA, his sister-in-law to cancer, and four of five basketball games. 
He’s had a better March. 
Star guard Kemba Walker said it was tough to watch Calhoun go through those hard times, and one of the best parts of UConn’s run to the Final Four had been see­ing a smile return to his face. 
“I heard guys say he lost it, you know his coaching ability, something like that,” Walker said. “So, for us to be in the Final Four, especially being a team that was picked to be 10th in the Big East ... it’s special after all this program has been through.” 
On Feb. 22, Calhoun was cited by the NCAA for failing to create an atmosphere of compliance within his pro­gram and was suspended for the first three Big East games during the 2011-12 season. 
The NCAA also hit UConn with scholarship reductions for three academic years, recruiting restrictions, per­manent disassociation of a booster and three years pro­bation for recruiting viola­tions. 
Calhoun missed the next game at Marquette to attend the funeral of his wife’s sister. The Huskies lost that game and two of the next three to end the regular season. 
Calhoun said he began to see the team getting down on itself. So, after losing to Notre Dame 70-67 on senior night, a loss that dropped the Huskies to the ninth seed in the Big East tournament, Calhoun put them through one of the hardest practices of the season. 
“It’s a young team, 21-9 wasn’t a bad ending,” he said. “We were going to the NCAA tournament. But damn it, we weren’t going to put our shoulders down and we were going to play.” 
He said that’s exactly what they decided to do. 

“These kids were going to give it everything they had, leave it on the Madison Square Garden floor,” he said. “And five days later, they actually took something from Madison Square Garden.” 
That would be the champi­onship trophy. They then con­tinued the roll into the NCAA tournament, and haven’t looked back. 
UConn guard Shabazz Napier said he thinks the team has taken on the per­sonality of its coach. 
“We don’t let down from a fight,” he said. “We’re willing to battle anytime, and that’s the type of person he is.” 
Calhoun has spent a lot of time since the Huskies’ win over Arizona in the West final being introspective. 
He has acknowledged mak­ing mistakes over the past two seasons. But he also told reporters that he is content right now — of course, the winning helps — because he feels he has been true to him­self, to his family, to God and to his players. 
“Have I done everything the right way? No,” he said Tuesday. “But I did it my way. I’m not Sinatra right now, but I have. I am who I am, and quite frankly my skin and the person living inside that skin is pretty comfortable with who he is.” 
Calhoun, who turns 69 in May, will make a decision about whether to return for a 40th season sometime after the Final Four. He said specu­lation that a third national title would push him into retirement is off base. 
“Standing on the podium would be a bad time to make any decision,” he said. “And quite frankly, if things don’t go well it would be a lousy time to make a decision.” 
For now, he’s just enjoying a run with what he calls a spe­cial team. 
“I think about my grand­children, I think about my wife. I think about friends who I’ve lost recently,” he said. “I think about the joy of being able to coach, the joy of going to a Final Four.” 
Associated Press 

SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. — The Fiesta Bowl ejected its chief executive amid corruption allegations and now faces a new challenge: convincing the BCS to let it stay in the lucrative bowl system used to crown a national champion. 
If Fiesta Bowl officials can’t, BCS executive director Bill Hancock says the organi­zation has no problem boot­ing them. 
“We will not do business with people who do business like that,” Hancock said. “We just will not be associated with this kind of behavior.” 
Pac-10 commissioner Larry Scott added: “We want to send a clear and very strong signal to the public about the standards and values (that) the conferences that make up the BCS stand for.” 
The Fiesta Bowl released an internal report that uncovered “excessive com­pensation, nonbusiness and inappropriate expenditures and inappropriate gifts” and fired longtime CEO and President John Junker. 
The BCS has set up a task force to help determine if the leaders of major college foot­ball want to continue doing business with the Fiesta Bowl. It is in the second year of a four-year deal to be part of the BCS. 
The BCS is one of three organizations whose polls crown national champions, 
the  o th ers  b eing  Th e  
A s s o c ia t ed  Pr ess  and  
ESPN/USA Today.  

The reimbursements, listed 
as at least $46,539, are an apparent violation of state campaign finance laws and the charter that allows the Fiesta Bowl its nonprofit sta­tus. Arizona state prosecu­tors are also conducting a probe. 
The Fiesta board unani­mously fired Junker “for his improper and inappropriate activities documented” in the report. 
“The entire Fiesta Bowl family is angered and disap­pointed by what we’ve seen in the report and by the actions of Mr. Junker,” board chairman Duane Woods told reporters at the event’s head­quarters in downtown Scottsdale. 
“The Fiesta Bowl is greater than a few individuals, and the lesson here really is that we placed too much trust in a single individual,” he added. Woods did not take ques ­tions. 
Junker, in his ubiquitous bright yellow Fiesta Bowl sports jacket, had been the face of the game for three decades, leading it from an upstart event to one of the BCS giants. The others are the Rose, Orange and Sugar bowls. 
The Fiesta, which also operates the Insight Bowl and many other smaller events, staged the highly anticipated matchup between Auburn and Oregon for the national championship this year. 
With an annual salary of about $600,000, Junker had been on paid administrative lead since Feb. 4 after, the board said, he failed to com­ply with two written direc­tives to cooperate with the investigation. 
Junker’s attorney, Steve Dichter, said via email that his client did not have access to the report before it was made public. He said the doc­ument was being studied before it was determined whether Junker would have a comment on it. 
The 276-page report of an investigation conducted by Fiesta Bowl board members and a retired Arizona Supreme Court justice was published on the bowl’s Web site fiestabowl.org. 
The investigators said they found the “apparent scheme” to reimburse at least $46,539 for employees’ political con­tributions. 
The probe also found “an apparent conspiracy to con­ceal the reimbursement scheme from the bowl’s Board of Directors and state officials,” according to the news release accompanying the report. 
Woods outlined the timeline that began with a report in The Arizona Republic in December 2009 that five for­mer or current Fiesta Bowl employees had been reim­bursed for political donations they were encouraged to make. 
A brief investigation by for­mer Arizona Attorney General Grant Woods, no relation to the board chair­man, led to the conclusion that there was no credible evidence to support the alle­gations. 


Thursday, March 31, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Stability 
continued from page 20 
ruin a team’s season. 
For this reason, Notre Dame’s quarterback for next season is probably the most important topic of conversa­tion this spring not centered on Michael Floyd. 
Junior Dayne Crist, freshmen Tommy Rees and Andrew Hendrix and early enrollee Everett Golson each have a legitimate shot at being the starting quarterback, and this is both a positive and a nega­tive for the Irish football pro­gram. 
Crist began last season as the starting quarterback, has the most experience and prob­ably has the best grasp of Brian Kelly’s offense. His phys­ical tools are exceptional and as long as his recovery goes well, he can be a successful quarterback for Notre Dame. 
Rees filled in for Crist after he was hurt in the Tulsa game, and went on to win all four games he started. He would not need much work to grasp Kelly’s system, and he has proven himself a winner, if not much else. 
Hendrix and Golson are still giant question marks. Neither has played a snap for the Irish, and few people have even seen them in practice for an extend­ed period of time. Hendrix has good size and speed for a quarterback, and Golson has the throwing and running tools to be a star, but only Kelly knows how ready either of them is to step into the start­ing role. 
Each potential starter has his positives, negatives and unknowns, and I certainly will not claim to have any special insight into who will be the quarterback next season. Crist is capable if he’s healthy, but he did struggle at times last season. Rees wins games, but does not look like he has the physical skills to be a game-changer at quarterback, and struggled mightily against USC, the most athletic defen­sive corps he faced. Hendrix looks like he fits the quarter­back mold, but he may not have the athleticism to fit well into a spread offense. Golson, based solely on his high school film, looks to be the best fit for Kelly’s offense, but he’s only a freshman and learning the offense this quickly may be too much to ask. 
But there is one major differ­ence between this year’s team and the 2007 Fighting Irish — the coaching staff. Kelly is in charge now, and he will not play games with arguably the most important position on the field. By fall practice, Notre Dame almost certainly will have named a quarterback, and he will be the guy. He will not have to worry mid-game about his job being in jeop­ardy, and the rest of the team will not have to question which player is their leader. 
The other thing in which Irish fans can have confidence is that Notre Dame’s quarter­back will be capable. Crist is a capable quarterback — he’s proven that, no matter how often people point out the mis­takes he made. So if he is named the starter, the Irish will have a solid player under center. The more important fact, though, is that if Crist is not the starter, whoever is has been judged by Kelly as more capable. Fans should trust Kelly’s judgment and should trust that whichever quarter­back Kelly chooses, he will be the right one. 
A team with four quarter­backs has no quarterback, and right now Notre Dame does not have a quarterback. But rest assured, by the time Sept. 3 rolls around and the Irish prepare to take the field against South Florida, every­one — the coaches, the players and the fans — will know who Notre Dame’s quarterback is, and he will be the man for the job. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
Roberson 
continued from page 20 
Roberson will undergo sur­gery, and his return date is currently unknown. The team has three walk-ons to take some of the load off Wood and Gray — senior Patrick Coughlin, Derry Herilhy and freshman Tyler Plantz. 
“We’re at five with those bodies and it’s interesting,” running backs coach Tim Hinton said Wednesday. “It’s a lot of fun because three of the five really don’t know a lot, so we ’re working the heck out of those guys.” 
Plantz, whose father played for the Irish as an offensive guard from 1982 -85, was added to the roster Monday after Notre Dame held open walk-on tryouts. 
“[Plantz] is a good man and he’s going to go out there and help us in whatever we need to do,” Hinton said. 
Despite the lack of depth, 
offensive line coach Ed Warriner has been encour­aged with the development of the two healthy scholarship running backs. 
“[Gray] is coming along really well,” he said. “We feel like if we just keep developing Jonas he can be a 230 lbs. power back and he’s got some speed with it too.” 
Wood, who gained valuable experience after senior Armando Allen went down with an injury mid-season, will serve as the team’s pri­mary back this fall. 


“I think he understands what he needs to look at in there and what he needs to read,” Warriner said. The reads in the box are so much different than the reads out on the perimeter.” 
Roberson was not the only casualty of spring practice. The team also announced that junior inside linebacker Anthony McDonald will miss the remainder of the spring session with a partially torn pectoral muscle. Although he will undergo surgery, he is expected to be ready at the start of training camp in August. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 



page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 31, 2011 
NBA 

Carmelo goes for 39 as Knicks beat Nets 
points, eight rebounds and 
Associated Press 

eight assists in his return 
NEW YORK — The Knicks from a six-game absence knew how badly the Nets with an injured wrist, but wanted to beat them, and was short on a potential for a half New York wasn’t tying jumper in the final doing anything about it. seconds and appeared hurt 
A little more effort, and a again after going down try-lot of Carmelo Anthony sent ing to chase down his miss. New Jersey home disap-“I thought he was off a pointed. little bit, but man, he made 
Anthony scored 39 points some big plays for us,” Nets for the second straight coach Avery Johnson said. game, including the “Big shots, timely 3s, good tiebreaking jumper with assists. But you could see 
1:08 left, and the Knicks there at the end, maybe he rallied from a 16 -point just ran out of gas a little deficit for a 120-116 victo-bit.” ry on Wednesday night. Anthony Morrow scored a 
Chauncey Billups added season-high 30 points to 33 points, six rebounds and lead the Nets. Brook Lopez six assists, and Amare added 26 points and Kris Stoudemire scored 23 Humphries finished with 15 points for the Knicks, who points and 14 rebounds, have won two in a row but New Jersey came up after a six -game losing short in a game it desper­streak and trimmed their ately wanted to win. magic number for clinching With the Nets making a playoff spot to three. their first national TV They also climbed within appearance since the 2007­two games of Philadelphia 08 season in the ESPN con-for sixth place in the test and facing their closest Eastern Conference. rival, guard Sasha Vujacic 
After surrendering 68 on Tuesday said the game points in the first half to a was “probably the biggest team that was blown out a of the season.” night earlier, the Knicks “I heard Vujacic already came into the locker room say this is the biggest game and decided their effort, as of their season so far, so it’s Billups said, was “unac-the biggest one of our sea­ceptable.” son, too, Vujacic,” Anthony 
“This was a big game for said after the Knicks’ us. We’ve got a lot to lose, morning shootaround. they don’t. They just looked Anthony again called it a like they wanted it more “must win,” just as he had than we did and we talked before Monday’s victory about that,” Billups said. over Orlando. And he again “We came out immediately also grabbed 10 rebounds in the second half and just for the Knicks, who got big kind of turned the tide, contributions in the fourth momentum kind of went quarter from Shelden our way.” Williams and Anthony 
Anthony scored only two Carter, who came with points in the fourth quarter Anthony and Billups in the after a 20-point third, but trade from Denver. it was the basket the Anthony, who also scored Knicks needed in the first 36 Saturday, became the meeting since they beat out third player in the NBA this the Nets in the race to season to score 35 points in acquire the All-Star for-three straight games, ward. according to the Elias 
Deron Williams had 22 Sports Bureau. 

Tynan 
continued from page 20 
senior wing Calle Ridderwall said Tynan’s balance of play-making and goal scoring is rare in the college game. 
“You know, he’s a playmak­er — and a playmaker that knows how to score goals. That’s rare to find. Usually guys are either playmakers or goal -scorers,” Ridderwall said. “In T.J., you have both of them. He just sees plays very well. He’s really good mentally. When he’s in the hockey game, he can see how things will develop.” 
Tynan has already received a number of accolades during his brief stint on campus. The 5-foot-8-inch playmaker was named to the CCHA All-Rookie Team along with Lee last week, and the duo was also named to the All -CCHA Second Team. During the sea­son, Tynan won multiple CCHA Rookie of the Week nominations and notched both CCHA and national Rookie of the Month honors in February. 
Tynan’s success has been surprising given the late-minute nature of his addition to the Irish roster. He was scheduled to join the Irish during the 2011-12 season, but the early departure of Kyle Palmieri and Jarred Tinordi to the NHL left a spot open for Tynan. Irish senior center Ben Ryan said the move was instrumental to Notre Dame’s success this season. 
“It’s unbelievable to think that he wasn’t even going to come in this year is incredi­ble,” Ryan said. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 


Scaringe 
continued from page 20 
of in the past is how close she is with the team. 
“We have a really good time with each other,” Scaringe said. 
Although the Irish have suf­fered some tough losses on the road, the spirit of camaraderie that the players carry has held them together. 
The newcomers on the team have also added a different ele­ment to team dynamics. 
“It’s a new team,” Scaringe said. “This is the most fresh­men I have ever coached.” 
That youth is part of the rea­son Scaringe pictures Notre Dame being a force in colle­giate tennis for years to come. She said they would create a strong team atmosphere both in the locker room and on the road. 
Notre Dame will next play Long Beach State in the Eck Tennis Center Friday at 4 p.m. 

Now Open Tilted Kilt Pub & Eatery 
1032 E. University Dr. Granger, IN 
Full service menu and bar, 32 TV’s, 
All sport packages Bring in any student ID and receive 10% off your food bill 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

join our text club: text tkgfans to 74422 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  
25  26  27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  
35  36  37  38  
39  40  41  42  
43  44  45  46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  53  
54  55  56  57  
58  59  60  
61  62  63  
64  65  66  

Thursday, March 31, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
Across 33Met's 1969 1 Zapper's World Series casualty rival 
5 Billie Holiday's 35Fashion rule for “___ to be the liberated … Unhappy” or one of four 
9 Malapropos arrangements14Event starting at found literally in 2 a.m., maybe this puzzle 
15Shankar who 39Other half played at the 
40The “20” in 
Concert for 
“Drop and give 
Bangladesh, 
me 20!”
1971 16Newswoman 43Lötschberg O'Donnell Tunnel's locale 17Pass over 
46Body of water 
18Blood-related 
named for an 
19Lit 
English explorer 
20End of a 1978 
new-wave album 49Dithery, with “up” title 
50“The ___ o'the 
22Beat 
Green” (old Irish 
23Mark up ballad)24Embalming
chemical 52“Really!” 25Single at the 54God of the south beginning? wind 26Italian bitters 
55Elvis instrument 30QE2's domain: now in the Abbr. Country Music 31Low jack? Hall of Fame 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


58Muscovite princeknown as “Moneybag” 
59Instrument for Johann Jacob Bach 
60Shellac 61Writing on a lens 
cap62Hereabout 63House of ___
(Europeanprincely dynasty)

64Cleaning, as iffor militaryinspection
65Recess sites, attimes 66Storied loch 
Down 
1 Big now 2 “Give me an 
example”3 F.A.A. center 4 Vampire ___
(fanged fish) 5 Tops 6 It may be
skimmed over 7 Tel ___ 8 Natural history

museum exhibit,for short 9 Shortly10Apartment adcome-on 11 Afghanistan'snational airline 12Quote by rote13“___ never know” 
21Abbr. for those who didn't make the list 
24Ferry's front27___ vivendi 28Imperative in an
automated telephonemessage 
WILL SHORTZ 
 OROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

Puzzle by Gary Cee  
29Buenos ___ 32Directory listings:Abbr. 34Bud's place 36Rebellion 37XII, maybe 38Run through 41Brown strip 42Balls at balls? 43Overhang  4410th-centurypope interred atSt. Peter's Basilica 45New York governor beforeSpitzer47Ducks for cover 48Guido Reni painting“Cleopatra Withthe ___”  51Ramble 53Dilate 55Sound heard at the end of “Bohemian Rhapsody” 56Not rock the boat 57Gardener's bagful  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&Tusers: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 



JEFF KNUREK
JUMBLE

PLEASANDVILLE JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 

MATING RITUAL SCOTT MITCHELL and MATT MOMONT 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Thursday, March 31, 2011 page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Spring Fever 

Battle between four two scholarship backs Irish down to only quarterbacks heats up 
A team that has four quar-
By ANDREW OWENS 
terbacks has no quarterback.
Associate Sports Editor 
This was a lesson learned the hard way by the 2007 With only three scholarship Irish football squad, which running backs on the team played three entering spring practice, the quarterbacks Irish knew they couldn’t in the first 
afford any one of those play-game and ers to go down with an injury. 
went on to 
The team’s depth took a seri­win the same 
ous hit Wednesday when it amount of 
was announced freshman games that running back Cameron season. 
Roberson would miss the 
It doesn’t Eric Prister 
remainder of spring practice. 
matter 
Roberson, the No. 3 running what style Senior back behind sophomore 
of football Sports Writer 
Cierre Wood and junior Jonas a team 
Gray, left practice Saturday plays, if it’s a defensive-mind­and was unable to return. The ed team or if it has a 
team announced Wednesday Heisman candidate at run-
he suffered a torn lateral col­ning back — not having a set lateral ligament and partially quarterback to look to for torn anterior cruciate liga­guidance and stability can 

ment. MAGGIE O’BRIEN/The Observer 
Junior quarterback Dayne Crist and freshman quarterback Tommy Rees participate in see ROBERSON/page 17 drills during Saturday’s practice. see STABILITY/page 17 



ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish assistant coach uses experience to help team 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 

er Notre Dame’s semifinals with the Gators and coaching as and climbed to No. 54 in the believes there is something spe-
Sports Writer 

berth — a feat the Irish accom-an assistant at Harvard. world rankings in singles and cial about being a part of the plished last season as well — an Scaringe brings a player’s per-No. 42 in doubles. tradition at Notre Dame. 
Under the lights in College anomaly. Rather, she sees it as spective to the sideline. So when Scaringe coaches her “I think everything about this Station, Texas, in the spring of motivation. At Florida, Scaringe competed players against some of the place makes it different — the 2009, junior Shannon Mathews “I see [the Irish] returning [to in the No. 1 singles spot, cur-stiffest competition in the coun-tradition, the history, the envi­
— then just a freshman — took the semifinals] and taking it to rently ranks No. 11 all-time in try, she is teaching from a posi-ronment,” Scaringe said. “It’s a Notre Dame to where it had the next level,” Scaringe said. combined singles and doubles tion of experience. tight-knit community. That’s a never been before: the semifi-“It motivates you even more victories, won a national cham-“I’ve walked in their shoes,” feeling you can’t duplicate any­nals of the NCAA champi-once you’ve been there and pionship and two Southeastern Scaringe said. “I know what it’s where else.” onships. For third-year Irish know what it’s like.” Conference titles and was like to be on the court and be What sets this year’s Irish assistant coach Julia Scaringe, Scaringe, a graduate of the named the ITA South Region under pressure.” squad apart from those Scaringe that was the highlight of her University of Florida, joined the Player of the Year in 2003. Despite being at two of the has been a member and coach coaching career. Notre Dame coaching staff in As a junior, she played in all country’s premier programs as a 
But Scaringe does not consid-2008 after playing for four years four junior Grand Slam events player and coach, Scaringe see SCARINGE/page 18 
HOCKEY 

TynanwinsRookieoftheYear 
By CHRIS ALLEN 

Sports Writer  
Irish freshman center T.J.  
Tynan garnered another of  
what is sure to be many post­ 
season  awards Wednesday,  
winning the College Hockey  
N e w s  R o o k i e  o f  t h e  Ye a r  
Award.  
The forward from Orland  
P a r k, I l l . b e s t e d C o l o ra d o  
Co l l e ge’s J a d e n S ch w a r tz ,  
Denver’s Jason Zucker and  
fellow teammate and forward  
freshman Anders Lee to win  
the award. Tynan leads the  
Irish in scoring with 53 points  
o n  th e  sea son .  Tyn an ’s 2 1  
assists  are  also tied for the  
most on the Irish roster. Irish  SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer  
see TYNAN/page18  Freshman center T.J. Tynan skates up the ice in Notre Dame’s 2-1 win over New Hampshire Sunday.  

ND SOFTBALL 
Team faces challenge in the Boilermakers 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
After a heartbreaking loss Tuesday that ended Notre Dame ’s 21 -game home winning streak, the Irish hope to regain some momentum tonight against Purdue. 
The 3-2 loss to Western Michigan (5-18) came as a shock to the Irish (17-7), who were seemingly get ­ting back on track after a disappointing Spring Break. 
The squad struggled to pinpoint an explanation for the unexpected defeat. 
“I don’t really know what our deal was because we were hitting the ball, we just weren’t getting it done when we needed to get it done,” senior catcher Lex Clay said. “That was defi­nitely the problem. I don’t know if we can actually attribute it to anything spe­cific, that’s just what hap­pened.” 
After being on the road for the first two months of the season, they have expe­rienced a different sched­ule since Spring Break. 
“I think our team has been struggling with some 
see PURDUE/page 13 








