
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Candidates compete for nomination 
By VICTORIA MORENO 
News Writer 
Although the 2012 presiden­tial election is still a year away, primary season is in full swing as GOP candidates battle for the Republican nomination and the chance to defeat incumbent President Barack Obama. 
American Studies Professor Robert Schmuhl said it is nor­mal to see a number of candi­dates battle it out early in the election season, as they try to win their party’s nomination. 
“The party that doesn’t occu­py the White House usually has several competing candidates at the beginning of the primary and caucus season,” Schmuhl said. “That’s nothing new.” to campaign money,” Schmuhl 
Sixteen candidates have of-said. “For some reason, though, ficially declared their intent to about three-quarters of Repub­run for the Republican nomi-licans remain lukewarm to-nation. The most recent polls ward him. He needs to do well show former governor of Mas-in the early states, or he runs sachusetts, Mitt Romney, as the the risk of rejection.” current GOP favorite. Other candidates continue to 
“Mitt Romney has the advan-rise and fall in the polls. Most tage of having run for the nomi-recently, former Speaker of nation in 2008 and ready access the House Newt Gingrich ap-peared at the top of the GOP radar after he secured the cov­eted endorsement of the New Hampshire Union Leader, a prominent newspaper. 


Vincent Muñoz, associate professor of Political Science, attributed Gingrich’s recent success to his debate skills. 
“Gingrich seems to have mo­mentum right now on account of his very good debate perfor­mances,” Muñoz said. “Wheth­er he can keep that momentum, however, with increased media scrutiny given his personal baggage is an open question.” 

Rick Perry, governor of Texas, fell out of favor recently after poor debate showings. African 

see PRIMARY/page 5 

Research portal open to students, faculty 
By JESSICA STOLLER­CONRAD 
News Writer 
The Gartner Research por­tal, an information technology research tool, is now accessible to all students, faculty and staff on Notre Dame’s campus, said Peggy Rowland, senior director of Customer Support Services for the Office of Information Technologies (OIT). 
The main function of the por­tal is to provide information on the pervasiveness of the latest trends in technology, Rowland said. 
“When we look at a new tech­nology [for the University], we want to see who else is using it,” she said. 
Gartner uses worldwide trends to place existing and emerging technological tools in one of five phases on a “hype cycle,” which graphically mea­sures expected popularity and utility of technologies over time. The “hype cycle” pre­dicts which technologies will be important in the future and which technologies will soon be obsolete, Rowland said. 
“We don’t want to invest in a technology just because it’s be­ing hyped or marketed … we want to use it because it meets a business need,” Rowland said. “We also don’t want to ignore [new technology] just because it doesn’t meet our early expec­tations. So [Gartner] helps us be selectively aggressive, but not invest in something that may not pan out.” 
The information provided by Gartner Research is particu-

Professor discusses human trafficking 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer  
To combat human trafficking,  
people must first acknowledge  
its existence, anthropology pro­ 
fessor Carolyn Nordstrom said  
in a lecture Wednesday evening.  
Nordstrom warned attendees  
not to think human trafficking  
only occurs in distant nations.  
JODI LO/The Observer “It’s completely global today,”  
Anthropology professor Carolyn Nordstrom lectured on the she said. “This is reality if you’re  
importance of combating human trafficking Wednesday. a kid in a war zone. You’re not  
just dodging bullets … you’re  
dodging traffickers.”  the Civil War, Nordstrom said.  “To say that human traffick- 
Modern laws against human  But people often incorrectly as­ ing is prostitution would be like  
trafficking are built on the anti­ sume human trafficking is pros- 
 
slavery laws that resulted from  titution.  see TRAFFICKING/page 5  


larly useful for faculty trying to identify trends in student en­gagement and learning, Row­land said.  
“We look at trends. Are stu­dents bringing desktops to campus? Not so much. Are students bringing laptops to campus? Yeah kind of, but al­most every student has a smart phone,” she said. “Students are into instant communication ... email is even too slow for them.” 
see RESEARCH/page 5 
Professor dies at 75 of cancer 
Observer Staff Report 
Guillermo O’Donnell, profes­sor emeritus of political sci­ence and senior fellow of Notre Dame’s Kellogg Institute for In­ternational St udi es, died Tues­day in Bue­nos Aires after a long battle with cancer. He was 75. 
O’Donnell joined Notre Dame’s faculty in 1982, ac­cording to a University press release. He was the first aca­demic director of the Kellogg Institute from 1982 until 1997, playing a crucial role in the In­stitute’s development. 
An internationally renowned scholar, O’Donnell focused his studies on Latin American au­thoritarian regimes, the demo­cratic transitions many of them undergo and the relationship between modernization and democracy. 
Scott Mainwaring, profes­sor of political science and O’Donnell’s successor as di­rector of the Kellogg Institute, said in a written tribute that his colleague is known around the world for his “intellectual creativity” and “path-breaking originality.” 
“Throughout his career O’Donnell posed great new 

see O’DONNELL/page 5 
Leaders address winter break safety 
By ADRIANA PRATT 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Keeping students and their belongings safe before and during winter break are pri­orities for student government, student body president Patrick McCormick said Wednesday at the Community/Campus Advi­sory Coalition (CCAC) meeting. 
“We’re trying to do every­thing we can to make sure stu­dents aren’t soft targets,” Mc­Cormick said. 
Detective Sgt. Dominic Zul­tanski of the South Bend Police Department (SBPD) said police have been working with stu­dents to prevent crime and have had some recent success. 
“In the area alone just in the past three weeks, midnight pa­trol and afternoon patrol actu­ally have caught two different guys that we thought had been pretty active in burglaries,” Zultanski said. “We’re doing what we can to keep them in jail, finding more cases.” 
see SAFETY/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Senate and COR merge page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Hugo review page 7 u Men’s basketball loses big to Gonzaga page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Thursday, December 1, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE WORST PART ABOUT THE GAME AGAINST STANFORD? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Emily Schrank Sam Gans Anna Boarini Cory Bernard Tori Roeck Walker Carey Graphics Scene Lauren Kalinoski Alexandra Photo Kilpatrick Mackenzie Sain Viewpoint Amber Galik  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 44 LOW 38 



Jacqueline Ruiz  Jasmine Young  Matt Hawk  Justin Pham  Katie Mattie  Tony Villano  
sophomore Welsh Family  sophomore Lyons  senior Knott  senior Fisher  sophomore Pasquerilla West  freshman Duncan  
“The field.”  “I felt like we weren’t trying. We really didn’t have an offense.”  “The field. It was mean.”  “All of the ‘luck of the Irish’ puns.”  “That Dayne Crist didn’t go in.”  “The clumps of dirt flying around the field.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Dog steps on gun, shoots hunter in buttocks 
SALT LAKE CITY — A Utah bird hunter was shot in the buttocks after his dog stepped on a shotgun laid across the bow of a boat. 
Box Elder County Sheriff’s Deputy Kevin Potter says the 46-year-old Brigham City man was duck hunting with a friend when he climbed out of the boat to move decoys. 
Potter says the man left his 12-gauge shotgun in the boat and the dog stepped on it, causing it to fire. It wasn’t clear whether the safety on the gun was on at the time. 
Potter says the man was hit from about 10 feet away with 27 pellets of birdshot. He says the man wasn’t se­riously injured, in part be­cause he was wearing wad­ers. The man was treated at a nearby hospital. 

Man hid $13K in suit given to Goodwill 
DES MOINES, Iowa — Charity workers hunted through piles of donated clothes at an Iowa ware­house Wednesday, hoping to find $13,000 that an elderly man says he mistakenly left in the pocket of a suit he gave to a Goodwill store in western Illinois. 
The 80-year-old Illinois man notified Goodwill of the Heartland last week of his mistake, said Dana Engel­bert, vice president of mar­keting for the charity. Engel­bert said the man’s wife has cancer and they had been using the money to offset her medical expenses. 
“It’s his life savings and he’s in a difficult situa­tion right now,” Engelbert told The Associated Press Wednesday. 
She said the gray suit was donated to a store in Moline, Ill. It may have been sold at the store, or could have been sent with other clothing to a regional Goodwill ware­house in Iowa City, where non-seasonal items are sent for storage, she said. 
As word of the man’s plight spread, Goodwill has been inundated with calls and emails from people of­fering assistance. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The Center for Social Con­cerns will sponsor a hospi­tality lunch with St. Peter Claver Catholic Worker to­day at 11:45 a.m. in Geddes Hall. The St. Peter Claver Catholic Worker is a Catho­lic community inspired by Dorothy Day that feeds and shelters homeless people, practices the works of mercy and opposes the works of war. There is a suggested donation of $5. 
Professor Alison Rice will give a talk titled, “The Wit­ness Stand: From Confes­sion to Testimony in the Work of Women Writers from Algeria” today at 5:15 
p.m. in 118 DeBartolo Hall. 
Pasquerilla East Hall will sponsor the Silent Night Silent Auction tonight at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center Ballroom. There will be pictures with Santa, gift baskets, Jimmy John’s and door prizes. All proceeds from the auction will go to the American Cancer Society. 
The Progressive Student Allience will present a pan­el discussion titled “Queer Queries — Ally, Gender and Sexual Identity at Notre Dame” tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Andrews Auditorium in Geddes Hall. 
The Dance Company will perform their winter show tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Washington Hall Mainstage Auditorium. Tickets are $5 at the door. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@ gmail.com 
LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 









HIGH 42 LOW 28 
HIGH 44 LOW 38 
HIGH 43 LOW 27 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
Producers discuss work in television 
By ABI HOVERMAN 
News Writer 
Students interested in film and television must be willing to do whatever it takes to get into the in­dustry, award-winning producers Kevin Fortson and Antonia Ellis said in a lecture Wednesday eve­ning. 
“Having hired interns, it’s very clear who is a star and who isn’t … it shows who’s willing to do the work,” Ellis said. “If you have to make coffee or copies, do it.” 
Fortson said it is important for students to make themselves vis­ible and reliable as a good worker and a part of a team. 
As senior vice president of pro­duction for Warner Horizon Televi­sion (WHTV), Fortson oversees the production of many scripted shows for cable and reality TV, includ­ing “Pretty Little Liars” and “The Bachelor.” 
When contemplating a career in Hollywood, one could either do freelance work or take a steadier job at a studio, like Fortson. Al­though freelancers have the chance to make huge profits, this type of work is risky, he said. 
As for knowing when producers have a hit, both Fortson and Ellis said sometimes it takes shooting the pilot or even airing the series before a television show really takes off. 
Fortson said he was skeptical of “The Bachelor” after hearing the original pitch. 
Ellis, who has produced numer­ous shows including “Royal Pains,” “Sex in the City” and “Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman,” got her start in the music industry working on music videos during the advent of MTV. 
She said finding the perfect job is a confusing process. 
“I had wished someone had giv­en me clues about how to get from point A to B,” Ellis said. 
Her career has taken her from Los Angeles to New York City and back again, and as a result of these demands, Ellis said she has not started a family. 
“You have to do some soul searching to figure out what makes you happy,” she said. 
Ellis also said she was optimis­tic about the status of women in Hollywood — both in production and in front of the camera. 
“I’ve never felt from a work standpoint that it was harder,” she said. “In films and TV there are a lot of strong women today and I’m excited about that.” 
Although neither Fortson nor Ellis attended Notre Dame, they both emphasized the value of a Notre Dame education. 
Fortson said having a degree from Notre Dame prepares stu­dents for whatever they want to do. 
Contact Abi Hoverman at ahoverma@nd.edu 
Expert examines Catholic marriage 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
News Writer 
Sacramental marriage is a rela­tively new concept for Catholics, Nan­cy Dallavalle said in a lecture at Saint Mary’s on Wednesday. 
Dallavalle, associate professor of Religious Studies at Fairfield Univer­sity in Conn., addressed how mar­riage is viewed in today’s society and by Catholics in her talk “Are you in? Catholicism and Public Life Today.” 
“Marriage is clearly in the New Testament, but the notion that sac­ramental marriage has always been viewed as a sacrament is not the truth,” she said. “Marriage gener­ally came from families and local customs — the church did not own marriage.” 
As civil structures broke down, the Catholic church stepped in to claim marriage as it’s own, Dallavalle said. 
“Marriage became one of the pri­mary ways the Church could act au­thoritative in the public square,” she said. 
Dallavalle also said that social pat­terns are changing and have been changing for a while now. 
“There has been an increase of about 31 percent of women cohabi­tating with someone before they are married to that person,” she said. “Living together before marriage is no longer correlated with failure, but it is seen as a stepping stone to suc­cess in marriage.” 
Dallavalle also showed the audi­ence a Subaru commercial, which depicts an American couple on their honeymoon — pitching a tent in the woods and having time to them­selves after being married. 
“What does this video say about marriage?” Dallavalle said. “The Subaru commercial is self-expres­sive and is about the two people on their honeymoon. This is more of the American way of viewing mar­riage and sexuality — more self-expressive and separated from the public square.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

STUDENT SENATE 
Senate approves COR merger resolution 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
After much debate, Student Senate passed a resolution combining Senate with the Council of Representatives (COR) at its meeting Wednes­day. 
In his State of the Union ad­dress prior to the vote, stu­dent body president Pat Mc­Cormick said the resolution further enables the Student Union to act upon the will of the student body. 
“The time has come for us to think of ourselves no lon­ger as independent organiza­tions, but as a united student union,” he said. “All the rest of our goals for this year are dependent on this goal.” 
The resolution dissolves COR and adds six new voting members to Senate — the four class presidents, the Club Co­ordination Council president and the off-campus president. 
Originally, the resolution proposed adding the Student Union Board (SUB) manager and Student Union treasurer as voting members as well. 
However, many senators pointed out that these posi­tions are not voted upon by the student body, as the rest of the positions in Senate are. 
“I’m against non-elected representatives having voting rights,” Fisher senator Colin Geils said. “I don’t feel they properly represent the stu­dent body.” 
SUB manager Joe Caparros said that while policy changes made in Senate have not af­fected SUB a great deal in re­cent years, it is possible they could in the future. 
“I do represent the interests of the Student Union Board but I also represent the in­terests of everyone,” he said. “The risk is that if policy does affect SUB more than it has in the past there is a danger for SUB to not have a say in any of that.” 
Student Union treasurer Eric Biro expressed concern that non-voting members of Senate did not have the “right of agenda,” the ability to bring resolutions before Senate. 
“I think there’s something to be said for the person who knows the most about the Student Union fiscal policy to lose that right of agenda,” he said. 
The senators voted to amend the resolution, chang­ing the SUB manager and Stu­dent Union treasurer to non­voting members while also granting these members the right of agenda. 
The most hotly contested issue was the question of whether to add one of the co-chairs of Hall President’s Council (HPC) as a voting member. 
Pasquerilla East senator Katie Rose said members of her dorm had raised concern over an HPC co-chair being able to vote in Senate. 
“They already have a lot of power,” she said. “If we’re try­ing to increase representation of the Student Union, well the residence halls are already represented by us.” 
HPC co-chair Jay Mathes said he and fellow co-chair Billy Wardlaw would be able to provide the perspective of the halls as an aggregate force, rather than a particular one as the senators do. 
“We’re not divided by dorm, grade or gender and we’re one of the very few groups here on campus that are looking out for the benefits of all stu­dents,” he said. “The perspec­tives we have and the talks we have with presidents on a day-to-day basis add different conclusions. It’s a perspective we really need to take care of.” 
McCormick said an HPC co-chair would also offer the ben­efit of a representative with greater experience in stu­dent government. In the past, senators were always seniors. Now, almost all senators are sophomores or juniors, Mc­Cormick said. 
“It creates a body that tends to be younger and has this as their initial or second point of entry into student govern­ment,” he said. “You might have this conclusion that the HPC co-chair might exert un­due influence on the other senators, but on the other hand, that might not be a bad thing either.” 
The co-chair would contrib­ute a more seasoned opinion from the hall perspective than a sophomore senator would be able to, McCormick said. 
Despite these arguments, senators voted to amend the resolution to add an HPC co-chair as a non-voting member of Senate. 
The resolution also real­locates the previous respon­sibilities of COR. Oversight Committee chair Ben Noe said the COR Collaboration Fund, which allocates funds to or­ganizations that are working together on an event, will now be managed by the Financial Management Board (FMB). 
“We felt this fund would best be moved to FMB and chaired by the Student Union treasur­er with representatives from every organization,” he said. “Now the fund will be man­aged by an actual financial body rather than representa­tives.” 
A special committee of for­mer COR members will now be chosen to approve the Student Union budget, also previously managed by COR. 
Further, the resolution changes the names of several groups in order to better re­flect their functions: the Ex­ecutive Policy Board to the Executive Cabinet, commit­tees and committee chairs to departments and directors and Oversight to Internal Af­fairs. 
The resolution was the re­sult of months of effort by Noe, his committee and the subcommittee on constitu­tional reform. 
“I really think this resolu­tion will help us build a stu­dent government that is truly indicative of a student union in that the leaders of all the organizations will come to­gether in one meeting,” Noe said. “And they will all have some say and some vote on what is being said and done in terms of policy.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 


Thursday, December 1, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
your-nose’ election — with both stant coverage of personal 

Bend for break, local commu­major parties having standard scandals, debate slip-ups and 
Safety 
nity officials suggested leaving 
Primary 
bearers about whom there’s political indifference, both 

blinds closed, valuable posses-little excitement.” Schmuhl and Muñoz said it 
continued from page 1 sions locked in bedrooms and continued from page 1 Since the Civil War, incum-was too soon to make predic­
house alarms on to prevent bent presidents have been re-tions. 
As the holiday season hits theft.  Ruszkowski suggested American businessman Her-elected 73 percent of the time. “I don’t think most voters 
its stride and parties abound putting timers on lights and man Cain is deciding whether Those who have lost, however, have actually started to pay 
before finals, Zultanski said to televisions to give the illusion or not to stay in the race amid have shared Obama’s lower attention to the GOP candi­
watch out for unknown people that residents are around. sexual harassment allegations. than 50 percent approval rat-dates yet,” Muñoz said. “The 
who claim they are cleaning up “People think, ‘Oh my gosh. Michelle Bachman, the Tea ing 13 months prior to the elec-Republicans have already had 
yards after parties or shoveling Somebody’s home,’ because Party candidate, U.S. Rep. Ron tion, a New York Times analy-six different figures at the top 
driveways. there’s a TV on,” Ruszkowski Paul of Texas, former U.S. Am-sis on Gallup polls reported in of one poll over the course of 
“What they’re actually do-said. “Believe it or not, that’s bassador to China Jon Hunst-January. this year.” 
ing is they’re just casing places more huge than it isn’t.” man and others are having “Incumbents usually have an The last three midterm elec­
out,” Zultanski said. “You’re Ruszkowski also recom­trouble gaining enough sup-advantage, but the economic tions were change elections, 
going to see it now especially mended students ask friends port to become the frontrunner realities could offset incum-which makes this primary 
because of the cold months af-or neighbors to shovel their in the race. bency for Obama,” Schmuhl season even more significant, 
ter parties, that doors are left sidewalks and driveways over “Republicans are passionate said. Schmuhl said. 
unlocked because friends leave break to make it look like peo­about defeating Barack Obama, With jobs and economic “It’s a volatile and unsettled 
and people go to bed. ple are home. but there isn’t the same pas-growth as two main issues in time, and many Americans 
“You have the people coming “While you’re gone, if you sionate intensity in support of the 2012 election, less than a think our politics are bro-
over to clean up the yards and can make arrangements to a particular GOP candidate to third of voters think a second ken and in need of repair,” 
the cups and what they’re do-have your sidewalk or driveway do it,” Schmuhl said. “Whether Obama term will help improve Schmuhl said. 
ing is they’re actually knocking plowed or shoveled to give at that develops after the pri-the state of the nation, an Octo­
on the door to see if anybody least the appearance that some­maries and caucuses is a key ber Quinnipiac poll showed. Contact Victoria Moreno at 
comes to the door and that’s body is still there … it looks question. It could be a ‘hold-Despite news outlets’ con-vmoreno@nd.edu 
when you’re going to have a like somebody’s staying there,” lot of your thefts — when they Ruszkowski said. “I know it walk in and steal the laptops, seems trivial, but believe it or 
People are seen as more dis-The solution to the problem 

right when people are sleeping not, that’s a big issue.” posable now than they were lies in questioning norms, Nor-
on the couch.” McCormick thanked the po-
Trafficking 
before the Civil War, a problem dstrom said. 

If a situation arises where lice officials for their sugges­that contributes to human traf-“Do you all have a sense of the 
unknown persons knock on tions and noted how valuable continued from page 1 ficking, Nordstrom said. layers of undocumented farm 
students’ doors or offer to clean their support has been. “We are exceptionally critical work in the United States? Most 
their yards, Zultanksi suggest-“We’re just so grateful on the saying the slaves on plantations of people who had slaves during of us don’t and we don’t ask be-
ed calling police officers to pa-student side for the partnership before the Civil War chose to be the slave era,” Nordstrom said. cause our lives are a little bit 
trol the area to prevent poten-that has been built in the sense slaves that got paid for it and “We are exceptionally critical of easier because of it,” Nordstrom 
tial theft. that we can be partners in the were prostitutes,” she said. scholars who justify that. A lot said. 
Zultanski also suggested not-effort to try to keep the commu-Human trafficking is rooted has been written about [modern Nordstrom said the first step 
ing the serial numbers on per-nity safe,” McCormick said. in the desire of businesspeople human trafficking]. How will we is discussing human trafficking 
sonal belongings so police of-Notre Dame will also provide to increase profits at any cost, be seen by the future?” and sharing stories. 
ficers can track them if stolen. free storage options for stu-Nordstrom said. It is cheaper to Despite the issue’s complexity, “If you saw one person in your 
Officer Scott Ruszkowski, dents who want to leave their force people to work than to pay Nordstrom said she is optimistic life that was trafficked, wouldn’t 
also with the SBPD, said that valuable possessions on cam-wages. that people can combat human you feel good about that, turn-
even just marking belongings pus over break, McCormick “Sovereignty is largely built on trafficking. ing it in to a cop,” Nordstrom 
with the last four digits of a said. the backs of trafficked people,” “The underlying theme is the asked. “And if we all did that, it 
phone number in permanent “[NDSP’s] Sergeant Keri Shi-Nordstrom said. “When you’re idea of individual responsibility,” would probably almost be over. 
marker could help police track bata is coordinating that, so a country coming out of a war, she said. “One-third of all traf-“It’s so hard to look at the un­
and recover the items. He also we’re going to be in touch with trying to develop, to make some ficking victims that have been derbelly, but I really think we 
suggested taking pictures of the students before the break kind of mark in the world, you found and helped have just been have to … I don’t think we can 
the items with camera phones. just making recommendations need one thing more than any-[the result of] individuals that have dignity unless we’re will­
“You can show it to the officer just to let people know that thing else. You need hard cur-went out and did something. ing to see what’s really going on 
when he or she arrives to take there is actually a safe room rency … The more money you Almost all major change in the in our world. We can’t pretend 
a report and then it gives Domi-available on campus free of make, the more you win the world starts with individual ac-it’s not there anymore.” 
nic and the other burglary guys charge,” McCormick said. game, the more you can become tion, not with formal legislation 
something to look at,” Rusz­a player on the international … Just simply seeing [trafficking Contact Marisa Iati at 
kowski said. Contact Adriana Pratt at scene.” victims] is the answer.” miati@nd.edu 
Once students leave South apratt@nd.edu 
of his extraordinary gifts was recognizing new questions 
O’Donnell 
and new problems that had not hitherto been addressed.” continued from page 1 Mainwaring said O’Donnell 
was passionate about learning theoretical questions about how democracies could best tremendously important devel-function in the modern world. opments in the contemporary “He stands as one of the most world,” Mainwaring said. “He important thinkers about de­was a deeply learned person mocracy and dictatorships in who always drew upon the an-the history of political science,” tecedent scholarship, yet one Mainwaring said. 
in technology and business trends. 
Research 
“The University libraries are going to be in partnership with continued from page 1 OIT in supporting Gartner,” she said. “The research librarians 
Because of this trend, Gart-will be helping faculty and stu­ner is researching educational dents do the actual research on technologies that focus on using the Gartner website.” smartphones and media tablets Rowland said a few admin-for mobile learning, Rowland istrative departments at Notre said. Dame have already used re­
 “A flexible environment is the search from Gartner to select [current] trend,” she said. “The useful and cost-effective ana­traditional rows of desks and lytical investment tools. seats don’t interest [students] “This [portal] is a great op-anymore.” portunity for faculty, staff and 
The newly acquired Univer-students to have access to this sity-wide license also allows much data and information students to directly access data right at their fingertips without from the Gartner Research por-having to do the individual re­tal.  search themselves,” she said. 
Rowland said students could access the portal through Insi-Contact Jessica Stoller- Conrad at deND for independent research jstolle1@nd.edu 




page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, December 1, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Mad Hatter 
There are generally two opinions regarding Louisiana State head football coach Les Miles. The first is that he is a complete fool whose teams are either too talented to lose or they win despite him. The second opinion is on the complete opposite end of the spectrum — that Miles is a great, if not elite, football coach. I personally believe you are a complete fool if you do not hold the second opinion. 
Miles, aptly nick­named “The Mad Hatter,” had big shoes to fill when he ar­rived in Baton Rouge. He was tabbed to replace Nick Saban who left LSU for the Miami Dolphins after leading the Tigers to the 2003 national championship, the school’s first since 1958. Miles arrived after a successful four years as the head coach at Oklahoma State. The LSU faith­ful saw results immediately when Miles’ first Tiger squad finished 11-2 and won the Chick-fil-A Bowl. His second team finished with an identical 11-2 mark, but this time earned a bid to the Sugar Bowl, where the Tigers demoralized Notre Dame 41-14. 
In 2007, the Tigers finally won the SEC title and defeated Ohio State in the BCS national championship, giving Miles his first title. While that season is undoubt­edly memorable, my favorite memory of Miles — and of all of college football — from that season came on the day of the SEC championship game. 
That morning, ESPN analyst Kirk Herbstreit wrongly reported that Miles had accepted an offer to succeed Lloyd Carr as Michigan’s head coach. Stunned by this report, Miles called a last-minute press conference to clear up any confu­sion. The entire conference was quite humorous, but my favorite part was that he finished by saying, “Thank you very much. Have a great day.” 
After that press conference, the entire college football world began to focus more closely on all the intricacies of Miles. From his unusual, mind-boggling quotes, to his affinity for fake field goals and punts, and finally to his habit of eat­ing the field’s grass on game days. While it seemed like everyone was focusing on everything but his coaching, “The Mad Hatter” just kept winning. From 2008­2010, his teams won 28 games including two bowl games. Miles also continued to excel on the recruiting trail, continually compiling nationally ranked classes, yet everyone focused on what zany thing he was going to say that week. 
This season, before LSU took on Ala­bama, the always-quotable Miles said, “I want my players focused. I don’t want the distraction of not being focused to be a distraction.” While America attempted to wrap its head around that, Miles led his team to an overtime victory. The Tigers remain undefeated at 12-0 going into the SEC championship game this Saturday. If they win, they will certainly earn another BCS championship game. 
I do not believe that Miles is bothered by the extra attention at all. I actually think he enjoys it. Who wouldn’t? He’s proven to be a fun-loving, interesting, likeable guy who also wins a lot of foot­ball games. I think it would be abso­lutely egregious to call Miles a fool. The man obviously knows what he is doing when it comes to coaching football, and I believe he will be remembered as one of the more under-appreciated coaches in college football history. 
Contact Walker Carey at      wcarey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Advent: the lonely season 
As is well known, our human story, from a faith perspective, begins in Eden, where we enjoyed perfect rela­tionship with God, one another, and all of Creation. A snake and an apple later, however, all had been lost. The Fr. Lou DelFra opening story of the human drama Faithpoint ends with the dra­matic final lines of Genesis 3: 
“So the Lord God banished them from the Garden of Eden ...  And after God drove them out, God placed on the east side of the Garden, cherubim and a flaming sword swinging back and forth, to guard the way back to the Tree of Life.” 
It is that penultimate phrase — “to guard the way back” — that most dis­turbs me. In fact, it makes me wince; it is such a terrible, definitive separation. God not only casts Adam and Eve out from their home, but also closes the way back. 
So, if this is our story of origin, then what is the human condition, based on such a story? It becomes one of “sepa­ration,” “homelessness,” “alienation.”  Ours is a life of “wandering” and “seeking,” of longing for what we once had, of longing for our home — yearn­ing for right relationship with God, with one another, with Creation — a recovery of what we have lost. 
If the Church has been accused from time to time of repressing our deepest desires, she certainly must be acquit­ted in regards to Advent. If one of the fundamental truths about our human reality is the end of Genesis 3 — “and God banished them from Eden and guarded the way back” — then at the core of our existence is separation, alienation, homelessness. But there is also the longing to overcome these realities.  
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Surely this last piece — the longing 
— must be present in us, or God would not have had the need for those nasty cherubim with the flaming, swinging sword.  Perhaps God knew that we would spend our lives — sometimes tenaciously and heroically, sometimes lukewarmly and dejectedly — trying to return. 
Advent is a season when we, among other things, bring to conscious light this deep, and sometimes deeply bur­ied — because it’s painful — reality:  that we are not one, that we are not at peace, that our world is not at peace. We are alienated, but we deeply, deeply long not to be. 
How did Jesus in his life acknowl­edge our fundamental separation from what makes us whole? One passage that draws me powerfully is Luke 5:16. It reads simply, “Jesus often withdrew to lonely places to pray.” For someone who reveled in the company of others and was fully immersed in a life of ac­tive service, it’s a curious line. Why the need to spend time, “often” in “lonely places?” 
I have usually, conveniently, misread this line, choosing a more comfortable reading than perhaps is warranted. I usually have interpreted this line to mean, “And Jesus would frequently get so tired by his service that he needed to withdraw from time to time in order to re-energize.” There are, however, many times when Jesus needs to do precisely this, and Luke phrases those withdrawals differently, without that stark phrase “lonely places.” The most conspicuous is after the feeding of the 5000, an obviously draining event after which Jesus would have needed a break. Luke says there, in 9:10, “After they had fed the crowds, Jesus took his disciples with him, and they with­drew by themselves to a town called Bethsaida.” There’s no mention of that haunting word “lonely” — with all its Adventine connotations of separation, longing, homelessness. No, when Jesus needs simply to rest and rejuvenate, he normally withdraws with his disciples, and they rest and rejuvenate. 
So, I wonder if Luke is being very deliberate about his word choice when he says, “And Jesus often withdrew to lonely places to pray.” If Luke is being deliberate, then I wonder if Jesus is not engaging in a spiritual act of Advent in such moments. That is to say, I wonder if he is not momentarily withdrawing to lonely places precisely so that he can feel lonely — not so that he will become depressed and gloomy, for which the Gospels give no evidence, but so that he can stay in touch with one of our most basic human reali­ties (especially before his death and resurrection): that we are cut off from home, that we are separated, that we are alienated from God, from others, from Creation. Doing so perhaps made Jesus even more attuned to human suffering, and even more compas­sionate and zealous in his ministry to those in need. 
If we don’t have times and seasons when we get in touch with this un­comfortable, agitating reality — that we are separated and long to be whole again — we actually become less hu­man.  Advent, if we are to take it on its own merits and not skip right to Christmas, is the season to allow this constantly throbbing reality, and our corresponding longing for right rela­tionship, its full expression. 
This week’s column is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, Director of Pastoral Life for ACE and member of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A good conscience is a continual Christmas.” 
Benjamin Franklin 
U.S. author, diplomat & inventor 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The key to realizing a dream is to focus not on success but significance — and then even the small steps and little victories along your path will take on greater meaning.” 
Oprah Winfrey 
U.S. actress & former television talk show host 


Thursday, December 1, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
The social soundtrack 
Our soundscape has been drastically altered. There has been a sea of change in the way we collect, create, listen to and share music. A decade ago, the rampant piracy of music descended upon the Internet. With the growth Blake J. Graham of technology enabling peer-Erudite to-peer sharing, Techno-Lust as soon as one inspired individual had the audacity to put a song, album or discography on the Internet, all had access to it. The technology was too new for there to be direct moral codes around it; people knew that if they wanted music, they could search, click and it would be theirs — tucked safely in their library. Apple made a bet with the iTunes Store that people would want to pay for their music so long as acquiring it was as frictionless as in the models presented by the pirate giants Napster, KaZaA and Limewire. The iTunes 99 cents per song model worked for a time, then it fell apart. Complaints were lobbied: the sound quality wasn’t high enough, the pre­views weren’t long enough, the selec­tion not broad enough. Piracy still ran rampant, and no insular group seemed to have the clout to fight it. To best pi­racy, an attempt had to be made to out­maneuver the benefits of stealing music while still promoting music, musicians and the music industry. 
In October of 2008, an Internet com­pany from Stockholm, Sweden, named Spotify was launched. Their goal was to provide instant access to the world’s music. For three years they were the dominating subscription service in Europe, offering a “freemium” payment model, where a small percentage of their users pays for premium services in order to offset the cost driven by their free users. In addition to pre­mium accounts with more features and higher bitrate music Spotify placed radio-esque ads into the the free users’ streams to help pay for licensing. By November of 2010, Spotify had over 10 million users, 2.5 million of whom were paying for the service. On July 14, 2011, Spotify launched in the United States, becoming the most promising subscrip­tion music service to American users. On Sept. 22, 2011, Spotify teamed up with Facebook’s OpenGraph platform to allow users’ music preferences and tastes to be shared instantly with the Facebook network. Since announcing their integration with Facebook, Spotify has taken off in America with an over­whelmingly viral nature. 
Spotify is not the only company offer­ing social, digitally on-demand music experiences. Other players include Mog and Rdio (both also feature Facebook OpenGraph integration). There are some complaints against the services though, namely the ownership of music. The collection of music is a highly personal activity. People strive to create the most comprehensive collection to 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Sustainability strategy 
Despite the characterization of the University’s new carbon emissions goals as “ambitious” by the Observer and “aggressive” by the campus Director of Sustainability, the plan announced on Nov. 29 is not one of which Notre Dame should be proud. A decade ago the Sustainability Strategy might have been moderately progressive in higher education circles. Now, compared to the plans of leading universities doing their parts to address global warming, it looks more quaint than visionary. 
The first thing to note about our plan is that it makes no commitment to reducing carbon emissions absolutely, “dramatically” or otherwise. It merely promises greater efficiency, not a smaller footprint. The 2030 goal of cut­ting emissions by 50 percent per square foot (something Georgetown University commits to do by 2020) may or may not result in significant reductions given Notre Dame’s rate of growth. Keeping our plan “really flexible” means avoid­ing commitment. 
Where we aim to cut emissions by 70 percent — again, per square foot — schools ranging from Cornell to Weber State University in Utah have commit­ted to carbon neutrality by that date.  Others have set that target much ear­lier: Montana by 2020, Duke by 2024, Florida by 2025. Brown has committed to cut carbon emissions 42 percent (total, not per square foot) by 2020 and Yale by 43 percent, while also setting a target of getting 25 percent of its energy from renewable sources. While Princ­eton is within months of completing a large solar array to provide 5.5 percent of its energy needs right now, the Notre Dame administration said “it doesn’t make sense for us to invest heavily in solar or in wind.” We remain wedded indefinitely to coal, which puts roughly two times more carbon into the air than gas, while Cornell and Duke aban­doned coal earlier this year, and Brown switched from oil to gas. 
The new Sustainability Strat­egy should be subjected to a careful, campus-wide discussion and then reformulated to reflect Notre Dame at its best. We need to be leaders, not foot-draggers, in addressing climate change.  In his eloquent inaugural ad­dress, Father Jenkins urged that we strive to make Notre Dame a “healing, unifying, enlightening force for a world deeply in need,” enlarging our vision so that no one in the future might “say that we dreamed too small.” The current plan for slowing carbon emissions is too small. 
John Sitter 
Professor of Literature English Department Nov. 30 
Aiden Project 

This Saturday, Knott Hall and Circle K will be hosting the 6th Annual Aiden Project — the largest on-campus, single-day service event. The Aiden Project, named after former Juggerknott and cancer survivor Aiden Fitzgerald, affords students the opportunity to make colorful fleece blankets and create encouraging cards for children under­going cancer treatment at Riley Chil­dren’s Hospital in Indianapolis, the site of Aiden’s cancer battle. 
Come out to the East Wing of South Dining Hall this Saturday, Dec. 3, from 
10:00 a.m. until 2:00 p.m. It only takes a few minutes of your time to make a blanket and write a note, and it will mean the world to the young patients at Riley. Plus, the live music and free food should ensure that SDH is the place to be this Saturday. So save the date, bring your friends and help brighten the days and warm the nights of the kids battling this terrible disease. 
Buy a T-shirt! They’re 15 dollars, and proceeds go to Riley Children’s Hospital. 
Brian Metz 
Co-President Knott Hall Nov. 30 
Mike O’Brien 
Co-President Knott Hall Nov. 30 

No quick fix for poverty 


fit their needs, and as time progresses and people move through different phases of their lives, the music moves with them. The collection of an 80-year old man greatly differs from that of a teenager, not just in scope and style of music but even down to the media that sound is stored on. People desire con­nection with sound — be it emotional, analytical, rational, intimate or intel­lectual. There has even been a resur­gence in the collection of vinyl LPs as a reaction against the perceived desen­sitivity in digital music. Some people would rather deal in the pure audio waveforms produced by a stylus tracing the grooves of a record and amplified to volume a la Faraday’s law of induc­tion. There is pride and community in the connections between collector and collection, and that is something very difficult to replicate in a space as elec­trically sterile as the web. 
As of Nov. 30, 2011, Spotify is chang­ing that. They are changing from a music distribution service to a mu­sic distribution platform. Spotify has opened up its services to developers who can now tap into their musical environment. The result will be mas­sive democratization of on-demand digital music. At its launch, Spotify has announced internal applications devel­oped by Pitchfork, Last.fm, Billboard, Fuse, The Guardian, Rolling Stone and Tune Wiki among others. Their bet is on people buying into the services provided and founded on Spotify and for those users to effectively build their own community around it. People will now go to Spotify to explore new types of music while simultaneously engaging with their friends on Facebook. Every song a user listens to will be codified into Last.fm’s massive index, which will not only provide the information of what was listened to when, but the ser­vice will also passively use that data to provide recommendations. The technol­ogy isn’t individually new, but it is the amalgamation of social connectivity, professional reviews, trend analytics and digital recommendations under one platform that make the development so significant. 
The past, present and future of music are wholly personal and magnificently democratic. We all want to be explor­ers who delve into lands of mysterious sounds and return with gems of music to return to our collections. We all want to share our treasures and discover­ies with those around us. Services like Rhapsody, eMusic, Pandora and iTunes got us to where we are today. But it’s time for the giants of social to take over. It’s time for life to be infused into digital music. It’s time for us to take our music back. 
Blake J. Graham is a freshman. He can be reached on Twitter @BlakeGraham or at bgraham2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily that of The Observer. 
Mr. Myers, 

Although I certainly appreciate the sentiment of your piece (“Changing the world through education,” Nov. 26), I find the suggestion that the “poor inhabitants in Africa, Asia, and South America” should “bootstrap themselves out of poverty” fairly offensive. 
Most of the world’s poor do not suffer from entrenched, structurally-rooted inequities because they lack access to cutting edge technology or to the knowledge that could somehow enable 
them to transform their circumstances. 
Sadly, it seems poverty in many cases is 
linked to lack of access to the very basic 
necessities of life (food, water, shelter, etc.) that underpin all others. 
I also feel your piece assumes a sort of intrinsic ignorance in people in Africa, Asia, and South America that is danger­ously paternalistic. Imagine a scheme that provided the homeless of our very own South Bend (who apparently don’t have any “bootstrapping” to do) ac­cess to a computer and online videos of our classes. The idea that they would somehow be able to lift themselves out of poverty after watching the videos is preposterous. If hungry, how would they be able to concentrate and learn from the videos? (I can’t focus in class if I’ve missed a Grab-and-Go; I can’t imagine trying to learn philosophy, engineering or mathematics if I had been famished for months or years.) If shelterless, how would they bathe in order to prepare for an interview? And where would they find suitable clothes at that? 
Your piece assumes that if people have the right knowledge and just try hard enough, they will be able to bootstrap themselves into the same socioeconomic situation that we have had the privi­lege of being born into. Frankly, that just isn’t true — in the United States or elsewhere. I love the idea of ND spear­heading a new age of enlightenment and democratizing access to education, but let’s not be naïve about a quick fix to a deeply complex problem. 
Melissa Wrapp 
senior Cavanaugh Hall Nov. 30 

By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Scene Editor 

“Hugo” probably isn’t the movie you’re expect­ing based on the trailers you’ve seen. Yes, it is Martin Scorsese’s first foray into 3D filmmaking. Yes, it is a family-friendly tale of an orphaned boy trying to unlock a secret he believes his father left him. Yes, Borat plays an incompetent train station security guard. 
But did you know that “Hugo” is, along with all these things, a love letter to early filmmaking and the wonders of cinema for the people of the early 20th century? Ben Kingsley plays the pioneering French filmmaker Georges Melies, known for making early fantasy films in the vein of Jules Verne novels, the most famous of which is “A Trip to the Moon.” His works, all silent and all made in the years before WWI, are considered classics today, movies that truly explored, exploited and reveled in the possibilities of the new medium. 
Whatever you may think of silent films, don’t let this keep you away from “Hugo.” If you’re a movie buff, you will be enchanted by Scorsese’s ode to the magic of making and seeing movies. But even if the mere thought of a silent film makes your eyes begin to close, the infectiousness of Scors­ese’s storytelling will still likely enthrall you. 
“Hugo” captures what it was that made mov­ies so amazing to the people of the earlier 20th century, people who thought moving images were just about the most miraculous thing they’d ever seen. Through this, you will inevitably be re­minded why you venture to the movies yourself 
— to be amazed, to be sucked into a story, to see the impossible become possible and to see reflec­tions of the world you’d never imagined. 
“Hugo” is, though, still a movie about a boy try­ing to find his place and his identity in a world that seems to have abandoned him. Newcomer Asa Butterfield — recently tapped to play Ender Wiggin in a film adaptation of the other famous futuristic, post-apocalyptic, children-forced-to­do-terrible-things book, “Ender’s Game” — gives Hugo hopeless longing for a family coupled with wisdom beyond his years that inevitably saves the cynical Melies from his own personal destruction. 
Chloe Moretz, who always seems to transcend her age as well, seems a little distracted trying to maintain a British accent, but is charming and a perfect companion to Hugo nonetheless. Sasha Baron Cohen is ridiculous as always, but provides comic relief and a little heart when he connects with the always-serene Emily Mortimer. 
For “Harry Potter” fans, “Hugo” features not one but three of your favorite characters — Un­cle Dursley (Richard Griffiths), Madame Maxima (Frances de la Tour) and Helen McCrory (Nar­cissa Malfoy). Jude Law wins hearts in his small role as Hugo’s father while Christopher Lee plays a charming bookseller. Michael Stuhlbarg fills “Hugo’s” final hole as Rene Tabard, a film histo­rian with the secrets to Melies’ past. 

“Hugo” is not only Scorsese’s first 3D film, it is his first real family movie as well. He rejects much of the dark and twisted material that has driven his recent films for a movie that is all about growing up, finding a sense of belonging and keeping childhood imagination and wonder alive. It is a visually stunning film, one that’s col­or palette and Parisian backdrop come alive with the subtly stunning 3D camerawork. 
Regardless of your familiarity with Scorse­se’s work, with early film or with clockwork (a prominent presence in the film), “Hugo” is a truly cheerful movie perfect for kids of all ages during this holiday season. It certainly doesn’t need to be seen in 3D, but this is one film where it might just be worth it — not for visual shock, but for a beauty and depth of image that the master film­maker captured perfectly. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 

“Hugo” 
Produced by: Martin Scorsese Starring: Ben Kingsley, Sasha Baron Cohen, Asa Butterfield, Chloe Grace Moretz, Ray Winstone, Emily Mortimer, Jude Law 
Silent Night, Silent Auction LaFortune Ballroom 7 p.m. Free 
The Pyros of Pasquerilla East put together an impres­sive night of food and prizes to celebrate the Christmas season. All proceeds from the event go to the American Can­cer Society. It’s the perfect op­portunity to snag a gift bas­ket for your friend or simply support a good cause. Jimmy Johns will be served and door prizes will be available at this holiday event. 
“Crazy, Stupid, Love” DeBartolo 101 8 and 10:30 p.m. $3 
Ryan Gosling, Steve Carell, Julianne Moore, Emma Stone and Kevin Bacon round out this star-studded cast. Af­ter his wife leaves him, Cal Weaver (Carell) mopes around bars subjecting every woman in sight to his sob story. He is taken under the wing of Jacob Palmer (Gosling), a 20-some­thing lothario, who re-fashions Cal into a ladies man and ex­pectedly, hijinks ensue. 

Atlas Sound concert Legends of Notre Dame Nightclub Doors open at 9:30 p.m. Free with ND/SMC/HC ID 
Bradford Cox, of the band Deerhunter, comes to Notre Dame as his solo act, Atlas Sound. He released four com­plete albums as Atlas Sound last year alone. “Parallax,” released in early November, is Cox’s seventh full album and plays with many of the same themes his older albums ex­plore, but with small bits of risk thrown in. 
Carols service Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
7:15 p.m. Free 
The Notre Dame Liturgi­cal Choir, Women’s Liturgi­cal Choir, Folk Choir, Hand-bell Choir and Basilica Schola join together at the Basilica to present a night of Christ­mas tunes, sung to warm the heart and celebrate the season of Advent. It’s the perfect way to begin December and relax before the stress of finals truly sets in, especially if you love Christmas music. 

By COURTNEY COX 
Associate Scene Editor 
From honing his comedic chops in “Crazy, Stupid, Love” to his super-dramatic and largely silent turn in the in­die thriller “Drive,” Ryan Gos­ling owned this year. The only people who seemed to disagree were the editors at People Mag­azine. 
Instead of choosing the charming Gosling for the title of “Sexiest Man Alive,” People opted for Bradley Cooper and certainly met some backlash against their decision. 
Protestors wearing Ryan Gosling masks gathered outside the People offices in opposition to the decision. According to Gawker, their battle cry was “Bradley Cooper is just fine, but Ryan Gosling is divine.” 
Even George Clooney weighed in on the issue, joking on “Ex­tra” that his “Ides of March” costar asked Clooney for tips on how to win the award. 
This weekend, SUB presents “Crazy, Stupid, Love,” which makes it that much easier for students to check out Gosling at his most attractive and de­termine whether or not he de­served the title. 
In the film, Gosling plays Ja­cob Palmer, a womanizer who befriends recent divorcee Cal Weaver (Steve Carell) after he watches him mope at the same bar night after night. 
After Cal discovers his wife Emily (Julianne Moore) cheat­ed on him with a coworker, Da­vid Lindhagen (Kevin Bacon), he can focus on little else. 
Jacob takes pity on him and helps Cal shop for younger looking clothes, hit the gym and learn the smoothest ways to pick up women. 
Cal uses his awkward appeal to woo Kate (Marisa Tomei), a schoolteacher he meets at the bar one night. Tomei shines in some of the most bizarre scenes of the film and is perfect as the slightly unstable Kate. 
In the meantime, Jacob meets Hannah (Emma Stone), a girl he describes as “a game changer” and tries to pursue. 
“Crazy, Stupid, Love” isn’t a completely stereotypical ro­mantic comedy. In fact, it truly takes you by surprise at several different points. 
Each member of the star-studded cast carries their weight and none fall flat or seem useless to the plot. The clear standout, however, is Gos­ling. His portrayal of Jacob is the reason women believe they can change the “bad boy.” He’s charming and smart, but in a mysterious and reserved way. 
Catch Gosling in “Crazy, Stu­pid, Love” this Thursday, Fri­day and Saturday in DeBartolo 101. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
LAUREN KALINSKI |  Graphics Credit 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, December 1, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 
MLB making changes to limit tobacco abuse 
Tony Gwynn’s bat could light up a stadium. His .338 career batting aver­age and 3,141 hits speak for the first-ballot MLB Hall of Famer all on their own. 
But it was Gwynn’s smile that could light up the Padres dugout, a full cheek­to-cheek grin fans, teammates and family members found in­fectious. 
It’s a smile Gwynn al­most lost for good in the fall of 2010 when doctors found a malignant tumor in the salivary gland of his right cheek. While doctors refused to confirm smoke­less tobacco had caused the tumor, Gwynn refused to believe anything other than a lifetime of chewing tobacco had caused the oral cancer. 
Gwynn may be the sport’s most high profile victim of smokeless tobacco, but baseball and tobacco have been inextricably linked since the game’s incep­tion in the 1840s. The term “bullpen” was even coined after the Blackwell Tobacco Company unveiled a new brand of tobacco called “Bull Durham.” 
Video cameramen do their best to avoid the clips of brownish-tar spewing out of the mouths of professional athletes, but it is nearly impossible to avoid through­out a full baseball game. From the bulging Skoal tins in back pockets to shots of the dugout floor coated in tobacco spit, fans and kids are needlessly exposed. 
It has been handed down from generation to gen­eration. It’s a connection between the past and the present, from Cooperstown legends to current home­town heroes. Jerseys, rules and franchises change, but chewing tobacco has been a constant from the begin­ning. 
It’s a connection across cultures. Players from Latin America and across the globe may not speak the same language as American ball players, but they can all share the experience of tobacco. 

It’s also baseball’s old­est tradition, one that will be harder to break than judging safe or out by the naked eye. 
Last week, Major League Baseball took the first steps to removing to­bacco’s presence from TV sets and stadiums in the only labor agreement that hasn’t grabbed national headlines this year. 
Under the new agree­ment between the MLB and the Players Association effective in 2012, players, managers and coaches will no longer be able to carry a tobacco package in their uniforms at games or any time fans are in the ball­park. Moreover, they will be prohibited from using smokeless tobacco during televised interviews, at autograph signings and at events where they inter­act with fans or represent their ball clubs. 
It’s a start, but it’s not good enough. All other levels of organized base­ball have banned tobacco from use at games and on camera. The newly signed agreement, which lasts un­til 2016, is the necessary bridge between a tradition that has overstayed its welcome and the complete eradication of tobacco from the game. 
So, for the first time since Bud Selig added the wild card to the playoffs, I applaud you Major League Baseball. The players won’t like it at first, but they have five years to fig­ure out a way to cope with the change. 
But it’s not about them, and it never was. It’s about the high school ball player that chewed his way through practice and games. It’s about the college student who can’t take a shower or com­plete a homework assign­ment without throwing in a lip. It’s about the oral cancer victim who wishes his smile could light up a crowd again. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Tucker embraces opportunity 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. — Jack­sonville Jaguars interim coach Mel Tucker spent part of the sea­son using crutches and an elec­tric scooter. Nowadays, he has recovered enough from a torn quadriceps muscle to be limp­ing around. 
His defense has been even more banged up. 
The Jaguars (3-8) have three defensive starters on injured reserve, including both start­ing cornerbacks, and have been without several other key play­ers on that side of the ball in re­cent weeks. There’s hasn’t been a noticeable drop-off, a credit to what Tucker has accomplished in his first season in control of the unit. 
In short, Tucker has con­vinced the Jaguars he is one of the NFL’s young, ascending coaches. What he does over the next five games, beginning Mon­day night against reeling San Di­ego, will determine whether he will replace fired coach Jack Del Rio on a permanent basis. 
“I think Mel has been one of the bright spots of our football team this year, taking charge of the defense and calling the defensive plays,” owner Wayne Weaver said. “I was very explicit with Mel that it’s an interim po­sition, that at the end of the sea­son we’re going to conduct ... a very extensive coaching search to make sure that we bring in someone that can help us really build this franchise and return to what we expect — into a win­ning franchise. 
“I did assure Mel that he would have an opportunity to be interviewed for the job, and I think he certainly deserves that and he’s earned that.” 
Tucker’s promotion was wel­comed news in Jacksonville’s locker room on an otherwise tough day Tuesday, with players praising him for his attention to detail and his no-nonsense at­titude. 
“What you see with him and what he says, that’s him,” line­backer Paul Posluszny said. “He’s very true to that. He doesn’t try to put on a show or an act of anything like that. He’s very true with the way he pres­ents himself and the things that he says.” 
Del Rio hired Tucker as his de­fensive coordinator in 2009, but Del Rio mostly handled the calls during Tucker’s first two years. That changed in January, when Weaver told Del Rio to give play-calling duties. 
The defense hasn’t been the same since. 
The unit was one of the worst in the league the last two sea­sons, failing to pressure quar­terbacks and struggling to slow down anyone on the back end. 

The turnaround wasn’t all Tucker’s doing. 
The Jaguars spent more than $100 million in free agency to upgrade a defense that ranked 28th in the league last season and allowed a franchise record 419 points. They signed Posluszny, fellow linebacker Clint Session, defensive end Matt Roth, corner­back Drew Coleman and safety Dewan Landry. They also traded for safety Dwight Lowery. 
Tucker had little time to get them to gel, but he made it work better than anyone expected. 
Jacksonville’s defense has held seven of its 11 opponents under 300 yards, giving the offensively challenged team a chance to win every game. The unit, which ranks fourth in the league in to­tal defense, has forced at least one turnover in five consecu­tive games. Recently, they have remained stout despite losing Rashean Mathis, Derek Cox and Session for the season, and play­ing without Roth and fellow de­fensive linemen Terrance Knigh­ton and Aaron Kampman. 
“Good players make a good coach,” Tucker said. “I believe in keeping it simple, simple enough where we can line up and play fast and we can be relentless and we can be aggressive. But we have enough where we can be confident in regards to covering whatever we need to cover, what­ever offenses throw at us, multi­ple sets, things like that. 
“The thing that you’ll see when you watch our defense is that they play with great technique and fundamentals. They play hard, they’re relentless, they play through the echo of the whistle and those are things we believe in and those are things we empha­size every day, and you get what you emphasize.” 
Tucker, 39, began his coaching career as a a graduate assistant at Michigan State under Nick Sa­ban in 1997. He coached defensive backs at Miami (Ohio), LSU and Ohio State before moving to the NFL with the Cleveland Browns in 2005. He was Cleveland’s sec­ondary coach for three years be­fore getting promoted to defensive coordinator. 
Having never been a head coach, Tucker doesn’t plan on get­ting overly involved with the of­fense. 
After all, the last time he stepped out of his realm, he pain­fully injured his leg while play­fully fielding punts in practice. 
Nonetheless, he knows this is a big opportunity. 
“I’m always motivated to do the best that I can, and right now, my focus is on these next five weeks to do everything that I possibly can to get this team prepared to play,” Tucker said. “There’s a certain brand of football that we need to show out there. It’s relentless, it’s attention to detail, it’s high effort, it’s high energy, it’s high impact. Those are things that we’re going to work on. 
“In terms of my future as a head coach, that’s for another day. ... Only time will tell what oppor­tunities I will have in the future, but I am confident and comfort­able where I am right now.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Seinfeld Quotes: “Why can’t there be some things “I would drape myself in velvet  “I love that bathroom. It’s got “Instead, there’s a pole. Requires 
WANTED 

just for me? Is that so selfish?” - if it were socially acceptable.” - that high-high toilet. I feel like a no decoration. I find tinsel “I want to be the one person who George Costanza George Costanza gargoyle perched on the ledge of a distracting.” - Frank Costanza doesn’t die with dignity.” - George building.” - George Costanza Costanza “Starting tonight we’re having a “We should’ve got some collateral “Jerry, it’s Frank Costanza. Mr. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t little sales contest. The loser gets from him. Like his bag of cans. Or “You’re telling me that wine is Steinbrenner’s here ... George is go it alone. Notre Dame has many 

“What’s so great about a mom fired. The winner gets a Water Pik.” his ... other bag of cans.” - Cosmo better than Pepsi? No way wine dead ... Call me back.” - Frank 
resources in place to assist you. 

and pop store? Let me tell you - Frank Costanza Kramer is better than Pepsi.” - George Costanza 
If you or someone you love needs 

something, if my mom and pop ran Costanza confidential support or assistance, a store I wouldn’t shop there.” - Go Bears. Beat Chiefs. 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 

George Costanza “Sure, I’m not funny anymore, “Hey, I’m telling you, the pig-man “Now see, this is what the holidays 
or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more but there’s more to life than is alive. The government has been are all about. Three buddies sitting 

information, visit ND’s website at: 

“You got a problem with Woody making shallow, fairly obvious experimenting with pig-men since around, chewing gum.” - Cosmo Woodpecker?” - Cosmo Kramer observations.” - Jerry Seinfeld the 50’s.” - Cosmo Kramer Kramer RIP Zach. You’ll be missed. 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
MLB 

Boston announces Valentine as new manager 
Associated Press ter eight years in which he be acknowledged when they guided the Red Sox to two do things properly. Discipline 
BOSTON — Players eating World Series titles but also and rules and things like fried chicken and drinking the biggest September col-that — it’s just about right beer in the clubhouse dur-lapse in baseball history. and wrong.” ing games. If it didn’t bother The first job for the former Francona admitted he lost Bobby Valentine as a base-Mets and Rangers manager: his players near the end of ball lifer, it would certainly reversing a culture in which a tenure during which he offend his sensibilities as players ate takeout fried counted on them to police a self-proclaimed gourmet chicken and drank beer in themselves and never said chef. the clubhouse during games anything negative about 
“He won’t let that happen. instead of sitting on the them in public. When Valen­There’s no way he’s going to bench with their teammates. tine was in New York, he did let that happen,” said Tommy “You give loyalty, you’ll get not hesitate to criticize his Lasorda, Valentine’s manag-it back. You give love, you’ll players and bickered with er in the mi-get it back,” them, his boss and the me-nor leagues Lasorda said dia. and a mentor Wednesday Former Mets general man-who encour-“Discipline is not 30 in a tele-ager Omar Minaya said Val-aged him to phone inter-entine is every bit a players’ 
whacks with a whip these 
try for the view with manager but one who insists
days. I think everyone
Red Sox job. The Associ-on accountability.
likes discipline. I think
“There ’s ated Press. “Bobby is not going to be 
everyone likes structure.
times — in “And that’s the guy who’s cracking the
Everyone likes to be
all phases the way it whip. I can tell you that right of life — acknowledged when has to be.” now,” said Minaya, who was when you’ve they do things properly. At a news in the Rangers and Mets front got to kick Discipline and rules and conference offices when Valentine man-them in the things like that — it’s just the day he aged there. “He’s going to be (rear) when about right and wrong.” formally in-a players’ manager, but he’s they need it, terviewed for going to command respect. ... and there’s the job, Val-I think what Bobby’s going to
Bobby Valentine
times when entine said try to do is demand that play-
Red Sox manager
you need to he learned a ers be professional.” hug them if lot about dis-The Red Sox topped the AL they need it. cipline while East for much of the summer Your liveli-managing in and had a nine-game lead in hood depends on those guys. Japan. Although the players the wild-card race that they You’ve got to have them in there are more respectful squandered by going 7-20 in the right frame of mind, to of authority and less likely September, missing the play-be loyal to the organization, to step out of line, he said, offs for the second straight to put forth all the effort that they also appreciated hav-season. Francona left before they have.” ing clearly defined rules so he could be fired, saying the 

Boston announced Val-they knew where their limits clubhouse needed a different entine as its new manager were. voice. Wednesday, and he will be “Discipline is not 30 And, boy, is Valentine ever introduced by the Red Sox at whacks with a whip these different. a Fenway Park news confer-days,” Valentine said. “I A restaurateur who claims two-time minor-league MVP; “These last two years have ence on Thursday evening. think everyone likes disci-to have invented the wrap the son-in-law of former ma-been good for Bobby. It gave 
The 61-year-old replaces pline. I think everyone likes sandwich; a high school star jor leaguer Ralph Branca; the him a chance to get back and 
Terry Francona, who left af-structure. Everyone likes to in football and baseball; a manager of the NL pennant-become familiar with all the winning New York Mets and players in the major leagues. Japanese champion Chiba That will help him,” Branca Lotte Marines; the director said. “Boston is a challenge, of health and public safety in but when has he not liked Stamford, Conn.; purveyor of challenges?” an athletic training facility; A native of Connecticut and a successful TV analyst. a former roommate of Bill 
And he might even be most Buckner’s, Valentine was the famous for returning to the most intriguing candidate for dugout wearing a fake mus-the Red Sox job on a list that tache and sunglasses after included Gene Lamont, Dale being ejected from a game in Sveum, Torey Lovullo, Pete 1999; Major League Baseball Mackanin and Sandy Alomar fined him $5,000 and sus-Jr. After his name surfaced, pended him for three games. he was endorsed for the job 
Valentine’s personality not only by Lasorda but by 
certainly is large. Steve Phillips, the Mets GM And his resume is long. who bickered with Valentine But it has one major gap: and eventually fired him; 
He’s never won a World Se-Bush has also expressed a ries. fondness for his former skip­
“It drives all of us that per. do this for a living,” Mina-Minaya said Valentine’s ya said. “If you don’t win a outsized personality will be World Series and you’re a a plus in Boston, where fans competitor, it drives you.” still are stewing over last 
Valentine managed the year’s collapse. Texas Rangers from 1985-92, “All year they’re going to when he was fired by then-be reminded of what hap-owner and future U.S. Presi-pened in ‘11, and Bobby will dent George W. Bush. His be able to take the attention last big league managerial on himself,” said Minaya, job was with the Mets, from whose Mets missed the play­1996-02, where he guided offs on the last day of the sea-the Mets to consecutive wild-son after leading the division card berths and a trip to the in both 2007 and ‘08. “We 2000 World Series. lived it. There’s no doubt that 
Two years later, they fin-all year long the Red Sox are ished last and Valentine was going to be reminded of last fired, leaving him with a year. I think Bobby’s going to 1,117-1,072 record. He has be a positive force in getting never finished in first place people to focus on ‘12.” in 15 major league seasons. The Red Sox certainly hope 
But Valentine went to Japan so. and managed Chiba Lotte to At about the same time Val-a championship in 2005. He entine was landing in New has been working as an ana-York on his way back from lyst for ESPN, where he has a goodwill trip to Japan, the said Red Sox pitcher Josh Red Sox sent reporters an Beckett should work faster advisory that select tickets and left fielder Carl Crawford for 2012 will go on sale next should close his stance. week. 


page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com 
NFL 
Johnson fined $10,000 for excessive celebration 
Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. — Buffalo Bills receiver Stevie Johnson has been fined $10,000 by the NFL for mimicking shooting himself in the thigh during a touchdown celebra­tion last weekend that mocked New York Jets receiver Plaxico Burress. 
A person familiar with the league’s disciplinary action in­formed The Associated Press of the fine on Wednesday. The person spoke on the condition of anonymi­ty because the league has not made an announcement. 
Johnson declined to confirm whether he had been punished except to say he had an overnight courier envelope from the NFL waiting for him at his locker when he arrived for practice. Johnson left the envelope unopened because he expected to find inside formal noti­fication of his fine. 
Johnson said he was done dis­cussing the celebration — and the national criticism he received as a result of it — and is instead focus­ing on looking forward to helping the Bills (5-6) end a four-game slump on Sunday when they host the Tennessee Titans (6-5). 
“If I do, I get fined. But we’ve got to move on,” he said. “It’s the Ten­nessee Titans. I’m not really wor­ried about a fine right now. It’s part of the game. People get fined. But we’ve still got a football game on Sunday.” 
The Bills’ leading receiver got into hot water immediately after putting Buffalo up 14-7 by catch­ing a 5-yard touchdown pass with a little over two minutes left in the second quarter of a 28-24 loss at the Jets on Sunday. 
Using his hands as pistols, John­son pretended to shoot himself in the thigh, a move that was directed at Burress, who wound up serving 20 months in prison for shooting himself in a New York City night­club in 2008. 
Johnson didn’t stop there. He then imitated a jet in flight before crashing to the turf. That proved particularly costly, because he was flagged 15 yards for going to the ground. 
The Bills blew a squib kick on the next kickoff, leading to the Jets capitalizing on a short field to tie the score a little over a minute later. 
Johnson said he was unaware he would be penalized, and added he regrets making fun of Burress and has apologized to the Jets player. He also said he plans to stop per­forming touchdown celebrations. 
This isn’t the first time Johnson has been fined for his over-exuber­ance. 
Last year, he shelled out a com­bined $15,000 after twice being fined by the NFL. He was fined $10,000 for falling back to the ground after pretending to shoot off a rifle — mimicking what the Patriots’ Minutemen do following a New England score — in a 38-30 loss at New England on Sept. 26. 

The Observer u SPORTS Thursday, December 1, 2011 
NHL 

Bruins continue dominant play 
Associated Press 

TORONTO — Milan Lucic scored twice and David Kre­jci added a goal and two assists for the Boston Bruins, who beat the Toronto Maple Leafs 6-3 on Wednesday night for their 12th win in 13 games. 
The defending Stanley Cup champions rebounded from a slow start this season and went 12-0-1 in November, marking the first time since January 1969 that the Bruins went an entire month without a regulation loss. 
Tim Thomas made 34 saves and earned his ninth consecu­tive win. 
Zdeno Chara, Benoit Pouliot and Brad Marchand also scored for Boston (15-7-1), which hasn’t lost in regulation since Oct. 29 at Montreal. 
Mikhail Grabovski, Joffrey Lu­pul and Matt Frattin had goals for Toronto (14-9-2). 
The Maple Leafs pushed the Bruins to their limit in the first of a home-and-home series be­tween teams near the top of the Eastern Conference standings. They will face off again in Bos­ton on Saturday night. 
This game lived up to the hype as the quick skating teams took turns mounting rushes during the first period, in which the Bruins held a slight edge in pos­session and shots, 17-16. 
But the game was tied 1-1, with each team scoring on a power play. 
Grabovski netted Toronto’s first goal at 7:29, taking a per­fect cross-ice pass from Clarke MacArthur and beating Thomas with a backhander on the rush. It was his sixth goal of the sea­son. 

Jonas Gustavsson was strong early in goal for the Maple Leafs but was beaten after Boston’s extended 5-on-3 power play. The Bruins used crisp cross-ice passes to take apart the Leafs’ penalty-killers, and Lucic roofed a shot from the side of the net at 15:08 as the first penalty ex­pired. 
Shortly after, NHL scoring leader Phil Kessel was sent in on a breakaway but couldn’t beat Thomas with a deke. 
The game didn’t slow down in the second period. Krejci gave the Bruins a 2-1 lead at 3:33 by going hard to the net and knock­ing home a rebound off the rush. Kessel then found Lupul on a 2-on-1 break to get Toronto even at 7:00. 
Even Chara’s goal that made it 3-2 at 15:30 came off the rush. The big defenseman stepped up and beat Gustavsson short side with a heavy wrist shot the To­ronto goalie should have had. 
Pouliot put Boston ahead 4-2 early in the third period, and Frattin responded less than three minutes later to get Toron­to back within a goal. The Maple Leafs couldn’t get any closer. 


Thursday, December 1, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
SMC SWIMMING & DIVING 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles look to bounce 

SMC drops first conference game 
Observer Staff Report
back at invitational 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
After Saint Mary’s lost 137-66 at Valparaiso on Nov. 5, Belles coach Mark Benishek said the team would focus on peaking for the Nov. 18 and 19 Wabash Woehnker Invitational and this week’s Calvin Invitational. De­spite the Belles’ disappointing sixth-place fin­ish at Wabash, strong swims. We know we can always count on them for motiva­tion.” 
Benishek said this meet will help the Belles prepare for the MIAA conference championship held Feb. 15 to18. 
“There will be plenty of talent at Calvin,” Benishek said. “This meet is the same format as the 

Saint Mary’s lost at in-state rival Trine in a close 67-59 contest Wednesday night. 
The Belles (2-5, 0-1 MIAA) struggled shooting from the floor as they suffered a loss in their conference-opener. Saint Mary’s did not hit its first shot from the floor until 8:34 into the first half. The shoot­ing drought forced the Belles to play from behind the rest of 
they still have 
“This meet is the biggest 
an opportunity 
competition all season.
to bounce back 
It has three-quarters of
with a strong 
our conference and has
performance at Calvin. 
a number of fast Division 
“It’s the II schools that we will middle of the be competing against.” season and it is a good oppor-
Mark Benishek 
tunity for us to 
Belles coach 
gauge where we are as far as speed and conditioning,” Benishek said. 
The Belles have had strong swims from their upperclassmen all year, and Benishek said that trend must continue if they are going to have a successful meet. 
“Our senior leadership has been a strong point all year. [Se­niors] Katie Donovan, Megan Price and Audrey Dalrymple have all had strong performanc­es,” Benishek said. “Their se­nior leadership has been great and they have backed it up with 
Iowa 
continued from page 16 
end,” Welsh said. “We race to determine how our conference squad will be formed, and this is the last chance for guys to earn a spot on that team. There’s a lot of excitement about how this weekend could develop.” 
With excitement and pressure mounting around the Iowa Invi­tational, Welsh is confident his conference 
the game. 
championship 

Saint Mary’s fought back 
and it will give 

though, as the lead was cut to 
us a good idea 

eight points with nine minutes 
of how to pre­

left in the first half. Despite the 
pare.” 

rally, the Thunder (5-0, 1-0) 
A good 

separated themselves from the 
showing could 

Belles. Trine put together an 
also serve as 

11-2 run near the end of the 
half and went up 33-19.
a springboard 
for a success-

Early in the second half, the 
ful second half 

Belles cut the lead in half to 
of the season. 

seven points, but soon after­
“This meet 

ward, the Thunder extended 
is the biggest 

the margin to 10. Senior for-
competition 

ward Jessica Centa gave a 
all season,” 

spark to Saint Mary’s late in 
Benishek said. 

the half, narrowing the lead to 
“It has three-
five points. 
quarters of our 

The Belles outshot the Thun­
conference and has a number of 

der 65-43 and also had 10 less 
fast Division II schools that we 

turnovers, but Trine shot 56 
will be competing against.” 

The Calvin Invitational will begin today and continue all day Friday and Saturday. The compe­tition will take place at the Ven­ema Aquatic Center on the cam­pus of Calvin College in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
Indoor 
continued from page 16 

biggest meets on the sched­ule. Now that’s not to say that we don’t care about how we do in the other meets, but percent from the floor, while Saint Mary’s made just 31 per­cent of its shots. Senior guard Patsy Mahoney and sophomore guard Shanlynn Bias each led the Belles in scoring with 10 points apiece. 
This weekend, the Belles will look to even up their conference record when they face Alma (1­4, 1-0). Alma is led by a pair of freshmen in guard Grace Wheeler and forward Morgan Henry. Alma may have a losing record, but that is largely due to a strong schedule featuring a number of schools in higher divisions as well as national-ranked teams intended to im­prove its quality of play. 
Saint Mary’s will host Alma on Saturday at 3 p.m. 
enough talent to close the define Notre Dame’s season, gap and reclaim their perch one of its most anticipated on top of the conference this meets every year is the Meyo year. Invitational. The Irish host “We definitely can [chal-the Invitational at the Lof­
lenge  UConn  tus  Sports  
and win the  Center  on  
Big East], sure,” he said. “We just had a couple of bad breaks or we would have won last year twice. We’re a very good team this year. We  “We definitely can [challenge UConn and win the Big East], sure. We had just had a couple of bad breaks or we would have won last year twice. We’re a very good team this year. We have good kids everywhere.”  Feb. 3 and 4, and the p r est i -gious event b r i n g s some of the na­tion’s best at h l e t e s and per-for ma nc e s  
have  good  to  South  
kids  every- Joe Piane  Bend.  
where.”  Irish coach  “  O  u  r  
And  while  Meyo  In- 
the  confer- v i t at io n a l  
ence  and  is  always  
n at io n a l  very,  very  

championships may be what good,” Piane said. “We have 
teams from all over the coun­
try here, and probably the 
premier race there is the Invi­
tational Mile. Historically, we 
always see somebody under 
four minutes. That’s where 
Rae ran 3:59 last year.” 
Piane may have a solid idea of who his top performers will be this year, but he is also excited to see other ath­letes take the next step and turn in elite seasons. Their first chance to hit the track will be Friday at the Blue and Gold Meet. 
“We have quite a few [ath­letes who may step up to lead the team this year],” Piane said. “Randall Babb is a se­nior for us, and he’s a very good middle-distance [run­ner]. [Sophomore] Logan Renwick did a very good job for us last year in the long jump and triple jump and [senior] Andy Hills will do a very good job for us, as well. We’ve got some good fresh­men in as well, so we’re go­ing to be very good from top to bottom.” 
The Blue and Gold Meet takes place Friday at 5 p.m. at the Loftus Sports Center. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
team is prepared. 
“This meet plays a major role in our season. Because it’s a bigger meet, we’re making big­ger preparations, just as you would for an exam,” Welsh said. “We’re getting half our grade this weekend, so we’re prepar­ing.” 
The Irish will look for im­provement when they take to the pool Friday in Iowa City. 
Contact Jonathan Warren at jwarren3@nd.edu 

our main focus is preparing for the Big East and always being in the hunt to win it and then getting people to the NCAAs.” 
Last year, the Irish came up just short of that goal in both the indoor and outdoor seasons. After Connecticut edged second-place Notre Dame by less than five points at the indoor Big East cham­pionship, the Huskies won by just eight points in the spring. But with the depth he sees on the team this year, Piane believes the Irish have 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Thursday, December 1, 2011 
Shields in Mexico City. Lee, a
Lee 
former O’Neill resident, served 
continued from page 16 
dina. But the Mendoza School of Business product said he doesn’t put too much thought into whom or where he is fight­ing, focusing instead on his own technique and patient approach to each match. 
“I’m just going to fight who they put in front of me,” Lee said. “I have taken some time to work on different things with former world champions and trainers, but the key for me is to stay patient and pile up wins. I just need to stick to what I do best, regardless of who I am fighting. It’s all about being pa­tient and getting better.” 
On Sept. 16, Lee hosted the first professional fight held at Notre Dame, where he thrilled the capacity crowd at the Pur­cell Pavilion with a victory by unanimous decision over Ja­cob Stiers. All proceeds from “Fight Like a Champion” went to the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation and the Robinson Community Learning Center in South Bend. 
Less than two months later, Lee found himself far from the Joyce Center, training with re­nowned boxing trainer Ronnie as a sparring partner to former welterweight champion Kermit Cintròn. Lee said the learning experience was crucial to his growth as a fighter. 
“I [was] in Mexico for two weeks with [Cintròn]. Anytime you are in the ring with a for­mer world champion, it’s pretty special,” Lee said. “I have just learned so much and it is all about learning different things and putting it all together.” 
But Lee said he still remem­bers and is motivated by his blue-and-gold roots, which form much of the young phenom’s na­tional fan base. 
“I really appreciate all of the support from everyone on cam­pus,” Lee said. “[All my support­ers from Notre Dame] mean so much to me. There are those tough days in training, but when I think of all the support, it is really uplifting and encour­aging and keeps me tuned in to what I am doing.” 
Lee’s fight with Medina at Madison Square Garden will air live on HBO pay-per-view Satur­day night with the main event between Cotto and Margarito taking place at 9 p.m. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 

Grant 
continued from page 16 
Bulldogs (5-0) held the Irish to 
29.2 percent shooting from the floor before the break. 
Junior forward Jack Cooley was shutout in the first half and finished the game with six points and a team-high six rebounds. 
The Irish temporarily cut the lead to single-digits with 15 minutes to go in the second half. Junior forward Tom Knight scored in transition on an assist from junior guard Joey Brooks. Grant then stole the inbound pass and fed Knight for another lay-up which cut the lead to nine. But Bulldogs junior forward Elias Harris made a lay-up, was fouled and made the free throw to give Gonzaga a double-digit lead again, one they never relin­quished. 
“I was proud of our group that we could close it a little bit and get it to single-digits,” Brey said. “We talked about trying to get it to single-digits but they made big shots and we would break down in concentration defen­sively. We could never get four stops in a row and a lot of that is probably youth, and that’s something we have to keep com­ing back to and working on be­cause we’ve got a long way to go to be good enough to win a game on the road against a team like this.” 
Harris recorded a double-double for the Bulldogs, scoring 11 points and grabbing 15 re­bounds. Fifth-year center Rob­ert Sacre led all Bulldog scorers with 15. 
With fifth-year forward and captain Tim Abromaitis out for the season with an ACL injury, senior guard Scott Martin re­mains the lone captain for the Irish. Martin scored just one point on 0-for-6 shooting against the Bulldogs and turned the ball over twice. 
Notre Dame will take the court again in Washington, D.C., on Sunday against Maryland. The Irish and Terrapins will tip­off at 4:45 p.m. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 


Thursday, December 1, 2011 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 




EXPND JON REPINE 
JUMBLE 
JEFF KNUREK 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Bulldog blowout, from start to finish 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Senior Sports Writer 
The hostile environment of the McCarthy Athletic Center was too much for Notre Dame on Wednesday. The Irish turned the ball over 11 times in the first 12 minutes against No. 18 Gonzaga on their way to a 73-53 loss. 
“They really defended us and we could never get comfortable,” Irish coach Mike Brey said in a postgame radio interview with und.com. “And I was disappoint­ed because we were flustered on the road. A lot of that was Gon­zaga’s defense. For us to handle the ball like that … you’re just digging out of a hole. Their de­fense made us very uncomfort­able and we hurried things.” 
Sophomore guard Eric Atkins, who led the Big East last season in assist-to-turnover ratio, had five of his six turnovers and only one assist in the first half. Notre Dame’s leading scorer coming into the contest, Atkins shot just 2-for-9 from the floor, scoring six points, his lowest output of the season. 
“For Eric, it’s tough being the guy and handling the ball,” Brey said. “We didn’t work very hard to get open for him, but he’s got to be better with it and that’s part of the evolution of being the quarterback.” 
Sophomore guard Jerian Grant led all scorers with 16 points, but turned the ball over four times and had just three as­sists. 
The Irish (5-3) stayed close for the first seven minutes of the game until Gonzaga went on a 13-2 run, taking a 17-point lead. Freshman guard Pat Connaugh­ton hit two three-pointers in the last six minutes of the half, which cut the lead to 13 heading into the locker room. Connaugh­ton finished the game with 11 points off the bench. 
Notre Dame finished the first half with 13 turnovers, already over its 10.4-per-game average heading into the contest, and re­corded just two assists. The 
see GRANT/page 14 


DILLON WEISNER/The Observer 

Sophomore guard Jerian Grant dribbles past a Delaware State defender during Notre Dame’s 93­69 victory Nov. 21. The Irish lost 73-53 at Gonzaga on Wednesday. 
MEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 

Irish prepare to face elite competition at Iowa Invitational 
By JONATHAN WARREN take this exam to see how well Iowa is at home and we’ve had lot of improvement.” will also bring momentum to Sports Writer we did this fall.” very close meets with Denver The Irish are coming off a dis-Iowa City after having won both The Irish will face strong over the years.” appointing 191-109 loss to con-the one-meter and three-meter The Irish travel to Iowa City competition from No. 1 Michi-In the midst of strong compe-ference rival No. 16 Louisville diving events against Louisville. for the Iowa Invitational this gan and No. 10 Iowa, as well tition, Welsh said he will look for and hope to perform at a higher Freshman Jimmy McEldrew is weekend to participate in what as Denver, Wisconsin-Green individual improvement rather level this weekend. becoming a team leader after will be the biggest meet of their Bay and Wisconsin-Milwaukee. than focus on final standings Sophomore Frank Dyer will grabbing second place in the season thus far. Michigan defeated the Irish 174-early in the season. try to continue his streak of 1,000-yard freestyle and 200­
“When this meet’s over, it’s 119 earlier this season. “What we need is for our guys first-place finishes at every yard backstroke against the like halftime for our season,” “This is elite competition — to swim very well,” Welsh said. meet this year, which includes Cardinals. Irish coach Tim Welsh said. very, very elite,” Welsh said. “If “We don’t look at it as a duel wins in the 50-yard and 500-“To be honest, we need quite a “You carry what you did in the you look at national rankings, with other teams, but as how yard freestyle races against the few guys to break out this week first half into the second half. we’re talking teams at the very much we have improved this se-Cardinals. It’s like a final exam for us. We’ll top. The Big Ten is always good. mester, and we’re hoping for a Freshman diver Michael Kreft see IOWA/page 13 
BOXING 
Lee excited for upcoming fight 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
At 24 years old, Mike Lee has fought in front of crowds at Cowboys Stadium and Manda­lay Bay in Las Vegas. But now, the 2009 Notre Dame graduate has what he calls the experi­ence of a lifetime in front of him — straight from Madison Square Garden. 
“Growing up watching fights at the Garden, it’s going to be pretty amazing to be there,” Lee said. “It’s the experience of a lifetime without a doubt. It’s always a boxer’s dream to fight there, so it will be pretty sur­real.” 
Lee (7-0-0, 4 KO’s) will con­tinue his young fighting career on the undercard of the super welterweight title fight Satur­day between Miguel Cotto and Antonio Margarito. The former Bengal Bouts champion will face Allen Medina (9-19-1, 1 KO) in a six-round bout from “the Mecca of Boxing,” a venue that 
MEN’S TRACK & FIELD 
Blue and Gold meet kicks off indoor season 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a success­ful cross country season that featured a berth at the NCAA championship meet, Irish coach Joe Piane and Notre Dame will rejoin the full complement of track and field athletes when they begin their indoor cam­paign Friday by hosting the Blue and Gold Meet. 
The Irish enter the year with what may be their deepest team in a while, but that’s not the only thing that has Piane feeling warm about the upcoming season. 
“It’s wonderful indoors because the weather’s al­ways perfect in here,” he said. “We have the biggest indoor track in the coun­try and, boy, we have some pretty good athletes.” 
Those returning athletes are some of the nation’s best performers from last year, including several All-Americans and Big East champions. Three-quarters of last year’s All-American distance medley relay team return in senior John Shaw-el, junior Jeremy Rae and sophomore Patrick Feeney. Senior pole vaulter Kevin Schipper won the Big East last season. With these types of athletes, Notre Dame hopes to turn in strong per­formances at its two biggest meets of the season. 
“Our goals always are to do well in the Big East meet, win there and then to do well at the NCAAs,” Piane said. “Those are our two 
see INDOOR/page 13 

doesn’t intimidate Lee. 
“I don’t really get nervous with all of the hype and the lights on the big stage. I really embrace it,” Lee said. “My whole mindset is pretty focused: less nerves, more fighting. I think it is a good thing that I don’t get rattled by all the pressure because it lets me focus on what I need to do.” 
Just two and a half years re­moved from a cap and gown, Lee will face a seven-year pro­fessional boxing veteran in Me 
see LEE/page 14 




