the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 



Osama bin Laden killed in Pakistan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Osama bin Laden, the glowering mastermind behind the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks that murdered thousands of Americans, was killed in an operation led by the United States, President Barack Obama said Sunday. 
“Justice has been done,” said the president in a dramatic late-night announcement at the White House. 
A small team of Americans killed bin Laden in a firefight Sunday at a compound in Pakistan, the president said, and took custody of his remains. Americaj officials said they were being handled in accordance with Islamic tradition. 
A jubilant crowd gathered out­side the White House as word 

see bIN LADEN/page 6 



ND names leprechaun 
Junior Mike George prepares for role as iconic Notre Dame figure 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 

Notre Dame took another step in preparations for next football season Friday, naming junior Mike George as the varsity Gold Squad Leprechaun for the 2011­2012 school year. 
George was one of five stu­dents who made it to the final tryouts for the leprechaun posi­tion. The tryout, held in the Pit the basement of the JACC, con­sisted of a mock pep rally and introduction for a speaker, react­ing to an in-game situation, a media interview, an Irish jig and apushup contest. 
George, a resident of Keough Hall hailing from Eden Prairie, Minn., served as the junior varsi­ty Leprechaun for the Blue & Green Squad this past year. He said he was well prepared for tryouts as a result of his time on the Blue & Green Squad. 
“It is great because you have experienced a lot of situations before. We would be presented with some things over the course of our tryout, and [I] actually had experienced those situations,” 
George said. “The new people 
might try to imagine that, but [I] 
have had the chance to experi­
ence it so it makes it easier.” 
George said he has learned to 
quell his nerves before such 
daunting situations as the tryout. 
“You always get a little bit of 
fluttering right before you step 
out, and as soon as you step on 
it’s a matter of just saying, ‘All 
right, its time to go,’” he said. 
George said remembering 
what the leprechaun represents 
helps him prepare for big-game 
see LEPRECHAUN/page 4 




Fisher Hall celebrates Regatta 
By CASEY KENNY 
News Writer 

The clouds parted, the sun came out and cries of “You Gotta Regatta!” reverberated from Saint Mary’s Lake Saturday afternoon as Fisher Hall hosted the 25th Annual Fisher Regatta. The chilly waters and bitter winds did-n’t deter 22 men’s teams and 18 women’s teams from entering this year’s competi­tive boat race that pitted res­idence hall teams against each other in a single elimi­nation men’s and women’s bracket tournament. 
“We made an effort to make this year’s regatta the biggest and best yet,” junior race commissioner and Fisher res­ident Kevin Bell said. “We only have one rule this year and that is: fun is mandatory but floating is not.” 
Hall residents mustered their creativity and scav ­enged for materials to design and build their vessels — some more seaworthy than others. 
“Our goal is just not to sink,” Ryan freshman Pearl Banchuin said, standing by her hall’s vessel which con­sisted of inner tubes and an assortment of floating devices. “We spent about five hours making the boat and put a lot of spirit into it, but you can’t sink spirit.” 
Residents of Dillon had a like-minded attitude when they constructed their enor­mous 10-person “Paying Doo$” boat that towered high above the other vessels. 
“We’re just a couple guys who lost last year and are trying to stay afloat this year,” Dillon sophomore John Clohisy said. “We’re going more for shock factor than first place.” 
Siegfried teammates also entered their craft simply to join in the fun of the event. 
“We are hoping to make it 20 yards if we’re lucky,” Michael Isaacs said of his team’s air mattress that served as their boat. “We probably spent about 15 min­utes on this — five minutes driving to Goodwill, five min­utes driving back and five minutes blowing up the air mattress.” 
Other teams entered the race with the desire to win and their substantial efforts were reflected in the vessels. 
“We spent about 30 hours planning and painting,” Pasquerilla East Hall sopho­more Katie Rose said. “We plan on rowing like champi­ons today and think we’re strong contenders.” 
In an effort to return to the winner’s circle this year, Fisher Hall entered the com­petition with seven boats, ranging from speedy canoes to a large party barge made of empty beer kegs — four of which made it to the elite final eight. 

see REGATTA/page 5 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students launch business page 3  Viewpoint page 8  Royal Wedding fasion page 10  Men’s lacrosse faces defeat page 20 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, May 2, 2011 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Andrew Owens Nicole Toczauer Matthew Robison Tori Roeck Matt Unger 

Graphics Scene 
Melissa Kaduck Maria Fernández 
Photo Viewpoint 
Suzanna Pratt Ren Brauweiler 
Question: What is your favorite childhood memory? Michael: When we won the city championship in football during seventh grade. 
Q: 
FC Barcelona or Real Madrid? Michael: Madrid. 

Q: 
If you could travel any­where in the world, where would it be? Why? Michael: Florence, Italy. I love everything about Italy, and it’s a beautiful city. 


Q: 
Your usual order at Starbucks? Michael: Mocha frappuccino. 

Q: 
Favorite on-campus cafe? Michael: Waddick’s. I’m usually there hanging out with friends or procrastinating. 

Q: 
Plans after graduating from Notre Dame? Michael: Medical school and then helping in third-world coun­tries. 




Michael Castillo 
senior off-campus 


SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Students cheered outside the Golden Dome following President Obama’s speech announcing the death of Osama bin Laden. Crowds displayed flags, set fireworks off on South Quad, played music and ran through La Fortune and the Hesburgh Library. Similar celebrations occurred outside the White House, Ground Zero and campuses across the nation. 
OFFBEAT 

Salon owner challenges Arizona over fish pedicures 
PHOENIX — An Arizona appeals court says a business owner is entitled to challenge the constitutionality of state rules barring her from using fish in her salon pedicures. 
The Arizona Court of Appeals ruled Friday that Cindy Vong can sue over the Arizona Board of Cosmetology’s threat to pull her license if she didn’t stop offering the pedicure, which uses fish to eat dead skin off clients’ feet. 
The board alleged the fish were unsafe because they couldn’t be sterilized. 
Conservative watchdog group The Goldwater Institute had filed a civil suit on her behalf, saying the 
Know someone chill for Monday’s Icebreaker? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
Dr. Cynthia Feliciano ,a professor of sociology and Chicano/Latino studies at the University of California at Irvine, will be giving a lec­ture today titled “Immigrant Origins and the Latino Disadvantage in Educational Attainment.” The talk, tak­ing place at 3 p.m. in Andrews Auditorium in Geddes Hall, is part of the Henkels Lecture Series “Hispanics and Educational Inequality in the U.S.” 
Dine Like Caesar: the Classics Club is sponsoring its weekly Latin Lunch tomorrow at 11:30 a.m. in the Pasta Room of North Dining Hall. 
Pedro Ramos Pinto of the University of Manchester will be giving a talk tomorrow titled “Crisis, Anxiety and the Colonial Origins of the Welfare State in Portugal, 1928 -1944.” The lecture, sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, will take place in Room C103 in the Hesburgh Center at 12:30 p.m. 
The Notre Dame Jazz Bands , joined by the New Orleans Brass Band, will be performing a concert tomor­row night in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 7 
p.m. The concert is free but seats can be reserved ahead of time. 
Ben Stone will be perform­ing a student organ recital tomorrow night at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 8 p.m. The recital is free but ticketed. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
thursday friday 


broad violated Vong’s right to run her business in the Phoenix suburb of Gilbert. 
The lawsuit says the board lacks jurisdiction because the pedicure isn’t a cosmetic service. 
A lower court had dis­missed the suit. 
Leaking Massachusetts house calls 911 for help 
MARBLEHEAD, Mass. — After months of enduring a leaking pipe that buckled its floors and sagged its ceil­ings, an empty Massachusetts house some­how called police for help. 
The Salem News reports the 911 call went out to police from a house in Marblehead on Wednesday after water short-circuited the phone system, apparent­ly sparking the emergency call. 
Officers were sent to the address after the call was recorded as a hang up and a return call got static. 
Inside, they found the wreckage, including poten­tially toxic mold, from a pipe that apparently burst during the winter. 
Town officials say the inte­rior may have to be gutted. 
Police couldn’t immediate­ly locate owner James Cowen. His cousin, William Cowen, said he’s not wor­ried. He says James was left financially secure by his father and often travels. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Tuesday Wednesday 


CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Monday, May 2, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Students launch business 

By JILL BARWICK 
News Writer 
Two Saint Mary’s juniors and two seniors have spent the past year creating BTG Advertising, an agency intent on establishing a connection between students and the community. 
Juniors Amanda Lester and Melissa Jackson, along with sen­iors Marianne Jones and Amanda Gajor, created the company. 
“BTG Advertising” stands for “Bridging The Gap,” the main goal for the project. The company aims to bring together Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross cam­puses with the local community. 
The four women are enrolled in a class at Saint Mary’s called New Ventures, a yearlong course teach­ing the practical aspects of start­ing and running a business. 
“We learned the basics of writ­ing a business plan, accessing financing, basic sales techniques, and how to actually run a busi­ness,” Lester said. 
“We decided to start an adver­tising company because we believed there was a need to assist local businesses to effectively reach the student market at the University of Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s College and Holy Cross College,” Lester said. 
BTG placed monitors on the Transpo Trolley to attract the attention of the riders to its bloom­ing business and also to advertise its current clients which include the South Bend Silver Hawks, AAA Storage, Chili’s, Papa Vino’s, the Saint Mary’s College Student Activities Board and Clover Ridge and Clover Village Apartments. 
“We wanted to establish a viable business, one that was capable of making a profit, and also could possibly represent a win-win situ­ation for both the local business and students,” Lester said. “We also hoped to come up with a busi­ness concept which utilized tech­nology that was readily available.” 
BTG chose to highlight its busi­ness this week by giving away free tickets to the South Bend Silver Hawks baseball game Sunday. Students who rode the Transpo Trolley Wednesday received these tickets to BTG’s night at Coveleski Stadium. 
“Our mission statement is to ‘bridge the gap between the cam­pus and the community,’” Lester said. “Giving away baseball tickets to students seemed a natural way to increase exposure for our client, the South Bend Silver Hawks, and to provide the student community free access to an after­noon of watching professional baseball.” 
Lester said they distributed 100 tickets to Sunday’s game. 
“The effort seems like it has the potential to be a big success. We distributed a total of 100 tickets to Sunday’s Silver Hawks game. “The students seemed to appreciate the free tickets. We hope the utiliza­tion rate is very high. Our compa­ny also benefited from the expo­sure, as did the Transpo Trolley,” Lester said. “The sponsorship and availability of free tickets to the riders helped us to support local business and represents the com­mitment by the founders of BTG Advertising to give back to the community.” 
Contact Jill Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Habitat for Humanity club constructs homes 
By CECILIA GLOVER 
News Writer 
More than 20 students from the Habitat for Humanity club at Saint Mary’s College joined South Bend high school stu­dents and community mem­bers to paint and do construc­tion work on a house in the local community Saturday. 
The event, “Rock the House,” is the second build the Habitat for Humanity club has had this year. The first build consisted of constructing the framework for the house at the club’s warehouse. The framework was then moved to a specific site on Saturday where the club members painted and did construction work on the house. Along with the club members, the family of the house helped with the con­struction work. 
“It was nice meeting the family of the house and know­ing that they would soon be liv­ing there,” said Cara O’Connor-Combee, sophomore and vice president of the club. “The work we do in Habitat is so meaningful.” 
The club’s mission is to encourage Saint Mary’s women to become more involved in the community by volunteering their time to those less fortu­nate and in need of homes, O’Connor-Combee said. 
“It is very impressive to see so many Saint Mary’s students volunteering four hours of their time to building houses on the weekends,” O’Connor-Combee said. 
Sophomore treasurer Chelsea Young said the club members donate time on the weekends by working at the warehouse and volunteering on build sites. 
“I loved seeing the progress of the house throughout the day,” Young said. “I think it is great that Saint Mary’s stu­dents have the chance to help families who are in need.” 
O’Connor-Combee said the Habitat for Humanity club hopes to continue some of the construction on the house next Saturday. The club will work with South Bend high schools, community members and the family to finish putting up walls and doors in the house. 
“The club is new so we are really trying to promote it and get more Saint Mary’s girls involved,” Young said. 
Members of the club hope to work with the Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity during next school year, she said. 
“Sometimes we get so wrapped up in our own lives that we forget that there are others out there who need our help,” O’Connor-Combee said. “Habitat allows us to recognize how fortunate we are and lend a helping hand.” 
Contact Cecilia Glover at cglove01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, May 2, 2011 

Leprechaun 
continued from page 1 
conditions. 
“People always ask me how I do not freak out when I am up there, how in front of a crowd I can do these crazy things. The way I have learned to deal with that is, you don’t look at it as you yourself are up there,” he said. “The lep­rechaun is up there. When you enter that mentality, it makes things a blast.” 
Disappearing into the spirit of the role is what all those who have held the position hope to achieve, George said. 
“You don’t have to worry what people think,” he said. “It is not you, it is the leprechaun. You can embody that spirit of Notre Dame, which is what all leprechauns strive for.” 
Two football games in particu­lar stand out as key events in his term as leprechaun, George said. 
“You’ve got the night game at the Big House [at the University of Michigan] that everyone is really excited for,” he said. “But we have our own night game [against USC,] which I think everyone is even more excited for, so those are going to be awesome times on campus.” 
George said he also is looking to energize the spirit of Notre Dame in new ways. 
“I’m also looking for the chance to affect tradition a little bit,” he said. “We stick very much to tra­dition here at Notre Dame, which is great, but we want to make that come alive again too, in any way.” 
Though he had no cheerleading experience prior to his time at Notre Dame, George said in high school he was active in coordinat­ing spirit events. 
“I’ve had experience planning things out. Knowing that, I can bring that here to Notre Dame and use some of my friends throughout the University to [brainstorm] what we can do to make tradition come alive,” he said. “I think we will come up with some great ideas this sum­mer, as well as the stuff we know and love that is not going to change.” 
Although he wants to energize campus in a variety of ways, George said as it stands now the success of the athletic teams has taken care of a lot of the work on their own. 
“We don’t need that much now to be excited for next year or right now given the success of all our sports teams,” he said. “There’s not too much we need to do to build on that excitement, it is already there. It is just going to be a matter of what we can do to supplement that.” 
Although he was reluctant at first, George said it was at the behest of some friends who visit­ed Notre Dame that he decided to try out for leprechaun. 
“When I finally got to try-outs at the end of the year, I said to myself if I was going to do it, I wanted to go all out, I am not going to take any half measures,” he said. “At the very least I [was] going to have some interesting stories.” 
Though he said he has many fond memories of his tenure as Leprechaun on the Blue & Green squad, George said one women’s basketball game stands out in particular. He spotted a young fan in the stands during this season’s game versus Seton Hall with a sign reading, “Leprechaun Mike is Awesome!” and ran up to greet him. 
“Then some of the fans suggest­ed taking him down on the floor with me, so I did. He ended up cheering the rest of the game with our team, helping out with every­thing,” George said. “He was a perfect leprechaun, already seemed to know how to ham it up for the camera, and had much better dance moves than me.” 
Sophomore Bryce Burton, a res­ident of Siegfried Hall from Newburgh, Ind., was selected to succeed George as Leprechaun for the Blue & Green Squad. He said he anticipates spreading the tradition of the position across the country. 
“It is really exciting to represent Notre Dame and to do all the traveling that goes with it,” Burton said. 
Burton said he appreciates the support from peers who encour­aged him at Friday’s tryouts. 
“I had to make sure all my friends were there and there was some loud support for me,” he said. “I bring a lot of excitement and I just think it is good we final­ly have another redheaded Leprechaun.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


Notre Dame rugby club celebrates 50th year 

By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Several students and alumni gathered on campus for a differ­ent kind of reunion this weekend 
— the 50th anniversary of the Notre Dame rugby club. 
Club president Patrick Griffin said the Notre Dame rugby club “has a long and storied history.” 
The club was founded in 1961 and became a national power after winning the national cham­
pionship in 1965, the senior said. 
“In the mid­80s and 90s the club was kicked off campus for behavioral prob­lems,” he said. “We finally regained status as an official uni­versity club sport 

“[The Notre Dame rugby club] has a long and storied history.” 
Patrick Griffn president Notre Dame rugby club 
cially after this weekend, when alumni from many genera­tions, including the original 1961 team, returned to campus,” he said. 
Griffin said the club has been a big part of his life as a student and that he will miss it 
in 2008 and have experienced meteoric growth ever since.” 
In its first year as a club sport, the team moved from Division II to Division I status, Griffin said. 
“We competed in the Midwest League for the next few years and finished the 2010 season at the top of the League,” he said. 
The club was also one of the nation’s 31 most elite teams to be selected for the Collegiate Premier Division. 
“We were expected to finish as the bottom of the League, but instead finished in third place with victories over LSU, Oklahoma, Tennessee and rival Ohio State,” he said. 
The club will participate in the second annual Collegiate Rugby Championship 7’s tournament in Philadelphia this summer. 
Griffin said the Notre Dame rugby club also has strong sup­port from alumni. 
“The camaraderie and tradi­tion of the team is evident espe­
once he graduates. 
“I have been a member of the club for four years and it has been one of the greatest experi­ences of my time at Notre Dame,” he said. “I have met some of my best friends through the club and I still play rugby with many of the players who graduated in past years.” 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 

Monday, May 2, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Keenan Hall representatives bare the cold waters of Saint Mary’s Lake Saturday afternoon on a raft. Teams built their watercrafts from old lofts, insulation foam, inflated trashbags and other buoyant materials. Knott Hall and Badin Hall took home the trophies from the competition. 

Regatta 
continued from page 1 
While none of these halls’ vessels ultimately made it to the final round, their boats and competitive spirits enlivened the atmosphere of the Regatta and made for fierce competition as the teams competed for the crown. 
In the women’s bracket, Badin Hall beat McGlinn Hall to take home the trophy. On the men’s side, Knott Hall squeaked by O’Neill Hall in a close finish that saw a wild and cheering crowd on its feet for the final yards of the race. 
“In the end, the Regatta is all about having fun,” Bell said. “There was a great turn out, great weather, free drinks, more food than ever and everyone had a great time coming together.” 
Contact Casey Kenny at ckenny@nd.edu 



Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE — Millions of demonstrators around the world marched for labor rights Sunday, including thou­sands in Wisconsin who con­tinued their divisive battle 
over collective -bargaining rights that began in February and had prompted huge mass­es of protesters to pour into the Madison Capitol. 
Wisconsin demonstrators marched two miles through downtown Milwaukee, waving 
U.S. and Mexican flags and holding signs showing a raised fist in the shape of the state. Similar scenes played 
out across the nation and around the world, as millions of workers from Havana to Berlin and Istanbul took to the streets. 
Milwaukee demonstrators pounded drums, blared through vuvuzelas and chant­ed, “Si se puede,” Spanish for “yes, it can be done.” They also held signs saying, “It’s about freedom,” and “Working hard is not a crime.” 
The rally ended at a park on the shores of Lake Michigan, where AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka told marchers they had the sup­port of labor unions because 
Workers demand better jobs and pay 
both groups were being attacked by the same conser­vative opponents. 
“It’s the same fight,” he said. “It’s the same people that are attacking immigrants’ rights, workers’ rights, stu­dent rights, voting rights.” 
May 1 is a traditional date for pro-labor demonstrations. Immigration advocates in the United States latched onto the celebrations in 2006. 
Carlos Gutierrez, 40, of Oak Creek, Wis., said it was wrong to ostracize immigrant work­ers because “if people are willing to work hard for a bet­ter life, it doesn’t matter where they grew up.” 
The burning issues at rallies around the world were the same: more jobs, better work­ing conditions, higher wages and decent health care. 
“STOP the deportations!” read a placard in Manhattan’s Union Square, where about 1,000 people gathered at noon before marching down Broadway for a rally in Foley Square. 
The square is feet from a federal building that houses the New York office of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, which is in charge of removal opera­tions involving illegal immi­grants. 

page 6 The Observer . NEWS Monday, May 2, 2011 
Brothers navigate nation for entrepreneurs 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
After 10 months and almost 40,000 miles, Notre Dame alumni and brothers Walter and Patrick Hessert have con­tinued to promote small busi­ness and the American entre­preneurial spirit with their Million Dollar Road Trip, a journey across the country in their 23-foot Airstream trailer with the goal of covering it in advertisements of American brands. 
“We are just continuing to build on this thing, discovering new stories and awesome inspiring entrepreneurs,” Walter Hessert said. “Our ded­ication is to cover our Airstream with this mosaic.” 
Through their travels, the brother’s mission with Million Dollar Road Trip has contin­ued to evolve. They recently decided to add six months to their nearly year-long trip in the hopes of traveling to parts of their country they have yet to see, like the Northwest, and to discover new entrepreneurs to showcase. 
The brothers are continuing to nurture and develop this unique community of entre­preneurs on their Road Trip. They are currently in southern Louisiana. On this leg of the Trip, the brothers plan on going to visit the family-owned company that makes Tabasco sauce, Walter Hessert said. 


This month, they plan on heading north from the south to catch the Kentucky Derby, as well as the Indy 500 race in Indianapolis, Ind. Later, the brothers will head west to Nevada for the Burning Man music festival. 
While traveling across the country, the brothers have stayed close to their Notre Dame roots. 
“There is an entrepreneurial community that comes out of Notre Dame that undergrads don’t always here about,” Walter Hessert said. “Some of the people [from Notre Dame] in the start up world have amazing stories.” 
The Hesserts have combined their Notre Dame community with the community of entre­preneurs Million Dollar Road Trip has created. 
For example, Jeff Stuffings, a 2003 alum, started his own brewery with his brother. Stuffings and his brother built the brewery by hand. 
“I was tired of working for a paycheck,” Stuffings said on milliondollarroadtrip.com, dedicated to the Hesserts’ trip. “I wanted to wake up and be excited about work.” 
The brewery, Jester King Brewery, was awarded the seventh Million Dollar Road Trip Inspiration Grant of $500. The Inspiration Grants are awarded to entrepreneurs that the Hessert brothers think embody the American entre­preneurial spirit they promote. Candidates are posted every other Sunday on the Trip’s website, and website visitors vote on who they think deserves the grant. The win­ners receive a cash prize and free advertising on the side of the Airstream. 
“In some cases, there are some businesses where we just go and pull up in front of a company, walk inside and see if we can talk to someone,” Hessert said. “And then there are some that we hear about and decide we need to learn more.” 
The Hesserts rely on their community of entrepreneurs, not just for connections to the business world, but also to keep them going. 
“I don’t feel tired of it at all,” Walter Hessert said about liv­ing in a trailer for almost a year. “It’s reinvigorating.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

Lead-ND hosts Project CPR to fight local food shortage 
Matt Lynch, one of the event income families with the stu-a food drive on campus where of the Notre Dame community as 
By ADAM LLORENS 

coordinators, said. “Clay, Jackson dents, we saw the passion they students and staff were able to well to help make the event a 
News Writer 

and Jefferson are the schools we felt for the issue and knew that donate non-perishable good. … success. 
focus on, and the students at was going to be the focus of this In the end, we had four full “We got a lot of help from local 
Lead-ND, a group of student these schools helped us with the year’s project.” boxes of food left over that the State Farm agent Calvin Johnson volunteers working with local project.” At the gathering, local families people were able take amongst and South Bend Council member South Bend students, hosted The group held the project at were entertained with the themselves.” Henry Davis,” Lynch said. “Our their annual end-of-the-year Beacon Heights Park. Junior J.P. sounds of the Notre Dame Glee Participation in the event was students from the grade schools service work called Project CPR: McCabe also helped coordinate Club and were treated to a din-high, as expected, he said. came out as well and helped to Community. Preservation. the event. ner. In addition, each person was “We had about 80 to 100 peo-distribute food to the guest and Revival. Saturday, in hopes of “One of the main problems we able to leave with a substantial ple attend the event, though were able to interact with chil­increasing awareness of South discovered with the South Bend amount of non-perishable food many came at the end to simply dren attending the dinner. … It Bend’s growing food shortage. community is the shortage of items. pick up their non-perishable was a really enjoyable and fun 
“The mission of LeadND is to food that many citizens experi-“One hundred and twenty eight food,” Lynch said. experience.” assist in the educational process ence,” Lynch said. “When we boxes of food were donated by In addition to the members of of local schools within the South talked [with our group] about the the Indiana Food Bank,” Lynch the Lead-ND, the club received Contact Adam Llorens at Bend community,” sophomore possibility of helping out low-said. “In addition to this, we had assistance from members outside allorens@nd.edu 
bin Laden 
continued from page 1 
spread of bin Laden’s death after a global manhunt that lasted nearly a decade. 
Former President George W. Bush, who was in office on the day of the attacks, issued a written statement hailing bin Laden’s death as a momentous achieve­ment. “The fight against terror goes on, but tonight America has sent an unmistakable message: No matter how long it takes, justice will be done,” he said. 
Obama said he ordered the operation after receiving undis­closed intelligence information. Senior administration officials said the terrorist mastermind was found inside a custom-built com­pound with two security gates. They said it appeared to hvae been constructed to harbor one high-value target and that for undis­closed reasons, officials became clear the hideout was bin Laden’s. 
Officials also said they believe the death puts al-Qaida on a path of decline that will be difficult to reverse, but there was no word on the whereabouts of bin Laden’s second-in-command, Ayman al-Zawahri. 
The stunning end to the world’s most widely-watched manhunt came just months before the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Centers and Pentagon, orchestrated by bin Laden’s al-Qaida organization, that killed more than 3,000 people. 
The attacks a decade ago seemed to come out of nowhere, even though al-Qaida had previ­ously damaged American targets overseas. 
The terrorists hijacked planes, flew one of them into one of Manhattan’s Twin Towers — and, moments later, into the other one. Both buildings collapsed, trapping thousands inside and claiming the lives of firefighters and others who had rushed to help them. 
A third plane slammed into the Pentagon, defacing the symbol of America’s military night. A fourth crashed in rural Pennsylvania after passengers overpowered the hijackers and forced the craft from the air — before it could hit its intended target in Washington. 
The attacks set off a chain of events that led the United States into wars in Afghanistan, and then Iraq, and America’s entire intelli­gence apparatus was overhauled to counter the threat of more ter­ror attacks at home. 
A senior administration official says Obama gave the final order for U.S. officials to go after bin Laden on Friday. The official added that a small team found their quarry hiding in a large home in an affluent suburb of Islamabad. The raid occurred in the early morning hours Sunday. 
Administration officials offered some details of the operation. Based on statements given by 
U.S. detainees, intelligence officials have known for years that bin Laden trusted one al-Qaida courier in particular and they believed he might be living with him in hiding. In November, intelligence officials found out where he was living, a huge fortified compound in an affluent suburb of Islamabad. It was surrounded by walls as high as 18 feet high, topped with barbed wire. There were two security gates and no phone or Internet running into the house. 
Intelligence officials believed the $1 million home was custom-built to harbor a major terrorist. CIA experts analyzed whether it could be anyone else, but time and again, they decided it was almost certainly bin Laden. 
Three adult males were also killed in Sunday’s raid, including one of bin Laden’s sons, whom offi­cials did not name. One of bin Laden’s sons, Hamza, is a senior member of al-Qaida. 
Obama spoke with Bush and for­mer President Bill Clinton Sunday night to inform them of the devel­opments. 
Obama struck a less than boast­ful tone in his brief announcement, although he said the death of bin Laden was “the most significant achievement to date in our nation’s effort to defeat al-Qaida. 
“His death does not mark the end of our effort. There’s no doubt that al-Qaida will continue to pur­sue attacks against us. We must and we will remain vigilant,” he added. 
Moments after he spoke, American officials cautioned that the events could lead to heightened threats against the United States. 
Officials said the U.S. would ensure that bin Laden’s body was handled in accordance with Islamic tradition. 


Monday, May 2, 2011 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Legal fight erupts over levee 
Associated Press 
CAIRO, Ill. — A legal fight over whether the Army Corps of Engineers should blast open a levee to relieve the rain-swollen Mississippi River went to the nation’s highest court Sunday as the Illinois town the breach is meant to help during record flooding was cleared out. 
As Missouri asked the U.S. Supreme Court to block the corps’ plan, struggling Cairo near the confluence of Ohio and Mississippi rivers resem­bled a ghost town as Illinois National Guard troops went door to door with law enforcers to enforce the mayor’s “mandatory” evacua­tion order the previous night. 
About 20 to 30 families were allowed to stay — a courtesy extended only to adults — in the 2,800-resident town after signing waivers acknowledging that they understood the potential peril, National Guard Sgt. 1st Class Heath Clark said. 
“If you’re (possibly) losing everything and don’t know where to go, you wouldn’t want to leave, either,” he told The Associated Press during a staging area in the Cairo High School cafeteria. 
Maj. Gen. Michael Walsh, the Corps officer in charge of deciding whether to breach the levee, on Sunday ordered field crews to move barges to the Missouri side of the river and begin loading pipes in the levee with explosives in antici­pation of blowing up a two-mile section just downriver from Cairo. He stressed that the decision to do so has not been made. 
Walsh said it would take 20 ours to get the pipes filled, during which time he will review conditions before deciding what to do. Destroying the levee would provide a relief valve to ease the menacing rivers and ulti­mately lower them, taking pressure off Cairo’s floodwall and other levees father south along the Mississippi. 

But the plan possibly would inundate 130,000 acres of now-evacuated farmland in Missouri’s agriculture-reliant Mississippi County, causing what Missouri argues would crush that region’s economy and environment by rendering that cropland useless under potentially feet of sand and silt. 
Missouri Attorney General Chris Koster, whose bid to derail the corps’ plan in recent days included failed requests to a federal district judge and an appellate court, took the case to the U.S. Supreme Court, noting “it is the respon­sibility of this office to pursue every possible avenue of legal review.” 
Corps officials are monitor­ing water levels and haven’t decided whether to go through with the blast to blunt the rise of the Ohio, which on Sunday afternoon had risen to 59.93 feet at Cairo — eclipsing the 1937 record there of 59.5 feet. The river was expected to crest Tuesday at 61.5 feet and stay there for days, raising the corps’ concerns about the lin­gering strain water that high could put on levees. Cairo’s flood wall can handle 64 feet. 
Sunday’s house-to-house canvass came as more thun­derstorms passed through the already waterlogged, rain-pummeled region — and as emergency-management offi­cials in Cairo focused warily on a “sand boil” — an area of river seepage that’s a potential sign of trouble — pooled to 40 feet wide and 12 feet deep about 100 yards from the floodwall. 
Marty Nicholson, Alexander County’s emergency manage­ment coordinator, said the boil was in check, resembling a doughnut surrounded by a mound of plastic-covered rock and sandbags. 
“We’ve had sand boils before, but never this big,” Nicholson said, noting that some 70 percent of the 9,600­resident county was flooded. 
Just 17 miles from Cairo, near the tiny outpost of Olive Branch, Janice Bigham watched as her husband and volunteers desperately scram­bled to heighten the sandbag wall that made their ranch-style home an oasis — safe for now — from the at times swampy green floodwaters that already had swallowed up many nearby homes and out­buildings without such defens­es. 
“All we can do is hope and pray that they blow that levee,” said Bigham, 40. “That’s the only thing that might take the pressure off; otherwise, the water will be over the road and wipe out Olive Branch.” 
Bigham, warning sandbag­gers wading into the inunda­tion to watch out for “big­time” snakes, said the gray­and-white brick home needed to be saved, given that her late father helped build it. “That’s all I have left of him,” she said before turning away briefly from a reporter, her chin trem­bling as ears welled in her eyes. 

Bipartisan group of six senators tackles deficit 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — A bipartisan group of six senators is closing in on what could represent the best chance for tackling a deficit crisis that has forced the government to borrow more than 40 cents of every dollar it spends. 
Their plan, still a work in progress, would reduce borrow­ing by up to $4 trillion over the next decade by putting the two parties’ sacred cows on the chopping block. Republicans would have to agree to higher taxes while Democrats would have to accept cuts in popular benefit programs such as Medicare, Medicaid and maybe even Social Security. 
Most Republicans and some Democrats in Congress have said they will not vote to increase the government’s abili­ty to borrow without some action addressing the nation’s long-term debt. The govern­ment is expected to reach its borrowing limit of $14.3 trillion by mid-May. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner says steps are being taken to delay until July what would be an unprecedent­ed default on the debt. 
Geithner and a growing num­ber of business leaders say a 
U.S. default would plunge the U.S., and perhaps the world, into a second economic crisis. 
Despite opposition from top leaders in both parties, the Senate’s Gang of Six is banking on support from many of the 64 senators who wrote President Barack Obama in March urging him to support a comprehen­sive deficit reduction effort. 
“There’s a huge appetite for a starting point that’s bipartisan,” said Sen. Mark Warner, D-Va., one of the six senators, three from each party. “I think the conventional wisdom that says, ‘We can punt all of this until after the next presidential elec­tion.’ I think there’s a growing consensus we may not have that long.” 
The group includes four members of Obama’s deficit commission, and its recommen­dations are expected to closely track the commission’s plan for $3 in spending cuts for every $1 in tax revenue increases over the coming decade. 
Its other two Democrats are Sen. Dick Durbin of Illinois, the second-ranking Democratic leader, and Sen. Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the Budget Committee chairman. The Republicans are Sens. Tom Coburn of Oklahoma, Mike Crapo of Idaho and Saxby Chambliss of Georgia. 
The six have met in private for several months, even as House Republicans and Obama developed more partisan plans that have little chance of being enacted into law because of Washington’s divided govern­ment. 
“We’ve made enormous progress in that group. And I hope that we are able to announce an agreement soon,” Conrad said on “Fox News Sunday.” He added: “If we don’t, we’re simply not going to be relevant because this debate marches on.” 
House Republicans passed a nonbinding plan in April that calls for reducing annual deficits by a total of $6.2 trillion over the next decade. It includes no tax increases but calls for transforming Medicare from a program in which the government directly pays med­ical bills into a voucher-like sys­tem that subsidizes the pur­chase of private insurance plans. 
Obama has outlined a plan to reduce borrowing by $4 trillion over the next 12 years. His plan includes $1 trillion in tax increases and is less specific about how he would cut benefit programs. 
The senators’ work is rooted in a simple political reality: Getting anything actually passed into law given the pres­ent balance of power in Washington requires both Democrats and Republicans to embrace proposals that make each uncomfortable. An approach that leaves politically challenging topics off the table simply won’t make a dent in deficits averaging $1 trillion a year or so over the upcoming decade. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, May 2, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A wedding 
worth the 
wake-up call 
It’s 5:15 on Friday morning and I technically don’t have to be awake for another four hours. Instead, my alarm is telling me that it’s time to get out of bed. 
After only a few hours of sleep, I feel strangely excited and ener­getic — the royal wedding will be starting in just 45 minutes. 
The idea of wak­ing up so early 


Emily Schrank 
to watch the wedding of two 

News 
people that I 

Production 
have absolutely 

Editor 
no connection to probably seems crazy to many people, but this was a marriage that had been 10 years in the making. And I wasn’t about to miss it. 
At the risk of sounding cheesy or cliché, it really was a thrill to watch everything as it was unfolding. Although, I think it’s pretty safe to say I wasn’t alone in feeling that way; I was witnessing history being made. 
Seeing the highly anticipated wedding dress the moment it was first revealed and the glances the couple exchanged when they first saw each other at the altar was actually pretty cool. 
As I watched, my thoughts kept returning to the stunningly beautiful new princess and all that she must have been feeling. 
Kate Middleton was actually living what most girls can only dream of. She had found her Prince Charming and was a part of a real-life fairy tale. 
I’m sure when she met Prince William in college at the age of 19, she never imagined that this day would come. Now, this “commoner” from a small town in England was about to become royalty. 
When the two began dating, she was immediately thrust into the spotlight and has remained there ever since. Now an international icon of sorts, I think she will represent the royal fami­ly well. 
Appearing calm and poised, the new princess truly was someone to admire. All eyes were (and will most certainly continue to be) on her. I can’t even begin to imagine that kind of pressure, but she took it all in stride and carried herself with such elegance and grace. 
So, that being said, I guess I can for­give her for stealing the heart of the man who was once considered to be the world’s most eligible bachelor (he and I share the same birthday, so we were obviously meant to be). After all, she was just an ordinary girl who was met with the most unordinary of circum­stances. 
I think Kate Middleton’s story just goes to show that you never can tell what each day will bring and how it might impact or change your life forev­er. I’m not saying you’ll become a mem­ber of the royal family too, but just think about the potential that each new day has. It’s actually kind of amazing if you do. 
In the end, it was certainly a wedding worth watching — 5:15 wake-up call and all. 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 
‘... the human soul on fire’ 
It is truly a privilege when the people who inspire you are not historical figures in textbooks with whom you will never be able to speak. It is a privilege when the people whom you admire are not distant celebrities with whom you will never be able to sit down for a cup of coffee. It is a gen­uine privilege when the people who do and will make a sin­cere difference in their communities and in the world 

Alex Coccia 
are friends who have both lis-

Shard of Glass
tened to your thoughts and taught you so much regarding the issues about which they care so deeply. I am hon­ored, in my final column of the year, to be able to share my thanks for the inspiration that I have received from three incredible seniors. 
I met Mary Dewey, Julia Duranti and Bridget Flores through the Progressive Student Alliance (PSA), a coalition of stu­dents, faculty and staff whose primary objective is to foster a community in which every member is welcomed, respected and loved without reservation, and which pur­sues changes to communal norms that inhibit or prevent a culture of respect for the fundamental dignity of the human per­son. I joined the group in the fall to become active on campus in various human rights issues. I stayed because of the passion shared by its members — none more so than that of Mary, Julia and Bridget, who exemplify Ferdinand Foch’s saying, “The most powerful weapon on earth is the human soul on fire.” 
Mary is a Political Science and Chinese double major who lives in Hospitality House. Julia, another member of Hospitality House, is an Anthropology and Peace Studies double major. Bridget, a resi­dent of Peace House, created her own Latin American Culture and Development major with the help of the Kellogg Institute where she works. Hospitality and Peace are cer­tainly words I associate with these three, but they only brush the surface of the truly beautiful people these three are and how they work to make others. 
After graduation, Mary is attending the University of Denver College of Law, where she received a scholarship for the school for Public Interest Law. She plans to spe­cialize in law regarding immigration and human trafficking. There are currently not enough lawyers serving the civil legal needs of poor people, she tells me, and in a justice system where public lawyers are not guaranteed in civil cases, too many life-changing cases are being tried in courts where plaintiffs may not understand what is going on, or may have inadequate repre­sentation. Having worked at a legal aid clinic in Denver last summer, Mary found it very rewarding to be able to provide the help and consultation that is in short supply within the high demand of our justice sys­tem. 
Julia is joining the Jesuit Volunteer Corps (JVC) Northwest, where she will live in community with other volunteers and act as the anti-poverty specialist at El Programa Hispano in Gresham, Ore. The JVC emphasizes spiritual openness and depth, examining and acting on the causes of social and environmental injustice in order to promote peace and structural change. Julia will be bringing her experi­ence studying abroad in Chile and Bolivia and her work in the South Bend communi­ty this past year. Her senior year especially, she has been able to engage her major and other academic classes with real life situa­tions in the community. Some of the great­est things she has learned from her inter­national and local work have been how to talk to people, how to listen when people need to talk, and how to learn from the people with whom she interacts. Life is a service, she tells me — a belief that all three have taught me. 
Bridget will be working for a year in Austin, Texas, at an immigrant refugee shelter, where she will also hopefully shad­ow an immigration lawyer working there. Her passion is very much immigration, because, as she strongly feels, “a just immi­gration policy is needed for undocumented immigrants, so that people do not have to die trying to get to America and so that conditions are fair and humane for both Americans and immigrants.” Law school is one possibility for her after her time in Austin, with specialization in immigration law and other civil rights protections for members of the LGBT community and women. Bridget’s experience working with the Kellogg Institute on campus and devel­oping her Latin American Culture and Development major will be an important background for her as she follows her pas­sion. 
Mary, Julia and Bridget are each expres­sive of and thankful for the people they have met while at Notre Dame. Many Notre Dame students, they agree, create a “com­munity of people who actually utilize spiri­tuality to promote social justice” and who are constantly “looking outside them­selves.” Certainly, Mary, Julia and Bridget have found a home in this community and have contributed to the peace and hospital­ity within it. For Mary, Julia and Bridget, PSA has been a forum and group to devel­op leadership skills while running social action campaigns that make a lot of progress on campus. 
Much of this progress is behind the scenes, within meetings with members of the administration, academic departments, other clubs and student government. They are exemplary models of involvement in their campus community. PSA’s focus has been utilizing direct service and charity in order to address structural issues on cam­pus. Much of their efforts recently have been involved with the LGBT rights move­ment on campus. It is an issue that many do not want to address, it is an issue that requires structural and environmental changes on campus and it is an issue in which the changes do not come easily. However, Mary, Julia and Bridget have faced these challenges and for the past four years they have made it their goal to get the desired changes. They have been the on-campus leaders for the movement to include “sexual orientation” in the non-dis­crimination clause and to grant club status to a gay-straight alliance. While four years have passed and these changes have not yet been made, they have made an immeasurable difference in the lives of stu­dents, faculty and staff who identify as LGBT and allies. Their tireless commitment to PSA and all that PSA does is truly incred­ible. Their constant fight for what is right has inspired me and has won my uncondi­tional admiration. They truly embody the sentiment that all life is a service. 
Daniel Golston said, “If you’re going to be passionate about something, be passionate about learning. If you’re going to fight something, fight for those in need. If you’re going to question something, question authority. If you’re going to lose something, lose your inhibitions. If you’re going to gain something, gain respect and confidence. And if you’re going to hate something, hate the false idea that you are not capable of your dreams.” Daniel Golston said it; through living it, Mary, Julia, and Bridget have taught it to me. 
Alex Coccia is a freshman. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“‘Wrong’ is one of those conceptsthat depends on witnesses.” 
Scott Adams 
U.S. cartoonist 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“In the end, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.” 
Martin Luther King Jr.
U.S. civil rights activist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Monday, May 2, 2011 page 9 
A misguided ‘path to prosperity’ 
Recently, Congressman Paul Ryan, the 41-year-old Chairman of the House Budget Committee, revealed the Republican ver­sion of the 2012 budget for the federal government titled “The Path to Prosperity.”“The Path to Prosperity” Adam Newman cuts over $4 trillion from the national Scientia debt during the next potentia est decade by reforming government programs and simplifying the 
U.S tax code. While Mr. Ryan should be commended for his work, his budget con­tains misguided policies that are more geared towards creating a political firestorm than much needed compromise. 
“The Path to Prosperity” contains five major reforms. First, Medicare (the federal government’s health insurance program for the elderly) becomes privatized for those under 55 and faces tremendous cuts. Second, Medicaid (the joint federal-state government program that provides health insurance for the poor and some health insurance for the elderly) faces cuts and becomes a “block grant,” meaning states will have more flexibility in how they spend Medicaid funds. Third, the U.S tax code will have fewer tax brackets, lower tax rates and fewer tax loopholes. Fourth, the recently passed health care bill is repealed. Fifth, numerous cuts are made to discretionary programs like Pell Grants. 
As someone who spends (too much) time studying the federal budget, I have a deep admiration for Congressman Ryan’s knowledge of complicated budgetary issues and his political fearlessness for proposing reforms to entitlements. However, there are three main issues with his plan. 
First, Congressman Ryan cuts health care costs the wrong way. Medicaid pay­ment cuts will cause states to “decrease payments to Medicaid providers, reduce eligibility for Medicaid, provide less exten­sive coverage to beneficiaries or raise taxes” according to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO). The CBO also found that the cuts to Medicare would shift more of the cost of Medicare onto seniors. Under current projections, in 2022, seniors will pay for 30 percent of their health care costs. The CBO found that under Congressman Ryan’s plan in 2022 seniors would pay on average 60 percent of their health care costs, a $6400 increase. 
A better solution would be to make major investments in something called comparative effectiveness research, or CER. CER could be used to see which of many similar treatments is the most “cost­effective.” For instance, let’s say treatment “A” and “B” are both used to treat a com­mon disease. “A” may cost more than “B,” but it is likely that no evidence is available to prove that “A” is any more effective than “B.” CER may be able to show that “B” is just as effective as “A,” or the added benefit of “A” may not be worth its addi­tional cost. If this research is funded, the federal government could incentivize providers to practice the treatments that are the most “cost-effective.” This is a less painful way of decreasing health care costs that Congressman Ryan ignores. 
Second, too many of the sacrifices that “The Path to Prosperity” calls for fall on the disadvantaged. Deficit reduction should require cuts to every sector of the budget and require every American, poor and rich, young and old, to share in the sacrifice. Congressman Ryan’s plan does not embody this ideal. “The Path to Prosperity” makes virtually no cuts to defense spending (20 percent of the budg­et), but makes major cuts to non-defense discretionary spending (the 15 percent of the budget containing Pell Grants, the EPA’s budget, infrastructure funding, etc.) Moreover, while Congressman Ryan’s tax reform lowers rates for all Americans, the highest tax bracket will be reduced from 35 percent to 25 percent. While economic growth is a necessary solution to deficit reduction, this tax break for the rich is far too great, even if many loopholes are elim­inated. Many seniors and poor people would take major financial hits due to the cuts to Medicare, Medicaid and other serv­ices. Reducing taxes for the rich so greatly while drastically cutting services for the poor and elderly does not represent the “shared sacrifice” America needs. 
The third and most pressing issue with “The Path to Prosperity” is that Congressman Ryan makes no attempt at compromise. The combination of lowering taxes on the rich, drastically cutting servic­es and repealing the health care bill make it politically impossible for this budget to receive Democratic support. Instead of working to please the conservative base, Congressman Ryan should have written a more moderate budget that would have attracted the support of both Democrats and Republicans. 
President Obama recently proposed a deficit reduction plan of $4 trillion over the next decade, a number similar to what Congressman Ryan has proposed. While both men agree on the amount of deficit reduction, President Obama’s and Congressman Ryan’s plans achieve it in very different ways, meaning tough negoti­ations will occur in the coming weeks. If negotiations between these two fail, it will not be because of Paul Ryan’s ideas, but his unwillingness to compromise. It would be sad for so much political courage to go to waste. 
Adam Newman is a sophomore majoring in finance. He can be contacted at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

True Life: I Love Will and Kate 
I truly hope, for all of those reading this, that you are not yet sick of the Royal Wedding. Additional warning: This column may or may not contain elements of cheese. Proceed with caution. 
Why? Because as a Notre Dame student studying abroad in London, I participated in all the wedding madness this past Friday and I loved every minute of it. 
Molly Madden 

For those of you who may have read my contribution to The Observer’s International 
Guest 

Desk blog, you will have noted that my day 
Columnist 

began before 5:00 a.m. and involved sleeping 
next to a homeless man in St. James Park before standing along the processional route all day to witness the entire Bridal party make its way to and from Westminster Abbey. 
As much as it pains me to say it, I ended the day totally and madly in love with Kate and Will. This is saying a lot coming from someone who, if in Kate’s shoes, I would have run 50 miles in the opposite direction before ever agreeing to join the dysfunctional and highly scrutinized family that is now her in-laws. 
Why is it then that I, like so many other rational, democracy-loving individuals, got swept up into the Royal Wedding fever? 
Answer: At the end of the day, many of us are still suckers for, and please excuse the overused expression, a modern-day fairy­tale. 
Now you can criticize that statement all you want but the fact is a sensible, and maybe even a bit too-good-looking for her now-husband, woman willingly jumped into the media circus that has both annoyed and enthralled us to no end these past few months. I tend to subscribe to the belief that agreeing to have your wed­ding, one of your most personal and joyful days, broadcast world­wide to nearly two billion people who will analyze every detail, even the appearance of your sister’s derriere in her maid-of­honor dress, to be a sign of enduring devotion. 
And at the end of the day, after all the hoopla over the dress, the difficulty with the ring and the briefest of balcony kisses, it was still a wedding. A “royal” wedding, yes, but still a wedding where two people, who do seem genuinely in love, officially com­mitted themselves to each other — without a pre-nup I might add. 
With that being said, I no longer feel guilty for being a Royal lover. When I saw Kate drive past on her way to the Abbey, I felt a special affiliation to this young woman. Not because she was about to achieve every little girl’s dream of being a princess, but because I was so swept up in the moment and wanted nothing more than her future happiness with her real-life prince. 
And at a little after 11 a.m. on April 29, 2011, those all around me felt it too as the cheers of a million strong crowd went up in response to two words: “I will.” 
Molly Madden is a junior studying in London. She can be reached at mmadden3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
M.E.Ch.A. a force for unity 
First, I would like to thank Amanda Gray for providing M.E.Ch.A and Latina/os at Notre Dame with a positive portrayal of the work that we do (“Latinos maintain culture on campus,” April 20). I would also like to thank Jessica Lujan for her views in “A Different Way to be Latino” (April 27) — she is right, there are many different ways of expressing our identity. However, I would like to address sev­eral incorrect assumptions that she made about our club, “M.E.Ch.A.” Her Viewpoint article essential­ly denied the existence of a nationwide attack on the Latino population via discriminatory legislation and the anti-immigrant hysteria in our country. Allert Brown Gort argues that today Latinos are often associated with being immigrants, who are equated with being “illegal” and who are then demonized by a society that benefits from their disadvantaged status. I am glad that Miss Lujan was fortunate enough to never experience this type of discrimination, but the truth is that Latina/os are targeted and scapegoated everyday. 
M.E.Ch.A., an organization whose members espouse a Chicana/o identity that can be shared by any­one, fights for the empowerment of all people through education, activism and preservation of culture. We challenge ignorance by educating ourselves and the people around us. To say that our organiza­tion is exclusionary is contradictory to our message and goals. Perhaps because she has not been involved in M.E.Ch.A., Miss Lujan’s commentary on our organization was misinformed. Throughout the years we have been a vehicle for students to share and maintain their culture on campus. In fact, our efforts to educate and retain Latina/o culture have been recognized by Student Activities as we were recently awarded the Cultural Club of the Year award and Program of the Year for our Diversity Panel. In our chapter, as in most chapters, members include people from different ethnic and socio­economic backgrounds. We encourage all people who share our goals of social justice and equality to participate. At the same time, we are also aware and supportive of the fact that M.E.Ch.A. is not the only way Latina/o students maintain their culture on campus. We recognize that we have a very dissi­dent style of reaching our goals that may not appeal to some students and so there are other Latina/o clubs on campus that we are either members of or we work closely with in cooperative event plan­ning. 
While Notre Dame has provided much opportunity for growth and advancement for minority stu­dents, there is still ignorance about different lifestyles that often leads to insensitive remarks and offensive incidents. Again, I am happy that some Latina/o students have not experienced this, but these experiences are a reality for many minority students. 
Finally, we would like to say that in light of all the work that still needs to be done in support of unity, we encourage all Domers to participate in and become involved with the multicultural clubs here on campus. Our efforts are futile when only our members attend education nights, meetings and other events. 
M.E.Ch.A. de Notre Dame 
Luis Huerta 
sophomore Keough Hall 
Nicole Medina 
fifth-year senior off campus 
Amanda Meza 
junior Pangborn 
Marco Rosales 
senior off campus May 1 
The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Monday, May 2, 2011 

By MAIJA GUSTIN ative director of Alexander McQueen else watching, in person or on screen. Though Kate was undoubtedly the Scene Editor after the death of McQueen last year, Kate finished off her look with a star, eliciting cheers from the millions created a chic and elegant silhouette tiara borrowed from Queen Elizabeth thronging London to be a part of the 
In the days leading up to the Royal for the most famous bride in herself. Her make-up was light and wedding, Sarah Burton was clearly Wedding of the new Duke and recent history. She 
man-natural and the hero of the day, dressing Kate as Duchess of Cambridge, Prince William aged to combine some of she wore if she were already the queen. and Kate Middleton, rumors ran ram-McQueen’s edge with a her hair pant on who the bride would wear on classic look befitting the down in Contact Maija Gustin at her wedding day. Names such as Vera future Queen of England l o o s e mgustin@nd.edu Wang, Alexander McQueen and for a breathtaking dress waves. Monique Lhuillier 
were all that will surely Philippa dropped as inspire brides ( P i p p a ) the lucky for years to d e s i g n e r come. Middleton, to clothe Though the Kate’s sis-the future dress was ter and queen of stunning maid of England . from the honor, also Somehow, front, with wore a despite all its v-neck B u r t o n the press and deli -dress, one coverage of cate lace, that helped the high the back catapult her profile w a s to Twitter-event, the equally trendi ng secret was beautiful. status on the kept until Kate’s day of her Kate stepped t r a i n sister’s wed-out of her w a s ding. Though Rolls Royce nearly dressed in a t n i n e white, Pippa’s Westminster f e e t stunning, Abbey. l o n g form -fitting 


J a w s a n d dress failed to around the t h e detract from w o r l d back her sister. dropped as o f Rather, she Kate emerged t h e was simply in a stunning d r e s s stunning fol ­A l e x a n d e r featured handmade lowing her sister McQueen gown buttons. down the aisle. by Sarah Sarah Burton has Burton contributed a third gorgeous Burton. Clearly quickly escalated from dress to the day: Kate’s reception inspired by Grace arising (perhaps risen) fashion star to dress. Kate stayed in white, this time Kelly’s dress at her wedding to the a household name thanks to Kate’s with a form-fitting, sleeveless white Crown Prince of Monaco in 1956, the unforgettable look. Will’s look of gown with embroidered waistband. dress was both classic and elegant. shock and amazement at the altar She topped this off with an angora Sarah Burton, who took over as cre-neatly summed up the reactions of all white shrug. 

MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Monday, May 2, 2011 page 11 



By MARIA FERNANDEZ polka dot dress and 
celebrities and royals who were invited to Prince Scene Writer draped black turban 
William and Kate’s wedding showed poise and with coral flower 
charm with their perfectly adequate fashion selec-The most popu­
applications. She 
tions, others did not make the do list. lar and awaited 
proudly showed her 
Chelsy Davy’s aquamarine bias-cut satin blouse royal wedding of 
cultural roots with this 
and skirt, made specifically for the occasion by the century finally 
bold and fashionable 
Alberta Ferretti, were somewhat disappointing. She came Friday and 
outfit. 

paired her outfit with nude-colored pumps, clutch all eyes were on 
Princess Letizia of 
and hat, which did not help her overall look. I fashion. The 
Spain also chose to 
expected something British Royal 
wear Spanish-designer 
more stylish and Family demon-
pieces for the occa­
youthful from Prince strated once more 
sion. She looked sim­
Harry’s on-again, its exquisite ele­
ple, elegant and chic 
off-again girlfriend. gance and sophis­
in a monochromatic 
Although these sis­tication with its 
blush-colored pleated 
ters are popularly choices of attire 
dress and hat by 
known as British and the bride, 
Felipe Varela. 
fashionistas, now Catherine 
Recently married 
Princess Eugenie Duchess of 
Princess Victoria of 
and Princess Cambridge, and 
Sweden and Prince 
Beatrice of York her sister, Pippa, 
Albert of Monaco’s 
chose apparel for also looked both 
fiancé, Charlene 
their cousin’s wed-beautiful and 
Wittstock, also fol-ding which was also a breathtaking. lowed the mono-
miss. Eugenie, the However, the main chromati c 
younger of the two, characters of this royal 
fashion trend 
wore a Vivienne event of the year were not 
to perfection. 
Westwood multicol­the only ones dressed to 
Princess 
ored jacked and impress. Wearing mainly 
Victoria 
poufy taffeta skirt short hem ensembles with 
looked pol-
combined with a lots of color and extrava­
ished and 
flamboyant Philip gant hats, celebrity and 
modern with a 
Treacy hat. She went royal guests to the wed­
side-gathered, 
too over-the-top ding made good and not-so 
salmon -col ­
with her outfit and good fashion choices on 
ored Elie Saab 
did not exude the this big day. After carefully 
dress and 
effortless grace of looking at all of the wed-
matching 
a British royal. ding fashions, here are 
shoes and hat, 
Princess some of my picks on guest 
while 
Beatrice’s beige do’s and don’ts. 
Wi ttstock 
Valentino Haute demonstrated 
Couture dress 

she has what 
seemed less con-The majority of the wed­
Do’s 

it takes to look trived than her sis-ding guests chose very 
and become a ter’s, but it stylish outfits that were 
royal with a seamed 
is still not a perfect for the occasion. 
gray coat, gloves and 
fashion hit. They emanated elegance 
clutch. The soon-to-
The dress and poise and were avant-be princess completed 
was fairly garde in their selec­
her refined look with a 
appropriate tions. 
white wide-brimmed hat 
for the occa-David and Victoria 
and nude-colored heels. 
sion, but her Beckham’s ensembles 
Another fashion trend 
extravagant were certainly a do. 
seen in some guests at the 
Philip Treacy The handsome soccer 
wedding was metallics, and 
headp iece star looked great in 
Princess Marie Chantal of 
ruined the look. his Ralph Lauren suit 
Greece and Zara Phillips, 
Beatrice mixed an and Philip Treacy top 
Prince William’s cousin, 
elegant Valentino hat, while his wife’s 
wore it best. Chantal wore a 
piece with a wildly dark blue dress from 
Chanel Haute Couture gray-
shaped hat. This her new fall collection 
tweeted dress with silver 
combination hin­fitted perfectly with 
hand-beaded embroidery 
dered her overall her growing baby 
and an elaborate flower-
look. bump. Posh’s custom-
adorned hat by Philip 
Lastly, British made Christian 
Treacy. Zara Phillips chose 
socialite and TV Louboutin pumps and 
to wear a metallic silver 
presenter, Tara Philip Treacy head­
dress and fabulous hat for 
Palmer-Tomkison, piece completed her 
her cousin’s wedding. Both 
wore the most sophisticated look. 
royals nailed the metallic outrageous They were without trend with their stylish 
ensemble to the doubt one of the most ensembles, making great 
royal nuptials. Her stylish couples in Friday’s cere-and innova­
outfit is a perfect mony and festivities. 
tive fashion 

example of mono-Prime Minister David Cameron’s 
statements. 

chromatic gone wife, Samantha Cameron, radiat-
All of 

wrong. Her choice of ed simplicity and refinement at 
these guests 

a cobalt blue color the event. Her combination of 
prove that 

did not spoil her both a bright teal dress and an 
when it 

ensemble. It was the exuberant shape of her orange shawl and necklace were 
comes to 

Deborah Milner dress and Philip Treacy hat that a great choice that gave personal-
choosing 

did. Tara was certainly trying too hard. She was ity to her outfit. 
their outfits 

dressing to impress in all the wrong ways. Spanish-designed attires caused 
for a royal 

Good or bad, hit or miss, do or don’t, these a sensation at this worldwide-tel­
event they 

celebrity and royal guests enjoyed this most evised event. Miriam Gonzalez, 
are definite-

anticipated wedding of the year and definitely wife of English Deputy Prime 
ly en vogue. 

made fashion history with these ensembles. Minister Nick Clegg, looked sophisticatedly elegant in her 
Don’ts 

Miguel Palacio black-and-white Although many Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 














MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS May, 2, 2011 
MLB 

Indians continue surprising start, sweep Tigers 

Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — No matter the situation, the upstart Cleveland Indians can do no wrong this sea­son. 
Cleveland has baseball’s best record at 19-8 after Michael Brantley singled home the go-ahead run in a three-run eighth inning Sunday and the Indians beat the Detroit Tigers 5-4 for their 13th straight home said. “Winning breeds confidence and these kids right now are feel­ing pretty good.” 
Brantley followed a tying RBI single by Orlando Cabrera by lining an 0-1 pitch from Joaquin Benoit (0-2) to left, scoring Shelley Duncan from second base. 
Matt LaPorta added a sacrifice fly for his third RBI and a 5-3 lead as Cleveland extended its best home start in 70 years. The Indians are 13-2 at home for the first time 

win. “I don’t think anybody could see this com­ing,” closer  “Winning breedsconfidence and these kids right now are feeling pretty good.”  since 1941. They didn’t get their 13th home win a year ago until June 28.  
Chris Perez s a i d . “Everything is  Manny Acta Indians manager  “It’s amazing,” veteran infielder Adam Everett said.  
coming togeth­ “You can’t script  
er. The starting  out the way we’re  
pitchers  are  winning.  These  
keeping  us  in  guys never quit and  

there, the bullpen is doing the job. it’s really exciting.” Two outs, none on? The offense Chad Durbin (1-1) struck out the will do something. This is a lot of only batter he faced, Brandon Inge, fun.” to end the eighth. Perez yielded an 
Cleveland’s third consecutive vic-RBI single to Miguel Cabrera in the tory in its last at-bat and sixth ninth before earning his seventh straight overall pushed Detroit’s save. losing streak to six games. It also Next up, a six-game trip to the gave the Indians five series sweeps West Coast, starting Tuesday in this season, one more than all of Oakland. Acta believes the Indians 2010 when they went 69-93. can win there, too. 
“A super, fantastic homestand. “Expectations don’t change,” he Just terrific,” manager Manny Acta said. “You try to win every game. 
We’ll try to take some home cook­ing on the road.” 
Detroit let leads slip away in all three games in Cleveland and will open a four-game set at home Monday against the New York Yankees. 
“We’re not doing enough things to win games,” manager Jim Leyland said. “We’re either getting behind and not catching up or get­ting ahead and not holding them off.” 
Benoit twice failed to stop the surging Indians. After serving up a game-ending grand slam to Carlos Santana on Friday night, he yield­ed a single to Shin-Soo Choo to start the eighth and plunked Duncan in the hand with one out Sunday. Orlando Cabrera then sin­gled off the glove of a diving Inge at third to score Choo for a 3-all tie. 
“I’m struggling,” Benoit said. “Nothing is going right for me now.” 
Alex Avila’s bases-loaded sacri­fice fly in the top of the eighth gave Detroit a 3-2 lead. 
Indians starter Justin Masterson yielded a leadoff single to Don Kelly and hit Miguel Cabrera in the left leg with a pitch to open the eighth. Cabrera glared at the mound, ges­tured at Masterson and walked slowly to first. Earlier in the game, both benches had been warned after Masterson and Tigers starter Phil Coke plunked batters. 
“Under no circumstances was Masterson trying to do that,” Acta said. “We respect Miggy. My guys are not afraid of him, but I am. He’s the most scary guy in the league.” 
Rafael Perez struck out Brennan Boesch, but Ryan Raburn singled to load the bases and Avila lofted his third sacrifice fly of the series. 
LaPorta’s two-run double in the second tied the score against Coke. 
Kelly had an RBI double in the first, when the Tigers added a run on a passed ball by Santana. 
Masterson avoided big trouble in the second. Detroit loaded the bases with one out on a bloop sin­gle, walk and bunt single. Masterson got Ramon Santiago to ground into an around-the-horn double play started by Everett. 
“He dialed it up after that,” Acta said. “He gave us 120 pitches and gave us a chance to win.” 
NHL 

Red Wings falter again on the road against Sharks 
But that made no difference Niemi kept coming up with Eager dropped his gloves and Marleau at the end of a power 
Associated Press 

against a determined Sharks the big saves. His best was given a 10-minute mis-play. Even when a puck man-
DETROIT — Defensemen team that has won 10 of 12 moment came when he conduct penalty. aged to slip by Howard, the Ian White and Niclas Wallin games against Detroit. stopped Nicklas Lidstrom Niemi stopped a short-hand-Sharks couldn’t score as for-scored their first goals of the Jimmy Howard was again from the point and then ed breakaway by Darren ward Pavel Datsyuk cleared a postseason and Antti Niemi strong in goal for the Red Danny Cleary and Henrik Helm early in the period and loose puck from the goal line made 33 saves to help the San Wings, making 35 saves, but Zetterberg on rebounds mid-made two nice stops against after a great effort by Douglas Jose Sharks take a 2-0 lead in he got little help from his way through the third. Zetterberg on a Detroit power Murray almost led to a goal. their Western Conference teammates. The Red Wings The Red Wings finally broke play shortly after that. Niemi Howard made five more semifinal series over the hope to change their fortunes through with a power-play also had a tough stop on saves during a flurry in the Detroit Red Wings with a 2-1 when the series shifts to goal by Zetterberg with 6:02 Zetterberg in the final opening minute of the third, victory Sunday. Detroit for Games 3 and 4 remaining. They couldn’t get minute, playing more like the stopping Marleau on an odd-
White scored on a power starting Wednesday night. the equalizer, with the best goalie who helped Chicago man rush and Boyle on a play in the first period and The Sharks controlled play chance coming when win the Stanley Cup last sea-rebound attempt. Wallin extended the lead in the second period and took Lidstrom hit the post late in son than the one who got The sellout crowd was loud early in the third period as control of the scoreboard with the period. pulled twice in the first round from the start and got more the Sharks put together two the rare goal from Wallin Both goalies came up big in against Los Angeles this year. frenzied when the Sharks 
of their best back-to -back early in the third. He skated a second period that featured Howard was even better in broke out to a rare early lead games to jump on top of the into the offensive zone and plenty of hard hits, scoring the second and needed to be this postseason when White Red Wings for the second fired a shot that hit off chances and animosity that as the Sharks controlled the beat Howard with a blast straight year. Howard’s shoulder and hel-boiled over when San Jose’s play for much of the period, through a screen on a power 
While Detroit could blame a met, popped in the air and Ben Eager and Detroit’s Todd winning two thirds of the play with Justin Abdelkader lack of rest for falling into a fell into the net for a 2-0 lead. Bertuzzi fell into the Red faceoffs and outshooting in the box for high-sticking. 3-0 hole to San Jose a year Detroit’s frustration quickly Wings bench during a scrum. Detroit 19-9. That was San Jose’s first ago following a seven-game materialized as Tomas The two nearly went at it Howard robbed Devin goal in the first period since first-round series, the Red Holmstrom took a roughing again after serving coinciden-Setoguchi and Dan Boyle mid-Dany Heatley scored on the Wings were well-rested this penalty on Jason Demers to tal roughing penalties, but way through the period and opening shift of the first year after sweeping Phoenix. negate a power play, and Bertuzzi didn’t respond when made a diving stop on Patrick round against Los Angeles. 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
“30 Rock” Quotes:  
FOR RENT  $200 CREDIT: Future ARCHI- House for rent.  NOTICES  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  Liz: [about Kenneth] Well, it was  
TECTS, ENGINEERS, TEACH- nice of you to let him keep his job.  
ERS, LAWYERS, BARDS, AMERI­ Faculty-grad students near ND.  Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has  
CAN IDOLS and other studious  many resources in place to assist  Jack: The Italians have a saying,  
3 bedroom close to SMC/ND.  Bohemians, write your next solilo­ 2BR 2.5BA, living room, dining  If you or someone you care about  you.  Lemon. "Keep your friends close  
quy at one of our homes.  room, fam room, FL room.  has been sexually assaulted, we  and your enemies closer." And  
Hardwood floors, laundry, bright  can help.  although they've never won a war  
and spacious. No pets.  Security system. 2 car garage.  If you or someone you love needs  or mass-produced a decent car, in  
Check out: www.IrishDwellings.com  Fenced yard. Colfax &amp;  confidential support or assistance,  this area they are correct. In five  
Available mid June.  to find your home for summer  Twyckenham.  For more information, visit Notre  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819.  years we'll all either be working for  
and/or fall semester 2011-2012 and  Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu  For more information, visit ND's  him... [Kenneth happily bikes away]  
269-429-6346  beyond.  Call 262-332-0015  website at: http://pregnancysup­ or be dead by his hand.  
port@nd.edu  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————­ ———————————————­ 

Monday, May 2, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
MLB 

Athletics take down Rangers; Ethier extends streak 
from there. Two batters later, Texas committed three Jackson continued his recent helped lead Colorado to a pen-
Associated Press 

Crisp scored on Conor errors that led to a pair of tear. Jackson is hitting .360 nant in 2007 with 29 homers, 
OAKLAND, Calif. — Even Jackson’s two-run double down unearned runs for Oakland. with four extra-base hits and 116 RBIs and a .291 average, after left-hander Matt Harrison the right-field line, then Kurt That gave the Rangers 25 seven RBIs over his last seven has no homers and just four struggled for a third straight Suzuki singled through a errors this season, tied with games. RBIs in 71 at-bats with the start, Texas Rangers manager drawn-in infield to give the A’s the A’s for most in the AL. Harrison’s quick exit marked Padres after signing a one-Ron Washington has no plans a 3-0 lead. Those miscues helped the third straight game in year, $3 million contract in to alter his rotation. Crisp, back hitting leadoff in Oakland break out of an offen-which he’s struggled after January as a free agent. 
After watching his team’s Oakland’s lineup after missing sive slump and score more opening the season with con-An All-Star in 2009, Hawpe shaky defense fall apart again, three games with a sore left than six runs for only the secutive wins over the Red Sox, has a .352 lifetime average Washington has bigger issues quadriceps, made it 4-0 with a fourth time this season. Orioles and Yankees. His ERA against the Dodgers and a .362 on his plate. two-out RBI single in the sec-Jackson had two hits and two has spiked from 1.23 to 4.59 mark at Chavez Ravine — the 
Harrison gave up four runs ond. RBIs, Crisp added two hits in since then, and his loss to the second-highest ever by a visit-in 1 2-3 innings and Texas Harrison, who lasted just his return to the lineup and A’s was his first in four career ing player with at least 120 at­couldn’t get much going three innings in his previous Suzuki had two RBIs to help starts against Oakland. bats here behind Roberto against Oakland starter Gio start against Toronto, was the A’s, who also got a solid “I’ve got to keep that confi-Clemente’s .377 mark. Gonzalez and four relievers, gone two batters later after outing from Gonzalez. dence level up to forget about “I don’t know why. I’ve just losing to the Athletics 7-2 on Daric Barton doubled and Gonzalez (3-2) scattered five what happened and know that always enjoyed playing here,” Sunday. Jackson walked to load the hits with seven strikeouts over I have good enough stuff,” Hawpe said. “I just like this 
“Matt Harrison threw us bases. 6 2-3 innings to win for the Harrison said. ballpark. Obviously, I may like three pretty good ballgames “I’ve just got to be more first time since April 9. The The A’s added two runs off it here because I’ve had suc­(and) had two bad ones,” focused when I get on the left-hander didn’t give up a hit Dave Bush in the third after cess. The last two series I’ve Washington said. “He’ll get the field,” said Harrison, who until the fourth and allowed Suzuki reached on a throwing felt really good at the plate, ball next time. I don’t think walked two with one strikeout. only three runners past second error by shortstop Elvis Andrus even when I didn’t get hits. It’s there’s anyone in this club-“I have to keep things simple, base. to open the inning. Hideki just a matter of grinding it out house that feels more bad not try to think about too much Gonzalez snapped a three-Matsui followed with a run-and turning it around.” about not going out there giv-or what’s happened these past start skid by holding down the scoring double, then scored on Ethier kept his streak alive ing their team a chance than two starts. When I came into Rangers a day after Texas Cliff Pennington’s two-out sin-when he led off the seventh Matt Harrison. I’m not disap-spring training, I trusted my tagged Oakland ace Brett gle to center. with a single up the first base pointed in Harrison, he just stuff. I don’t think I’m trusting Anderson for seven runs and Typical of Texas’ day, first line and off the glove of Hawpe didn’t get it done.” my stuff right this second.” nine hits in five innings. baseman Mike Napoli tumbled as he tried to backhand it 
Coco Crisp doubled on The Rangers shouldn’t be too “My last two outings were a hard into the Rangers’ dugout behind the bag. It is the sec­Harrison’s second pitch and trusting of their defense, for little off-balance, kind of like while chasing Jackson’s foul ond-longest streak by a Dodger things went downhill quickly that matter. rushing and doing more than I ball in the seventh but was since the club relocated to Los 
should have been doing in the unable to make the catch. He Angeles in 1958, and is five shy beginning,” Gonzalez said. stayed on the ground for a few of Willie Davis’ franchise­“Today I tried to stay back and moments but remained in the record 31-game run in 1969. work on attacking the strike game. “I was just trying to figure zone and working on the Suzuki singled in Willingham out a way to get the job done glove.” two batters later to make it 7-and get on base — a walk, 
Michael Young and Ian 2. error, hit anything that gives us Kinsler drove in runs for a chance to start scoring runs, Texas, but it wasn’t enough Padres 7, Dodgers 0 especially in a ballgame like against Gonzalez. The Dodgers managed only that where not much offense is 
It was Oakland’s offense — three hits off San Diego’s being shown,” Ethier said. and Texas’ shoddy defense — Dustin Moseley during his Moseley (1-3) walked three that made the biggest differ-seven innings of work. and struck out six, allowing ence. Fortunately for Andre Ethier, just two runners as far as sec-
Crisp provided a spark after he had one of them to keep his ond base. The right-hander sitting out three games with a hitting streak going at 27 was winless in five April starts sore left quadriceps while games. despite a 1.99 ERA, with his 
Moseley got his first victory teammates getting shut out in of 2011, and the Padres beat each of his first three outings Los Angeles on Sunday to win and totaling just four runs for their first series since taking him altogether — including a two of three at St. Louis to pair of no-decisions that went open their schedule. extra innings. 
Jon Garland (1-2) gave up “I’ve been telling people and three runs in five innings. He telling these guys all along that struck out eight and walked it’s going to happen. It was just four — one more than his com-a matter of time. But I’m glad bined total in 20 innings over it happened today,” Moseley his three previous starts this said after the Padres put season. The right-hander spent together consecutive victories last season with the Padres, for the first time since the first going 14-12 with a 3.47 ERA in two games of the season. 33 starts. Ethier had 40 hits in April, 
“Jon’s a guy who always tying the franchise record for seems to find a way to keep that month, which he shared himself in the game, and he’s with Mike Piazza and Rafael always been that kind of guy,” Furcal. The All-Star right field-manager Don Mattingly said. er is trying to become the “If he’s struggling with some-eighth player since the turn of thing, he’ll just basically the century with a hitting almost invent stuff and change streak of at least 30 games what he’s doing.” during one season. That list 
Garland’s first walk was to includes Jimmy Rollins, Chase Nick Hundley leading off the Utley, Luis Castillo, Albert Padres’ three-run second. Pujols, Willy Taveras, Moises Former Dodger Orlando Alou and Ryan Zimmerman. Hudson followed with a single, The Dodgers are scheduled Cameron Maybin drove in to face Cubs starters James Hundley with another single Russell, Ryan Dempster and and Brad Hawpe capped the Carlos Zambrano in a series rally with a two-run single that that begins Monday night at doubled his RBI total for the Chavez Ravine. Ethier is 0 for 1 season. lifetime against Russell, 7 for 
“What killed me in that 19 with a home run against inning was the leadoff walk,” Dempster, and 7 for 16 against Garland said. “That gives them Zambrano. the opportunity to put that hit-Hawpe’s clutch hit was the and-run on. Then they were last by the Padres until the able to kind of bloop a couple ninth, when they broke it open more hits in there that ended with an RBI single by pinch-up scoring a couple more. They hitter Jorge Cantu, a sacrifice really didn’t hit the ball hard fly by Jason Bartlett and a two-that inning at all.” run double by Chase Headley 
Six of Hawpe’s 12 hits this against Mike MacDougal. All season have come against the four runs were charged to Dodgers in 17 at-bats. He is 6 Hong-Chih Kuo, who was acti­for 54 against everyone else. vated from the disabled list The seven-year veteran, who before the game. 



page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, May 2, 2011 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles drop conference title match to Albion 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
A successful season came to a close for No. 5 Saint Mary’s after a semifinal loss to No. 1 Albion, ending its run at an MIAA championship. 
The Belles’ (13-8, 5-3 MIAA) weekend began with a quarter­final matchup against No. 4 Calvin. In their regular season meeting, Saint Mary’s outlasted the Knights (10-11, 5-3) for a 5­4 victory. The Belles were forced to play strong tennis throughout the contest, from two early doubles wins to the late 6-2, 7-5 win by senior Mary Therese Lee that decided the match. 
Friday’s match was much of the same, as strong doubles play set the Belles up for anoth­er 5-4 triumph. This time the early boost was provided by an 8-3 win from the No. 3 doubles team of Lee and senior captain Franca Peluso. The pair went undefeated in tournament play and has been one of Saint Mary’s best pairings all year. 
“[Peluso and Lee] have great chemistry and they really enjoy playing together,” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. “Franca got hurt early in the year, but since then they’ve only kept improv­ing.” 
The Belles received late hero­ics in this meeting as well, this time from senior Kate Grabarek at No. 5 singles. Grabarek, with the season on the line, rallied from a one set deficit to win 1-6, 7-6 (7-5), 6-2. Even when her opponent stood two points from defeating both her and the team, the senior maintained her composure and continued to play her game. 
“I was really proud of Kate,” 
Bookstore 
continued from page 20 
was joined by Tiz Shadley, Christine Hamma, Blood and Erin McDonnell on Gatsby. 
Forr led the Onesies to a 21­10 victory over the Monstarz in the semifinal matchup Saturday, a matchup of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s ath­letes. Forr and varsity volley­ball player Marie Roof joined forces with fellow Notre Dame students Caitlin Hutchison, Laura Philipp, and Kaitlin Robinson to form Number Onesie. Jessica Centa, Kayla Wolter and Katherine Wabler, members of the Saint Mary’s varsity basketball team, rep­resented the Belles along with freshmen Malea Schulte and Campbell said. “That was a huge match for us. Her oppo­nent didn’t make a mistake in that first set, but she started to play better and she really came up big.” 
After that victory over Calvin, only top-seeded Albion (14-2, 8­
0) stood between Saint Mary’s and the finals. However, the Belles’ hopes faded as the Britons quickly took a 2-1 lead in doubles and swept the top three spots in singles for a 5-2 victory. 
While the result was decisive, Campbell believes the match was much closer than the score indicated. 
“We were very close. It was much tighter than 5-2,” he said. “We were about to win the other two matches out there, so it was more like 5-4. You find yourself thinking, ‘we just need­ed one more’.” 
Despite the season ending too early for their liking, the 2011 campaign was the best the Belles have had under Campbell and marks another step in the right direction for a team that has improved its record for the past three years. Campbell believes the future for Saint Mary’s is bright and sees many positives from the successful year. 
“We’re disappointed, but we’re glad we made it to the semifinals and [went] up against the best,” he said. “I do feel that we’re learning more every sea­son, and this one was the best so far. We had a great group of seniors this year, and it was good to send them out on a posi­tive. We’re trying to improve as a program, and we feel like we’re definitely on an upswing.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
Anamaria Weikert. 
Forr was dominant in the final minutes of the first half, accounting for three of the last five baskets that sent Number Onesie to halftime with an 11-4 lead. 
Gatsby defeated the Dominate -Tricks 21-19 Saturday in the other semifi­nal matchup. Lynch sunk the game-winning free throw to give her team the victory. 
Dominate Tricks consisted of Sarah McNellie, Maggie Ronan, Kelley Murphy, Katie Sullivan and Katherine Ferguson. Ronan, Murphy, and Sullivan are all members of the Saint Mary’s varsity basketball team. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu and Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
PGA 

Watson takes Zurich Classic 
Associated Press 

AVONDALE, La. — Bubba Watson has been working on becoming a better man. 
He figures he’s probably a better player because of it. 
Earlier in his career, a double bogey in the middle of a hotly contested final round might have knocked the combustible Watson off his game. 
Not anymore. 

Watson overcame a three-stroke deficit over the final eight holes of regulation and beat Webb Simpson in a playoff Sunday in the Zurich Classic of New Orleans for his second PGA Tour victory of the year and third of his career. 
“My wife, my caddie and my trainer would say my attitude’s in the right spot,” Watson said. “This week, I won (by) not get­ting down on bad shots, just staying focused on what I’m supposed to be doing.” 
He also had a little luck. 

It came in the form of a bad break for Simpson, who remained winless on the PGA Tour and was left to wonder what might have been if not for an unusual one-stroke penalty on 15 when his ball moved as he was addressing it on the green, less than a foot from the hole. 
“I better limit my comments on that rule, because I think it’s such a bad rule,” said Simpson, who seemed to think windy con­ditions, combined with relative­ly dry, hard greens, caused the ball to move. “When the wind or other natural things affect the golf ball, the player shouldn’t be penalized. ... It was just unfor­tunate, but Bubba deserves a win, and I’m pretty happy for him.” 
Watson, also the winner at Torrey Pines in late January, matched Simpson with a 3­under 69 to finish at 15-under 273 at TPC Louisiana. Both players birdied the 18th on the first extra hole, with Watson making a 12-foot putt to force the second playoff. 
Watson opened the final play­off hole with a 329-yard drive that narrowly stayed out of the water and landed in a fairway bunker. He hit his second shot 
— a 7-iron — 210 yards to the green on the 568-yard, par-5 18th. 
Simpson’s second shot landed in a bunker short of the green, near the lip, and he blasted out to 12 feet. 
After Simpson narrowly missed his birdie putt, Watson made a 3-foot birdie putt for the victory, which earned him $1,152,000 and moved him up from No. 16 to No. 10 in the world. 
K.J. Choi, the 2002 winner in New Orleans, shot a 69 to tie for third at 13 under with Jason Dufner (66) and Tommy Gainey (69). Choi was 14 under after 16 holes, but three-putted for a bogey on the par-3 17th and narrowly missed a birdie putt on 18. 
After Watson made his tour­nament-clinching putt, he hugged his mother, Molly, and wife Angie. 
In Watson’s estimation, both deserved credit for his latest victory. 
His mother, who did not attend his previous two wins, asked him to play in the subur­ban New Orleans tournament so she could drive from her Pensacola, Fla., area home to watch him. 
“I want to ask mom where else I should play,” said Watson, who had or shared the lead at the end of every round at Pete Dye-designed TPC Louisiana. “Hopefully, it means a lot to her that she got to sweat and cry and do everything that I did and all my emotions that went through 18 holes and the two extra holes.” 
His wife, meanwhile, has been telling him for a while to work on his composure on the course. 
“She told me that I’m playing golf for a living, it’s a dream come true and ... I’ve got to act differently,” Watson said. “If I’m going to support kids and do charity work, (getting angry on the course) is not a good exam­ple.” 
The best proof of the 32-year­old Watson’s maturity came when he got into trouble on the par-3 ninth. 
With the wind gusting and the crowd across the water erupt­ing after Brendon De Jonge holed out from a bunker on 18, Watson backed away from his initial stance. 
After stepping back up to his ball, the left-handed Watson attempted a draw that was meant to rise up over the water to the left and curl back into a crosswind toward the front of the green, where the pin was placed. The ball died just a few crucial feet short, plunking the distinctive cypress planks imbedded in the bulkhead along the left side of the green and ricocheting into the water. 
Watson then took his third shot from the front of the tee box and wound up with a dou­ble bogey, while Simpson made par for a two-shot lead. 



Monday, May 2, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN’S ROWING 

Notre Dame wins Big East 

By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
Granted varsity status in the fall of 1997, Notre Dame has quickly established itself as a top program. The Irish further cemented their standing as the Big East’s top team Sunday, winning their eighth consecu­tive conference title, a feat no current Big East team in any sport can match. 
Irish coach Martin Stone took over the program in its first year and has since built a nationally recognized program. However, he said the culture of the university and the athletes it attracts contributes much more to Notre Dame’s success than the efforts of the coaches. 
“Notre Dame is such a great school,” Stone said. “Just the caliber of the university and its commitment to athletics imme­diately put us ahead [of other Big East universities]. Also, the individual athletes that come to Notre Dame and their daily dedication matters a lot. Their performance, much more than that of the coaching staff, deter­mines our success.” 
Held on Mercer Lake in West Windsor, N.J., the championship was a tight competition between the first-place Irish and second-place Louisville. The Cardinals’ varsity eight boat claimed the Big East crown with a time of 6:40.00, beating Notre Dame by 2.8 sec­onds. However, the Irish won the varsity four and the first and second varsity eight races. 
Coxed by freshman Christa Dines and rounded out by jun­ior Ching Ting Hwang and freshmen Kiersten Dehaven, Courtney Gaberino and Teresa Rubinger, the varsity four crew beat first seed Louisville by nearly eight seconds. Stone said many members of his team turned in good performances. 
“There was some tight racing out there today,” he said. “Everybody contributed — a lot of people stepped up.” 
Finishing first in three of the five scoring events, the Irish earned 114 points, besting Louisville’s 109. Georgetown, the only other school to win a scoring event, finished third with 95 points. The Hoyas took the second varsity four race. 
Several Notre Dame rowers also took home individual awards. Seniors Carol Ann Michel and Stephanie Gretsch and freshman Molly Bruggeman were named to the all-Big East first team. Seniors Emily Crosby and Genevieve Malone and sophomore Stephanie O’Neill made the second team. 
Stone said his rowers appreci­ate the individual recognition, but focus more on team suc­cess. 
“I would think they enjoy the award,” he said. “The team accomplishments are much more important to our team, though. We don’t revel as much in individual achievements.” 
The all-Big East selections allow the winning program no more than six spots on the two teams. Stone said he believes his squad features many all-Big East performers that could not be named to either team. 
“We have a lot of kids who put in the effort and could be on the first team,” he said. “There are a bunch of kids who are all-Big East in my mind.” 
Notre Dame hopes to earn its first NCAA berth since 2007 when it finished 12th. The Irish race once more against Clemson and Virginia May 15 before the NCAA selection com­mittee chooses the field. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S RUGBY 

Season ends with championship loss 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Maybe the glass slipper does not fit. 
In its inaugural season as a club sport, Notre Dame fell short of a title, losing to Radcliffe 22­10 in the championship game Sunday afternoon in Pittsburgh, Penn. 
“We had an amazing season,” sophomore Veronica Ryan said. “This being our first season, most of the girls hadn’t touched a rugby ball. It’s amazing that we could perform at such a high level.” 
In the loss, sophomore Ashley Okonta and senior Kayla Bishop scored tries for the Irish. 
“They were just a more expe­rienced team and had been com­peting at that level for a while,” Ryan said. “We gave it our all, we played a great game, but we’re still really inexperienced.” 
Radcliffe entered the game 8­1, including a 32-14 win in the semifinals over overall No. 1 seed Western Washington. In the national tournament, Radcliffe knocked out the Midwest No. 1 seed Wisconsin-La Crosse, the Northeast No. 1 seed Norwich 
and  the  Pacific  No.  1  seed  
Western Washington.  
Radcliffe’s  defense  was  

impressive as well, yielding an average of just seven points per game since the beginning of the tournament. Notre Dame’s defense in its semifinals win was just as stellar, allowing a mere 10 points to Stonehill in a 22-10 triumph. 
“We played really good defense,” Ryan said. “We weren’t allowing them to come through the middle.” 
Okonta scored three times in the win, while senior Kathleen Stanley chipped in a try of her own. 
“I think we have a very good chance of doing this again, maybe even farther,” Ryan said. “We just need to start strong in the fall.” 
Notre Dame finishes its first spring season 6-2, including a 112-0 win over Ball State earlier this year. The Irish collected three wins in the national tour­nament, defeating perennial powers Shippensburg and Stonehill in the process. 
The Irish will return for their second season in the fall of 2011 as the program looks to secure its first championship. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish split squad for Drake, Gina Relays 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
Splitting up into two sepa­rate locations, the Irish com­peted in two relays for their final weekend of competition before championship play begins. A small selection of athletes traveled to Des Moines, Iowa, for the Drake Relays, while a larger group went to Hillsdale, Mich., for the Gina Relays. 
“For individual events the weekend definitely had its ups and downs, but overall it was an awesome prep for [the Big East tournament] next weekend,” sophomore pole vaulter Chrissy Finkel said. 
The highlight of the Drake Relays came with the men’s 1,600-meter relay, which consisted of juniors Jordan Carlson and Johnathan Shawel and sophomores J.P. Malette and Jeremy Rae. The men finished in second place at 16:38.99. 
“Some of our runners had great splits in their relays, and I think everyone’s feel­ing more confident,” Finkel said. “Placing at the Drake Relays is really exciting.” 
The men’s 3,200-meter relay team also had success­ful results, coming in third with a time of 7:25.75. The men also sent their 400 ­meter relay team of senior Edward Hitchler, sophomore Brendan Dougherty and freshmen Jarrod Buchanon and Patrick Feeney, which took 10th place at 3:13.52. Senior shot-putter Denes Veres, the final member of the men’s team at the Drake Relays, who took 10th place with a throw of 16.74 meters. 
The women sent five indi­vidual athletes for four events. Seniors Kelly Langhans and Abby Higgins both competed in the 800­meter run, finishing ninth and 14th at 2:14.78 and 
2:16.43, respectively. Sophomore Nevada Sorenson took tenth in the 100-meter hurdles at 13.97, while pole-vaulter Finkel took 16th with a throw of 3.70 meters. Senior shot-putter Rudy Atang finished 20th with her throw of 13.80 meters. 
The Irish sent a much wider field to the Hillsdale Relays, where they had 16 top-five finishes, three of which were first-place. 
Forerunners included first-place finishers Megan Yanik in the 400-meter hurdles at 1:00.41, sophomore Rebecca Tracy in the 800-meter run at 2:09.70 and senior Mat Abernethy in the 5,000­meter run at 14:51.93. 
Other strong performances came in the women’s 1,500­meter run, where two fresh­men put the Irish in two of the top five slots. Kelly Curran took second in 4:25.52, followed two sec­onds later by Alexa Aragon in fifth, crossing the line at 4:27.73. 
In the next race, the 5,000-meter run, junior Susanna Sullivan came in second at 16:56.43, trailed less than four seconds later by sophomore Rachel Verde in third at 17:00.03. The final top-five finish in the women’s side came with Kelly Burke’s 3.70 meter pole vault finish, as she notched a fifth place for the Irish in the event. 
The men dominated the hammer throw, where sen­iors John Belcher and Greg Davis took second and third with distances of 56.75 meters and 54.80 meters, respectively. Similar results came in the shot-putt, as Belcher came in third with a throw of 16.26 meters and junior Andy Hills took fourth with a throw of 16.11 meters. Freshman Peter Kristiansen claimed the final top-five finish for the field events, taking second in the javelin throw at 53.82 meters. 
The Irish next compete in the Big East championships beginning May 6 in Villanova, Penn. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 





page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, May 2, 2011 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish claim Big East championship on home court 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
For the fourth consecutive year, the No. 23 Irish captured the Big East title, coming out on top over Georgetown, Marquette and No. 42 South Florida over the course of the tournament this weekend. The Irish (16-9) wrapped up the tournament Sunday, beating South Florida 4-2 after losing 5-2 to the Bulls earlier in the regular season. 
“We all wanted revenge on South Florida today and we got it,” Irish junior Kristy Frilling said. 
Junior Shannon Mathews, nationally ranked 58th, was named Most Outstanding Player of the tournament, clinching each of the three matches with a sin­gles win at the No. 2 position. Mathews’ efforts, combined with stellar doubles performances from the No. 2 and No. 3 teams propelled the Irish to the title. 
“We went into the weekend excited to play at home and in front of our family and friends,” Mathews said. “We took it one match at a time because we knew we were going to have some tough matches against Georgetown and Marquette.” 
In doubles competition, the Irish never had to fully utilize their No. 1 junior pair, Frilling and Mathews. The No. 3 fresh­men duo Jennifer Kellner and Julie Sabacinski went 3-0 through the tournament, con­cluding with an 8-3 win over South Florida’s Alessandra Bonte and Kate Parker. On the No. 2 court, sophomore Chrissie McGaffigan and senior Kristen Rafael matched the freshmen’s perfect record, clinching the dou­bles point in each match. They took down South Florida’s Irene Rehberger and Ecaterina Vasenina in the finals. 
“It was really important for us to win the doubles point each day and that gave us a huge momen­tum boost for the singles play,” Mathews said. 
While singles competition never let the Irish down, it was not as constant through the tournament as doubles. 
The top-seeded Irish began their run to the title Friday against eighth-seeded Georgetown. After securing the doubles point, Sabacinski kicked off singles play on the No. 6 court, taking down Georgetown’s Alexandra Landers 6-1, 6-1. 

SMC GOLF 

Belles clinch berth in national championships 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
For the third consecutive year, the Belles have powered their way to an appearance in the NCAA Division III champi­onships due in large part to a resilient, all -around team effort this past weekend. 
Saint Mary’s once again came from behind Saturday to pull off a stunning victory over conference rival Olivet at the Belles’ home course, Blackthorn Golf Club. The Belles turned in a team score 
of 970 in the tournament, beating out second place Olivet’s score of 994. 
“Olivet is our biggest rival in our conference, and they’ve been playing really well in the last couple tourna­ments we’ve played in,” sen­ior Mary Kate Boyce said. “A win because of that makes it a lot more exciting.” 
Belles freshmen Marin Beagley and Doyle O’Brien stepped up in the clutch and remained focus against chal­lenging competition. Beagley’s 78 and O’Brien’s 79 — both career-bests — led the Belles to a dominant third round vic­tory, 315-342 over Olivet. 
“They’re freshmen playing under pressure, and that’s tough, but Doyle and Marin did a good job of that,” Boyce said. “Marin’s been working really hard and working on bringing a positive attitude, and it helped her a lot yester­day. She was able to bring in a low score for us, especially under pressure.” 
Saint Mary’s scoring five all finished in the top-10, and nine individuals secured spots in the top-13 for the Belles. Great scores across the board for the Belles, Boyce said, is an encouraging sign for the future. 
“We had two big scorers from the freshmen, and everybody just really stepped up and we got the win,” Boyce said. “[Those outside the scoring five] stepped up, too. I know their scores don’t count, but just seeing them play well was exciting because we could’ve gotten to nationals with all of those scores.” 
Boyce, who shot a 78, said the team worked on remain­ing focused and not allowing the opposition to be a distrac­tion. 
“Before we teed off, we all talked about playing loose, and we knew it’s tough to play and not think about the player you’re competing against. We all focused on our own game,” she said. “[Going to the NCAA championships is] pretty exciting, and look­ing at the score outside of the top five shows a bright future. There was a lot of pressure at the end, and it makes it so much more exciting to be going to Florida.” 
The Belles travel to Howey-in-the-Hills, Fla., from May 10 to 13 to compete in the NCAA Division III championships at Mission Inn and Resort’s El Campeon Golf Course. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
McGaffigan followed at No. 5, defeating Madeline Jaeger 6-1, 6­
2. Mathews wrapped up the quarterfinals, winning her No. 2 match 6-1, 6-4 against Lauren Greco. 
The semifinals brought a fairly easy 4-0 victory against Marquette (19-10), who the Irish beat 6-1 April 30 during the reg­ular season. After the No. 3 and No. 2 doubles courts wrapped up the doubles point, the first three singles matches concluded in vic­tory, compiling the overall win. 
Fourth-ranked Frilling took the first step for the Irish, beating Golden Eagles Olga Fisher 6-1, 6­1 on the No. 1 court. Kellner, ranked No. 112 nationally, fol­lowed at No. 3, defeating Rachael Hush 6-1, 6-0. Mathews won the final point when she took down Paola Calderon. 
In the final match against South Florida, the Irish began smoothly, with a 6-0, 6-0 victory by Rafael in the No. 4 slot against Alonso Martinez and a 6-4, 6-3 win by McGaffigan at No. 5 against Bonte. With only one point left before the Irish claimed the title, the match seemed easily won. 
The Bulls, though, did not sur­render, instead rallying to win the next two matches. In the No. 1 position South Florida’s Rehberger took down Frilling 7­5, 6-3, a loss shortly followed by Kellner’s 6-4, 6-4 defeat to Janette Bejlkova on the No. 3 court. With the score set at 3-2, Mathews began play on the No. 2 court, where she was able to defeat Vasenina 6-4, 7-5, winning not only her court, but also lead­ing the Irish to the match and title victories. 
“Everyone stepped up and played great, especially [Mathews], who clinched all three matches this weekend,” Frilling said. “We’ve all just got to get through finals and practice really hard these next two weeks.” 
Tournament selection for the NCAA championship begins Tuesday. 
“The first two rounds of NCAAs will be good matches but I think we all believe we have the ability to make it to the Sweet 16,” Frilling said. 
The first rounds of NCAA com­petition begin May 13. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 

IrishdropBigEasttitlematch 

By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 

For the second straight sea­son the No. 30 Irish fell to Louisville in the final of the Big East tournament held at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
The Irish advanced to the finals with wins over Georgetown and the South Florida while only dropping one match. 
Senior Dan Stahl was a big factor in the Irish victories all weekend, going undefeated in singles including earning one of the two wins for the Irish in the finals. 
Freshman Greg Andrews also earned a 3-0 record on the weekend in his Big East debut at No. 4 singles. 
In the finals against Louisville for the second straight weekend the Irish dropped the doubles point with three close matches. 
Junior Casey Watt and sen­ior Stephen Havens picked up the only doubles win for the Irish at No. 2 defeating Alejandro Calligari and Robert Hall. 
Junior Niall Fitzgerald and sophomore Spencer Talmadge lost to Simon Childs and Viktor Maksimuck 9-7 at No. 1. 
Freshman Greg Andrews and Stahl fell at No. 3 doubles 8-5 to Austen Childs and Adam Donaldson. 
Childs defeated Watt at No. 1 to give Louisville a 2-0 advan­tage with five matches still to play. 
Stahl earned his victory over Simon Childs 6-3, 6-2 to pull the Irish within one point of the Cardinals. 
Andrews knotted the score at 2-2 with his victory over Hall 6-4, 6-3 at No. 4 singles. 
Andrew Carter defeated freshman Blas Moros 6-2, 6-2 to pull Louisville within one point of the championship. 
Havens put up a tough battle against Maksimuk after losing the first set 6-2. He battled back to take the second set 6­1, before falling in the third 6­3. 
Junior Sam Keeton was also back in the lineup for his match at No. 5 singles for the second straight week but his match against Calligari went unfinished as the teams played to decision all week­end. 
At the start of the Big East tournament, Irish coach Bobby Bayliss was forced to drop his roster from his typical nine down to eight players, as sen­ior Tyler Davis was taken out of the doubles lineup. 
The Irish will now wait to find out if they have made it into the NCAA tournament when selections come out between 5 and 6 p.m. Tuesday. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 

Monday, May 2, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles fail to clinch berth 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
With a postseason berth on the line, the Belles won five of their six weekend games but fell just short of earning the final spot in the MIAA tourna­ment. 
The Belles’ (20-13, 9-7 MIAA) regular season was defined by streaks and, ultimately, they were unable to overcome the losing streak that consumed a large part of their season. They started the year strong, win­ning eight of their 10 games over spring break, only to drop nine of their next 13 games before capturing eight of the final 10 decisions. 
“We had an awesome start and an awesome finish [to the season],” senior outfielder Hayley Bojorquez said. “It stinks to look back and wonder why we really did go down in the middle of our season. The reason that we finished so strongly this weekend was that our pitching was stellar, our defense was awesome … and our offense was back. In the middle of the season, we were sporadic with those three things … we didn’t have all of them put together.” 
Despite their midseason struggles, the Belles entered the final weekend sitting at sixth place in the MIAA rank­ings, within reach of the fourth spot necessary to qualify for the conference tournament. Saint Mary’s aimed to close out the season with six wins, but the team came up one win short of completing the week­end sweep. 
Only one day after Thursday’s doubleheader against Hope (24-13, 12-4), Saint Mary’s set­tled for a split on Friday with visiting Olivet (14-21, 4-12). After finding themselves behind midway through the fourth inning, the Belles came to life with four runs of their own in the bottom of the fourth. 
The score would remain 4-4 until the top of the eighth inning, when Olivet took the lead with a solo home run. The Belles were unable to match the score in the bottom half of the frame and dropped the opener 5-4 in extra innings, but captured the 12-0 victory in the second game. After failing to take both of Friday’s games, the Belles realized their chances of playing in the post­season were all but lost. 
“We knew that we could pos­sibly [qualify], but we knew that our chances weren’t high,” Bojorquez said. 
The Belles took to the field once again Saturday, playing this time not for the postseason but for pride, and dispatched of Calvin (6-28, 4-12) 12-1 and 2­1. 
To conclude their stretch of four consecutive days of play, Saint Mary’s returned home for senior day Sunday against Albion (17-17, 7-9). The Belles ended the season on a high note when they escaped with a 1-0 victory in game one before dominating the second game by a score of 10-1. 
For Bojorquez, the team’s lone senior, the Senior Day vic­tories offered the chance to sal­vage what was in many ways a disappointing season. 
“Our goal today was to finish our season on two wins, to have fun with each other because we knew it would be the last time we’d be this team together. Since we didn’t accomplish our goal of making it into the conference tourna­ment, we wanted to accomplish the goal of getting to 20 wins,” Bojorquez said. “I think we were all really positive today, really in it, just excited to be out there … we just wanted to end on a good note.” 
Under current Belles coach Erin Sullivan, Saint Mary’s has registered at least 20 wins in each of the last six seasons. The Belles were able to extend the streak this year despite having only one senior on the team. 
“It was really difficult in the beginning [being the only sen­ior], but at the same time the junior class was huge and I looked to them for a lot of help,” Bojorquez said. “Even though I was the only senior and the only captain, I think that there were a lot of other people who stepped up and played that role, and helped me out and helped our team get to where it was at the end.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
BASEBALL 

Mancini’s walkoff lifts Irish to win 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Heading into a meeting between the two top pitching staffs in the Big East, it looked as if the series would come down to hitting. And with Notre Dame’s top hitter, freshman first baseman Trey Mancini, mired in a slump, the offense looked to be at a disadvantage. 
But it took one swing from Mancini to change all of that — a two-out, three-run blast in the bottom of the eighth that cleared the left field fence and gave the Irish (16-21, 7-10 Big East) a 5-4 win in Sunday’s rubber match. 
“I hit the ball pretty well,” Mancini said of his go-ahead home run. “I was looking for a fastball and [Seton Hall sopho­more reliever Ryan Harvey] threw it to me, and I was defi­nitely really excited about [the home run].” 
With the win the Irish jump from 10th place in the Big East into a tie with Rutgers for eighth, a crucial spot, as the top eight teams from the conference advance to the Big East tourna­ment, which will be played on May 25. 
“Winning two out of three in this series was really big for us because we needed to get past Seton Hall (20-21, 7-11) [in the standings] to get into the Big East tournament,” Mancini said. 
But the Irish got off to a rough start in Friday’s opener, which featured an intense pitching matchup between senior aces Brian Dupra (2-5) and Joe DiRocco (6-0). Dupra — who has given up more than two runs only three times this year — out-pitched the right-hander from New Jersey, but recorded a loss in his solid complete game per­formance. 
The veteran righty gave up only two earned runs on seven hits, but the Irish offense could-n’t muster enough run support to give Dupra the victory. 
The Irish bats did chase DiRocco from the game after recording nine hits in 6.1 innings but still left 10 on base, as Notre Dame’s only run came from a sixth-inning RBI single by junior center fielder Alex Robinson to bring the score to 2­1. 
Pirates sophomore closer Ryan Harvey relieved DiRocco and recorded the save by pitching the final two and two-thirds innings, but not without some controversy in the ninth. 
After senior pinch-hitter David Casey lined a leadoff single into right field down one run in the bottom of the ninth, sophomore designated hitter Adam Norton laid down a sacrifice bunt that caused Harvey to stumble while fielding it. Harvey made an errant throw that hit Norton in the back, but Norton was called for interference as he was ruled to be out of the baseline. 
Casey was then ordered to return to first on a play that would have put runners at the corners with no one out. Harvey proceeded to strike out the next two batters to seal the 2-1 Seton Hall victory. 
In the second game of the series, the Irish found them­selves on the winning side of a 2-1 result, as freshman left field­er Eric Jagielo hit a walk-off RBI single with two outs in the bot­tom of the 12th inning off sopho­more reliever George Fernandez. 
Notre Dame left another 11 runners on base, only managing an RBI double in the second inning by sophomore second baseman Frank DeSico, who had a multi-hit game against Pirates sophomore starter Jon Prosinski. 
The Irish were led by another stellar nine-inning performance, this time from senior right-han­der and Lowe’s Senior Class Award finalist Cole Johnson. Johnson took a no-hitter into the seventh inning before it was bro­ken up by a ground-ball single from sophomore second base­man Mike Genovese. 
“[Dupra and Johnson] have been outstanding all year long,” Irish coach Mik Aoki said. “They did a good job of throwing strikes, competing and making big pitches when you had to. Those guys have done that all year.” 
The Irish will take to the road to start a home-away series against Michigan Wednesday at 
6:05 p.m., before heading to Rutgers for a crucial series that will weigh heavily into who claims the final spot in the Big East tournament. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
ND clinches spot in conference tournament 

By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
One week removed from a big victory in their last home game, the Irish again enjoyed senior day success. This time, the win came at the expense of Louisville’s upperclassmen. 
Notre Dame (9-8, 6-2 Big East) clinched the final spot in the Big East tournament with a thrilling 16-15 defeat of the Cardinals (10-7, 3-5) Friday. The Irish then completed their regular season with a 17-6 conquest of overmatched Cincinnati (2-14, 0-8) Sunday. 
Coming into Friday’s contest, Notre Dame was 1-4 in games decided by two goals or less, including two overtime losses. Thanks to sophomore mid­fielder Jenny Granger’s goal with 0.8 seconds left off a pass from junior attack Maggie Tamasitis, the Irish got over the hump and earned their first winning streak of the sea­son. 
Irish coach Tracy Coyne said her team finally had the ball bounce their way after a sea­son of agonizing defeats. 
“We’ve had so many close games this year,” Coyne said. “Besides just talent, sometimes you need a little luck. We’ve fought hard this year and I think we finally got that break we’ve been looking for.” 
After senior midfielder Kailene Abt picked up a loose ball in the final seconds and fired a shot that went just wide of goal, Tamasitis beat the defense to the end line and gained one final chance for the Irish. The junior then found Granger all alone on the goalie’s weak side for the game winner. 
Coyne said she never intend­ed to run out the clock after having possession for the final 
4:32 of the game. 
“We were playing to win,” she said. “We ran a play at the end in order to do that. I told the team after the game even though our execution wasn’t there on that play, we had people hustling and getting after the ball, and it worked in our favor. I was really happy with the effort.” 
With a berth in the confer­ence tournament already in hand, Notre Dame traveled to Cincinnati Sunday. The Irish gained a 10-goal advantage in the first half and cruised to their third straight victory. NCAA rules require a running game clock if one team leads by 10 or more goals. Though the Irish were heavily favored to beat the Bearcats, Coyne said her team still played with focus. 
“I feel great about the win — we got a running clock in the first half and everyone was able to play,” Coyne said. “We went with a completely differ­ent lineup, and I thought after they scored the first goal we never looked back. Overall, we played crisp and sharp.” 
The Irish head into the Big East tournament with confi­dence after their late-season streak. Coyne said her team has remained a tight group throughout this season’s strug­gles. 
“They stayed positive and they haven’t turned on each other,” she said of her players. “They show up for practice every day with the right atti­tude and we’re starting to surge and build momentum.” 
Notre Dame will face Georgetown (9-7, 7-1) for the second time this season Thursday night. The game will be played in Washington D.C., a place Coyne said her team feels comfortable. 
“Georgetown is our home away from home — we always play well there,” she said. “We’re excited.” 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, May 2, 2011 
South Florida Wednesday. Valdivia also drove home a run 
Irish 
in her first ever at bat, capping off a productive day on both sides 
continued from page 20 

of the ball. Jorgensborg scored coach Deanna Gumpf started three runs and senior utility play-each of the seniors on the squad er Erin Marrone led the team in the final game of the weekend. with four RBIs. 
In the doubleheader Saturday, When the games were over, the senior outfielder Brianna seniors were able to reflect on a Jorgensborg went 4-of-4 at the solid four-year run and think plate, recording three home runs about some of the memories that and seven RBIs. Senior captain made their time at Notre Dame Heather Johnson had five hits special. and three RBIs, while seniors “When I think about my career Sadie Pitzenberger and Lex Clay here, my best experiences have each had triples in the crucial been with my teammates,” second inning of the second Valdivia said. “On or off the field game. The Irish did not strike out they have always been the great-a single time during the first est to be around. Playing with game, and the second ended with them for four years has been a walk-off home run from such a privilege.” Jorgensborg. As the season wraps up and 
The third game of the series the playoffs draw near, the Irish 
play aggressively a little sooner the team’s come-back attempt saw senior pitchers Jody Valdivia are dedicated to remaining 
than the final quarter. during the fourth quarter 
Syracuse

and Shannon Kelly combine to focused. After playing at such a 
“I’m proud of our guys because Saturday. throw a no-hitter, a special feat high level, the players have 
we were down 11-5, and we bat-“[Brenneman] was shooting the 
continued from page 20 

made all the more impressive by decided not to lose sight of what 
tled back. It stayed close and I ball well. He was able to dodge a the fact that Sunday was the offi-is immediately ahead because of 
tage over the Irish in the third loved that about our team,” he couple short sticks, and he was cial senior day. big events in the future. 
quarter, as Orange senior attack said. “Just kind of getting down able to get in position to score,” “Everyone played very well,” “We are excited to get to our 
Stephen Keogh netted his third of early is something we can’t do Earl said. “He’s a big aggressive Valdivia said. “Starting the eight postseason games but we are 
four goals on the night, energiz-because we don’t function well dodger that likes to give a good seniors in the lineup was a spe-ready to finish our conference 
ing the Syracuse crowd and mak-down early. Earlier this season run at people, and he has one of cial moment and everyone per-and head to the Big East tourna­
ing it a four-point game. we’ve been able to come back the best shots in the country. He’s formed all around, offense and ment,” Valdivia said. “We take it 
The Orange came storming out from deficits like that, but we just one of the best shooters in defense.” one game at a time.” 
in the final quarter, scoring two don’t like to put ourselves in that the country and that’s what The no-hitter was the second Notre Dame will host 
goals on Irish sophomore goalie position.” makes him one of the recorded by the Irish this week, Valparaiso Tuesday at 5 p.m. 
John Kemp, who collected nine The Syracuse midfield is [Tewaaraton Trophy nominees].” as freshman pitcher Laura 
total saves in the game. An 11-5 stacked with player-of-the-year The mood in the Notre Dame Winter etched her place in the Contact Jack Yusko at 
Orange lead would not stop the nominees, and Saturday night the locker room following the loss record books in a 1-0 victory over jyusko@nd.edu 
Irish, though, as junior attack-Irish witnessed an offensive sys-made it clear to their co-captain 
man Sean Rogers and senior tem that role plays and creates that the Irish were ready to get 
midfielders David Earl and opportunity as well as any team back on the practice field. 
Brenneman added goals with in the country. “After the game, it was one of 
time in the fall, and while the 

under five minutes remaining. “They know exactly what those things where we realized Vikings were aware of their glut 
The Irish more than doubled they’re best at, and their coach we need to get back to work. 
Rudolph 
at the position, they felt that 

the Orange’s turnovers (17-8), but and their players do a great job We’re not invincible; we have a continued from page 20 Rudolph’s talent was impossible 
they won the faceoff battle (14-9), at putting them in a position blemish on our record,” to pass up. 
gathered more man-up opportu-where they’re going to flourish,” Brenneman said. “I don’t think that it was more likely that not “When he fell to us, we felt that 
nities (2-1) and tied Syracuse in Brenneman said. “These guys are there’s any quit in this team, and that I would go yesterday, but my he was too good of a player to 
shots on goal with 33. Despite all going to play major league I’m excited to figure out what we dream has come true and I’m in pass up,” Vikings Vice President 
holding their own in these cate-lacrosse next year.” need to do.” the NFL now,” Rudolph said after of Player Personnel Rick 
gories, the eventual Irish rally Brenneman, who will most The Irish return to action in he was drafted Friday. “It was Spielman said. “I know we have 
was not enough to come back likely join them in the majors their final game Friday at North definitely tough because my ham-three tight ends on our roster 
from the first quarter deficit. next season, showcased his talent Carolina at 8 p.m. string is not an issue anymore. right now, but when you have a 
Brenneman said he was happy under pressure and in front of The MRI shows it’s 100 percent player like that, it’s just too good 
with the Irish effort, but he said the crowd of 14,751. The Irish Contact Megan Golden at healed and all the doctors dug to pass up. I know we’ll sort it all 
he wishes they had decided to captain completed a hat trick in mgolde01@saintmarys.edu and prodded on it and they can’t out as we get there.” find anything.” 
Rudolph will be competing with Contact Allan Joseph at three other tight ends for playing ajoseph2@nd.edu 
eight points each. Alexander’s Grill was only up 11-10 at halftime, 
Saturdays 
before going on a 5-1 run midway through the second half to go up 
continued from page 20 

18-13. successfully. Graduate student “It feels great [to be going to the Alex Klupchak led the way with six finals],” Crisman said after points, while Bush and Flynn each Saturday’s game. “We’ve played a contributed five. Senior Aaron lot of good teams this year. I know Nichols added four and law stu-tomorrow’s not going to be easy.” dent John Rompf also scored a Saturdays in America did not bucket. have as difficult a time against No. 
Alexander’s Grill, on the other 4 Siegfried Pizzeria — The hand, did not have as much offen-Delivery Boys, going up 11-4 at the sive variance, relying primarily on half and winning 21-10. But they senior guards Tyrell Atkins and were not content with just making Sean Reed, who combined for nine the championship game. of the 13 total points. While senior “I made it [to the finals] my forward Buchi Offodile and former sophomore year and we came up football offensive lineman senior short,” Nichols said after the semi-Matt Romine were extremely pro-final victory. “But we’re going to ductive on the defensive end — turn our luck around this year and Offodile finished with five blocks come out on top.” and Romine racked up 11 Ultimately, Nichols’ prediction rebounds — neither contributed was correct. Bush had an even much offensively. Romine finished more special bookstore experience with just two points and Offodile than most, because of the adversi­did not tally a bucket. ty he faced in reaching the finals. 
“It’s definitely a disappointing Bush, whose father attended Notre end to the whole thing, but this Dame, was not accepted to Notre year was fun,” said Alexander’s Dame for undergraduate studies Grill senior captain Dan Crisman or law school originally and had to who, along with Reed, won the transfer in before he could get a tournament last year. “We had a chance to compete in the famed brand new team that we got Bookstore Basketball tournament. together basically at the last “First thing basically when I told minute and we had a fun ride my dad I got accepted to transfer throughout the tournament. It’s a here, [he said], ‘You better get a great tournament and it’s just a good Bookstore team.’ So [winning really great experience.” the tournament is] a really good 
Both teams advanced to the feeling and I don’t know if I can championship game with wins describe it,” he said. Saturday. Alexander’s Grill defeat­ed No. 7 Team Nice 21-16, with Contact Sam Gans at Reed and Atkins again leading the sgans@nd.edu and Matthew way offensively, finishing with DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


Monday, May 2, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
WILL SHORTZ EUGENIA LAST 
CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY HENRI ARNOLD
PLEASANDV LLE JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Monday, May 2, 2011 page 20 
MEN’S LACROSSE 
Syracuse ends Irish bid for unbeaten season 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
In a matchup featuring many of the country’s top talents, the top-ranked Irish struggled offensively, as they fell 11-8 to east-coast rival and Big East regular season champion No. 4 Syracuse. 
The Irish (10-1, 5-1 Big East) opened the game with two goals from sophomore attack Ryan Foley and senior midfielder Zach Brenneman to take a quick 2-0 lead. Notre Dame’s defense fell apart with six minutes remaining in the first quarter, and Syracuse (13-1, 5-0) scored four consecutive goals to end the quarter with a 4­2 lead. 
Brenneman responded with his second goal several minutes into the second quarter, but the Orange answered once again with two goals of their own, taking a 6­3 lead into halftime. 
Syracuse recorded a 3-2 advan­
see SYRACUSE/page 18 

Orange crush 

JULIE HERDER/The Observer Irish senior midfelder Zach Brenneman looks to shoot during Notre Dame’s 12-8 win over Villanova April 2 at Arlotta Stadium. Brenneman had three goals in an 11-8 loss at Syracuse Saturday. 
FOOTBALL 
Rudolph drafted by Minnesota 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame players had a dis­appointing weekend at the NFL Draft, with only one player – tight end Kyle Rudolph – selected. In addition, due to continuing collec­tive-bargaining issues between the owners and players, none of the Irish players who went unse­lected were able to sign any free-agent contracts, as is customary for undrafted but desirable play­ers. 
Rudolph was selected by the Vikings in the second round of the draft Friday after no team select­ed him in the first round Thursday. Lingering issues about the health of Rudolph’s ham­string, which he injured last fall, may have contributed to Rudolph’s fall to the second round. 
“I was under the impression 
see RUDOLPH/page 18 

WOMEN’S BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Number Onesies win crown over Gatsby and Frosted Flakes 
continually penetrated the However, Gatsby remained game was really tough and strong left, so I just tried to By CORY BERNARD and lane for easy hoops. Their consistent and finished the went right down to the wire, force her right and get help VICKY JACOBSEN relentless attack earned them half leading 11-8. so I think we were feeling that defense. I also kept the ball Sports Writers an early 5-1 advantage. The game remained compet-today.” away from her as much as 
Number Onesies senior Mary itive throughout the second With the game tied at 18, possible.” 
Despite trailing most of the Forr said her team never pan-half as both teams traded Onesies tightened up the Blood concurred, saying she first half, No. 6 seed Number icked, knowing their shots buckets. The offenses slowed defense, blanking Gatsby for had to work hard just to touch Onesies continued to battle, would eventually fall. down as the game wore on the next several possessions to the ball. eventually finishing off No. 4 “We we’re just missing shots and the afternoon heat set in. secure the victory. “It was harder to even get a Gatsby and the Frosted Flakes in the first half,” she said. “I Blood said fatigue played a Onesies graduate student handle on the ball [in the sec­21-18 for the Bookstore had a couple that bricked. We role toward the end of the Caitlin Hutchison said her ond half],” she said. “I was Basketball championship. knew they were going to fall, contest. team’s defense of Blood keyed running around trying to get 
Led by the excellent ball though.” “We were dogging it out the win. open.” handling and quick feet of True to form, Number there,” she said. “It’s been a “[Going to Blood] was really Team captain Caitlin Lynch sophomore Connaught Blood, Onesies quickly charged back lot cooler recently so we’re how they ran their offense,” Gatsby and the Frosted Flakes to tie the game at six. not used to it. Yesterday’s Hutchison said. “She has a see BOOKSTORE/page 14 
ND SOFTBALL 

Pitchers combine for no-hitter 
By JACK YUSKO 
Sports Writer 
Superb performances from seniors at Melissa Cook Stadium, including the second no-hitter this week, made Notre Dame’s three-game sweep of Big East opponent St. John’s on senior weekend all the more sweet, winning 10-3, 11-1 and 14-0. 
“Senior day was sort of surre­al,” Irish senior pitcher Jody Valdivia said. “We have watched three other classes through it thinking our time would never come and once it did it was filled with such excitement.” 
No. 22 Notre Dame (38-8, 14-1 Big East) improved upon its stel­lar conference record due in large part to the performances from the eight seniors. Irish 
see IRISH/page 18 


BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Saturdays in America takes Bookstore title 
By SAM GANS and 
MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writers 
The seventh day of the week may have been the inspiration for No. 1 seed Saturdays in America, but it was Sunday that resulted in the team’s true one shining moment. 
Saturdays in America conclud­ed an impressive run to the Bookstore Basketball champi­onship by defeating No. 3 seed Alexander’s Grill 21-13 Sunday when law student Chuck Flynn grabbed the rebound off a blocked shot and dished a pass under the basket to fellow law student Brendan Bush for the game-clinching layup. 
Saturdays in America got off to a fast start in the contest, scoring the game’s first four baskets and pushing the margin to 6-1 early. Setting the tone early was criti­cal, according to Bush. 
“I felt like if we’d come out and play physical and get up a few buckets, they might roll over and I don’t think they did,” Bush said. “They played tough the whole game and it was a really hard-fought battle. But I just thought if we played physical and pushed it up the floor, the odds were pretty solid [in our favor].” 
Utilizing a wide variety of play­ing styles, Saturdays in America used both up-tempo fast breaks and a strong half-court offense 
see SATURDAYS/page 18 








