
Defeated 

By LAURA MYERS 
Senior Sports Writer 
INDIANAPOLIS — With less than a minute to go in the national championship game, Notre Dame’s star was at the free throw line to shoot two. 
Skylar Diggins hit both free throws, her team’s final points. 
This time, the shots did not give the Irish the lead, but rather made the score 73-70 in favor of Texas A&M. 
2001, this was not. 
Notre Dame fought back from multiple deficits but ulti­mately couldn’t catch up as Texas A&M won its first national championship in school history Tuesday 76-70. 
A minute before Diggins stepped to the line, Aggies guard Tyra White stepped to the arc with two seconds left on the shot clock and hit a 3­pointer to put her team up 73­68. 
“That was a knife right in my heart. That was the game,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “… It was an unbeliev­able shot.” 
Diggins finished the game with a team-high 23 points, the lead. which she grabbed in the sec-but didn’t score her first two “Made me want to come out ond half. until the 7:47 mark in the first in the second half and work “We did not find an answer half. hard for them, make the right for her,” McGraw said. “She’s 

That the game came down to reads and make the right pass-just a great player. She’s got a a late 3-pointer was a testa-es and everything like that,” big body, we couldn’t get ment to a Notre Dame around her.” team that was down 29-Adams used that body 
16 after 12 minutes of to draw fouls inside from 

“We wanted this bad ... 
play. Texas A&M went freshman forward on an early 8-0 run to and we fought hard, but Natalie Achonwa and 
make the score 12-4 senior forward and continued to build we couldn’t come out with Devereaux Peters. its lead. Achonwa fouled out with “We were very nerv-a win.” 4:10 left. Peters, who ous. I thought we were committed her fourth flustered offensively personal with 4:52 to and just completely out Brittany Mallory play, had to re-join the of sync,” McGraw said. game but was limited by 
Layups by junior Irish senior guard the risk of being disqual­guard Natalie Novosel ified as well. and Diggins began an 8-Adams scored four 0 run for Notre Dame, straight points to give 
which brought the score to 29-Aggies coach Gary Blair said. the Aggies back the lead at 50­
24. “Just make better decisions 48 with 13:39 left in the sec­
“It’s a group of fighters,” and be solid on defense.” ond half. The lead changed McGraw said. “I knew they The Irish continued the run four more times after that, and weren’t going to give up, and after halftime and led by as no team led by more than five they didn’t disappoint me.” many as seven. until Adams’ last free throw 
Three minutes later Diggins Then Danielle Adams took with two seconds to go. scored four straight and senior over. “We got back on our heels a Becca Bruszewski hit a layup The Texas A&M guard scored little bit, got in foul trouble,” to tie the score at 33-33. 22 points in the second half Novosel said. “And I think they Diggins scored one more layup and finished with 30 on the just kept pounding it into the to cap an 8-0 run that ended night. She also led her team post and we didn’t have an the half with Notre Dame in with nine rebounds, five of answer.” 
Peters finished the game with 21 points on 8-of-10 shooting and 11 rebounds, and Novosel scored 14 points. 
Diggins and Peters were both named to the all-tournament team following the game, along with White and Connecticut’s Maya Moore. Adams was named most out­standing player for the tourna­ment. 
“[Skylar] really stepped up her game, especially in the NCAA tournament,” McGraw said. “She really gave herself a big shot of credibility going into next year as one of the best players in the Big East and one of the top players in the country.” 
Senior captain Becca Bruszewski is the only player who will not return for the Irish in the 2011-2012 season. 
“Becca is a great leader for us. We’re going to miss her, the intangible part of her game,” McGraw said. “She really got things going. Set the tone. So it will be tough to replace her, but we have some good players coming back.” 

Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Wednesday, April 6, 2011 




SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

Irish senior forward Becca Bruszewski boxes out Aggies guard Tyra White Tuesday. Bruszewski is the only Irish player who will not be returning next year for Notre Dame’s attempt at another trip to the Final Four. 


Irish will reload in 2011-2012 
INDIANAPOLIS — When the final sec­onds ticked off the clock in Notre Dame’s 76-70 loss in the championship game, green, blue and yellow confetti streamed down from the rafters in a moment of celebration for Texas A&M 
— 
the first cham­pionship in school history. 

But it was the Irish who were pursuing destiny 

— 
they were sup­posed to win, right? After all, it was the 10-year anniversary of the program’s only title, the Final Four was held in Indiana, and Notre Dame’s sensational point guard eerily resembled her mentor and current assistant coach in a dynamic postseason run. It only seemed right that Notre Dame would send its iconic coach into the Hall of Fame this sum­mer fresh off a national championship. They even exorcised demons of the past in the three games leading up to the championship game. But, in the end, it was not the perfect storybook ending that the Irish were looking for. Even the confetti refused to believe Notre Dame had lost. 


Once the dust — and confetti — set­tles, the Irish will look back on this mag­ical run and realize what an achieve­ment it was. They defeated Oklahoma, a team that had haunted them in recent tournaments, knocked off No. 1-seeded Tennessee, a program they had never beaten (0-20 coming into the game), and saw it all culminate by handing Connecticut, the top overall seed, only its second loss in 115 games. 


This all transpired in what was sup­posed to be a transition year. After los­ing guards Ashley Barlow, Melissa Lechlitner and Lindsay Schrader to graduation, the team lost a combined 
30.6 points per game of offensive pro­duction. Skylar Diggins was asked to move to the point guard position after bursting onto the scene in a successful freshman year. Senior forward Devereaux Peters was a large question mark heading into the season with knee problems. The bench situation was even more difficult to get a grasp on heading into the season. But these questions were all answered as the season pro­gressed. 
Diggins embraced her new role and responsibilities and blossomed into one of college basketball’s most dynamic players and interesting personalities. She spearheaded the deep tournament run and was named a member of the All-Tournament team and the most valuable player of the Dayton Regional. 
“She really stepped up her game, I thought, in the NCAA tournament, par­ticularly as the games went on,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said after the loss. 
It was not just Diggins’ coach who took notice — the whole nation did, as the sophomore became a Twitter phe­nomenon in the later stages of the tour­nament. 
Peters’ knee turned out to be a non-factor, as she played in every game this season, was named the Big East Defensive Player of the Year and, along with Diggins, was a member of the All-Tournament team. She averaged 12.9 points and 7.9 rebounds as the anchor of the Notre Dame frontcourt. 
The bench was also an important fac­tor in the tournament run. Even without freshman guard Kayla McBride, who left the team for personal reasons in January, the Irish bench provided key minutes throughout the season. Freshman forward Natalie Achonwa transformed into a key contributor and especially turned her game up a notch once the Big East tournament started. Junior guard Fraderica Miller and soph­omore guard Kalia Turner gave valu­able minutes and played strong defense against some of the nation’s top guards. 
The scary thing is that this team should be even better next year. Forward Becca Bruszewski graduates, but she is the only player not returning for the 2011-12 season. McBride is expected to be back with the team in the fall. Diggins will be near the top of everyone’s preseason awards lists, and another year of experience will only strengthen her leadership and determi­nation to earn the program another national championship. 
While Bruszewski’s leadership will be greatly missed, Achonwa is ready to step in and match her production on the court. If Peters can stay healthy, the Irish will have one of the top frontcourt duos in the Big East. 
The maturation of senior guard Brittany Mallory and junior guard Natalie Novosel was very apparent, and they will continue to grow in McGraw’s system. 
Next April, it should not surprise any­one if the Irish are cutting down the nets in Denver. Only this time, the confetti will match the colors of the champi­onship team. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


the


Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Mass to remember Valero 
Observer Staff report 
A Mass of Remembrance for sophomore Sean Valero will be held Thursday at 10 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart for the entire University communi­ty. 
Valero, a native of Niskayuna, 
N.Y. and a resident of Keenan Hall, died last week. 
University president Fr. John Jenkins asked members of the Notre Dame community to keep Valero and his family in their thoughts and prayers in a Friday statement. 
“On behalf of the Notre Dame community, my deepest condo­lences go out to Sean’s family and friends,” Jenkins said. “My prayers are with them during this difficult time.” 
Fr. Joseph Carey, interim director of campus ministry, will preside over the ceremony. Fr. Tom Doyle, vice president of Student Affairs, will deliver the homily. 
A visitation in Valero’s memo­ry will be held today at the Daly Funeral Home, located at 242 McClellan Street in Schenectady, N.Y., from 4 to 7 p.m. 
A Funeral Mass will be held Thursday at 9 a.m. at St. Helen’s Catholic Church in Schenectady on 2216 Rosa Road. 


Traveling hordes leave disappointed 

the national championship for really wanted to win.” Though Texas A&M led by 13
By SAM STRYKER 

the first time with a 76-70 victo-Though star sophomore guard points at one point in the first
News Editor 

ry over the Irish. Skylar Diggins led the Fighting half, Notre Dame held a 35-33 Sophomore Katherine Damo Irish with 23 points, Aggies cen-lead entering halftime. Zeese 
A green mob of Notre Dame traveled to Indianapolis to be a ter Danielle Adams countered said he was confident in an Irish fans descended upon Conseco part of the student section. She with 30 and drove the Texas victory when the team entered Fieldhouse in Indianapolis said watching the national A&M win. the break. Tuesday night in hopes of wit-championship game in person Freshman Aaron Zeese said “It was really devastating and nessing the women’s basketball was an intense experience as the the Aggies simply played heartbreaking,” he said. “The team capture its second national lead changed frequently. stronger on the national stage way the girls were playing at title. “I would say it was a really than Notre Dame. halftime, it seemed like they 
Fans rode waves of emotion as exciting game to watch,” she “They were pretty solid. They were going to win, but it just did-the score remained close said. “They put on a really good executed better than we did,” he n’t end up that way.” throughout the game, but the show for us. It was really excit-said. “They just did better Damo said she and her friends thrilling game ended in defeat ing to the last minute. The whole tonight. [Adams] played a heck for the Irish. Texas A&M secured game was nerve-wracking. We of a game.” see IRISH/page 3 

Badin Hall named Hall of the Year 

THE BALD AND THE BEAUTIFUL 


By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
The Badin Hall Bullfrogs played leapfrog over the 28 other dorms on campus to win Hall of the Year for the 2010-2011 academic year, the Hall Presidents Council announced Tuesday evening. 
Keenan Hall and Walsh Hall received the awards for Men’s Hall of the Year and Women’s Hall of the Year, respectively. 
Badin is the first residence hall to receive the honor for two consecutive years. Hall President’s Council co-chair Alexa Doyle said the distinc­tion was duly earned. 
“We stand by our decision,” Doyle said. “The applications from all dorms were especial­ly strong this year, but Badin had a little something extra.” 
Badin president Lauren Baldwin said the environment within the dorm separated her hall from the others. 
“Getting Hall of the Year again wasn ’t our goal, ” Baldwin said. “Our goal this year was to be the best com­munity on campus.” 
Badin Hall vice president Margaret Bellon offered an explanation for how, as dorm leaders, they maintained such a strong sense of community. 
“Lauren and I are both sophomores, so we only knew last year’s Hall of the Year Badin Hall,” Bellon said. “We won again because we didn’t know how to live in a dorm that isn’t as united as Badin.” 
see BADIN/page 6 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Making a difference lecture page 4  Viewpoint page 6  Muffet McGraw: Scoring in Style page 8  Baseball v. Western Michigan preview page 20 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesdaty, April 6, 2011 
Aubrey Zielinski  Bill Lee  Britt Mawby  Katie Nunn  Trisha Harte  Will Beverly  
freshman  freshman  senior  freshman  sophomore  freshman  
Cavannaugh  Knott  off campus  McGlinn  McGlinn  Knott  
“Two pizzas at  “Water, soup,  “My O.A.R.  “I just got a  “I bought an  “Tickets to a  
Reckers … bet- and bread …  ticket!”  Diet Coke.”  iced tea this  Mozart Opera.”  
ter than the  all of the  morning.”  
detergent  basics!”  
before that.”  


LOCAL WEATHER 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 

CORRECTIONS 
An April 5 article, "Members plan awareness film," identified the Badin Hall rector as Denise McCosker. The rector of Badin Hall is Denise Lyon, and Denise McCosker is the rector of Lyons Hall. 



The Observer regrets this error. 

LOW 42 LOW 42 LOW 44 LOW 42 LOW 53 LOW 49 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT IS T E LAST T ING YOU PURC ASED? 









Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

DAN JACOBS/The Observer Notre Dame fans watch as the women’s basketball team plays for the national title Tuesday night at Conseco Fieldhouse in Indianapolis. The Irish lost to Texas A&M 76-70. 


OFFBEAT 
FBI in Vegas touting Internet bank robber gallery 
LAS VEGAS – The FBI in Las Vegas is touting an Internet gallery that posts images of Nevada bank robbery suspects in hopes of drawing tips and solving cases. 
FBI Las Vegas Special Agent in Charge Kevin Favreau says the site is similar to ones in cities including Los Angeles and Baltimore. 
It's got the faces of sus­pects and dates, but does­n't provide details about the banks or robberies. It also features a solved cases gallery. 
Right now, the site lists six unsolved and five solved cases from 2011, and 31 unsolved and 26 solved cases from 2010. 

The site also has links to Las Vegas and Henderson police, and a link to let peo­ple email tips 
Cops: Ohio man charged after barking at police dog 
MASON, Ohio – Police say an Ohio man has been charged with a misde­meanor for barking at a police dog. 
A police report says 25­year-old Ryan James Stephens was charged with teasing a police dog in the Cincinnati suburb of Mason. 
Officer Bradley Walker wrote that he heard the K9 dog barking uncontrollably inside his patrol car while he was investigating a car crash at a pub early Sunday morning. Walker says Stephens was making barking noises and hissing at the animal. 
Walker reported that Stephens said "the dog started it" when asked why he was harassing the ani­mal. The officer said Stephens appeared highly intoxicated. 
There was no answer to calls to Stephens' home in Mason. He is to appear April 21 in municipal court. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Today from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. the International Tax Assitant Program will prepare federal and state income tax returns for its clientele including fac­ulty, visiting scholars, researchers and students in LaFortune Student Center, Sorin Annex (Room 108). Available through appoint­ment only. Contact ISSA Office, 574-631-3825. 
North Carolina State University Chemical and Biomedical Engineering profes­sor Carol K. Hall is holding a discussion on the design of smart materials using comput­er simulation. The lecture today, titled “Self-assembly of Dipolar Particles: Designing Smart Materials Using Computer Simulation,” is this afternoon from 3:30 to 4:30 
p.m. in 131 DeBartolo Hall. 
Professor of English, University of Auckland (New Zealand) Brian Boyd, is giving a lecture titled, “Story of Mind” in 210 McKenna Hall from 4 to 5:30 p.m. 
Professor Terry Eagleton is a British literary theorist wide­ly regarded as Britain’s most influential living literary critic. His lecture, “What is Literature?” is this evening from 4:30 to 6 p.m. in the lower level of Mckenna Hall. A reception will follow. 


“The Two Gentlemen of Verona” continues tonight at 
7:30 p.m. at Debartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets can either be purchased at the door or online. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



Wednesday, April 6, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Irish 
continued from page 1 
began anticipating a national championship after the team’s hot finish to the first 20 minutes. 
“At halftime, we were really confident Notre Dame could win. It was really exciting seeing them come back and get the lead at halftime,” she said. “Coming back from the deficit was memorable. It was really scary in the first half. It was particularly exciting to see.” 
Sophomore Michael Nelligan said the rally leading into the break was unforgettable. 
“I thought the comeback at the first half was memorable, to see them fight back and come from behind,” he said. 
Notre Dame had an over­whelming fan turnout, Damo said. She said a noticeable sea of green filled the stands. 
“You could definitely see it throughout every single section,” she said. “It might have been three-quarters Notre Dame fans.” 
Damo said Fighting Irish fans made their presence known vocally throughout the game. Despite the loss, she said the sense of school pride was memo­rable. 
“I could hear the Notre Dame fans over the A&M fans all the time,” Damo said. “I was just really excited to be a Notre Dame fan, no matter the score.” 
The immense attendance of Irish fans contributed to a memo-rable event, Zeese said. 


“It was a great experience and opportunity,” he said. “It was awesome to see so much of the Notre Dame student body at the game.” 
Zeese said attending the title game was unlike any Notre Dame athletic experience he had ever witnessed. 
“Being at a national champi­onship, the atmosphere is pretty intense,” he said. “It was a great thrill ride, a great experience.” 
Nelligan said despite the loss, Notre Dame fought hard. He said he was glad to attend the nation­al championship. 
“They played really well, espe­cially Skylar,” Nelligan said. “Just a few plays down the stretch did-n’t go their way and went to Texas A&M, but it was good to be here.” 
With a strong showing in the tournament, including several upset wins, Nelligan said Notre Dame should be excited for its next season. 
“I feel proud of the team for making it this far to the national championship with huge wins over UConn and Tennessee,” he said. “I think the team has huge promise, especially with Skylar. I would say things are looking up.” 
Zeese said he hopes the basket­ball team’s low profile on campus rises with its strong play this spring. 
“They deserve a lot more respect than they’re given,” he said. “I hope a lot more students, including myself, go to their home games next season.” 
Though the final buzzer just rang for the 2011 championship, Zeese said he is already antici­pating next year’s team. 
“The team had a heck of a sea­son. They should not get down on this loss,” he said. “I hope they keep it up going into next winter.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
Dr. Bernard Naathanson w s an
athanso wa rtionist turned pro-life

aborti ro-lif ampi bstetrician who
champion. An o oversrsaaw nearly 70000 abortions,

ly 70,000 aborti performing nearl elf,
earlly 5,000 hims Dr. Naathansothanson wwas the co-founder of NARAL (originallly known as the The National Association
ati ati for the Re rtion L wsws).

peal of Aborti La Renouncing his prro-abortion
his pro-aborti position, Dr. Naathanso ameme
Nathanson beca pro-life in 1979. A9. AAmong his more
ro-lif table pro-lio-life work is the film,
notab ro-lif SILENTT SCREAMM,, w, which showed the ltrtrasound immage of a
powerful ultra unbo rom an
rn child shrinking fro rtionist’s instrinstruments. In a 2009


aborti ru interview with THE W ON TIMES,

WASHINGTTON TI 
Dr. Nathanson remarked:

athanso marke

“M
switch to pro-life had nothing to do with eligion . . . I changedy switch to pro-life had nothing to do with religion changed my mind, based on fetoscopies and ultrasound studies.based onfetoscopies andultrasound nce had
mymind, studies. Once wehad ultrasoundinplace,ultrasoundinplace,wecouldstudythefetusandseeitwasandseeitwasamember
couldstudythefetus member ofourcommunity oudondon’tdothat,dothat,youou’rejustjustacrcreatureatureofofpoliticalideologypoliticalideology.In1970,
ofourcommunityy. 1970,
mmunity.Ifyou y. ther ere apprapproximately 1,100ximately 1,100 articlesarticles the functioning ofthe fetus.fetus. By 1990,
there wer onon the functioning of the 1990, ther er 22,000.˜edatapiledupswiftlyandopenedpiledupswiftly windo intothewombintothewomb.



therewere22,000.˜edata andopenedawindow 


SPONSORED BY NotreDa

am Fund Basilica of the Sacred Heart. PrrootectHuman
Please join us for the monthly Rnthly RRespect Life Mass on ˜ursdayn ˜ursdayy, April 7th at 5:15 p.m. at the SPONSORED BY No re meFundto 
manLife 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 6, 2011 






Results of campus-wide cereal poll revealed 
By EMMA RUSS 
News Writer 
Breakfast lovers across campus expressed mixed reactions to the upcoming dining hall cereal selection changes that will be imple­mented next fall. Notre Dame Food Services revealed the long-awaited results of the annual cereal survey con­ducted March 24. 
South Dining Hall will add Cheerios, Rice Chex, Trix and Captain Crunch to its selection. 
Raisin Bran 


“Not enough people
Crunch, Captain the cereal sur-Crunchberries, were able to vey. Fruity Pebbles The survey 
participate in the
and Cookie was conducted 
survey for it to be an
Crisp will be during lunch eliminated from accurate meaure of hours at the South. dining halls. 
student opinion.” 
New to North Some students Dining Hall will said they were be Cheerios, Kyle Smith not in the dining Blueberry junior hall during the Trix. 
Not everyone responded positively to the survey’s results and the upcoming changes. 
“Any statistician would agree that the cereal survey is poorly conducted,” junior Kyle Smith said. “Not enough people were able to partici­pate in the survey for it to be an accurate measure of stu­dent opinion.” 
South Dining Hall manager Marc Poklinkowski said 1,100 students, roughly one-eighth 
of all under ­graduates, responded to 
Morning, Raisin Bran Crunch, Roasted Nut and Honey, Cookie Crisp, Cocoa Krispies and Fruit Loops. 
North will lose Kashi Heart-to-Heart, Low-Fat Granola with Raisins, Banana Nut Crunch, Raisin Bran, Golden Grahams, Captain Crunch and survey. 
“It is patently 
outrageous that the survey happens only one day of the year for one lunch period, ” sophomore Alex Andre said. “Some people don’t even eat lunch.” 
Andre said an online survey might increase participation in years to come. 

Other students expressed sent sales representatives frustration about the survey dressed as Tony the Tiger and 
itself, which allowed students to pick their top three cereals from a list of 60. 
“I like to eat a different cereal every day,” sen­ior Molly Casanova said. “That could be anywhere from five to seven dif­

“I was very pleased to see the results of the cereal survey.” 
Kelly Deweese sophomore 
the Trix Rabbit to stimulate interest in their products and attract people to the survey. 
“The people dressed up in the cereal suits were an inef­fective method 
of attracting 
ferent cereals per week, depending on how many times I eat breakfast. It doesn’t make sense that we only get to pick our top three cereals.” 
The day before the survey, General Mills and Kellogg’s students to the cereal survey,” Smith said. 
Despite the criticism, many students were happy with the outcome of the survey. 
“I was very pleased to see the results of the cereal sur­vey,” sophomore Kelly Deweese. “I noticed last year that many of the healthy cere­als disappeared from the menu and were replaced with sugary cereals. This year South Dining Hall will again have Rice Chex and Cheerios.” 
Because students tend to form individual preferences for a particular dining hall, food administrators provide a separate survey for each one. 
“It gives the student another possible location to find their favorite cereal if it isn’t in their usual dining hall,” Poklinkowski said. 
Contact Emma Russ at eruss@nd.edu 



Notre Dame graduates make a living and a difference 
While in Chile, Bill Jordan 

By TORI ROECK News Writer  said University Emeritus Fr.  President Theodore  
Hesburgh gave him advice that  
Bill and Nancy Jordan,  co- shaped his career.  
founders of the Let’s Share the  When Hesburgh and other  
Sun Foundation, discussed how  priests from Notre Dame came  
they strike a bal­ to visit the vol­ 
ance  between  unteers,  Bill  
their for-profit work and chari­ “This is going to be a  Jordan asked him about the  
table  work  in  more dramatic  d i c h o t o m y  
solar energy Tuesday. Their lecture, titled “Making a  change in our lifetime than the Internet revolution  between the powerful repre­sentatives from Notre Dame and  
Living Making a  was.”  the poor farmers  
D i f f e r e n c e , ”  in Chile.  
recounted the couple’s journey to their current  Bill Jordan Let’s Share the Sun  “He replied, ‘We want you to have this experi­ 
work with  sus- Foundation  ence, and I know  
tainability.  that service has  
The  Let’s  taken  Notre  
Share  the  Sun  Dame students  
Foundation works in conjunc­ to the far corners of the world,  
tion with the Jordans’ for-profit  much more isolated than Chile.  
business, Jordan Energy and  But develop talents. Get gradu- MAGGIE O’BRIEN/The Observer  
Food Services, to harness the  ate degrees. You will do more Bill and  Nanc y Jord an spoke to students Tuesday about how they manage both for-proft and  
power of the sun for poor peo­ good if you learn about solar charitable work.  
ple around the world.  [power] and help bring it to  
The Jordans began their lec­ people than if you just work  energy.  The  solar  industry  will be led by people who are  The Jordans said their chari­ 
ture  with  a  with that small  already grosses $6 trillion per  the age of Steve Jobs and Bill  table work through the Let’s  
prayer.  group  of  year.  Gates.”  Share  the  Sun  Foundation  
“Lord, inspire us here tonight to create sus-tainability in a world of energy and food pover­ “I said to myself, ‘This is where Notre Dame needs to be, here amongst the poor,  c a m p e s i n o farmers your whole life,” Bill Jordan said. Since they left Chile, the  Bill Jordan said the amount of sunlight that hits the earth in an hour could power it for a year, making solar energy a key to sustainability in coming years.  Students contributed to the foundation last weekend through a fundraiser hosted by the International Development branch of the Entrepreneurship Society. The  helps maintain this focus. Nancy Jordan said she and her husband allot 10 percent of their assets to the Let’s Share the Sun Foundation. The foun­dation made great strides in  
ty,” Nancy Jordan said. Nancy Jordan said she and her  here amongst the rubble, here making a difference and here  Jordans said they have done what they can to change the  “This is going to be a more dramatic change in our lifetime than the Internet revolution was,” Bill Jordan said.  Jordans were presented with a check for $1,222 that was raised through a dance held Saturday.  bringing solar energy to Haiti, in particular when it partnered with the Notre Dame Haiti Program.  
husband, both 1985 Notre  being a sign of hope.”  lives of the 1.7 billion people,  The materials to harness solar energy are also inexpen- From an economic perspec­tive, Bill Jordan said compa- When Nancy Jordan visited the University’s facility in Haiti,  
Dame gradu-ates, met through the  Nancy Jordan Let’s Share the Sun  or 24 percent of the global popu­lation, living  sive, making it a low cost alter­native, Bill Jordan said. Bill Jordan acknowledged the  nies should focus on sharing energy instead of fighting for control of resources.  she said she felt confident in their work. “I said to myself, ‘This is  
Center for Social  Foundation  without electric- role young people play in the  “We have a huge opportunity  where Notre Dame needs to be,  
Concerns during  ity worldwide,  future of solar energy.  as  you enter the professional  here amongst the poor, here  
their  time  as  while still main­ “We want to have a connec­ world, maybe the biggest in  amongst the rubble, here mak­ 
students.  taining  their  tion with academia,” he said.  our  lives, to think about the  ing a difference and here being  
After graduation, they both  for-profit business.  “This change in society is not  world in terms of sharing in  a sign of hope.’”  
worked as Holy Cross lay mis- Bill Jordan said as the global  going to be led by white haired  abundance as opposed to com­ 
sionaries  in  Chile,  Nancy  supply  of  oil  depletes,  the  guys like  me  at my age. This  peting for scarcity,” Bill Jordan  Contact Tori Roeck at  
Jordan said.  future of energy is in solar  change [like that of technology]  said.  vroeck@nd.edu  

Wednesday, April 6, 2011 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 5 page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 6, 2011 


Badin 
continued from page 1 
Baldwin said Badin collabo­rated with other dorm events 
on campus and hosted Acousticafe on the dorm porch, which contributed to the dorm’s success. 
Badin’s school spirit and hall spirit was a big part of the Hall Presidents Council’s decision, according to Hall Presidents Council executive co-chair Mike Oliver. 
“Badin stood out compared to every other dorm,” Oliver said. 
Keenan Hall worked hard to earn the distinction of Men ’s Hall of the Year, Keenan president Raymond Gallagher said. 
“[Hall of the Year] was a goal that we had going into this year,” Gallagher said. “The effort was a collabora­tion of different groups and classes in the dorm.” 
Instead of adding many events to the dorm portfolio, Keenan worked to make their signature events bigger and placed a large emphasis on the Keenan Revue, Gallagher said. 
Keenan vice president Dennis Smith will serve as hall president next year. He said he hopes Keenan can continue its success. 
“It is going to be a hard act to follow next year,” Smith said. 
According to Walsh Hall president Julie Zorb, the Wild Women of Walsh were hon­ored to earn Women’s Hall of the Year. 
“It’s great to get recogni­tion for the amazing commu­nity we had this year,” Zorb said. 
Walsh worked to improve past events and create new traditions under strong sen­ior leadership and an entirely new hall staff, she said. 
This year, Walsh founded a local chapter of a national organization called Girls on the Run, Zorb said. The organization works with ele­mentary school girls and teaches them about body image and exercise as they prepare to run a 5k. 
The dorm’s work with the charity was a large part of their success, Zorb said. 
Doyle and Oliver said Hall Presidents Council deter ­mines the award recipients based on monthly Rockne portfolio submissions and the dorm’s overall contribution to campus life. The Rockne submissions keep the Hall Presidents Council updated on each dorm’s activities as they promote the academic, athletic, liturgical, environ­mental, social and multicul­tural aspects of dorm life. 
“We take a step back and look at who enriched campus life the most through their residence hall,” Oliver said. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 




‘Dis-Oriented’ confronts stereotypes 
By KATIE CARLISLE 
News Writer 

Three Middle Eastern and Asian-American women will perform their piece “Dis-Oriented” at Saint Mary’s Thursday to challenge ethnic stereotypes, following last week’s Diverse Students’ Leadership Conference (DSLC). 
Stephanie Bridges, director of multicultural services and student programs, discovered “Dis-Oriented” as she searched for acts related to May’s Asian Pacific American Heritage month. 
“It will allow [the audience] to look at Asian heritage from multiple perspectives and gives everyone an opportunity to look at the impact stereo­types have,” Bridges said. 
The most prevalent stereo­type is that Asian culture is synonymous with Chinese, Bridges said, which is pre­cisely what these women intend to disprove. 
Performers Coke Nakamoto, Zahra Noorbakhsh and Thao Nguyen drew from their own life experiences to write skits about the struggles they face as Asian-American women. The women are Japanese, Iranian and Vietnamese, respectively. 
The women will combine theatre and education in their three-skit show. In “Dis-Oriented,” each woman pres­ents her own unique story and perspective on Asian stereotypes. 
“This should be a great opportunity to take a look at a different cultural experi­ence through theatre, but also an educative experience about the transitions other cultures make in America,” said Bridges. 
The event is sponsored by the Center for Women’s Intercultural Leadership (CWIL). 
CWIL director Elaine Meyer-Lee said the event cel­ebrates unique aspects of Asian culture. 
“We believe that it is impor­tant to recognize and value the rich tradition within every ethnic group, and to question stereotypes such as that of Asian-American women as some kind of ‘model minority,’” Meyer-Lee said. 
Meyer-Lee said she hopes “Dis-Oriented” will impact the College. Everyone can take something away from this event, whether it be criti­cally examining personal beliefs or simply enjoying the comedic performances. 
“We look forward to this performance as an engaging and powerful intercultural experience for our whole community,” she said. 
The show will open with a performance at noon Thursday in the Student Center Lounge. A second per­formance will be held at 7 
p.m. in the Moreau Little Theatre. 

Contact Katie Carlisle at kcarli02@saintmarys.edu 


Wednesday, April 6, 2011 The Observer . NEWS page 7 


SMC to institute new minor 
By OLIVIA BRACH 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s students who want to go green with their degree will get the chance this fall when the Environmental Studies depart­ment offers a minor in their pro­gram for the first time. 
Christopher Cobb, assistant pro­fessor of English, will direct the new minor. 
“[Environmental studies] brings together natural science, social sci­ence, the humanities, and [profes­sional life] to understand and solve environmental problems,” Cobb said. 
Current and prospective stu­dents expressed interest in envi­ronmental studies as the discipline increases in popularity at liberal arts colleges, Cobb said. 
“[The new minor arose from] ongoing interest in environmental issues on behalf of the students,” Cobb said. “The actual develop­ment of the program was initiated by faculty interest.” 
Initial efforts for a minor in envi­ronmental studies began four years ago. Cobb said the plans came to fruition when he teamed with Dr. Cassie Majetic, professor of biology at the College. 

“Our goal is to incorporate not just the scientific disciplines but to help students understand how many perspectives and disciplines contribute to understanding and solving environmental problems,” Majetic said. 
Cobb said formal approval of the minor occurred in three steps. First, Majetic and Cobb comprised a “prospectus” that demonstrated the need and value for the minor, Cobb said. Faculty Dean Patricia Fleming then approved the plan. 
Once the prospectus was approved, the duo created a for­mal proposal that included a full design of the minor, required courses and objectives. The pro­posal was then presented to the curriculum committee. After the formal proposal was approved, academic affairs, the ultimate decision making body, gave final approval. 
Cobb said the interdisciplinary minor, which consists of sixteen total credit hours, will draw from courses in English, humanistic studies, political science, nursing and justice education. 
Students in the minor will also take three courses directly related to environmental studies, Cobb said. 
Cobb and Majetic said they have high hopes for those students who choose to pursue the new minor. 
“I hope that the students will gain the knowledge and skill to make a difference in the world, as our society struggles to make our way of life sustainable,” Cobb said. “[I hope students] develop an awareness of their relationship to nature in a way that will be enriching to their lives”. 
Majetic said she hopes students will learn to engage others in dia­logue about environmental con­cerns and advocate for environ­mental change. 
Contact Olivia Brach at obrach01@saintmarys.edu 


Obama urges parties to compromise on cuts 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON, D.C. — Prodded by an insistent President Barack Obama, Congress’ top two lawmakers sought to reinvigorate compro­mise talks Tuesday aimed at cutting tens of billions in feder­al spending and averting a partial government shutdown Friday at midnight. 
There was at least a hint of flexibility, accompanied by sharply partisan attacks and an outburst of shutdown brinksmanship. 
According to Democrats, House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, suggested at a White House meeting that fellow Republicans might be able to accept a deal with $40 billion in cuts. That’s more than nego­tiators had been eyeing but less than the House seeks. 
The speaker’s office declined comment, and Boehner issued a statement saying, “We can still avoid a shutdown, but Democrats are going to need to get serious about cutting spending — and soon.” 
For his part, Senate Majority leader Harry Reid sounded an accusatory note. “I hope the Republicans do what the coun­try needs, not what they believe the tea party wants,” he said at the Capitol 
“I mean, it seems that every step we take, it's something just to poke us in the eye,” he said. 
Boehner and Reid met pri­vately later in the day. While there was no indication of sub­stantive progress, there was a marked change in tone after­wards. 
Spokesmen for the two issued identical statements, shorn of partisan bickering, saying the two leaders “had a productive discussion. They agreed to continue working on a budget solution.” 
Obama stepped forcefully into the dispute, at times sounding like an exasperated parent. 
He convened a meeting at the White House with the chief congressional antagonists, rejected a Republican proposal for an interim bill with sharp cuts and then announced Boehner and Reid would meet later in the day. 
If they can’t sort out their differences, he said, “I want them back here tomorrow.” 
And if that doesn’t work, he added, “we’ll invite them again the day after that. And I will have my entire team available to work through the details of getting a deal done.” 
Obama, eager to regain the confidence of independent vot­ers as he seeks a new term, said the American public expects that its leaders “act like grown-ups, and when we are in negotiations like this, that everybody gives a little bit, compromises a little bit in order to do the people's busi­ness.” 
At issue is legislation needed to keep the government run­ning through the Sept. 30 end of the budget year, and a desire by all sides to avoid being blamed politically if there is a shutdown. 
Twin closures in the mid­1990s boomeranged on Republicans when Newt Gingrich was speaker, helping Bill Clinton win re-election in 1996. 
This year, both the White House and lawmakers have used the threat of a shutdown to seek leverage in the talks. 
Republicans issued a 13-page pamphlet during the day pro­viding guidance to congres­sional offices on operations during a shutdown. Boehner’s office said Monday night the document had been prepared “in the event Senate Democrats shut down the gov­ernment.” 
Reid’s spokesman, Jon Summers, likened the maneu­ver to a “dress rehearsal for a shutdown that the tea party so desires.” 
But one Republican official said it was a response to a memo on Monday distributed by Jeffrey Zients, deputy direc­tor of Obama’s Office of Management and Budget. 
Zients wrote that all parties wish to avoid a shutdown but, “given the realities of the cal­endar, good management requires that we continue con­tingency planning for an order­ly shutdown should the negoti­ations not be completed by ... this coming Friday.” 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 8 Wednesday, April 6, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Disappointing finish 
Monday’s NCAA men’s basketball championship provided a significant, if sloppy, conclusion to the 2010-2011 season. The uncommonly low final score of Connecticut’s 53-41 win over Butler leads me to ask only one 
Joseph Monardo 
question: When do they play the 
Sports Wire 
second half? 
Editor 
The dearth of scoring in Monday’s title game is just one of a number of reasons why the game was a disappointment to fans (myself included). Not that I need high-paced, light up the scoreboard, burn the nets down action to entertain me, but when a team shoots 18.8 per­cent from the field for the entire game (in the national championship, for Pete’s sake!), I can’t help but want to turn away. Butler’s shooting in the second half would have drawn ridicule from even the most polite group of bystanders at the Bookstore Tournament, so I for one am grateful that I avoided Charles Barkley’s postgame analysis. 
That the Bulldogs had garnered nationwide support for its improbable run to the final game of the 2010, I mean, 2011 tournament makes their showing even more disappointing. Time and time again, Matt Howard and Shelvin Mack had led the Bulldogs against more imposing opponents, sur­mounting the seemingly insurmount­able. Butler had proven all of us haters wrong so many times (I’m not the only one that had them losing to Old Dominion) that we had finally come to expect them to pull off stunning victory after stunning victory. But, as they have made a habit of doing, the boys from Indianapolis proved us wrong once again, this time by coming up short. 
It is truly unfortunate for the Butler players and coaches, the NCAA and fans of the game that the Bulldogs turned in such a futile offensive performance. For Butler, the game serves as a blemish on a remarkable couple of years, threaten­ing their legitimacy as a power on the court. 
For the NCAA, it is lamentable that on the game’s biggest stage, a product that was anything but ideal was delivered. For the fans, the memory of the tourna­ment darlings’ collapse, rather than any number of great moments from the past season, will remain freshest in our minds throughout the long offseason. 
Compounding my disappointment in Butler’s loss is my disappointment in Connecticut’s win. Jim Calhoun is a known violator of NCAA rules, and Notre Dame outmatched the Kemba Walker-led unit twice in the regular season. Enough said. 
Still, in spite of my disappointment, I realize that some congratulations are in order. First, congratulations to coach Jim Calhoun and the Connecticut Huskies for winning the national cham­pionship. Not many people had you pegged as the next national champions when this season started, and regard­less of the circumstances, the feat is worthy of praise. 
Second, congratulations to coach Brad Stevens and the Butler Bulldogs for reaching the championship game and for being so darn likeable. Finally, con­gratulations to men’s basketball for put­ting on such a spectacular season. I can’t wait for the madness to begin once again. 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


The bright side of education 
When we hear about education these days, the typical news is both dire and ominous. One of the most prevalent refrains is that America lags embar­rassingly behind other nations in stan­dardized test scores. Another is the inadequacy of our STEM educa­tion — science, technology, engi­neering and math. We are barraged by information about how American stu-Edward Larkin dents are in free-fall compared to 

Scientific 
our ruthlessly 
Notation 
ambitious Chinese counterparts, books revealing how our university sys­tem fails to develop critical thinking skills, reports on the mess of our public school system. Some debates are bitter and rusted down from years of stagna­tion (think affirmative action and teachers unions). 
Other debates are simply bewildering 
— we hear contradictory volleys about the political indoctrination of students. One side claims that teachers and aca­demics are far too liberal, while the other bemoans the efficacy of religious fundamentalists in forcing the pseudo­science of intelligent design to be taught as a viable alternative to evolu­tion. 
One only need watch the vitriol spewed between New Jersey governor Chris Christie and state teachers to gain an accurate picture of America’s collective feelings towards education. Peter Thiel, the famous venture capi­talist who invested in Facebook in its earliest days, recently set up an initia­tive that will pay promising under-20­year-old students $100,000 to drop out of school. That certainly sounds like a vote of no confidence if I’ve ever heard one. 
Is there any room for optimism against this harsh backdrop of disap­pointment and fear? Actually, yes. While most of the things we may hear about modern education might make us sincerely worry about both the future of our country and the fitness of our next generation to inherit the earth, recent developments in technol­ogy promise a bright new future in education. 

First, there is the rise of open course-ware. The idea consists of putting all content and material from university classes online, accessible to everyone in the world. 
It promises to unlock the knowledge of our greatest schools and universities and disperse to it to any eager learners in the general public. The most promi­nent open courseware system was spearheaded ten years ago by Massachusetts Institute of Technology. They now have over 2,000 courses, many complete with video lectures by esteemed MIT professors, class notes, tests, assignments and projects. MIT claims to have over 100 million individ­ual users. Stanford has a similar setup, offered through iTunesU. Notre Dame was also actually a fairly early pioneer of open courseware, and has its own smaller collection of classes available to anyone at ocw.nd.edu. Everyone from intellectually curious highschool­ers, to university students who want to expand their knowledge, to older pro­fessionals looking for something new to learn, stand to benefit from the devel­opment. 
Another transformative movement, started recently, is the “Khan Academy.” Sal Kahn started recording brief lectures on algebra in 2006, post­ing them to YouTube. Since, it has blown up in both scale and publicity — there are more than 2,200 free lectures from Kahn on YouTube and iTunes. Bill Gates, the eminent education analyst, has spoken glowingly of the Academy. 
Kahn, who holds degrees in mathe­matics and electrical engineering from MIT and an MBA from Harvard, recently gave a talk at the uber-high profile TED conference about his ideas on education. Google pledged $2 mil­lion to the Academy to translate the videos into ten of the world’s major languages. 
The larger possibilities of such online learning are very provocative indeed. As computer access becomes ever more available in a variety of formats (laptops, phones, tablets), this online educational system will accordingly become more accessible. School dis­tricts that struggle to find quality teachers or have consistently low results can implement such technology to make sure that children are learning from the very best in the field. Independent learners can get even fur­ther ahead than before. Inner-city schools may at some point in the future need only a network connection to gain access to the greatest teachers and the greatest ideas in the world. 
These developments will by no means solve our educational problems. Students still need support networks to make learning a consistent habit. Making online lectures more respon­sive to individual classrooms with diverse learners synthesizing informa­tion at different paces will also need to be implemented. These are only a few of the formidable challenges facing our educational system. But the overall trend is promising — the barriers to entry to elite education are being over­come by advancing technology. 
In the meantime, we might temper our own instincts toward pessimism by adopting a more realistic view of America’s place in the educational world. First of all, we haven’t fallen from the top — we have never led the world in international educational assessments. Second, the specter of Chinese dominance, while theoretically possible, isn’t backed up by the evi­dence. China has never even taken part in an international educational assess­ment. It’s easy to see how the tradition­al psychological forces shaping human nature — fear for the next generation and wariness of an unknown foreign rival — shape the traditional narrative. 
To be certain, this less alarmist out­look on education in America should by no means temper our drive to constant­ly improve our educational system — quite the contrary. But in the mean­time, we might as well do so smiling rather than frowning. 
Edward Larkin is a senior majoring in biological sciences and classical civilization. He can be reached at elarkin1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

R-E-S-P-E-C-T 
In response to the light dusting of con­troversy surrounding the letter “Ladies, be decent” (April 4), I offer the following thoughts: 
First of all, whether intended or not, immodesty in both women and men leads to a publicizing of sexuality. We hear from numerous sources that our sexuality is a private matter, and I agree. Public sexuality, then, should not be promoted. One thing that it can do is make a person’s sexual expression more general. Which is exactly what the 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A woman is like a tea bag — younever know how strong she is untilshe gets in hot water.” 
Eleanor Roosevelt 
U.S. diplomat and reformer 

“hook-up culture” entails. It is an expression of free love that fits very well into public sexualization promoted by intentional or unintentional immodesty. 
Second, I try in all my interactions with women to respect them for their entire self, not divide them into “per­sonality,” “looks,” and “availability.” To me, that is a disrespect to the per­son. Unfortunately, it is my experience that immodest dress tends to emphasize one aspect of self so that my experience of the person is divided. For me, this is especially in regards to women, howev­er, I know that this can apply to immod­esty in men as well. 

Third, I am a proponent of dressing well, neatly, and fashionably. However, I cannot endorse a fashion that divides the person and promotes public sexual­ization. 
Nathaniel Gotcher 
sophomore Morrissey Manor Apr. 5 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I stand in awe of my body.” 
Henry David Thoreau
U.S. transcendentalist author 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 
Wednesday, April 6, 2011 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Hobbes on room picks 
In his famous philosophical work “Leviathan,” Thomas Hobbes outlines what he calls a “State of nature,” an anarchic situation characterized by a war of all against all with each person struggling for survival. Having recently experienced room picks here at Notre Dame, I can’t help but feel like Hobbes somehow had the room selection process in mind when came up with this idea. 
Room picks are, in essence, a survival of the fittest; some of the country’s most intelligent young men and women fighting for the best rooms and best roommates, leaving behind a wake of bruised egos and shattered self-esteem wider than Rush Limbaugh’s waistband. In a way, room picks and Chicago politics are eerily similar. One of them is characterized by bribery, intimidation, shady deal­ings, and a blatant disregard for rules or common human decency, and Chicago politics are pretty bad too. Just last week I overheard two kids discussing how some juniors in their dorm would likely accept their offer of $800 to pass over the room that they wanted. I can think of a better way that a college student could spend $800, but maybe it would be best if I left that topic unaddressed. 
Room picks can be particularly brutal for those students who, when everybody seems to have paired up with someone, are left out in the cold. Many of these kids are left with no other choice than to room with other students who find themselves in a similar predicament, leading to one of the biggest pairings of lonely people since the invention of online dating. 
I realize that Notre Dame tries to prevent much of this behavior from happening, and for the most part it does a good job, but as long as this University con­tinues to attract the nation’s brightest and most com­petitive students, these students will always find a way to bend the rules, creating a situation that Hobbes, if he were alive today and attending Notre Dame, would proudly call a “State of nature.” Too bad nobody would want to room with Hobbes any­way. 
Dan Brombach 
freshman Siegfried Hall Apr. 5 

‘Bold, risqué , leggings as pants’ 
Dear Kevin, 
You finally noticed me! 
Sweater vest after sweater vest, peasant skirt after peasant skirt, for three years I have endeav­ored to arrest your attention. Knowing you desire a woman with class, I have routinely dined at South on Friday nights wearing an assortment of beige shoulder-padded blazers, hoping to finally meet your gaze from across crowded tables of inappro­priately dressed ladies-of-the-night. I wanted you to know I would not be doing anything fun that evening. I was yours: trustworthy and respectful. Alas, even such attempts proved futile. After two and a half years of counseling and taupe wardrobe changes, I can finally cope with the fact that only the real Hillary Clinton can make your fantasies come true. 
However, even that epiphany could not deter me from my mission that is your pursuit. In admittedly a desperate act, I wore leggings as pants! After countless balled up pro-con lists accumulated in my bedroom’s recycle bin, I finally decided upon the fol­lowing evening’s outfit. Bold. Risqué. Leggings as pants. 
Why didn’t you see me as a fertile woman with childbearing hips? With a wide-set pelvic structure that could provide you with countless male proge­ny? For that I blame you! How could you misinter­pret my outfit, when every stitch of woolen tan fab­ric I’ve worn for you? 
No, but really. While I agree that leggings are not pants, it is also true that leggings are not pants just like your reasoning is not reasonable. Your reason­ing is that this girl should not have worn leggings as pants because (1) you no longer would consider pursuing her, and (2) because it sends the message that it’s okay to disrespect her. You’ve just made a lot of assumptions there buddy. She’s heterosexual. She wants to impress you. Every guy she meets is a potential mate. What she wears reflects her charac­ter. If she wears something deemed “risqué” by you, she’s got bad self-esteem and lets men disrespect her. Newsflash: She didn’t wake up in the morning, ask herself, “What can I wear that says, ‘Disrespect me,’” and then threw on some leggings. 
The reason I write a response, Kevin, is that your attitude is a dangerous one to have. Sexual assault is a problem. And the fact that you, a self-declared, classy gentlemen, judges the integrity and intent of a woman by what she’s wearing, does not bode well for the movement to stop sexual assault. “What was she wearing?” in any case, whether in South Dining Hall or Club Fever, is never reasonable reasoning. 
Anne Spont 
senior 
off campus 
Apr. 5 

The right conscience 
What comes to mind when you hear “HEI”? Most of us would either draw a blank or imme­diately think about liberals, radicals, or simply orange jumpsuits. This, however, is not a politi­cal, radical, or anti-Notre Dame matter; it is purely a matter of fighting an injustice that has manifested itself in our University’s endowment in a hotel company that stifles and abuses its workforce. 
When a company is under fire for employing business techniques, which cut costs and increase profits, yet harm human beings, it becomes an issue of human rights. It is an issue that anyone with a heart should care about, one that is not exclusive to any kind of political, religious, or social affiliation. This February, after years of student campaigning, Brown University President Ruth Simmons announced that the University would stop investing in HEI hotels. Following close on its heels was the University of Pennsylvania, which after years of students pressuring the university to stop rein­vestment, announced in March that it had no plans to make future investments in HEI-spon­sored funds. As a Catholic university that seeks to “create a sense of human solidarity and con­cern for the common good” and one that embraces the call to defend human life and dig­nity, we should be protecting workers and their rights. We should be setting the example for other universities. In reality, we still have much progress to make but also a cause for hope, hope manifested by our predecessors. 
Button-Up Day, as part of National Week of Action, will be this Friday, April 8; all are encouraged to stop by Field House Mall between 2 and 6 PM to show support or learn more. This will be an opportunity to raise awareness, a celebration of the recent victories, and an encouragement for those who aim to achieve the same. The University of Notre Dame, not just as a Catholic community, but also as a humane community must join Brown and UPenn in this fight against human greed and the resulting maltreatment of workers. Our university has the right conscience; it simply has to act on it. 
Hien Luu 
freshman Welsh Family Hall Apr. 5 

A community that listens 
A member of our community committed suicide last week. I do not know Sean Valero, nor do I know any of the circumstances sur­rounding his death. What I do know, however, is that suicide is often the end result of untreated or unsuccessfully treated depres­sion, and depression is a serious illness. 
An estimated 19 million Americans have major depression, a clin­ical disorder, and more than 1 in 10 people suffering from depres­sion commit suicide. It’s the second leading cause of death amongst college students. It’s an all too common problem that is talked about much too little. If you’re feeling depressed or suicidal, you’re not alone, but you do need to seek help. There are a variety of resources available, both at this university and in the greater com­munity, to effectively treat depression. Make an appointment at the University Counseling Center (574-631-7336), where anything you discuss will remain confidential. If you’re suicidal, call 911, or get to the nearest Emergency Room, where you can receive immediate help. You can also call the National Suicide Prevention Line at 1­800-273-8255 to speak with trained personnel at a crisis center. 
You don’t need to have any experience with depression to be a friend to a person suffering from it. All you need to do is sit and lis­ten. If you think somebody may be depressed, please talk to them. Let them know you care, and encourage them to seek help. Go to the UCC with them or on their behalf. Don’t downplay any talk of suicide; if you think a person is a danger to themselves, call 911 or take them to an ER. 
I do not know Sean Valero or his family and friends. However, I know his death is a tragedy. In memory of him, let’s make Notre Dame a place where mental illness is not stigmatized, but under­stood. In memory of him, go out of your way to make sure that you’re there for anybody who needs somebody to listen. Keep Sean’s family and friends in your prayers, and please remember, if you are feeling suicidal, seek help immediately. Please. 
Mary Deweese 
senior 
off campus 
Apr. 5 


‘What she wants’ 
Dear Mr. Brainard, 
As an avid champion of the anti-LAP (Leggings As Pants) crusade, I was initially very excited to read your letter yesterday (“Ladies, be decent,” Apr. 5). However, upon finishing the article, I was quite dis­turbed. Several things bother me. First, I question your definition of “tights.” Tights are traditionally sheer, and it is common knowledge among most women that tights are never to be worn as pants. Leggings, however, are often made of a much thicker fabric, and thus provide more coverage. Leggings are generally regarded as infinitely more appropriate for public pant-wear than tights. Was the young woman in question who so greatly offended you wearing tights or leggings? Please clarify. 
Second, your rhetoric surrounding this young woman implies two very dangerous things. First, this girl was in all likelihood not attempting to woo you by wearing tights (leggings?) to lunch at South Dining Hall. You state that you cannot respect a woman who doesn’t respect herself, nor can you trust her to respect you. In addition to that, you decide you won’t be pursuing this young woman or “anyone like that.” Problem is, you’ve based these rather large snap judgments solely on this young woman’s choice of leg-wear at the dining hall. Maybe her shirt rode up, and you simply saw her at a bad moment. I myself have suffered from the plague of Rising Shirt Syndrome when bustling about campus. Or maybe she did choose to wear a shorter shirt, for whatever reason. Is it really that indicative of her level of self-respect? 
Finally, and most importantly, you make a huge and irrational jump by connecting this particular woman’s middle-of-the-day out­fit choice to the hook-up culture at Notre Dame. Your closing state­ment is what really inspired me to write this response: “If you want to meet a true gentleman that will treat you as an upstanding young lady as opposed to just a successful end to a fun night, act like it.” She wasn’t acting like anything, she was just wearing some­thing with which you personally disagreed. By using this sort of lan­guage, you are placing the blame on this young woman, implying that by dressing as such she’s “asking for it,” that is, asking to be treated disrespectfully by men. While I am hopeful that you do not actually feel this way, it is this sort of mindset, on any level, that fos­ters an unhealthy sexual assault/rape culture that relies heavily on victim-blaming. 
While current society at large would have us believe a woman’s appearance is entirely indicative of “what she wants,” a smart indi­vidual and upstanding Notre Dame gentleman such as yourself must know better. Please, get to know a woman before deciding what her intentions for the day, night or her future are. Thank you! 
Catherine Scallen 
senior 
off campus 
Apr. 5 

The Observer 



Scene
page 10 Wednesday, April 6, 2011 






SOFIA ITURBE I Observer Graphic 
The Observer 


Scene
Wednesday, April 6, 2011 page 11 
2/28 vs. DePaul SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Muffett takes a cue from abstract artists and goes for a statement jacket, but keeps it classic in black and white. By adding her favorite red acces­sories, she shows her fashion isn’t just the cherry on the sundae — it’s the dessert you’ve been waiting for. SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer  3/19 vs. Utah Black and red — they may be the col­ors of the opposing team, but once Muffet’s done with them, they’re one winning outfit. Add the gold earrings, and you’ve got a sparkle you know Utah never had. SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 
3/21 vs. Temple Muffet proves she’s the mistress of the court with this perfectly tailored gray suit and ruffled blouse. Think she’s all about the rules? Take a look at her green nails — trends, team spirit, and tailoring all rolled into one. SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer  
3/26 vs. Oklahoma  
3/28 vs. Tennessee The hammered details of the sil­ver belt pick up on the pattern of Muffet’s skirt, which is in turn brightened by a Kelly green T-shirt and green and blue jewelry. Add a smile to that style and you’ve got a perfect team.  
GRANT TOBIN/The Observer GRANT TOBIN/The Observer GRANT TOBIN/The Observer  MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer Muffett shows us how to emphasize the waist with a cinched belt over a leopard blouse and knee-length skirt. A great figure obviously comes with great strategy.  

SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 6, 2011 
MLB 


Tape may not be admissable in Bonds case 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — A feder­al judge ruled jurors in the Barry Bonds trial may not hear a freshly rediscovered recording of two key witness­es — ridiculed by the defense as a “miracle tape” — as prosecutors rested their case against the home-run king Tuesday after 2½ weeks and 25 witnesses. 
The defense said it planned to call up to six witnesses, including possibly Bonds him­self, in a presentation that lawyers projected will start and end Wednesday. If that schedule holds up, closing arguments would take place Thursday morning and the case could go to the jury of eight women and four men later in the day. 
Bonds, Major League Baseball’s season and career home run leader, is accused of 
four counts of “The tape is highly were flaxseed making false relevant to [the oil and arthritic statem ent s cream. 
witness’s] credibility 
and one count While Catlin 
and therefore to the
of obstruction was testifying, of justice for question whether the prosecutors telling a submitted a
defendant knowingly
grand jury in motion to allow 
lied to the grand jury
2003 that he into evidence a didn’t know -about his use of recording of a ingly use per-15-minute con-
steroids” 
formance-versation in enhancing 2003 between drugs. Federal prosecutors Hoskins and Dr. 
lying when he said he received only vitamins from Anderson before the 2003 season. 
She gave prosecutors until Wednesday morning to respond in writing before finalizing her decisions. 
Dr. Don Catlin, former head 
of the UCLA Olympic Analytical Laboratory, was the last prosecution witness, and he testified about Bonds’ 2003 urine test for Major League Baseball’s anonymous survey, which was seized by federal agents the following year. At Catlin’s lab, it tested positive for Tetrahydrogestrinone (THG), a designer steroid known as “The Clear,” and a female fertility drug. Three UCLA lab employees preceded him to the stand. 
Bonds testified to the grand 
jury that Anderson had told him the sub ­stances he was giving Bonds 
Prosecutors ended their presentation with a 1 hour, 35 minute reading of portions of Bonds’ grand jury testimony. 
Dressed in a gray suit and striped silver tie, Bonds ’ alternately watched for the jurors’ reaction and followed in a three-ring binder as his testimony was read. One juror chewed on a pen and rested her head on a silver thermos. 
Jurors and Bonds’ mother laughed when Bonds ’ 7½ ­year-old answer to Assistant 
U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Nedrow was read back in which the baseball star said: “Yes. You are confusing. I’m telling you,” before addressing the grand jurors directly and telling them: “Is he confusing to you guys? I’m glad it’s not just me.” 
After the prosecution rest­ed, Bonds’ lawyers filed four motions with the court, the most significant of which asked U.S. District Judge Susan Illston to acquit Bonds now. They also filed motions to strike testimony by four players on how they received drugs from former Bonds’ trainer, Greg Anderson, testi­mony on the side effects of steroids and HGH, and part of the taped conversation between former Bonds busi­ness partner Steve Hoskins and Anderson. 
Illston said she was inclined to strike part of the Hoskins-Anderson conversation that was played for the jury and testimony from former Bonds’ girlfriend Kimberly Bell about his shrunken testicles, which the government says is a side effect from steroids use. She also wondered aloud whether the government had provided any evidence to back its count charging Bonds with Arthur Ting, 
Bonds’ orthope­
dic surgeon. 
But Illston quickly rejected the request. 
“It’s barely intelligible,” she said, adding: “Where you hear the name Barry, it’s not clear what is said.” She also said the material didn’t shed much light on the Bonds case. 
The recording, taken from a microcassette recorder, con­sists mostly of Hoskins, a friend of Bonds since child­hood, discussing media accounts of the 2003 govern­ment raid of Bay Area Laboratory Co -Operative (BALCO), which was the cen­ter of a steroid distribution ring in which Anderson was a participant. Ting responds “yeah” about a dozen times. When Hoskins tells Ting “the 
only reason narcotics was there” Ting immediately fin­ishes the sentence with “the drugs.” 
In the version of the tran­script created by the govern­ment, 126 passages over 10 pages are marked “(UI)” for “Unintelligible.” 
Hoskins testified he spoke with Ting about Bonds and steroids on approximately 50 occasions, while Ting said they had only one general discussion of steroids. While the tape was subpoenaed in 2005, Hoskins told federal agent Jeff Novitzky he found it at a storage facility on Sunday afternoon and turned it over to Novitzky at 10 p.m. that night. 
“The tape is highly relevant to Hoskins’ credibility and therefore to the question whether the defendant know­ingly lied to the grand jury about his use of steroids,” prosecutors said in their motion. “Admission of the tape is also necessary to rec­tify the jury’s misimpression that the tape does not exist.” 
Lead Bonds attorney Allen Ruby dismissed the recording as “the miracle tape discov­ered by Mr. Hoskins.” 
“Hoskins now claims that the recording has miracu ­lously surfaced as the govern­ment prepares to rest its case” defense lawyers wrote. They also said “Hoskins’ con­duct in making a secret recording of a private conver­sation was criminal under both California and federal law” and they asserted “if the recording is indeed of a Hoskins-Ting conversation, it was made in an attempt to extort Mr. Bonds after Bonds fired Hoskins in the spring of 2003.” 

Illston also ruled the defense may not challenge Hoskins’ credibility based on Lawyers said Illston had not Fridays, which were off-days the lack of a recording. told the sides whether the during the first two weeks of 
Bonds is charged with lying jury would deliberate on the trial. when he said he never received steroids from Anderson, never received human growth hormone from Anderson, received only vita­mins from Anderson prior to 2003 and allowed himself to be injected only by doctors. 
Ruby said a decision whether to have Bonds testify in the flesh was to be made Tuesday night. The other pos­sible defense witnesses he mentioned are former Bonds’ trainer Harvey Shields, Bonds’ lawyer Laura Enos, FBI agent Heather Young and IRS agent Erwin Rogers. The defense also may recall Hoskins to lay the foundation to introduce a recording he made of a conversation with Enos. 




Wednesday, April 6, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
PGA TOUR 


One year later, Woods has yet to break through 
new swing and figuring out a way Soroya Bacchus, a Los Angeles 
Associated Press 
to make more putts. It’s been his psychiatrist who specializes in 
AUGUSTA, Ga. — The circus is stock answer since he came out of addiction. “You have somebody largely gone and so, mostly, are seclusion here last year amid a cir-who was a sex addict who is trying the questions about his personal cus that included planes flying to stop that behavior and at the life. Tiger Woods returned to the overhead carrying banners taunt-same time find ways to learn new Masters this week without feeling ing him, tabloids stalking him, and behaviors. How do you focus and the urge to apologize for anything, so many reporters wanting to ask still try to play?” even the poor state of his game. him questions that tickets had to Woods faces the added burden 
A year ago, the chairman of be issued for his pre-tournament of having to do that while on pub-Augusta National lectured him press conference. lic display, at least for the six hours about his conduct and what it Woods resisted efforts to link his or so a day he is on the golf meant to the game of golf. On personal life with his bad golf, course. Fans have for the most Tuesday, he was welcomed back to deflecting questions with the ease part been respectful, though at the his 17th Masters as a four-time he used to hit his driver. U.S. Open last year one yelled at champion who means so much to Is he in a better place this year? Woods that his private life was the golf. He said he felt “almost ready to public’s business because Woods 
A lot has changed for Woods in tee it up Thursday.” himself had made it the public’s the year since he emerged from Has he grown personally even business. self-imposed exile following his sex while struggling with family and But while Woods tries to ration-scandal. What hasn’t changed is golf issues? alize things by focusing on his that some of his play has been He barely budged. “As far as swing as the root of all his prob-almost as embarrassing as the being a better person, I try to do lems, there is no doubt his issues revelations about his personal life. that each and every day,” Woods run deep in the game he once 
The man who once wowed fans said. “That will and always will be dominated. 
with booming drives and precision the case.” No. 1 in the world for 90 percent irons now struggles to keep up Famously controlling even of his career, he’s now seventh and with his playing partners. The before the scandal, Woods sig-fading fast. The Masters starts player who never used to miss a 6-naled early in his comeback he Thursday and, while he’s still one footer now can only shake his has no intention of answering any-of the betting favorites, those odds head as the putts don’t come near thing that doesn’t have to do with are based on memories from the hole. golf or the state of his game. another time. 

Woods says it’s nothing more That leaves others to speculate, Fellow competitor Ian Poulter than finding his way through a and there’s no lack of theories said Monday he doubted Woods new swing change. Others who about what is wrong. Amateur would be able to finish in the top know something about human psychologists debating the issue in five this week, much less win, a failings believe it may go a lot bars might think it’s as simple as a comment that Woods didn’t take Just how much that plays into a for his first major title, and adding deeper than fairways and greens. loss of confidence in his swing or particularly well. wayward drive into the trees or a another green jacket this week 
“He’s got experience coming the lack of a steady female com-“Well, Poulter is always right, three-putt at a critical moment would not only make a statement back from technical problems, but panion, but the professionals have isn’t he?” Woods said sarcastically. only Woods knows — though most that he’s back but give a badly he doesn’t have experience com-other ideas. Still, players who once used to experts say he is probably in needed boost to one of the greatest ing back from shame,” said “This has nothing to with his fear him now offer him consoling denial about it. But almost every players ever. Sharon Chirban, a Harvard sports swing,” Chirban said. “He’s an words as he finishes off another top player has his own psycholo-The same people who say he psychologist who coaches athletes emotional work in progress and bad round. Fans who once gist at tournaments trying to get has a long recovery ahead also say in her private practice. “Until the the strategies he’s used before are screamed his name and roared at him to clear his mind and concen-not to sell him short. This is Tiger shame is managed, he will never not going to fix his failings now. his shots now offer little but sym-trate on the moment, and for Woods, after all, who for years come back to the level of play he You fix it by continuing to work on pathetic applause. Woods that task is magnified by was probably the most mentally had before.” understanding what led him to the He seems confused. He appears the issues he has faced. focused athlete around. 
Just what is going on in Woods’ behavior that caused shame and lost. And while there were recent “Will he come back? Probably, private life is mostly a matter of that’s an ongoing process.” “He fell back to earth and not reports — labeled as unfounded but it takes time from this hugely conjecture, though some things Woods spent weeks in a rehab only do the other players see him by those close to Woods — that he traumatic situation,” Steinberg are obviously different since he center in Mississippi following the as human now, but he sees himself had a new girlfriend, having some-said. “My guess is that he is going surprised many by finishing fourth accident that exposed his life of subconsciously as human,” said one new may not be the path to win some more tournaments, at the Masters last year in his first kinky sex with a string of mistress-Gregg Steinberg, a professor of Woods wants to go down right perhaps quite a few more.” tournament since the scandal. He’s es, ostensibly to deal with issues of sports psychology at Austin Peay now. Woods himself said Tuesday he divorced now with two young chil-sex addiction. But experts say State University who has worked “Being a sex addict means you believes he will still win at least dren and is preparing to move into even intensive therapy can’t solve with pro golfers. “Before he almost need to be sober from sex,” five more majors to break the a new mansion — complete with a deep-rooted emotional issues saw himself as superhuman but Bacchus said. “Having a relation-record of 18 held by Jack short game course — near where immediately, and it isn’t known he’s had a lot of emotional distress ship now may not be a good idea.” Nicklaus. The world, Woods insist-his ex-wife recently bought a new whether Woods continues to work in his life that has changed that. In What would be a good idea for ed, has not seen the best of him home herself. with therapists as he continues to a way, he’s suffering from post-Woods is winning again, and the yet. 
What is going on in his golf work on his game. traumatic stress disorder in the Masters is a tournament he feels Hard to believe, considering how game seems just as murky, though “It’s an underlying psychological way he can’t control his emotions he can win every time he tees it great Woods once was. Then Woods insisted again Tuesday that issue and he’s trying to find ways — and he was a genius in control-up. He blew away the field win-again, it’s hard to figure out what his only problems are refining his to cope with it. It’s hard,” said ling his emotions.” ning here by 12 strokes in 1997 to believe about Woods anymore. 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 



Butler’s future still bright despite championship loss 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Butler spent a whole year plotting its Hollywood ending. 
The Bulldogs expected to play for a national championship. They expected to bring home the trophy that eluded them last season. And they expected to achieve all that despite their midseason stumbles. 
Now, after a second straight title game loss, the Bulldogs will have to settle for being the gold stan­dard for the so-called mid-majors. 
“(Butler coach) Brad (Stevens) has done an incredible job,” Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun said after winning his third nation­al title Monday night. “Their kids compete. They run their offense full speed. They were a magnifi­cent opponent.” 
Eleven other tourney foes over the last two seasons know exactly what Calhoun means. 
The Bulldogs’ list of victims over the past two postseasons includes Florida of the Southeastern Conference, Kansas State of the Big 12, Wisconsin and Michigan State of the Big Ten and Syracuse of Calhoun’s own Big East. 
But for the second straight April, Butler’s players and coaches went home dejected. 
The Bulldogs’ first loss in two months, ending a 14-game win­ning streak, puts them on the short list of back-to-back national run-ner-ups. The others: Ohio State with Jerry Lucas in 1961-62, Houston with Phi Slamma Jamma in 1983-84 and Michigan with the Fab Five in 1992-93. 
And while Monday night’s title game will go down as one of the ugliest in history because of Butler’s record-low field goal per­centage (18.8), the team has already won over college basket­ball fans by proving their run to the 2010 championship game was no fluke. 
Along they way, the Bulldogs staved off elimination in the seem­ingly impossible situations. 
There was Matt Howard’s buzzer-beater over Old Dominion and the wacky finish against Pittsburgh. Shelvin Mack and Howard helped the Bulldogs sur­vive Wisconsin’s late scoring flurry, and freshmen Khyle Marshall and Chrishawn Hopkins delivered the big plays to force overtime against the Gators. 
Then came the showdown with Virginia Commonwealth and, final­ly, the breakdown against UConn. 
“It’s really hard to put that into words right now ‘cause, we want­ed a little bit more,” Howard, the senior, said after Monday’s loss. “Maybe at some point I can look back and be proud of what this group has accomplished.” 
The greatest tribute to Howard, one of the best players in school history, would be continuing the success. 
Butler will lose five seniors who took the program to unprecedent­ed heights by teaching their team­mates how to win — and represent the school — The Butler Way. 
“They’re just good guys. People at Butler really like ‘em, not because they’re basketball players, because they’re just good guys,” said Stevens, the Bulldogs coach. 
Don’t count out the Bulldogs (28­
10) next year, either. 
If shooting guard Shelvin Mack returns, as expected, he and 6­foot-11 Andrew Smith will form a strong foundation on which to build. Point guard Ronald Nored, who started in 2009 and 2010, will likely reclaim his starting job. Three-point specialist Chase Stigall also will be back. 
The Bulldogs will likely put Marshall and Hopkins in the rota­tion, too, and Stevens will have more size and more depth with 6-7 Garrett Butcher and 6-9 Erik Fromm. 
Perhaps the most important return would be Stevens. He’s led the Bulldogs to four straight Horizon League regular-season titles, four straight tourney appear­ances and consecutive title games. The 34-year-old coach is 11-4 all-time in tourney play, and with his stock rising rapidly, he doesn’t appear to be in any hurry to leave. 
“You hear people say this all the time, that the grass is greener somewhere else,” Stevens said Sunday. “I think we recognize the grass is very green at Butler. I’ve said this many times. We’re happy.” 
With a deep, experienced core in place, Stevens and a little luck, who knows, maybe they’ll get another chance to finally deliver that storybook ending. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 6, 2011 
MLB 

Tape may not be admissable in Bonds case 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — A feder­al judge ruled jurors in the Barry Bonds trial may not hear a freshly rediscovered recording of two key witness­es — ridiculed by the defense as a “miracle tape” — as prosecutors rested their case against the home-run king Tuesday after 2½ weeks and 25 witnesses. 
The defense said it planned to call up to six witnesses, including possibly Bonds him­self, in a presentation that lawyers projected will start and end Wednesday. If that schedule holds up, closing arguments would take place Thursday morning and the case could go to the jury of eight women and four men later in the day. 
Bonds, Major League Baseball’s season and career home run leader, is accused of 
four counts of “The tape is highly were flaxseed making false relevantto [the oil and arthritic statem ent s cream. 
w itness’s]credibility 
and one count While Catlin 
and therefore to the 
of obstruction was testifying, of justice for question w hether the prosecutors telling a submitted a
defendantknow ingly 
grand jury in motion to allow 
lied to the grand jury 
2003 that he into evidence a didn’t know -abouthis use of recording of a ingly use per-15-minute con-
steroids” 
formance-versation in enhancing 2003 between drugs. Federal prosecutors Hoskins and Dr. 
lying when he said he received only vitamins from Anderson before the 2003 season. 
She gave prosecutors until Wednesday morning to respond in writing before finalizing her decisions. 
Dr. Don Catlin, former head 
of the UCLA Olympic Analytical Laboratory, was the last prosecution witness, and he testified about Bonds’ 2003 urine test for Major League Baseball’s anonymous survey, which was seized by federal agents the following year. At Catlin’s lab, it tested positive for Tetrahydrogestrinone (THG), a designer steroid known as “The Clear,” and a female fertility drug. Three UCLA lab employees preceded him to the stand. 
Bonds testified to the grand 
jury that Anderson had told him the sub ­stances he was giving Bonds 
Prosecutors ended their presentation with a 1 hour, 35 minute reading of portions of Bonds’ grand jury testimony. 
Dressed in a gray suit and striped silver tie, Bonds ’ alternately watched for the jurors’ reaction and followed in a three-ring binder as his testimony was read. One juror chewed on a pen and rested her head on a silver thermos. 
Jurors and Bonds’ mother laughed when Bonds ’ 7½ ­year-old answer to Assistant 
U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Nedrow was read back in which the baseball star said: “Yes. You are confusing. I’m telling you,” before addressing the grand jurors directly and telling them: “Is he confusing to you guys? I’m glad it’s not just me.” 
After the prosecution rest­ed, Bonds’ lawyers filed four motions with the court, the most significant of which asked U.S. District Judge Susan Illston to acquit Bonds now. They also filed motions to strike testimony by four players on how they received drugs from former Bonds’ trainer, Greg Anderson, testi­mony on the side effects of steroids and HGH, and part of the taped conversation between former Bonds busi­ness partner Steve Hoskins and Anderson. 
Illston said she was inclined to strike part of the Hoskins-Anderson conversation that was played for the jury and testimony from former Bonds’ girlfriend Kimberly Bell about his shrunken testicles, which the government says is a side effect from steroids use. She also wondered aloud whether the government had provided any evidence to back its count charging Bonds with Arthur Ting, 
Bonds’ orthope­
dic surgeon. 
But Illston quickly rejected the request. 
“It’s barely intelligible,” she said, adding: “Where you hear the name Barry, it’s not clear what is said.” She also said the material didn’t shed much light on the Bonds case. 
The recording, taken from a microcassette recorder, con­sists mostly of Hoskins, a friend of Bonds since child­hood, discussing media accounts of the 2003 govern­ment raid of Bay Area Laboratory Co -Operative (BALCO), which was the cen­ter of a steroid distribution ring in which Anderson was a participant. Ting responds “yeah” about a dozen times. When Hoskins tells Ting “the 
only reason narcotics was there” Ting immediately fin­ishes the sentence with “the drugs.” 
In the version of the tran­script created by the govern­ment, 126 passages over 10 pages are marked “(UI)” for “Unintelligible.” 
Hoskins testified he spoke with Ting about Bonds and steroids on approximately 50 occasions, while Ting said they had only one general discussion of steroids. While the tape was subpoenaed in 2005, Hoskins told federal agent Jeff Novitzky he found it at a storage facility on Sunday afternoon and turned it over to Novitzky at 10 p.m. that night. 
“The tape is highly relevant to Hoskins’ credibility and therefore to the question whether the defendant know­ingly lied to the grand jury about his use of steroids,” prosecutors said in their motion. “Admission of the tape is also necessary to rec­tify the jury’s misimpression that the tape does not exist.” 
Lead Bonds attorney Allen Ruby dismissed the recording as “the miracle tape discov­ered by Mr. Hoskins.” 
“Hoskins now claims that the recording has miracu ­lously surfaced as the govern­ment prepares to rest its case” defense lawyers wrote. They also said “Hoskins’ con­duct in making a secret recording of a private conver­sation was criminal under both California and federal law” and they asserted “if the recording is indeed of a Hoskins-Ting conversation, it was made in an attempt to extort Mr. Bonds after Bonds fired Hoskins in the spring of 2003.” 

Illston also ruled the defense may not challenge Hoskins’ credibility based on Lawyers said Illston had not Fridays, which were off-days the lack of a recording. told the sides whether the during the first two weeks of 
Bonds is charged with lying jury would deliberate on the trial. when he said he never received steroids from Anderson, never received human growth hormone from Anderson, received only vita­mins from Anderson prior to 2003 and allowed himself to be injected only by doctors. 
Ruby said a decision whether to have Bonds testify in the flesh was to be made Tuesday night. The other pos­sible defense witnesses he mentioned are former Bonds’ trainer Harvey Shields, Bonds’ lawyer Laura Enos, FBI agent Heather Young and IRS agent Erwin Rogers. The defense also may recall Hoskins to lay the foundation to introduce a recording he made of a conversation with Enos. 




Wednesday, April 6, 2011 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 6, 2011 

PGA TOUR 

Mickelson emerges as favorite at Augusta 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. — He is the talk of the Masters, and for good rea­son. No other player can top his record at Augusta National over the last decade, with three green jackets, eight finishes in the top five and a signature moment just about every year. 
That guy used to be Tiger Woods. 
Now it’s Phil Mickelson. 
It goes beyond Mickelson being the defending champion, listed for the first time as the betting favorite from London to Las Vegas, and at No. 3 in the world being the highest-ranked American for the first time in his career. 
Just listen to some of the play­ers. 
“It seems that everyone has pretty much got Mickelson in the green jacket Sunday evening and there’s not much use in turning up at this point,” U.S. Open champion Graeme McDowell said with a small measure of sar­casm. “He’s a great player around Augusta, and if you finish ahead of him, you’ve got a decent chance.” 
PGA champion Martin Kaymer, ranked No. 1 in the world, was asked who is the more dominant player at the Masters. 
“I think Phil,” he replied. 
And here’s what one player had to say about Woods, a four-time Masters champion. 
“I don’t think he’ll finish in the top five,” Ian Poulter said. “The shots he was hitting at Doral, they were very inconsistent. You can’t hit shots like that on this golf course and get away with it. I don’t think you want to rely on your short game that much around this place.” 
Woods hasn’t been chopping it up at Augusta. He also has three wins over the last 10 years, and that doesn’t include his record 12-shot victory as a 21-year-old in 1997. He was the runner-up in consecutive years, and his tie for fourth a year ago was impressive considering it was his first com­petition in five months following a humiliating sex scandal. 
What makes Mickelson stand out are the 18 birdies he made on the weekend at the Houston Open to win by three shots, his first victory since the Masters last year. 
“I felt like that golf was in me this year, but I haven’t been get­ting it out,” Mickelson said. “I haven’t had the same type of mental focus throughout the round that I expect. So to be able to have that type of performance heading into here feels very good. Reminds me a lot of 2006, when I was able to put it togeth­er the week before and carry the momentum through.” 
Woods doesn’t have any momentum. 
He now has gone 17 months since he last won at the Australian Masters, just 12 days before his car crashed into a fire hydrant and his life unraveled. He really hasn’t been close except for the Chevron World Challenge at the end of last year when he blew a four-shot lead in the final round and lost to McDowell in the playoff. 
He sounded as confident as ever Tuesday, answering ques­tions about his chances with a pursed smile and “Mmm­hmmm.” Asked if fans had seen his best golf, Woods replied, “No.” 
“I believe in myself,” he said. “There’s nothing wrong with believing in myself. God, I hope you guys feel the same way about yourselves. That’s the whole idea, that you can always become better.” 
As for the Poulter comments? 
“Well, Poulter is always right, isn’t he?” Woods said. “My whole idea is to try to win the golf tour­nament, and that’s what I’m try­ing to do. My whole idea is to prepare. I’ve prepared all year to peak four times a year, and that has not changed.” 
There was a real storm that blew through Augusta overnight, toppling trees and power lines across town. The gates to Augusta opened 45 minutes late to give workers a chance to clean the course of debris. 
Mickelson worked out on the range with Butch Harmon, then headed home to rest. He skipped a final practice round, feeling as the rest of the week. That figures though the conditions wouldn’t to make Augusta National even help him much. He’ll play faster than usual, putting a spe-Wednesday instead. cial premium on putting. That’s 

The wind pushed the clouds where Woods has been strug­away, and sunshine is forecast gling most. 


Wednesday, April 6, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
SOCCER 

Schalke stuns defending champion Inter Milan 
The result was all the more waved away after he went down 
Associated Press 
remarkable given that Schalke in the box, Cesar stopped Jose 
MILAN — Schalke swept to a was without key players Klaas Jan Manuel Jurado’s effort with his stunning 5-2 victory over defend-Huntelaar, Christoph Metzelder, feet and Samuel Eto’o had a goal ing champion Inter Milan in the Mario Gavranovic and Peer Kluge. chalked off for offside. first leg of their Champions Meanwhile the defensive prob-Inter grabbed its second in the League quarterfinal at San Siro on lems that Inter has displayed since 34th when Wesley Sneijder Tuesday. losing Walter Samuel to injury crossed to the unmarked 
Dejan Stankovic gave Inter the earlier in the season were eagerly Cambiasso, who headed the ball lead after 29 seconds with an seized upon by Schalke’s attack. across the face of goal for his fel­astonishing volley from around the Inter has now conceded eight low Argentine Milito to volley in halfway line, but Schalke leveled goals in just two games, having from close range. through Joel Matip. Diego Milito lost the city derby 3-0 to Milan at Again Schalke hit back. scored his first Champions League the weekend—when Chivu was Alexander Baumjohann played goal of the season to put Inter also sent off. Edu through on goal, Cesar saved back in front, but Edu scored the “We started well, but then it all his first shot after it was deflected first of his brace to bring Schalke went wrong in the second half,” off Chivu, but the Brazilian level before halftime. Inter captain Javier Zanetti said. reached the rebound first to 
Inter nearly retook the lead soon “Now we have to think about the scramble the ball into the net from after the break, but two goals in championship and get back our a tight angle. quick succession from Raul energy and get our heads straight. Just before halftime Farfan was Gonzalez and an own goal from We have to go forward with our booked for pulling back Zanetti Andrea Ranocchia put the heads held high because you and the Peruvian is now suspend-German side in total control. never know.” ed for the second leg. 
“We started off wanting to The game was less than half a “He will be missed that is clear,” attack and while it meant that minute old when Inter took the Rangnick said. “I wasn’t happy Inter was able to create chances, lead with a candidate for the com-with how he played in the first half we were also able to create petition’s goal of the season. tonight, but in the second half he chances ourselves,” Schalke coach Esteban Cambiasso played a was more attacking-minded. We Ralf Rangnick said. “I never ball over the Schalke defense have players who can replace him thought we would concede a goal toward Milito. Manuel Neuer though, as we saw against St. so soon, but I was pleased with the raced out of his area and headed Pauli and again tonight.” way we responded.” the ball clear, but it fell to Inter had two early chances at 

Inter defender Cristian Chivu Stankovic near the halfway line the start of the second half, with was sent off in the 62nd and with and the Serbian showed tremen-Milito shooting wide from the home side’s defense stretched dous technique to volley the ball Sneijder’s pass and shortly after to its limit, Edu added his second over the stricken goalkeeper and Neuer acrobatically stopping goal in the 75th minute to give into the net for his second Eto’o’s shot. worse for Inter when Chivu was Edu fired in his second of the night Schalke a big step toward the Champions League goal of the Farfan then set up former Real sent off for a second yellow card. to leave Inter needing four away semifinals. season. Madrid striker Raul to give “I don’t think it was anyone goals and a clean sheet in the sec­
“It was a great night for us as Schalke hit straight back though Schalke the lead. The three-time else’s fault,” Leonardo said. “He ond leg to hang onto its trophy. not everyone scores five goals and Raul twice went close with Champions League winner’s touch committed two fouls and deserved “Analyzing this defeat is dif­against the defending champion,” headers. took him clear of Ranocchia to to go. The problem though was he ficult because it started so well Raul said. “After a difficult start The equalizer came in the 17th score his 70th Champions League was frantic and tired. We needed with Stankovic’s goal after only my team showed its superiority. minute when Jefferson Farfan goal of all time. to stay calm and recoup our ener-a few seconds,” Leonardo said. 
“We wanted to get a good result picked out the unmarked Kyriakos Schalke doubled its lead in the gy.” “Schalke created seven or and this victory helps us get a foot Papadopoulos with a corner. Julio 57th shortly afterwards. Jurado Jurado then came close to mak-eight chances and scored five into the semifinals, but there’s still Cesar made a desperate low block raced down the right and tried to ing it five for his side when his low goals and punished us. At this 90 minutes left and we’ll have to to stop his header but Matip react-pick out Raul with a low cross, but shot rebounded back off the post. crucial moment we are with-play them at the same level. The ed first to sweep home the loose before the Spaniard could strike Farfan also hit the post after out a number of our best play-truth is I’d been here three times ball from close range. Ranocchia slid in and deflected the charging through a demoralized ers and that has led to big before with Madrid and never Both teams continued to press ball past the helpless Cesar. Inter defense and when the ball losses such as this one and the scored a goal, nor won.” and Milito had penalty appeals The night continued to get wasn’t cleared from the rebound one in the derby.” 

MLB 

Red Sox remain distant fifth behind powerhouse Orioles 
eighth before Indians closer Chris est to see the Red Sox play since 


Associated Press 
Perez made things interesting in 2000. 
CLEVELAND — Four games the ninth. He gave up a one-out Picked by many to win the AL into the season, the team that was single to Dustin Pedroia and a pennant in 2011 after adding All-supposed to win it all hasn’t won two-out walk to Kevin Youkilis Stars Crawford and Adrian at all. before retiring David Ortiz on a Gonzalez this winter, they were 
This isn’t what the Red Sox liner to left for his first save. swept in three straight games to expected. Beckett (0-1) couldn’t stop the open the season in Texas, where 
Josh Tomlin outpitched Boston’s Red Sox from falling to 0-4, their the Rangers clubbed 11 homers Josh Beckett, Cleveland came up worst start since opening 0-6 in and outscored Boston 26-11. with just enough timely hits and 1996. It’s still early, but unless Boston the Indians kept the Red Sox win-Still, the right-hander isn’t pan-gets things turned around soon, it less so far this season with a 3-1 icking. won’t be for very long. A trip to victory Tuesday night over the “There’s too much history Cleveland to face the youthful team many predicted would make here,” he said. “Everyone here Indians figured to help, but so far, it to the World Series this season. knows how to win. We’ll figure it it’s been more of the same. 
“It’s not a lot of fun,” manager out. We know what we’ve got to With a gametime temperature Terry Francona said. “But I don’t do.” of 42 degrees and dropping and a think anyone is going to feel sorry Orlando Cabrera, Jack stiff wind blowing in off Lake Erie, for us. We’ve got to play the game Hannahan and Carlos Santana it felt more like the Browns right and things will work out.” drove in runs for Cleveland. should be hosting the Patriots. 

Tomlin (1-0) allowed one run Indians manager Manny Acta Several of the Red Sox snatched and three hits in seven innings, said before the game that he did-up long parkas and oversized mit-spring training, to stop the skid. Travis Hafner, showing signs of taming a star-studded Boston n’t expect Tomlin, who went 6-4 tens from a large duffel bag to The right-hander was making being able to turn on pitches lineup that has yet to find its in 12 starts after being recalled combat the elements. his first start in Cleveland since again, rocketed a double off the groove. Francona tried juggling from the minors last July, to be “I’m putting one of these in my Game 5 of the 2007 ALCS, when right-field wall with one out and his batting order, moving Carl intimidated by Boston’s loaded locker right now,” Crawford said he saved Boston’s season by hold-scored on Orlando Cabrera’s sin-Crawford into the No. 2 hole, but lineup. Tomlin showed steel before stashing a coat in his lock-ing the Indians to five hits and gle. Beckett walked Austin Kearns it had little impact and Boston’s nerves in handling one of base-er. striking out 11 in eight innings. and struck out Matt LaPorta on a team average dropped to .186. ball’s best 1-through-9 lineups. It may be unseasonably cold The Red Sox rallied from a 3-1 nasty changeup before No. 9 hit­
“We need some kind of spark “Josh Tomlin was fantastic,” here, but the temperature back deficit and won the series in ter Hannahan grounded a run-right now,” said Crawford, signed Acta said. “He had their lefties off home is rising. seven, then added a World Series scoring single to center. as a free agent in December. “It’s balance and had full control of his The beloved “Sawx” are strug-crown. Cleveland made it 3-1 in the a little surprising, frustrating. four-pitch repertoire. He deserves gling. The Indians managed just one fifth when Asdrubal Cabrera dou­We’ve got high hopes for this sea-all the credit.” Boston fans were counting on hit off Beckett for three innings bled, moved up on a groundout son.” The crowd of 9,025, many of Beckett, the one-time ace who before getting three and scoring and scored on Carlos Santana’s 
Tony Sipp worked a perfect them Boston fans, was the small-struggled last season and again in two runs in the fourth. sacrifice fly. 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 6, 2011 
Texas 
continued from page 20 
said. “Day two everyone came out and it was our kind of weather and we had to show them how we performed in our weather.” 
Earlier this season, Boyce set a school record for a sin­gle round when she shot a 66 at the George Fox Invitational. Boyce struggled on the first day, but improved her score Tuesday to keep the Belles in the tournament, finishing with a 169 (94-75). Although the team captain did not play her best, her teammates lifted the team up. Matuszak and O’Connor tied for the individ­ual lead in the tournament. 
“Natalie played consistently. I know that the second day she was really focused and wanted to put a lower number on the board so we could come away with the win. She 
Slania 
continued from page 20 
Adam Norton and freshman right-hander Dan Slania] caught some bad luck,” Aoki said. “I don’t think they struggled, it was just more of Pittsburgh finding the holes in our defense that came back to get us.” 
The Irish seem to have a preference for close games, as two runs or fewer have decided their last 10. This could be good news for a struggling Western Michigan squad, currently on a four-game slide. Since sweeping Akron in the final weekend of March, the Broncos (13­
15) have only scored four runs in their four losses despite quality starts from their pitching staff — some­thing that lures Aoki to draw comparisons to his did that, and we were pretty excited,” Boyce said. “It’s good for Rosie because we know it’s been there for a while, and she finally let it come through.” 
Boyce said that Saint Mary’s team cohesion was the biggest factor in the Belles’ first place finish. 
“I don’t think it was more of a physical thing [as much as] it was that everyone was playing as a team. It’s some­thing I haven’t seen in a long time,” Boyce said. “It wasn’t about individuals’ perform­ances — it was about individ­uals’ performances helping the team win the whole thing. That will help us win it all at the end.” 
The Belles return to action Thursday, Apr. 14, when they travel to Marshall, Mich., to compete in the MIAA NCAA qualifier. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
own squad. 
“We have to pitch this game really well because they are going to,” Aoki said. “This is a matchup of two relatively matching teams. Our strength is pitch­ing, so is theirs, where our weakness thus far has been our hitting. They are the same way.” 
The Broncos offense is led by their cleanup hitter, junior third baseman Ryan McMillin who is batting .299 with two home runs, 16 RBI and six stolen bases. But pitching is where the Broncos thrive, as each starter has an earned run average below three. 
The Irish will face off against Western Michigan tonight at Frank Eck Stadium at 5:35 p.m. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
Winter 
continued from page 20 
innings, notching six strike­outs and allowing only three hits. 
The Irish had 10 total hits to the Badgers’ three. The Badgers also committed three errors. 
“Hitting is definitely our strong point,” said Winter. “We took advantage of the Badgers’ errors by taking extra bases.” 
Though they put on a strong showing against Wisconsin, the Irish know they need to keep their focus against more difficult upcoming opponents. 
“We always still need to improve,” said Clay. “We still can get better at the things we do well and we are really striving to do that.” 
The Irish are in action next at home Thursday in a dou­ble header against Butler. They will play again this weekend at Syracuse for a three-game conference series. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

SOCCER 

Real Madrid defeats Tottenham 

Associated Press 
MADRID — Emmanuel Adebayor headed a goal in each half as Real Madrid hammered 10 -man Tottenham 4-0 in the first leg of their Champions League quarterfinal on Tuesday. 
Adebayor beat Jermaine Jenas to the ball after just four minutes at the Santiago Bernabeu Stadium to guide a header past goalkeeper Heurelho Gomes and through the legs of Luka Modric on the line. 
Tottenham was left with 10 men from the 15th minute when Peter Crouch earned a second booking for a rash tackle. 
Adebayor added Madrid’s second by guiding Marcelo’s cross home in the 57th minute before late goals from Angel Di Maria and Cristiano Ronaldo ensured a comfort­able advantage ahead of next week’s return leg at White Hart Lane. 
“When I play against Spurs I always have a chance to score,” said Adebayor, a for­mer Arsenal striker who is on loan from Manchester City and who has scored 10 goals in as many games against Tottenham. 
“We just wanted to show that what happened Saturday was an accident,” he added, referring to Madrid’s 1-0 loss to Sporting Gijon — its first home defeat of the season and coach Jose Mourinho’s first loss on home soil in nine years. 
While Madrid responded firmly on Tuesday, Mourinho felt “sympathy ” for Tottenham after it had to battle back with a disadvan­tage. 
“I have experience of play­ing with 10 men in the Champions League and how difficult it is. You have to defend. And when you’re los­ing already and you have to attack it’s an impossible job,” said Mourinho, who remained on good course to becoming the first coach to win the European Cup with three different clubs. 
Ronaldo, Di Maria and Marcelo were rushed back from injury to start for Madrid, which showed enor­mous verve as it played in the last eight for the first time in seven years. 
“Independent of playing against 10, the team played well, ” Ronaldo said. “The first half was tough for us but in the second we improved a lot.” 
William Gallas passed a fit­ness test to anchor Tottenham’s back line with Gareth Bale starting on the left flank after recovering from a hamstring injury. Aaron Lennon was named in the starting 11, but Tottenham manager Harry Redknapp said he felt unwell after warmup and was replaced just before kickoff by Jenas. The speedy England winger’s absence was noted as Spurs’ attack disappeared behind Madrid’s second half barrage. 
“To get to halftime like we did, I thought we could hang in there and would have a chance. But then our legs ran out a bit,” Redknapp said. 
Tottenham’s first matchup against Madrid for 26 years started poorly as the north London club watched Ronaldo pepper its goal in the early stages before Di Maria ’s close shot was deflected for the corner from which Adebayor scored the opening goal. 
Crouch was booked twice for a pair of reckless tackles deep inside Madrid’s half — the England striker scything into Sergio Ramos in the eighth minute before later taking out Marcelo. 
“He shouldn ’t take that chance that he might get a red card, so I was disappoint­ed,” Redknapp said. “It was an uphill task after that, an impossible task.” 
Madrid kept up the pres­sure while Tottenham looked to strike on the break. Rafael Van der Vaart — playing against his former team for the first time — missed a chance from inside the area in the 28th minute before Bale surged past Ramos to reach a long ball, but his shot past Iker Casillas sliced into the side netting. 
Pepe took out Bale in the chase for a pass in the 36th minute for a yellow card that will see the Portugal defend­er miss the return leg. Madrid had four other play­ers within a booking of being sanctioned but Mourinho said that UEFA’s decision to sus­pend him earlier this season kept him from ordering those players to pick up bookings so they could be clean for the semfinals. 
“I’m the only coach in the world who has been sanc­tioned for doing this, ” Mourinho said. “For that rea­son, we didn’t do it.” 
Van der Vaart was replaced by striker Jermain Defoe but Spurs never came close to scoring after the restart as Madrid controlled and patiently tried to pick Spurs apart with Adebayor dou ­bling the advantage when left alone inside the box. 
Di Maria’s individual effort made it 3-0 in the 72nd as the Argentina forward moved clear from Benoit Assou -Ekotto before unleashing a curling shot from outside the area beyond Gomes into the top corner. 
Late substitute Kaka, returning from injury to play for the first time since Feb. 26, also made his mark as the Brazil playmaker spotted Ronaldo at the far side with a cross in the 82nd that the Portugal international volleyed low past Gomes inside the near post for his fifth of the competition. 


Wednesday, April 6, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


HENRI ARNOLD

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
JUMBLE
PLEASANDVILLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Wednesday, April 6, 2011 page 20 
BASEBALL 
Irish hoping to jump-start offense against visiting Broncos 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Exactly halfway through the season, the Irish should be able to pinpoint which games they could have won 
— and they would be able to if it weren’t for their main culprit, inconsistency. 
Hitting has been the main contributor to Notre Dame’s (11-14-1) struggles — the squad boasts only two hitters with batting averages above .300. Although the Irish bats are improving, hitting still remains their focus as the team has only scored more than five runs on three occa­sions this season. 
But in a three-game series in Pittsburgh this past week­end, the Irish bats came alive, averaging five runs per game. The offensive improve­ment was highlighted by an 8-6 comeback victory Sunday, avoiding a sweep against the Panthers (15-10). 
Trailing 6-2 in the seventh inning, the Irish posted a six-run outburst led by a three-run home run from freshman first baseman Trey Mancini. After finally seeing the timely hitting he has desired from his team, Irish coach Mik Aoki hopes it will catalyze a timely midseason run. 

Offense or bust 

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

Notre Dame sophomore catcher Joe Hudson watches his fyball in the Irish’s 3-2 win over Central Michigan on Mar. 29. 
“Some of the things that Meanwhile, Irish starting rally off of Notre Dame’s had been missing finally pitching has developed into a young relieving corps, nei­came through,” Aoki said. major strength for the team, ther pitcher earned a deci­“Throughout the course of led by seniors Brian Dupra sion. the weekend at critical junc-(2-2) and Cole Johnson (2-4). “It was a bit of a mixed bag tures, the quality of our at-The duo gave up only two this weekend because [Dupra bats was much better and runs this weekend in 13 and Johnson] pitched so well carried a greater sense of innings of combined work. while [sophomore reliever urgency that we had been However, due to a lack of searching for this year.” offense and a late -inning see SLANIA/page 18 
SMC GOLF 
Belles win Southwest invitational 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
In the face of adverse weath­er conditions, the Belles used consistency and teamwork to secure a first place finish in the Southwestern Invitational with a score of 650. Junior Natalie Matuszak and senior Rosie O’Connor tied for medalist in the tournament as they both shot 161 for the two days. 
Heading into the match, the Belles knew that they would need strong performances to compete against a talented field. 
“They said we had to produce something really good to win, and everyone came in with low numbers,” senior Mary Kate Boyce said. “We were pretty excited to do that against a tough field.” 
The Belles were in first place after day one, despite the windy weather in Georgetown, Texas. When the wind subsided on day two of the tournament, Saint Mary’s capitalized on the favorable conditions. 
“Monday there was a lot of wind. Basically it was survival, like my coach [Mark Hamilton] said. Even the teams from Texas were saying how windy it was. I struggled a lot,” Boyce 
see TEXAS/page 18 
SMC TENNIS 
Saint Mary’s to face conference foe Olivet 
By MATTHEW UNGER 
Sports Writer 
The Belles will look to extend their winning streak to three games against MIAA conference foe Olivet College at the Saint Mary’s tennis courts at 4 p.m. Wednesday. 
Saint Mary’s (7-5, 1-1) is coming off a dominating weekend sweep of Trine College and North Central College, winning by margins of 9-0 and 8-1 respectively. 
Meanwhile, Olivet (8-4, 1-2) ended its five match winning streak in a 5-4 loss to Adrian College Sunday. 
For the singles’ competi­tion, the Belles’ number two player, senior Jessica Kosinski, will face the Comets’ number two, Giana Guerra, who holds an 8-2 record in singles play. 
“[Guerra] is very tricky to play against,” Saint Mary’s coach Dale Campbell said. “She hits a lot of spin and is a fighter.” 
Meanwhile, the Belles’ number one singles player, senior Jillian Hurley, victori­ous in six of her last seven matches, will face the Comets’ Caitlin LaValley, who holds an 8-4 record. 
In doubles play, Saint Mary’s vastly improved this weekend, going a perfect 6-0 in matches. 
“We played very well [in doubles] and are starting to put some things together,” Campbell said. “However, we still want to be much better against some of the stronger foes in our conference.” 
Campbell was especially impressed with the doubles tandem of freshman Mary Catherine Faller and Kosinski, who went a com­bined 16-1 in sets in their two weekend victories. 
Following the Olivet match, the Belles will leave for three road matches in four days starting Friday. 
Contact Matthew Unger at munger3@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish rout Wisconsin at home 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 

The Irish dominated Wisconsin Tuesday with a 9-1 rout, improving their record to 22-7. 
“Wisconsin (17-14) wasn’t one of the toughest competi­tors we’ve faced,” senior catcher Alexia Clay said, “but they came out fighting and did small things well, like base running which kept us on our toes.” 
Going into the game the Irish were eager to keep their winning streak alive. 
“Coming off a few great team wins, we just wanted to keep the momentum going,” said junior outfielder Alexa Maldonado, “We came out hitting the ball hard and were able to produce runs.” 
The game started off with a few slow innings, with Wisconsin scoring first. Senior infielder Heather Johnson hit in the first Irish run in the third inning, adding to her 12-game hitting streak. 
“Our hitting definitely put us back in the game and got the momentum going again,” said freshman pitcher Laura Winter. 
The Irish stepped it up in the top of the fifth. An infield error by the Badgers allowed an unearned run to score for Notre Dame. Soon after, jun­ior infielder Dani Miller hit a three-run homer, followed by consecutive triples from sen-ior infielder Katie Fleury and sophomore catcher Amy Buntin, which made the score 6-1 at the end of the fifth. 

Clay hit a sacrifice fly in the sixth to bring the score to 7­1, which was followed by the final two runs of the game. 
Winter pitched the first five 
see WINTER/page 18 

Wednesday, April 6, 2011 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Unsung players develop into vital contributors 

By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 

INDIANAPOLIS — Texas A&M had two players leading their team in the national champi­onship game. The Irish had five. 
Five supreme leaders who fought their hearts out for an entire season to get to the final game, and lose. Five leaders who fought the odds and tried to give Irish coach Muffet McGraw another national title. Five leaders who gave it all they had, but it wasn’t enough. Five leaders whose numbers don’t show how many pieces their hearts broke into. 
McGraw said it all in a few simple words as her players wiped at red eyes next to her during the postgame press con­ference: “What an incredible season.” 
No one expected the young Notre Dame team to ever make it past the Big East tournament, and not even far in that, either. Some thought sophomore guard Skylar Diggins was a player to watch, but she was still learn­ing to lead a rebuilding squad. 
Lost were junior guard Natalie Novosel and senior for­ward Devereaux Peters, who never had a chance to prove themselves, just like Diggins hadn’t had a chance to grow into the leader she would later become. In the fall, McGraw herself never imagined making the trip to Indianapolis in April 
— that is, until her team came back from a season-ending loss to Oklahoma driven to succeed. 
“You lose that last game, and you just get motivated to come back and work a little bit hard­er and make sure it doesn’t happen again,” McGraw said. 
Most motivated of all was Diggins, the impressive guard who was left alone to lead this point this year. Although she struggled to gain control at times in the beginning and adjust to her teammates look-
NOTES 
McGraw reaches third Final Four 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
INDIANAPOLIS — The 2011 season marked the third time Irish coach Muffet McGraw has coached a Notre Dame team to the Final Four. Only seven coach­es have made more appearances in the national semifinals. With the exception of senior forward Becca Bruszewski, Notre Dame returns all of its starters next sea­son in the campaign for a fourth appearance. 
“We’ve got a young team, so we’ve got a lot of people with a lot of experience coming back,” Mcgraw said. “Becca is a leader for us. We’re going to miss her — the intangible part of her game.” 
Home cooking 
Notre Dame is just the third school in NCAA history to play the championship game in its home state. Stanford defeated Western Kentucky 78-62 in 1992, and USC defeated Tennessee 72-61 in their home state of California. 
“Thank you to Indianapolis for giving us a show,” Aggies coach Gary Blair said. “The hospitality was great.” 
Peters shoots lights-out 
Capping her first full season in an Irish uniform, senior forward Devereaux Peters finished the game with an 80 percent field goal percentage (8-10). The mark is the third-best field goal per­centage in a national title game and is tied for sixth-best in a Final Four game. 
McGraw said Peters’ effort on the national stage should serve as a springboard heading into next season, her final year of eligibili­ty. 
“She really settled into her game, did a nice job on the boards,” McGraw said. “I thought she was effective around the bas­ket. She scored well. She rebounded well. She defended pretty well. Overall, I thought [the performance was] kind of a nice momentum builder for her going into next year.” 
First time’s the charm 
Earning its first national title in program history in its first appearance in the Final Four, Texas A&M became the seventh No. 2-seed to win the NCAA tour­ing to her guidance on the court, McGraw and the nation were granted front row seats to the Skylar Diggins Skills Show by the end. 
“She really stepped up her game, I thought, in the NCAA tournament, particularly as the games went on,” McGraw said. “I think she came into this sea­son as somebody that people were aware of. And I think she really gave herself a big shot of credibility coming into next year as one of the top players in the Big East and one of the top players in the country.” 
Diggins’ leadership shows in her stats, with 28 points in the Final Four win over Connecticut and 23 in the national champi­onship and in the accolades she’s earned over the season: being named to the Naismith list, as the MVP of Notre Dame’s regional competition and to the All-American team. But stats and awards aren’t everything. 
Rather than showing on the court, Diggins’ most leader-like moment may have been at the end of the game when she walked off the floor at the buzzer to be with her team­mates. 
“After the buzzer went off, they’re celebrating and things like that,” Diggins said. “I just wanted to get off for my team and get ready to talk to every­body and finish it out with the huddle.” 
McGraw saw Diggins’ game in a more positive light. 
“Just a fabulous end to her season,” McGraw said. “I think she really, really figured out how she could score and how she could lead us.” 
Peters was another Irish leader McGraw never was able to see come into fruition in pre­vious seasons after suffering multiple knee injuries. McGraw certainly could never have pre­dicted that Peters would come out of Tuesday’s title game as Notre Dame’s stats star with another double-double: 21 points and 11 rebounds. 
“I thought she was effective around the basket,” McGraw said of Peters’ night. “Overall, I thought kind of a nice momen­tum builder for her going into next year.” 
Peters entered the season never having had a chance to fully show what she was capa­ble of, but she certainly did in 2010-2011, earning herself a spot on the All-Big East First Team, the Big East Defensive Player of the year award and All-America finalist honors. 
If anyone knows where Peters’ drive came from, it’s Novosel, Peters’ partner in growing into essential Irish players this season. Both went from overlooked names on the roster to essential cogs in the machine that started every game. 
Novosel scored in double fig­ures a team-high 33 times this year, including 14 points in the title game and a game-high 27 points against Gonzaga Dec. 29. 
“Dev and I worked so hard over the summer, and it showed in the fall,” Novosel said. “My success this year came from just being aggressive. When coach told me, you know, they can’t contain you, they can’t contain you, I just need you to take it to the basket. That was my success this year, just creat­ing that. “ 
Although the loss hurts right now and there are a number of broken Irish hearts, Novosel said the loss will only be a moti­vating factor for next year. 
“In a way it does, I think it hurts more right now. I think it’s going to be in the back of our minds throughout the entire summer, all preseason, and it’s going to be a motivating factor because we were this close to that goal and we fell short,” she said. “When it comes down to it, it’s all about using this as motivation and progression.” 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
nament. The Aggies became the first team since Baylor in 2005 to win the national championship in its first Final Four appearance. The Aggies’ 33 wins is the highest mark in program history. 
“Aggies all over the nation – I got letters from Afghanistan, Iraq 
— 
just telling me how people were getting up at four o’clock in the morning watching,” Blair said. “We got soldiers fighting in a lot of different places right now 

— 
they are fighting for us to be able to play this little game of basketball … But women’s bas­ketball needed this game perhaps more than Texas A&M or Notre Dame needed it.” 


Blair’s breakthrough 
Tuesday’s win moved Blair to a 13-5 all-time record in the NCAA tournament, but the victory marked his first national champi­onship as a head coach. Blair served as an assistant coach on national champion Louisiana Tech in 1982, the year of the first NCAA Women’s Division I Basketball Championships. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER Wednesday, April 6, 2011 


SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 
Just short 
After taking down perennial powerhouses Tennessee and 
Connecticut in the Elite Eight and Final Four, respectively, second-seeded Notre Dame fell just short of its national-title dreams when it lost 76-70 to Texas A&M Tuesday in 

Indianapolis. SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 



SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 
SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer
SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 





