the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s welcome freshmen 
Class of 2015 excels in academics, service outside the classroom 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
“When I’m a teenager, my big plans are to be smart and to go to Notre Dame.” 
A fourth-grade student in an elementary school classroom wrote those words in an essay more than eight years ago. This past spring, her mother sent her fourth-grade paper to the Office of Admissions as they consid­ered her application. 
The Office of Admissions said this girl will join over 2,000 freshmen and 154 transfer and readmitted students this week­end at Notre Dame for the fall semester. As one of many incoming students who dreamt of Notre Dame since childhood, her story showed that with a lot of hard work and a little help from mom’s scrapbook, getting 
see ND/page 5 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 


Incoming class profile boasts strong grades, unique achievements 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
A Unites States figure skater, a Taekwondo black belt, a Civil War re-enactor, and an award-winning novelist all share very different interests, but are now tied by a common bond. 
These women are part of the 396 students that make up the Class of 2015 at Saint Mary’s this fall, said Vice President of Enrollment Management Mona Bowe. 
“It’s a great class. Academically, it’s a little bit stronger than the last three classes, but very similar, and still exactly the kind of students that we want coming to Saint Mary’s,” Bowe said. 
Director of Admissions Kristen McAndrew said her staff reviewed 1,453 applica­
see SMC/page 6 



Freshmen arrive on campus 

By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Vans loaded with boxes and furniture clogged campus entrances Friday morning, but the air buzzed with excitement as the freshmen class arrived at Notre Dame. 
Freshmen Maggie McGonigle and Allie Anderson met for the first time as the roommates moved into their Lewis Hall room. 
“I’m most excited about fig­uring out about why everyone is so excited when they hear that you go here,” Anderson said. “The fact that when you see someone from Notre Dame you want to go up and talk to them, why everyone loves the school so much. I just want to know when I’ll become like that.” 
Anderson, a Sacramento, Calif. native, said although she does not have a family tie with the University, she really liked the feeling of community on campus. 
“I went to a small [high] school, and it’s really nice knowing a lot of people,” Anderson said. “Everyone’s very family-orientated [here]. The football was a big part of it. I like spectator sports.” 
McGonigle, from Minnetonka, 
see FRESHMENpage 5 

Four new rectors join campus residence life 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
Incoming freshmen are not the only new residents on campus this semester as four new rectors prepare to lead Duncan, Fisher, Howard and Lyons Halls in the fall. 
Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Tom Doyle said the biggest factors Notre Dame considers when choosing a new rector include past lead­ership experience, experience with college-age students and an overall love of learning. 
“This is an educational institution [so] we want peo­ple who are intrigued and motivated by ideas,” he said. “We look for people who are sort of intellectually engaged and curious.” 
Residence halls are the heart of the Notre Dame experience, Doyle said, so a rector should be prepared to remain in the position for a number of years — long enough to welcome an incom­ing freshman class and then see that same class graduate. 
Terence Fitzgibbons, the new rector for Duncan Hall, returns to Notre Dame from his most recent position as Overseas Lay Minister for the Congregation of Holy Cross in Jinja, Uganda. In Uganda, he served as a teacher at an undergraduate Catholic semi­nary and a primary school. 
He said he looks forward to helping Duncan take the next step in building dorm tradi­tions and community. 
“Duncan Hall no longer has the excuse that ‘we’re a new dorm.’ Our senior class is the first class of four-year Highlanders,” he said. “My goal is to take Duncan to the next level of our development. We want to lay stronger connections from our academic lives to our social lives to our liturgical lives.” 
The new rector said he had one other essential goal: “I’d like to dominate all men’s interhall sports.” 
Fitzgibbons earned a bache­lor’s degree in 2004 in politi­cal science and Arabic studies from Notre Dame. He was a resident advisor in Alumni 
see RECTORS/page 6 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER New venues at Eddy Street page 10  Viewpoint page 11  Freshman year checklist page 14  Football: Defense builds swagger page 28 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Saturday, August 20, 2011 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT ARE YOU MOST LOOKING FORWARD TO FRES MAN YEAR? 






Nick Deason  Erin Foley  Jade Barber  Sami Zuba  Ian White  Joe Corsaro  
freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  
Keough  Welsh Family  Breen Phillips  Breen Phillips  Zahm  Zahm  
“Academics, sports and meeting people.”  “Meeting new people, getting to know the campus and having fun.”  “Getting in shape running track.”  “Doing choir and being a part of that family like [in] high school.”  “Not having my dad talk sarcastically about everything I say.”  “Football games.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
ORIENTATION WEEKEND 

Today Tonight SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 




Saturday, August 20, 2011 The Observer . NEWS page 5 
moved into Sorin College Friday, 
he said the University’s Catholic 

Freshmen 
continued from page 1 
Minn., said she chose Notre Dame because she liked the campus vibe and because sever­al of her relatives were students here. 
Spencer Edman, a freshman in St. Edward’s Hall, said he chose Notre Dame because of the character and residence hall system also captured his inter­est. 
“I went to a summer program [near home] for six weeks last year, and the dorms were single-sex,” Tax said. “I’m kind of used to that, and we just really bond­ed. At night we would just hang out in the halls and talk about 
everything.” 
While the 
academic pres­ “After the weekend, I  incoming  stu­ 
tige and overall experience. “There were a lot of schools I  hope that they realize they can be themselves and be  dents said they were excited to start college, they were nerv­ 
went  to  that  comfortable with it,  ous about being  
were very strong academically, but Notre Dame had  whether that means playing sports on the  far from high school friends, trekking to class  
the whole pack­age,” he said. “Overall, it was a good choice for  quad or belting out ridiculous songs with their friends.”  in the cold South Bend winter and leaving their families.  
me.”  “I’m pretty far  
The Sioux Falls, S.D., native said he most looks forward to  Amy Jurvis commissioner Ryan Hall orientation  from home and everything I know,” Tax said. “I feel like it’s  
meeting  new  just nervousness  
people and gain- about  starting  

ing a different perspective on something new.” life. As the freshmen unloaded 
“South Dakota is pretty their cars and found their new insignificant on the scale. This is homes, older students on hall a bigger thing,” he said. “I’m orientation staff welcomed them excited to move in and see to campus. something different.” Junior Amy Jurvis, hall orien-
Interhall sports were a pull for tation commissioner for Ryan Willem Tax, a freshman from Hall, said she wants freshmen to Asheville, N.C., when he understand that their residence enrolled at Notre Dame. As Tax hall and the University as a whole are truly home for them. 

“After the weekend, I hope that they realize they can be themselves and be comfortable with it, whether that means playing sports on the quad or belting out ridiculous songs with their friends,” she said. 
Junior Luke Westby, hall ori­entation commissioner for Keenan Hall, said he hopes the freshmen in his dorm find a sense of belonging at the University and in Keenan. Orientation staff tries to give the incoming students a feel for the collective dorm personality, Westby said. Westby said. “Hopefully our simply know that they are where 
“We put a lot of effort into delivery over the coming days of they’ve always wanted to be.” choosing the people who truly all the events and talks we’ve represent the heart and soul of planned will give each freshman Contact Marisa Iati at Keenan Hall and Notre Dame,” that unique moment where they miati@nd.edu 

ND 
continued from page 1 
into Notre Dame could become a reality. 
Associate Vice President for Undergraduate Enrollment Don Bishop said the Class of 2015’s applicant pool was the largest in the University’s history. 
“We were more selective than ever before, without a doubt,” Bishop said. “But we were more on a mission. When we were looking at who was admitted, we looked at what Notre Dame cares about in addition to the brilliant academics. We looked at leadership, the desire to serve.” 
Director of Admissions Robert Mundy said the Class of 2015 was more academically talented than any previous freshman class. 
“We were just over 16,500 applications, which were about 2,000 larger than our previous pools,” Mundy said. “We get it every year that this new class is the best class ever. The exciting part is that now you can dig deeper … when you have these incredibly talented students aca­demically. Which ones among this group are the really great matches for Notre Dame?” 

The average member of the freshman class ranked in the top two percent of his or her high school class, Mundy said. Thirty incoming fresh­men earned per­tle better this year,” Mundy said. “We have such a great, unique message that it will resonate with students who might not have previously thought about Notre Dame. When it came application time, they might have [previously] eliminated Notre Dame. Fewer of those stu­dents did that this year.” 
Mundy said the admissions staff was only able to accept 
seven students 
from the wait 
fect scores on list. 
“Notre Dame is really
their SATs or Bishop said ACTs, and more starting to reach Notre Dame’s 
than half the higher levels in the rank among the class graduated top schools for 
ratings of individual
as valedictorian endow ment, or salutatorian. accomplishments. alumni giving 
“They are all And that is building a and graduation great. Now what rates increasing-
better sense that 
we want to do is ly marks the 
Notre Dame has
make sure they University as a are the right stu-become a top-10 more prestigious dents who will school. 
school.” 
take advantage of “Notre Dame is the great oppor-really starting to tunities here, but Don Bishop reach higher lev­also give back,” associate vice president els in the ratings Mundy said. of individual 
Undergraduate
“Those students accomplish ­
Enrollment
who participate ments,” Bishop in community said. “And that is service or leader-building a better ship will be as strong or stronger sense that Notre Dame has than in the past. As a group, we become a top-10 school.” have students who are more The University’s commitment engaged in life outside the class-to match all perceived financial room.” need for its students might be 
Mundy estimated the enrolled another draw for freshmen in Class of 2015 will total about difficult economic times, he said. 2,025 students. One-third of the “About half the students are enrolled class participated in on aid, and the average aid student government in high package is about $26,900,” school, according to statistics Bishop said. from the Office of Admissions. Whether a student dreamt of Ninety percent of the incoming Notre Dame from the beginning freshmen regularly volunteered of elementary school or discov­or performed service work in ered the University late in high their community. school, Bishop said he expected 
The Office of Admissions the Class of 2015 to quickly feel accepted 4,018 students for the at home in the Notre Dame fami­freshman class. While the ly. admissions process was more “Notre Dame is a very aspira­selective, Mundy said more tional college for many admitted students enrolled at Americans,” he said. “You get Notre Dame than expected. caught up in it.” About 51 percent of admits enrolled for the fall semester. Contact Megan Doyle at 
“Our communication got a lit-mdoyle11@nd.edu 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Saturday, August 20, 2011 

Rectors 
continued from page 1 
Hall during his senior year before serving in the Navy until 2008. Fitzgibbons then received a master’s degree from the University of Toronto in Near and Eastern Civilizations before his time in Uganda. 
Fr. Brad Metz, the new rector in Fisher Hall, is also a Notre Dame grad­uate. He holds a bachelor’s degree in theology in 1996 and a mas­ter’s degree in divinity in 2001. 
“I’m very excited to be here at Fisher Hall, he said. “I think it’s going to be a great year.” 
Since being ordained in 2002, Metz served as a hall direc­tor at the University of Portland, deacon and associate pastor of St. Joseph Parish in South Bend and associate pastor of an Oregon parish. 
Metz is the only new rector to hold a religious position. He lived at Moreau Seminary for the past year and is pur­suing a master’s degree in non -profit administration from Notre Dame. 
New Lyons Hall rector Meghan Brown comes to Notre Dame from the Dewey & LeBoeuf law firm in New York City, where she worked as a litigation and bankruptcy associate since 2007. 
Brown served as an assis­tant rector for two years in Howard Hall while attending law school at Notre Dame. 
“As an AR, my favorite part 
of the job was the casual, day-to-day interaction I had with my residents that, over time, developed into meaning-ful relationships,” Brown said. “I can’t wait to get to know my residents in Lyons and see what they have in store for me each day.” 


Brown earned her under­graduate degree in English from Princeton University. 
A “Triple Domer,” new Howard Hall rector Margaret Morgan is no stranger to cam­pus life at Notre Dame. She earned three degrees from the University 
—her undergrad­uate degree in theology in 2006, her mas ­ter’s degree in education in 2008 and her master’s degree in divinity in 2011. 
She was a resident assistant in Lewis Hall as a senior. 
“[Notre Dame] really has become my home,” she said. “Despite the fact that I have spent such a signifi ­cant por ­tion of my life here at ND, each phase or ‘round’ has meant something very differ­ent to me and has contributed greatly to my own personal formation and growth.” 
Whether the new rector is a priest, religious sister or a layperson, Doyle said a dorm’s leader must under­stand the meaning of Christian community. 
“Most of all, we look for people who are great Christian [and] Catholic role models,” he said. 
He said a rector’s life can be both challenging and reward­ing. 
“It’s not uncommon they’re the last ones in the dormitory to go to bed and the first ones to get up in the morning,” Doyle said. “They do it out of a sense of mission.” 


Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
tions this year. 
“[The Class of 2015 is] exactly the size of the student body that we were looking for coming in this fall,” McAndrew said. “It’s just what we want­ed.” 
As the freshman class moved into their dorms Thursday, College faculty and staff wel­comed the girls and helped them unload their belongings. Current students stood along the Avenue with signs that read, “Welcome home.” 
“As much as we are running around and carrying stuff, I’m having a blast,” Bowe said. 
Freshman Abigail Roggemann moved into LeMans Hall Thursday. Roggemann said Saint Mary’s felt like home since the moment she made her first trip to campus. 
“Once I visited, I pretty much knew that I wanted to come here,” Roggemann said. “It was just waiting to get accepted.” 
Freshman Erin Cisneros also felt an immediate connection with Saint Mary’s. 
“It just took one visit, and I thought, ‘That’s where I want to go,’” Cisneros said. 
According to the Office of Admissions, the application pool for the Class of 2015 was the largest in College history. 
Bowe partly attributed the increase in enrollment to the College’s efforts to make tuition more affordable to new students. 
“The College has made a commitment to trying to make 
the cost of attending Saint Mary’s afford­able to all stu­dents,” Bowe said. “Our budget for financial aid has increased, so we continue to raise money in endowed scholarship so we can contin­ue to help the neediest stu­dents.” 
The incoming class is also the the Office reported. 
This class also continues the deep family tradition of edu­cating strong women, Bowe said. Forty-seven incoming freshmen are daughters of College alumnae. 
The incoming freshmen also 
show a willingness to give back to the community, 
Bowe said. 
“There are amazing 
One student 
women in this class, raised $8,000 
and we know that in one year for a diabetes fund 
they’re going to make 
by riding her 
this place richer just 
bike 100 miles by bringing their through Montana.
experience to Saint 
Another volun­
Mary’s.” 
teered her time as a pallbearer Mona Bowe for the home­less, and 
vice president 
another provid-
Enrollment Management 
ed over 100 
most academically talented group yet at Saint Mary’s, Bowe said. 
The Office of Admissions reported 43.1 percent of fresh­men ranked in the top 10 per­cent of their high school class. Twelve of these students grad­uated as the valedictorian of their class. 
More than 63 percent of incoming freshmen earned a composite ACT of 25 or higher, and 62 percent scored a com­posite SAT of 1650 or higher, 
hours of child­care for parents attending English as a Second Language class. 
These women, Bowe said, represent the caliber of stu­dents at the College. 
“There are amazing women in this class, and we know that they’re going to make this place richer just by bringing their experience to Saint Mary’s,” Bowe said. 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 


Saturday, August 20, 2011 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
DonorfundsScienceHallrenovation 
By MADELINE MILES 
News Writer 
Recent donations from alum­nae will allow the College to renovate its Science Hall, as well as invest in other science-related fields. 
Saint Mary’s Science Hall, which houses the departments of biology, chemistry and physics, will receive modern­ized equipment and updated systems after a $10 million donation from an alumna. Saint Mary’s President Carol Ann Mooney announced the gift in March. 
Jennifer Mathile Prikkel, a 1995 College graduate, and her parents, Clayton and MaryAnn Mathile, donated the funds to the school in the spring. The contribution is the largest single private gift in College history. 
“This transformational gift will provide facilities equal to the quality of our students and faculty,” Mooney said in a press release when the College announced the donation. “Saint Mary’s has taught sci­ence to women for nearly 150 years, and this gift will ensure that our current and future students will work in cutting-edge laboratories and class­rooms.” 
The renovations will include creating learning labs that support an interdisciplinary pedagogy and relocating and expanding the computer lab. The donation will also provide funds to renovate and replace lighting and heating, ventila­tion and air-conditioning sys­tems, Director of Media Relations Gwen O’Brien said. 
A time line has not been set for the project. 
Prikkel, a member of the Saint Mary’s Board of Trustees, said she felt called to donate after touring the Science Hall. The College’s mission reminded her of the way her parents, the former owners of the pet food compa­ny Iams, often invested in sci­ence education. 

“[That memory] collided with what Saint Mary’s does — to educate, to be objective and [to] use your heart,” Prikkel said in a recent interview. 
In the press release announcing the donation, Prikkel said the gift is a strong endorsement of Saint Mary’s mission. 
“Saint Mary’s produces sci­entists who are socially aware, who are making a difference in the world,” she said. “I recent­ly met two seniors whose research uses inexpensive paper analytical devices (PADs) in the wars against malaria and elephantitis. I was amazed at their work. Imagine what our students will be able to do when they have state of the art facilities in which to study and do their experiments.” 
The donation was followed by another significant gift to science education at Saint Mary’s. This summer, Mooney also announced a bequest of $4.7 million in the will of alumna Marjorie Neuhoff. The bequest from the 1961 Saint Mary’s graduate is the largest in the history of the College. 
The gift will be used to establish endowments for a chair in nursing, a need-based scholarship and the Summer Science Research Communities, according to a press release. 
“Marjorie Neuhoff was a pro­fessional woman known for her business acumen. She also had a great love for Saint Mary’s. In her memory, and with the consideration of her family, we have invested her bequest in areas of the College where we see increasing stu­dent interest,” Mooney said in the release. “Our hope is she would see these as sound investments in an institution with which she had a strong personal connection.” 
The Marjorie Neuhoff Summer Science Research Communities will begin in the summer of 2013. 

Contact Madeline Miles at mmiles01@saintmarys.edu 

Campus welcomes transfer students 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
While most of campus is buzzing with the frenzy of freshman orientation, the Class of 2015 is not the only set of students settling into their new home under the Dome this weekend. 
According to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions, 113 transfer students will take their places in the soph­omore and junior classes this fall. 
Erin Camilleri, assistant director of the Office of Undergraduate Admissions and the counselor responsible for transfer students, said this year ’s transfer class increased in their academica profile. 
“Just like the first-year stu­dents, the entire Notre Dame student body has become more and more competitive,” Camilleri said. 
Unlike first -year admis ­sions, Camilleri said transfer students are not competing for a set number of seats. However, admissions staff was highly selective as they evaluated nearly 400 transfer applications. 
Admitted transfer appli ­cants boasted an average GPA of 3.8 from a variety of challenging institutions, Camilleri said, but exception­al academics may be the only common factor for the trans­fer class this year. 
“Students are coming from all over the country … We don’t have any partner uni­versities,” Camilleri said. “They’re coming to us for a variety of reasons. Some were admitted and chose to go elsewhere, some were not admitted initially, some never applied and later decided Notre Dame was a better fit.” 
The students’ intended majors vary as much as their backgrounds, Camilleri said. While transfers are free to pursue majors in the Colleges of Science, Engineering and Arts and Letters, the latter is especially popular. 
“Majors definitely change year to year,” she said. “Our [College of Arts and Letters] pre-professional route is very popular. Political science, psychology, economics are all [also] very popular. Those are the ones we see consistently.” 
In addition to the challenge of joining a new university, transfers often face the possi­bility of not receiving on ­campus. 
Jeff Shoup, director of the Office of Residence Life and Housing, said 63 women and 74 men applied for housing in the dorms, but only 20 female and 28 male transfer or read­mitted students have been assigned on-campus accom­modations so far. 
Shoup said the availability of housing for both transfer and readmitted students varies from year to year. 
“It fluctuates with on-cam­pus retention, the freshman year numbers and abroad [participation],” he said. “A few of those rooms are those that didn’t get picked at room picks, those leftover after the freshmen were assigned, and from people who cancelled [enrollment]. After those, there aren’t many leftover rooms.” 
Transfers are offered on-campus housing based on a lottery system, and Shoup said no consideration is given to how promptly applicants accepted their offers of admission. Like first -year students, transfer students are randomly assigned to available rooms. 
“When your lottery number comes up, it’s basically, ‘Here’s what your assignment is.’ When someone declines we just move past them, but for the most part housing is important enough to students that we don’t do that often,” Shoup said. “We do have some cases where people have difficulty getting out of their leases and have to decline.” 
Historically, Shoup said transfer students still hoping to move on campus have been able to do so at the semes­ter’s end. 
“The last several years we’ve been able to get every­one on second semester that didn ’t get on fall because there tend to be more stu­dents who study abroad in the spring, ” he said. “We [also] have some students move off, some graduate and some withdraw.” 
No matter the student ’s address at Notre Dame, the transfer orientation commit­tee said its members seek to make “home under the Dome” feel real for incoming transfers. 
Senior Taylor Popplewell, co-commissioner for Transfer Orientation, said the four-day event provides transfer stu­dents with a support system while they find their bearings at a new school. 
“I think ‘Transfer-O’ is great because it provides transfers a means to accli­mate to the campus and to get to know over 110 people going through the same thing they are,” Popplewell said. “Transferring is hard in itself, so having that commu­nity of people makes it easi­er.” 
Some of the highlights of the weekend include a wel­come mass, the President’s Luncheon, “Football 101” and Indiana Dunes Day. 
“At the President ’s Luncheon, Fr. Jenkins addresses the new transfer class. He [was] actually a transfer himself, and it’s an amazing part of the orienta­tion because he’s been in our shoes,” she said. “We also have academic meetings with our advisors, but then there’s also a ton of fun activities like ‘Football 101’ where we teach them all the cheers and dances which is great. Then we have a day where we all go to the dunes and just relax for a day and prepare for classes on Tuesday.” 
During orientation, stu ­dents are assigned transfer “parents” from the 26 com­mittee members, Popplewell said. 
“It’s so they have a close-knit connection with a small­er number of people, ” Popplewell said. “So they have someone to rely on not 
only in orientation but throughout the year.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
page 8 The Observer . NEWS Saturday, August 20, 2011 
Science dean and wife bike for disease research 
the disease, and she wrote, Renate said the trip was also ‘They only have a childhood to rewarding. live a lifetime.’” “Every day, your mind is com-
Another message scrawled on pletely filled with the thoughts the side of the car read, “2,200 of the children you met the 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
College of Science Dean Gregory Crawford wears his summer souvenirs around his wrist. 
Red and green rubber bracelets, which read “Dillon’s Army” and “Race for Adam,” remind Gregory of the children living with Niemann-Pick Type C (NPC) disease he and his wife Renate met on their 2,200 mile “Road to Discovery” bike ride this summer. 
“We did something different this year [from last year’s “Desert to Dome” bike ride],” Gregory said. “This year, we wanted to actually focus on the disease and the families and the children it affects.” 
Last year, the dean and his wife biked nearly 2,300 miles from Arizona to South Bend to raise awareness for NPC research. This summer, the couple’s second journey for the disease began in Boston June 13 and ended in Dallas July 11. 
A van and two drivers, as well as one of the Crawford daugh­ters, accompanied the couple on their trip. Individuals, fami­lies and friends signed the van at the stops along the way and phrases from these well-wish­ers, including singer-songwriter Amy Grant, energized the Crawfords on their trip. 
“We even met parents who had lost children to this dis­ease,” Renate said, pointing to a message on the van. “Rhonda from Providence lost her son to 

Photos courtesy of Katerina Lichtenwalter Above: College of Science Dean Gregory Crawford, right, and his wife Renate biked 2,200 miles this summer to support research on Niemann-Pick Type C (NPC) disease. Below: NPC patient Tristan, bottom center, and her family drove to meet Gregory, bottom left, in Arkansas during his bike trip. The bikers met families across the country affected by NPC. 

miles can make a world of differ­ence.” 
Gregory said he and his wife will make a doc­umentary about their trip. 
“We met with families along the way,” Gregory said. “Every day after riding, we had events [and] meetings with alumni clubs, researchers and families.” 
The couple 
“We met with families along the way. Every day after riding, we had events [and] meetings with alumni clubs, researchers and families.” 
Gregory Crawford dean College of Science 
began in Boston with Ara Parseghian, whose namesake and grandfather is the former Irish football coach. Parseghian, a fourth-year med­ical student at Tufts School of Medicine, watched his three siblings die of NPC, a neuro­degenerative disease that inhibits the body’s ability to process cholesterol. He now serves on the National Board of Directors for the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation, which funds research to find a cure for NPC. 
A photograph of the late Parseghian children – Michael, Marcia and Christa – hangs in Gregory’s office. 
While the journey was emo­tionally and physically difficult, Laureates research. 
night before,” she said. “The trip was more rewarding because it’s per­sonal. I never felt sore or tired while riding because of the thoughts of the families. They were so appre­ciative.” 
The journey ended in Dallas at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical School, where two Nobel conduct NPC 
The cost of NPC is higher than many people realize, Gregory said. Many of the drugs used to ease symptoms are “off­label,” meaning insurance com­panies will not pay for the treatments. 
All funds raised through their journey are dedicated to research at Notre Dame to find a cure for NPC. 
“NPC is a disease that doesn’t have a cure or therapy,” Gregory said. “Part of Notre Dame’s mission, part of its character, is to pick challenges like this up.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

Saturday, August 20, 2011 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
GRC restructures orientation event 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
When first-year students enter the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Monday for the traditional “College HAS Issues: Hookups, Alcohol and Sexual Assault” program, they will be greeted with an unusual request — to bring their cell phones and keep them on. 
David Moss, assistant vice president for Student Affairs and interim director of the Gender Relations Center the program’s changes, how­ever, will remain a mystery until the Monday meeting. 
Elizabeth Moriarty, assistant director of the GRC, said College HAS Issues is an opportunity to protect students by making them aware that rape and sexual assault do happen at Notre Dame, but can be prevented. 
“Coming to college is a very exciting, complex time,” she said. “There are a lot of fears, there’s a lot of excitement. It can be very overwhelming, but there are important things they need to know, and we 
(GRC), said the 
office revamped the annual pro­gram for the Class of 2015 to make it more relevant. 
“We’re trying to find a way to engage the stu­dent a little better … so our purpose is going to be to change things up to bring [the program] into the 21st centu­ry,” Moss said. 
“We’ll cover basically the same information, talking about hookups, alcohol, sexual assault, but it’ll be done in a little different manner, so it should be interesting for the students.” 
David Moss interim director Gender Relations Center 
need a chance to talk with them.” 
The changes in the program are meant to better commu­nicate the information with the exhausted first-year stu­dents, she said. 
“The good news is if we work together to better edu­cate [students] and prevent these things 
“It will be one of the first times in the history of DeBartolo that students will be allowed to keep their cell phones on. We’ll cover basically the same information, talking about hookups, alcohol, sexual assault, but it’ll be done in a little different manner, so it should be interesting for the students.” 
The program’s goal, to inform first-year students about issues they might face on campus and ways to make wise choices, will stay the same, Moss said. Details about from happening, we can make it go away,” she said. “This is an important message, so we have to be more creative about how we get the message across.” 
Moss said he and other members of the GRC staff dis­cussed how the program could be improved for this fall, and was enthusiastic about the revisions. 
“It’s going to be an excellent program,” he said. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
RecSports changes club policies 

to the next level — to further that role for some.” 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
encourage school identity While the tennis squad is 
News Writer 
and unity while still promot-the only group to take advan­ing college rivalries in a non-tage of the new policy so far, Under a new RecSports pol-varsity setting,” Galloway Brown said RecSports will icy, club teams will be said. field 33 club teams this year. allowed to coexist with varsi-Hogle and Galloway, the In addition to tennis, it has ty teams of the same sport club’s co-presidents, immedi-added racquetball, Nordic during this school year, ately accepted the offer. Ski and Tai Chi Gong Fu. A David Brown, assistant direc-Juniors Nate club team for tor of club sports, said. Balmert, Matt o u t d o o r In the past, RecSports did Smith and Anna sports, such as 
“I think there are a lot 
not permit a club team to be Wanzek will hiking and 
of kids that are great 
formed if a varsity team also serve as the climbing, will already existed in that sport, club’s officers. players but aren’t quite also begin this Brown said. Now, students As the group year. Due to 
Division I players, and 
may apply to create a club applied for club lack of inter ­
hopefully our club can 
team in any sport, even if status, Balmert est, Brown that sport already has a var-said the process take that role for said RecSports sity squad. was complicated eli minated
some.” 
The new policy was good at first. men’s running news for juniors Ben “Courts will and 180Fit. 
Matt Smith 
Galloway and Stefan Hogle. also be tough to Despite the The pair will begin a club come by, but we treasurer changes, tennis team, a goal since will be able to club tennis team Brown said 

the procedure 
for founding any new club sports will remain the same. 
“Some criteria include sub­mitting a constitution, a prospective advisor that must be approved, demonstrated interest in the sport on cam­pus, a slate of club officers and so on,” Brown said. 
Club officers must also find nearby schools that compete in their sport, and they must investigate the rules and requirements for its associa­tions in the Midwest. Brown said the club must also address if Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross students will be allowed to play on the team. 
Regardless of any prelimi­nary obligations, Brown said there are always issues that come up with each club, such as finding and maintaining the necessary practice or game space. 
Clubs are also required to partake in at least one com­munity service activity. 
“I have interviews with the prospective club officers to discuss their mission and expected activities, among other topics,” Brown said. 
Brown said some students have expressed interest in forming other club teams under RecSports’ new rules, but none have taken the nec­essary steps to apply like those interested in tennis did. 
“Students interested in men’s and women’s lacrosse, men’s and women’s soccer and coed golf have made inquiries and may petition for recognition next year,” Brown said. 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 
their freshman year in 2009. 
“Early in the spring semes­ter, we were fortunate enough to be contacted and asked if we would be inter­ested in pursuing this oppor­tunity,” Galloway said. 
Galloway and Hogle agreed that while intramural teams have been a great way to stay involved in the sport they love, they are excited to compete against other schools. 
“We feel club teams will provide students with a way to take that competitive edge get some time with priority similar to the Saint Mary’s team and there are high school courts as well, ” Balmert said. 
Smith said he has high hopes for the team. 
“I know that interhall ten­nis teams were very strong, and that all of us were state or national players in high school, ” he said. “I think there are a lot of kids that are great players but aren’t quite Division I players, and hopefully our club can take 

page 10 The Observer . NEWS Saturday, August 20, 2011 
Eddy Street adds three businesses 

By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Brothers Bar and Grill, Urban Outfitters and McAlister’s Deli will open their Eddy Street Commons doors for the first time this fall. 
Brothers, located on the east 
side of Eddy Street, is sched­uled to open in October and tar­gets college towns with their lively atmos­phere and full menu, Gregory Hakanen, direc­tor of asset man­agement at Notre Dame, said Monday. 
The chain also operates loca­tions in Bloomington, Ind., near Indiana 
ever done. We are going to have over 80 tap handles on draft … It’s going to be absolutely over-the-top and a first-rate establishment for Notre Dame.” 
The bar and restaurant is currently hiring for its October 
opening, Fortney said. 
“We just want to make sure we in today’s marketplace,” he said. “It’s a market that we very much want to be a part of.” 
Fortney said Eddy Street Commons is a “spectacular” development for college stu­dents in the area. 
“We really do think the stu­dents are very lucky to have a development so close to the 
“We just want to make sure we get out of the box properly ... and that we can provide really great service to our customers throughout the day and the late night.” 
Marc Fortney co-founder Brothers Bar and Grill 

University and in Madison, Wis., 
near  the  University  of  
Wisconsin.  
Marc  Fortney,  one  of  the  

Brothers’ founders, said the bar and restaurant will offer both good food and exciting nightlife to customers. 
“It’s going to be a lot of booths with a big bar component,” Fortney said. “We are doing the largest tap beer selection we’ve 
“This high-quality deli operation founded in Oxford, Miss., [also] targets college towns and will appeal to students and area residents alike.” 
Gregory Hakanen asset management director Notre Dame 
get out of the box properly … and that we can provide really great service to our customers throughout the day and the late night,” he said. 
Notre Dame and Kite Realty Group, the developer for Eddy Street Commons, reached out to the franchise three years ago, Fortney said. 
“They came looking for a fun and safe place for their students to be and for the community to enjoy, so I guess we fit that bill campus with the different types of food options that you’ve got going on there and all the support services,” Fortney said. “It’s a very cool project, and we are very excited to see that proj­ect filled.” 
The national franchise McAlister’s Deli, located on Angela Boulevard and east of the 
Hammes Notre Dame book­store, is scheduled to open in September, Hakanen said. 
“This high-quality deli opera­tion founded in Oxford, Miss., [also] targets college towns and will appeal to students and area residents alike,” Hakanen said. “Construction is progressing rapidly.” 
The retailer Urban Outfitters will also join the development. 
“Construction on this popular store is nearing completion, and opening is antic­ipated in late August,” Hakanen said. 
Urban Outfitters is located on the east side of Eddy Street, just south of The Mark restaurant. 
Hakanen said the retail com­ponent of Eddy Street Commons 
has only four small storefronts left. 
“Kite Realty Group is being selective in choosing the remaining tenants, including a coffee shop and a convenience store,” he said. 
Development plans for a sec­ond phase of Eddy Street Commons are currently unavailable, Hakanen said. 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 
Textbook rental returns this year 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
and ANNA BOARINI 
News Writers 
For the second year in a row, both the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore and the Saint Mary’s Shaheen Bookstore will offer rentable textbooks during the fall semester. 
Notre Dame sophomore Neal Ravindra, academic affairs committee chair, said the program is a convenient option for students. 
“You can rent through the bookstore, pick up your texts and return them at the end of the semester,” Ravindra said. “(You) can highlight the books and take notes in the margins of the books. Of course, stu­dents must keep in mind the rented books will be used again.” 
Last fall, Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s student govern­ments launched the Rent-A-Text program through their schools’ bookstores. Rent-A-Text provides students with the option of renting a text­book for a semester at a lower fee than the cost of purchas­ing the book. Rentals can be completed online through the bookstores’ websites. 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore said 36 percent of their textbooks are rentable this semester, and students can save up to 50 percent by renting books instead of buy­ing them. 
Titles are only available to rent, however, if faculty mem­bers actively participate in the program. 
“Dissatisfaction with Rent-A-Text stemmed primarily from the low availability of texts eligible for renting,” Ravindra said. “The availabili­ty of rentable texts depends on the compliance rate among faculty for textbook adoption and their timeliness.” 
The bookstores must pro­vide Rent-A-Text with infor­mation about the specific books used by each class every semester. Ravindra said this requirement means many books are not available to rent if professors do not submit their required texts for rental. 
“The low participation rate among the faculty for text­book adoption was the leading factor that limited the avail­ability of rentable texts,” Ravindra said. “Greater par­ticipation is needed.” 
Despite challenges in kick­ing off the program, Saint Mary’s student body president Nicole Gans said the rental system is advantageous to stu­dents. 
“[Textbook rental] is a bene­fit that most small schools don’t have,” Gans said. 
Mike Hicks, manager of the Shaheen Bookstore, said both Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s partner with Follett Corporation for their Rent-A-Text programs. 
“[Establishing Rent-A-Text for all the company’s clients] was a $130 million investment from Follett,” Hicks said. “But [Follett] believed it was a nec­essary task and an opportuni­ty to make a large-scale impact on overall affordability in higher education.” 
Notre Dame students also have the option of using digi­tal textbooks for certain class­es. The Shaheen Bookstore hopes to provide e-texts in future semesters as well, Hicks said. 
“We’re very prepared for an increased demand in digital,” he said. 
Follett works with the digi­tal textbook platform CafeScribe.com. Hicks said students could try this service for a few days for free to see if they liked the digital format. 
“It features the same pagi­nation as the printed text, one-click summarizing of notes and highlights, and can save you 40 to 60 percent over buying a new book,” he said. 
The Shaheen bookstore will continue to expand the rental program. Hicks said faculty must be prepared to use a book for multiple years to participate in the rentals. 
“Rental only works with the anticipated re-use of a book, so we work hand-in-hand with faculty to maximize availabili­ty,” Hicks said. 
Kristen Blitch, Notre Dame Retail Operations marketing manager, said the Hammes Bookstore will continue to expand Rent-A-Text for Notre Dame students in the pro­gram’s second year. 
“We’re continually working to increase the number of rentable titles in the store,” Blitch said. “The more we have, the happier we can make the students.” 
Student feedback was most­ly positive after one year of the textbook rentals, she said. 
“There really are more choices than ever for stu­dents. In the long run we hope to increase the number of books available for rental. This isn’t something we can make happen easily, but with everyone’s help, it’s certainly achievable,” Blitch said. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu and Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
Saturday, August 20, 2011 page 11 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Brotherly advice 
I, like many of you nervous fresh­men, was not the first in my family to attend Notre Dame. My oldest brother claimed that prize in 1996. Then two more followed him before my turn came. 
After 15 years, my parents marvel how each of their four sons has “shown” them a “different Notre Dame.” Odd as it may sound, they’re right. The oldest 

Douglas Farmer 
of us majored in political science 
Editor-in-Chief 
and loved dorm life. The second rarely came home, yet rarely seemed to be at school. The third was an engineer to his nerdy core. And me, I pretend to go to class between shifts in this office and stints at Kildare’s, er, O’Rourke’s. 
Different experiences indeed. 
I never really grasped how true that is until I was deep into my freshman year, sporting the lowest GPA of the bunch and not bothered by it a wit. 
You will spend four years at a differ­ent Notre Dame than your parents or siblings did, and a different Notre Dame than your roommate or future spouse will. 
No matter how many Chicagoland natives you meet named Katherine, Kathleen or Megan, no matter how many tall, skinny, pale guys awkwardly say hello, no matter how many times you eat the same meal and drink the same cheap beer as everyone else, your time here will be different than anyone else’s. 
So, to quote my oldest brother, “Don’t forget to transition from being happy to be at Notre Dame to making the most of your time there.” 
Because it really will be your time. 
Thus, most pieces of sage advice I could dispense now would be irrele­vant. They pertain to my experience, not yours. Instead of trying to correct my own errors through you, I’d rather simply save you some time. So, once more, drawing from what my brothers told me three years ago: 
“Find out when quarter dogs are at La Fortune … They are a good late-night snack.” — Midnight on week­nights. 
“Go find the hidden pictures in the murals at the Main Building so you can show visitors when they come. And they will come.” — You’re looking in the tassels of the painted rugs. You should find a bowling pin, a belly dancer and Kermit the Frog. In the grain of one of the wooden entry doors, spot the cowardly lion. 
“Share Mom’s cookies … I’d imagine they’re a good way to break the ice with girls.” — Even though he married his high school sweetheart, he knew what he was talking about. 
And, mine: “Relax.” It’s a stressful weekend, but nothing will happen in the next 24 hours, the next week, or even the next semester, that a night with your new friends and a relaxed drink, alcoholic or non, won’t fix. 
From there, make these four years yours. 
Douglas Farmer is a senior with a major in the Program of Liberal Studies and a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. He can be found in The Observer office in South Dining Hall at all times or reached at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
From fears to friends 
Congratulations, freshmen. 
You’ve said goodbye to your high school friends, you’ve arranged your impossibly small dorm room and you’ve met and judged your room­mate. 
You’ve officially made it through those first awk­ward, stressful, challenging moments of col­lege. Now take a second and breathe. There 

Sarah Mervosh 
will be plenty more where 
Managing 
those came from in 
Editor 
the next four years, but hopefully by the end of this column you’ll feel a bit more prepared. 
I can’t say goodbye to your parents for you, sit next to you in your first college class or hold your hand at your first dorm party. 
But I can give you some perspective to take with you along the way. I had a lot of fears coming into college: break­ing up with my high school boyfriend, losing touch with my high school friends, not liking Notre Dame, which had always been my dream school. 
And to varying degrees, all of that happened. My high school boyfriend and I broke up a month into college. I was sad, but if that hadn’t happened, I wouldn’t have experienced the awk­wardness of a dining hall date, and I wouldn’t be dating my boyfriend now. 
I went from talking to my high school friends once a day to every once in a while. But if I didn’t let go a little bit, I wouldn’t have formed friendships with the people that I know will be at my wedding, child’s birth and 70th birthday party. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Living with your friends in college makes for both pee-your-pants and I-want-to-kill you moments, but in the end, your friends be there for you through thick and thin. 
Like those moments when you’re sad or scared or frustrated that Notre Dame isn’t exactly what you thought it would be. There will be a few times like that, but your new friends will sit on the futon with you through it all. 
It is those moments that will help you appreciate and love Notre Dame, despite its dysfunctional idiosyncrasies and soon enough you will be tweeting about how you are #domesick. I know I am. 
Since freshman year, many of my initial fears came true, and you know what? I’m so glad they did. So my best advice is to welcome all the change that’s going to happen instead of try­ing to fight it. 
You’ll be surprised how it changes you for the better. It will be a little while before you’re able to see that, though, so in the mean time, let’s focus on the more practical items: 
There’s no better way to stand out as a freshman than to wander around the dining hall aimlessly and enter lines from the wrong end. I can’t speak for North Dining Hall, but at South Dining Hall, the pasta line starts by the bananas, the vegetable line start away from the drinks and the apple/salad line starts from the Chinese food. Follow suit. 
The dining hall is a great place to people watch. Observe, scout out the cuties and create nicknames for them among your friends. (Notre Dame is too small to use their real names when you’re gossiping about how you want to meet up with so-and-so this week­end after hours.) 
When in doubt, play Aerosmith’s “I Don’t Want To Miss A Thing” or Seal’s “Kiss From A Rose” at a party. 
If you’re breaking parietals, a fire alarm is NOT an indication to leave the room. Unless you actually smell fire, and in that case, take your pick 
— ResLife or Satan. Could be an even match. If the police come to a party, run, Forrest, run. 
Introduce yourself. I met one of my best friends on campus because I sent him an awkward Facebook message about our astronomy homework. We laugh about it now, but who would I get relationship advice from in moments of panic if I hadn’t taken that first step? 
Learn to love Taylor Swift. 
Choose your classes based on the professor. A good professor makes all the difference. 
Do not write a letter to The Observer detailing your freshman year hookups. 
Do sign up for The Observer at activ­ities night. It’s been the best part of my college experience so far. 
When you walk outside and it’s -20 degrees, you don’t have a booger hanging out of your nose. That’s just the feeling of your nose hairs freezing. 
Truly take in these next few years. They’ve been the best years of my life so far, and I am confident they will be for you as well. Enjoy. 
Sarah Mervosh is a senior studying Arabic and Psychology with a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. This column makes her seem more put together than she actually is and she should probably learn to follow her own great advice. She can be reached at smervosh@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Change is the constant, the signal for rebirth, the egg of the phoenix.” 
Christina Baldwin 
U.S. writer 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The cure for boredom is curiosity. There is no cure for curiosity.” 
Dorothy Parker 
U.S. poet, writer and satirist 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
page 12 Saturday, August 20, 2011 
Dance parties and other tips 
When my sister headed off to col-as successful as them. Good news — lege a year after I did, I wasn’t sure you made it to Notre Dame, so you’re what to give her, but I knew that as a already well on your way. rising sophomore I had an infinite As the weather gets colder and amount of wisdom to share. pangs of homesickness settle in, 
The things I know that there are people here who learned that fresh-

will love and welcome you whole-man year, like how 
heartedly into what we call the to stay up past 2 
warm Notre Dame family. a.m., what part of 
Even though we’ve been told over the library all the 
and over again how much smarter cute boys study in 
your class is than ours, I promise 
we’ll try not to resent you. In fact, boys don’t study — — news flash, cute 
we might just even invite you over and how to ade­
for a dance party to warm up your quately decorate a spirits. 
Adriana Pratt 
hallway for Notre Dame is a special place, but Christmas basical-you don’t need me to tell you that. As 
Assistant 
ly made me the I get closer and closer to stepping 
Managing 
Albert Einstein of out into the real world, my heart 
Editor 
college and life aches more and more to stay knowledge (not). beneath the Golden Dome. You really 
In reality, by that point in life, my won’t find people like the ones you sister was tired of hearing me meet this weekend and this year preach so I turned to people she anywhere else, trust me. actually liked — my friends — and I have to be honest. It took me a asked them to offer some advice for while to appreciate everything Notre her freshman year. Dame is. I came here with a skepti-
The things they recommended, like cal eye, and not just because both having regular dance parties with my parents are Purdue fans. your roommates to both bond and It was hard to believe that one de-stress, putting away your cell school could have the academics, phones at parties to avoid regret-athletics, faith, tradition and quality table text messages and reading any of people this place promised. and everything you come across Everywhere I looked, I peeked because there’s so much out there to behind the scenes to find the person learn, were all valuable gems. who would jump out and yell, 
Other things, like inappropriate “Gotcha!” It all seemed too good to party jokes that were guaranteed to be true, but it wasn’t. offend someone, were entertaining, It might take a few days, weeks, but not quite as helpful. months or no time at all for you to 
Some also offered college advice fall in love with this school. staples, like go into freshman year Work at whatever pace is right for with an open mind and find your you. As they say in “Field of niche. Dreams,” “If you build it, they will 
Get involved and take some risks come.” bigger than putting off your home-If you open your mind and heart to work until Sunday night. what Notre Dame has to offer, I 
Don’t be scared to talk to profes-guarantee the immense love and sat­sors (I still am) and don’t worry isfaction the students have for this about having a perfect GPA (I don’t). school and each other will come and All these were valuable and really warm you, even when there are piles should be considered. of snow outside … in October. 
A lot is going to be thrown at you this weekend, this year and really Adriana Pratt is a senior studying the rest of your time here. political science and journalism. She 
The great thing (and overwhelming has safeguarded her future by thing) about college is that there are befriending a lot of pre-med students so many people here with so much who have promised her a couch when knowledge about things you’ve never she can't find employment. Adriana even heard of, that you’ll never run can be reached at apratt@nd.edu out of people to ask for advice. The views expressed in this column 
At the same time, it’s hard not to are those of the author and not wonder if you’ll ever be as smart or necessarily those of The Observer. 
The freshman 72-hour challenge 
Welcome home. details. Freshmen at Purdue and 
According to the numbers, you are Indiana have a similar set of orienta­the most accomplished incoming class tion activities planned. to date. Your SAT and ACT scores are Over the next four years, they will well above national averages and your go to classes, attend home football high school rank games, form relationships and social-is one digit long. 

ize just like hundreds of students I’m just glad I was 
across the country. born in 1990. 
But college is a story of details. Some of you are 
Embrace Notre Dame for the details national scholars. 
that no other student body in the Others are all-
nation has the opportunity to experi­state varsity ath­
ence. letes. Some are 
Attend Mass in the Basilica, take a both, and yet all 
tour of ND Stadium and form a of you were Bookstore Basketball team. 
Christopher Masoud 
chosen based Or make your own list. Just make on your prior feats sure it’s unique to you and this univer-
Assistant 
and more impor-sity. And don’t get caught up in the 
Managing 
tantly, future stories you hear from old friends. 
Editor 
potential. Every year fall break comes along, 
But you are still we go back home and we exchange the most unaccomplished students on stories with high school classmates. campus — until this weekend. You’ve Greek life is great, but alas, it will yet to take a single class, complete an never be a part of this campus. assignment, lead a Notre Dame cheer, So don’t force it. Share your experi­finish a set of pushups in the student ence of throwing a party in an 8 foot section, walk into a dorm party, leave by 10 foot dorm room, attending the a dorm party or, the ultimate prize, first night game at the Big House or accept a full-time job offer. And by the grabbing 33-cent dogs at the Huddle. end of this weekend, that list will still Embrace your dormitory. be waiting for you. Notre Dame will make your college 
Yet I challenge you over the next 72 experience unique to the rest of the hours to make a name for yourself. nation, but your dorm will make your Let people remember you for all the experience unique to the rest of the right reasons. campus. 
It all starts with moving in. If you Accept the natural rivalry that exists haven’t already, introduce yourself to between the halls, participate in sig­your roommate(s) and hallmates, their nature hall events and take on a lead-parents, RAs, ARs and, most impor-ership role. Make a name for yourself. tantly, your rector. First impressions Put in the time in the classroom, of last, and getting off to the right start course. You can’t use “transitioning to could be particularly helpful after college” as a footnote on your resume, tonight. but don’t let grades define your four-
Continue meeting as many people as year experience. possible. Enjoy the stunning weather, Coming back to this weekend — live read a section or two of DuLac in the moment. You can use the next between open houses and get to know 72 hours to make every effort to form the upperclassmen in your section, friendships and relationships without especially the sophomores. They will any awkward pretenses, so take show you the ropes better than any-advantage, even at Domerfest. one. Lastly, don’t worry about the home-
I suppose I could continue giving tips sick feeling you might get in the mid-like this for the whole weekend, but dle of next week. this is your freshman orientation. Like It passes quickly and by Friday it the next four years, define your expe-doesn’t come back. rience on your own terms. 
In more ways than one, Freshman Chris Masoud is a senior Finance Orientation weekend is like a snapshot and Economics Major living of the next four years. You meet an off-campus. He can be reached at incredible number of people, you form cmasoud@nd.edu friendships, you learn, you socialize, The views expressed in this column you forget, you say goodbye and you are those of the author and not remember — it’s up to you to fill in the necessarily those of The Observer. 

The Observer 
Viewpoint 
Saturday, August 20, 2011 page 13 
Campus leaders welcome Class of 2015 
Keep your “eyes high” 
For 169 consecutive years, the University of Notre Dame has opened its doors to welcome new students. For those serving here, we approach this year with as much zeal and optimism as you, our first-year, transfer, professional and new graduate students bring to campus. 
The University’s legacy is long and its traditions are deep, but your presence renews and enlivens this storied Catholic institution. On behalf of all of us who serve in Student Affairs, we welcome our newest members to campus, but most impor­tantly, to our community. 
The Division of Student Affairs, in concert with our col­leagues throughout campus, strives to facilitate your intellec­tual, spiritual and personal growth. The integration of these essential human dimensions is one hallmark of a Notre Dame education. 
The University offers a variety of valuable resources to assist you. Our 29 undergraduate residence halls and two graduate and family residence facilities help to create the sense of com­munity that is one of our most distinctive features. 
Student service departments in the Division of Student Affairs are experienced in supporting both specialized needs and integrative approaches to your development. You will find ready partners among the dedicated staff of Campus Ministry, the Career Center, Multicultural Student Programs and Services, the Counseling Center, the Gender Relations Center, the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, University Health Services, the Office of Residence Life, Student Activities and the Office of Housing. 
As you enter into this community I encourage you to keep your “eyes high” as you walk about campus — so that we might greet one another personally and as a way to consider the long horizon of your life when contemplating the individual decisions and countless opportunities awaiting you. 
Please know you have the very best efforts and wishes of the Student Affairs Division and that you are lifted in prayer daily by me, and my brothers and sisters of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Fr. Tom Doyle, C.S.C. 
Vice President of Student Affairs University of Notre Dame Aug. 20, 2011 
To the Belles 
Class of 2015 Belles, I’d like to welcome you home! To the beautiful Avenue and the Golden Dome. 
Maybe right now you are nervous or scared To embark on your college journey, feeling so unprepared, 
But let me tell you first-hand, you have no need to worry. Everyone’s in the same place, you’ll make friends in a hurry! 
Those friends will quickly turn into your family. You just gained 1,600 new sisters, just wait and see, 
We are all here to help you and want only your best. To your success here at Saint Mary’s College, our efforts we’ll invest, 
So please get involved, there is so much to do. Clubs that will allow you to discover the leader in you! 
Work hard in classes, attendance is the key! Everyone can share in your 8 a.m. misery. 
But remember to have fun, it’s not all about the books. Save time to impress the boys with your charm and good looks. 
The next four years will fly by more quickly than you can believe; That we are entering our last year is something we can’t conceive. 
So cherish each minute and enjoy every day. Grow and explore in every possible way. 
Take chances, find risks, don’t be afraid to fail. Take advantage of every opportunity and blaze your own trail. 
We wish you good luck, and a fabulous year, As you now embark on your Saint Mary’s College career. 
Nicole Gans 
Student Body President Saint Mary’s College Aug. 20, 2011 
Jacqualyn Zupancic 
Student Body Vice President Saint Mary’s College Aug. 20, 2011 
A warm welcome 
Dear Students: 
With the beginning of a new academic year, I extend a warm welcome to all new and returning students of the University of Notre Dame. 
In particular, I wish to congratulate and welcome our freshmen and transfer students. We are excited and grateful that you are here, and we will strive to nurture your growth during your time as a student. 
Make the most of your time here. Be open to engaging new friends, those who may have very similar or very different personal stories and perspectives. Embrace each classroom experience as an opportunity to learn, hone your talents and share your ideas. If you live in a residence hall, explore the multiple ways that you can contribute as a leader. When you face challenge, know that you are not alone and do not hesitate to seek support from those around you. Finally, in all that you do, take a few moments each day for personal reflection to refresh your spirit. 
One of the primary objectives of Notre Dame, as a Catholic university, is to develop people who will be pre­pared to make positive contributions to the Church and the world. We are confident that you possess the tal­ent and desire to make meaningful and lasting contributions. 
Once again, welcome to Notre Dame. May you soon come to feel at home on campus, and to love this place, as do so many graduates of past years. I hope to meet you in person over the course of your time, and throughout that time, I will keep you in my prayers. 
In Notre Dame, 
Fr. John Jenkins, C.S.C. 
President University of Notre Dame Aug. 20, 2011 
The real Saint Mary’s 
On behalf of the faculty and staff at Saint Mary’s College, I extend a warm welcome to the Class of 2015 and our transfer students. As the 11th president of Saint Mary’s, and a proud alumna, I know how powerful this experience will be for you. You will spend the next four years in a rigorous academic environment sup­ported by an excellent faculty, close friends and a deeply caring staff. 
As a Holy Cross institution, we place a special emphasis on the education of the whole person. Your educa­tion does not end when you leave the classroom. Every activity in which you participate will enhance your collegiate experience. I encourage you to participate in as many co-curricular activities as time and your academic schedule will permit. Over 80 percent of our students participate in community service. This num­ber demonstrates the importance we place on giving back and on experiential learning. 
One of my aspirations for you is that you will develop a sense of obligation to promote the common good and that your entire life and work will reflect that understanding. If this happens for you, then you, too, will have experienced the real Saint Mary’s. 
The world needs women educated in the Saint Mary’s way. Our proud 167-year tradition of educating women to make a difference in the world now includes you. It is your turn to make history at Saint Mary’s College. I look forward to accompanying you on this exciting journey. 
Sincerely, 
Carol Ann Mooney 
President Saint Mary’s College Aug. 20, 2011 
Come on in 
Dear Class of 2015, 
We hope you’ve had a smooth move-in process and a great start to your first weekend as a student at Notre Dame! This is an incredibly important moment in your life, and it’s a privilege for us to have the chance to share it with you and your family. 
As your student body president and vice president, our job is to lead a team of students who advocate for the aspirations of the student body as a whole as well as every branch of the University. Your Student Union is made up of hundreds of undergraduates running organizations that exist for the sole purpose of serving you. We hope you’ll take advantage of them. We work on issues ranging from constituent services, such as lowering the price of Quarter Dogs and increasing the size of student printing quotas, to broader reform efforts, such as pursuing a comprehensive university sustainability strategy. 
Come visit us in 203 LaFortune Hall to find out how you can get involved. Choose a path to make your mark and join together to answer Fr. Jenkins’ challenge to “build a Notre Dame that is bigger and better than ever.” 
Now, back to this weekend. There are probably a dozen things going on in your mind as you read through The Observer on your way to five different orientation events that you have somehow managed to squeeze into the next half hour. Before you finish lofting your bed, buying your books and planning how you’ll fit in that triple major while still saving time to study abroad on two continents, hold on for just one second. You’re about to start one of the most exciting adventures of your life, and the best part is you can’t really plan it out in advance. 
But you can count on one thing: you’re not in this alone. Your section is with you. Your hall staff is with you. And we’re with you too. Whether you’re not sure where to find your place at Notre Dame or literally lost somewhere on campus, head for 203 LaFortune Hall right next to the Golden Dome. Our door is always open. Come on in — anytime for any reason. In the meantime, please let us know if there’s anything we can do to help with the transition. You can find a member of our team by looking for an “Ask Me” name tag and we’ll all be happy to answer any questions you or your parents might have. 
Thank you for choosing to give yourself to this Notre Dame family. We think you’ll find it’s a place like no other on earth, and can’t wait to see how you build it even better. As you do, we hope you’ll consider us along for the ride, and with you every step of the way. 
Patrick McCormick 
Student Body President University of Notre Dame Aug. 20, 2011 
Brett Rocheleau 
Student Body Vice President University of Notre Dame Aug. 20, 2011 








page 14 Saturday, August 20, 2011 

Notre Dame students storm Quad -ers head to Reckers that has students spitting out 
By MAIJA GUSTIN and MARY 
factoids months after the 
CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
semester ends. 
Scene Editor and Associate Scene Editor 
13. Interhall Sports — Each dorm sponsors teams in 
1. Drummers’ Circle — a variety of sports, from 
held in the Main Building and awarded to the previous year’s Hall of the Year. Set up your roommate with a blind (or not so blind) date and see if sparks fly. 
— 
held 


Saturday, August 20, 2011 page 15 

Joined a club Attended Hip-Hop Night Painted your body for a game Gone on a sponsored trip Participated in a sport 

Watched a SUB movie Started a Viewpoint war Free Space! Ended the night at Nick’s Patio Traveled to an away game 



Gone to every library floor Worked at a concession stand Met Fr. Hesburgh Played bookstore basketball Appeared in The Observer 

B1 Block Party 

Every year, Legends hosts a concert to kickoff the fall semester. Last year Guster rocked the B1 parking lot and this year, DJ and mash-up artist Girl Talk will take the stage. Exclusively for Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross students, the $10 ticket not only grants you access to the concert, but also to activities throughout the evening. 
Women’s Soccer National Champions 
Last fall, the Notre Dame women’s soccer team unseated the previously undefeated Stanford to win the national championship. Head to Alumni Fields this fall to watch the No. 1 women defend their title. 
USC Night Game 
On Oct. 22, 2011 Notre Dame stadium will host its frst night game in 21 years. The Fighting Irish will take on the Trojans of USC under the lights in one of the biggest rivalry games of the season. We don’t know when there will be another night game, so make the most of this exciting opportunity. 
LAURA LAWS & LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 
Fall 2011 Notre Dame Varsity Athletics Schedule 
Event Locations Football — Notre Dame Stadium, Men’s and Women’s Soccer — Alumni Stadium, Women’s Volleyball — Purcell Pavillion, Men’s and Women’s Golf —Warren Golf Course, Cross Country — Notre Dame Golf Course, Fight Like a Champion Today — Purcell Pavillion, Men’s and Women’s Tennis — Eck Tennis Pavillion 
MONDAY  TUESDAY  WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY  SATURDAY  SUNDAY  
August  
22 Men’s Soccer vs Creighton 7:00 p.m.  23  24  25  26 Women’s Volleyball vs Eastern Michigan 7:00 p.m.  27 Men’s Soccer vs Indiana 7:30 p.m. Women’s Volleyball vs Idaho  28 Women’s Volleyball vs Butler 1:30 p.m.  
7:00 p.m.  
29  30  31  
Septem ber  1  2 Women’s Soccer vs Tulsa 7:30 p.m.  3 Football vs South Florida 3:30 p.m.  4 Women’s Soccer vs Indiana 1:30 p.m.  
5  6  7  8  9 Men’s Soccer vs Denver 7:30 p.m. Women’s Volleyball vs Lipscomb 7:00 p.m.  10 Football @ Michigan 8:00 p.m. Women’s Volleyball vs Portland 7:00 p.m.  11 Men’s Soccer vs Bucknell 2:00 p.m. Women’s Volleyball vs Valparaiso 1:30 p.m.  

12 13 14 15 16 17 18 
Men’s Soccer vs Football vs Michigan Michigan State 
7:30 p.m. 3:30 p.m. 
Women’s Soccer vs Louisville 
5:00 p.m. 
Cross Country National Catholic Championships 
3:30 p.m. 
Fight Like a Champion 
9:00 p.m. 
19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
Men’s Tennis Football @ Women’s Volleyball Tom Fallon 
Pittsburgh vs Villanova Invitational 12:00 p.m. 1:00 p.m. All Day 
Men’s Soccer vs Louisville
26 27 28 29 30 
7:00 p.m. 
Men’s Golf Men’s Golf Women’s Soccer vs Women’s Volleyball Connecticut Fighting Irish Fighting Irish 
2:00 p.m. 
Gridiron Golf Gridiron Golf 
7:30 p.m. 
Classic Classic Cross Country 
All Day All Day 
Notre Dame Invitational 
2:00 p.m. 
12 
Football @ Purdue Women’s Soccer vs 
Providence Women’s Volleyball 1:00 p.m. vs Cincinnati Women’s Volleyball 
8:00 p.m. 
vs Louisville
2:00 p.m. 
2:00 p.m. 
October 
3456789 
Football vs Air Force 
3:30 p.m. 
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 
Women’s Soccer vs 
Women’s Soccer vs Georgetown 
Villanova 
7:30 p.m. 
1:00 p.m. 
17  18  19  20  21  22  23  
Men’s Soccer vs  Women’s Soccer vs  Fooball vs USC  Women’s Volleyball  
Seton Hall  DePaul  7:30 p.m.  vs USF  
7:00 p.m.  7:30 p.m.  2:00 p.m.  

Saturday, August 20, 2011 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS page 17 
national championship gram ’s second national “It’ll be a huge game to start the 
against No. 17 Indiana. 
game. She scored 20 or title, the Irish will once 
McGraw
Clark 
season, and we usually always 
more points in four of the again face one of the most start with a big game,” Clark said. 
continued from page 28 six tournament games, difficult schedules in the 
continued from page 28 
“Indiana is always an exciting 
including 24 against country, starting with the season on the bench due to NCAA game as in in-state rival. Soccer is 
got that far and couldn ’t Tennessee in the program’s non-conference slate, which transfer regulations. Finley led the very important in Indiana.” 
finish it,” McGraw said. “So first-ever victory over the will be revealed in full in ACC in scoring last season with 17 Though luck has been on Notre 
I think we’re all really com-Volunteers, 28 against September. goals and ranked first among all Dame’s side playing the Hoosiers 
mitted to getting back and Connecticut and 23 in the NCAA Division I players in goals in Bloomington, they struggled 
this time finishing it.” loss to Texas A&M. Contact Andrew Owens at per game with 0.94 goals per against their regional rival at 
Only forward Becca In their quest for the pro aowens2@nd.edu game. Alumni Stadium last year, a trend 
Bruszewski left the Irish Finley is the first transfer to join Clark and the Irish want to 
starting rotation. The grad-the Irish during Clark’s tenure. change for a confidence boost into 
uate served as the team’s “[Finley] certainly has a great the new season. 
emotional leader in addition background,” Clark said. “He’s got “We won there last year, but we 
to contributing 8.9 points to settle into a new team which haven’t won at home against them 
per game and 5.3 rebounds always takes a bit of time, but he’s in a while,” Clark said. “They’ve 
per contest. got tremendous statistics. We’re had the better of us on our home 
“It ’s difficult and it ’s a hoping he can fill some of the ground.” 
challenge every year when goals that [graduated] Steven Once back on campus, the team 
you see a class graduate,” Perry got us last year.” held a meeting discussing hopeful 
McGraw said. “The class The Irish tied Xavier 1-1 outcomes at the brink of a new 
before Becca graduated and Tuesday in an exhibition match. year for the Irish. 
people wondered who They defeated Butler 2-1 “We really want to focus on the 
would fill in the gaps and Thursday in the second of their national championship and focus-
people did it. We expect three exhibition matches. Junior ing on things that are going to get 
[sophomore forward] forward Danny O’Leary and sen-us there,” Powers said. “It’s hard 
Natalie Achonwa and ior midfielder Adam Mena each to say what will get us there.” 
[freshman forward] scored to lead the Irish. This season, Clark wants his 
Markisha Wright would be Notre Dame will host No. 10 team to recreate the success of 
the people that would fill in Creighton at Alumni Stadium last year but take it a few steps 
terms of playing time.” Monday for its third and final further toward what would be the 
Achonwa elevated her exhibition game. The match will team’s first national champi­
game down the stretch and be the team’s annual donation onship. 
provided some productive game for the Grassroots Soccer “I think we were very close last 
minutes at key times in the non-profit organization that is year. Hopefully we can edge a lit-
Big East tournament and near and dear to Clark. Clark’s tle bit closer, and this year, I think 
NCAA tournament. Her con-son founded the organization that that’s the aim of this moment in 
tributions helped hold seeks to create awareness for time,” Clark said. “If we can edge 
Connecticut freshman cen­young Africans about the persist-a little bit closer, we know where 
ter Stefanie Dolson to just ence and danger of HIV. we’d like to be at the end of the 
seven points, four rebounds Later in the upcoming season, season, it’s just a matter of getting 
and four personal fouls in the team will also host its annual there.” 
25 minutes. Lose the Shoes tournament for a Kickoff against Creighton is at 7 
McGraw said she has chance for students to raise p.m. Monday. 
already seen improved money toward the cause. 
leadership by a few of the The first regular season game Contact Molly Sammon at 
team ’s veterans in for the Irish will be Aug. 27 msammon@nd.edu 
Bruszewski’s absence. 
“[Senior forward] Devereaux Peters has really stepped up with her leader­ship,” McGraw said. “With [senior guard] Natalie Novosel and [senior guard Brittany] Mallory returning, we have a really solid sen­ior presence.” 
Diggins is arguably the most important component to the team ’s fortunes in 2011 -12. The South Bend native burst onto the national scene during the NCAA tournament and quickly became a national celebrity. She gained 10,000 Twitter followers during the national semifinal against Connecticut alone and cur­rently has over 115,000 fol­lowers, making her not only the face of the Irish but also the face of the sport. 
“I think with improved leadership she’ll have the ball in her hands and be the leader on the court, ” McGraw said. “We expect she will continue to improve in a lot of ways really in her demeanor and leadership and how to manage the team. She did a really good job of that [last season].” 
Diggins averaged 15 points per game and 4.8 assists per contest and sparked the Irish to the 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid.  The charge is 3 cents per character per 
day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
AAA Clean 2 BR apartment for rent. Close to ND and Saint Mary's. $530 month + $400 deposit. Rent includes heat, water and trash. Tenant responsible for electric and gas water heater. Coin washer/dryer on-site. Call 574-274-2648. Credit check required. ——————————————— 
3BR House available now. Close to ND/SM campus. Well-kept, cute, clean, laundry and yard. No pets/smoking. Available now. Call 269-429-6346 ——————————————— 3BR 2BA or entire house for rent for ND football. 2 miles from campus. $350 per bedroom or $1000 for entire house. Fri 5:00 pm through Sun 2:00 pm. Responsible parties call 574-286­0321 ——————————————— 
NOTICES 
Everyone on campus is getting cheap eats, movie tickets, 2 for 1's and FREE stuff. 
Get yours too. TEXT IRISH1 to 99000 ——————————————— 
PERSONAL 
Rally sons of Notre Dame, Sing her glory, and sound her fame Raise her Gold and Blue, And cheer with voices true, Rah! Rah! For Notre Dame. 
We will fight in every game Strong of heart and true to her name. We will ne'er forget her ——————————————— 
And we'll cheer her ever, Loyal to Notre Dame. 
Cheer, cheer for Old Notre Dame Wake up the echoes cheering her name, Send the volley cheer on high, Shake down the thunder from the sky, What though the odds be great or small Old Notre Dame will win over all, While her loyal sons are marching Onward to Victory. ——————————————— 
Notre Dame, our Mother Tender, strong and true 
Proudly in the heavens, Gleams thy gold and blue. 
Glory's mantle cloaks thee 
Golden is thy fame, 
And our hearts forever, Praise thee, Notre Dame. 
And our hearts forever, Love thee, Notre Dame. ——————————————— 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Saturday, August 20, 2011 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
2011-12 Notre Dame season seems familiar 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Editor-in-Chief 
As Notre Dame prepares for the 2011-12 season, many things are the exact same as they were a year ago. 
Once again, the Irish reflect on an early-exit from the NCAA tournament. Once again, the team leader has graduated and gone pro. And once again, these items have led to rela­tively low expectations for the upcoming season. 
Last year, those low expecta­tions resulted in a 26-6 record and a No. 5 ranking leading into the NCAA tournament, where the Irish were seeded second in their regional in Chicago. 
“[I’m] thrilled to jump on the bus to come down the toll road over here,” Brey said heading into the opening game against No. 15-seed Akron. 
But when the Irish left Chicago, Brey was not as thrilled, suffering a 71-57 sea­son-ending loss to No. 10-seed Florida State. 
“We’re all really leveled physically and emotionally because we invested so much,” Brey said immediately after­ward. “It’s hard for me to frame the season right now.” 
Brey lost three starters to graduation from that squad — guard Ben Hansbrough and forwards Tyrone Nash and Carleton Scott. 
Hansbrough hoped to follow up his Big East Player of the Year award with a draft pick from the NBA, but did not receive an offer. Facing the NBA lockout, Hansbrough opted to head overseas to Germany to play for FC Bayern Muenchen. 
Nash, who left Notre Dame as the program’s all-time win­ningest player with 96 total wins, also went undrafted and joined a separate professional team in Germany. 
Scott, however, turned pro with one year of eligibility remaining, expecting to hear his name in the draft. He too did not get drafted to the NBA and has caught on with a team in Spain. 
The loss of these three starters and their combined averages of 39.1 points per game, 17.2 rebounds and 9.0 assists forced Notre Dame to turn to newcomers to pick up the slack. But highly-touted recruit Eric Katenda suffered a severed optic nerve this sum­mer, and his career on the court remains uncertain. 
With or without Katenda, Notre Dame’s starting five is yet to be determined. Senior guard Scott Martin and for­ward Tim Abromaitis will likely return to their starting spots, and will most likely be joined by sophomore guard Eric Atkins and junior forward Jack Cooley. Atkins and Cooley were the first two players off Brey’s bench throughout last season. 
The fifth piece of the puzzle will come down to a competi­tion between junior guard Joey Brooks and sophomore guards Alex Dragicevich and Jerian Grant. Neither of the sopho­mores saw playing time last season. 
Another unknown is Notre Dame’s complete schedule, although some games are set. The Irish will face Big East opponents Connecticut, Rutgers and West Virginia twice apiece and play a game at Gonzaga. The team will also appear in the CBE Classic, where Notre Dame will host Detroit and Sam Houston State at home and face Missouri and either Cal or Georgia in Kansas City. 
The full schedule will be released later this fall. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 


Saturday, August 20, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Halfpenny settles in as new Irish head coach 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
New Irish coach Christine Halfpenny shifted gears as soon as she learned she had earned the Notre Dame job. On the sidelines of a high school camp, Halfpenny quick­ly moved on from recruiting for William & Mary and start­ed pitching Notre Dame. 
“I was elated,” Halfpenny said. “I was excited. But I knew I had to get to work for the University of Notre Dame.” 
Halfpenny left William & Mary to replace longtime Irish coach Tracy Coyne, who led the women’s lacrosse squad for the first 15 years of the program. Coyne led the Irish to a Final Four berth in 2006 and a Big East championship in 2009 on her way to 147 wins with Notre Dame. 
“[Coyne] left big shoes to fill,” Halfpenny said. “She did an outstanding job putting them on the map. She had announcing Halfpenny’s hir­ing. 
While at Duke, Halfpenny helped the Blue Devils earn a 
3.46 team grade-point aver­age, the best in the nation. 
“I realized the importance of structure, commitment and dedication,” Halfpenny said. “I learned how to maximize effort and efficiency.” 
At William & Mary, Halfpenny’s Tribe teams not only earned a combined 59 CAA Commissioner’s Academic Awards in the classroom, but also amassed five All-American selections on the field. 
“We set goals for our girls,” she said. “We are organized with our time management. We want our girls to graduate and dominate the real world. We need to prepare our girls for life after lacrosse.” 
Halfpenny, while with William & Mary, recruited many of the current Irish play­ers and likens her new job to a 
reunion of sorts. She 

a big task as one of t h e first Midwest programs.”  “I realized the importance of strucure, commitment and dedication. I learned  believes her p e r s o n n e l will fit nicely into her sys­ 
Halfpenny’s William & Mary teams  how to maximize effort and effciency.”  tem and d e s c r i b e s them as  
set single-sea­ strong, fast,  
son for  recor ds points,  Christine Halfpenny Irish coach  e n e r g e t i c and proud.  

goals, draw controls, caused turnovers and saves during her tenure. Her last four Tribe squads topped the 10-win plateau. The Virginia Tech alumna also worked as an assistant coach and recruiting coordinator at Duke, where she reeled in some of the top classes in the country. 
“From a coaching, recruiting and academic standpoint, she understands exactly what the expectations are here at Notre Dame and what it will take for our program to take the next set of steps forward,” Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick said in a press release “Without 
questi on, Chris is the right person at the right time to lead out pro­gram,” Deputy Director of Athletics Bill Scholl said at the press conference introducing Halfpenny. 
Elite facilities like the Loftus Center and Arlotta Stadium coupled with stellar recruiting resources have Halfpenny thinking big. 
“We want to win a Big East championship, make a Final Four and ultimately, win a national championship,” she said. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
MEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish fall after historic season 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
In what was supposed to be a grand finale to a trail­blazing regular season, the premature ending was all too familiar for the Irish coaches and players. 
Following a first round vic­tory over unseeded Penn (8­7, 4-2 Ivy League), No. 4 Notre Dame (11-3, 5-1 Big East) was ousted from the NCAA tournament by No. 5 Duke (14-6, 3-0 ACC) for the second consecutive year, this time in the quarterfinals by the score of 7-5. 
“It was almost an anecdote to the championship game last year [which Notre Dame lost 6-5 in overtime],” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. “We outplayed them for a significant part of the game but didn’t cash in on oppor­tunities. It was kind of a strange way to, for the sec­ond year in a row, begin the season with a win against Duke and end the season with a loss [against Duke].” 
No. 6 in the preseason polls, the Irish enjoyed early success as they rattled off 10 straight wins to start the season (including a 12 -7 defeat of Duke in week one) en route to securing the first No. 1 ranking in program history April 18. However, after only two weeks atop the polls, Notre Dame fell to Syracuse (15-2, 6-0 Big East) and North Carolina (10-6, 1­2 ACC) in consecutive weeks to end the regular season. Although they seemed to have limped into the post­season, the Irish regained their momentum with an opening round 13-6 victory over Penn. 

“It was probably our best game we had played all year,” junior attack Sean Rogers said of the game against Penn. “Coming off of two losses … we really had to step it up, and we did.” 
The Irish jumped out to an early 4-0 lead against the Quakers, and outscored their opponent 5-1 in the second half. Senior attack Colin Igoe added one assist to his three goals as he recorded a career high four points. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, they were not able to repli­cate their goal-scoring per­formance from the first round game in the round of eight. The Irish were, how­ever, very much in the game until the final quarter, when Duke netted three goals to run away with the contest. Notre Dame’s inability to convert scoring opportuni­ties into goals, a deficiency which plagued the team all year, caught up to the Irish once again. 
“Our problem this year against Duke was our shoot­ing accuracy, and we didn’t make most of our shots and couldn’t put [the ball] in the back of the net,” sophomore goalie John Kemp said. 
The Irish outshot Duke 34­28, won 11 of the 16 faceoff attempts, scooped up nine more ground balls and com­mitted three fewer turnovers than the Blue Devils. Despite the lingering disappointment from their second round loss, Notre Dame’s successful regular season served to establish the program as one of the nation’s elite. 
“All in all, it was a good year, but this team had aspi­rations to win a national championship,” Corrigan said. “We spent three or four weeks at No 1. We were the last team to be undefeated. We played as a top-five team all year, and I think that was very satisfying in a sense because we felt like we belonged, but [we] didn’t fin­ish the year with a ring like we all hoped.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Saturday, August 20, 2011 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
MEN’S GOLF 
Young team strives to 
Irish boast tough schedule 
By CONOR KELLY 
replicate last season 
Sports Writer 
By JACK HEFFERON the fall. The schedule opens After a successful 2011 spring 
Sports Writer at the Golfweek Conference 
— which included a Big East Challenge in Colorado, which 
championship and a 10th place 
is comprised of the top teams finish in the NCAA tournament 
Coming off a season that from each of the major 
— Irish coach Jim Kubinski said included a Big East champi-Division I conferences. The 
the biggest victory of the spring onship, a top-Irish will also 
campaign was his squad’s new­25 ranking travel to North 
found belief in themselves as true and their first Carolina for a 
competitors on the national NCAA cham -pair of highly 
scene. pionship “We feel good about competiti ve 
“You know, we were right up berth, the tournaments. 
there for the lead through 27 
getting back to those
challenge for “This fall 
holes at the NCAA champi­the Irish will championships.” schedule will 
onship,” Kubinski said. now be to be the most 
“Obviously you have to play 54 replicate past chall engi ng 
holes, but my guys really started 
Susan Holt 
success and we ’ve ever to feel that they didn’t just want 
Irish coach
turn their program into a national powerhouse. With the loss of Katie Conway and So-Hyun Park to graduation and sophomore Nicole Zhang leaving the team, Notre Dame returns this year as a much younger team. The expectations, though, are just as high. 
“We’ve got some very tal­ented players to fill the spots we had vacated,” Irish coach Susan Holt said. “We feel good about getting back to those championships.” 
Those spots will be filled by another strong recruiting class assembled by Holt, which features freshmen Ashley Armstrong and Kelli Oride. Armstrong has already won over 20 events in her short career, and Oride is ranked as a top-20 recruit. Together, Holt believes they will be a huge factor for the Irish in the upcoming season. 
“These freshmen are already experienced, talent­ed players,” Holt said. “They will have to get up to speed with what we do here, but we’re expecting them to have a big impact immediately.” 
The task of helping the freshmen adjust will fall on the shoulders of Notre Dame’s three upperclassmen: sophomore Kristina Nhim and seniors Katie Allare and Becca Huffer. After the departure of team leaders Conway and Park, Huffer will have to pick up where they left off, both on the course and in the locker room. 
“Katie and So-Hyun meant a lot to this program,” Holt said. “[Huffer] is our top returning player and she’s had a really solid three years for us already. She’s going to be in a leadership role for us, and she will be able to help out the freshmen.” 
With a cohesive team of five talented golfers, Notre Dame will look for its first repeat as Big East champion since 2004. Lurking as always, though, will be Louisville. The Irish and Cardinals have won eight of the nine Big East champi ­
onships since the tourna ­ment began in 2003. Last spring, it was Notre Dame’s win at the Big East that pro­pelled them to their unprece­dented NCAA success. 
“The Big East is a focus for us every year, ” Holt said. “We definitely feel good about our chances to repeat.” 
Before they get there though, they will face a diffi­cult slate of tournaments in memory, Kubinski said. 
“Stanford, Texas, Augusta State — the defending national champions — they’re all on our schedule,” he said. “If we get through the fall season fine, it will put us in a fantastic position for NCAAs in the spring.” 
Though the team will not for­mally practice together until Wednesday, its individual mem­bers have hardly been compla­cent during the summer. All healthy Irish golfers, including three incoming freshmen, have played in junior tournaments since the end of the spring sea­son. Senior Max Scodro will com­pete in the U.S. Amateur Championship Monday. Scodro shined toward the end of the spring and is set to lead the Irish this fall along with classmate Tom Usher, once Usher recovers from a hand injury. 
“Scodro came into last season as a really solid college player, but he has the chance now to really elevate his game,” Kubinski said. “He’ll be a real leader on our team.” 
Scodro and Usher headline a squad that returns a top-five that saw the lion’s share of time last season. 
Though the loss of Connor Alan-Lee, Dustin Zhang and Justin Chen will be impactful, the Irish have a glut of talented and experienced golfers to choose from, with Scodro and Usher, fel­low senior Chris Walker, junior Paul McNamara and sophomore Niall Platt all returning. 
“We’ll have a lot of skilled golfers on this team, and I can see a number of real competi­tions for spots in our top-five,” Kubinski said. 
After last year’s success, Kubinski expects the squad to progress even further during the 2011-12 season. 
“Last year these guys proved to themselves that they could com­pete. Now they are looking to take it up a level,” he said. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
had,” Holt said. “We hope it shows us where we 
stand heading into the spring.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
or hope to compete, but that they knew they could play well and expected to.” 
The Irish will certainly have the opportunity to test them­selves against the best competi­tion in the country over the next couple of months as they have their toughest schedule in recent 

Saturday, August 20, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
Lee 
continued from page 28 
“The freshmen are going to have to earn their roles, just like every other player,” Jackson said. “But I have high expectations for [players] like Robbie Russo and [right wing] Peter Schneider being able to contribute right away.” 
The buzz of where the Irish will play may actually surpass all this buzz about the possi­bilities once on the ice. After 33 years in the Joyce Center, the brand new Compton Family Ice Arena is scheduled to open for Irish hockey in late October or early November. 
“It’s certainly a long time coming,” Jackson said. “I know our players and entire staff are extremely excited about moving into the new building. 
“We have to stay focused and make sure we respect our present facility while we’re waiting to move into the new building. [But] I think that our fans, our students and the university as a whole will be very proud of this building and the impact it will have on our hockey program and the campus community. 
“We made sure our students 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
are going to have the best seats in the house and hope­fully come out in droves [and] 
Irish poised to rebound, 
the hockey will hopefully be extremely exciting.” 
The Irish play their first exhibition game Oct. 2 against 
fight for Big East crown 
Western Ontario and open 
their regular season with a trip to defending NCAA cham­pion Minnesota-Duluth Oct. 7­
8. UMD ended Notre Dame’s postseason run in April. 
The Irish home-opener takes place Oct. 14 against Ohio State in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 


By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
After a 2010 season in which she saw her team go 18-13 and fall to Cincinnati in the Big East semifinals, Irish coach Debbie Brown has high expectations for improvement in the 2011 cam­paign. With a strong core of expe­rienced players returning and a versatile group of newcomers, the Irish look poised to improve on the results of a year ago. 
“Our goal, as it is every year, is to win the Big East tournament,” Brown said. “We have a tradition and expectation of qualifying for the NCAAs and advancing far. This team certainly has that capa­bility.” 
Brown praised the work of the team through their first three days of practice, citing the cohesion she saw immediately upon the team returning. 
“We’re ahead of schedule at this point and feeling good,” Brown said. 
The Irish return four of their top five offensive players from 2010, including kills and points leader sophomore Andrea McHugh. McHugh represented the United States this summer at the FIVB Junior World Championships in Lima, Peru. Though the United States fell to China in the bronze medal game, the experience helped the Irish prepare for the fall. 


It is not star power, however, that Brown sees as her team’s greatest strength. 
“I’m quite excited about this team’s versatility,” Brown said. “Most of our players are able to move all over the court, left and right, forward and back, especial­ly the newcomers. I’m really pleased with the depth of this squad.” 
The Irish will need that depth in order to compete in a tough Big East slate that includes perennial powerhouses Louisville, Cincinnati, Marquette and Villanova. 
“The whole conference is strong, but these four finished on top last year, and I see them as our stiffest competition,” Brown said. 
In addition, Robin Davis, who led the Irish in 2005 and has served as an assistant coach since 2009, was named associate head coach to assist Brown. Upon his arrival in 2005 Davis helped lead the Irish to five consecutive Big East titles. 
The Irish will begin play at home against Eastern Michigan on Friday. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 

Saturday, August 20, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
included 12 defensive play­ers signing on National 
Kelly 
Signing Day. Of those 12, five 
continued from page 28 
confident that that’s what they’ll be able to do.” 
Perhaps they could do even more. Irish coach Brian Kelly’s first recruiting class 
of his Notre Dame tenure 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer Irish senior defensive end Kapron Lewis-Moore speaks Tuesday during media day. Lewis-Moore recorded 62 tackles last season. 
Ben Councell. 
“Defensively at the line ­backer and defensive line position, we feel like we’ve got enough depth there that we can roll out the next guy,” Kelly said Tuesday. “We had to come in immediately and address the defense. That was easy, we knew where we had to go immediately, and that was on the defensive side of the ball.” 
But with those talented freshmen, come the usual worries with freshmen. 
“The next -man-in on the defensive line is very devel­opmental, as it fits into our structure,” defensive coordi­nator Bob Diaco said. “There is some tangible skill there, but they have so far to go as it relates to being in a game. There’s a lot of players that the whirlwind of a gameday weekend impacts very differ­ently.” 
Fortunately, the heralded freshmen can rely on a vet­eran defense to show them the ropes. The Irish return nine starters, only losing out­side linebacker Brian Smith and defensive tackle Ian Williams — currently signed by the Cleveland Browns and the San Francisco 49ers, respectively. Sophomore line­backer Prince Shembo will likely split time with junior received four-star rankings from multiple recruiting experts, including defensive ends Stephon Tuitt, Aaron Lynch and Ishaq Williams, who has been moved to out­side linebacker to join class­mates Anthony Rabasa and Dan Fox to fill Smith’s min­utes, and senior Sean Cwynar will share time with 326-pound sophomore Louis Nix in the middle of the line. Cwynar saw extensive play­ing time last season when Williams went down with a knee injury, giving him the experience of a 10th starter, if not the title. 


“This team has been through a complete season now,” Crist said. “We’ve seen the ups and downs of a sea­son … It’s really that same core coming back, and it’s exciting to have guys out and see how hard guys are work­ing every day is a positive.” 
The leader of the defense, junior linebacker Manti Te’o, threw around phrases Tuesday like “the best in the nation” and “BCS bowl,” but his confidence is not simply due to 133 tackles last sea­son. It is a common team theme. 
“No team goes into the sea­son thinking, ‘Oh, we ’re going to win eight games,’” junior offensive tackle Zach Martin said. “But I think this year everyone believes that we can go out and win every game that we play. People are buying in, and I think we’re on the right track.” 
Kelly and his staff have parlayed the rising stature of their defense into a chal ­lenge for its offense as well. Each day in practice, senior cornerback Gary Gray lines up opposite Floyd. Te ’o stares down Crist and Rees. The offense has its work cut out. 
“As strong as our defense is, there is a lot of times that I think [the offense is] doing exceptionally well against them, moving the ball, ” Robinson said. “I think that’s kind of a confidence boost because we know how good our defense is. For us to be able to execute against them and show that we can do well against us really bodes well for us.” 
Yet, the defense ’s job remains the same. No matter what success the last four games of the 2010 season held, no matter what praise the media is throwing about, no matter how glowing Kelly ’s praise is, the job remains simple. 
“We just need to go out there and do our job,” Gray said. “Just handle our busi­ness.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Saturday, August 20, 2011 
Waldrum 
continued from page 28 
are quite familiar with each 
other. Defender Jessica Schuveiller, midfielder Courtney Barg and forward Melissa Henderson have played on the same team since their youth soccer days in Dallas. 
“They’ve been leading for a long time, by their play and by the examples they leave for the team on and off the field,” Waldrum said. “All three have those kind of qualities, and we want them to continue to do that.” 
Henderson, however, does not expect her role to signifi­cantly change from previous years. 
“I don ’t really see too much of a difference,” she said. “I see all 25 of us as leaders and don’t really see myself or Jessica or Courtney as separating our­selves from the team.” 
Notre Dame’s late-season championship run was keyed in large part by a youth influx led by forward Adriana Leon, midfielders Mandy Laddish and Elizabeth Tucker and defender Kecia Morway, all now sophomores. Waldrum expects those playmakers to continue to have an impact on the field. 
“Those kids were key in us winning. From what I see of them right now, I don’t think they’ve skipped a beat,” he said. “I don’t really see in them any kind of a sopho­more slump.” 
Waldrum also expects his newest crop of recruits to begin immediately contribut­ing to the team. Touted by Waldrum as his best class ever, the freshmen have already showed signs of liv­ing up to his expectations. In fact, four freshmen were in the starting lineup during Notre Dame’s 5-0 exhibition victory over Nebraska Aug. 9. 
“All the freshmen I have been [impressed by,] absolutely,” Waldrum said. “They ’ve stepped right in from the beginning and they’ve played just like vet­eran players…I ’m really pleased. They’re all physi­cally ready to do it. They came in fit and just jumped right into the mix. They’re going to have a big impact on our team, no doubt about it.” 
While most of the starting lineup is set, one question mark remains heading into the season. The Irish lost stalwart goalkeeper Nikki Weiss to graduation and are currently deciding on a new starting goalkeeper. Junior Maddie Fox and freshmen Jennifer Jasper and Sarah Voigt are all competing for starting time between the posts, and Waldrum has not decided on a long -term starter. 
“It ’s hard to replace [Weiss] because she had some experience under her belt and had played in a number of big games, and Maddie’s really not done that yet,” Waldrum said. “I think that’s going to be key, how she responds to it. I do think Sarah is going to push her quite a bit and of course we’ve got Jen Jasper in there pushing as well. 
“I’m not sure ultimately who’s going to take the reins … That’s the one question I’ve probably got a little bit unanswered right now.” 
As they embark on the well,” She said. “I’m really, quest to defend their title, really excited for this year. the Irish Our team has been r e m a i n working hard and 
confident “Our team has been everyone ’s on the they will same page to really 
working hard and
be in a get another nation-position to everyone’s on the al championship.” accom-same page to really Notre Dame plish that opened its season 
get another national
goal come Friday night by November. championship.” hosting Wisconsin “Ye ah, after this edition expecta -went to press. The 
Melissa Henderson 
tion levels Irish travel to North 
Irish forward 
are high Carolina to face the and the perennial title-con­goals are big, but I think by tenders Aug. 26 and will the end of the year we ’re host Tulsa at Alumni going to be good again, ” Stadium on Sept. 2. Waldrum said. 
Henderson agrees. Contact Allan Joseph at “The team’s really doing ajoseph2@nd.edu 


Saturday, August 20, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 



JEFF KNUREK
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports
Saturday, August 20, 2011 page 28 
FOOTBALL 
Defensive swagger 
Irish defense building toughness and depth 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Editor-in-Chief 
Over the past eight months, the talk surrounding Notre Dame football has revolved around the offense. Meanwhile, the talk within Notre Dame football has focused on the Irish defense. 
While senior receiver 
Michael Floyd served his 
suspension and sophomore 
Tommy Rees battled senior 
Dayne Crist for the starting 
quarterback position, the 
defense has built on its 
strong finish to last season, 
when it stifled opponents 
such as Utah and USC. 
“They were able to play some very good teams and not just beat them, but domi­nate them, ” Irish senior 
offensive guard Trevor Robinson said Tuesday at the annual Media Day. “I am 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Irish junior linebacker Manti Te’o, center, works out during the team’s first practice Aug. 6. see KELLY/page 25 The Irish will open the season against South Florida Sept. 3 in Notre Dame Stadium. 

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
McGraw eyes trip to title game 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
Following a magical run in the 2011 NCAA tournament, a Hall of Fame induction for Irish coach Muffet McGraw in the summer with junior guard Skylar Diggins leading the way, Notre Dame faces some of the highest expecta­tions it has ever seen in McGraw’s 25 years at the helm. 
The 2010-11 season ended with a 76-70 loss to Texas A&M in the championship game after it upset No. 1 seeds Tennessee and Connecticut, a squad that had defeated the Irish three times before the Final Four matchup in Indianapolis. 
“We didn’t win so I think we came away with a feeling of disappointment that we 
see MCGRAW/page 17 
HOCKEY 
Squad to rely on senior class for deeper postseason run 
Lorenz — is also back, along been around. They’ve seen the “Obviously, for freshmen [last personal pressure on them-
By SAM GANS 
with junior goaltender Mike situation we had a couple of year], they had a real good selves, that’s when sophomore
Sports Writer 
Johnson. years ago (13-17-8 in 2009-season,” Jackson said. “I jinxes fall into place.” A class of five seniors is 2010) and how we responded expect some of those guys to While this year’s freshman 
After the program’s second expected to lead the way, led and had good leadership last elevate their games — guys class does not have as many trip to the Frozen Four capped by Maday and Lorenz. They year. So they’ve seen the differ-like [right wing] Mike Voran, players as last year’s class, last season, the Irish return are the only seniors who ence.” [right wing] Bryan Rust, Jackson is hoping for another with high expectations. played in more than eight Jackson is also looking for [defenseman] Shayne Taker, big year from his first-year 
Three of the top four point games last season. increased leadership from a [defenseman] Kevin Lind and contributors. Led by defense-scorers from last year’s Irish Despite the lack of quantity, large sophomore class. Tynan, [goaltender] Steven man Robbie Russo, a fourth squad, sophomore centers T.J. Irish coach Jeff Jackson sees a third round draft pick by the Summerhays. I think that a lot round New York Islanders Tynan and Anders Lee and Maday and Lorenz as capable Columbus Blue Jackets in June, of [handling expectations] is draft pick, the five members senior right wing Billy Maday, leaders. led all NCAA freshmen with 54 about making sure they stayed will each have the opportunity return. The CCHA’s top defen-“I would expect both of them points last season, Lee finished focused on being in the to earn playing time. sive defenseman award winner to be important in a leadership second on the Notre Dame ros-moment and getting better in 2010-2011 — senior Sean role,” Jackson said. “They’ve ter with 44 points. every day, because [if] they put see LEE/page 23 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Irish trio looks for title repeat 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
For most schools, the fol­low -up act to a national championship involves heightened pressure and newly raised expectations. For No. 1 Notre Dame, how­ever, 2011 will just be more 
of the same. “It’s probably no different than every other past year,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “If we can get to the College Cup, it ’s just two games — anything can hap­pen. So the goal is always to get there.” 
Notre Dame returns the majority of its starting line­up from last year, led by a trio of senior captains who 
see WALDRUM/page 26 

MEN’S SOCCER 
High expectations await new additions 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
A No. 12 preseason ranking has Notre Dame looking past the NCAA tournament’s second round, where last season ended. 
“I think this is a very driven squad, they know that we made the NCAA tournament, and we really felt that when it came down to it, we ended with some unfinished business,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “We’d like to make history for the program, and we’ll see where it takes us. They are a driven group that works exceptionally hard, and hopefully that’ll bear some fruit as the season unfolds.” 
Five freshmen join the Irish and their three captains, junior midfielder Dillon Powers, fifth-year senior defender and mid­fielder Greg Klazura and senior defender Aaron Maund, this year. 
“The freshman class has impressed me so far,” Powers said. “I think in particular, their attitude and their willingness to learn have impressed me. Soccer is quite a thinking game, maybe they don’t have the tech­nical skills yet, but their minds are where it’s at.” 
The Irish also welcome a colle­giately-seasoned player onto the team, junior forward and trans­fer from Duke, Ryan Finley, though he will have to spend this 
see CLARK/page 17 





