
Student faces charges after attempted stabbing 
Female sophomore charged with attempted battery, reports victim sexually assaulted her in Nov. 
By SARAH MERVOSH felony, which is punishable by Cabello told police the male charged with a crime related to and/or University policy,” the Managing Editor a maximum sentence of six to student had sexually assaulted Cabello’s allegations of sexual statement said. “Whenever the eight years in prison and up to a her in her dorm room on Nov. assault. University is made aware of a 
The Notre Dame student who $10,000 fine. 20, but she had not reported the University Spokesman Den-sexual assault allegation, we attempted to stab another stu-Cabello attempted to stab a incident to authorities or sought nis Brown released a statement take the report seriously and dent in a dorm room earlier this male student acquaintance in a medical treatment. She also on behalf of the University on conduct a prompt and thorough week was charged Wednesday Siegfried Hall dorm room Sun-declined medical treatment fol-Wednesday evening. investigation.” by the county prosecutor. day. After a short struggle, the lowing the incident on Sunday. “Notre Dame is deeply trou-Cabello told police she went to 
Sophomore Vanessa Cabello male student was able to take The male student said the sex bled by these events and contin-the male’s room Sunday to dis-was charged with attempted control of the knife and locked was consensual. The Observer ues to take all appropriate action cuss frustration she had felt to-battery, according to the affi-Cabello in the room until Notre is not naming the male student to ensure the safety of everyone ward him since the alleged sex davit posted on WNDU’s web-Dame Security Police (NDSP) ar-because he is the alleged victim involved and hold accountable site. The offense is a class C rived, the affidavit stated. of a crime, and has not been those who have violated the law see CHARGES/page 6 

Sexual assault policy encourages reporting 

By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
In the eyes of Associate Vice President for Residential Life Heather Russell, more reports of sexual assault can be good news. 
This is because for Russell, more reports mean less si­lence. 
“When we’re doing this right … the number of peo­ple reporting is going to go way up,” Russell said. “I don’t think that’s because there is anything new under the sun. I believe it’s because we are actually creating a system that people think works and a culture of reporting, and some people who have been silent in the past will come forward.” 
Russell serves as the Uni­versity’s Deputy Title IX coor­dinator, which means that she is the first point of contact for all reports of sexual assault on campus. 


Russell’s position is a new one not only at Notre Dame, but at most college campuses across the United States. The job is a product of the “Dear Colleague” letter issued in April by the Office of Civil Rights (OCR) in the Depart­ment of Education. 
The letter called for all col 

see ASSAULT/page 6 


Forum organizers reflect, plan spring events 

By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
As the first semester comes to a close, organiz­ers of this year’s Notre Dame Forum are pleased with the events that have taken place and are preparing for a full agenda next semester, said Nicole Stelle Garnett, Forum committee co-chair and law professor at Notre Dame. 
This year’s Forum topic, “Reimagining School,” has already brought several prominent figures to cam­pus, including former Flor­ida Gov. Jeb Bush and New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie. 
“From the very beginning, we’ve believed that the pri­mary purpose of this year’s Forum should be to provide a space for Notre Dame as a university community … to 
JAMES DOAN/The Observer 

Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush delivered a Forum address on Sept. 26 advocating radical education reforms. 

be as imaginative as possible in forging a meaningful re­sponse to the challenges and opportunities that currently confront at risk schools and schoolchildren,” Garnett said. “We still have a whole semester to go, but I’ve been extremely gratified by what we’ve seen so far.” 
The Forum kicked off on Sept. 26 with an address from former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush. 
“I think his keynote was the perfect way to launch the Forum,” Garnett said. “He’s established a legacy for ag­gressively pushing some fairly radical reforms de­spite significant opposition … It was just the right way to begin a year of ‘reimagin­ing’ education.” 

see FORUM/page 5 
Professor says stats candeceive 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Several Notre Dame economics professors said the latest unem­ployment numbers, released by the U.S. Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics last week, should be taken with a grain of salt. 
The numbers show a .4 percent decrease in unemployment, go­ing from 9 percent to 8.6 percent from the end of October to the end of November, according to the Bureau. 
Economics professor Eric Sims said that the reason this number has fallen may not be a good one. 
“The numbers mask some stuff,” he said. “The unemploy­ment percentage is the ratio of people actively seeking work and not working to the number of people in the work force, which is all the people wanting jobs.” 
While the number of jobs did increase by around 120,000, what changed the number most was around 315,000 people leav­ing the work force — meaning they are no longer working and no longer actively seeking em­ployment, according to Sims. 
“Most of what drove the num­bers was people dropping out of the work force, not new job cre­ation,” he said. “We have a term for these people —‘discouraged worker.’ These are people who have been looking for work and are going to quit looking.” 
However, Sims said there are also other reasons why people drop out, such as women who be­come mothers and decide to stay home with their child. 
Assistant economics professor Abigail Wozniak said the number 
see JOBS/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Team discovers forum page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Movies to see over break page 10 u Women’s basketball wins Big East opener page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT’S YOUR FAVORITE DISTRACTION FROM STUDYING? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Emily Schrank Andrew Gastelum Adam Llorens Jack Hefferon Tori Roeck Walker Carey Graphics Scene Elisa DeCastro Alexandra Photo Kilpatrick Mackenzie Sain Viewpoint Amber Galick  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 36 LOW 33 


Nico Giraldo  Kelly Passabet  Erin Walters  Teresa Lester  Leon Zhou  Evan Danieli  
freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  senior  senior  
Zahm  Pasquerilla East  Farley  Farley  Stanford  off-campus  
“People  “Making lists of  “Thinking about  “Skyping and  “Answering the  “Slayin’  
watching.”  what I should be  how awesome  Facebook.”  Question of the  hoodrats.”  
studying while  it’ll be when I  Day. And my  
actually doing  get all of my  bed.”  
none of it.”  work done,  
while doing zero  

work.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Man acquitted in mistaken marten assault 
MONTESANO, Wash. — A jury has acquitted a Wash­ington man accused of breaking into a home and throwing a dead mink at another man during a con­frontation that made wea­sel headlines across the country. 
Defense lawyer Chris Crew said Monday that 33-year-old Jobie J. Wat­kins of Hoquiam was found not guilty of burglary. 
Police said Watkins was carrying the dead animal when he went to the other man’s apartment look­ing for his ex-girlfriend on June 6. The other man said he was struck after he asked Watkins why he had a dead weasel and Watkins reportedly insisted that it was a marten. 

Crew said witnesses provided inconsistent ac­counts and the “prosecu­tion failed to prove a link to the mink.” 
The Daily World of Aber­deen reports Watkins never explained why he had the carcass. 
Pizza delivery woman lies about heist 
PAHRUMP, Nev. — Au­thorities say a Nevada pizza delivery driver made up a story that she was robbed, including detailed descrip­tions that led to composite sketches of two men. 
Nye County Sheriff’s De­tective David Boruchowitz says 27-year-old Keri Rush was arrested Tuesday af­ter an investigation of her report that she was robbed after a pizza delivery Mon­day night in Pahrump, about 60 miles west of Las Vegas. 
According to investiga­tors, Rush claimed two black men approached her, demanded money and ran off. She described the two in detail — including their height, weight and cloth­ing — and police released sketches of the men to the public. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The Office of Sustainabil­ity and GreeND will sponsor a free coffee giveaway for students who bring reusable mugs between 9 and 11:30 
a.m. and 1:30 and 3:30 p.m. today outside of DeBartolo Hall. 
The Insights from Fore­sight presentation will take place today at 5 p.m. in the Atrium of the Mendoza Col­lege of Business. Projects by teams of business majors will be on display. At 6:30 p.m., Dean Cycon, founder and CEO of Dean’s Beans Or­ganic Coffee Company, will give a talk titled “Sustain­able Business as a Vehicle for Social Change” in the Jordan Auditorium. 
The classic Christmas film “It’s a Wonderful Life” will screen in the DeBartolo Per­forming Arts Center tonight at 6:30 p.m. Tickets are $3 for students. 
The student a cappella group Halftime will perform its winter concert tonight at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are $3 for students. 
The Notre Dame Colle­gium Musicum fall concert will take place tonight at 7 
p.m. and again at 8:30 p.m. at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for students. 
The film “Edward Scis­sorhands” will screen to­night at 9:30 p.m. in the DeBartolo  Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 










HIGH 29 LOW 19 
HIGH 28 LOW 26 

HIGH 36 LOW 28 
HIGH 40 LOW 32 

-


Students present to Hope Ministries 
Forum 
continued from page 1 
Two days later, the Forum brought four experts in edu­cation, including the founder of Teach for America, to cam­pus for a panel discussion. 
“That was a compelling event on a number of fronts,” she said. “What struck me most at the time, and what has continued to stay with me, was how it helped clarify just how important it is that we as a university continue to expand and enhance our investment in at risk schools and schoolchildren.” 
New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie delivered the keynote address for the symposium, “Educational Innovation and the Law” in November. 
“It was interesting to hear an elected official discuss his experience with K-12 educa­tion, as well as to challenge the Notre Dame community to think critically about what it can to do make a systemic and sustainable impact in this field,” Garnett said. 
Garnett said Forum or­ganizers have a full agenda planned for the second semes­ter. 
On Jan. 27, Terry Moe, pro­fessor of political science at Stanford University, will come to campus. 



By MADELINE MILES 
News Writer 
After an entire semester of research, social work ma­jors at Saint Mary’s College presented their final proj­ects to the director of Hope Ministries in South Bend on Wednesday afternoon. 
Social work professor Fran Kominkiewicz’s class of so­cial work majors conducted surveys with the residents of Hope Ministries, which serves as a homeless shelter and an agency to assist peo­ple during touch economic times. 
“The students rose to the occasion beautifully,” Kominkiewicz said. “This project was a chance for them to look at agencies like Hope Ministries in the South Bend community and deter­mine what Saint Mary’s can do to give back.” 
Two groups of Saint Mary’s seniors presented their re­search on different aspects of homelessness in South Bend to the director of the local shelter and agency. 
The first project focused on the health and lifestyle of the homeless, specifically diet, exercise and smoking. 
The research showed that 80 percent of residents smoke a pack of cigarettes a day. 
Eighty-five percent of resi­dents also indicated walking as their primary form of ex­ercise, most likely due to a lack of transportation. And although Hope Ministries does have a workout facility, 65 percent of residents have never used it. 
“We found that updat­ing the workout program or implementing a yoga class would be a waste of resourc­es,” senior group member Aileen Hurd said. “We rec­ommended more educational resources on understanding the importance of healthier choices.” 
Senior Sarah Shoff said she had suggestions regarding nutrition at the Hope Minis­tries shelter. 

“There is a positive trend in eating meals in Hope’s kitchen and being over­weight,” Shoff said. “It might be beneficial to expand their selection at Hope of healthy eating choices.” 
The second project fo­cused on housing, or lack thereof, for the homeless in South Bend. 
“The point of our research was to see what the home­less consider as housing op­tions,” senior Lauren Toth said. “And also, to see the barriers of receiving hous­ing.” 
The group surveyed resi­dents on their housing histo­ry, educational background and employment. 
Toth said the group’s big­gest finding was a high in­stance of unemployment. 
Senior Alma Bravo said she was shocked at the edu­cation level of the residents of Hope Ministries. 
“More than half had a high school diploma,” Bravo said. “It wasn’t like they hadn’t had any sort of education. We concluded the state of the economy is contributing to the lack of jobs.” 
The group also took into account the housing history of the homeless. 
“In terms of housing his­tory, some were so scat­tered that there was never a stable living situation,” Toth said. “It was interest­ing to see where people were in the past and to see where they wanted to be in the fu­ture and whether or not it was actually obtainable for them.” 
Both groups hope the agency will take results of their research into consid­eration. 
“I think Hope Ministries would do well if they put more emphasis on finding employment,” Toth said. “Because without monetary gain, personal housing is difficult to achieve.” 
Contact Madeline Miles at mmiles01@saintmarys.edu 
we’ve planned for the spring will provide an opportunity for some very serious conver­sation about where many of the ‘fault lines’ in K-12 edu­cation and education policy currently lie,” she said. “We want to foster serious conver­sation that can help surface some ideas on the varied roles that Notre Dame can — and must — play in service to K-12 schooling.” 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 

“Terry is a nationally ac­claimed political scientist and author of several ground­breaking books on K-12 edu­cation,” Garnett said. 
The second semester will also include keynotes from Kathleen McCartney, the dean of the Harvard School of Edu­cation, and Diane Ravitch, a well-known historian of edu­cation, she said. 
Garnett said she has high expectations for the remain­ing Forum events. 
“I’m hopeful that the events 
Jobs 
continued from page 1 
of jobs created might be around the number needed to keep the 
U.S. economy stable, but there needs to be more. 
“That number — 120,000 — is about the number of new jobs we need per month,” she said. “But this won’t put us in a positive growth. To really keep people out of unemployment, we need about 200,000 jobs a month.” 
Sims said initial positive re­ports might have been overzeal­ous. 
“I think there was an initial hysteria over good numbers,” he said. “These numbers are just from surveys — I think there’s a decent chance that, with more time, the job growth numbers will be revised.” 
Most of the job growth was in are those in selective fields with skills that aren’t necessarily job-related. They learn how to write and communicate.” 
She said she would like to see policy makers focus on making programs for these skills. 
“A lot of people see construction as an economic indicator,” she said. “I’d like to move away from this — these are unskilled work­ers. It’s not a great sector for the workers in it, because they don’t have skills for other sectors.” 
Both professors said students entering the job market should be patient. 
“Those numbers mean we still aren’t seeing much of a recovery,” Sims said. “It’s a bad job market. Don’t be too discouraged.” 
Wozniak said this economic state might be cause for concern for graduating seniors. 
“Students should keep in mind that unemployment numbers are higher for young people,” she said. 
Ultimately, these numbers don’t tell the most accurate story, Sims said. 
“The unemployment rate is imperfect measure, it provides an imperfect picture,” he said. “What the economy needs is peo­ple moving from unemployed to employed, not unemployed to no longer looking for employment.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


the private sector, with govern­ment jobs decreasing, he said. 
“Most jobs were in services, like retail, but there was not much change in construction or manu­facturing,” he said. “We won’t see a better employment picture un­til we see more construction and manufacturing jobs.” 
Wozniak, however, cautioned against construction. She said workers in this sector might not have skills for jobs in other sec­tors, which leaves them vulner­able. 
“As a labor economist, I’m more concerned with the long run,” she said. “I’m concerned with train­ing and skill of workers. We need to do a lot more with people com­ing out of high school, especially with even more skills and second­ary education. 
“Growth in manufacturing is good, but it’s never going to be the main engine for growth. …Work­ers doing best in this economy 

Assault 
continued from page 1 
leges to more strongly imple­ment Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, which prohibits sexual discrimina­tion at institutions that receive federal funds. Russell said the letter required the University to create her position as well as a more clearly outlined in­vestigation process for sexual assault. 
While she could not comment on specific cases, Russell said the number of reports this se­mester has already exceeded the number she expected for the entire year. 
Under the microscope 
Even as Notre Dame imple­mented these Title IX changes, Russell said the OCR had an­other concern. 
“At the same time, the OCR had come forward to Notre Dame and asked if we would do a voluntary compliance review, and Notre Dame agreed,” Rus­sell said. 
Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Tom Doyle said the OCR approached the University in fall 2010. 
“They visited campus, they interviewed people, they looked at particular cases,” Doyle said. “At the end of that review, they wrote a letter that is a public document that basically was what their findings were. They spent about half of the letter commending Notre Dame for the things that are included in its policies and practices … and then they spent about half the letter making suggestions.” 
In the letter, the OCR said its investigation was “agency-ini­tiated,” not based on a specific complaint. 
“OCR’s investigation followed an internal review of previous­ly filed cases against the uni-
Charges 
continued from page 1 
ual assault. She said she brought the knife as “self-defense,” ac­cording to the affidavit. 
Police saw “superficial cuts” on Cabello’s wrists when they entered the room Sunday, but Cabello said the male student had not threatened or struck her in the past or during the in­cident in his room. 
University Spokesman Dennis Brown declined to comment on the status of Cabello’s enroll­ment at Notre Dame, but said the University reserves the right “to temporarily dismiss any student who is charged with a felony.” 
Brown said the University did not issue an email alert to the versity, and recent articles in the press about Notre Dame’s handling of sexual assault complaints, including one in­cident in which a student com­mitted suicide after reporting that she was sexually assault­ed by another student,” the 
letter stated. dent could de­
“If the accused of the 
Earlier that cide to pursue 
complainant had any 
fall, Saint disciplinary 
questions about what is 
Mary’s stu-action, crimi­dent Lizzy the process, what happens nal justice, or Seeberg com-next, that SARC is their neither. mitted suicide resource person through If the stu­after alleging the entire process.” dent decides that a Notre not to pursue Dame football those options, 
Heather Russell 
player sexu-the Univer­
associate vice president 
ally assaulted sity can still 
Residence Life 
her. move forward 
Doyle said on either Seeberg’s front without death and the the student’s investigation did fall in prox-participation. Any disciplin­imity to one another. ary action through the Office 
“Whether or not there is cau-of Residence Life must also be sality there, I don’t know,” he completed within the OCR’s 60­said. day timeframe. 
“So it’s a very much refined New process way of shepherding a case from 
Russell said the new Title beginning to end in a way that IX process must be condensed we hope is humane and kind within 60 days, a new require-and just,” Russell said. “I think ment from the Department of the thing that has been para-Education. mount in my mind throughout 
These 60 days begin when a all of this is, what are we do-victim reports an assault to a ing both in terms of what OCR non-confidential source — typi-asked of us but what we believe cally anyone who is not a dorm is right.” rector or a member of campus ministry. Changes in ResLife 
This person then reports the As the new Title IX process names of the student, date, took effect, the University dis-time, location and brief de-ciplinary process changed scription of the assault to Rus-slightly as well to reflect the sell. Both the accused and the OCR’s recommendations. complainant are then assigned Brian Coughlin, associate a sexual assault resource coor-vice president for Student Af­dinator (SARC). The complain-fairs, and Kathleen O’Leary, di­ant and the accused are to have rector of Community Standard, no contact after this point, Rus-applied the results of the OCR sell said. review to the sexual assault 
“If the accused or the com-policy outlined in du Lac. plainant had any questions O’Leary said two significant about what is the process, what changes to the disciplinary happens next, that SARC is process took effect this semes­
student body, as is customary in incidents of crime against stu­dents, because NDSP mitigated the threat in a prompt manner. 
“A timely warning was not is­sued because the alleged assail­ant was immediately detained by NDSP and therefore was not a threat to the community,” he said. 
The University statement said the circumstances leading to the charges against Cabello were “immediately and thor­oughly” investigated by NDSP and turned over to local law en­forcement. 
“The University has and will continue to work with the au­thorities as this matter proceeds through the criminal justice system,” the statement said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
their resource person through the entire process,” Russell said. 
An investigator compiles a full report on the incident for Russell, and then she meets with the complainant to talk about the next step. This stu­

ter. 
The first change allows the complainant to ask to be in a separate room from the ac­cused during the disciplinary hearing, O’Leary said. 
“I think providing the com­plainant some reasonable al­ternatives to not be in the same room is bringing us up to speed with other institutions,” she said. 
The second change involves the case review process after a disciplinary hearing. O’Leary said now either the complain­ant or the accused can request a case review “based on either a procedural defect that 
“All in all, I think that what we’ve learned and how we’ve gone through the process is a really good thing,” Coughlin said. “I think that we hope that we do enough in terms of pre­vention and education that we won’t ever have to use it, but the reality is that we probably will.” A ‘life-giving’ process 
Though the changes are still new, Russell said early feed­back on the new processes is positive. 
“Both complainants and ac­cused have commented on how helpful it has been to have a SARC, that sexual assault 

occurred dur­ “We do need to have the  resource  per­ 
ing the dis­ciplinary re­view process or based on the discovery of substantive new informa­tion that was unava ila ble to them at the time of the  community understand what the obligations are for reporting and the processes, but to my mind, the real conversations are the conversations that help us as a kind of community to create the kind of community where sexual assault  son who has been their first point of contact,” Rus­sell said. As she con­tinues in her new position, Russell said she hopes for the process  
hearing.”  does not exist.”  to  be  “life- 
Previously,  giving” for the  
only the ac­cused could request a case review.  Fr. Tom Doyle vice president Student Affairs  students who go through it. Despite pos­itive signs af- 
O ’ L e a r y  ter one semes­ 
said her office  ter, Doyle said  

has not dealt with any cases in-the University needs to con­volving sexual assault yet this tinue to hold itself to a higher year, so she cannot gauge how standard. effective these changes will be “Where would we like to be in the future. a year from now?” Doyle asked 
After this summer’s changes, rhetorically. “We do need to Coughlin said continuing to up-have the community under-date the sexual assault policy stand what the obligations are reflects the fact that “sexual for reporting and the process-assault isn’t something that es, but to my mind, the real [only] happens to a University conversations are the conver­or a University community, but sations that help us as a com-to an individual as well.” munity to create the kind of 
Coughlin said he hoped the community where sexual as-changes would improve the ex-sault does not exist.” perience for everyone involved with the sexual assault poli-Contact Megan Doyle at cies. mdoyle11@nd.edu 

— 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, December 8, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Leave Santa alone 
Here’s a Christmas surprise: some parents have argued that Santa — with his round belly and universal appeal — might be contributing to the rise in childhood obesity. 
Santa’s entire lifestyle is physi­cally inactive. He’s confined to his home in the North Pole, where it’s too cold to go for a jog outside or even walk his reindeer. 

And while Mrs. Claus is an excel­lent cook, she’s no health freak, actually beat­ing Paula Deen in a butter drinking contest on a visit to Deen’s show last month. “Sorry to burst your bubble, Paula dear,” Mrs. Claus said, “but we use even more but­ter up North.” 
When Santa’s off delivering gifts, he sits in the sleigh while the reindeers do all the work. He then falls down chim­neys, which takes zero cardiovascular effort. And the millions of cookies he consumes on Christmas Eve? Even the harshest New Year’s diet resolution can’t remedy that indulgence. 
But Mrs. Claus said it’s “ridiculous” to say her husband is negatively affect­ing children’s health. “He’s been this way for years, and the obesity epidem­ic is very recent,” she said. “Plus it’s fundamentally wrong to think we will ever sauté tofu or grill Boca burgers.” 
Mrs. Claus added that with toys and elves crowding the house, there’s hardly room for a few hand weights, let alone a treadmill. “To be frank, I’m glad he keeps the weight on,” she said. “It’s kind of endearing.” But does this excuse the unhealthy image he promotes to children? Yes, it does. Be­cause “too many calories” is a phrase that kids are learning far too early. Because all they really need to know is “moderation.” Because obesity is often linked to stress or unhappiness. Santa makes kids happy. So why criticize the jolly old guy? 
The “health” craze has gotten extreme. It wouldn’t be surprising if some parents now tell kids to leave a plate of carrot sticks and hummus on the fireplace next to a nice big cup of nonfat soymilk. 
To be fair, we’re talking about a serious problem with serious conse­quences. Childhood obesity reached a staggering 17 percent in 2008, accord­ing to the Center for Disease Control. But blaming weight gain on “the holidays” isn’t going to solve anything. Let’s start recognizing the deeper problems pushing childhood obesity to that shocking statistic. Clearly, our country’s obesity epidemic is rooted in American culture, one overly focused on image as opposed to health. 
Mrs. Claus said the American tabloids have been especially vicious to her husband, taking pictures from “horrendously unattractive angles.” 
“It’s making him self-conscious, which is unhealthy itself,” she said. “I mean, it’s a tough economic time for weight loss. He’s been the same size for almost 200 years! Replacing all those suits would be insanely expen­sive.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at      sfelsens@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Wisdom from mom brings rest for your souls 
What do these three pieces of advice have in common? Take a shower and see how you feel. Remember to say thank you and offer to help. Stand up straight. 
In addition to the fact that your Kate Barrett mother may have said all of them Faithpoint to you at one time or another (my mom did), they also each contain little bits of wisdom for these busy, stressful days of exams, travel and holi­days. Put them together and you may notice an improvement in your ability to navigate the next few weeks. 
When my brother and sister and I were growing up, if we woke up feeling sick (unless we absolutely couldn’t drag ourselves out of bed) our mom would always advise us to “take a shower and see how you feel” before pulling the plug on school or whatever else we had going on that day. And doesn’t the shower solution stand the test of time? You know it: no matter how tired, cranky or unprepared for that exam (or even just the day) you feel, post-shower is always a substantial step above pre­shower. So even if your schedule is so turned around in these next eight days or so that you can barely remember if it’s time for breakfast or dinner, don’t skip the shower! You’ll be glad for the gift of those five minutes. 
Whenever we would accept an invita­tion to a friend’s house for a meal, our mom would send us off with, “Remem­ber to say thank you and offer to help!” Although it never hurt to impress someone else’s mom a time or two 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

along the way, what has stuck with me about this advice has been the impor­tance of feeling real gratitude and acting in response to that gratitude. Despite the anxiety attendant on this time of the year — or really whenever we face wor­ry, sorrow or oppression — taking a mo­ment to find a person, situation or other reason to be thankful can help us regain perspective. And once you have found a reason to be grateful, don’t just sit there! Take one, five or 30-some minutes to call home, text your brother, thank the lunch lady in SDH or pick up the trash some­one dropped on the beautiful quad out­side your hall. Go to the grotto and light a candle for someone you know who has more serious problems than you do. 
And finally, stand up straight. “What?” You ask. “Who cares?” Let’s face it, you’re all trapped; doomed to languish in the depths of the Worst Posture Generation. You have grown up with bigger backpacks and greater quantities of heavier books than I or anyone schooled in the 20th century ever carried, and yet you were born just barely too soon to be one of those kids who will go carry nothing but an iPad or its futuristic cousins for their entire 12 years of elementary and high school education. So how can you possibly be expected to stand up straight? Well, remember the beautiful, comforting words of encouragement Jesus offers us in Matthew’s gospel: “Come to me, all you that are weary and are carry­ing heavy burdens, and I will give you rest.” Sometimes we are stooped not merely from the weight of a Chemistry text or a binder full of research notes, but from worrying over a family situa­tion, a friend’s illness, financial fears or even a careless action or comment that has snowballed into a painful argument. These are exactly the burdens Jesus wants to lift from us, exactly the place from which he offers, “I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls.” 
In the common — even somewhat ironic — ways that the call of Chris­tian faith clashes with the voice of our culture, we find ourselves in the midst of Advent, a season which presents us with hope for healing, comfort, the redemp­tion and transformation of our lives and world. Yet even as these weeks offer us freedom of heart, we unfortunately feel more ensnared than perhaps any other time of the year by pressure, anxiety and even fear. Making daily time for prayer or talking to a trusted RA or rector can become vehicles for Christ to bring rest for your soul. 
So if you find yourself overwhelmed by exams, by mixed feelings about going home for Christmas, by stress in even your closest relationships, try some or all of these simple steps. Take a shower; find the bright spots around you for which to be grateful; allow the Lord to work through other people or through your prayer to lift any burdens that keep you from standing up straight. May God bless each of you in these weeks of Ad­vent and Christmas … and finals. 
Kate Barrett is the director of the Em­maus Program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Happiness is having a large, loving, caring, close-knit family in another city.” 
George Burns 
U.S. actor & comedian 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“The excellence of a gift lies in its appropriateness rather than in its value.” 
Charles Dudley Warner 
U.S. editor & essayist 


Thursday, December 8, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Protecting our rights 
In late October a former Taliban activist who had renounced his militant affili­ation and applied for political asylum in the state of New York was seized from his home by U.S. Marshals. The man, whose asylum case we studied as part of a course on the Anthropology of Human Rights (with Professor Cynthia Mahmood), had suddenly disappeared. 
He was seized without a stated cause or known destination, and was out of reach of his family or legal representation since October. He could have been in Guantanamo Bay or any number of other secret (or not secret) detention centers, or he could have been sent back to his home country without further ado. Fear­ing the wrath of the Taliban, in whose eyes his defection made him a traitor, the individual appealed to the United States for protection, but was not afforded the due process of law — not even the normal standard of contact with an attorney for legal representation. 
The National Defense Authorization Act of 2012 awaits President Obama’s signa­ture. This act requires that any individual with suspected ties to terrorist groups be held in military detention without trial until the “end of hostilities” (NDAA 2012). Obama himself says the act “would raise serious and unsettled legal ques­tions and would be inconsistent with the fundamental American principle that our military does not patrol our streets.” 
Detaining a person without trial until cessation of hostilities, on suspicion alone, is indeed a shocking proposition in the America we thought we knew. The current “War on Terror” has ominously no parameters by which cessation of hostilities can even be defined. We are, therefore, talking about the potential to hold a sus­pect population indefinitely without access to due process. 
Acts like the National Defense Authorization Act of 2012, with all its legal ver-
UWIRE 

Gifford’s recovery a lesson in forgiveness 
Sometimes, you look for the word “chair,” but the only word that comes is “spoon.” If this year has taught you anything, it’s that sometimes you have to fight for the simplest things. 
In January, a man heard from news reports that his wife had been killed by a gunman in a Safeway parking lot. Nearly a year later, that man and his wife sat on national TV, telling Diane Sawyer the story of Rep. Gabrielle Giffords’ recovery from a gunshot wound to the Kristina Bui brain. 
On Jan. 8, just as students were gearing up to return The Arizona to campus, Tucson stood still as news outlets struggled to Daily Wildcat keep up with reports of a gunman at north-side Safeway, where the congresswoman was holding a “Congress on Your Corner” event. Six were killed and 13 injured, including Giffords, that day. 
Later, everyone from reporters to commentators, pundits to bloggers, specu­lated that the gunman, identified as Jared Loughner, had been driven by vitriolic discourse. Some suggested Loughner had a vendetta against the government. Others thought he was just sick, suffering from a mental illness and failed by Arizona’s struggling health care system. 
Over the course of the last year, experts contemplated how Loughner would stand trial, whether or not to medicate him and what sort of sentencing he would face. Meanwhile, Giffords left Tucson for Houston, where she began the long and slow process of regaining some semblance of normalcy. 
What happened brought Tucson to the national stage: On Jan. 12, President Barack Obama came to Arizona and spoke at the McKale Center to pay tribute to the shooting victims, but UA students overshadowed the event with their behav­ior at the memorial service. Critics suggested the behavior treated the memorial service like a pep rally. 
The thing is, you can’t control the cards life deals you. You can only play the hell out of the hand you’re given. 
On Jan. 12, attendees of the memorial service cheered and applauded because they saw what the critics could not. They said their goodbyes, and then celebrated the hope that drives healing. What no one said then was that, nearly a year later, that memorial service in McKale could be looked at as a sign of what was to come. 
In the last year, Giffords has gone from from lying, bruised and broken in the hospital, to opening her eyes and sitting up. Soon she was remembering words, then phrases, then full (albeit short) sentences. 
Loughner is being treated in Mississippi and awaits trial. The country waits to learn if Giffords will have recovered enough to hold office again. In the coming year, maybe Giffords will return to office. Maybe she won’t. But in the last year, she’s been set further back and come further than anyone else has. 
She still speaks in short sentences. Sometimes she resorts to gestures, as if all the words are in her hands. But nearly a year later, Giffords and her husband told Sawyer that they’re not angry with Loughner, and wish he’d been helped. Giffords called it “life … life.” 
Forgiveness is a process, like learning to speak again, and the future is more uncertain than anyone ever imagines it is. You could say this has been a dark year, and that Loughner and his story brought home all the horror that humans are capable of. You could also argue it’s been a year of fighting — a year of letting go of the things you can’t hold, of holding on with all your might to the things you can. 
Understand that everyone has a capacity for darkness. Give out all the light you have. 
This article first ran in the Dec. 7 edition of The Arizona Daily Wildcat, the daily pub­lication serving the University of Arizona. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
biage, slide past us on the evening news. For many Americans ready to trade fear for a minimal sense of security, these may sound like a good idea; but once you “know” someone affected by the post-Patriot Act logic, that marks a move away from the sense of acceptance that remains inscribed on one of our most treasured landmarks — the Statue of Liberty. And there is not one, but thousands of cases such as this. The more our fear grows, the greater the class of suspects grows. Who will be next? 
We lost one class project. A man lost his freedom. Will we allow our govern­ment’s promise for our freedom be lost as well? If our ruling powers cannot pro­tect our rights, then we are the only ones left to do it for ourselves. 
Martha Karam 
senior Welsh Family Hall Dec. 7 
James Baffa 
senior off-campus Dec. 7 
Jamie Murray 
junior 
Pasquerilla East Hall 
Dec. 7 

Cost reform needed for education opportunity 
The current state of our country leaves economists, analysts and politicians to question, “what are we doing wrong?” and “what can be done to fix it?” One thing that many neglect to factor in is the poor and declining education system all across the U.S. 
The content of class work needs to improve, but at least those who choose to have an education of any value pursue it because they can afford to. If education was more affordable, this Oriana Pawlyk country could easily see reduced ramifications produced from less than average choices. The Miami 
According to a CNN article, “Why does college cost so Student much?” back in 2009, “spending by Americans for post­secondary education totaled $461 billion, an amount 42 percent greater than in 2000, after accounting for inflation. This $461 billion is the equivalent of 3.3 percent of total U.S. gross domestic product (GDP) and an amount greater than the total GDP of countries such as Sweden, Norway and Portugal.” 
And it’s only gotten worse. The American higher education system needs cost reform, as U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan addressed in a speech ear­lier last week. Sure, many of us at Miami University attend because our parents are paying, but when those students are paying back loans on their own in a few years, we will all see just how much and how ridiculous some of those fees are. 
The article also stated that, “College seniors who borrow to finance their edu­cation now graduate with an average of $24,000 in debt, and student loan debt now tops credit card debt among Americans.” 
The number of college graduates goes beyond the number of job opportuni­ties — students are resorting to taking a job just “to settle,” but not what they’re really qualified for. While I may only earn a bachelor’s degree here, it is more suitable for me to coincide with a profession that highlights what I’ve studied at Miami for the last four years; I would never and could never settle for a job being a retail employee or working at a restaurant just because it “pays the bills,” but unfortunately, that is what most Americans have settled for. 
Bottom line, students, faculty and staff should always ask questions about university spending. If you run a university like a business, you should value the customers, in this case, the students. Just because you’d like to be “selective” doesn’t also mean pleasing constituents such as university trustees, alumni, etc., needs to be a major priority in university spending — think of the students who are here to learn and what their finances are going to. 
If these problems aren’t addressed, America will have an increased rate of un­educated people, leading to an increased crime rate, increased number of people living on welfare, etc. The repercussions are devastating. Education is and should always be the number one value for all — it doesn’t ever hurt to learn, but if people are discouraged because it will hurt their bank accounts, then America should no longer be valued as “the land of opportunity.” 
This article first ran in the Dec. 7 edition of The Miami Student, the daily publication serving Miami University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Four weeks of no class, no homework, no papers and no tests is a daunting 
idea. After sleeping off your finals stress 
for a week and preparing for a marathon 
of Christmas events, you might find 
yourself stuck at home with nothing to do. The holiday season is always full of new releases of the biggest movies of the year, and this year is no exception. 
From family-friendly films meant to 
capture the Christmas spirit to serious Oscar-contenders, December and January are chock-full of the movies that you just have to see. And with all that time on your hands, what’s stopping you? 
“Arthur Christmas” In theaters now 
This is the tale of Arthur Claus, Santa’s son. His older brother, Steve, is the head of the house, and next in line for Santa. Arthur, awkward and easily excited, sits on the sidelines and tries not to cause trouble — until one little girl’s present gets left behind. As the only one who cares, Arthur takes charge and becomes the unlikely hero of the story, saving Christmas, at least for that little girl. This story reminds that we should always try to make Christmas special for everyone. This movie is a perfect choice for the holiday season, and they also giftwrap a polar bear to boot. 
“Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy” Dec. 9 
With an all-star cast featuring Gary Oldman, Colin Firth, Tom Hardy and every other famous British actor you know (outside of “Harry Potter,” at least) this adaptation of John le Carre’s 
espionage thriller finally opens in 
America. Deep in the midst of the Cold War, Gary Oldman’s MI6 agent is forced out of retirement to uncover a Soviet agent amongst the ranks of 
Britain’s intelligence elite. The film has 
received mostly positive reviews abroad and Oldman is garnering some serious buzz for awards season. 
“New Year’s Eve” Dec. 9 

Another movie is trying to adopt the “Love Actually” model, blending together the storylines of a number of different people into one movie. From a pregnant couple to friends on the verge 
of falling in love to a man trying to find 
an amazing woman he randomly met the year before, this movie seems to have almost every cliché known to man 
— and every attractive celebrity. But many of the vignettes are heartwarming and if you like romantic comedies, this seems like a safe bet. Hopefully this movie will be better than “Valentine’s Day,” which seemed to have a similar plot idea. 
“Young Adult” Dec. 9 

Feeling a void of snarky, quirky dialogue in your movies lately? “Juno” director Jason Reitman and screenwriter Diablo Cody team up again for “Young Adult,” a dramedy that has Charlize Theron playing delightfully bad-behaving teen lit author Mavis. When Mavis returns to her hometown, she tries to win back her married high school sweetheart (Patrick Wilson) and relive her glory days of high school. She’s not really a character we’re supposed to root for, so it should be interesting to see how or if Reitman, Cody and Theron make this questionable character likeable. 
“The Sitter” Dec. 9 

Jonah Hill stars as the world’s most irresponsible babysitter in what looks like another slacker movie. Hill appears to have no regard for the safety of the children as he drags them along to booze fueled romps and seedy neighborhoods. Though Hill may not 
have the ability to carry a film, it looks 
like he is backed by a crew of genuinely funny kids, played by Max Records, Landry Bender and Kevin Hernandez. 
“Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows” Dec. 16 
After being pleasantly surprised by 
the first “Sherlock Holmes,” the 
sequel “Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows” appears to be equally as thrilling. Robert Downey Jr. returns as Holmes with Jude Law as the begrudgingly straight-laced sidekick 
Watson. It’s the perfect action flick with 
an alluring period piece aesthetic. 
“Carnage” Dec. 16 
Famed director Roman Polanski brings the acclaimed play “God of Carnage” to the big screen with help from playwright Yasmina Reza. The story, about two couples that meet to 
discuss a fight between their young 
sons, devolves into chaos as the parents lose all traces of civility and resort to childish arguing in an attempt to resolve differences. The couples are played by Jodie Foster, John C. Reilly, Kate Winslet and Christoph Waltz. 
“Alvin and the Chipmunks: Chip-Wrecked” Dec. 16 
I thought it would be impossible to name another “Alvin and the Chipmunks” movie after the Squeakquel, but they’ve done it. As one might glean from the subtitle, this third installment in the chipmunk franchise features the guys on a cruise and somehow they get shipwrecked. Full of pop cultural references and animated animals doing silly things, this movie should be fun for the whole family. And with Jason Lee and David Cross as 
the real people in the film, it hopefully 
won’t be too silly. 

By MAIJA GUSTIN riety of pieces from their fall repertoire, Scene Editor Handel’s Messiah and Christmas music. Come out with friends and family to sup-
Various musical groups at Notre Dame port the choir and enjoy some festive take domestic tours throughout the music to brighten your January. year to bring the sounds of Notre Dame to family, friends and fans across the Sunday, Jan. 8 country. This winter break, the Notre Louisville, Ky. Dame chorale will tour the Southeast Our Lady of Lourdes Church and parts of the East Coast, with stops 4 p.m. in Kentucky, Tennessee, Georgia, South Carolina, Virginia and ending in Penn-Monday, Jan. 9 sylvania. The chorale will perform a va-Knoxville, Tenn. 

“Mission: Impossible – Ghost Protocol” Dec. 16 in IMAX, Dec. 21 everywhere 
Though it would have been cooler if the whole title were rendered with two colons, Ghost Protocol offers everything that fans of the series and of action movies have come to expect. There are terrorist bombings, international relations disasters and Tom Cruise as an off-the-grid agent who, with his team, has to save the world or something. Also starring are talented actors Jeremy Renner and Simon Pegg, not to mention writing and producing by J.J. Abrams. But 
the real draw to see the film in select 
IMAX theatres is for the prologue of “The Dark Knight Rises.” 
“The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo” Dec. 21 
The new David Fincher film — 
based on the hit Swedish novel of the same name by Steig Larrsson 
— has billed itself as the “feel bad movie of Christmas.” Following the investigation into a 40-year-old murder joined with plots of sadism, sexual violence and general mistreatment of women, that label is probably correct. However, “Dragon Tattoo,” which stars Daniel Craig and Rooney Mara as anti­heroes Mikael Blomkvist and Lisbeth Salander, respectively, isn’t about exploiting these issues for sensation 
and box office dollars. Rather, the film 
tells an incredibly dense story about the travesties people will commit against other human beings and the ways that one chooses to deal with that. Even if the material sounds dark, don’t deny yourself a wonderfully complex mystery story that is equally chilling and fascinating. Check out the 
superb Swedish film as well. 
“The Adventures of Tintin” Dec. 21 
Tintin, a beloved hero of European culture, hasn’t found the same rabid fan base on this side of the Atlantic. However, the story of an intrepid and stalwart young journalist, who will willingly jump into danger to solve a crime or mystery, has become one of the greatest animated movies this Christmas. Steven Spielberg, who has often compared “Indiana Jones” to “Tintin,” tackles motion capture for 
the first time to bring the animated 
world of “Tintin” cartoons to life. 
“We Bought a Zoo” Dec. 23 
In this film, Matt Damon plays 
Benjamin Mee, a recently widowed father of two who moves to the countryside to try and start a new life for his family. The catch — the house he bought contains a zoo in the backyard. He hopes to renovate the struggling zoo, and in doing so, 
finds new meaning in his life and reconnects with his son. And he finds 
love with one of the zoo workers, played by Scarlett Johansson. The plot seems fairly predictable, but Damon’s character is engaging and Elle Fanning is adorable as his young daughter, making for a fun movie to see with the whole family. 
“The Darkest Hour” Dec. 25 
The perfect Christmas movie, “The 
Darkest Hour” finds a group of young 
Americans, including Emile Hirsch, Olivia Thirlby and Max Minghella, stuck in Moscow during an alien attack. The aliens go for Earth’s power supply and this rag-tag band of 
heroes exploits electricity to find the 

aliens’ weakness. Full of all the action sequences and special effects you’ve 
come to love about science fiction 
movies, “The Darkest Hour” looks like it could be a genuinely scary take on the genre. 
“War Horse” Dec. 25 
Steven Spielberg directs this moving war drama about the bonds of friendship between a boy and his horse that survive separation during World War I. Albert Narracott (Jeremy Irvine), a teenage boy living in southwestern England in 1914, must part with his beloved horse, Joey, when he is sold to the British cavalry. Joey serves on the front lines at times for the British then for the Germans. And despite being too young to enlist, Albert heads to 
France to save his friend. The film is 
a touching testament to friendship, hope and survival. 
“The Iron Lady” Dec. 31 in New York and Los Angeles, Jan. 13 everywhere else 
Meryl Streep is eerily identical to Margaret Thatcher in this biopic about the former British prime minister. A non-British actress playing one of the most iconic British 
figures of the last few decades, 
Streep has been garnering early rave 
reviews for her portrayal. The film 
pays particular attention to the weeks before the Falklands War in 1982 and 
the sacrifices Thatcher had to make 
to become a woman in power in a typically male-dominated profession. Even if British politics aren’t really your thing, Streep’s performance is something you should be sure to see. 
Sacred Heart Cathedral Friday, Jan. 13 7 p.m. Roanoke, Va. St. Andrew’s Catholic Church 
Tuesday, Jan. 10 7 p.m. Atlanta, Ga. St. Jude the Apostle Catholic Church Saturday, Jan. 14 7 p.m. Pittsburgh, Pa. 
St. Scholastica 

Thursday, Jan. 12 5 p.m. mass Charleston, S.C. 6:30 p.m. concert Cathedral of St. John the Baptist 8 p.m. Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 

ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Conference changes benefit hockey fans 
Still slogging its way through the effects of the 2004 lockout, the NHL did something right. It has nothing to do with this season, nor does it have to do with who will hoist the Cup in June. 
No, it has to do with the most im­portant thing in hockey after the players on the ice: the fans. 
It is for those fans that are still bitter after having their hearts crushed by NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman, when he can-celled the 2004-2005 NHL sea­son. 
It is for those fans that left the sport for the NFL and college football and occasionally follow their former on-ice obsession through their iPhones. 
And it is for those fans who aren’t fans yet, or the kids who play pond hockey and dream to be like Stamkos or Kane, while most kids want to be like Kobe and Peyton. 
And all the NHL did was re­align the conferences. 
There were no major ros­ter changes or even new teams added, which had sadly been the biggest news we would usually hear from Bettman. Just sched­ule changes and playoff format changes, but it will make all the difference. 
On Tuesday, Bettman an­nounced the NHL would end the four-team, six division format it has stubbornly stood by since the 1993-1994 season. Instead of the Eastern and Western confer­ence, there will be four confer­ences with seven or eight teams in each conference, which could be described regionally — but not yet officially —  as the West, Central, East and Atlantic: 
Conference A (West): Ana­heim, Calgary, Colorado, Ed­monton, Los Angeles, Phoenix, San Jose, Vancouver 
Conference B (Central): Chi­cago, Columbus, Dallas, Detroit, Minnesota, Nashville, St. Louis, Winnipeg 
Conference C (East): Boston, Buffalo, Florida, Montreal, Ot­tawa, Tampa Bay, Toronto 
Conference D (Atlantic): Car­olina, New Jersey, NY Islanders, NY Rangers, Philadelphia, Pitts­burgh, Washington 
Under the new format, each team will play its conference rivals five to six times a season (no different from this year). The major scheduling change involves the out-of-conference teams as every team in the NHL will meet in a home-and-home series each season. 

Financially, this move makes sense as Sidney Crosby, Alex­ander Ovechkin and the reign­ing Stanley Cup champions will go to every city, sell seats and create buzz. Fans in Calgary will get to see Crosby every year, while east coast fans get to see the up-and-coming west coast teams — Canucks, Kings, Sharks — they would normally see every other year. 
The new conferences will surely heighten the already thrilling regional rivalries we see each year in both the regu­lar season and playoffs. Starting next year, the Capitals and Pen­guins will face off six times each year, while keeping its regional ties to the Flyers and Rangers. 
But here is where things get interesting, as hockey fans ev­erywhere lick their chops. The top four teams from each confer­ence will qualify for the playoffs, regardless of their comparisons to teams in other conferences. Meanwhile, the first two rounds of the playoffs will occur within the division, as the four teams will duke it with their rivals for the conference championship before advancing to the Stanley Cup semifinals. 
Not only do we get to see six regular season games between cutthroat rivals from October to April, but now the chances of seeing Boston and Montreal meet in another exhilarating se­ries are dramatically enhanced. 
Who knows what will happen when they get cozy with each other during the regular sea­son. And that is probably the beauty of it all. Each team will know each other all too well, and will do anything to knock their counterparts from the playoffs. Regular season compe­tition between conference rivals will also improve, because they know they could face that same team again in the playoffs if they don’t knock them out during the season. 
Regular season games will feel like playoff games, and play­off games like Game 7’s. 
And who gets to watch it all unfold? We do: the fans. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer 
MLB 

Marlins introduce SS Reyes 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — Jose Reyes felt the love from the Mi­ami Marlins. And the mon­ey. 
When the free-agent signing period began last month, the Marlins wanted to meet the All-Star short­stop right away — as in not a minute to spare. 
So owner Jeffrey Loria, team president David Sam­son and their top base­ball officials arranged a midnight rendezvous with Reyes and his agent at a table outside Bemelmans Bar at The Carlyle, the New York hotel famous for host­ing President John F. Ken­nedy and Marilyn Monroe a half-century ago. 
“12:01. Those guys are crazy,” Reyes said Wednes­day, when his $106 million, six-year contract was fi­nalized. “They showed me a lot of love.” 
Reyes joined a team that suddenly aspires to be among baseball’s big spenders. When the winter meetings began Monday, the Marlins finalized a $27 million, three-year contract with closer Heath Bell. 
A few hours after the Marlins introduced Reyes, manager Ozzie Guillen said the team had reached a deal with free-agent pitch­er Mark Buehrle. And the week has been dominated by Miami’s pursuit of three-time NL MVP Albert Pujols. 
Leaving the cash-strapped New York Mets, who signed him when he was 16, Reyes accepted an offer that pays him $10 mil­lion in each of the next two seasons, $16 million in 2014 and $22 million in each of the final three years. Miami has a $22 million option for 2018 with a $4 million buy­out, which could raise the total to $124 million. 
Reeling from three straight losing seasons, $70 million in losses and a lawsuit seeking to recover money from their owners for the victims of the Ber­nard Madoff Ponzi scheme, the Mets never made a for­mal proposal to retain their first NL batting champion. 
“They didn’t make a real offer, so that means they don’t want me there,” Reyes said. “I need to move on.” 
After trading Francisco Rodriguez and Carlos Bel­tran, All-Stars are disap­pearing as fast from the Citi Field home clubhouse as spectators are from the stands. Reyes sounded hurt that the Mets made little effort to retain him. 


“If you’re asking whether I should have sent him a box of chocolates, perhaps I should have done that,” general man­ager Sandy Alderson said. “But on the other hand, the box of chocolates would have cost $106 million.” 
Wearing the new look of the Marlins — a cap with a blue, white, orange and yellow “M’’ with a swoosh that looks like it could be a logo for a fast food chain — Reyes’ dreadlocks dangled onto the white jersey of the team, which was re­named from the Florida Mar­lins as it prepares to move into its $515 million downtown ballpark next season. 
It appears as Reyes’ bank account swells, his hair will shorten. 
“We have team rules. Pe­riod,” Loria said. “Everybody adheres to them.” 
Samson said he arrived at 

11:56 p.m. for the initial meet­ing. 
“Jeffrey walked into the Ho­tel Carlyle with a long overcoat because it was about 12 de­grees out, and under the over­coat was the Jose Reyes new Marlins jersey that had not been released yet,” he said. “A few other people in the bar thought that this was some sort of strange, freaky show, because the owner of the team stood up and literally went like this, and underneath was Jose Reyes’ jersey,” Samson said, pulling apart his jacket by the lapels. “We then ordered some drinks and stayed around for a couple of hours just talking and getting to know each oth­er, and a few days after that Jose came down to Miami and saw the ballpark. So 12:01 to us was always a big deal be­cause we wanted to show Jose from the beginning that we had an idea.” 
A four-time All-Star, the 28-year-old Reyes hit .337 and also topped the league with 16 triples, while also stealing 39 bases. But hamstring injuries have limited him to no more than 133 games in any of the last three years. 
“It’s a perfect situation in Miami,” Reyes said. “We have a lot of talent there and the new stadium, the weather, close to Dominican, a lot of Spanish people there, so I think I’m going to like it and enjoy it as much as I can.” 
His arrival means All-Star shortstop Hanley Ramirez will have to move to third base. Lo­ria said he spoke with him. 
“It was an upbeat conversa­tion. He’s going to be a mem­ber of our team,” the owner said. 
For months, Reyes had been waiting for the Mets to make an offer. Alderson said Friday and early Saturday that he thought maybe some of the pa­rameters he suggested could develop into an offer, but by Saturday night it was clear to him the Mets weren’t willing to pay what was needed. 
The realization of the switch dawned on Reyes on Sun­day night, when agent Peter Greenberg accepted the Mar­lins’ offer. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Why do you fall in love with every #QUINNING “I am never putting on another “I am not here for rage. I’m here for 

FOR SALE PERSONAL 
woman you see who shows you Seinfeld Quotes: straight out of the dryer.” - Cosmo piece of clothing unless it’s revenge.” - George Costanza 
the least bit of attention? Kramer Investment property in South UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t “As of today I am a proud parent “You think I tell Jerry everything? 
Drink up, young man. 

Bend. 1333 Belmont. New remodel go it alone. Notre Dame has many of a one-mile stretch of the Arthur “I’m on First and First. How can It’s not like he’s my wife.” - George with new kitchen and bath. (apox. resources in place to assist you. Berkhardt Expressway.” - Cosmo the same street intersect with Costanza I would never tell them this, but 1600 SF finished) Paint and carpet If you or someone you love needs Kramer itself? I must be at the nexus of the they are the best at what they new ready to move into. Four confidential support or assistance, universe!” - Cosmo Kramer do, and they specialize in the potential bedrooms and a full please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 “You should’ve seen her face. It ridiculous. basement. All new appliances. Call or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more was the exact same look my father Jim 574-329-2368 for a showing information, visit ND’s website at: “That stuff is unbelievable. I’d eat “I have no funny friends. I’m the gave me when I told him I wanted Give me a minute, I’m good. Give and more details.&quot; See it at- it out of a dumpster.” - Cosmo funny one. El-Clowno!” -George to be a ventriloquist.” - George me an hour, I’m great. Give me six MichianaOnlineRealty.com http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu Kramer Costanza Costanza months, I’m unbeatable. 
MLB 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Lefty Buehrle signs with Marlins 
Boise State to join 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — The Miami Marlins plucked another free agent prize Wednesday, reaching a deal with four-time All-Star pitcher Mark Buehrle for $58 million over four years. 
Manager Ozzie Guillen praised Buehrle over and over at baseball’s winter meetings. They were togeth­er on the Chicago White Sox this season, and Guillen was eager to have the left-hander on his side next year. 

“This kid is special,” Guil­len said. “He pitched in the big scenarios, big moments, very tough city to pitch. When people love you in Chicago, that means some­thing.” 
Buehrle’s deal is subject to a physical, which the sides 
were arranging. The Marlins have been the Big East for football 
busiest team by far in the 
majors this week, spending $191 million on three prime free agents. 
They previously landed a pair of All-Stars: shortstop Jose Reyes and closer Heath Bell. 
Plus, they’ve been pursu­ing slugger Albert Pujols and pitcher C.J. Wilson. 



Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The new Big East will span four time zones, 3,000 miles from coast to coast and, eventually, have 12 teams. 
The beleaguered and ever-changing conference hopes it all adds up to a billion dollar televi­sion contract and a spot among the best football leagues in the nation. 
The Big East introduced Boise State, San Diego State, Houston, SMU and Central Florida as its newest members, effective 2013. 
“The Big East conference is the first truly national college football conference,” Commissioner John Marinatto said Wednesday during a teleconference with the univer­sity leaders from the five schools. Boise State President Bob Kustra said the announcement was “a sig­nificant step forward in the evolu­tion of Boise State University and our football program.” 
The Big East, depleted by the planned departures of Syracuse, Pittsburgh and West Virginia, is trying to rebuild as a 12-team foot­ball conference with a western di­vision. 
It’s been a slow process that be­gan in September, and there is still work to be done. 
Boise State and San Diego State, which currently play in the Moun­tain West Conference, will join the Big East only for football. Houston, SMU and UCF will be leaving Con­ference USA and joining the Big East in all sports. 
“We have ambitious plans, and this expansion is a great stride to­ward reaching them,” Marinatto said. 
The Big East has also been pur­suing Air Force and Navy as foot­ball only members, but it seems Air Force is no longer a possibility. Lt. Gen. Mike Gould, the superin­tendent of the academy, said the school will stay in the Mountain West. 
“We belong out West and for now that’s where we’re going to stay,” he told the AP. 
Boise State has reportedly worked out a deal to have its other sports teams compete in the West­ern Athletic Conference, where its football team dominated for 10 seasons. San Diego State is re­portedly finalizing a deal to have its other teams compete in the Big West. 
The Big East has only five foot­ball members committed to the conference beyond this season: Connecticut, Cincinnati, Louisville, Rutgers and USF. It also has seven schools that do not play major col­lege football and Notre Dame, which competes in the Big East in everything but football. 
Marinatto has pledged to hold Pittsburgh, Syracuse and West Vir­ginia in the conference until 2014, in accordance with the Big East bylaws. West Virginia wants to join the Big 12 in 2012 and has sued the Big East to get an early release. 
The Big East filed a countersuit to keep West Virginia in the con­ference. Pittsburgh and Syracuse intend to join the Atlantic Coast Conference as soon as possible, but are not challenging the Big East’s bylaws. 
Syracuse athletic director Da­ryl Gross said he expected the Big East might ask his school and Pitt to leave early now. 
“They’d need us to move out of the way,” said Gross, who was tak­ing part in IMG’s Intercollegiate Athletics Forum in Manhattan on Wednesday. 
Marinatto said there have been no discussions with the new mem­bers about the possibility of letting the departing members out early. Potentially, that could lead the Big East to have the same eight teams it has now in 2012 and as many as 15 members in 2013. 
“I think it’s a simple matter of respecting our bylaws,” Marinatto said of having lame duck mem­bers. “An early departure and a violation of those bylaws would damage the membership.” 
The Big East was born in 1979 as a northeast basketball conference and in 1991 added football with the inclusion of Miami, Virginia Tech and others. 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Griffin III named Big 12 offensive P.O.Y. 

Associated Press 
DALLAS — For Robert Griffin III, this might be the only pre­cursor. 
Baylor’s exciting dual-threat quarterback was selected Wednesday as The Associated Press’ Big 12 offensive player of the year. 
A leading contender in what is expected to be a tight Heis­man Trophy race, Griffin was unquestionably the Big 12’s top offensive player, getting 14 1/2 of 17 votes from a panel of AP member reporters who regu­larly cover the league. 
Oklahoma senior defensive end Frank Alexander was the Big 12’s top defender with 14 votes. 
The highlight producer known as “RG3” leads the na­tion in passing efficiency and has piled up 387 total yards per game. He has completed 267 of 369 passes (72 percent) for 3,998 yards with a Big 12-lead­ing 36 touchdowns and only six interceptions, and run for 644 yards with nine more scores. 
“He wins,” Texas coach Mack Brown said. “He’s a guy that when you go into a game, he’s such a dynamic player that he changes the game.” 
Brown made that statement even before Griffin passed for 320 yards with two long touch­downs and ran for two more scores in a 48-24 victory over the Longhorns last weekend. 
That nationally televised showcase for Griffin before the final Heisman ballots were cast gave the 15th-ranked Bears (9­3, 6-3 Big 12) their fifth straight victory. It is the longest win­ning streak in 20 years for Al­amo Bowl-bound Baylor, whose only 10-win season came in 1980 during Mike Singletary’s senior season. 
Griffin is one of five finalists for the Heisman Trophy, which will be presented Saturday night in New York. 
“He’s done enough this sea­son to win a Heisman,” Baylor coach Art Briles said. “When you judge somebody, you judge them over the long run, not the short run. His long run has been very impressive this year.” 
The Big 12 coaches also se­lected Griffin as the league’s top offensive player in their voting announced Wednesday. The coaches picked Alexander and Iowa State junior lineback­er A.J. Klein to share honors for defensive player of the year. 
Alexander led the Big 12 with 18 tackles for losses, and his 8 1/2 sacks matched Texas A&M’s Sean Porter for the most in the league. 
“He’s had a huge year. Ev­erybody’s recognized it and he just played at a different level than he did a year ago and he’s just been disruptive,” Sooners coach Bob Stoops said. “Wheth­er it’s pressure, sacks, tackles for a loss, forced fumbles, bat­ted balls, he’s just been very, very active so he’s had a huge year for him and for us.” 
Texas senior linebacker Em­manuel Acho got the remain­ing three votes for top defen­sive player from the AP panel. He had 102 tackles and three sacks this season. 
Kansas State coach Bill Sny­der, named Tuesday the AP Big 12 coach of the year, got the same honor in the vote of his peers. 
The AP All-Big 12 team will be released Thursday. 
Baylor’s current winning streak includes the Bears’ first win ever over Oklahoma, when Griffin set a school record with 551 total yards and threw the game-winning TD with 8 sec­onds left. 
Before beating Texas, the 15th-ranked Bears had already swept their four November games. That had won only four Big 12 games combined in that month the previous 15 seasons. 
Kansas State’s running quar­terback Collin Klein got 1 1/2 votes for offensive player of the year, with one ballot’s vote split between Griffin and Klein. Brandon Weeden, the quarter­back for Big 12 champion and BCS-bound Oklahoma State, got the other vote. 
Klein threw for 1,745 yards and 12 touchdowns, but also ran for league-best 26 touch­downs while ranking sixth in the Big 12 with 1,099 yards rushing. Weeden passed for 4,328 yards and 34 TDs. 
A year after Oklahoma State’s Justin Blackmon became the first receiver to become the Big 12 offensive player of the year, and break a streak of 11 consecutive years with quar­terbacks getting the award, it was only quarterbacks getting votes again this year. 
Texas freshman running back Malcolm Brown was se­lected as the offensive newcom­er of the year. Brown finished eighth in the Big 12 with aver­aging 71 yards rushing in his 10 games. He was on pace to be a 1,000-yard rusher until being hampered by injury the second half of the season that forced him to miss two games. 
MLB 

Rockies trade Street to Padres 
Associated Press 

DALLAS — The Padres quick­ly got a new closer by acquiring Huston Street from the NL West rival Colorado Rockies. 
San Diego announced the deal Wednesday at baseball’s winter meetings, where two days earli­er former Padres All-Star closer Heath Bell was introduced by the Miami Marlins. 
The 28-year-old Street had 29 saves in 33 chances for Colorado in 2011. He was 1-4 with a 3.86 ERA in 62 games. 
The right-hander has 178 saves in seven seasons with Colorado and the Oakland Ath­letics. 
“We’re happy how it ended up. He’s a very proven closer. He’s done it in this division, he’s had three good years in Colorado, which is a very hard place to pitch,” new Padres gen­eral manager Josh Byrnes said. “We’re glad to have him.” 
Colorado gets a player to be named and cash in the deal. 
Street is due $7.5 million next season, $500,000 of which the Rockies will pay. His contract also includes a $9 million player option for 2013 that includes a $500,000 club buyout that Colo­rado would pay as well. 
Street was the second closer to get traded this week. The Chi­cago White Sox sent Sergio San­tos to Toronto on Tuesday. 
The Mets reached a deal Tues­day with Frank Francisco to be their likely closer. 
Bell, who had more than 40 saves in each of the last three seasons in San Diego, got a $27 million, three-year contract with the Marlins. He converted 43 of 48 save chances with a 
2.44 ERA this year. 
Though San Diego had offered salary arbitration to Bell, By­rnes stayed in contact with his former boss, Colorado GM Dan O’Dowd, about a possible deal. 
“It’s been going on at least a month,” said Byrnes, who was hired to be O’Dowd’s assistant in Colorado in 1999 and held that role for two years. “We were able to stay in touch about this idea and ultimately get it done.” 
Once Bell made his move this week, the Padres sped up their process to fill the void. There were other trade talks and dis­cussions with free agents in Dallas before finalizing the deal with the Rockies. 
“Even a week or two ago, we thought we might have to wait and see,” Byrnes said. “Heath signed. These meetings prompt activity. We were in the middle of that. In the sense of timing, it was time to go.” 
Street was on the 15-day disabled list in August with a strained right triceps, but re­turned to pitch nine games with a 2.45 ERA the rest of the sea­son. He had right shoulder in­flammation in 2010. 


MLB 

Dodgers, Fox Sports meet in court 
Associated Press 
WILMINGTON, Del. — Attor­neys for the Los Angeles Dodg­ers and Fox Sports squared off in court Wednesday over the team’s plan to sell the media rights to games starting in 2014 as part of its plan to exit bank­ruptcy. 
The Dodgers are asking a U.S. Bankruptcy Court judge in Dela­ware to approve a process for selling the television rights to future games as part of a settle­ment with Major League Base­ball that also calls for the sale of the team and Dodger Stadium. 
Fox, whose Prime Ticket sub­sidiary owns the current televi­sion contract with the Dodgers, is challenging the proposed sale process, saying it would violate Fox’s rights under the existing contract. That contract gives Fox an exclusive 45-day period starting in October 2012 to ne­gotiate a new TV deal and pro­hibits the Dodgers from talking to any other party until Nov. 30 of next year. 
The Dodgers contend that a sale of the media rights is the best way to maximize value for the team’s creditors and emerge from bankruptcy in a timely fashion. 
“It’s an obvious place to look for liquidity and long-term sta­bility for the company,” said Tim Coleman, a senior managing di­rector for Blackstone Advisory Partners, which is acting as fi­nancial adviser to the Dodgers. 
But Fox maintains that a me­dia rights sale would result in the Dodgers breaching their ex­isting contract with Fox, leaving the team subject to potential le­gal claims that could drive down the price potential buyers would be willing to pay for the club. 

Coleman disagreed, testify­ing that even if Fox loses out on bidding for the future television rights, it would not mean a dam­age claim against the Dodgers or the team’s new owner. Cole­man said Fox would have virtu­ally the same rights under the proposed sale process as it has now, including an exclusive 45­day negotiating period, with the major difference being that the timetable for reaching a new TV deal would be bumped up by 10 1/2 months. The settlement with Major League Baseball calls for a sale of the team and its as­sets, including the future media rights, to be completed by April 30. 
“The procedures are essen­tially the exact same procedures as Fox has today, other than dates,” Coleman said. 
The Dodgers also note that the proposed sale process in­cludes a provision for Judge Kevin Gross to decide whether the media rights sale would re­sult in any damage to Fox and to estimate any payments to which Fox might be entitled as a result. If such payments threatened to significantly reduce the benefits of the media rights sale, the Dodgers could call it off. 
But attorneys for Fox Sports argued that the sale process would give a buyer of the Dodg­ers the ability to reject any new TV deal reached with Fox, something they said the current contract does not allow. 
Fox attorney Greg Werkheiser warned that the dispute over the proposed media rights sale could prompt the network to withhold a January royalty payment to the Dodgers that Werkheiser said was at least in the millions of dollars, if not tens of millions. 
“We’re not going to be able to sit around and wait to see if we’re being injured in the pro­cess and cough up a large sum of money when we’re not get­ting the benefit of the bargain,” Werkheiser said. 
The Dodgers sought bank­ruptcy protection in June after baseball Commissioner Bud Selig refused to approve a new TV deal with Fox that Dodg­ers owner Frank McCourt was counting on to keep the fran­chise solvent. 
The Dodgers subsequently argued in bankruptcy court that auctioning off the television rights to future games was the best way to maximize the value of the bankruptcy estate for the benefit of all stakeholders. 
The league disagreed, say­ing any plan to sell television rights without its approval was “dead on arrival” and would spell the end of the club. League attorneys argued that such a sale would breach the Dodgers’ existing contract with Fox and provide grounds for termina­tion of the franchise for failure to abide by MLB agreements. 
But after battling with the Dodgers over control of the ballclub and seeking to force McCourt to sell the team, MLB reached a settlement last month with the help of a court-appoint­ed mediator. Many of the settle­ment terms remain confidential, including procedures regarding the sale of the Dodgers, ap­proval of prospective buyers, and how the league would apply MLB rules and regulations to the media rights sale 


UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE 
Manchester United, City ousted from CL 

Associated Press 
LONDON — There will be no Champions League final for Man­chester United this season. 
Instead of trips to famous foot­ball arenas such as Camp Nou or the Santiago Bernabeu stadium, United will be heading to the likes of Metalist Kharkiv and Legia War­saw after a shock 2-1 defeat at FC Basel dumped the three-time Euro­pean champions out of the tourna­ment. 
United needed only to avoid de­feat in Switzerland to secure a 15th knockout round appearance in 16 Champions League seasons and keep its quest for a remarkable fourth final in five seasons on track. 
But Basel progressed instead, leaving United facing the unappe­tizing — and far less lucrative — prospect of playing the second half of the season in the Europa League. 

“It’s incredible,” Basel goalkeeper Yann Sommer said. “A Swiss team, a little country, against Manchester United, one of the biggest teams in the world — it’s crazy.” 
But at least United didn’t have to deal with the humiliation of seeing its local rival go through. Manches­ter City joins United in the second-tier tournament despite beating Bayern Munich 2-0. 
City, which leads the Premier League from United by five points, got the win it needed against the already qualified German club but Napoli’s 2-0 win at Villarreal took the Italian side through instead. 
Lyon won 7-1 at Dinamo Zagreb to complete a remarkable turnaround and qualify ahead of Ajax, which lost 3-0 to Real Madrid. CSKA Mos­cow won 2-1 at Inter Milan to take the final spot and complete the 16­team lineup for the next round. 
After losing three of the last four finals, United was expected to join Chelsea and Arsenal in the next round after the London clubs pro­gressed on Tuesday. But, with Unit­ed defender Chris Smalling lying dazed from a collision with team­mate Nemanja Vidic, Basel captain Marco Streller put his team ahead with a ninth-minute shot past goal­keeper David de Gea. 
Things got worse for United in the 43rd when captain Vidic was carried off on a stretcher after twisting his right knee while mak­ing a challenge. And despite almost constant pressure from United, Ba­sel doubled its lead through Alex Frei in the 84th. 
United’s Phil Jones got a late goal and his team twice hit the bar but to no avail. 
Benfica topped Group C with 12 points after a 1-0 win over Otelul Galati. Basel finished with 11 and United was two points further back. 
“Manchester are a good team, they had a lot of pressure and some­times we were a bit lucky not to concede, and this is a crazy night,” Sommer said. “We are through and Manchester are out — it’s super.” 
City needed to beat Bayern to have any chance of prolonging its first season in the Champions League and did so with ease, scor­ing a goal in each half through Da­vid Silva and Yaya Toure. 
But Gokhan Inler and Marek Hamsik scored second-half goals to secure Napoli’s place as the Group A runner-up to four-time European champion Bayern. 
Napoli labored to find a way through the Villarreal defense and the home side had a first-half goal ruled out for offside before Inler launched a 25-meter (yard) drive that left goalkeeper Diego Lopez motionless in the 65th. Hamsik added a second goal 11 minutes later with a close-range finish. 
Napoli finished with 11 points to Bayern’s 13. City had 10, while Villarreal became the first Span­ish club to suffer six straight group stage defeats. 
“We’re very sorry for our sup­porters and I’m sorry for our play­ers,” City manager Roberto Mancini said. “I think we need to improve as a team because we got a tough group this year.” 
Lyon started its match at Dinamo Zagreb three points behind Ajax and needing a seven-goal swing to overturn the Dutch club’s advan­tage on goal difference. 
Real Madrid, which was already assured of top spot in Group D, helped out by completing this sea­son’s only perfect first-round record but Lyon did much of the hard work itself with a 7-1 rout of 10-man Din­amo. 
Things looked bad for Lyon when Dinamo Zagreb overcame the 28th­minute sending off of Jerko Leko for a second yellow card, Mateo Ko­vacic putting the home side ahead five minutes before halftime. 
But Bafetimbi Gomis equalized just before halftime and scored an­other three goals after the break, with Maxime Gonalons, Lisandro and Jimmy Briand adding the oth­ers as the home side fell apart. 
Jose Callejon scored twice and Gonzalo Higuain once to give Ma­drid a 3-0 win at Ajax, which had two goals disallowed, leaving Lyon tied on points with the Dutch side but ahead on goal difference. 
A late winner from Vasili Ber­ezutsk earned CSKA Moscow a 2-1 victory at Inter and a place along­side the home team in the last 16, with Trabzonspor and Lille elimi­nated after a 0-0 draw in Group B. 
Chelsea, Marseille and Zenit St. Petersburg clinched their places on Tuesday, joining already quali­fied Bayer Leverkusen, Arsenal, APOEL, AC Milan and defending champion Barcelona. 

MLB 

Mets solidify shaky bullpen 
Assosciated Press 
DALLAS — Walking across the hotel lobby, New York Mets manager Terry Collins smiled. 
“We rebuilt our bullpen in one day,” he said. 
In a rapid-fire series of moves at the winter meetings that took 1½ days to put together and 1½ hours to finalize, the Mets agreed to trade center fielder Angel Pagan to San Francisco for outfielder Andres Torres and pitcher Ramon Ramirez, and reached agreements with free-agent relievers Frank Francisco and Jon Rauch. 
Francisco gets a $12 million, two-year contract while Rauch receives a one-year deal worth $3.5 million. He can earn an additional $500,000 in perfor­mance bonuses. 
“Good, solid arms,” Collins said. “We’ve got some depth now.” 
Collins was beaming as he headed upstairs to congratu­late general manager Sandy Alderson. 
“No disrespect to our guys,” Collins said, “but we couldn’t stop some teams. I think we can now.” 
Francisco, the likely clos­er, spent six seasons with the Texas Rangers before he was traded to Toronto last winter for catcher Mike Napoli. The 32-year-old right-hander had 17 saves in 21 chances for the Blue Jays, going 1-4 with a 3.55 ERA. 

Rauch also was with the Blue Jays, and the 33-year-old right-hander was 5-4 with 11 saves in 16 chances and a 4.85 ERA. He has 85 big league saves in a career that includes time with the Chicago White Sox, Mon­treal-Washington, Arizona and Minnesota, including a career-high 21 for the Twins in 2010. 
Ramirez, a 30-year-old right-hander, was 3-3 with a 2.62 ERA this year, holding right-handed hitters to a .203 average and lefties to a .240 mark. He came to the Giants at the trade dead­line in 2010 — when general manager Brian Sabean added a band of “castoffs and mis­fits” as they became known to help the franchise to its first World Series title since mov­ing West in 1958. 
“I know one thing: He gets lefties out. He’s got the good sinker,” Collins said. “We’re going to be able to spread out all the workload.” 
New York’s bullpen had a 
4.33 ERA last season, 28th among the 30 major league teams, ahead of only Min­nesota (4.47) and Houston (4.49). 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Dayton upsets ‘Bama behind great shooting 
Assosciated Press 
DAYTON, Ohio — Chris John­son scored 20 points and Day­ton closed with a 17-9 run to knock off No. 16 Alabama 74­62 Wednesday, ruining Crim­son Tide head coach Anthony Grant’s homecoming. 
Grant starred for the Fly­ers from 1983-87. Alabama fell behind 38-27 at halftime with star forward JaMychal Green on the bench most of the first half with two fouls. Green scored the Tide’s first six points and finished with 12 on 6 of 9 shooting. 
Dayton (6-3) led 56-40 with 
11:52 to play when Alabama in­creased its defensive pressure to cut its deficit to 57-53 with 
7:43 left. 
Dayton point guard Kevin Dillard answered with con­secutive 3-pointers and Dayton was on its way to its third win this season over a BCS confer­ence team. The Atlantic-10 Fly­ers have now won nine of their last 10 games against BCS op­ponents. 
The Flyers shot 60.9 percent from the floor and 10 of 19 from 3-point range to score the most points Alabama has allowed this season. Tide opponents were shooting just 33.3 per­cent from the field entering the game. 
Josh Parker came off the Day­ton bench to make 3 of 5 3-point­ers and score 17 points. Dillard added 14 and Josh Benson 11. 
Alabama, which lost its sec­ond straight game, was playing a true road game for the first time this season. The Tide finally found some momentum with a full-court, trapping defense. Green’s steal at half court as he came up to trap Dayton’s Devin Oliver led to a layup for Trevor Releford that cut Dayton’s lead to 57-53 with 7:43 to play. 
Alabama had extended its 2-3 zone, giving Dayton’s offense problems. Then Dillard bust­ed that zone with consecutive 3-pointers to push the lead to 63­53 with 6:09 left. 
Dayton had lost its two previ­ous games against Buffalo and Murray State. In the 84-55 home loss to Buffalo one week ago, Dayton shot 28.1 percent from the field in a sluggish effort. But the Flyers were hot from the start and shot 64 percent in the first half. 
Dayton quickly jumped to a 46-29 lead in the second half on 3-pointers by Paul Williams and Johnson and a 15-footer by Ben­son. Dayton led 56-40 midway through the half when Alabama began to chip away on layups by Releford and Tony Mitchell to force a Dayton timeout with the Flyers up 56-45. 


gles, an area in which they 
McGraw 
have struggled to succeed all 


continued from page 20 
of Notre Dame’s post play­ers. “Catching and finishing, dribble penetration, they were finding open seams, we really just worked well around the paint area today. You have to credit [graduate student for­ward] Devereaux [Peters], Ace [Achonwa], [freshman for­ward] Marki­sha [Wright] and [sopho­more for­ward] Ariel [Braker], for season. Peters grabbed 10 re­bounds for the Irish and added nine points, falling just short of a double-double. 
Notre Dame’s success across the board against Marquette represented a near perfect performance, McGraw said. 
“It was as close as we’ve been all year,” McGraw said. “I think it was, start to fin­ish, a good effort all around. 

being around “I was really pleased with the area and the defense. I thought being ready the press was good, the for the ball. pressure in the half court When their was good, we turned them numbers over and we didn’t let up.” 
were called, they stepped 

Muffet McGraw 
up.” 

Irish coach 
As impres­
sive as the Irish were on offense, they were equally dominant on defense. The Irish held Mar­quette to 29.5 percent shoot­ing and forced 37 turnovers. 
“I was really pleased with the defense,” McGraw said. “I thought the press was good, the pressure in the half court was good, we turned them over and we didn’t let up.” 
Junior forward Sarina Sim­mons led the Golden Eagles’ futile offensive effort with 14 points, only three of which came in the second half. 
Notre Dame also managed to outrebound the Golden Ea-I think that was definite­ly our best game thus far in the sea­son.” 
Having cap­tured a win in their first conference matchup of the season, the Irish will not play an­other Big East oppo­nent until Jan. 4, when they travel to East Orange, 
N.J. to face 
Seton Hall. 
“It’s really important to get off to a good start, because now we have to wait almost a month to get our next confer­ence game in.” 
Before resuming Big East play, the Irish will enter a rough stretch of games dur­ing which they travel to No. 12 Purdue on Dec. 10 before hosting No. 10 Kentucky on Dec. 18. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at           jmonardo@nd.edu 


SMC BASKETBALL 

SMC rallies in second half, but loses at Hope 

Observer Staff Report 
Saint Mary’s hopes of win­ning consecutive conference games went out the window Wednesday, as the Belles fell to No. 15 Hope 74-56. 
The Belles (3-6, 1-2 MIAA) trailed the entire game, after the Flying Dutch (7-1, 3-0) took an 11-point lead early on. Hope came out aggressive in the first half, as senior guard Maddie Burnett tallied nine points in the opening minutes for the Flying Dutch. Hope broke away with a 13-4 run with six min­utes to play in the half and by halftime led 34-19. 
Hope contributed to its lead by attacking the basket and shooting just under 45 percent for the game. Along with Bur­nett’s 17 points, junior forward Courtney Kust added 15 points for the Flying Dutch. 
The Belles offense showed a balanced attack as well, as senior forwards Jessica Centa and Kelley Murphy scored 12 and 10 points, respectively. 
Saint Mary’s grabbed more rebounds and also had eight more shots than Hope. Despite the strong effort on the boards, mistakes plagued Saint Mary’s. The Belles turned the ball over 17 times in the first half. 
Saint Mary’s cleaned up its play in the second half and came within five points of the Flying Dutch at 53-48. But with the game in reach for the Belles, the Flying Dutch went on a 15-2 run to set the score at 68-50 with only 2:47 left, all but securing the win for Hope. 
This weekend, Saint Mary’s will look to get back on track against No. 2 Chicago, led by senior guards Bryanne Half-hill and Meghan Herrick. The undefeated Maroons (7-0) will be the fourth ranked team the Belles have faced this year with tipoff set at 1 p.m. Satur­day at the Angela Athletic Fa­cility. 


Brey 
continued from page 20 
“We’re doing fine. We’re doing good. You know why we’re do­ing good? I don’t think the rest of the Big East has figured any­thing out either. Our league is not like last year. There’s a lot of people searching — us in­cluded.” 
Big East play begins on Dec. 
27 with a clash against No. 15 Pittsburgh. The Irish will play a total of six conference games before classes resume on Jan. 17, including home games against South Florida and No. 9 Connecticut, the defending national champions. 
The Irish and Black Bears will tip-off at 7:30 p.m. at Pur­cell Pavilion. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
Scoring 
continued from page 20 
biggest issue right now.” 
Resurrecting their high-powered offense will be es­pecially difficult for the Irish this weekend, as they face one of the nation’s staunch­est defenses in Ferris State (10-5-1, 6-5-1). The Bulldogs’ current goals against aver­age of 1.88 is the third low­est in the NCAA, a byproduct of their conservative defen­sive scheme. Their defense sends both wingers down low to congest the corners and the area in front of the goal, which forces the opposition to settle for outside, low-per­centage shots. 
Notre Dame’s leading scor­er, sophomore center Anders Lee, will be one of the key pieces in the team’s quest to rediscover the back of net. 
“Ferris State is a good 
Olympics 
continued from page 20 
year, with many of the stu­dent-athletes focused on final exams. The timing, coupled with the fact that it is an indi­vidual event, means the entire team will not be traveling. 
Farr singled out some of the top fencers to travel to Kansas City, including junior sabreuse Lian Osier, senior foilists Radmila Sarkisova and Darsie Malynn, sopho­more foilist Nickolas Kubik and sophomore sabreur Kevin Hassett. 
For these participants, Farr envisions the weekend as more than just an opportunity to gain experience. 
“A lot of the kids [partici­pating] are our top fencers, team,” Lee said. “They’re al­ways high up there on the de­fensive side of things in the na­tion, and it’s a small little rink, so we’ve got to get shots on net. Right now we’ve got to just play our game and get back to the basics — and shoot the puck.” 

In addition to getting back to basics, Jackson said his players will need to slow the game down and let it come to them. 
“We’ve talked a lot about our poise and making plays under pressure, whether it’s on the breakout, or off a line rush, or on the powerplay. Right now we’re not responding to pressure as quickly as we should be,” he said. “It starts in practice, in my estimation. If things are chal­lenging for you in practice, then the game comes easier.” 
Notre Dame’s ability to over­come those obstacles this week­end may well become a turn­ing point in its season. After Friday’s game in Big Rapids, Mich. and Saturday’s matchup at home, the Irish will have 21 
so I believe those kids are go­ing to do well,” Farr said. “They aren’t just going there to com­pete and learn. They’re going to [win] medals and get results. That’s what the event is. For the kids that are going, that’s really where their drive is.” 
Other registered fencers in­clude freshman foilist Maddie Zeiss, junior foilist Grace Hart­man, freshman epeeist Ashley Severson, junior epeeist James Kaull, sophomore epeeist Mi­chael Rossi and senior foilist Reggie Bentley. Though it is still early in the season, the coach­ing staff is impressed with some individual performances so far, especially at last month’s Garrett Open at Penn State, Farr said. 
“When [Hassett] finished in the top eight at Penn State, we were happy with that,” Farr said. “Also, we were pleased with [Zeiss], [senior foilist] Enzo Cas­days off until they host Boston University on New Year’s Eve. With such a long period in be­tween games, this weekend’s series puts the pressure on the Irish and serves as the team’s last chance for a while to turn the page, start another winning streak and gain six important points in the conference stand­ings. 
“This is a huge weekend for the CCHA, especially going into our little Christmas break,” Lee said. “We just need to get back to our basics and work hard. We’ve had a good week of prac­tice, and those games we’ve lost are done with. We’ve just got to move on.” 
The Irish will kick off the weekend at Ferris State’s Ewig­leben Ice Arena on Friday and will return to the Compton Fam­ily Ice Arena on Saturday. The puck will drop at 7:05 p.m. on both nights. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at                 wheffero@nd.edu 
tellani and [Bentley] all placing in the top three at Penn State. We were really expecting a lot from those kids.” 
In Kansas City, the coaching staff will also be focused on the next wave of Irish fencers, as the North American Cup events include divisions for high school fencers. 
“For us coaches, this is a big recruiting weekend,” Farr said. “Since it’s a national event, high school student-athletes will be there, giving us another oppor­tunity for to get in contact with them, talk with them, talk with their parents and talk with their coaches.” 
The Irish take to the mats Fri­day and continue through Sun­day at the Kansas City Conven­tion Center. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


HENRy ARNOLD
JUMBLE

THE LONDON EXPRESS ALEx GRISWOLD AND LEE HAGGENJOS 
MIKE ARGIRION 

EXPND JON REPINE 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Thursday, December 8, 2011 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Big East blowout 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
In the 37th meeting between No. 3 Notre Dame and Mar­quette, the Irish turned in one of the best performances in the matchup’s history Wednesday with a 95-42 win over Mar­quette at the Purcell Pavilion. 
The Irish (8-1, 1-0) opened the Big East portion of their schedule with a big win over the Golden Eagles (5-5, 0-1 Big East), extending their current winning streak to five games and pushing their advantage in the all-time series to 31-6. 
Notre Dame secured the 53-point margin of victory — tied for the largest margin of victory in series history — by shooting 57.8 percent from the floor, including 7-13 from behind the arc. The 95 points represent the team’s third-highest point total of the sea­son and was led by sophomore guard Kayla McBride’s 19 points on 8-for-9 shooting. 
Senior guard Brittney Mal­lory contributed 11 points on 3-3 shooting from three-point range. 
McBride barely edged out 
JULIE HERDER/The Observer

junior guard Skylar Diggins in the points column, who col-Junior guard Skylar Diggins dribbles upcourt during Notre Dame’s 95-42 win over Marquette at Purcell 
lected 17 points, six steals and  Pavilion. Diggins had 17 points and seven assists in the victory.  
seven  assists,  including  an  
electrifying  behind-the-back  tory over Arkansas Pine-Bluff.  with a couple of them. She  key.  
pass to sophomore guard Nat­ “I thought [Diggins] played  shot the ball well. I was really  “We worked a lot on the  
alie Achonwa midway through  extremely  well,”  Irish  coach  pleased.”  high-low, getting the ball in  
the first half. Diggins’ assist  Muffet McGraw said. “She re- Notre Dame was especially  the paint, and they were just  
total led the Irish effort, re­ ally did distribute the ball and  successful getting the ball in- finishing,” Diggins said  
sulting in 29 assists — the  she threw some great passes,  side, as the team poured in 52  
most since a Nov. 15, 2009 vic­ kind of got the crowd excited  of its 95 points from inside the  see McGRAW/page 17  

page 20 
FENCING 
ND’s elite travel to Missouri 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
The defending champion fencing squad will be back in action Friday in the United States Fencing Association’s North American Cup in Kan­sas City, Missouri. 
The NCAA does not spon­sor the three-day event, so the team’s approach will be different, Irish assistant coach Ian Farr said. 
“We have different goals because we clearly are not trying to win,” Farr said. “We’re trying to get our kids experience and to expand our horizons fencing-wise… This is harder than colle­giate competition since the best fencers in the U.S. will be there.” 
The North American Cup events also provide fencers with the chance to improve their individual standing for the national team. 
“Since [the event] is not af­filiated at the collegiate level at all, it’s an opportunity to make the Olympic team,” Farr said. 
Farr said the event comes at an inopportune time of the 
see OLYMPICS/page 18 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame looks to bounce back vs. Maine 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
After dropping four of their last five games, the Irish re­turn to Purcell Pavilion today desperate for a win against Maine. 
The most recent Notre Dame loss came at the hands of Maryland on Sunday at the Verizon Center in Washington, 
D.C. Irish sophomore guard Jerian Grant led Notre Dame (5-4) with 20 points and three assists in the 78-71 loss, while sophomore guard Eric Atkins scored 16 points and added two assists. Grant and Atkins are two key components of Notre Dame’s effort to replace fifth-year senior forward Tim Abromaitis, who is out for the season with a knee injury. 
“I guess how we played [Sun­day] maybe there’s a little less post feeds in the low post, not that we’re getting away from it altogether, and our [frontcourt is] ball-screening more for Eric and Jerian,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “With Eric and Jer­ian’s ability to get in there and make decisions and get fouled, we’ve told [the frontcourt] to come out and set screens for those guys.” 
Maine (3-2) enters the con­test after splitting two con­secutive overtime games. The Black Bears lost at Eastern Il­linois on Nov. 30 before defeat­ing Rhode Island on the road Dec. 4. 
The Irish will host Dart­mouth on Saturday and then have a week off before playing in-state opponent Indiana at Conseco Fieldhouse in India­napolis on Dec. 10. Notre Dame will host Sacred Heart in its final non-conference game of the regular season on Dec. 19. The remaining non-conference slate will be important for the team’s improvement before facing Big East opponents, Brey said. 
“I guess it’s overall finding our identity a little bit with who we are offensively, who we’re going to be defensive­ly, are we going to play more zone, I think that still has to be considered and looked at and I think the biggest thing is get­ting guys confident for the Big East season,” he said. 
see BREY/page 18 
HOCKEY 

Irish look to end three-game skid 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Heading into their three-week long break for final exams and the holidays, the No. 7 Irish hope to give themselves an early Christ­mas present when they take on No. 10/9 Ferris St. in a home-and-home series this weekend. 
Notre Dame (10-5-3, 7-2-3 CCHA) currently sits in the roughest stretch of its season so far, as it has followed up an 11-game unbeaten streak with three straight losses — including a 9-2 drubbing by Northeastern last Friday. But while digging out of a losing skid is always difficult, Irish coach Jeff Jackson said he believes his team is taking all the right steps to work its way back to playing winning hockey. 
“The guys are [still loose]. They’re always loose. As long as they’re ready, that’s all I can ask,” Jackson said. “They’ve practiced really well so far this week. Obvi­ously, after a couple of losses they kind of start listening again, and that’s why losing is sometimes good for you.” 
One of the biggest factors in Notre Dame’s current los-ing streak has been its inability to score goals. After averag­ing four goals per game during their 11-game winning streak, the Irish have scored just five total goals in the last three games. 


Jackson said a lack of second­ary scoring has kept his team off the scoreboard. 
“[Goal scoring] has got to be a collective effort,” Jackson said. “Scoring comes from a num­ber of different sources on good teams. We were fairly consis­tent with that last year, when we were getting production from our fourth line and from our third line. That’s not hap­pening right now. Production has predominantly come from one or two lines, and we need to get more production from our other lines. And that’s really the 
see SCORING/page 18 






