
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


iRemember 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
Junior Chris Hunt was scan­ning his Facebook newsfeed on his Mac when he first read the news about the death of for­mer Apple CEO Steve Jobs. 
“You can’t really talk about the 21st century without talk­ing about Steve Jobs,” Hunt said. “He basically built the framework for how we com­municate.” 
Jobs died Wednesday after a long battle with a rare form of pancreatic cancer. Though Jobs never completed college, Hunt said the businessman is an example to students at Notre Dame because of his de­termination and persistence. 
“Even though he didn’t fin­ish college, he loved learn­ing,” Hunt said. “He was de­termined and always tried to keep learning and expanding himself.” 
James O’Rourke, profession­al specialist for the Mendoza College of Business, said Jobs was not only a skilled busi­ness executive, but also “an extraordinary leader and vi­sionary.” 
“Steve Jobs changed the way we communicate and made all of us better at what we do,” O’Rourke said. “That’s an ex­traordinary legacy.” 
Jobs build a unique culture at Apple during his time at the head of the company, O’Rourke said. 
“While others saw risk and danger in technology invest­ment, Steve saw opportunity,” he said. “He also saw around corners. He had the uncanny ability to tell what was coming next because he had a hand in creating it. He built loyalty, enthusiasm and exceptional quality into his brand. There is, quite literally, no one else like him in the world today.” 
The development of the Ap­ple brand revolutionized the market and made the company a household name, he said. 
“Depending on which survey you read, it’s either the larg­est or one of the largest com­panies in the world in terms of market capitalization,” O’Rourke said. “That came about as a result of exception­ally bright, insightful, loyal employees who’ve turned the Apple brand into something of a consumer cult. 
As the company looks to the future, O’Rourke said Jobs’ shoes will be big ones to fill. 
“The trick now for [Jobs’ successor] Tim Cook is to sup-


see JOBS/page 5 


AP 

A shrine in honor of Steve Jobs continues to grow on Thursday at Apple headquarters in Cupertino, Calif. 

Students, faculty reflect on Jewish experience on campus 
Jewish clubs promote community, discussion 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
As a way of enriching their faith experience at Notre Dame, Jewish students have started clubs that allow Jew­ish and non-Jewish students to come together to experi­ence the Jewish culture in a deeper and more meaningful way. 
Fourth year graduate stu­dent Jonathan Silver is a member of the unofficially ti-
see JEWISH/page 5 




Faithful engage in day of prayer, ref lection 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
While most members of the Notre Dame community will engage in football and week­end activities Saturday, Jewish students and faculty will en­gage in a day of serious prayer and introspection. 
Sunset on Friday marks the start of one of the holiest days of the year in Judaism — Yom Kippur. 
Michael Novick, an assis­
see HOLIDAY/page 5 


Senior football managers ensure team runs smoothly 

By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Behind every sports team, there is a legion of coaches and staffers that makes sure every­thing goes according to plan. 
Senior football managers Jus­tin Cullen, Nathan Feldpausch and Claire Kueny are Notre Dame’s 12th men during the on and off-season. 
Cullen oversees the essentials to all football games — equip­ment. 
“I’m the head student in charge of the equipment room and the locker room on both a day-to-day basis and on game day,” he said. 
Cullen’s job involves coordi­nating the laundry service with St. Michaels, issuing apparel and gear to the players and fix­ing any equipment malfunctions that occur during practice. 
Cullen said his role behind the scenes on game day often goes unnoticed. 
“What people don’t know is when the team goes out for prac­tice, we set up white boards where different positions meet with their position coaches be­fore the game,” he said. “We do this at halftime too.” 
Away games make his job a little more challenging, he said. 
“For away games, after half­time we immediately start mov­ing stuff to our semi because the buses and the semi pull out within an hour of the end of the game,” he said. “That process usually takes through the end of the third quarter and sometimes the beginning the fourth quar­ter.” 
While Cullen oversees the equipment, Feldpausch is in charge of administration. 
Feldpausch works under Chad Klunder, director of football op­erations. His main job is to mon­itor the players’ whereabouts, he 
see MANAGERS/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Professor lectures on peace building page 3u Viewpoint page 10u Inside the Band of the Fighting Irish page 12u Men’s Hockey faces defending champs page24 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FLAVOR? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Ellen Stucky  Bryce Burton  Rikki Koebler  Julia Hart  Elizabeth Davis  Lisa Menendez  
sophomore Lewis  junior Siegfried  freshman Howard  freshman Howard  senior off campus  freshman Lewis  
“Vanilla.”  “Ethiopian Raspberry.”  “Chocolate.”  “Neopolitan.”  “Pumpkin Creme Brulée.”  “Cherry.”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Caitlin Housley Marisa Iati Bridget Feeney 

Graphics 
Marina Kozak 

Photo 
Sarah O’Connor 

Sports 
Andrew Gastelum Cory Bernard Conor Kelly 

Scene 
Troy Mathew 

Viewpoint 
Megan Kozak 



LOCAL WEATHER 
OFFBEAT 

German fashion designer makes clothes from milk 
BERLIN — A fashion de­signer from the German city of Hanover is revolutionizing high fashion by designing clothes with a staple she can find in her fridge — milk. 
Anke Domaske, 28, has de­veloped a fabric called QMilch made from high concentra­tions of the milk protein ca­sein — the first man-made fi­ber produced entirely without chemicals. 
“It feels like silk and it doesn’t smell. You can wash it just like anything else,” Domaske said. 
Made from all natural ma­terials, the QMilch fabric is ecological but also has many health benefits, said Domaske, who also said the amino acids in the protein are antibacte­rial, anti-aging and can help regulate both blood circula­tion and body temperature. 
Domaske’s fashion label Mademoiselle Chi Chi has now started weaving the milk fibre into its collection. 
“We have developed an all-natural fiber consisting of a very high concentration of ca­sein, with a few other natural ingredients -- and in only two years,” the former microbiol­ogy student Domaske said. 
The casein is extracted from dried milk powder and then heated up in a type of meat-mincing machine with other natural ingredients. The fiber comes out in strands and is then spun into yarn on a spinning machine. 
The clothes don’t come with an expiry date —during the heating process, the mol­ecules bind in such a way that the protein won’t decompose. 
Whale of a tale 
YORKSHIRE — Man may have crawled out of the pri­mordial ooze, but whales crawling out of the ocean? 
British officials came upon a 33-foot-long sei whale in a grassy Yorkshire field. The nearest body of water was almost 800 yards away. Ex­perts don’t know how it got there, but suspect that it was washed ashore by an excep­tionally high tide. 
Sadly, sei whales are en­dangered. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Today, the Boardroom In-Sights Lecture Series will feature Terrence Cavanaugh, President and CEO of Erie Insurance. Cavanaugh will speak from 10:40 a.m. to 12 
p.m. in Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Busi­ness. 
The Donnelly Lecture Se­ries on Employee Participa­tion is sponsoring a lecture entitled “Is it Oil or Nothing” today from 12:15 to 1 p.m. in Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. The speaker is W. Douglas Ford, retired Chief Executive, Refining and Marketing for BP p.l.c. 
Today in room 122 of the Mendoza College of Business, there will be a Department of Accountancy Workshop from 1 to 3 p.m. The speaker is Ni­cole Jenkins of Vanerbilt Uni­versity. 
Today from 3 to 5 p.m. in room 220 Malloy Hall, there will be a philosophy collo­quium called “Panpsychism and Russellian Monism.” The speaker is David Chalmers of Australian National Univer­sity and NYU. 
There is a presentation titled “The Clothes You Wear Can Change the World - Alta Gracia Factory” today at 3:15 
p.m. in Geddes Hall. The Alta Gracia factory, located in the Dominican Republic, is a sweat-free factory run by Knights Apparel where work­ers are paid a living wage. Knights Apparel CEO Joe Bozich will speak at the pre­sentation. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

HIGH 77 LOW 52 
HIGH 77 LOW 55 

TODAY TONIGHT GAMEDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 









CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

Sociology interns gain real world experience 

By LAUREN HARUNO 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s Sociology In­ternship class provides a way for students to experience classroom lessons in the real world, bringing book learn­ing to life. 
“[Students] get the oppor­tunity to take their socio­logical knowledge out to the field, and see how sociologi­cal theory works in action, and reflect on the social con­ditions of the community.” 
Ann Marie Power, director of the sociology internship pro­gram, said. “It’s one thing to learn it in an academic set­ting, and another to actually have the flexibility of mind to call on [sociology] to help you to analyze what’s going on.” 
Senior Danny Jackson, an intern at the Robinson Com­munity Learning Center, said despite being only two months into his internship, he is already humbled by his experience. 

“I get a better understand­ing of the seriousness of the [education] problem, just the educational inequality that we have,” Jackson said. “Hopefully [down the line] I can change it.” 
More than 10 agencies ac­cept interns from the course, ranging from the South Bend Center for the Homeless to Indiana Legal Services, Pow­er said. 

“[These interns are] anoth­er very vital set of hands, an­other person who’s actively thinking, and helping [orga­nizations] to engage whatev­er the challenges are.” Power said. every four weeks as a class. 
Senior Christian Moore, Students engage academi­who interns at the local Sal-cally by completing readings vation Army, monitors the lo-that are both general and cal food pantry. He said his specific to their particular experience in the class has placement, and finish off the 
opened his eyes to the struggles of community members. 
“It’s chal­lenging see­ing all the struggles and not be­ing able to do any­thing im­mediately for people,” Moore said. “It’s like a wake-up call. When you’re on campus it’s really hard to relate to semes­ter with a presen­tation of their ex­perience through a

“It’s like a wake-up call. sociologi-
When you’re on campus it’s cal scope, 
really hard to relate to a lot Power of what’s going on with the said. majority of Americans.” Though 
much of their time 

Christian Moore 
is dedi­

senior 
cated to the in­ternship, Power said stu­dents must keep their 

a lot of what’s going on with course content in mind. the majority of Americans.” “I like to encourage them 
Interns put in six to eight to think about the difference hours at their agency per between knowing sociology week, and the course meets and making sense of what they’re doing versus some­body who just comes in off the street, and doesn’t have a sociological background.” she said. 
Moore said the sociology internships are rewarding and offer an experience that is atypical of common stu­dent internships. 
“A lot of people usually just intern with bigger firms, but actually interning at non­profits or schools is just as important and just as re­warding.” Moore said. 
Jackson said the intern­ship class allows students to 
experience  inequality  first  
hand.  
“It’s  one  thing  to  learn  

from a book,” Jackson said. “I mean you can hear all you want about the inequality, but until you really see it, how detrimental it is to these kids, you don’t really appre­ciate it. So I think it’s ex­tremely important to go out there and experience it first­hand.” 
Contact Lauren Haruno at  lharuno1@nd.edu 


Professor lectures on peace building 
By VIENNA WAGNER 
News Writer 
The key to resolving civil and territorial conflicts lies in footwear, Peter Wallen­steen, professor at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, said Thursday. 
“The outside world should wear moccasins rather than boots,” Wallensteen said in in the “Narrow Path to Peace Building” lecture. “We should approach peace building [by] walking very lightly.” 
Wallensteen said conflict resolutions should be based on local initiatives with an emphasis on security for and respect of local populations. 
“In resolving conflicts, we need to provide not just for security, which could be very repressive in nature, but also for the dignity of the inhab­itants,” he said. “There must be dignity through the rule of the law. The people should not be afraid of their govern­ment.” 
Local involvement is impor­tant for economic develop­ment in countries where con­flict has stunted economic growth, he said. 
“Job creation is another im­portant factor,” Wallensteen said. “If we are going to im­prove employment, it will have to be based on local ini­tiatives.” 
To maintain peace, Wallen­steen said long-term interna­tional involvement is crucial for local populations. “Peace building takes some­time between 15 and 30 years after a war,” Wallensteen said. “Normally the interna­tional community is not will­ing to commit for longer than a year or two. There will then be new tests of conflict or economic problems as well,” Wallensteen said. 
The process of walking lightly is not an easy one, he said. 
“Peace building is a nar­row path because it is not easy to get the results that we want,” Wallensteen said. “The problem is not just try­ing to stop conflicts or con­tain them, but to build lasting peace.” 
Wallensteen said in order to achieve peace, citizens must not only build, but de­molish some things as well. 
“The world has created too many walls, and we should tear those down,” he said. “These walls are not just physical ones, but also [eco­nomic ones].” 
Contact Vienna Wagner at vwagner2@nd.edu 

Saint Mary’s launches English Language School 
By MADELINE MILES 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s College launched the English Language School this semester to offer interna­tional students additional help learning a new language. 
The English Language School offers classes to non-native speakers, with a focus on pre­paring students for higher-level education.  The school hopes to attract more international stu­dents to Saint Mary’s College, the Center for Women’s Intercul­tural Leadership (CWIL) website said. 
“The benefits [of the English Language School] for our stu­dents is that it is greatly sup­porting the numbers of inter­national students on campus, which provides a diversity that gives us opportunity to interact with cross-cultures,” Director of CWIL Elaine Meyer-Lee said. “Those skills of intercultural competence are very important to functioning in any field to­day.” 
Meyer-Lee said a variety of students attend the English Lan­guage School. 
Members of the South Bend community, current interna­tional students at the College and students who have applied or will apply to Saint Mary’s are all welcome to attend. 
Mana Derakhshani, associate director of CWIL, said the School offers four courses in reading, writing, listening and speaking. 
Erika Pistorius Stamper and Arnie Chuah-Skwarcan teach the English Language School classes for a total of 25 hours each week. 
Additionally, Derakhshani said modern language labora­tories are available for more practice and extra-curricular cultural immersion activities, like field trips to Chicago, are in­cluded in the School. 
Derakhshani said she looks forward to the benefits that will come from diversifying the cam­pus through the English Lan­guage School. 
“It allows our more typical students to interact with women from other parts of the world,” she said. “For the students who are coming, it provides them with good, quality, intensive English language instruction in a congenial setting with op­portunities for interaction with American college students.” 
Meyer-Lee said the English Language School is in line with Saint Mary’s President Carol Ann Mooney and Derakhshani’s goal of increasing the number of international students attending Saint Mary’s. 
“Of course, I hope for it to grow exponentially,” Derakhshani said. “It’s good for the college to have these women on campus.” 
Contact Madeline Miles at                    mmiles01@saintmarys.edu 



Jewish 
continued from page 1 

tled Irish Jews Pizza Social, sponsored by the Midwest Torah Center in South Bend. 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
A student manager tapes protective pads to linebackers’ jerseys in the football locker room on Thursday. 
Managers 
continued from page 1 
said. 
“I actually get issued a work phone that has the player con­tacts and figure out where they are when they aren’t on time,” he said. “I always jump a little bit when I hear the [work] phone. [I think,] ‘Uh, oh what do I have to do now?’” 
His most unique job is watching over Irish coach Brian Kelly’s bag, he said. 
“I got Coach Kelly’s bag [and] I have to keep it with me at all times,” Feldpausch said. “I carry it on the plane with me and make sure it does not leave my sight.” 
Kueny oversees personnel in­volved in making the football game days run smoothly. 
“I’m the personnel manager, so I’m the person responsible for organizing, scheduling and train­ing all the sophomore and junior managers,” she said. 
During practice, Kueny makes sure the junior and sophomore managers set up the field proper­ly and know what drills are being performed. She is also responsi­ble for setting up the field before the game and helps run the pre­game warm ups. 
While the program is fairly fluid now, it is in the midst of changes, she said. Next year, the number of football managers will decrease. Only those who express a deep interest in the football program will work with Irish football, while the other manag­ers will specialize in the Olympic sports, Kueny said. 
“We’ll have a football pool for people who really want to do foot­ball and an Olympic sports pool, so people really go towards their interest,” she said. 
Cullen said the managers sup­port the team both on and off-sea­son, but their hard work comes to fruition 12 Saturdays a year. 
“We work for about eight months of the year, [but] when you really think about it, it comes down to 12 football games,” he said. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
“The goal of the group is to bring Jews togeth­er,” Silver said. 
At their Monday meetings in LaFor tune Student Cen­ter, the club brings Jew­ish students together to discuss Ju­daism, Jew­ish heritage, 

“The goal of the group is to bring Jews together.” 
Jonathan Silver fourth-year graduate student 
important moral topics and any other subjects the group wishes to discuss, Silver said. 
The group consists of four engineering grad students, and Rabbi Gred Nebel of the Midwest Torah Center leads a discussion. 
“I bring some materials to start with, but the discussion goes wherever the students want to go. It’s an open end­ed lunch time discussion,” Rabbi Nebel said. “We’re not stuck with the topics I bring.” 
Silver said these groups have the potential to be very influential in Jewish stu­dents’ lives. 
“The schools that Rabbi Nebel and I went to as under­graduates had such groups and we both found them to be very influential in our lives,” Silver said. “This is some­thing he and I have wanted to start at Notre Dame for a few years now.” 
Silver said the Pizza Social is an important part of his 
Notre Dame experience. 
“Having this group allows me to bond with other Jewish stu­dents in a way I nev­er thought was pos­sible when I first decid­ed to come to Notre Dame,” Sil­ver said. 
Sophomore Ben Finan is the president of the Notre 
Like Silver, Finan said he recognizes the importance of the Jewish Club in his life. 
“I see the Jewish Club as a way for me to share my faith and religion with people who are interested,” Finan said. “I very much enjoy showing others how I practice my re­ligion and the influence that Judaism has on my everyday life.” 
First year graduate stu­dent Zachariah Silver, the younger brother of Jonathan Silver, said Notre Dame is a comfortable environment for him to practice his Jewish religion. 
“It’s nice to come here and be unique. Everyone is nice about me being Jewish and wants to understand the re­ligion. I’ve made friends here and most of them are not Jewish,” Silver said. 
Despite some difficulty, Fi­
nan said his 
experience 

Dame Jewish Club, a simi­lar group but with slight­ly different goals. “The Jew­ “Having this group allows me to bond with other Jewish students in a way I never thought was possible when I first decided to come  at Notre Dame has been a posi­tive one. “ B ei ng a Jewish student at  
ish  Club  is  to Notre Dame.”  Notre Dame  
around  to  has had its  
allow  Jews  Jonathan Silver  s t r u g g le s,  
andJews  non­ alike  fourth-year graduate student  but I have overall re- 

to explore Jewish reli­gious practices and Jewish culture. We are open to all students, and currently have about 75 members — about 10 of [whom] are Jewish,” Fi­nan said. 
ally enjoyed 
it. It has lead me to grow more faith­ful within my religion,” Fi­nan said. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 

Franks said that during his are actually much more sig­that he has always taken the 
time at Notre Dame, he has nificant. Holiday 
Jobs 

approach that you can’t ask never experienced anything “In American culture, 
customers what they want be-continued from page 1 but respect from students non-Jewish people are 
continued from page 1 cause they don’t actually know and colleagues, However, he overly-aware of Hanukkah 
what to ask for,” he said. tant professor of theology who feels there is a general lack of because of its approximate 
port and nurture the culture The big question now for practices Orthodox Judaism, awareness of Judaism on cam-simultaneity with Christ-
and encourage all of those who Apple is whether the com-said Yom Kippur is spent al-pus. mas, and Passover … with 
were attracted to Mr. Jobs to pany will continue to produce most exclusively in prayer with “There’s not a lot of aware-Easter,” Franks said. 
sustain their momentum,” he cutting-edge products without one’s religious community. ness on campus about the na-A key difference between 
said. “He won’t have the same Jobs, Angst said. “[Yom Kippur is] an ex-ture of Jewish thought, and yet the High Holy Days and fes­
genius insight into technology “There are few people that tremely communal holiday be-there’s a lot of interest. That’s tivals like Hanukkah and 
that Jobs had, but he has enor-would say that the success of cause the entire day is spent in a very fertile ground to en-Passover, Blum said, is that 
mous resources and some of a multi-billion dollar company the synagogue with the com-lighten people,” he said. the Holy Days are spent in 
the best minds on earth work-like Apple could hinge on only munity. In some respects it’s Franks said he meets with deep contemplation and 
ing for him.  He won’t have the one person, even a charismatic the most intensely communal students outside of class once prayer rather than celebra­
same personal charisma and leader like Jobs,” Angst said. “I holiday,” he said. “There is a a year to discuss Judaism and tion. 
communicative abilities, but suspect that what Jobs has left sense that one stands before take questions about the reli-“They provide an oppor­
who would?” is a highly innovative culture God as a community.” gion. He said the purpose of tunity for a sense of renewal 
Sophomore Catherine Si-that now pervades all ranks of He said Yom Kippur, also these discussions is to dispel and rejuvenation, a time of 
monson said she uses her iPod employees at Apple, and I fully known as the Day of Atone-misconceptions. returning, repenting, ask-
every day. expect them to innovate for de­ment, consists of prayer and a “In American culture, there’s ing forgiveness,” she said. 
“I think [Jobs] kind of de-cades to come.” 25-hour fast, from sunset un-an idea that Judaism is prob-Franks said even within 
fined our generation,” Simon-American Studies professor til the emergence of stars the ably pretty similar to whatever the Jewish tradition, the 
son said. “Even in terms of Robert Schmuhl said Jobs also next day. religious belief system people way different congregations 
email, it is just assumed that shaped the world of modern What distinguishes Yom Kip-are acquainted with, but in re-interpret the High Holy Days 
you will get your email on your media. pur from all other fast days, ality this isn’t true,” he said. varies. 
phone now … I was watching a “With Jobs at the helm, Ap­he said, is that Jews refrain Susan Blum, professor of an-He said the Orthodox tra­
video about him where he was ple has been in the vanguard of from additional sources of en-thropology who practices Con-dition especially emphasiz­
talking about the iPhone. He media development,” Schmuhl joyment, like wearing leather servative Judaism, said famil-es a focus on God over the 
said, ‘This is your life in your said. “The communications shoes, wearing makeup and iarity with Judaism and what individual. 
pocket.’” world is different because of having sexual intercourse. it stands for ranges on campus. “We’re now going to think 
Apple has been at the center him. Music is distributed dif-Novick said in the days lead-“There’s a lot of variation. I of ourselves as one cog in 
of technological developments ferently. Entertainment is ing to Yom Kippur, Jews seek think some faculty and some the wheel of the Jewish peo­
over the past several decades more accessible. And news direct forgiveness from others students are quite knowledge-ple,” he said. “[There’s a] 
“He played a major role in now arrives via iPhone or iPad because it is not in God’s power able, and others are quite ig-notion of Jewish community 
solidifying [the way we com-at any moment.” to forgive interpersonal sins. norant,” Blum said. “Students functioning as a collective. 
municate] in that aspect,” she Schmuhl said the future of “Jewish theology recognizes tend to be very curious. They Our individual selves are 
said. Apple is now uncertain. two kinds of sins, sins against tend not to know that much not as important.” 
Cory Angst, assistant profes-“Can Apple continue to God and sins against one’s about [Judaism.] Some of the The core themes of the 
sor of management, called the lead the way without him?” fellow human being,” Novick ones who went to Catholic High Holy Days, however, 
former Apple CEO a “master-Schmuhl said. “That’s a ques­said. “It’s not a matter of sim-school and had only Catholic remain consistent, Franks 
mind.” tion worth considering now.” ply standing before God, but friends growing up are very said. 
“I think the thing that sets standing before one’s fellows.” curious and eager to discuss.” “Although you find dif­
him [and Apple] apart … from Contact Megan Doyle at Assistant Professor of Phi-Blum said spirituality on ferences in emphasis, the 
other innovative companies is mdoyle11@nd.edu losophy Curtis Franks, who Notre Dame’s campus is acces-main task at this time of the is also an Orthodox Jew, said sible even to those outside of year is to somehow navigate prayer and self-scrutiny dur-the Christian tradition. those waters. There’s a ten­ing Yom Kippur are intense. “I’ve never had a negative re-sion, almost a paradox. You 
“It’s very introspective and action from anybody at Notre have to both correct your self-focused,” he said. “I want Dame,” Blum said. “I always mistakes and become a bet-to better myself … I want to get a sense of respect.” ter person,” Franks said. have atonement for my trans-Franks said Hanukkah and “To pull that off is a balanc­gressions and to become more Passover are often falsely per-ing act.” religiously committed or ethi-ceived to be the most impor­cally responsible than I had tant holidays in the Jewish Contact Sara Felsenstein at                  been in the past.” religion — the High Holy Days sfelsens@nd.edu 

Funeral draws thousands 


Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — More than 1,000 mourners thronged a fu­neral in a New Orleans cathedral shrouded in black crepe Thursday for its beloved former archbishop Philip Hannan, who had delivered the graveside eulogies after the assassinations of John F. Kennedy and his brother Robert. 
A horse-drawn hearse carried the remains of the 98-year-old Catholic clergyman on a 4 and ½ mile route through New Orleans into the French Quarter district where venerable St. Louis Cathe­dral was adorned with huge black bows and sprays of red-and-white flowers for the funeral attended by numerous VIPs. Among those present was Victoria Kennedy, widow of the late Sen. Edward M. Kennedy. 
The 98-year-old archbishop, whose close ties to the Kennedy clan dated to the 1940s, died peacefully before dawn on Sept. 
29. He had been in declining health recently. 
When President Kennedy was assassinated on Nov. 22, 1963, widow Jacqueline asked Hannan to deliver the eulogy because of his longstanding friendship with the president. Hannan also of­ficiated at a quiet reburial of two Kennedy infants in 1964 so their bodies could be near their father’s in Arlington National Cemetery. And in 1968, Hannan traveled again from New Orleans to deliver the graveside eulogy for Sen. Rob­ert. F. Kennedy after he was as­sassinated. 
When Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis died of cancer in 1994, Hannan was again at Arlington to preside at a brief service before her burial. 

Thousands viewed Hannan’s body at New Orleans Notre Dame Seminary for three days starting Monday and more lined the route the hearse took to the cathedral. Another 300 seats had to be set up in the grassy park outside where tourists milled about in the French Quarter, a popular attrac­tion. Hannan was the most active of the city’s archbishops for his 23 years in that position and he remained active during his retire­ment. 
Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal, New Orleans Mayor Mitch Landrieu and others from politics, the echelons of the Roman Catho­lic church and even professional sports were on hand. Among the honorary pall bearers were for­mer U.S. Rep. Lindy Boggs and New Orleans Saints owner Tom Benson and Xavier University president Norman C. Francis. 
Amish quarrel over spiritual differences 
Associated Press 
STEUBENVILLE, Ohio — A group of religious castoffs has been attacking fellow Amish, cutting off their hair and beards in an apparent feud over spiritual differences, a sheriff said Thursday, and one victim blamed relatives involved in a cult. 
No charges have been filed, but several victims suffered mi­nor injuries, Jefferson County Sheriff Fred Abdalla said. The investigation has been ham­pered by the traditional reluc­tance of Amish to turn to law enforcement. 
Men and sometimes women from a group of Jefferson Coun­ty families disavowed by main­stream Amish have terrorized a half-dozen or more fellow Amish, cutting the beards off men and the hair off men and women, the sheriff said. The attacks occurred over the past three weeks in Carroll, Holmes, Jefferson and Trumbull coun­ties, which form the heart of Ohio’s Amish population, one of the nation’s largest. 
Abdalla said the motive may be related to unspecified reli­gious differences involving 18 Amish families, 17 of them re­lated, that have drawn previous attention from law enforcement, including a threat against the sheriff and a relative convicted of sexual contact with a minor. 
The families under investi­gation live in Bergholz, a small community located in hilly farm country 10 miles west of the Ohio River, and run a leather shop and do carpentry work, the sheri 
Cutting the hair and beards apparently was meant to be de­grading and insulting, he said. 
In the case in Trumbull County, 75 miles northwest of Steubenville, a 57-year-old woman blamed her sons and a son-in-law for an attack on her husband and said they were in­volved in a cult. The sons and son-in-law “did that to him,” the woman told deputies, pointing at her husband’s ragged, short beard. 
Then she took off a bandana and showed bare scalp patches and said, “They did this to me,” according to a report on the Sept. 6 incident in Mesopota­mia. 
Deputies went to the home when alerted by Abdalla’s of­fice. The couple said they didn’t want to file a complaint and re­peatedly asked that their sons be informed of that decision. 
It’s common practice for mar­ried Amish men to have beards, said Donald Kraybill, a profes­sor at Elizabethtown College and an expert on Amish life. 
“Likewise, women do not cut their hair based on biblical teaching,” he told The Associ­ated Press in an email. 


Men charged in Army Corps bribe case held in jail 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Two Army Corps of Engineers employ­ees and a third man charged in a $20 million bribery, mon­ey laundering and kickback scheme will remain in jail as they await trial, a federal mag­istrate ruled Thursday, as pros­ecutors argued the defendants posed flight risks because they could face decades-long prison sentences if convicted. 
A fourth man will also re­main at least temporarily in jail pending additional arguments on Tuesday. 
The four were arrested Tues­day in what federal prosecutors describe as one of the largest federal contracting scams in the nation’s history. The indict­ment, unsealed Tuesday, has prompted calls for investigation from several members of Con­gress who want to know how the alleged scam — which spanned four years — could have gone undetected and whether bet­ter controls and oversight are needed. 
The defendants are accused in a plot to direct government work to an information technol­ogy subcontractor in exchange for kickbacks that prosecutors say paid for real estate, sports cars, fancy watches and cloth­ing and first-class airline tick­ets. They appeared in U.S. Dis­trict Court Thursday in orange prison jumpsuits, but did not address the judge. 
Kerry F. Khan, an Army Corps of Engineers program manager with authority to certify work orders and order products and services through agency contracts, waived his right to a detention hearing and agreed to remain locked up. 
U.S. Magistrate Judge Debo­rah Robinson ordered detained Khan’s son, Lee A. Khan, and another Army Corps employee, Michael A. Alexander. A fourth defendant, Harold F. Babb, will remain held until at least Tues­day after his lawyer requested additional time to review the case and prepare arguments.. 
Prosecutors say the case against the four men is over­whelming and argued they had the assets and incentives to flee. Alexander has traveled abroad at least 23 times in the last decade, including 19 trips to South Korea, where prosecu­tors say he had a mistress. Fed­eral agents searching his home on Tuesday found more than $180,000 in cash, said prosecu­tor Michael Atkinson. Because the investigation is continuing and involves other “corrupt government contractors,” At­kinson said, there are govern­ment witnesses with incentive to help Alexander flee. 
Alexander’s lawyer, Chris­topher Davis, argued that his client’s wife was ill with cancer and that the government had plenty of ways to ensure Alex­ander’s future court appear­ances and to insulate him from government witnesses. 
“She needs him, and I don’t think the United States needs him in the D.C. jail as much as she needs him right now,” Davis said. 
Lee Khan, prosecutors say, poses a risk to the commu­nity because he was recorded threatening to kill his brother 
— who was imprisoned in a felony drug trafficking case — after his brother threatened to snitch on his family if he didn’t get a cut of the proceeds. He was ultimately paid nearly $400,000 to buy his silence, court papers allege. 


“If Mr. Lee Khan is a threat to a family member, his own brother, it’s reasonable for the court to conclude that he would be a similar threat to other gov­ernment witnesses,” Atkinson said. 
Khan’s lawyer, Edward Suss-man, called the threat a “quick reaction to a volatile situation” and said there was no indica­tion any step was taken to carry out the treat. 
Prosecutors say Babb, who had been director of contrac­tors for Eyak Technology LLC, tried to conceal the scheme by transferring $2 million of the proceeds to the Bahamas and $218,000 to Panama. He also had $10,000 in his home when agents searched it, prosecutors say. 
Eyak Technology is a subsid­iary of an Alaska Native Corpo­ration with Virginia operations. It was the prime contractor for a five-year, $1 billion contract administered by the Army Corps of Engineers. The indict­ment says the chief technology officer of a Virginia-based sub­contractor on that contract — identified in the indictment only as Company A — submitted phony and inflated quotes for its services to EyakTek, which passed on the invoices to the government. EyakTek subtract­ed its profit margin and then paid the remainder to Company A, and $20 million in falsely in­flated invoices were funneled back to the four defendants, the indictment says. 
EyakTek says it has cooper­ated with the investigation, and that Babb has been fired. 
Critics say the charges illustrate unfair procurement advantages enjoyed by Alaska Native Corpo­rations in obtaining lucrative fed­eral contracts. U.S. Sen. Claire Mc-Caskill, a Missouri Democrat who chairs a Senate subcommittee on contracting oversight, introduced a bill last year that would strip the corporations of an edge. In an interview with The Associat­ed Press on Thursday, McCaskill said the amount of money in these contracts is “enough to make you dizzy.” 


Senate postpones vote to put sanctions on China’s currency 
the past decade and that the He said the Senate bill was currency rate would bring jobs advantage Chinese producers an effort to get at these prac-back to the U.S., saying that have because of the under-tices, but he stressed that lower-wage countries such as valued currency could prove whatever tools are put in place Vietnam or Bangladesh would devastating as China prepares must adhere to international move in if Chinese goods be-to enter world markets in com-treaties and obligations. come more expensive. mercial aircraft and automo-But the legislation has bi-Chinese Foreign Ministry biles. partisan backing from sena-spokesman Ma Zhaoxu said in 
“We cannot continue to let tors responding to popular re-a statement this week that the China flaunt the rules,” Sen. sentment to the way China has bill violated World Trade Or-Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., said. come to dominate U.S. markets ganization rules “and serious-If action isn’t taken, “we may and driven American manu-ly disturbed China-U.S. trade never recover as a country. facturers out of business. and economic relations.” This is serious stuff.” The Alliance for American But Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-
The legislation, even if it Manufacturing, a labor-man-Ohio, a chief sponsor of the passes the Senate, is still a agement partnership that sup-legislation, said it was unlike-way from becoming law. House ports the bill, cites figures that ly China would start a trade supporters of a similar bill say a 28.5 percent appreciation of war. “You don’t initiate a trade they have 225 co-sponsors, the yuan would create up to war if you are China. ... We’re enough to pass it, but Speaker 2.25 million American jobs their biggest customer. They Associated Press The China currency legis-John Boehner, R-Ohio, doesn’t and reduce the annual trade have way more to lose than we lation, years in the making, like it and could prevent it deficit by $190.5 billion. do if they initiate a trade war.” WASHINGTON — A Senate reflects frustration at the fail-from reaching the floor for a The legislation is widely op-Regardless of the outcome vote to impose sanctions on ures by the Obama adminis-vote. He said this week that it posed by larger companies of the currency legislation, the China for its unfair currency trations and past presidents to was “pretty dangerous” to tell and groups that do business debate gave senators an op-practices was put off Thurs-change Chinese policy through another country how to set its with China, which warn that portunity to vent on a long list day, delayed by the partisan diplomacy, and the Chinese monetary policy. Beijing would retaliate against of Chinese practices that im­divisions that have come to economic onslaught that saw The White House has re-American companies, initiat-pede U.S. sales to that country, characterize this Congress. the trade deficit with China hit mained noncommittal, but has ing a trade war. including violation of intellec-
The bill, which makes it eas-$273 billion last year. emphasized the importance of “Unilateral action by the tual property rights, technol­ier to raise tariffs against Chi-It is aimed at the practice working through diplomatic United States will only serve ogy theft, cyber espionage and nese goods if China keeps its of keeping the yuan, the Chi-and international channels to increase trade tensions and Chinese government subsidies currency undervalued, is now nese currency, undervalued rather than challenging the negatively impact the U.S. eco-to domestic industries. set for a likely vote Tuesday, against the dollar, making Chinese with unilateral action nomic recovery during this Senate Foreign Relations when it is expected to pass Chinese exports cheaper and that could result in retaliation fragile period in the global Committee Chairman John with bipartisan support. U.S. products sold in China from the Chinese. economy,” Bruce Josten of the Kerry, D-Mass., said it was 
But partisanship ruled the more expensive. Economists President Barack Obama U.S. Chamber of Commerce “an important debate because day Thursday when Senate say the yuan is 25 percent to said at a news conference wrote senators this week. I think China needs to care-Majority Leader Harry Reid, 30 percent undervalued, with Thursday that it was “indis-Erin Ennis, vice president of fully think about and process D-Nev., and Republican lead-some putting the figure as putable” that the Chinese the U.S.-China Business Coun-the substance of what people er Mitch McConnell couldn’t high as 40 percent, giving Chi-“intervene heavily in the cur-cil, said the Chinese could also are saying here on the floor agree on what amendments nese producers a significant rency markets.” He said China react in more subtle ways, such of the United States Senate.” would be allowed, and Demo-advantage against American “has been very aggressive in as choosing European over He added: “I don’t think that crats used their majority pow-competitors. gaming the trading system American aircraft and picking we’re here to rupture that re­ers to push through a rule Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-to its advantage and to the fewer American companies lationship. I think we’re here change that restricts the of-S.C., cited estimates that Chi-disadvantage of other coun-for Chinese government pro-to send a message to the Chi­fering of non-relevant amend-na has cost the U.S. some 2 tries, particularly the United curement contracts. She also nese about the urgent need to ments to legislation. million manufacturing jobs in States.” questioned whether a fairer repair it.” 
Missouri parents search for missing 10-month-old 

Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. — The parents of a missing 10-month­old Missouri girl have given po­lice more than a dozen names as they try to think of potential sus­pects or people who paid espe­cially close attention to the child, a relative said Thursday. 
Investigators have no suspects and few solid leads despite an intensive search for Lisa Irwin, whose parents say was snatched from her crib sometime Monday night or early Tuesday. 
“We’re scraping for anything, anyone who was at the house, who looked at her strange. Any­thing,” said Mike Lerette, a cous­in of the baby’s mother. 
Her parents are trying to re­member people who recently came into contact with Lisa or paid her extra attention. Lerette said he is encouraging them to think of anyone, from utility workers who visited their Kan­sas City home to store cashiers, and they’ve compiled a list of more than a dozen names. 
A police spokesman said he wasn’t aware of those conver­sations but that it would make sense it such cases. 
“They’re probably jogging their brains to think of any per­son that they maybe haven’t told us about,” Capt. Steve Young said. 
The child’s parents, Jeremy Irwin and Deborah Bradley, said they frantically searched their home for any sign of their daughter Tuesday morning but found only an open window, an unlocked front door and house lights blazing. 
The family’s three cellphones, including one that didn’t work, also were missing, the couple said during a tearful news con­ference Thursday morning as search crews focused on a heav­ily wooded area, sewers and an industrial park. 
Irwin said he immediately knew something was wrong when he returned home from work about 4 a.m. Tuesday. He checked on their other children, 6-year-old and 8-year-old boys, then went to Lisa’s room and dis­covered her gone. 
“I said, ‘What do you mean she is not in her crib?’” said Bradley, who had checked on her daugh­ter about five hours earlier. “I just knew, you know, that some­thing was really wrong. We ran around the house and screaming for her, but she was nowhere.” 
Bradley said that’s when they discovered the phones had been taken, guessing it was to delay them from calling police. As she hugged her crying sons, Bradley said, Irwin checked outside and eventually contacted police. 
“All I can think of is that may­be somebody wanted a baby,” she said. 
Lisa has blue eyes and blonde hair, is 30 inches tall and weighs around 28 pounds. She was last seen wearing purple shorts and a purple shirt with pictures of white kittens. Police have said the parents aren’t suspects in her disappearance. 
Later Thursday, the parents mistakenly thought police had a lead in the case when investiga­tors began searching the wood­ed area again, and they imme­diately rushed to the command post police set up about a mile from the home, Young said. 
“They assumed we had a big break and they wanted to find out what it was,” Young said. “If you’re the mother of a miss­ing child and you think there’s a development, I would think you’d want to go to the command post and find out.” 
Investigators extended their search Thursday, with about 100 officers scouring an industrial area and adjacent woods. Others searched sewers, lifting drain covers and crawling inside. 
Randy Thurston, a warehouse manager, said officers also went through the industrial park Tuesday, searching trash bins and pipes, but Thursday’s search was “much more intense over here today.” 
Investigators’ intensive search has included federal agents using search dogs to go over the family’s home and nearby woods, helicopters, all-terrain vehicles and door-to-door inter­views with neighbors. 
Police have said one possibility was whether someone entered the home through a front win­dow and snatched the baby, but they haven’t pointed to any sign of forced entry. 
Irwin said the abduction has been especially hard on Lisa’s older brothers, who constantly ask if their sister has been found. 
“We tell them, ‘Not yet, not yet,’” Irwin said. “It’s the only thing we can think to tell them.” 


Unemployment rate expected to stagnate 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON, D.C. — For more Americans, being out of work has become a semi-perma­nent condition. 
Nearly one-third of the unem­ployed — nearly 4.5 million peo­ple — have had no job for a year or more. That’s a record high. Many are older workers who have found it especially hard to find jobs. 
And economists say their prospects won’t brighten much even after the economy starts to strengthen and hiring picks up. Even if they can find a job, it will likely pay far less than their old ones did. 
The outlook is unlikely to im­prove on Friday, when the gov­ernment issues its monthly jobs report. Economists predict it will show that employers added a net 56,000 jobs in September. 
That’s far fewer than needed to reduce unemployment. The unemployment rate is expected to remain 9.1 percent for a third straight month. 
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke last week called long-term unemployment a “na­tional crisis” and said it should be one of Congress’ top priorities. 
When people are out of work for a year or more, their skills often decline. Their professional networks shrink. Companies hesitate to hire them. The prob­lem feeds on itself. 
“It’s a serious threat,” said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Analytics. “A growing proportion of the labor force is becoming disenfranchised.” 
Long-term unemployment sets this recession and weak recovery apart from any other period since the Great Depression. Though the economy has endured “job­less recoveries” before, in no pre­vious recovery has such a high proportion of the unemployed been out of work this long. 
Labor Department figures show that for roughly the past year and a half, one in three of the unemployed have been with­out a job for at least a year. That’s more than double the previous peak after the 1981-82 recession. 
Businesses would have to start hiring much faster before a larger proportion of the long­term unemployed would find work. Many employers see them as riskier than other potential hires. Some might need addi­tional training. Companies aren’t likely to take such risks until the economy shows consistent strength. 
Brian Wedding, a roofing con­tractor based in Baton Rouge, La., acknowledges that he spends more time evaluating job ap­plicants who have been unem­ployed for long periods. 


NYPD spies on NY Muslim anti-terror partner 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Reda Shata considered himself a partner in New York’s fight against ter­rorism. He cooperated with the police and FBI, invited officers to his mosque for breakfast, even dined with Mayor Michael Bloomberg. 
Despite the handshakes and photo ops, however, the New York Police Department was all the while watching the Egyptian sheik. Even as Sha­ta’s story was splashed across the front page of The New York Times in a Pulitzer Prize-win­ning series about Muslims in America, an undercover offi­cer and an informant were as­signed to monitor him, and two others kept tabs on his mosque that same year. 
“What did they find?” Shata asked through an interpret­er at his current mosque in Monmouth County, N.J., after learning about the secret sur­veillance. “It’s a waste of time and a waste of money.” 
Shata welcomed FBI agents to his mosque to speak to Mus­lims, invited NYPD officers for breakfast and threw parties for officers who were leaving the precinct during his time at the Islamic Center of Bay Ridge. As police secretly watched him in 2006, he had breakfast and dinner with Bloomberg at Gra­cie Mansion and was invited to meet with Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly, Shata recalls. 
“This is very sad,” he said after seeing his name in the NYPD file. “What is your feel­ing if you see this about people you trusted?” 
This was life in America for Shata: a government partner in the fight against terrorism and a suspect at the same time. 
The dichotomy between si­multaneously being partner and suspect is common among some of New York’s Muslims. Some of the same mosques that city leaders visited to hail their strong alliances with the Muslim community have also been placed under NYPD sur­veillance — in some cases in­filtrated by undercover police officers and informants. 
In April, more than 100 area imams publicly supported a rally to “oppose wars, condemn terrorism and fight Islamopho­bia.” Of those, more than 30 were either identified by name or work in mosques included in the NYPD’s 2006 listing of sus­picious people and places. 
“The way things are play­ing out in New York does not paint a picture of partnership and of a conversation among equals,” said Ramzi Kassem, a professor at the City University of New York School of Law. “It seems that city officials prefer hosting Ramadan banquets to engaging with citizens who wish to hold them to account. Spying on almost every aspect of community life certainly does not signal a desire to en­gage constructively.” 
An Associated Press investi­gation has found that the NYPD dispatched undercover officers into ethnic communities to monitor daily life and scruti­nized more than 250 mosques and Muslim student groups in the years after the Sept. 11 ter­rorist attacks. Some of its pro­grams were developed with the help of seasoned CIA officers. 


On Wednesday, seven New York Democratic state sena­tors called for the state at­torney general to investigate the NYPD’s spying on Mus­lim neighborhoods. And last month, the CIA announced an inspector general investigation into the agency’s partnership with the NYPD. 
A small number of Capitol Hill and New York lawmakers have called for greater over­sight and controls over the po­lice department’s intelligence unit. But most in politics, including President Barack Obama, have shown no inter­est in even talking about what the NYPD is doing, much less saying whether they support it. 
NYPD spokesman Paul Browne did not return messag­es over two days. Bloomberg’s office, which has repeatedly re­ferred questions to the NYPD, also did not respond. 
Liberal members of New York City Council and Muslim and civil rights groups plan to pub­licly raise questions Thursday about the police department’s tactics in the years since 9/11. 
The spying has not been lim­ited to Shata. In May, Bloom­berg and Kelly organized a news conference to discuss two suspected terrorists. Ap­pearing with the officials was Mohammad Shamsi Ali, an imam regularly at the mayor’s side for public appearances that touch on Muslim issues. Shamsi Ali said he and the mayor have maintained good communication over the years. In July, he was invited to a pre-Ramadan conference hosted by the NYPD, and for the past three years he said he has been invited to speak at the police academy about Islam and Mus­lims. 
Yet in 2006, the NYPD in­filtrated two mosques where Shamsi Ali holds leadership roles — the Islamic Cultural Center of New York and the Jamaica Muslim Center. The NYPD cited radical rhetoric and possible money laundering in the Islamic Cultural Center of New York and said the Ja­maica Muslim Center was a hub of radicalization that offered martial arts training. Shamsi Ali said he was unaware of the police assessments and denied the underlying accusations. 
“How do you define rheto­ric?” Shamsi Ali asked. He said some imams sound harsh when they’re preaching. If the NYPD suspected money launder­ing, it should ask the Internal Revenue Service to audit the mosque, he said. 
“It’s wrong to view Muslims as radicals simply because of the outfit,” Shamsi Ali said. 
Last year, after a Pakistani-American man was accused of attempting to detonate a car bomb in Times Square, Kelly, the police commissioner, vis­ited the Al-Iman mosque in Astoria, Queens, where he praised a Muslim street vendor for reporting the suspicious ve­hicle to local police. Kelly as­sured members of the mosque that racial profiling is prohib­ited by the police, though he acknowledged in response to a question that officers will con­duct random checks of people who fit the particular descrip­tion. 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Confederate flag closure 
It has been 146 years since Robert E. Lee and Ulysses S. Grant sat down inside a court­house in Appomattox, Va. to cease the bloodi­est war in American history. The legacy of the Civil War serves as a stark reminder to our grave past. While neither Northern Adam Llorens nor Southern states should choose to News Writer mark this grim time period with celebration, it is certainly not an event that should soon be forgotten. 
Unfortunately, some Americans decide the best way to remember the past is to fly the Confederate battle flag. While this is a travesty in itself, the situation worsens when students, albeit “the best and the brightest,” come from across the world to the University of Notre Dame and use the Confederate flag to “honor” their heritage. Whether it’s hanging in their dorm rooms or wearing it on their clothes, the flag simply does not belong at Notre Dame, a school that prides itself on both its Catholic character and academic strength. 
Believe me, I am proud of my roots and heritage, too. I could not be more proud to currently call Grosse Pointe, Mich. home. Like­wise, I feel just as honored to have lived nearly 10 years of my life in Franklin, Tenn., a quaint town just south of Nashville that was the site of one of the bloodiest battles in the Civil War. 
At the center of the downtown Franklin district is a Confederate memorial statue, honoring the Southern men who lost their lives fighting for their homeland in the Battle of Franklin. No Confederate flags surround the statue. A couple blocks away is McGavock Confederate Cemetery, the largest privately held Confederate cemetery in the United States. Once again, the battle flag is nowhere to be found. 
So why at places of upmost respect for the Confederate war efforts do governmental offi­cials and landowners choose not to include the flag for which many of the fallen men fought? They realize that we are 146 years since the conclusion of the bloodiest war in American history. Moreover, they understand that the war was fought, amongst other reasons, over the institution of slavery, an issue that many Americans feel to be the single worst law our country had legalized in its history. 
I believe it is plausible to say that when a reason for war is upholding the law of the enslavement of another human being, the battle flag for the pro-slavery side will become a symbol of both hatred and heartache to those who were adversely affected by it. So why has this flag made its way to the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, an institution that firmly believes in the foundations of diversity and community? 
Supporters of the flag will counter, saying the Confederate flag represents heritage, not hate. They will spew off little known facts about the Civil War and twist it so tightly that the issue of slavery will be appear to be a non­existent reason as to why the South seceded. Membership cards for the Sons of Confederate Veterans and United Daughters of the Confed­eracy will be brought to the table. They will tell me how the flag is their personal tribute to both their ancestors and homeland. While it’s commendable to take pride in your past and present, it should not be done at the expense of others whom may take offense to certain symbols of pride. The Confederate flag is a symbol both of Southern heritage and slavery and segregation. It’s been used by the Ku Klux Klan and hundreds of other extremist groups. 
Saying this, I am respectfully calling for the students of Notre Dame to terminate their usage of the Confederate flag. Far too many have been hurt fighting both for and against the flag. It would pain me to see a member of my Notre Dame family feel distressed because of the flag’s troublesome message. 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

ND hockey sets new precedent 
Notre Dame announced Wednesday its top-ranked hockey team would join the Hockey East conference for the 2013-14 season. The announcement carries effects far beyond the rink, and sets lofty precedents for the University to follow as college sports enter an uncertain time. 
With the Central Collegiate Hockey Association disband­ing after this season, Notre Dame Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick faced a decision: Join another con­
ference or set the Irish hockey team indepen­dent of all ties. In many respects, it appears Swarbrick chose the former, while enjoying the luxuries of the latter nonetheless. 
NBC Sports announced at the Wednesday press conference it had brought hockey into its ongoing broadcast deal with the Irish. 
While details of the deal were not announced 
— Swarbrick said they only had been “outlined” — Irish coach Jeff Jackson hinted Notre Dame could possibly have all of its home games aired nationally on either NBC or Ver­sus. No collegiate hockey program in the country currently has a deal in that stratosphere. In fact, many NHL teams would drool at the prospect. 
“The University of Notre Dame’s hockey team will have a more robust television platform than any hockey team in the country,” Swarbrick said matter-of-factly. 
Combined with the opening of the Compton Family Ice Arena in exactly two weeks, just in time for the rabid crowds descending on campus for the football game against USC, the Irish hockey team has established itself as a na­tional power off the ice, along with its recent dominance on the ice. 
A state-of-the art arena and a television deal were once the sole property of the football team, and the former could be strongly debated. But suddenly Swarbrick and Jackson have maneuvered hockey into that realm. 
The fact of the matter is, both basketball programs are on a similar level, both soccer programs are not far behind, and neither is the men’s lacrosse team. And while it does not receive much publicity, the Irish fencing team is the rea­son Grace Hall’s most prominent feature remains lit. 
Notre Dame athletics extend far beyond the football field. So, what is to come of them if, or perhaps more accurately when, the Big East conference falls apart? After recent de­partures by Pittsburgh and Syracuse, rumors circulated of 
the Big East recruiting Navy and Army to its 

ranks. To date, these appear to have been unfounded. 
On Thursday, another member of the Big East left for greener pastures, without ever competing in the Big East. TCU had signed on to begin play in football next season, but has now agreed to void that contract with a 
$5 million fee and instead become the 10th team in the Big 12. 
Only six remaining Big East schools field Division I foot­ball teams. The Big 12 reportedly is considering one of those, Louisville, as a replacement if Missouri were to de­part the Big 12. 
At that point, football may be removed from the Big East repertoire. Football is without a doubt, even in the Big East, the bread-winner. Without it, the Big East would not likely survive for long, no matter how strong its basketball tradi­tion may be. 
If this worst-case scenario were to come to be, all of Notre Dame’s olympic sports would be without a home. It is un­likely any standing conference would take them without also wanting Notre Dame to join in hockey and football. The Big Ten specifically would insist upon both. 
This week’s hockey announcements show Notre Dame will not yield to these demands. They also show Notre Dame may not have to. If the hockey program can find such a lu­crative situation, Swarbrick will need to do so for the other sports as well. 
The precedent has been set. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
WEEKLY POLL RESULTS 
“The only way to get rid of a temptation is to yield to it.” 
Oscar Wilde Irish dramatist, novelist and poet 




Friday, October 7, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 
Changing the drinking age? 
Alcohol has developed quite the legend amongst the human race as a social lubricant, an amnesia pre­scription, an aphrodisiac, a vomit inducer, a bravery potion, an anger enhancer and many other unique traits that brings smiles to people’s faces, aches to their heads or sick feelings to their stomachs. It brings about happiness and sadness in those that partake and those that are around partak­ers. Because of the negative aspects, rules have been developed to curb excessive consump­tion. 
In most of the world you are con­sidered an adult at 18-years-old. You have finished or will finish school (hopefully) and can voluntarily pursue higher education or go out into the work force. America does it slightly differently. You get three more years of a trial period at being an adult. You can get locked up like an adult, vote like an adult, smoke like an adult, get drafted like an adult, pay taxes like an adult. But don’t drink like an adult, don’t buy a handgun like an adult, don’t rent a car like an adult. Twenty-one seems like such an arbitrary number. Even 20 would be much more reasonable to our base-10 minds. It is stupid to have this sub­class distinction and it really makes young people in this three year limbo vulnerable to a lot of flak. 


I totally understand the root cause of why many people want to suppress drinking culture. It makes people sloppy and disgusting. It breaks apart families and encourages poor deci­sions. But mainly it kills. Alcohol poisoning is not a joke, nor is depres­sion that could lead to suicide, nor is drunken anger that leads to as­sault and murder. The biggest strike against intoxication is drunk driving. Innocent people die every year be­cause some moron decides to drive home after getting plastered. People suffer life changing injuries and paralysis after getting T-boned by a drunk driver. This is unfortunate and all too common in our society and we should not have to deal with it, but we also don’t need to punish those who drink responsibly. 
My proposal is a two sided ap­proach. We should lower the drinking age to 18. I think this would make colleges safer because students will not be drinking for the first time. A 
Greengate like a champion today 
As we all anxiously await another home game Saturday, when the Irish will clearly reign victorious over the Falcons, I wanted to offer you all a few tips to get you a bit more eco-conscious. I know what you are thinking, “I will Anna Gorman not let you touch my game day.” The GreenMan But seriously, modifying your pregame habits just a bit can make a huge impact. 
The GreenMan’s Top Greengating Tips: 
1.
 Recycle — Bottles, cans, plastic, pa­per, cardboard, etc. can all be recycled on campus. Notre Dame has an exten­sive game day recycling program set up, where everything you throw in the bags that are provided gets weighed and tracked. At the Michigan State game two weeks ago, the campus recycled 21.55 tons, our second highest total in his­tory. However, our waste generation still has room for improvement; for 2010’s EPA Game Day Recycling Challenge, our number for per capita waste generation was embarrassing. Our 1.188 pounds per person was more than double that of the University of Michigan. Ouch. Grab a blue bag on Saturday and try to cut down on waste! 

2.
 Choosing the grill — Propane grills are the most eco-friendly for tailgating purposes, especially if you buy an energy efficient model. Propane burns cleaner than wood or charcoal, and it leaves less waste. If you do opt for a charcoal model because you can’t part with the flavor, use all natural briquettes made from environmentally friendly/ renewable sources. 

3.
 Eating seasonal — Try to use in-season produce as much as possible for your different vegetable and fruit selec­tions. In early October, apples, broccoli, cauliflower, eggplant, okra and tomatoes are considered in season in Indiana. You can also try going meatless! Try porta­bella burgers as a substitute (or at least a nice addition). 

4.
 Organic beer — For those of you over 21, try replacing your normal brew 



with a more environmentally friendly option. While I’m sure some of you are thinking, “no way,” for others, it’s worth a shot. Nearly 70 percent of the pollution in our rivers and streams comes from conventional farming methods. Switch­ing to organic beer which doesn’t con­tain pesticides and genetically modified organisms will help reduce this number. Most natural food stores carry organic beers, and even big names like Anheus­er-Busch are breaking into the market. Who knows, bring along this brew and you might make yourself a new friend. 
5. Plates and utensils — For many of you, tailgating lasts hours. Many hours mean multiple rounds of food. Often you are uncomfortably left carrying around a plate smeared with some type of sauce and other food debris in-between rounds. Here comes the pivotal moment: Throw it away or save it for the third helping of guac? At first, it’s really easy to hang on to, but then after 15, 30 or 45 minutes, you feel annoyed and awkward. You glance around and walk over to the trash, then surreptitiously throw your stuff away. Over the course of the day you end up using two or three plates, and the garbage piles up. 
I still encourage you to reuse your plates (reusable dishware in general is preferable), but, if this is too much of a hassle, there are many earth-friendlier options you can try out. Many brands manufacture products with a more lightweight plastic, and there are also various compostable options available. While these products can be a bit pricier, I think they’re worth it. 
Try out these tips this weekend. Start one at a time. Try one, if it just doesn’t work out, move on to the next. Until next time, go green, go Irish. 
Email your predicaments to The GreenMan at askthegreenman@gmail. com and let him answer you with a sus­tainable twist. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
lower drinking age will also ease the attraction and the frustration of un­derage drinking. Everyone knows that when you turn the legal age, drinking doesn’t have quite the same thrill as it did when you were underage. Many people become more responsible with age. However, that is with our current Puritan standards and with wider acceptance people may become more comfortable and less responsible. It is hard to see how the lower drink­ing age would affect high-schoolers. Underage drinking in high school is already pretty prevalent, but may sky­rocket if peers can legally purchase. Britain, where the drinking age is 18, is currently having a lot of societal is­sues that are alcohol related. The en­tire country is suffering from national alcoholism to an extent. This is one of the negatives to a lower drinking age and a widely accepted drinking cul­ture. A solution will be to have tough underage consumption laws to protect the minors in our society. 
The age limit is the carrot, but now we need to bring out the stick. Along with lower drinking age we need to implement draconian penalties for drunk driving. Anyone driving while intoxicated will face monumental fines and/or years of jail time. We need to show people that their life will be ruined if they drive drunk. Steeper punishments for public intoxication than just a night in the drunk tank might encourage more reasonable consumption. This hopefully will fun­damentally change people’s behavior and eliminate the worst aspects of intoxication. The alcohol is not the problem. It is the negative side effects (and people being dumb) that we want to discourage. 
Is alcohol a necessary evil? In my humble opinion, I could survive the rest of my life without another drop of alcohol. While that would work for me, others have a strong attachment to these elixirs. We tried temperance as a society before and it just showed that people will bend the rules instead of adapt, so we know it can’t work in a free society. Given this reality and the belief that people should have the freedom to do as they please as long as it does not impinge on the freedom of others, we must at least make the system work the best it can. Elections are not won or lost by the drinking age issue, but maybe one day we will see a shift in the right direction. 
Mark Easley is a senior computer science major. He can be contacted at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Tomb for the unknown child 
I understand and endorse the message, and I appreciate how shock can convincingly present that message. What I cannot grasp is how plastic flags and decaying stick crosses have become fitting tombstones for aborted chil­dren. 
Each year, Notre Dame’s right to life group displays plastic pink and blue flags on South Quad to represent the number of aborted children each day in America and small, white crosses to represent the number of aborted children during the time of a football game. These simple white crosses evoke the image of a graveyard. The message is powerful, but their symbolic graveyard does not honor the beauty of an individual child. 
We construct headstones, tombs and memorials to honor and remember the dead. My grandfather’s headstone in Florida National Cemetery features a simple cross engraved upon white marble. Americans celebrate our lost soldiers at the white marble Tomb of the Unknowns in Arlington National Cemetery. Some of the most famous tombs in the world include the pyramids of Egypt, the Taj Mahal, the Thirteen Tombs of the Ming Dynasty, the Church of the Holy Sepulchre and the Prophet’s Mosque in Medina. Our symbolic headstones for aborted children are popsicle-stick crosses and cheap plastic flags. 
While I appreciate the message and the effort, I suggest that the Notre Dame community ought to construct a more fitting monument. To maintain the shock achieved by making a statistic tangible, I suggest replacing plastic flags and cheap crosses with pink and blue flowers. To honor these children more permanently, I suggest that we create a lasting memorial: our own Tomb for the Unknown Child. 
We must end abortion. However, we must remember that we are not simply ending a policy — we are ending the murder of a child. Let’s respect these children with more than stick crosses and plastic flags. 
Elizabeth Chaten 
senior 
Badin Hall 
Oct. 6 

PC cheers! 
As a soon-to-be Double Domer who was born at the Air Force Academy, I would like to remind everyone not to yell “SUCK IT AIR FORCE!” during the game Saturday. Instead, let’s yell something totally PC that our administra­tion will approve of, such as “Suck it Terrorists!” or “Suck it World Hunger!” or “Suck it Greenhouse Gases!” Doing so will fit in much more appropriately with the opponent-friendly game day atmosphere we work hard to uphold inside our welcoming, calm and comforting stadium. 
Daniel Collins 
law student Alumni Hall Oct. 6 



Halftime shows 
No football game would be complete without a halftime show, and the Band of the Fighting Irish knows how to wow the stadium with their fun, melodic and intricate halftime performances. The band plays everything from classic rock to Lady Gaga and incorporates dancing and movement so well, it can even form the perfect shape of the United States of America. 

OBSERVER FILE PHOTO 


PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
OBSERVER FILE PHOTO 

Gameday performance at Bond Hall 
Each Saturday of a home foot­ball game, the band merges on the steps of Bond Hall 90 min­utes before kickoff to play Notre Dame’s own cheers, as well as songs from their halftime shows. The performance is the perfect way to start a football game, getting the masses who watch into the spirit of the day. Fans can then follow the band as they march from Bond Hall to Notre Dame Stadium. 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Scene Editor 

The Band of the Fighting Irish is the nation’s oldest col­lege band, as the announcer proudly proclaims at every home football game. The band has not missed a home foot­ball game since it performed at the first Notre Dame vs. Michigan game in 1887 and continues to rouse the crowd of Irish supporters to this day. Here, Scene provides a closer look at the many Notre Dame Marching Band traditions. 





MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 


Friday, October 7, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 13 




Drummers’ Circle 
Each Friday night before home football games, the Notre Dame drumline heads out to Main Building at midnight to play a drums-only set of both Irish cheers and popular new songs. The show highlights the many members of drumline, who play everything from snares to symbols and always draws a big crowd, rain or shine. 



PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Playing from the sidelines 
The Notre Dame Band is an important component of every game. Their many songs and chants lead the fans as they cheer on the Fighting Irish. They even keep us entertained during timeouts and other breaks in the game. 



MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 
NBA needs LeBron to save failing image 
The NBA does not come anywhere close to match­ing the popularity and the fandom of the NFL. 
It cannot compete with the mys­tique or the tradi­tions of the MLB. 
But one thing the NBA and the sport of bas­ketball in general have is excite­ment — excitement that will likely be missing this season. 
The saddest part of the NBA lockout, which looks like it will cancel the en­tire 2011-12 season, is that the NBA was just finally bringing the excite-up his jersey, hopped back on the bandwagon when Chicago faced Miami in the Eastern Conference finals. 

And one cannot forget the hero worship draped on Dirk Nowitzki when the Mavericks were given the task of knocking off everybody’s new favorite evil empire. Nowitzki be­came everyone’s favorite player overnight, simply because he was the only person who could keep the evil Heat from winning a championship. 
James is so universally hated because he is so good at providing what the NBA thrives on — ex­citement. He is bigger, faster and stronger than most of the players he faces on a nightly basis, and is the most complete 
combina­
tion of all 


ment back. James is so universally three in the Not since hated because he is history of Michael so good at providing basketball. 
Jordan No player 
what the NBA thrives 
retired is more 
on — excitement. 
after the 1997-98 season had so many people cared about and watched the NBA. 
The quality of basketball was starting to improve again. Defense played an important role in games, and not just playoff games. But one factor caused the increased interest in the NBA more than any other 
— LeBron James. 
Quite possibly the most polarizing figure in sports today, James’ decision to leave Cleveland and join up with his partner in crime Dwyane Wade in Miami caused one of the one of the most outrageous and longest-lasting uproars in recent sports memory. 
But love him or hate him, James causes people to watch games and to care about the NBA again. 
Fans from far and wide came out of the woodwork when the team they only marginally supported before played against the Heat. It gave them a reason to cheer against this sup­posed menace to society and for all that is good in the world. 
Even Bulls fans, who had not watched an entire NBA game since Jordan hung exciting to 
watch, and 
in the case 
of the NBA Finals, to watch fail. 
Many have claimed that James’ arrogance and greed are signs of all that is wrong in sports. This could not be further from the truth. His greed is blown out of proportion, and his arrogance is what makes him so polarizing 
— so easy to love for some and so easy to hate for most. 
The true sign of all that is wrong in sports is that the NBA, which had its most successful season in more than a decade in terms of excitement and popularity, will not hold any games this season. Just when the NBA was finally starting to become truly relevant again, it hit a wall and might never recover. 
Stop cursing players like James. Without them, the NBA has no chance of ever bouncing back. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu             
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
MLB 

White Sox hire Robin Ventura 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Robin Ventura was easing his way back into baseball with the Chicago White Sox. Hired as an adviser to player development director Buddy Bell in June, it afforded him just the right mix of work and time with his family. 
When Ozzie Guillen asked out of his contract near the end of the season and eventu­ally ended up in Florida, Ven­tura was as surprised as any­one. 
And when general manager Ken Williams and Bell talked to him and broached the pos­sibility of succeeding Guillen, he was initially taken aback. 
He mulled it over, discussed it with his wife and after a face-to-face meeting with Wil­liams decided it was the right move, facing a challenge in a place where he was comfort­able and well-liked for a de­cade. An offer, it turned out, he couldn’t and didn’t refuse. 
“Not having managed be­fore, I did have apprehension,” the former White Sox star third baseman said in a con­ference call Thursday. “(Wil­liams) never tried to talk me into it. It was more of what was going to be there and be available. Ultimately it was going to be my decision.” 
Ventura, known for his slick fielding, clutch hitting and left-handed power, has a good sense of humor and a well-rounded perspective on the game. 
Fiery as Guillen? Nope. But he’s had his moments, too. 
Who can forget the time he charged the mound after No­lan Ryan plunked him with a pitch in 1993? Once there, Ryan applied a quick head­lock and administered several punches before players from both teams reached the con­frontation. 
And Ventura was tough as a player, too, surviving a gro­tesque injury in 1997 when he fractured and dislocated an­kle in a spring training slide. 
Now he’s the 39th White Sox manager overall, a list that in­cludes 17 who played for the team. 
“I think there is a challenge there, getting back into the game,” he said. 
“I do have a passion for it. I do have a passion for this team and this city. I’m not one to really back away from a lot of things. ... The passion is there to do it, I was asked to do it. I’m honored.” 
Guillen was released from his contract with one year re­maining after eight seasons with the White Sox and imme­diately was hired by the Flor­ida Marlins as their manager. 
“That whole thing surprised me as much as anybody. I fig­ured he would be managing here a long time,” Ventura said of Guillen, his friend and former teammate. 
The 44-year-old Ventura played for a host of managers who could influence his style 
— Jeff Torborg, Gene Lamont, Jerry Manuel, Bobby Valen­tine, Joe Torre and Jim Tracy. 
“I run the gamut on differ­ent styles and smart baseball men and just different ways to communicate and get guys to play,” he said. 
What kind of manger will he be? Yet to be determined. He said he wants players who care and are accountable. 
Ventura was a first-round draft pick of the White Sox out of Oklahoma State in 1988 and spent the first 10 seasons of his 16-year career with Chi­cago. 
After leaving the White Sox, Ventura also played for the New York Mets, New York Yan­kees and Los Angeles Dodgers. He was six-time Gold Glove winner and an All-Star in 1992 and 2002. 
Ventura’s selection came as a big surprise. Most specula­tion had the White Sox’s top candidates as either Tampa Rays coach Dave Martinez or Cleveland Indians bench coach Sandy Alomar Jr. Both are former White Sox players. 
But Ventura was always on Williams’ radar. 
“Needless to say he was a little surprised and little ap­prehensive,” Williams said. “We had to explain to him ex­actly what the support system would be and exactly what are expectations were at the start. I was very clear with him that I do not expect him to be Tony La Russa on day one. In our estimation the fit is such that all of that will come together and we will ultimately be bet­ter off down the line that we could be if — in my opinion — we went in a different direc­tion.” 
Pitching coach Don Cooper and first base coach Harold Baines were already re-signed to multiyear contract exten­sions before the season ended. Hitting coach Greg Walker is not returning. Other staff ad­ditions will be announced by Tuesday when Ventura will have his first news conference at U.S. Cellular Field 
Ventura batted hit .267 with 294 home runs and 1,182 RBIs over his career. His 18 career grand slams are tied for fifth in major league history. 
He appeared in 1,254 games over 10 seasons with the White Sox, hitting .274 with 171 home runs and 741 RBI. He ranks among the White Sox career leaders in grand slams, walks, homers, RBIs, extra-base hits and runs scored. 
Ventura led Oklahoma State to the College World Series and still holds the Division I record with a 58-game hitting streak. 
Guillen left after he couldn’t get a contract extension from owner Jerry Reinsdorf. His re­lationship with Williams had become fractured over the last two seasons. 
Now another White Sox player is back to try and get the team into another World Series. Guillen led them to the title in 2005, ending an 88­year drought. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The CLASSIFIEDS Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
HOME FOR RENT FOOTBALL AND FOR RENT NOTICES TICKETS WANTED PERSONAL GRADUATION WEEKENDS. Large 4BR home 1 mile north of Warren Golfcourse. Sleeps 8 to 10. Ideal Cheap 2 room studio $440 Email for family or small groups. Great Transportation to airport USC GAs desperately needed. Cartoonist Wanted UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t DaveMichiganTEKK@gmail.com value. Call 574-286-0081 or email go it alone. Notre Dame has many incl util bpblauvelt@gmail.com 50-75 cartoons needed over next 6 resources in place to assist you. $7 per person in groups. weeks by Prof. If you or someone you love needs One bedroom unit w/ fullsize Large 4BR $840. Top $$ confidential support or assistance, fridge, oven, etc. (can sleep 4) 10 mo lease, $10 each.please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 available for rent graduation week 3 mi S of SMC. Mark 574-360-6480 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more 05/13 - 05/20/2012. Unit is located call Dave 574-286-1384  Email weber.1@nd.edu information, visit ND’s website at: 5 minutes from ND at the Varsity 574-277-1659 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu Club. Contact 847-715-9699.  

MLB 

Tigers eliminate Yankees 3-2 in Game 5 thriller 
Associated Press time since the 1926 World Series the board,” Kelly said. “It’s big to 
against St. Louis, Detroit won an get out in front early here.” 
NEW YORK — The Detroit Tigers all-or-nothing postseason game for Young, the first Tigers player survived a tense trip back to Bronx, the first time since beating the Car-with three homers in a single with Jose Valverde and the bullpen dinals in Game 7 of the 1968 World postseason series, left in the sev­holding on time and time again Series. enth because of a mild left oblique to beat the New York Yankees 3-2 With the Tigers vying for their strain and will be re-evaluated Thursday night to win the deciding first World Series title since 1984, Friday. Game 5 of their AL playoff series. ace Justin Verlanderwill start the “On the last swing I felt a little 
Don Kelly and Delmon Young hit ALCS opener at Texas on Saturday tweak,” Young said. “I went out consecutive home runs in the first night against the Rangers’ C.J. Wil-there but wasn’t able to finish off inning, then Doug Fister and the son. This will be Detroit’s first trip my throws. So there’s no point Tigers spent the rest of a thrilling to the ALCS since 2006. playing superhero right now.” game trying to preserve their lead. Before a new Yankee Stadium After pitching scoreless ball into 
They did — barely — and ad-record crowd of 50,960, New York the ninth inning in winning the re­vanced to the AL championship se-had its chances, but the Yankees sumption of the opener, Nova (1-1) ries against Texas. went 2 for 9 with runners in scor-lasted just 31 pitches and six outs, 
“It was a gutsy win, especially ing position and 0 for 4 with the with the Yankees saying he came with all the opportunities they bases loaded, and they stranded 10 out due to tightness in his right had,” Kelly said. runners. forearm. 
Joaquin Benoit followed Max While the Yankees led the AL “We didn’t like the way the ball Scherzer in the seventh and walked with 97 wins during the regular was coming out of his hand. I think Mark Teixeira with the bases load-season, the early exit in the first it was directly related to that,” ed, pulling the Yankees within a round and second straight season Yankees manager Joe Girardi said. run. Benoit struck out Nick Swisher without a World Series title will set “Some of his fastballs were cutting, That was followed by the odd Posada struck out, then got Cano with a 95 mph fastball to keep the off a restless offseason search for and we never saw that. So I had to sight of the 290-pound CC Sabathia to pop out with two on in the third. lead. more starting pitching and offense. make a change.” jogging in from the Yankees’ bull-The Yankees loaded the bases with 
Then in the eighth, Brett Gard-Rodriguez was 0 for 4 with three Phil Hughes started warming up pen in midgame with his size 15 one out in the fourth on a walk and ner singled with two outs before strikeouts and hit .118 in the series after Nova’s sixth batter, Magglio spikes and size 42 baseball pants. two singles, but Fister retired Rus-Derek Jeter flied out to Kelly just in (2 for 18) and Teixeira batted .167 Ordonez, doubled leading off the All 42 of his previous professional sell Martin and Gardner on infield front of the right-field wall. (3 for 18). Robinson Cano, whose second. Ordonez advanced on Alex appearances had been starts, and popups. 
Valverde finished with the only fifth-inning solo homer started the Avila’s groundout, but Nova worked he threw 106 pitches Monday night After Cano’s ninth RBI of the 1-2-3 inning for Detroit after the comeback attempt, was the Yan-out of trouble when Jhonny Peralta without a decision in Game 3. series, the Yankees loaded the first, getting his second save of the kees’ primary offense with nine hit a one-hopper to third baseman Detroit immediately tacked on a bases with one out for the second series and remaining perfect in 51 RBIs. Alex Rodriguez with the infield in run for a 3-0 lead. Former Yankee time. Jeter beat a one-out single to chances this year. After Valverde Kelly and Young homered on and Ramon Santiago struck out. Austin Jackson led off the fifth with shortstop in the seventh, bringing struck out Alex Rodriguez to end the sixth and seventh pitches from When Hughes replaced Nova a broken-bat double to left. After a on Benoit. After umpires made the it, the Tigers’ closer crouched and Ivan Nova, the Game 1 winner who to start the third, Miguel Cabrera pair of strikeouts, Cabrera was reliever remove a bandage from pumped both arms as his team-led rookies with 16 wins during the held up his hands, as if he were intentionally walked and Victor the left side of his face covering an mates ran out to celebrate. regular season and hadn’t loss in saying, “What’s this?” Martinez, Sabathia’s former Cleve-ingrown hair, Granderson lined a 
“The Yankees are so good that I the majors since June 3. It was just the start of the pro-land teammate, hit an RBI single to single to right and Cano hit a two-would be lying if I said it didn’t give The homers were the first back-cession from the Yankees’ bullpen center. Former Tigers star Curtis hopper off the end of his bat to the me a little extra satisfaction to be to-back postseason shots in Tigers’ in right-center to the mound. Granderson bobbled the ball as he third-base side of the mound that able to do it here in the fifth game,” history, and it was the third homer Hughes was pulled after his 21st tried to make a quick pickup. got by Benoit. Tigers manager Jim Leyland said. of the series for Young, who was pitch, a one-out single by Ordonez New York had put increasing Rodriguez swung through a “This will be a game I’ll remember acquired from Minnesota on Aug. in the fourth. Avila, who had been pressure on Fister, who kept es-pitch that appeared to have been for the rest of my life.” 15. Kelly was a surprise starter at 0 for 13 in the series, singled on left-caping trouble as his pitch count inside, which would have run the 
While the Yankees were elimi-third to some. hander Boone Logan’s first pitch. ran up. He stranded a runner on count full, and Teixeira walked on nated in the postseason with a “The crowd’s into it at the begin-Boone lasted just seven pitches and second in the second inning when a 3-1 count before Benoit fanned one-run loss at home for the first ning and it was just good to get on two outs. Swisher grounded out and Jorge Swisher. 


SMC GOLF 
Belles prepare for MIAA Championship 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
The Belles came into the 2011 season with great ex­pectations. Although there have been disappointments along the way, their season can be salvaged with a good performance at this week­end’s MIAA championships. 
Coming off a one-stroke defeat last weekend at the Kalamazoo Jamboree, coach Mark Hamilton said he thinks the team is confident and ready to play good golf when it matters most — with a con­ference championship on the line. 
“Our expectations are to win,” Hamilton said. “We are a few shots down, we re­ally put ourselves behind the eight ball, but I have a feeling we are going to come through and win.” 
Going into this weekend’s tournament, Saint Mary’s is in third place in the MIAA standings. They are eight shots behind Olivet and 23 strokes behind Hope. 
“Last week I saw some good signs, signs of improvement. We just have to finish our rounds. If we do that, then we will be fine,” Hamilton said. 
If the Belles are going to come home with the confer­ence championship, they are going to need strong performances from seniors Christine Brown and Nata­lie Matuszak, who have led the team in scoring this year. 
“There is supposed to be good weather this weekend, so good ball strikers should have an advantage. Our team is full of those kinds of players, so I am confident and really like our chanc­es,” Hamilton said. 
Hamilton also said the team will feel comfortable at Bedford Valley Golf Club because many of the players have played the course be­fore. The course does not of­fer any surprises and is very similar to other courses they play during their MIAA schedule. 
“Our players should not have a problem with the course. Many have played it before and it is like a lot of courses we have been play­ing all year,” he said. 
The MIAA Championship is a two-day tournament be­ginning at 1 p.m. Friday and continuing at 9 a.m. Satur­day at Bedford Valley Golf Club in Augusta, Mich. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

Saint Mary’s falls to Hope 2-0 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
One statistic can never tell the complete story of a game, but sometimes it more than explains the final outcome. Thursday night’s game against Hope was one of those times for the Belles. 
While the Belles took five shots during the contest, Hope took 22. Two of those 22 shots slipped into the goal and gave Hope the 2-0 victory, obscuring an impressive first half from the Belles and the six-save performance from freshman goalkeeper Chanler Rosenbaum. 

Saint Mary’s (7-5, 3-5 MIAA) kept the score sheet clean through the first half and for the first 15 minutes of the sec­ond. 
“We played spectacularly in the first half and almost had a goal — one of their players cleared it off the line,” Belles coach Michael Joyce said. 
But despite the Belles’ best efforts, the athletic Flying Dutch (8-3, 6-2) blew through Saint Mary’s defense in the 64th minute when Hope sophomore midfielder Cara Johnson head­ed the ball into the net on an assist from freshman forward Nora Kirk. The goal was John­son’s fourth of the season. 
“Hope was very good and very fast all over the field,” Joyce said. “In the second half they started to get more of the play and eventually scored on a cross,” 

Eighteen minutes later, the Flying Dutch put the game away with a goal from sophomore midfielder Courtney Laux, her first of the season. 
“We made a mistake defen­sively for their second goal that we really couldn’t recov­er from,” Joyce said. “We will have to try and slow them down next time around.” 
The win placed Hope in third place in the MIAA standings with 18 points and Saint Mary’s in sixth place with nine. Both trail league-leading Adrian. 
The Belles will have the op­portunity for a rematch Nov. 1, when the Flying Dutch visit Saint Mary’s for the last game of the regular season. 
But before the Belles worry about that, they have to pay a visit to Olivet (2-10, 2-6) Satur­day. The Belles beat the Comets handily by a score of 3-0 in their conference season opener Sept. 14, but Olivet has won twice in eight days, defeating Albion 1-0 on Sept. 28 and Trine by a score of 2-1 Thursday night. 
“Olivet has won a couple of games recently, so they are having some success,” Joyce said. “They’ll be tough at home and feeling confident.” 
The Belles will try to rebound Saturday when they travel to Olivet for a noon kickoff. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish hope to finish strong against conference foes 


“We talk a lot in practice about pushing through,” Dealy said. “We need to fin­ish strong. Sometimes we battle throughout the 20th point only to let off the gas.” 
The Irish take on the Pan­thers at 2 p.m. Saturday in Pittsburgh and West Virgin­ia (3-12, 1-3) at 1 p.m. Sun­day in Morgantown, W. Va. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Last weekend, the Irish jumped out with leads against Cincinnati and Lou­isville only to relinquish them later. The goal this week when the Irish travel to away contests at Pitts­burgh and West Virginia is to finish the games strong. 
“We played really well in the Cincinnati game,” se­nior Kristen Dealy said. “We outplayed them statistically in almost every single cat­egory and had them at game point. Against Louisville, we started out crushing them, and we could have won.” 
Both teams are undefeat­ed in the Big East and tied for the conference lead. Dealy said the way the Irish played against them is in­dicative of the team’s poten­tial. 

“We obviously need to win games,” Dealy said. “But es­pecially with a young team, it’s a learning process.” 
Irish coach Debbie Brown said that a week of focused practiced will help the Irish (10-6, 1-3 Big East) this weekend. 
“We worked a lot in prac­tice this week on specific situations like receiving short serves,” Brown said. “We know Pitt and West Vir­ginia do some good things, but we’re feeling good about our preparation.” 
Pittsburgh (12-6, 2-2) boasts two of the confer­ence leaders in kills in sophomore Monica Wignot and senior Kiesha Leggs, a challenge that the Irish have prepared for. 
“Against their hitters, it’s going to be very impor­tant to get good blocking,” Dealy said. “And then we need to turn that defense into points. Sometimes we play very good defense but struggle in getting points out of it.” 
The challenge of execut­ing, especially on the road, is not lost on Dealy. 
“Pitt always gets pumped to play us,” Dealy said. “It’s a rivalry game I guess, so we have to be ready for that atmosphere. We have to match their competitive­ness. We need to be on the top of our game.” 
Tied for ninth in the Big East after facing teams with a combined 13-3 re­cord against Big East com­petition, the Irish have an opportunity to make up ground this weekend. 


ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

ND prepares to face nation’s top schools 
By MATT UNGER of play. Senior captain Becca Huffer Sports Writer shot even for the tournament’s final round while freshman Kelli Oride’s 
Notre Dame will get a strong in-finished at +1. dication of where it stands amongst Huffer uncharacteristically strug­the nation’s elite teams at the Tar gled in her first two rounds of the Heel Invitational this weekend. tournament, shooting 6-over and 
The tournament — arguably 9-over, respectively. Huffer, who the most competitive one on Notre earned All-Big East honors in each Dame’s schedule — features 13 of her three seasons with the team, teams ranked in the top-25 in the was hampered by three-putts, but most recent Golf World Coaches’ rebounded for a strong final round. Poll, including No. 3 LSU, No. 4 Ala-Meanwhile, Oride tied for 32nd in bama and No. 5 North Carolina. the Golfweek Conference Challenge 
Despite the top-tier competition, at +12 for the best finish by an Irish Irish coach Susan Holt said she is golfer. Oride and fellow freshman optimistic about her team’s ability to Ashley Armstrong both made their compete in the tournament. Irish debuts at the Golfweek Confer­
“[The Invitational] presents a ence Challenge. tremendous opportunity for our For the Irish to improve this program to improve in the national weekend, Holt said they need to take rankings,” Holt said. better advantage of birdie opportu-
The course plays at par 72 and nities. boasts a 6,285-yard layout. Coach “Our players need to manage their Holt said the course’s greens and game to the best of their abilities fairways are larger than normal. and eliminate three-putts, which re­
“While off the tee, the course is ally hurt us in the last tournament,” wide open. It can be more challeng-Holt said. ing for players to stay focused on Following the Tar Heel Invitation-their targets,” Holt said. al, the Irish will compete at the Indi-
The Irish, unranked in the lat-ana University Fall Invitational from est poll, look to improve upon October 17 to 18 in Carmel, Indiana. their ninth place finish in the mid-The 54-hole tournament starts September Golfweek Conference Friday morning and concludes Sun-Challenge. Although this 18-team day at the UNC Finley Golf Course. tournament only featured three ranked squads, two encouraging Contact Matt Unger at signs emerged from the final round munger3@nd.edu 
Siegfried 
continued from page 21 
year. 
“We are just trying to get better every game and this is no excep­tion,” Aversa said. “We use last year’s season as inspiration for ev­ery game we play this year.” 
Meanwhile, Morrissey is look­ing to get its first win this year. The Manor came up short against Duncan last week. Morrissey ju­nior captain Alex Oloriz said his team would be motivated to get a win. 
“I expect my team to play hard for 48 minutes,” Oloriz said. “I expect our opponent will do the same.” 
As one of the lowest scoring teams in interhall this year, Mor­rissey will look to improve its of­fense against Duncan. Oloriz ex­pects the game to be physical and said it will be determined by the offensive line. 
“Our big boys up front will make the difference,” Oloriz said. 
Siegfried and Morrissey square off at 2 p.m. at Riehle Fields with each hoping to increase its playoff chances. 
Contact Andrew Cardoza at acardoza@nd.edu 
Dillon vs. Keough 
By JAMES SOUTHARD 
Sports Writer 
Dillon and Keough square off Sunday in a contest that will de­termine their paths for the post­season. 
Dillon (2-1) is coming off a 17-0 shutout win against Stanford. Sophomore quarterback Kevin Fink came out hot with two touch­downs to lead the team. 
Junior captain Will Salvi said Dillon’s loss to Keenan two weeks ago motivated the team against Stanford. 
“Last week, we had a chip on our shoulder because of the loss [to Keenan],” junior captain Will Salvi said. “That loss was my first of the regular season in my time here [at Notre Dame].” 
The Big Red is looking to strengthen their playoff resumé after forcing two quick turnovers and gaining 195 total offensive yards last week. 
“The only mentality we can have coming into this game is the knowledge that if we win, we should make the playoffs,” Salvi said. “If we don’t, we need to be lucky to get in.” 
Keough (0-2) had a bye last week.  The team only scored six points in its first two games.  De­spite the team’s record, the Kan­garoos have reason for optimism following a close loss to Stanford, junior captain Robert Toole said. 
“It’s really just problems with execution,” Toole said.  “We’re hop­ing the offense gets on track and takes pressure off the defense.” 
Toole said the defense is the team’s strength, holding Keenan to 100 yards and allowing just one score against Stanford. 
“The defense has made a big im­pact in each game,” Toole said. 
However, the offense’s nine turnovers have stifled any oppor­tunity for points. 
Dillon and Keough will square off this Sunday at 3 p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
Contact James Southard at jsouthar@nd.edu 
O’Neill vs. Stanford 
By ERNST CLEOFE 
Sports Writer 
With the playoffs approaching, O’Neill and Stanford will meet Sunday in a game that could af­fect both of their post-season prospects. 
Stanford (1-1) is coming off a tough 17-0 loss to Dillon. Stanford junior captain Paul Babiak said that after a game lost through mistakes, the Griffins hope to make changes. 
“There were a couple of adjust­ments we could’ve made during halftime,” Babiak said. “We need to be able to do that next week.” 
With an even record, the team will most likely need a win to earn a playoff bid. The playoff push and a heated rivalry make this game especially important. 
“Two years ago, there was a brawl during our game with them, and since then things have gotten a little feisty,” Babiak said. “But we’re going to go in confi­dent.” 
O’Neill (0-2) has not had a great start to the season, including last week’s 35-14 loss to undefeated Keenan. 
“So far we’ve been better than what has happened on the field,” O’Neill junior captain Alex Brolick said. “We’re just not executing.” 
The playoffs appear out of reach for O’Neill, but the Mob will still have a chance to play spoiler. 
“Last week, we played better on offense and we want to build off of that,” Brolick said. “Our offensive line did a really good job and we want to use that to improve our running game and give our quar­terback time.” 
Stanford and O’Neill meet this Sunday at 3 p.m. in a new chapter of a recent rivalry. 
Contact Ernst Cleofe at ecleofe@nd.edu 


Doubles 
continued from page 24 

ing and Mathews have been eliminated from the indi­vidual play, they will play in the doubles bracket Fri­day against a doubles pair from Tennessee. The Irish had a bye in the first round, but Tennessee has already played one match, defeating UCLA’s sophomore Courtney Dolehide and junior Pamela Montez. 
“Since it’s a pro set tomor­row it is important for us to come out strong from the beginning of the match,” Mathews said. “We are look­ing for a high percentage of first serves as well as ag­gressive play at the net.” 
This match will mark the first time this season that the duo will play together in a competition. 
“We’re just looking for­ward to the match and trying to come out strong,” Frilling 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles prepare to face Kalamazoo 

said. nessee’s sophomore Brynn 
The two teammates are the Boren and freshman Sarah only members of the Irish Toti in the second round of team who qualified for the the doubles play. tournament. 
Frilling and Mathews are Contact Katie Heit at in action Friday against Ten-kheit@nd.edu 
Observer Staff Report 

After more than a week off, the Belles are set to take on Kalamazoo on Fri­day in an attempt to grab a winning conference season. 
The Belles (6-7, 4-4) are looking to have a winning conference record for the first time this season. The Hornets, (5-13, 4-4) who will also be looking to secure a winning conference record, have played the Belles once before this season on Sept. 6 in their conference-opening 3-1 win.
 In that match, the Belles led in the first set 15-9 be­fore the Hornets went on a run to steal the set. The Hornets also took control in the second and the fourth sets to seal the victory. 
Saint Mary’s will depend on the power of junior mid­dle hitter Allison Zandar­ski, who has been leading her team in hits and kills. Other key players for the Belles include senior libero and captain Meghann Rose, who recently moved into fourth place in total career digs in Saint Mary’s volley­ball history with 1,436 ca­reer digs. 
Another important player for the Belles this season has been freshman outside hitter Kati Schneider, who had eight kills and 13 digs in the Sept. 28 win over Al­bion. 
The Belles take on the Hornets Friday at 7 p.m. at home. 



Women’s 
continued from page 20 
Ryan vs. Lewis 
By JONATHAN WARREN 
Sports Writer 
Looking to improve on the best season in the dorm’s short histo­ry, Ryan hopes stay undefeated against Lewis on Sunday. 
Despite four straight victo­ries, senior running back and captain Brianna Curtis said the Wildcats (4-0) continue to look for areas to improve. 
“We’re going to prepare the same way we do for every game,” Curtis said. “We’re trying to im­prove after each game, and we want to really try to improve on special teams this week.” 
Lewis junior quarterback Connaught Blood will test the Ryan defense. 
“I’ve heard their quarterback is really good. We’re going to have to watch out for her and try to shut her down,” Curtis said. 
Lewis (2-2) is coming off a blowout 25-6 loss to Lyons and needs a win Sunday to stay in the playoff picture. Senior cap­tain Margaret DeBot said she is confident Lewis will perform well. 
“We tend to play really well against good teams, so I think we’re going to have a good showing against Ryan,” senior captain Margaret DeBot said. “I think we are just psyched going into the game.” 
The Chicks are working in practice to add new wrinkles to their game, DeBot said. 
“Our offense is adding a few more plays, and we’re working on getting a little more con­sistency coming into this next game,” DeBot said. 
The Chicks will face the un­defeated Wildcats Sunday at 6 p.m. 
Contact Jonathan Warren at jwarren3@nd.edu 
Breen-Phillips vs. Pasquerilla West 
By MEGHAN RODER 
Sports Writer 
Hoping to add to its achievements, Breen-Phillips will look to tack on a win Sunday to show off their defen­sive improvements against Pasque­rilla West. 
“We do not take ourselves too se­riously and we have so much fun at practice,” senior captain Maria Lynch said. “Yes, we have that com­petitive fire, but we also are not fazed by adversity. 
Although the Babes are excited, they are still taking the game against the Purple Weasels (2-1) seriously. Sophomore Molly Toner has filled in at quarterback and helped the team take major strides. 
“It takes a lot of guts to play a posi­tion outside of your comfort zone, es­pecially when you’re so good at other positions like Molly is,” Lynch said. “ 
Meanwhile, Pasquerilla West is working on mixing up their options and being ready to play from the first snap, senior captain Alison Lindeen said. 
“Every game is the same no matter who we are playing,” Lindeen said. “We play our game and make game-time adjustments if necessary.” 
The two teams face off Sunday at 7 
p.m. at LaBar Practice Complex. 
Contact Meghan Roder at mroder01@saintmarys.edu 
Howard vs. Pangborn 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
Howard and Pangborn will meet in an intense matchup, as both teams look to prove themselves and capital­ize on scoring possessions. 
The Ducks (1-2) find inspiration in senior wide receiver and captain Jen­ny Gassner after she suffered broken ribs and a punctured lung Tuesday against Pasquerilla West. Gassner’s recovery has gone well and although she can’t play for the rest of the sea­son, she said her team would come through. 
“I was really bummed when it hap­pened and it might have been a blow to the team.” Gassner said. “We will recover from it and we have three strong receivers who will be explo­sive.” 
The Ducks are hopeful that, along with this receiver core, freshman quarterback Lauren Gabel has a great game, Gassner said. 
“[Gabel] is very dynamic. She can run, has a great arm and is very ac­curate,” Gassner said. “She is small so people don’t expect that. She’s an unexpected force.” 
The Phoxes (1-3) are looking to counter the Ducks by starting off with a bang, senior captain Liz Paw­lak said. 
“We’re ready to come out and score first,” Pawlak said. “We don’t want to have to fight back the whole game.”
 The Phoxes hope to prove them­selves by winning with conviction against the Ducks, Pawlak said.. 
“Our record doesn’t show our tal­ent and we’re going to change that,” Pawlak said. 
Pangborn and Howard face each other Sunday at 6 p.m. at the LaBar Practice Complex. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
Cavanaugh vs. Farley 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
With undefeated records on the 
line, Cavanaugh and Farley will square off Sunday in a matchup that could determine the top seed in the playoffs. 
After outscoring its opponents 60-0 in its first three games, Ca­vanaugh (4-0) was tested Tuesday, giving up its first points of the sea­son in a 20-9 win over Pangborn. 
“I think that we just need to keep doing what we’ve been doing all year,” Fahrenbach said. “We might throw in some new defen­sive plays to stop Farley’s offense, and we’ll look to our offense to score a lot of points, as they have done in past games.” 
The Chaos will look for strong production on both sides of the ball Sunday, relying on an explosive of­fense led by senior quarterback Rebecca Cink and a tough defen­sive unit that returned an inter­ception for a touchdown against Pangborn. 
Farley (4-0) also comes into the game fresh off a difficult test, as the Finest allowed their first points of the season in a 19-6 win over Badin on Tuesday. 
“Our offense played really well against Badin, but we need to work on our defensive second­ary coverage, as Badin gave us a challenge,” senior captain Analise Althoff said. 
Offensively, Althoff said her team plans to utilize a diversified attack against the Cavanaugh de­fense. 
“We plan to run different routes, throw in some trick plays and switch some players into positions they wouldn’t normally be in,” Althoff said. 
This clash of undefeated teams will take place at 7 p.m. Sunday at the LaBar Practice Complex. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnett@nd.edu 


WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Purple Weasels extend win streak against Ducks 
Receiver Pawlak sparks Pangborn’s shutout victory over Badin; Pasquerilla East looks for first victory against McGlinn 
By STEPHANIE BANTA 
Sports Writer 
After two years of falling to Howard in the playoffs, the Purple Weasels found their long-awaited victory in an 18-0 shutout win Thursday night. 
“It was good to win,” junior quarterback Kristen Danna said. “After losing to Howard in the playoffs two years in a row, we are proud of our performance to­night.” 
In an offense-dominated game, Danna threw for 78 yards finding connections with junior receiver Alice Yerokun and senior running back Laura Phillip. Most distinct to the Purple Weasels offense were the trick plays that left Howard’s defense scrambling. 
“We like to mix it up on offense,” Danna said. “We like unpredict­ability.” 
Even with Pasquerilla West’s changing offense, Howard (1-3) kept itself composed. 
“It was a rough game,” se­nior captain Jenny Gassner said. “We’ve had a lot of changes on the team and this just wasn’t the game for us to be struggling with new positions.” 
Gassner, who missed the game due to an injury, kept the team’s spirits high on the sidelines as se­nior safety Caroline Walsh made two interceptions. One in the last five minutes gave the team new­found confidence for its final drive. 
Pasquerilla West (3-1) looks to continue their winning streak against Breen-Phillips while How­ard prepares to face Pangborn on Sunday. 
Contact Stephanie Banta at sbanta01@saintmarys.edu 
Pangborn 18, Badin 0 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
Pangborn ran away from its competition and defeated Badin 18-0 Thursday night. 
The Phoxes (2-3) started out slow, but got a huge spark from se­nior receiver and captain Liz Paw­lak, who rushed for 100 yards and two touchdowns. Pangborn struck first on a 25-yard touchdown pass down the middle of the field from junior quarterback Meredith An­gell. 
Pawlak added to the Phoxes’ lead as she received an end-around, fooling the defense for a touchdown. In the second half, an identical play was called for Paw­lak, as she ran 85 yards down the sideline and scored again. 
“It was an exciting play,” Pawlak said. “It went well for us tonight and we’re happy what we’ve prac­ticed is working for us.” 
Badin (1-3) was led by senior quarterback and captain Sylvia Banda, who threw for 55 yards. Banda nearly connected with her receivers on numerous occasions throughout the game, but the of­fense couldn’t find the end zone. 
“We think we can improve on offense,” Banda said. “We need to get more crisp.” 
With both teams gearing up for their playoff pushes, Pangborn will face Howard on Sunday while Badin waits until after fall break to face Breen-Phillips in its final game of the season. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 
Pasquerilla East vs. McGlinn 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
Pasquerilla East has its last chance of the season to get a vic­tory Sunday when it takes on a McGlinn team looking to come out strong after a week off. 
Pasquerilla East (0-4-1) lost Monday to an undefeated Ryan squad, but the Pyros hope they can end their season with a bang against the Shamrocks (3-1), se­nior captain Kristen Mannion said. 
“Everybody is looking for a win,” Mannion said. “We obviously have nothing to lose.” 
Though Pasquerilla East has been able to score in each of their last three games, the Pyros hope greater offensive consistency, im­proved defensive pressure and big plays will lead them to a victory. Mannion also said that controlling the flow of the game would be im­portant to the Pyros’ success. 
“We need to really control the ball and get more points on the board than we have been able to thus far,” she said. 
Meanwhile, McGlinn has not played since Sept. 28 when the Shamrocks won a thriller by scor­ing twice in the last two minutes. While McGlinn spent time practic­ing in its week off, the Shamrocks also spent time recuperating be­fore an important playoff push. 
“We practiced and used the extra time to make some adjust­ments,” senior quarterback and captain Lauren Miller said. “But we also used the time to rest.” 
McGlinn and Pasquerilla East will battle it out Sunday at 5 p.m. at the LaBar Practice Complex. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
Welsh Family vs. Walsh 
By ALLY DARRAGH 
Sports Writer 
Welsh Family and Walsh will 
meet Sunday in a heated matchup that will leave one team closer to making the playoffs. 
The Whirlwind (2-2), coming off a tough loss against Ryan, are ready for their upcoming chal­lenge, said senior captain Char­lotte Seasly. 
“We’re just looking forward to the next game and focusing on our game against Walsh,” Seasly said. “While we took some things and adjustments out of our game against Ryan, we want to put that behind us and move on and pre­pare for our next game.” 
Walsh (0-3-1) is also coming off a tough loss, a 13-12 heartbreaker against Lyons last week. The Wild Women are known for their crafty offensive skills and are looking to sophomore wide receiver Margot Prinster, to keep the offensive pro­duction going. 
Senior guard Meg Kowieski said the Wild Women are working to stay focused throughout the game. 
“It’s been difficult in general with our team, as we have a lot of rookies, but the fact of the matter is we have a lot of talent that we just need to refine,” Kowieski said. 
Both teams will meet at the La-Bar Practice Complex at 6 p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Ally Darragh at adarra01@saintmarys.edu 
see WOMEN’S/page 19 




SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

St. Edwards receiver Joey Ricioli snags a pass during the Gentlemen’s 9-8 victory over Fisher on  Oct. 2. 
Carroll 
continued from page 24 
“Since this is our last game, we’ve sort of put it all out there as far as our playbook is concerned,” Marrero said. “Other teams like Sorin might have seen our [strate­gies], so we might try to change a few things up.” 
Carroll and Sorin face off Sun­day at 1 p.m. at Riehle Fields with playoff spots at stake. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
Alumni vs. Knott 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Alumni and Knott will both look to bounce back from tough losses and push toward the play­offs when they square off Sunday afternoon. 
The Dawgs (2-1) are coming off a tough 13-3 loss to Siegfried, where the offense struggled to produce, sophomore running back Kevin Rolfs said. 
“The offense wasn’t able to get going against Siegfried last week,” Rolfs said. “This kept the defense on the field the whole game, which led them to getting tired. We need to be better offensively this week.” 
Alumni will look to come out fir­ing Sunday and hopes the offense clicks. 
“We need to eliminate turnovers against Knott and get our offense going from the start,” Rolfs said. 
Coming off of a bye week, Knott (1-1) will look to come back strong from a loss two weeks ago to Sieg­fried, in which turnovers plagued the Juggerknotts. 
“We fumbled twice on the 1-yard line against Siegfried and it killed us,” Knott captain and senior running back Dan Shaffer said. “We need to sharpen things up offensively and limit our turn­overs on Sunday.” 
Knott used its bye week to re­gain focus during practice. 
“We’ve focused on details and fundamentals a lot during prac­tice this last week,” Shaffer said. “We’re going to need to be men­tally tough against Alumni if we want to win.” 
Alumni and Knott look to im­prove their playoff chances when they face off Sunday at 1 p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 
Zahm vs. St. Edwards 
By SCOTT FRANO 
Sports Writer 
Zahm and St. Edward’s will meet this Sunday in the “Battle for the Shadow,” so named because of the dorms’ proximity to the Golden Dome. 
St. Edward’s (1-1) got its first win last week in a 9-8 triumph over Fisher. The Gentlemen’s defense was immense against the Green Wave, holding off a late rally to es­cape with the win. Senior captain and linebacker Ryan Kim said he was happy with the defense’s im­proved play. 
“We got some players back who were injured and that helped out a lot,” Kim said. “I think we were more aggressive and worked bet­ter together, communicating bet­ter on what we need to do.” 
Kim said the rivalry would be an important aspect of the game, but said he also knows the results could make or break St. Edward’s season. 
“I always like playing Zahm be­cause there’s a big rivalry there,” Kim said. “But we’re 1-1, so this could determine whether or not we’re eligible for the playoffs, and that’s our goal.” 
Zahm (0-2) is looking to get into the win column for the first time this year. Senior captain Ryan Costello said he saw some bright spots in his team’s 9-0 loss to Car­roll last week. 
“We have a really good defense, and we made some offensive prog­ress,” Costello said. “We feel good about that, and we feel good about what the defense did once again. There are things to build on.” 
Costello said this game has a little more importance to it than other games. 
“There’s always a rivalry with St. Edward’s and last year on our Thursday night game, we came out and beat them and we took a lot of pride in that.” 
Zahm and St. Edward’s will meet in the “Battle for the Shadow” Sunday at 2 p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
Contact Scott Frano at sfrano@nd.edu 
Siegfried vs. Morrissey 
By ANDREW CARDOZA 
Sports Writer 
Morrissey and Siegfried will battle it out Sunday as both teams look to make a late playoff push. 
Siegfried (2-0) comes off an im­pressive victory over Alumni last week and has started the year undefeated. However, they realize Morrissey (0-2) will come seeking its first victory of the year. 
“We expect Morrissey to play fast and hit hard just like they do every year,” Siegfried senior cap­tain John Aversa said. “We’ve got to be sharp on both sides of the ball to stand a chance at winning this week.” 
Siegfried hopes to shore up last week’s defensive miscues and im­prove the offense. Aversa said the Ramblers still feel the pain of los­ing to Dillon in the semifinals last 
see SIEGFRIED/page 18 

nn’s roster consists of players “We don’t approach it a dif­the system, and it’s been fun to 
Freshmen 
come to practice.” 
UConn 

from the United States, Cana-ferent way,” Clark said. “You While Johnson struggled 
da, Jamaica, Finland, Senegal play every game to win it. You continued from page 24 with consistency last year, he 
continued from page 24 and Trinidad. want to win the league. At the played his best in the NCAA 
“We’re very happy with re-end of the day, you have to col-Tynan and Lee’s play last year tournament and led the Irish to 
extended their shutout streak cruiting American players lect wins against good com-may have been surprising for the brink of a title. This year, 
to eight consecutive games. and now, the young American petition. A win on Saturday opponents to deal with, Jack-Johnson expects to play more 
Freshman goalie Andre Blake players can hold their own,” would be a feather in our cap.” son said this year will be totally consistently. 
increased his personal score-Clark said. “Foreign play-Two super-subs lead the different for the young players. “We have a really good team. 
less streak to nearly 771 min-ers are usually a bit older, a Irish. Junior forward Ryan “There’s no more freebies for Obviously that gives me the 
utes. Blake ranks third in the little bit more experienced. Finley has notched a team-them. Everybody knows who confidence to just go out and 
nation in save percentage, It’s a good experience to play high four goals, while senior they are now,” Jackson said. just play my game,” he said. “If 
stopping over 95 percent of against different styles of midfielder Adam Mena follows “They’ll be playing up against I focus … and our team plays 
shots on goal. players.” with three goals and four as-the other team’s top line, top the way we’re capable of, we 
Additionally, UConn has al-Notre Dame will enter the sists. The duo has a combined defensemen. Some teams may can be something special.” 
lowed just two goals all year match after tying Northwest-two starts in the 10 Notre play them differently, more ag-Though the Irish will face a 
long and not one since their ern 1-1 Wednesday night. The Dame games. gressively or shadowing guys. tough environment on the road 
4-1 victory over California on Irish will try to rediscover There [are] all kinds of possi-in hockey-rabid Duluth, Jack-
Sept. 4. their winning touch against a Contact Matthew DeFranks at bilities.” son said the experience his 
“They’re a strong team. conference foe this time. mdefrank@nd.edu While Tynan and Lee will squad had last year will help 
They always are year in and have trouble fighting off oppo-the Irish tune out distractions 
year out,” Clark said. “It’s go­nents’ defenses, Jackson said and focus on surpassing last 
ing to be a great game if you’re the biggest key to avoiding a season’s success. 
a soccer fan. It’ll be tough and sophomore slump is mental “We’re still a young team, 
we’ll have to turn up and play.” toughness. but we’re a year older,” Jackson 
The Huskies, the lone un­“With great players, you have said. “We played in some pretty 
beaten and untied squad re-great responsibility,” Jackson good environments last year. 
maining in the country, also said. “You’ve got to be able to It’ll be a little bit of culture 
have some firepower. Sopho­handle the pressure that peo-shock for some of the younger 
more forward Mamadou Diouf ple put on you. guys, maybe. This isn’t going to 
leads UConn with six goals “It’s not just the opponent, be any different than playing in 
this year while junior pre­but it’s the pressure, that per-North Dakota, or the regionals 
season All-American forward sonal expectation they put on in New Hampshire. 
Carlos Alvarez has chipped in themselves. You’ve got to be “We’ve got to be prepared to 
three scores himself. careful not to let personal ex-handle the crowd and the pres-
Huskies senior midfielder pectations beat you.” sure and let’s see how much 
Tony Cascio could also pose Despite the high preseason we’ve grown in a year.” 
problems for Notre Dame. The expectations for the top-ranked The Irish open their quest 
Big East Co-Offensive Player of Irish, Johnson said they were for the program’s first-ever 
the Year, Cascio was just one being careful not to take any-national championship Friday 
of two players unanimously thing for granted. and Saturday night in Minne-
selected to the preseason All­“We’re focusing on always sota-Duluth’s AMSOIL Arena. 
Big East team. The preseason taking everything one day at Both games will begin at 7:07 
All-American has two goals a time,” Johnson said. “We’ve p.m. 
and five assists this year. been getting better every day 
“They’re certainly very individually and as a team. I Contact Allan Joseph at 
strong up front and it’ll be a think guys are starting to get ajoseph2@nd.edu 
test,” Clark said. “We hope­
fully got players that are up 
to the test and hopefully we’re 

prepared enough. We have to defend very well individually. 
It’s important to defend well 
as a team also. 

The Huskies will also fea­
ture a unique blend of talent 
from around the world. UCo­
forward Kaitlyn Ritter leads the 
Mental 
Pirates with six goals and also 
leads an unorthodox formation continued from page 24 that has worked for Seton Hall. 
“[Seton Hall] plays with three The problem is we have had defenders and five in the mid-those mental lapses for 10 min-field, so we have to be careful utes or so that really set us about holding the ball in the back.” midfield for too long because it 
Meanwhile, some of Wal-will be congested,” Waldrum drum’s key players are injured, said. including senior midfielder Following the meeting with and co-captain Courtney Barg Seton Hall, the Irish will head and freshman Taylor Schnei-to Piscataway to take on the der. Barg, a 2009 All-American struggling Scarlet Knights (6­selection, hasn’t played since 6-1, 1-4-1), who are winless in Notre Dame’s 2-1 loss to No. 5 their last five games. But Wal-Stanford on Sept. 9. drum said his team’s focus re­
“Courtney has been missing mains on Seton Hall, despite since the Stanford game and she having two games on the week-just started running so we don’t end slate. expect her to play much, if any “We are really just trying to at all,” Waldrum said. “Taylor focus on one game at a time but has been out with a high ankle Rutgers has been a really tough sprain that she keeps tweaking environment to play in,” Wal­in practices and games, so we drum said. “The matchups will sat her last week. She is sort of be better, but it’s still a tough in a gray area right now.” place to play. At this point we 
Notre Dame has struggled really need every game if we on the road this season, going want to win the conference.” 1-4-2 in away games against Seton Hall will host Notre five ranked teams and two Big Dame at 7 p.m. Friday before East rivals. Waldrum expects the Irish head to Rutgers for a yet another road test in Friday’s 12 p.m. showdown Sunday. matchup with Seton Hall (7-4-2, 3-3), who sits three points off Contact Andrew Gastelum at the conference lead. Sophomore agastel1@nd.edu 





CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE KELLy LyNCH and JOE MILLER 

LONDON EXPRESS ALEx GRISWOLD AND LEE HAGGENJOS 


Unscramble these four Jumbles,one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
KPLAO  

©2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
XNENA LGPTIE  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

BOBARS  

Answer: 


HENRy ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: HOBBY JUDGE FORBID IRONICYesterday’s 
Answer: How she felt after spraying the lawn forinsects — GRUBBY 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic ye ar 
 Enclosed is $75 for one semester  

Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Friday, October 7, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 24 
HOCKEY 

Icy revenge 

By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
Last year, No. 1 Notre Dame saw its season end in the Frozen Four with a 4-3 loss to eventual national champion No. 8 Minne­sota-Duluth. This year, the Irish will open their season seeking retribution for that game — and the Bulldogs will make sure that game is firmly planted in Notre Dame’s mind. 
“I don’t need to bring that up. They’re going to hang the [na­tional championship] banner. Good for them — they deserve it,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “Our guys will notice that, because they know that’s the team that took the opportunity away from us. I don’t need to talk about that.” 
While the storyline may be that of a team opening its sea­son against the squad that end­ed its previous one, junior goal­ie Mike Johnson said the Irish will not use revenge as their primary motivating factor. 
“I think, deep down, obvi­ously there’s a little bit of re­venge coming,” Johnson said. “But I think that it’s a new year. 
They’re not the same team, we’re not the same team, so it’s going to be a completely dif­ferent environment [with two] completely different teams go­ing at it. I think we’re going to take this as another game and focus on Friday.” 
The 2010-11 Irish surged to the program’s second Frozen Four berth behind the surpris­ing play of now-sophomores T.J. Tynan and Anders Lee, who headlined an extremely tal­ented freshman class.  While 
see FRESHMEN/page 22 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Waldrum hopes to maintain win streak 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 

Riding its first win streak since early September, Notre Dame will travel to New Jersey to face Seton Hall and Rutgers this weekend, hoping to avoid more struggles on the road. 
The Irish (6-5-2, 3-2-1 Big East) are coming off a pair of 3-0 home victories last week­end over UConn and Provi­dence, where six different Notre Dame players recorded points. Freshman forward Lauren Bohaboy led the way for the Irish, scoring three goals in the two shutouts. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum links the winning streak to the team’s consistent effort throughout the entire game and said it is crucial heading into the Garden State matches. 
“We have really been drill­ing them on playing a full 90 minutes,” Waldrum said. “It’s an important part of winning games and it’s what we did last week and what we are looking for this week. 
“We need to put a second weekend together and dupli­cate what we did [last week­end]: getting a shutout and scoring three goals to get us back to where we need to be. 
see MENTAL/page 22 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Seniors eliminated in singles, to play doubles 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 

Irish senior Kristy Frill­ing began the All-American championship tournament as the No. 3 seed, but was eliminated from the main draw in the first round Thursday in Pacific Pali­sades, Calif. 
Frilling’s match against Baylor senior Sona Novako­va (6-4, 5-7, 4-6) lasted over three hours, with Frilling falling in the first set, steal­ing the second and — after a long battle — losing the final set. 
“I felt okay, but definitely had opportunities,” Frilling said. 
Frilling had previously played Novakova in a dual match against Baylor on Mar. 6 and won in three sets. 
Frilling’s doubles partner senior Shannon Mathews was eliminated Tuesday in the second round of the qualifiers after falling to South Carolina senior Dijana Stojic. 
Even though both Frill-
see DOUBLES/page 18 
MEN’S INTERHALL 
Top interhall squads prepare to do battle 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
Two of the top teams in men’s interhall will square off Sunday when Carroll takes on Sorin. 
The Otters (2-0) are coming off a bye week and will be well-rested when they take the field for the first time in 14 days. Their last vic­tory, a 7-0 defensive battle against Zahm, left the Otters disappointed with their performance, junior quarterback Ted Spinelli said. 
“We suffered a little bit of a set­back in our second game,” Spinelli said. “We’re hoping to get back on track against Carroll.” 
Sorin lacked an aerial threat in its second game, something it hopes to change against the Ver­min (2-1). 
“We need to improve our pass­ing game,” Spinelli said. “We usu­ally end up with a few big plays, but we didn’t get those against Zahm.” 
Sorin will look to get junior receiver Ryan Robinson more touches, with the hope that he can jump-start the passing attack. 
Carroll looks to put together back-to-back wins to close out the regular season. The Vermin know the season finale is vital as they look to earn a postseason berth. 
“We view every game as a must-win,” junior captain Keith Marrero said. “We want to come out on top every week, but we are definitely viewing this [game] as a must-win for the playoffs.” 
With just one game left to play and a playoff spot on the line, Mar­rero said Carroll will not hold any­thing back. 
see CARROLL/page 21 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish face another challenge 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer
 Another Big East game, another ranked foe. 
For the third consecutive conference game, the No. 11 Irish (5-2-3, 1-1-0 Big East) will face a top-15 opponent when they welcome No. 1 Connecticut to campus. 
“Our schedule been pretty tough [all] the way through,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “We played St. John’s and Louisville and they’re all good teams. That’s the way we like it. It lets you see where you are and prepares you for the NCAA tourna­ment.” 
The Huskies (11-0-0, 2-0-0) enter the game off a 3-0 win over Manhattan on Tuesday. In that game, three different players scored and UConn 
see UCONN/page 22 







