
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students prepare for 2011  Fall Career Expo 
Career Center optimistic despite economic climate 
By VICTORIA MORENO 
News Writer 
Students will trade their jeans and flip-flops for suits and Notre Dame-engraved re­sume folders as they head to the Career Center’s Fall Ca­reer Expo today. 
Notre Dame’s annual Expo shows that the University re­fuses to be a passive partici­pant in the current economic climate, said Lee Svete, direc­tor of the Career Center. 
“In the midst of a stagnat­ing economy and poor jobs report released last week, Notre Dame welcomes 149 employers and more than 300 recruiters to this career fair,” he said. 
Approximately 2,000 stu­dents are expected to attend the fair, held from 4 p.m. to 8 
p.m. in the Joyce Center Field House, Svete said. 
Junior Jenna Richman, a management and consulting major, is among the attendees. 
“Of course I’m worried 


see CAREER/page 6 




Career Center helps Arts & Letters majors find jobs 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
As summer ends and the se­mester sets in, students will enter the race for next year’s in­ternships and jobs. 
With business students prep­ping their suits and science ma­jors compiling research expe­rience, how do students in the College of Arts & Letters fair in the competition? 
Lee Svete, director of the Notre Dame Career Center, said while statistics do ebb and flow with the economy, they remain mostly constant for Arts & Let­ters majors. 
“I think what gives me hope is when you come to a great school like this, you can take advantage of the resources,” Svete said. “You realize it’s hard work, but it’s not impossible.” 
For Arts & Letters seniors who graduated last May, 38 percent accepted job offers, 35 percent entered graduate school and 21 percent, the highest of any col­lege, entered non-profit ser 

see ARTS/page  6 



Survey researches social networks 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
Two hundred freshmen, new to campus and college life, re­ceived a special gift when they came to college in August: a free smart phone. 
Researches from Notre Dame’s Interdisciplinary Cen­ter for Network Science and Applications (iCeNSA) and the Wireless Institute gave the in­coming students cell phones to monitor how social networks change and form over time. 
Called the “NetSense Proj­ect,” the study will exam­ine how social networks help spread ideas and information from one person to another, according to the NetSense website. 
Selected students were rector of iCeNSA and a senior loaned the Nexus S 4G smart-investigator for the project, phone, along with a plan from said the study, which is funded Sprint that includes unlimited by a grant through the Na­texting, unlimited data, un-tional Science Foundation, has limited voice calls to and from been in the works for a while. other cellular telephones and “This is a really big study unlimited night and weekend and we’ve been thinking about calls. trying to do this for a number 
David Hachen, associate of years,” he said. professor of sociology, Co-Di-Hachen said Notre Dame is a great location for social net­working research because of its diverse student population 


— most students don’t arrive knowing more than a few peo­ple from high school. 
“Most people, when they come to Notre Dame, don’t really know each other. It’s 

see PHONES/page 7 
Glynn Family Honors Lounge benefits students 
By EMMA RUSS 
News Writer 
On the third floor of O’Shaughnessy Hall there lies a little-known oasis of plush, comfortable furniture, free snacks and honors students galore — the Glynn Family Honors Lounge. 
“The idea behind the Hon­ors Lounge is to provide a forum for us to get together with other honors students and discuss intellectual top­ics,” sophomore honors stu­dent Sarah Cahalan said. “It’s community-based. We’re all buddies.” 
Callie Merriam, another sophomore in the Glynn Fam­ily Honors Program, stud­ies there about three times a week and enjoys the social aspect of the lounge. 
“You start to see people from your classes that you don’t know very well, and you start talking to them,” she said. “It’s a great way for hon­ors students to connect. I met a lot of people here my fresh­man year because freshmen in the Honors Program take most of their core classes to­gether.” 
The Honors Lounge is an especially convenient study space for honors students liv­ing off-campus, senior Elissa Cmunt said. 
“As an off-campus honors student, the lounge is my base for when I’m on campus, a place I can sit down and do work or relax between class­es,” she said. “It’s a quiet, comfortable place to study or meet with friends.” 
One of the most coveted perks of the Honors Lounge is the free food. 
“There is Panera Bread on Mondays and Wednesdays, and cookies on Tuesdays and Thursdays every week,” Mer­riam said, as she munched on a fresh-baked cookie, courte­sy of the lounge. “A lot of stu­dents take advantage of the space, if not for the social 
see HONORS/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC President Mooney addresses freshman page 3 u Viewpoint page 10 u Red Hot Chili Peppers review page 12 u Women’s Soccer page 24 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u Day-to-Day Thursday, September 8, 2011 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK BEYONCE AND JAY-Z WILL NAME THEIR BABY? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 


Post Office Information 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Eva Cavadini  Tara Doyle  Malea Schulte  Elliot Miller  Allegra Sonza  Sloan Thacker  
senior off campus  junior Holy Cross  sophomore LeMans  sophomore LeMans  senior Holy Cross  senior Pangborn  
“BeJay-Z Awesomeness.”  “Baby Z.”  “Fantasia.”  “Katie or Megan.”  “I think they’re going to have  “If Beyonce gets to name it, it will  
twins, so it’s only appropriate that their names  be Single Baby. If Jay-Z does, I’ve Got 99 Problems  
be Bonnie and Clyde.”  but this Baby Ain’t One.”  




Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


TODAY’S STAFF  
News  Sports  
Amanda Gray  Andrew Owens  
Anna Boarini  Katie Heit  
Tori Roeck  Joe Monardo  
Graphics  Scene  
Elisa DeCastro  Alex Kilpatrick  
Photo  Viewpoint  
Mackenzie Sain  Amber Galik  


OFFBEAT 

San Fransisco may pass public nudity 
SAN FRANCISCO — Some­thing could soon be coming between San Francisco’s proud nudists and their un­usual freedom to bare it all. 
Walking around naked is legal in the city under most circumstances, but a city supervisor concerned about public health introduced legislation Tuesday that would require the cloth­ing averse to put a cloth or other barrier under their bottoms if they take a seat in public. 
Supervisor Scott Wiener’s proposal would also require nudists to cover up in res­taurants. 
“What this does do,” Weiner told the San Fran­cisco Chronicle, “is require 

LOCAL WEATHER 
that people show some ba­sic courtesy and decency toward their fellow citizens when they are naked.” 
Wiener represents the city’s Castro District, where a group of men locals refer to as “the naked guys” is known to strut its stuff, and some residents have grown weary of uncensored views. 
One of the guys, Eric Anderson, said people of­fended by public displays of nudity need to examine why they have issues with the human body. 
“To force their conserva­tive views on me isn’t fair,” he told the Chronicle while sitting on a metal chair in a Castro plaza with a book, a sandwich and a sarong sep­arating his backside from the seat. 
Shopper arrested with live lobsters in shorts 
D’IBERVILLE, Miss. — A man in southern Mississippi is accused of trying to walk out of a D’Iberville grocery store without paying for food items he’d stuffed into his cargo shorts including live lobsters. 
Police Chief Wayne Payne says 35-year-old Nathan Mark Hardy was arrested Saturday after allegedly being caught stuffing food into his cargo shorts - two bags of jumbo shrimp, a pork loin and two live lobsters. 
Payne says Hardy, of Biloxi, tried to escape by throwing the pork loin at employees at the local Winn Dixie but fell while running away. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
The Red Cross and Notre Dame ROTC is sponsoring a blood drive from noon to 6 p.m. today in LaFortune Student Center. Please go to redcrossblood.org and type in sponsor code “irish” to schedule your blood donation appointment. Come donate and be entered into a draw­ing to win free gas for a year ($3000 gift card). 
Portuguese writer Isa­bela Figueiredo will give a lecture titled “Fat Women: Exclusion and Desire” to­day at 4 p.m. in the Hes-burgh Center room C103. The talk is co-sponsored by the Luso-American Devel­opment Foundation (FLAD), the Kellogg Institute for In­ternational Studies and the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures. 
The Federalist Society is sponsoring a lecture by Robert George, McCormick Chair of Jurisprudence at Princeton University, today at 4:30 p.m. at Eck Hall of Law room 1130. 
Beginning Sunday, Cinema Play House Photographs by Nandita Raman will be on view at the Snite Museum of Art. This suite of 14 images features interiors of aging cinema houses built in the In­dian cities of Varanasi, Delhi and Kolkata between 1930 and 1960 and is on display at the Snite Museum from 10 
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Thursday thru Satur­day and 1 to 5 p.m. on Sun­days. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 










CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

Thursday, September 8, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
SMC president speaks to first-year students 
By: COLLEEN QUIGLEY 
News Writer 
As a 1972 Saint Mary’s College alumna, Saint Mary’s President Carol Ann Mooney has “distinct memories” of her time as a first-year student. 
She gave advice to this year’s first-year students in the O’Laughlin Au­ditorium Wednes­
“[Going to college] 
day. said she believes 
is a changing point 
“[Going to college] the speech reaf­is a changing point in one’s life.” firmed her decision in one’s life,” she to come to Saint said to the crowd. Carol Ann Mooney Mary’s. 
The experience of “After leaving 
President 
Saint Mary’s was life Saint Mary’s in four 
Saint Mary’s College 
changing, she said. years, I will have and wonder with their time at Saint Mary’s. 
“I hope you will gain a deeper understanding of what it is to be human and [gain a] capacity to put yourselves in the shoes of an­other and have empathy for her situation,” she said. “Learning to be competent is the easiest part of 
the job.” 
Aneth Batamu­
liza, a first year, 
She may have come into college feeling like she didn’t belong and didn’t know anyone, but her time at SMC changed her opinions. 
“I hope all of you will leave [Saint Mary’s] with a sense of awe and wonder at the beauty and complexity of the created world,” she said. 
Mooney’s words were comfort­ing, first year student Ally Dar­ragh said. 
“I will get a special education here because at other schools, we would just be numbers,” Darragh said. “We would learn only the facts of a given subject instead of gaining different perspectives and becoming well rounded.” 
Mooney told the students she wanted them to go beyond awe discovered my po­
tential and gained what I couldn’t have gotten at any other college,” Batamuliza said. “It is such a blessing that I am here.” 
Mooney told students she also wants them to develop a spiritual life at college. 
“[It is not alright to be] content with the answers that sufficed in childhood,” she said. 
All of these factors combined are why Mooney chose a liberal arts education, she said. 
“You are here to learn not just a collection of facts … but also here to learn important things,” she said. 
Contact Colleen Quigley at cquigl01@saintmarys.edu 

ND honored for sustainability 
By ABI HOVERMAN 
News Writer 

Notre Dame’s sustainability practices rank among the top 91 higher education institu­tions in the US and Canada, ac­cording to a recent Silver rating from the Sustainability Track­ing, Assessment and Rating System (STARS). 
Notre Dame voluntarily par­ticipated in the evaluation as a charter member after the program’s founders, the Ad­vancement for Sustainability in Higher Education (AASHE), approached them last summer, said Erin Hafner, programs manager for the Office of Sus­tainability. 
“We saw STARS as a tool to evaluate where we are as far as sustainability goes, and to push us to continue to improve, be­cause it helps us to see some of the areas where we’re lacking,” she said. 
According to AASHE, the comparable nature of STARS encourages cooperation be­tween universities in develop­ing sustainability programs across the country. Notre Dame’s Office of Sustainability was created in 2008. 
“[Sustainability coordina­tors] hold conferences annual­ly, call each other and ask how their programs work on their campuses,” Hafner said. “It’s a collaborative atmosphere in sustainability. There are many universities that still don’t have sustainability efforts.” 
The University failed to re­ceive STARS top Gold rating for a variety of specific shortcom-said. “By the time the survey ings on the survey, which Haf-comes around again we will be ner said are being addressed able to see an improvement [in before STARS reevaluates in building efficiency].” three years. Points were also missed in 
“We have a fairly new sus-the Clean and Renewable En­tainability program,” Hafner ergy category. said. “Some of the areas they “We’re still trying to find how look at we don’t have robust renewable energy fits Notre programs in yet.” Dame,” she said. 
In the education category, Hafner said the University Notre Dame received only 3.13 currently has thin-film and out of 20 points for Sustainabil-traditional solar panels on the ity Focused and Related Cours-roofs of Fitzpatrick and Stin­es. Hafner said that because son-Remick Halls, in addition to the survey was completed in the new wind turbine on top of August before the power plant. the fall semes-The projects will ter began, the be evaluated to 
“We are in the 
new Sustain-see which ener­ability Minor middle of a $10 gy sources work was not con-million investment in best in this re­sidered. energy conservation gion. 
“Any majors measures.” Looking for-or minors will ward, Hafner help us. I only said she is hope-
Erin Hafner 
foresee this ful Notre Dame 
Programs Manager 
area grow-will continue to ing in the next Office of Sustainability improve in sus­
few years,” she said. “There are lots of professors interested in research and teaching in this area so these programs will only continue to grow.” 
Notre Dame also scored poor­ly in Building Energy Consump­tion, which Hafner said would be improved with upcoming renovations, such as retrofit­ting heating, ventilation, cool­ing and lighting systems, paid for with a conservation invest­ment. 
“We are in the middle of a $10 million investment in ener­gy conservation measures,” she tainability to 
join institutions like Duke, Emory and New York Universities in a STARS Gold rating after the next evaluation. 
“We will be able to develop these programs so in three years we will be able to check the ‘yes’ boxes on the survey,” Hafner said. “We’re going to still work towards our main goals of reducing our carbon footprint, reducing the amount of waste we use, and educating about sustainability.” 
Contact abi Hoverman at ahoverma@nd.edu 



Thursday, September 8, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
STUDENT SENATE 

Senators focus on improvements to campus life 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Each senator voiced his or her idea to improve Notre Dame’s campus at Student Senate’s meeting Wednesday night. 
Some issues, such as study space, were brought up mul­tiple times. 
St. Edward’s senator Kyle Ripp said the study spaces in his dorm are disappearing, and there aren’t many other places to go. 
“Our only study space was some rooms on the second floor with about 20 desks,” Ripp said. “And this year, one of them was changed into a pretty small triple. That leaves us with one room and a lounge with couches where it’s pretty hard to get your work done.” 
Keough senator Andrew An­derson agreed that with the rising number of freshmen, dorm study rooms are disap­pearing. 
“We don’t have a place to study late at night when the library closes,” Anderson said. “I want 24-hour spaces outside of the dorm that aren’t Reckers or the LaFortune basement.” 
Anderson also said it would be nice to have separate study areas for students in different colleges, for example a sci­ence study space or a business study space. 
Many senators said they wish to see an increase in re­cycling on campus. 
Grace Deardurff, McGlinn senator, pointed out that even though the University has gar­bage cans with separate bins for recycling, there are not many of them around campus. 
“Even with those newer gar­bage cans, the recycling part is really little,” Pasquerilla West senator Maureen Riegert said. 
Reigert suggested holding a campaign to decrease the number of plastic water bottles students use and instead pro­mote reusable bottles. 
Helen Costa, off-campus sen­ator, said Senate should try to extend the recycling movement off campus as well. 
“They don’t have recycling at all in my complex,” she said. “It would be great if there was a place where we could set recy­clable stuff aside in each com­plex and someone from cam­pus could come pick it up.” 
Stanford senator Ross Mc­Cauley said he would like to see online webcams where students could view the bas­ketball courts at Rolfs and see if any were open. 


“It’s the worst thing if you get five or 10 guys and go down to Rolfs and you can’t get a court and have to wait half an hour,” McCauley said. 
Calvin Belden, Morrissey senator, said an alternative to webcams could be an online count of the number of people who have swiped into Rolfs. 
“We have to swipe in any­way — what if you could just see the current population there?” Belden said. “Or what if you scan in and then you can click ‘I’m going to go play basketball’ or ‘I’m going to go squat?’” 
A few senators drew on their experiences as freshmen for improvement ideas. 
Farley senator Ciara Dineen said she wished she knew the simplicity of different modes of transportation when she was a freshman. 
“I heard Notre Dame was really scary and hard to get around, but now I know it’s really not,” she said. “I think there should be one source where freshmen could go and get taxi numbers and bus schedules, and then I think it would be a lot simpler for them to get around.” 
Duncan senator John O’Brien said student govern­ment should provide freshmen with more information about the different branches of gov­ernment that students are able to get involved in. 
“I know they have Student Government 101, but I was busy freshman year and didn’t go to any of that,” O’Brien said. “It should be a really easy and simple meeting like all the ones that are mandatory for freshman.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 

College student governement helps with Hurricane Irene 
By JILLIAN BARWICK all the victims of Hurricane lection post inside the Noble News Writer Irene. Family Dining Hall. 
Seniors Liz Leeuw, commu-“We seem to be receiving a 
Saint Mary’s Student Gov-nity commissioner, and Ana-good amount of donations so ernment Association (SGA) is bel Castañeda, international far,” Castañeda said. “By the taking donations this week for commissioner, set up a col-end of the week we hope that everyone who passes through the dining hall will be donat­ing.” 

Once these donations have been collected, Leeuw and Castañeda will send them to the American Red Cross. The Red Cross will take the dona­tions and give them to the ar­eas hit the hardest by Irene. 
“Most of the girls at Saint Mary’s that see our efforts are very appreciative of what we are doing because it hits home for many of them,” Leeuw said. “We have many students here who are from the East Coast, and many were affected by the storm.” 
Leeuw and Castañeda or­ganized this event together after the vice president of the SGA showed them an email on Hurricane Irene relief ef­forts from the American Red Cross. Castañeda mentioned to Leeuw that they should do something about it at Saint Mary’s.
 “We were not personally af­fected by Irene, but many of our friends were,” Leeuw said. “The American Red Cross is a great organization to send do­nations to and we knew that collecting donations from the students at Saint Mary’s was the right thing to do for the victims.” 
The storm hit a large portion of the country, Castañeda said. Watching the storm coverage on the news compelled her to help those in need. 
“Something that really struck me was when one of our students from China ap­proached me at the donations table and asked to take a pic­ture with me to send back home,” Castañeda said. “She explained that the Red Cross in China does not organize donations the way the Ameri­can Red Cross does and she was very appreciative of what we were doing for victims of natural disasters in America. It made me realize how the American Red Cross is doing a great job at helping people across the country and how fortunate we are to have them help us.” 
Leeuw and Castañeda will be in the Noble Family Dining Hall through this week from 
4:30 to 6 p.m. during dinner hours. 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi@nd.edu 


page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEwS Thursday, September 8, 2011 

Arts 
continued from page 1 

vice positions. Three per­cent joined the military, two percent pursued other plans and three percent continued to seek employment. Last summer, 508 Arts & Letters undergraduates of approxi­mately 3,500 had an intern­ship. Students can even apply their a business fair, but by popu-
Svete said Arts & Letters stu-skills to jobs outside of their lar demand of companies and dents must take extra steps be-major, Svete said. However, students it opened up to all fore embarking on job-hunts. students interested in doing so majors,” he said. “After this, it 
“Arts & Letters students must learn more about the sub-increased from about 70 com-need to research employers to ject on their own. panies to 150 and added non-an even greater extent to see “If you want to do banking profits like the Peace Corps.” what opportunities are avail-but you’re not in accounting, Of the 1800 to 2000 under-able,” he said. “Because they you have to know the markets. graduates who attend the Fall haven’t taken business classes, You won’t get investment theory Career Expo, approximately they need to learn that on their as an anthropology major,” he 500 represent the College of own.” said. “You have to have an opin-Arts & Letters. 
Students applying for intern-ion and know what the market The Career Center also sup-ships and job positions should is.” ports Arts and Letters stu­understand the organization’s Svete said students who suc-dents through a special “What’s products and services, he said. ceeded in this endeavor in the Next?” Week, held September With this insight they can tailor past have read about compa-26-29. The week will highlight their resume to reflect skills re-nies and the market, attended undergraduate, graduate and lated to the company. workshops and prepared at the post-graduate funding, as well 
Conducting extra research Career Center. as networking opportunities, people. 
on companies is especially im-Joy Feeney, class of 2010, Svete said. 
Honors 
“The spiel the Honors Pro­

portant for Arts & Letters stu-was one student who success-The most important thing for gram gives about being a part 
dents, he said. fully prepared for her career students searching for intern-continued from page 1 of it is ‘working with the best 
“If you don’t dig into it, you in banking as a liberal arts ships or jobs is to start early, he and brightest of Notre Dame 
won’t know they want majors of major. Feeney, who now works said. After beginning, they can and academic aspects, at least students,’” she said. “But I’ve 
all kinds. For example, students for Goldman Sachs, was an eco-network through LinkedIn, find for the freefood.”While some met so many incredibly intel­
often think Heron Consulting is nomics major without finance alumni with myNotreDame and people enjoy the perks of being ligent students outside of the 
just financial services,” Svete studies. apply for funding. an honors student, others who program that it’s clear that’s 
said. “If you look at their web-“She’s a great example of “We gave away $120,000 last are not members of the Honors not the whole truth.” 
site, you see they do healthcare what liberal arts students have year for 53 liberal arts majors, Program have slightly differ-Cmunt did, however, say 
consulting, education consult-to do differently,” Svete said. though we should get more ap­ent reactions to the lounge. her honors classes were 
ing and legal consulting.” “So don’t get discouraged when plicants for the fellowships — “It’s kind of weird that they quite challenging. 
Depending on what services companies say they’re looking the Fulbright program and the have their own lounge,” junior “What is true is that the 
interest a student, he or she for business majors. There are Rhodes Scholars,” Svete said. Kelly Deweese said. “It seems honors classes have, by far, 
might even create different re-many opportunities.” “You want to start early for a little unfair to treat the hon-been some of the most chal­
sumes, Svete said. If one com-The opening of a seemingly those.” ors kids differently than the lenging I’ve taken in my col­
pany is a consulting firm and business-oriented job market Svete said that while the rest of the students. Everyone lege career,” she said. “The 
another emphasizes advertis-to Arts & Letters students im-market is still difficult to enter, here is smart and works hard, lounge simply gives us a 
ing, students might have two pacted Notre Dame as well, he Notre Dame gives students the so why treat the honors kids place to meet up and study 
resumes with different career said. Initiative on the part of tools to gain internships and like an elite class?” for those classes.” 
objectives in each. This ap-students, paired with demand jobs after graduation. Cmunt said she agrees that 
proach is useful to Arts & Let-from companies, transformed generally all Notre Dame stu-Contact Emma Russ at 
ters students who have a vari-the Career Expo five years ago. Contact Nicole toczauer at dents are bright, hard-working eruss@nd.edu 
ety of skills, he said. “The Fall Expo used to be just ntoczaue@nd.edu 
of Arts & Letters. “I am a liberal arts major 
Career 
and I feel like the Career Fair is more for students with busi­continued from page 1 ness majors,” Hrabrick said. 
Senior Jill Kapturowski [about getting a job after also felt that the Career Fair graduation],” Richman said. appeals to business-oriented “I know networking is a big students. part of the job process, so the “I am planning on getting Career Fair seems like a good my master’s in nursing, so I idea.” don’t see the point in going to 
Some students said they the Career Fair,” she said. “If would attend the Expo more graduate school doesn’t work for the experience, than with out, then I will worry about any particular networking getting a job.” agenda in mind. Still, many students view 
“It’s a good opportunity to the Fall Career Expo as a step meet people in the field and toward their future and hope get a feel for what to expect to make a connection with an in the real world,” said junior employer or secure a job op-Andy Boes, a political science portunity, senior Anne Kaifes, major in the College of Arts & a marketing major, said. Letters.  “I went to the Career Center 
The Career Expo is open and met with my advisor to to all college majors and all work on my resume and inter-undergraduate or graduate viewing skills,” Kaifes said. “I students at Notre Dame, Sve-am also attending the market­te said. The participating in-ing networking event the day dustries range from banking before the Career Fair to get to education and recruit at a some extra practice in a pro-variety of degree levels, from fessional environment.” bachelor’s to master’s. Senior Andrew Dupont, a 
The types of job commit-management entrepreneur­ments available include in-ship major, said he prepared ternships, full-time employ-for the Expo with the help of ment, part-time employment more than just his advisor and externships. and the Career Center. 
Despite the fact that many “It took a lot of prayer and participants are looking for discernment, some talk with students with a variety of my friend Sydney and a quick backgrounds and majors, check of my horoscope for me many Notre Dame students to feel ready,” Dupont said. feel as if the Career Expo only “Oh — I also updated my re-targets students in the Men-sume.” doza School of Business, said junior Catie Hrarbrick, a psy-Contact Victoria Moreno at chology major in the College vmoreno@nd.edu 



Thursday, September 8, 2011 The Observer u NEwS 
Student tried as adult in stabbing 
Associated Press 
MEMPHIS — A juvenile court judge ruled Wednesday that a 16-year-old boy accused of fatally stabbing the female principal of his Memphis pri­vate school and leaving her in a pool of blood in a classroom should be tried as an adult. 
Eduardo Marmolejo should be transferred to adult court and held without bond, Spe­cial Judge Herbert Lane de­cided after a hearing in Mem­phis. 
A grand jury will determine whether to indict Marmolejo, who was described by one psychologist as having fanta­sies that he was a soldier or a ninja. 
The teen was initially charged as a juvenile with first-degree murder in the Aug. 10 stabbing of Suzette York in a classroom at Memphis Junior Academy on the third day of classes. The 49-year-old prin­cipal was found by a teacher at the school, which has less than 100 students and is affiliated with the Seventh-day Adven­tist Church. 
State prosecutor Reggie Henderson said Marmolejo stabbed York nine times in the throat and neck, adding the at­tacker sought to make the first cut to the victim's windpipe in order to prevent her screams from being heard. 
Defense attorneys didn't ar­gue whether or not Marmolejo committed the killing. Instead, they questioned homicide de­tectives about how they inter­rogated the teen, who had his mother present when he was interviewed by two officers the day of the stabbing. 
Memphis police Sgt. Dar-ren Goods said Marmolejo voluntarily waived his right to a lawyer and subsequently confessed. But defense attor­ney Whit Gurkin questioned whether the teen was coerced though psychological tech­niques often used by officers during interrogations. 


"Under the circumstances, you can't have a voluntary waiver of rights," Gurkin said. 
Police Sgt. Anthony Mullins testified that evidence showed that after the stabbing, Mar­molejo changed clothes and tried to get rid of the knife he used in the killing by flushing it down the toilet. 
In a an affidavit for a search warrant, Mullins wrote that Marmolejo told investigators that he had planned the kill­ing since May by researching close-combat methods, and he had sharpened the knife the night before the stabbing. 
Mullins also testified that Marmolejo seemed nervous and "inappropriately happy" when questioned hours after the stabbing. 

"I told him he had nothing to be happy about," Mullins said. 
Earlier Wednesday, psychol­ogists for both sides gave con­flicting testimony about the teen's competency. 
John Ciocca, a psychologist hired by the defense, testified thatt the teen was unable to make decisions and communi­cate rationally with his attor­neys. He added that Marmole­jo had been suspended from school on some occasions and showed symptoms of a psy­chotic disorder. 
"His mental instability in­terfered with his ability to communicate," Ciocca said, adding the defendant would sometimes lapse into a fan­tasy world in which he saw himself as a soldier or a ninja. 
"Eduardo Marmolejo sees himself as a fighter, as a sol­dier," Ciocca said. "He would retreat to this role of being a powerful person." 

Phones 
continued from page 1 
almost an experiment to see who’s interacting with whom,” he said. “Most people are in­teracting with a few [others] in the study, maybe two or three. We expect that to increase over time.” 
The phones are programmed to capture information on how students are using their phones to text, voice call, post on Face­book and email, Hachen said. 
The plan was provided to participants at no charge and is available until the close of the academic year in May of 2013. 
In the past, the best way to find out about people’s so­cial networks was to just ask them, Hachen said. A huge
 of
advantage more 
“We’re just interested 
this particular over time. 
in where and when you 
study is that re-“The re’s searchers can use your phone. ” a lot of de­track students’ bate … about social behavior Aaron Streigel why certain through unob-ties emerge,” 
associate professor of 
trusive mea-he said. “My 
computer science 
theory is that sures. 
“Eventually, people don’t even think they’re in a survey. They’re just behaving as they [normally] would. [It’s] much less biased,” he said. 
Hachen said researchers have taken a great deal of pre­cautions to ensure students’ safety and privacy. Research publications developed from the data will focus on gen­eral network patterns, not on people’s specific networks, the website said. 
“We’re not going to be look­ing at individuals. We’re go­ing to be looking at patterns,” Hachen said. “We’re never get­ting any information on the content of their interactions.” 
Freshman Ellen Roof, a par­ticipant in the study, said she’s not at all worried about her privacy. 
“At first, I didn’t even consid­er any issues with people be­ing able to take data from my phone or analyze my phone us­age,” she said. “I was just about to upgrade my old phone any­way, so it was perfect timing.” 
Roof said her programmed Nexus S 4G feels “completely like a normal phone.” 
“The researchers assured us they wouldn’t look at the con­tent of our messages, so I don’t worry about any invasion of privacy,” she said. 
Freshman Colleen Doyle was also unconcerned about any threats to her privacy. 
“It’s more just monitoring how you use it,” she said. “I don’t think about it much.” 
Roof said the main rules for students participating in the study are to keep the phone’s Bluetooth on at all times, use the phone as their primary cellular device and answer one-question quizzes that pop up on the screen occasionally like, “Did you go to the football 
ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 
game?” or “How are you feel­ing today?” 
“Overall, I think the study’s results will be interesting to see, and I’m glad I was able to participate in it,” Doyle said. 
Aaron Striegel, associate professor of computer science and engineering and a senior researcher for the project, said the study originally kicked off after a meeting last fall with Dan Hesse, CEO of Sprint and a Notre Dame alum. 
Striegel said the NetSense Project wouldn’t be possible without donations from Sprint. 
“[Sprint is] donating about $300,000 worth of service to make this all happen,” Striegel said. 
Hachen said one of the main questions sociologists will at­tempt to answer with this study is whether people choose their friends based on similarities, or whether they become similar 
people make 
ties at random. The real question is why some ties persist and some don’t.” 
Hachen said the focus of the study is trying to use media to map out people’s networks. 
“Formation and persistence or decay of social ties among people are … crucial,” he said. 
Researchers are also taking note of whether students main­tain high school friendships as they start to build new friend­ships at Notre Dame. 
“I expect pretty important networks to start emerging, some ties to start and stop, oth­ers to develop,” Hachen said. 
The NetSense Project is not only valuable for sociologists — engineers also find it helpful. 
Striegel said that from an en­gineering standpoint, the study provides data that can be used to design better cellular net­works. 
“The forecast for cell traf­fic is said to double every year for the next 10 years,” he said. “We’re interested in seeing how people actually use [their] phones.” 
Questions researchers from the Wireless Institute will con­sider include how students use their phones when friends are around versus when they are alone, and whether students tend to congregate more where there’s better network cover­age. 
He said programming in the phone allows researchers to monitor how close people are while they’re interacting with their phones, i.e. if they’re tex­ting one another even when they’re a few feet away. 
“We’re just interested in where and when you use your phone,” Striegel said. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 


page 8 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEwS Thursday, September 8, 2011 
U.S. troop withdrawal continues as planned 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON  — The sched­uled withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq is on track, a Pen­tagon official said Wednesday, but the Obama administration has yet to decide how many troops might stay there on a revised mission to help train Iraqi forces. 
“The drawdown has begun,” Navy Capt. John Kirby, a Pen­tagon spokesman, told report­ers. He referred to the depar­ture from Iraq this week of about 700 members of a head­quarters unit. Their departure marks the start of the with­drawal of the final 46,000 U.S. troops there. 
Yet to be decided is the size and mission of any stay-behind contingent. The Iraqi govern­ment said last month that it is interested in negotiating the terms for a U.S. military group to continue training Iraqi forc­es beyond Dec. 31, when the last 
U.S. forces are to have departed under a 2008 agreement. 
The administration is consid­ering a number of options that could leave several thousand troops in Iraq to do training and possibly other missions. 
If the Iraqis decide they don’t need a reinforced U.S. training contingent, then only about 150 
U.S. military members would remain in Iraq next year as part of the U.S. Embassy’s Of­fice of Security Cooperation. They would help train Iraqis on new military equipment like battle tanks. 
James F. Jeffrey, the U.S. am­bassador in Iraq, said Wednes­day that a proposal to keep 3,000 troops in Iraq next year, as reported by some news or­ganizations, has “no official status or credibility.” Jeffrey said that proposal has not been a part of ongoing discussions in Baghdad where both gov­ernments have been weighing whether up to 10,000 US forces should stay beyond Dec. 31. 
Army Gen. Martin Dempsey, who will take over as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff at the end of the month, said Wednes­day that he hasn’t been part of the internal deliberations on the drawdown. At a ceremony, Dempsey was asked about re­ports that the U.S. might leave as few as 3,000 troops in Iraq. 
“I haven’t been exposed to the number,” he said, adding that “we should all realize that the Iraqi government will also have a say in what size struc­ture and what size force should remain and for what purposes.” 
On Capitol Hill, a senior State Department nominee said the administration has made no final decision on how many troops it may keep in Iraq. Wendy Sherman told her Sen­ate confirmation hearing that the issue centers on Iraqi gov­ernment interest in U.S. mili­tary trainers. Sherman is the nominee to become the under­secretary of state for policy. 
Some Republicans in Con­gress are advocating a much larger U.S. military presence in Iraq beyond 2011. They argue that a smaller presence would unnecessarily risk an unravel­ing of the security gains that have been accomplished at the cost of thousands of American lives. 
Sen. John McCain, the top Re­publican on the Armed Servic­es Committee, said keeping as few as 3,000 troops in Iraq falls far short of what U.S. military commanders have told him is needed. McCain cited conver­sations he has had during nu­merous visits to Iraq over the years. 
Among the concerns cited by 
U.S. commanders are Iraq’s un­derdeveloped air defenses and its gaps in intelligence, surveil­lance and reconnaissance. 
“It’s in America’s national security interest not to lose Iraq after the sacrifice of some 4,500 brave young Americans,” McCain said on the Senate floor. “And the consequences of failure are obvious.” 
Pentagon press secretary George Little said the State De­partment is leading the troop discussions with Iraq. He de­clined to discuss the internal deliberations. 

Divided Congress reconvenes 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Fights large and small await Con­gress as it gets back to busi­ness, with jobs and budget cuts topping a contentious agenda that also includes a lengthy roster of lower-pro­file but must-do items that also are potential victims of partisan gridlock. 
President Barack Obama is to unveil his jobs agenda in a nationally televised address Thursday night, but early glimpses of the package show it relies heavily on extending expiring programs. 
Obama is expected to pro­pose $300 billion in tax cuts and federal spending to get Americans working again. Republicans on Tuesday of­fered to compromise with him on jobs — but also as­sailed his plans in advance of his prime-time speech. 
According to people fa­miliar with the White House deliberations, two of the big­gest measures in the presi­dent’s proposals for 2012 are expected to be a one-year extension of a payroll tax cut for workers and an extension of expiring jobless benefits. Together those two would to­tal about $170 billion. 
The people spoke on the condition of anonymity be­cause the plan was still being finalized and some propos­als could still be subject to change. 
The White House is also considering a tax credit for businesses that hire the un­employed and spending on public works projects such as school construction. 
Obama’s speech dovetails with the launch of a bipar­tisan deficit-reduction panel that will hold its first meeting Thursday amid mixed expec­tations that it can be success­ful in a highly partisan cli­mate infused with heavy doses of presidential politics. 
In the Senate, the political tit-for-tat started immediately after the opening prayer Tues­day. 
Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell predicted Obama’s speech on jobs leg­islation to a joint session of Congress would include “more of the same failed approach that’s only made things worse over the past few years.” 
He spoke a few moments af­ter the Senate’s top Democrat, Harry Reid of Nevada, had said that Republicans, rather than working with Democrats to produce job-creating legis­lation, insist on “reckless cuts to hurt our economic recov­ery.” 
The deficit panel’s deadline isn’t until late November. But in the short term, there’s a need for legislation required to simply keep the government running past Sept. 30. 
That includes a stopgap bill to avoid a government shut­down and short-term exten­sions of highway and aviation programs needed to head off widespread layoffs of con­struction workers whose live­lihoods are financed by ticket and gasoline taxes set to ex­pire soon. 
A full roster of appropria­tions bills also looms. The Sen­ate Appropriations Committee is getting to work in earnest Wednesday on three spend­ing bills, including a measure providing $6 billion in much-needed disaster aid — most of which comes on top of tight budget caps imposed just last month. 
But time for floor debate could prove to be scarce and all sides already were brac­ing for the possibility of un­popular “omnibus” legislation wrapping together all the ap­propriations bills instead of the 12 individual spending bills a more functional Con­gress might produce. 
A shortfall in the Feder­al Emergency Management Agency’s disaster account al­ready has forced a freeze in longer-term rebuilding proj­ects so that remaining money can help victims of recent tragedies such as Hurricane Irene. But the legislation to fund FEMA’s budget won’t be ready for weeks, which may require a stopgap measure to avoid a cutoff of disaster relief like temporary food and shel­ter. 
The Senate’s moves on di­saster aid could spark a bat­tle with tea party-backed House Republicans, who say Congress should cut federal spending elsewhere to pay for disaster aid. 
None of the handful of Re­publicans present at a Senate Appropriations subcommit­tee vote Tuesday complained about the move, however. 
The House returns Wednes­day. On Tuesday, House Speak­er John Boehner, R-Ohio, and Majority Leader Eric Cantor, R-Va., offered an olive branch of sorts in a letter to Obama in which they wrote that neither party would win all it wants from the coming debate over jobs legislation. 
“We should not approach this as an all-or-nothing situa­tion,” they said, striking a con­ciliatory tone. 


Thursday, September 8, 2011 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 9 
Economists weigh in on plan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — First, do no harm. Economists say the most important part of the jobs plan President Barack Obama will unveil Thursday night is the re­newal of two measures already in place — a cut in Social Se­curity taxes and emergency aid for the unemployed. 
His new proposals, like spending more for transporta­tion projects and cutting taxes for companies that hire the un­employed, probably wouldn’t add many jobs, they say. Not soon, anyway. 
“These are not bold, new, big programs,” says Nariman Beh­ravesh, chief economist with IHS Global Insight. “You put ev­erything together, it’s going to be pretty small.” 
The job market needs big help. In August, the economy generated zero job growth. And the unemployment rate is 9.1 percent, a level more typical for a recession than for a recovery in its third year. 
For Obama, who also faces sinking approval ratings as he goes before a joint session of Congress and on national TV, the options are limited. Con­gress must approve any new measures, and congressio­nal Republicans oppose new spending. 
“Anything that would be of a big enough size to really help the labor market is going to have trouble getting through Congress,” says Michael Han­son, senior economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “And anything that can get through Congress will be too small to be much help.” 
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, International Monetary Fund chief Christine Lagarde and other economists have urged Congress to do more to help job growth and the economy over the next year or two — and worry about cut­ting spending later. 
Economist Barry Bosworth of the Brookings Institution, for example, says the government needs to spend $700 billion to $800 billion a year to generate healthy job growth. 
Obama’s plan was still being shaped Wednesday. Here are the ideas the White House is considering: 
u Extending, for one year, a cut in the payroll tax that sup­ports Social Security. The cut, part of a deal struck last De­cember by Obama and Repub­licans, reduces the tax to 4.2 percent from 6.2 percent on the first $106,800 a person makes. That amounts to $1,000 a year for someone earning $50,000. 
Keeping the tax cut would cost the government $110 bil­lion to $115 billion. The re­search firm Macroeconomic Advisers estimates it would support 400,000 jobs in 2012. The theory: More money in people’s pockets increases de­mand for goods and services across the economy, and busi­nesses have to have enough workers to keep up. 
The problem is that keeping the tax cut doesn’t create jobs where they didn’t exist before. 
“It’s in the ‘Do no harm’ camp,” says economist Heidi Shierholz of the Economic Policy Institute. “We have that support now, so it’s not going to gain us anything. It’s just a matter of: If we let it go, we lose.” 
Critics of this approach also point out that the extra money in people’s paychecks this year has mostly been eaten up by higher gasoline prices. 

“Continuing the payroll tax cut is tempting,” says John Ma-kin, economist at the Ameri­can Enterprise Institute. “But I have to ask, if I look at the re­sults, is it worth an increase in the deficit and debt?” 
u Keeping emergency unem­ployment benefits for another year. Unemployment checks put money in the hands of people who are likely to spend it immediately, helping busi­nesses and making them more likely to hire. 
Macroeconomic Advisers es­timates that another year of emergency unemployment ben­efits would support 200,000 jobs in 2012. 
Critics say unemployment benefits discourage some peo­ple from aggressively seeking work. Researchers at the Fed­eral Reserve Bank of San Fran­cisco have concluded that un­employment benefits keep the unemployment rate about 0.4 percentage point higher than it would be otherwise. 
The unemployed used to get 26 weeks of benefits. Dur­ing the recession, Congress extended it to as much as 99 weeks — almost two years — in states with high unemploy­ment. 
u Obama may back a nation­al version of a Georgia program that encourages businesses to provide on-the-job training for people receiving unemploy­ment benefits. About a third of the time, the workers wind up getting hired full-time. 
Offering tax incentives to businesses to hire the unem­ployed. Under consideration is an expanded version of a law passed last year that encour­aged companies to hire the un­employed. 
Texas wildfires burn; Gov. Perry back on trail 



Associated Press 
BASTROP, Texas  — Firefight­ers gained ground Wednes­day against one of the most destructive wildfires in Texas history even as the number of homes lost reached almost 800, and an elite search team set out to find any victims in the smoking ruins. 
Gov. Rick Perry, meanwhile, resumed his presidential cam­paign after rushing home over the weekend to deal with the crisis, traveling to California to meet his Republican rivals Wednesday night in his first nationally televised debate. 
The blaze has left at least two people dead — their bod­ies were found on Tuesday 
— blackened about 45 square miles around Bastrop and cast a haze over Austin, 25 miles to the east, where the air smelled strongly of pine and cedar. 
Firefighters reported that the flames were at least 30 per­cent contained after burning uncontrolled for three days. They credited an easing of the winds from Tropical Storm Lee that had caused the fire to ex­plode over the weekend. Never­theless, the number of homes reported destroyed rose from around 600 the day before. 
The wildfire is the most catastrophic of more than 170 blazes that have erupted in the past week across the Lone Star State, where the countryside is perilously dry because of one of the most severe droughts on record in Texas. In addition to the two victims in the Bastrop fire, the outbreak is blamed for two deaths elsewhere. 
Texas Task Force 1, a search team that was sent to New York following the Sept. 11 terror­ist attacks and to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, set out in the Bastrop area, using dogs trained to sniff out bodies. 
Mike Fisher, the Bastrop County Emergency Operations Agency’s incident commander, said he didn’t know if there were any more dead, but “if there are bodies out there, that team is going to find them.” 
Several thousand people evacuated ahead of the fire, but only around 2,500 registered with the county. 
Across the state, about 1,200 firefighters battled the blazes, including crews from as far away as California and Oregon. 
The outbreak has made this the state’s costliest wildfire season on record, with $216 million in firefighting expenses since late 2010. 
The crisis is unfolding months after Perry signed a budget that cut funding to the Texas Forest Service by one-third. Yet the agency insisted that being $35 million lighter hasn’t left Texas less equipped to fight the latest fires. 
Under the new budget, which went into effect last week, no firefighters in the Forest Ser­vice were laid off, and the bulk of cutbacks will be felt by vol­unteer fire departments that were denied money for new trucks, said Robbie Dewitt, the agency’s finance officer. 
Moreover, fire officials said they will spend whatever is necessary to deal with the di­saster and worry about how to pay for it later. 
At the Bastrop convention center, residents streamed in to check maps taped to the pil­lars that showed the destruc­tion. 
Faye Tucker said she could tell just by looking at the map that her home of 20 years was gone, even though it wasn’t among the addresses listed as destroyed. She and her husband had recently spent $20,000 to renovate the place. 
“It’s just stuff. I think that the thing to keep in mind here is so far we only have two con­firmed deaths. ... So I’ll take that,” she said. 
Perry returned to the cam­paign trail after cutting short a visit to South Carolina on Sun­day. 
“I’m a little disappointed af­ter what he said the other day about pushing politics aside because Texans are his first priority,” said Guylaine Willi­ett, who lives near an area that was severely burned. 


INSIDE COLUMN 
U Miami’s 
football 
scandal 
Corruption has been a fact of life for major collegiate athletics for most of the past 30 years. Nothing has illus­trated this problem more than this past offseason. There have been play­ers receiving illegal benefits and boost­ers overstepping boundaries all Joe Wirth over the country. Even everyone’s Sports Writer Cinderella, Boise State, had rule violations. 
The recent University of Miami scandal, however, pushes the issue to another level. Under the Larry Coker and Randy Shannon coaching regimes, players were reportedly given yachts, women and free abortions by Nevin Shapiro, an overzealous booster who reportedly was willing to pay $1 mil­lion to the athletic director if he was allowed to become the coach of the football team. 
That request alone should have raised some red flags. How this fanatic was able to get such access to college-aged players without administrative regulation is baffling. It is naïve to think this went unnoticed by school officials. 
Miami football is no stranger to NCAA trouble. Known as the bad boys of college football in the 1980s, their cockiness and bravado defeated their opponents before kickoff. In 1995, the school was cited for numerous violations, most of which occurred in the glory years of the 1980s. This prompted Sports Illustrated to raise the question of whether or not Miami should drop the football program — a question that may be raised again as more details emerge from the NCAA’s investigation. 
Seemingly not since the Southern Methodist University (SMU) football scandal of the late 1980s has there been such an obscene violation of NCAA rules. Highlighted by the “Pony Express” of Eric Dickerson and Craig James, the Mustangs were a perennial national championship contender in the 1980s. That all changed when SMU was given the death penalty for numer­ous violations, most notably paying recruits to come. The culture around the program was so bad that when Dickerson was entering the NFL, the joke was that he would be taking a pay cut by going pro. 
The sanctions resulted in SMU giv­ing up nearly all football scholarships and the NCAA cancelling their 1987 season. It may be time for Miami to receive the same verdict. These sanc­tions crippled the once proud program (SMU did not go to a bowl from 1984­2009) and served as an example for other programs to stay in line. 
Miami is flirting with an equally devastating decision if these reports prove to be accurate. Some argue that the college football landscape has changed so much since the 1980s that the death penalty is simply impracti­cal. Yes, there is a lot of money at stake and Miami is one of the marquee programs in college football, but if the NCAA wants to get serious on crack­ing down on rogue programs, they will finally give “The U” what it deserves — a death sentence. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Joe Wirth at      jwirth@nd.edu 

Our Lady of Sorrows 
“Standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother and his mother’s sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary of Magdala. When Jesus saw his mother and the disciple there whom he loved, he said to his mother, “Woman, behold your son.” Then he said to the disci-Fr. Lou DelFra ple, “Behold, your mother.” (John 19: Faithpoint 25-27) 
This passage from Jesus’ Crucifixion — an icon of Our Lady of Sorrows, patroness of Holy Cross, whose Feast Day we celebrate next week — never fails to elicit from me strong and contending emotions. I feel, of course, awe at Mary’s strength, at her ability to stand by her son’s mu­tilated and dying body, hanging in dis­grace. 
But mostly, whenever I allow the full weight of the scene to penetrate my heart, I feel dread, even a touch of nausea, as I imagine the helpless ter­ror of this interaction between mother and dying son. There was nothing for her to do. Didn’t that reality, combined with the suffering of her son, drive her to the point of utter despair? 
One always hears the explanation that everyone else had fled in fear of being associated with the state’s hang­ing criminal, the Jewish rebel. Or that they trudged away in despondence, their hopes that Jesus was the Messiah finally and completely dashed. Surely, these explanations are true. 
Yet, I wonder too if many fled — as I would have — simply because they couldn’t bear the pain. It is extremely difficult to watch another person suf­fer, especially a person we love. Even this morning, I read through the news articles of the drought and starvation deaths in Somalia with a furtive rapid­ity, as if to catch the utterly senseless suffering and my relative helplessness before they sink in. It is so much easier to turn away. 
Last week, I stood behind the altar during the funeral mass of a student’s father. His death was unexpected and the grief and emotion of the funeral was heavier and more palpable than most. In the front pew the mom and her three children were seated. The youngest of the siblings, who caught my eye imme­diately, was a teenager with Down syn­drome. At times throughout the funeral Mass, as was true for every person in the church, the emotions seemed to over­whelm him and he needed some outlet. 
At these times, he would invariably ex­hibit the same, unusual behavior — he would crane his neck around his sib­lings and stare from an awkward angle into his mother’s face. And whenever a tear would drop from one of her eyes, he would conspicuously reach out and rub it away. Then he would draw back his hand, but not his face, and stare again, waiting for another tear. He seemed not to blink; he barely moved, staring at her. Minutes would pass and he remained locked in this position, until another tear would arrive and he would reach out for her face again. 
At first, I was distracted by this un­usual behavior. In fact, at moments, I felt troubled by … what? What others in the church were thinking — that they, or I, were embarrassed by a person who did not know the “proper” ways to express grief? That he was distracting his mom and siblings from their grieving? That this was not “normal” behavior? 
But, if not normal, then what precisely was abnormal about it? Is it “abnormal” to be so attuned to another’s suffering that you can bring yourself to do noth­ing but faithfully, indeed, adamantly, be with that person? Yes, perhaps in our culture such willingness has increas­ingly become abnormal…. 
Since the funeral, as I reflect on this son and my own reactions to his re­sponses, I realize that I was troubled, at least in part, by the appearance of his “invasion” into his mother’s pain, in such a public setting no less. Somewhere along the line, I have apparently learned that suffering and pain are strictly pri­vate matters. Each person should have the space to deal with suffering on their own — in their own way, on their own terms. 
Yet I wonder if everyone in the church that day also realized how abnormally far we have gone in “giving others their space.” And furthermore, whether some of our “giving others their space” is ac­tually a convenient excuse for us not to have to deal with their suffering. For as I reflect on the funeral that morning, I no longer interpret this son’s actions as abnormal behavior but as extraordinary love — the most free and human re­sponse I witnessed that day. 
As I recall the scene from that morn­ing, I find myself learning from the son 
— he has been preaching a homily to me over these last several days. I have grown not only more comfortable with his ac­tions but also more uncomfortable with mine. How ready am I to stand by, to be with, one who is suffering? Especially if there is not much I can do to “fix” it? 
It is one thing, and not an easy one, to relieve someone of their suffering. We can feel the accomplishment of “do­ing something good,” or “succeeding.” We can feel the reward for our compas­sion. But perhaps at the foot of the cross, or in this son’s unexpected attentive­ness to his mom’s grief, we gain an in­sight into the heroic courage and love of Mary, Our Lady of Sorrows, a title our culture seems to find increasingly dif­ficult to understand. It is a person of singular grace and the deepest human­ity who can stand with one who suffers. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, is the Director of Pastoral Life for the ACE Program and a member of Campus Ministry.  He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
We are still ND 
As a Notre Dame student, I cannot help but respond to the letter from Mr. Lushis printed in the Viewpoint on Wednesday. In “Where’s the Spirit?”, the Notre Dame student body was deemed insulting, disrespectful and sad for not returning to the USF game after the rain delays. 
I would first like to point out that while the play of the game undoubt­edly influenced the students in their decision not to stay for the full game, the weather was the biggest factor. 
With temperatures lingering in the 90s all afternoon and the onset of storms that had no foreseeable end, students decided to eat for the first time in several hours or perhaps sim­ply rest their feet. This was not done 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Maturity is a bitter disappointment for which no remedy exists, unless laughter can be said to remedy anything.” 
Kurt Vonnegut 
U.S. novelist 
to spite the team, band or remainder of the Notre Dame family but instead to remedy our exhaustion. 
I cannot deny that the student body is dissatisfied with the football team. The class of 1977 saw a national champion­ship season and a record of 38-8, if my calculations are correct. The class of 2012 is sitting at 21-18. 
My experience of Notre Dame foot­ball is marked not by national cham­pionships but by frequent coaching changes. How can you scold students for being dissatisfied when our athletic program is the paradigm of dissatisfac­tion? How can you expect students to respond when coaches have a five-year shelf life? 
Finally, for Mr. Lushis to say we no longer have the greatest student body in the world because of this one game is insulting to me. We have been through many tragedies in recent years and even weeks, and we come together in a way only Notre Dame students can. Yet, because some of us decided not to return to the game after two rain de­lays, our spirit isn’t good enough? Our spirit also shows outside of the football stands. 
We are more than football, Mr. Lushis, and we deserve better. 
Erin Scott 
senior 
Off campus 
Sept. 7 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Where is human nature so weak as in the bookstore?” 
Henry Ward Beecher 
U.S. abolitionist & clergyman 


Thursday, September 8, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Go Irish! 
Dear Mr. Lushis, 

After reading your letter to the editor dated Sept. 5 and printed in the Sept. 7 newspaper, I felt I should reply with my opinion. 
First of all, I am glad to hear that an alumnus and member of the Notre Dame family is still voicing his opinion. I hope that my passion will be as strong years after I graduate. With that being said, I completely disagree with your argument. 
I’ll first challenge the fact by pointing out this Saturday was the first weather delay we have ever had in Notre Dame Stadium. While you claim that your sec­tion may have been loud and passionate and all that jazz, you can’t conclude that more people in your student section would have showed up after the first rain delay than ours did. 
Secondly, you graduated in 1977, the year after Rudy graduated, and a few months before Dan Devine won the national championship. Everybody and their family, literally, wanted to go and see the best team in the nation play. We haven’t had that kind of experience in our student section (yet!), but we still show up and cheer our hearts out for the team we love. 
I should also add that after the first game delay, the student body that returned was incredibly loud and excited about the continuation of the game despite the disappointing first half. I don’t know numbers, of course, but I can tell you that being in the student section for the first drive of the second half was louder and more passionate than the first half. We were rallying around Tommy boy and the well-improved defense! Not only did we do that the first time, but the sec­ond rain delay return was just as loud, especially after Michael Floyd snagged a touchdown pass right in front of us. We may not compete with a giant, 40,000, SEC- style student section in volume, but the thousands of Notre Dame students left were cheering until the end. 
And for my last point, I’d like to give a shout out to the band. First off, you guys rock! It didn’t quite feel like football Saturday without a sensational halftime show. That’s exactly why the entire student section started chanting “halftime show” after it was announced that there would not be one following the conclu­sion of the game. 
Conclusively, I believe that we do have the pride and spirit you seem to think we lack. If you still doubt it, look at the volume of students going to Michigan this weekend. Awesome. If we want our stadium to be as loud as the Big House, we need everyone in the stadium, not just the student section, to stand and cheer from beginning to end. I challenge any and all willing and capable alumni to follow our lead and cheer as loud as you can for our boys in blue. And student section, let’s give ’em all we’ve got against Michigan State! 
Go Kelly. Go get it Tommy Rees! And as always, GO IRISH!!!! 

Tom Spoonmore 
sophomore Carroll Hall Sept. 7 

Loyal sons and daughters 
Mr. Lushis, 

I value and respect your opinion as an alumnus of Notre Dame. However, I must respectfully disagree with your analysis of the student section this past Saturday. 
You allege that “a very substantial number of students did not return” after the delay at halftime. There are no official statistics, but just from looking around the stadium it was clear that a vast majority of the student body returned for the second half, despite our team being down 16-0. Even after the second rain delay, when much of the stadium cleared out, the student section was still quite full. At the end of the game, our players were far from alone in singing the alma mater. 
During the first half of the game, the students may not have been as spirited as usual, largely because of the heat. After the break, though, we came back reen­ergized and excited to cheer our team on to victory. We outscored South Florida 20-7 in the second half, and it felt like a completely different football game — both on the field and in the stands. 
Among other reasons, Notre Dame appealed to me because of the school spirit and community, which I believe are best displayed at football games. Saturday’s game didn’t change this perception; rather, it reinforced it. The football team will turn the season around, and Notre Dame’s loyal sons — and daughters — will be there to cheer them on. 
Elizabeth Owers 
sophomore 
Walsh Hall 
Sept. 7 


In Notre Dame 

Dear Mr. Lushis, 
I am writing to you, as well as to the student body of Notre Dame, in response your letter titled “Where’s the Spirit?” that appeared in The Observer on Sept. 7. In that letter, you expressed your disappointment in the Notre Dame student body for the “lack of spirit” we demonstrated during Saturday’s six-hour game versus USF. When I read your letter, I actually became angry. 
In the past year, I have found myself agreeing with many Letters to the Editor about how Notre Dame students should show more spirit, but this time was differ­ent. First of all, with all due respect, Mr. Lushis, Notre Dame football is just not the same as it was when you were a student here. Unlike you, the current students of Notre Dame have not had the pleasure of constantly having one of the best teams in college football to cheer for year after year. Instead, we watch our beloved Fighting Irish endure heart-wrenching losses and constantly be dismissed by col­lege football analysts as “overrated” and “irrelevant.” 
That is why on Saturday, when I came back to cheer on the Irish after both rain delays, my reaction upon seeing the student section was very different. Instead of noticing the few empty spaces, I was filled with pride upon seeing that the vast majority of the student body had returned again and again to stand in the rain and watch a game that we clearly were not going to win. Not only that, but in the midst of defeat, students were cheering even louder than before, swelling with pride as chants of “We are ND” reverberated through the stadium. While many (maybe even most) of the fans decided to leave the game, it seemed to me that, we, the students, were the ones who stuck around to support our team. 
So Mr. Lushis, let me say that as a third-generation Domer: I know what Notre Dame spirit is all about. While my mother, aunts, uncles and grandfather have celebrated Notre Dame national championships several times, I have accepted the unfortunate reality that the Irish will probably never win a national championship during my time here. 
The next time you watch a football game at Notre Dame, I would hope that you are able to look at the student section and see that the precious time and money that you and fellow alums have so generously donated has not gone to waste. Notre Dame football may not be as dominant as it used to be, but one thing will never change: the student body’s unwavering dedication to our team and to our school. 
Go Irish, beat Wolverines! 
Mara Walsh 
sophomore Howard Hall Sept. 7 
UWIRE 

All majors are created equal 
You know that uncomfortable moment when you first meet someone, and in an attempt to sound interesting all you can think to ask is “So, what’s your major?” I hate that question. Mostly I hate it because of the reaction I get. 
As soon as the word “English” leaves my mouth, it brings about a repulsive reaction. It can only be described as the noise a child makes when vegetables are placed in front of him. The second word — “Education” — brings an even worse noise that sounds something like a garbage disposal and pterodactyl making love. 
We all know the stereotypes surrounding every major but, if you look at them honestly, you’ll find that all of Madison Murphy them has value in our society. Each major is difficult in its own way. If they weren’t, it wouldn’t be necessary to Technician have a college degree to have a job in that field. 
Certain majors are not any less important because their books cost less, their jobs pay less or because they don’t have to write 20 page lab reports. English majors may not spend hours in a lab, but we can read a 200 page book in 3 hours max. 
A lot of science and math students undervalue the influence of a piece of litera­ture. The Bible has created more change in the world than any other book to date. Martin Luther King’s “I Have a Dream” speech, “The Communist Manifesto,” Betty Friedan’s  “The Feminine Mystique,” Edward Gibbon’s “The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire” and Isaac Newton’s “Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy” all had a large influence on cultural development as well. 
Equality of all majors is based on the fact that the world cannot function without each one. Our engineers cannot be educated without teachers. Our country can­not run without political scientists or economists, and without meteorologists, we wouldn’t know that Hurricane Irene was heading our way. 
A narrower focus reveals that each field of study is dependent on other disci­plines. Take, for example, my major. An English major cannot fully understand a reading if he or she does not understand the historical context. Sure, one can read and comprehend “A Raisin in the Sun,” but the cultural influence far outweighs the meaning of the text itself. 
The cultural influence of a work is something that could only be understood if researched by the reader. This type of research crosses into the realm of a history major. This same merge of majors happens when chemistry and math mix to un­derstand the periodic table of elements. Even English and engineering can mesh in the form of technical writing. Students would not be complete in their knowl­edge without their major being influenced by another area of study. This is exactly why each major is required to take general education classes. 
The thing I’m asking you to remember, fellow students, is the next time someone tells you about what you deem to be a “worthless” major, remember this article. Remember that all majors are created equal. 
This article originally ran in the Sept. 7 version of the Technician, the newspaper serving North Carolina State University. 

By Ross Finney 
Scene Writer 
The Red Hot Chili Pep­pers are back in busi­ness with “I’m With You,” their first new album since 2006’s “Stadium Ar­cadium” and while they still bring the kick, some­thing’s missing. 
In 2009, the Peppers lost guitarist John Frus­ciante, and his absence leaves otherwise solid tracks with a little more to be desired. His chops, owing as much to D. Boon as to Hendrix, consistently anchored the wild group known for bass-player Flea’s off the wall funk and singer Anthony Kie­dis’s tendency to fall into non-sensical pseudo-rap. His licks were creative and catchy enough to make something special out of even the most down-beat ballads, and his presence is missed. 
Replacement guitarist Josh Klinghoffer does an admirable job trying to fill such big shoes, but his playing is a bit more sub­dued. Klinghoffer doesn’t bring the memorable riffs that make older songs like “Under the Bridge” or “Scar Tissue” instantly recognizable. However, on the album’s funkier tracks, like “Goodbye Hooray,” he keeps up well and keeps it tight, which is impressive given the other Peppers’ twenty plus years of prac­tice with each other. 
The album’s lead single “The Adventures of Rain Dance Maggie” is one of the songs that could ben­efit from a Frusciante lick but is a prime example of the Chili Peppers doing what they do best. With funky sing speak verses and the kind of sing along chorus the group is known for, the track is sure to be­come a favorite among the group’s repertoire. 
Thematically the song is the spiritual successor to “Dani California,” the title character Maggie being another of Kiedis’s ethe­real women whose stories become displays of his lyr­ical prowess. In this same way much of the album is a continuation of themes and ideas, both lyrical and musical, explored on other RHCP albums, but it is generally more mature in outlook. Whether that’s a good thing is up for de­bate. 

One striking example of the group’s maturity comes from the standout track “Brendan’s Death Song.” Written about the recently deceased Bren­dan Mullen, one of the key players in the LA punk scene who gave the Pep­pers their first big break, the track builds from a somber funeral march to all-out jam. 
Lyrically, the song is one of the group’s best, and it benefits from Klinghoffer’s driving guitar, cleverly kept in the back of the mix by Rick Rubin, who keeps up his collaboration with the group going back to “Blood Sugar Sex Magik.” 
Other notable tracks in­clude “Police Station” and “Happiness Loves Compa­ny,” the former of which is another great example of the group’s lyrical matu­rity while the latter prob­ably has a better hook for the chorus than the lead single, and perhaps the strongest hook on the al­bum. 
The Red Hot Chili Pep­pers take the departure of a crucial member in stride and have managed to put out a very solid if not ex­actly flashy album that is concise and consistent es­pecially compared to the sprawling “Stadium Arca­dium.” While fans of the group’s older wilder punk-funk might see this as yet another disappointment, rock ‘n’ roll fans who have kept up with group’s evo­lution over the years will be more than satisfied. 
Contact Ross Finney at trfinney@nd.edu 

Maps & Atlases Subkirke 
8:30 p.m. $10 advance, $12 at door 



Chicanitas: Small Paintings from the Cheech Marin Collection The Snite Museum of Art 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Free 
On display through Nov. 13, these paintings, which celebrate the Mexican-Amer­ican culture and heritage, fo­cus less on politics and social issues and more on emotions and internal expression. 
Wet Hot American Summer The Browning Cinema at DPAC 
11:59 p.m. $3 for students 
The comedic cult classic about a summer camp in 1981 features some famous faces (before they became famous) as the staff, includ­ing Amy Poehler, Paul Rudd, Bradley Cooper, David Hyde Pierce and Elizabeth Banks. 
Men’s Soccer Alumni Fields 2 p.m. Free 
With a win over Dayton and a loss to St. Louis last weekend, the No. 17 Irish men will host the Bucknell Bison at Alumni Fields, fresh off a game against Denver.  Lend your support and cheer the Irish on to victory! 


By Neil Mathieson 
Scene Writer 
One of the most intensely debated films of the summer, “The Tree of Life,” has finally arrived at Notre Dame. It will play at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC) this weekend as part of Nanovic Institute Film Series. The film has gained both lofty praise and harsh scrutiny from critics and audiences alike. But after winning the Palme d’Or, the highest award of The Cannes Film Festival, “Tree of Life” has certified itself as an artistic achievement. 
While this sort of success is usu­ally welcomed, director Terence Malick (“The New World”) is not one for the limelight. He detests being interviewed and is very private about his work. Even though he has only made five films in the last 38 years, he is recognized as one of the most influential directors.  However, one needs only to look at his pedigree with films such as “Days of Heaven” and “The Thin Red Line” to identify a master at work. 
The film community has long awaited “The Tree of Life,” which took a decade for Malick to produce, partly because the film’s complex non-linear narrative took so much time to compose. The first half of the story focuses on the forma­tion of the universe. The audience wit­nesses the dazzling formation of the so­lar system and the development of earth from microorganisms to dinosaurs. In order to get the required shots, Malick painstakingly sent his crew around the globe to capture mesmerizing footage of earth’s natural wonders. The results are breathtaking and even critics who dis­liked the film recognized the cinematog­raphy’s brilliance. 

In the second half we are transported to a small town in Texas in the 1950s. Here, a young boy named Jack comes of age in a household controlled by a domi­neering father, played with understated brilliance by Brad Pitt, and a loving mother portrayed by Jessica Chastain. Jack struggles to balance his parents’ conflicting spirits within himself. This internal confusion leaves Jack with con­tempt for the external world around him. He questions God’s benevolence and existence, which subsequently calls his faith in humanity into question. 
Sean Penn plays a grown up Jack. No longer living in Texas, he is now in an urban metropolis littered with skyscrap­ers, steel and reflective glass. The scenes with Sean Penn begin and end the film. In this future we learn that something one of Jack’s younger brothers did leaves even more philosophical questions un­answered for a tortured older Jack. 
“The Tree of Life” is an unorthodox and complex visual feast. Most of this is achieved by Malick’s intricate editing, which constantly whirls us around his cinematic Eden. In fact, one theatre in Italy played the reels in reverse, showing the second half of the movie before the first, for a week. However, not a single audience member mentioned the error due to the film’s abstract style. 
Certain theatres even had signs telling customers that this was not a regular Brad Pitt film and all sales were final. Some viewers expected “Mr. and Mrs. Smith” and instead got subject mat­ter usually found in the writings of Ni­etzsche and Aquinas. As Roger Ebert 
On campus 
What: “Tree of Life” Where: Browning Cinema When: Friday, Sept. 9, 6:30 and 9:30 p.m., Saturday, Sept. 10, 3, 6 and 9 p.m. 
stated, “The only other film I.ve ever seen with this boldness of vision was Ku­brick’s .2001: A Space Odyssey. and it lacked Malick’s fierce evocation of hu­man feeling.. 
“The Tree of Life” is without question one of the most stunning, cryptic and profound works in years. 
Contact Neil Mathieson at nmathies@nd.edu 
ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u ClaSSiFiEDS Thursday, September 8, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Open road ahead 
This is the fourth of a new Observer feature. A series of 10 Observer sportswriters will have columns appear in this space on a bi-weekly rotation. Hopefully some of these writers will grab your attention, and you’ll know when and where to find more of their thoughts. 
Despite lockouts, substance-abuse scandals and the oc­casional players’ strike (sorry 1994 Montreal Expos), the U.S. professional sports peck­ing order has rema ined relatively constant over the last two decades. 
ESPN and the NFL have en­joyed foot­ball’s dom­inance as the most­wat ched and most-attended sports league in the world, as the league averages over 68,000 fans in attendance each game (almost double the attendance for an average Eng­lish Premier League contest). 
Baseball reigns supreme in the summer, although the loss of Jon Miller and Joe Morgan from Sunday Night Baseball has certainly taken away some of its magic (c’mon, you know you miss hearing about Morgan’s career batting average against the Cubs coming from the man himself). 
The next two are a bit more difficult. The NBA and the 

Chris Masoud 
Assistant Managing Editor 
game in the United Center and received more than a few dirty looks (go figure). 
Rounding out the list are the MLS, professional tennis, and the occasional golf major, in no particular order. 
But where’s NASCAR? 
The National Association of Stock Car Auto Racing is the second-most watched sport by television viewers, only behind football, yet I’ve never actually watched a full race. I’m almost ashamed to call myself a cul­tured sports fan. 
Until this week, I was general­ly in the “don’t want to see com­pany-branded cars go around in a circle” camp. But after watch­ing the finish to the Atlanta Mo­tor Speedway on Tuesday, I’ve reconsidered. 
With only four laps to go, 
veteran Jeff Gordon battled 
standings leader Jimmy John­
son to earn his third win of 
the season by 0.598 seconds. 
It was a dogfight till the end, 
with both cars side-by-side 
to the finish, à la Talladega Nights. 
Consider the following 10-sec­ond excerpt from the telecast, minus the Southern drawl: 
“Oh, Gordon really sideways right there.” 
“Ah Jimmy fighting right up to his back bumper.” 
“You can see Jimmy just walk the car up the track.” 
“Now did we talk earlier about another fantastic finish here in Atlanta?” 
“Yessir.” 
So if you’re looking for some­one to replace Tiger Woods or Roger Federer, what other sport has a domi­nant figure 

NHL target Until this week, I was like five-time audie nces generally in the “don’t Sprint Cup on different want to see company-Series cham­ends of the branded cars go around pion Jimmy 
demographic Johnson? The 
in a circle” camp. 
spectrum, but the average attendance rates are basically the same (17,520 and 17,265, re­spectively). The two sports have basically the same stadium ca­pacities and playoff structures, which often make the sports connoisseur’s life quite difficult in May. 
I give the NHL the edge simply because, in my experience, no sport has even come close to the excitement of watching a hockey game live. That, and hockey fans are generally the most knowl­edgeable, territorial fans I have encountered. 
Draped in my black and teal, I feared for my life in Detroit for Game 4 of the Western Confer­ence Semifinals and loved every minute of it. Before that, I wore my Michael Jordan old-school 23 to a Blackhawks-Canucks debut of Dan­
ica Patrick in 2012 only makes NASCAR that much more compelling to watch. 
The next Sprint Cup Series event is the Richmond Interna­tional Raceway Saturday at 7:30 
p.m. on ABC, which gives you a full 30 minutes to give NASCAR a chance before you flip to ESPN. If you’re sold, the series comes to Chicago on Sunday, Sept. 18 for the Chicagoland Speedway at 2 p.m. 
I have a cooler, two George Foremans, lawn chairs and a li­cense to tailgate. Who’s driving? 
Chris Masoud is a senior busi­ness major. He can be reached at cmasoud@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this In­side Column are those of the au­thor and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Rookie LB to start for Giants 
Associated Press 

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
— Rookie middle linebacker Greg Jones has come a long way in a short time with the New York Giants. 
The sixth-round draft pick from Michigan State spent most of training camp work­ing with the third-team de­fense. 
Following the final cuts over the weekend and a major knee injury to Jonathan Goff on Monday, Jones seemingly is now the starting middle line­backer for the season opener against the Washington Red­skins Sunday. 
Jones had a chance to work with the first team for the first time on Wednesday and en­joyed himself. 
“It was cool just being out there,” Jones said. “It is a dif­ferent type of motivation. Ev­erybody is so positive and no­body is saying: ‘You’re only a rookie.’ Everybody is just say­ing you can do this, just be­lieve in yourself.” 
Jones has no doubts that he can play the MIKE position. He left college as the Spar­tans’ all-time leader in tackles for loss with 46 1/2, and was third all time in tackles with 
465. He led the team or tied for team lead in tackles in 31 of his last 39 games. 
However, he is taking over for Goff on short no­tice. Goff injured his 
right knee r unn i n g into an of­f e n s i v e l i n e m a n in practice on Monday and the team didn’t  “It was cool just being out there. It is a different type of motivation. Everybody is so positive and nobody is saying: ‘You’re only a rookie.’ Everybody is just saying you can do this, just believe in yourself.”  “This is ad­versity,” vet­eran safety Deon Grant said. “This is the NFL. Deal­ing with what we’re dealing with, I don’t  
learn he had torn his ACL un- Greg Jones Giants’ linebacker  think it’s hap­pened like that in a long time.  
til Tuesday  I know I can’t  
afternoon.  remember  my  
J o n e s  whole  career,  
d i d  n  ’  t  but  that’s  ad- 

know about it until linebacker versity. You see what Green coach Jim Herrmann gave him Bay went through last year. a call and told him it was time The next guy has to make sure to step up. he picks it up.” 
“Jon (Goff) always said just Jones is next up at middle be ready,” Jones said. “All of a linebacker and Grant has been sudden, wow! I didn’t see that impressed with him. coming, I feel ready for it.” “Football is his No. 1 pri-
So do his teammates who ority and he can play,” Grant put on a brave face with this said. “When you got that, latest injury. Since train-that’s phenomenal, but he’s a ing camp opened, the Giants (mean) dog at heart, and that’s have lost cornerbacks Bruce what you need for any kind of Johnson and Terrell Thomas player, but especially at that with Achilles’ tendon injuries, MIKE linebacker.” backup linebacker Clint Sin-Linebacker Michael Boley tim with a knee injury, second-said it felt a little different round draft pick Marvin Aus-looking toward the middle and tin, a defensive tackle, with a torn pectoral muscle and now Goff, who started all 16 games in the middle last season. 
First-round draft pick Prince Amukamara, a cornerback, broke his foot early in camp, and two-time Pro Bowl defen­sive end Osi Umemyiora is still 
rehabilitating his knee after arthroscopic surgery. 
seeing Jones. The only other time he has lined up next to Jones was in walkthroughs. 
“I don’t think we need to change much with Greg step­ping in,” Boley said. “He has been pretty steady at that spot in the preseason and made a lot of plays.” 
It is conceivable that the Gi­ants can come up with a gim­mick defense that will allow the team to limit Jones’ ex­posure against the Redskins, much like last season when they used Grant in three safety alignments. If not, safety An­trel Rolle said the defense will have Jones’ back. 
“Jon Goff was definitely coming into his own. He was controlling the defense,” Rolle said. “It’s unfortunate we have to move on without him. Greg is going to have to do the job. He is a young guy and now he has to put on his big boy pads.” 
The Giants had about 10 free agent linebackers in for tryouts, including former Gi­ants Chase Blackburn and Kawika Mitchell. Blackburn, who visited teammates in the locker room on Wednesday, was the backup middle line­backer last season, and their special teams captain. 
If Jones starts Sunday, he would be the first Giants rook­ie defensive player to start on opening day since Barry Co-field in 2006. 
The injury also is giving free agent Mark Herzlich some time at middle linebacker. He last played that position as a freshman at Boston College. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? True, we love life, not because we 
TICKETS PERSONAL I never blame myself when I’m not It would be nice to think that since 
are used to living, but because we 
hitting. I just blame the bat and if it I was 14 times have changed. 

Don’t go it alone. are used to loving. There is always 
keeps up, I change bats. After all, Relationships have become more some madness in love, but there 

if I know it isn’t my fault that I’m sophisticated. Females less cruel. 

BUYING SEASON TICKETS BIBLE STUDY GROUP. is also always some reason in 
not hitting, how can I get mad at Skins thicker. Instincts more 

Notre Dame has many resources in madness. 
myself? -Yogi Berra developed. But there seems to be place to assist you. 

Art, as far as it is able, follows an element of that afternoon in 

/ANY GAMES  If you or someone you love needs There is no lighter burden, nor nature, as a pupil imitates his everything that’s happened to me 
10 lesson covering entire bible in 1 confidential support or assistance, more agreeable, than a pen. 
master; thus your art must be, as it since. All my romantic stories are a 

hour sessions. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 
were, God’s grandchild. scrambled verion of that first one. 

or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
It is more honorable to be raised For more information, visit to a throne than to be born to one. O conscience, upright and -- Rob Gordon ND’s website at: http:// Fortune bestows the one, merit stainless, how bitter a sting to thee 
-GAs only. Call 574-277-1659 Call Tom 574-876-8928 pregnancysupport@nd.edu obtains the other. -Petrarch is a little fault! -Dante Happy birthday Miller! 

Thursday, September 8, 2011 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
NFL 

Collins takes Manning’s place, streak ends 
Associated Press for the Colts without No. 18 at the 
controls. 
INDIANAPOLIS — The num-Giants quarterback Eli Man­bers tell it all. Exactly 227 con-ning, Peyton’s younger brother, secutive starts. Eleven playoff now holds the longest active appearances. Eleven double-digit streak for a quarterback with 110 winning seasons. Eight division starts, including postseason play. crowns. Two AFC titles. One Su-He said he had not talked to his per Bowl championship. brother for a few weeks. 
Peyton Manning has quarter-“I know he was dealing with a backed the Indianapolis Colts ev-lot,” the younger Manning said. “I ery Sunday since Sept. 6, 1998. He don’t know how he is feeling and won’t this weekend. what’s going on. I know he wants 
Manning will be in street to be out there. He gave his all and clothes when the team opens the he will give his all to be back out season at Houston, still recover-there.” ing from neck surgery while Ker-The Colts had hoped the ry Collins starts in his place. 35-year-old Manning would re­
“It’s going to be a little differ-cover while developing a backup ent without Peyton,” coach Jim plan. Collins, who was brought 
Caldwell  said.  out  of  retire­ 
“He’s  one  of  ment just two  
a kind. When  weeks ago  to  
you look across our league, most teams  “We always knew it was a chance. That’s  run the Colts’ p a s s -h e a v y offense, has  
have had quar­ what doubtful means.  been preparing  
terbacks that have missed time. Ours has just been high- You always have to prepare for the worst and hope for the best.”  as though he would start. “I expect to run the of­ 
ly unusual.” The streak is  Jim Caldwell  fense, bottom line,” he said.  
the second lon- Colts coach  “Make  plays  
gest in history  when  they’re  
among  NFL  there, be smart  
quarterbacks  with the ball,  
behind  only  make  good  

Brett Favre, whose 297-game run reads, good decisions, get us into -- 321 including the postseason— the right plays when the situa­ended last season just before he tion calls for it. I’m going into this called it a career. week thinking I’m going to run 
Colts left tackle Anthony Cas-the offense as best I can.” tonzo was 10 years old when Defensive end Dwight Freeney Manning’s streak began. Veteran said the Colts still expect to play center Jeff Saturday has never at a championship level. snapped the ball to another quar-“Obviously, we’re not used to terback to start a game during his not having him (Manning) out pro career. In fact, no player on there,” Freeney said. “He’s a great Indy’s roster has participated in player. There are 52 other guys on a regular-season or playoff game the team, and one guy does not win the game.” 
The Texans don’t expect an easy game because Manning won’t play. They are familiar with Collins, who played for rival Ten­nessee last year. 
“I think he’s a hell of a player,” Texans coach Gary Kubiak said of Collins. “He’s been successful against us. My focus right now is on our team. We’ve got to get ourselves ready to play. It doesn’t matter who you play, or whatever, it matters how you play in this business. We’ve got to prepare to get ready to win a game.” 
Manning had been listed as doubtful for the game, but losing him for any time is a shock to Indy fans, not to mention his team­mates. Not only has the four-time NFL MVP never missed a start, he’s rarely missed practice. 
“To say I am disappointed in not being able to play is an un­derstatement,” Manning said in a release from the team. “The best part about football is being out there on the field playing with my teammates. It will be tough not to be out there playing for the orga­nization and our fans. I simply am not healthy enough to play, and I am doing everything I can to get my health back. The team will do fine without me, and I know for sure that I will miss them much more than they miss me.” 
Manning had neck surgery to repair a nerve May 23, but the recovery has taken much lon­ger than the expected 6-8 weeks that would have put him back on the field for the start of training camp. Instead, he started camp on the physically unable to per­form list and wasn’t activated un­til last Monday. 
He did limited work at practice last week, which led to complaints about back pain. The team issued a statement saying that team doc­tors had re-evaluated Manning and instructed him to stop prac­ticing while he undergoes more tests. No additional surgery has been scheduled. 
Caldwell said the bad news only became clear Wednesday. 
“We always knew it was a chance,” he said. “That’s what doubtful means. You always have to prepare for the worst and hope for the best.” 
Caldwell said he had confidence in Collins, who was lured out of retirement by the Colts as Man­ning’s recovery dragged on. 
“The guy’s thrown for 40,000 yards. He can throw the ball,” Caldwell said. 
Collins has made 177 career starts and been to two Pro Bowls. He took the Carolina Panthers to the 1996 NFC Championship game and the New York Giants to the Super Bowl after the 2000 season. He helped Tennessee post the AFC’s best record (13-3) in 2008. 

Still, he has had less than two weeks to learn Indy’s offense, which has traditionally called plays at the line of scrimmage. He didn’t even play with Pro Bowlers Reggie Wayne or Dallas Clark in a preseason game, and the Colts will open the season with three new starters on the offensive line and a fourth, former right tackle Ryan Diem, moving inside to guard. 
He also now carries the expec­tations of fans hoping Indy can become the first host team to play in the Super Bowl in February. Collins says he’s ready to step in. 
“I really do feel like I’ve come a long way in a short period of time,” he said. “Now that we’re into game planning, things are a little more focused and a little more centralized on what we’re trying to accomplish. My comfort level is still pretty high.” 


page 16 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Thursday, September 8, 2011 
MLB 
Yankees game to have 9/11 tribute 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Mariano Ri­vera remembers being home that day on what started out as a beautiful morning. His mother-in-law was watching the news and he heard her screaming: The first plane had hit the World Trade Center. Then he saw the second one do the same. 
Jorge Posada was at the hos­pital with his ailing son when he heard the commotion in the hallway and thought “the worst was coming.” 
Derek Jeter recalled meeting all those families and firefight­ers who lost loved ones. 
“It was hard,” Rivera said, “for everybody.” 
Three longtime stars with the New York Yankees reflected on 9/11 as the team marked the 10-year anniversary with a ceremony Wednesday before a game against the Baltimore Orioles. 
Former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld took part in the on-field tribute to soldiers, rescue workers and victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. The salute was held four days early at Yankee Stadium because the team will be in the middle of a long road trip Sunday. 
“What I remember of those days is that the whole country got together. That’s a beautiful thing,” Rivera said at a pre­game news victims of Sept. 11. Another FDNY vocalist, Frank Pizarro, sang “God Bless America” dur­ing the seventh-inning stretch, a ritual the Yankees have con­tinued at every home game since baseball resumed in the wake of the attacks. 
On the mound with Petry to throw out the ceremonial first pitch was longtime Yankees ticket operations representa­tive Hank Grazioso, who lost both his sons at the World Trade Center on 9/11. 
Thinking back 10 years, Jeter and Rivera recalled all the suffering families and res­cue workers they met in the days after the attacks. Posada recalled that he was initially unable to visit firehouses or ground zero with his team­mates because he was still tending to his son, Jorge Jr., who had an infection following an operation on his skull. 
“It was uncomfortable,” Jeter said. “We’re baseball players. People look at us as heroes, but we got to meet these fami­lies and firefighters and EMS workers. Those were the true heroes at the time. We met the families, and what do you say to them? 
“It probably benefited us just as much — maybe even more so — than the families. We got an opportunity to hear how much we meant to these families, how we had given them some-

conference. “We’re baseball players. thing to cheer “I wish it was People look at us as for for at least still like that, three hours 
heroes, but we got to 
but it’s not. a day. It was 
meet these families and 
The whole an experience 
firefighters and EMS 
country, the I’ll always re­
workers. Those were the 
whole U.S. got member, but 
true heroes at the time.” 
together and it was uncom­it was amaz-fortable at the ing. Every-Derek Jeter b eg i n n i ng,” body helping Yankee shortstop he said. 
everyone, it didn’t mat­ter what race or color you were. We were here for one na­tion and fighting and trying to move forward and that’s exact­ly what we did.” 
The ceremony began with a message from first lady Mi­chelle Obama on the big vid­eo board in center field and lasted about 15 minutes. The team asked fans to be in their seats 35 minutes before the first pitch, but only a few thou­sand made it in time on a rainy weekday afternoon. 
The previous night, the teams waited out a rain delay that lasted more than 4 hours to play a game that ended at 
2:15 a.m. 
The Yankees recognized sev­eral wounded soldiers Wednes­day, including Sgt. 1st Class Leroy Petry, who was awarded a Medal of Honor by President Barack Obama on July 12 for his brave actions in Afghani­stan to protect comrades in the 2008 firefight that cost him his right hand. 
As other players limbered up in the outfield, New York right fielder Nick Swisher greeted all the soldiers with handshakes and gave a big hug to Petry be­fore jumping in for a photo with the group behind home plate. 
New York City firefighter Re­gina Wilson sang the national anthem and there was a mo­ment of silence to honor all the On the field, 
Jeter, Rivera 
and Posada 
were all key members of the 2001 Yankees team that lost to the Arizona Diamondbacks in a thrilling World Series. 
“We did something pretty special,” Posada said. “We healed a little bit and I think that’s what we remember about the time. It was a tough time — still is. People came to the sta­dium to have a little bit of joy. They helped us, too, because they were loud. We wanted to go to the World Series and we kept going because of the peo­ple of New York.” 
Rivera had another way to describe that postseason run, when the Yankees fell just shy of a fourth straight champion­ship with a 3-2 loss in Game 7 of the World Series. 
“I don’t call it magical, I call it a blessing,” he said. “To me, that’s the best World Series we played. We fell short, but we did everything in our power to win the World Series and give New York what they deserved. To me, that’s the satisfaction. There was satisfaction even though we lost, because we fought.” 
Rivera recalled giving his Rolaids Relief Man Award that season to the New York City fire department. 
“I save games, they save lives,” he said. “That’s what real heroes are all about.” 
MLB 

Moscoso takes no-hit bid to 8th 
Associated Press 

OAKLAND, Calif. — Guill­ermo Moscoso held Kansas City hitless until rookie Salvador Perez singled with two outs in the eighth inning, and the Oak­land Athletics beat the Royals 7-0 Wednesday. 
Moscoso (8-8) wound up al­lowing two hits in 8 2-3 innings. The right-hander walked one and struck out four in his 18th major league start. 
Moscoso set an Oakland re­cord by retiring 30 consecutive hitters — the final 13 against Se­attle last Friday and the first 17 against the Royals. He walked Kansas City’s Alcides Escobar with two outs in the sixth. 
Perez broke up the no-hit bid by lining a clean, opposite-field field single to right. 
Moscoso recorded 16 of his outs on fly balls to the outfield, 10 to center fielder Coco Crisp. Crisp’s diving catch on Billy But­ler’s sinking liner ended the first inning. 
Butler’s eight-pitch at-bat in the ninth ended with A’s third baseman Scott Sizemore mak­ing two errors on the play. That prompted Oakland manager Bob Melvin to bring in Fautino De Los Santos, who got the final out on one pitch. 
Jemile Weeks had four hits and drove in a run for the A’s, who won for the fifth time in seven games. Sizemore doubled home two runs and Hideki Mat­sui, Josh Willingham and Adam Rosales also drove in runs. 
Bruce Chen (10-7) allowed six runs on eight hits in his 6 1-3 in­nings. 
Crisp, after missing four games with a sore right foot, doubled in the first inning, stole his 40th base and scored on Will­ingham’s sacrifice fly. 
The A’s added another run in the fourth when left fielder Alex Gordon misplayed Michael Taylor’s fly ball into a two-base error, allowing Kurt Suzuki to score. 
Earlier, Taylor lost a hit when he was thrown at first base by strong-armed right fielder Jeff Francoeur. The 9-3 putout was just the fifth in the AL since 1974. 
The Royals have a major league-best 48 outfield assists, 25 of them at home plate. Fran­coeur has 95 career outfield as­sists, most in the majors since he made his debut in 1995. A’s infielder Brandon Allen was giv­en the day off. Melvin said he’ll wait until after Thursday’s off-day to decide if he wants to use an extra pitcher into the rota­tion, with pitcher Josh Outman the leading candidate. Pitcher Brandon McCarthy (8-7, 3.41) will start for the A’s at the Texas Rangers on Friday. McCarthy has thrown back-to-back com­plete games, including a three-hit shutout in his last start. Pitcher Luke Hochevar (10-10, 
4.76) starts Thursday’s game in Seattle for the Royals. Hochevar will pitch at Safeco Field for the first time. He’s coming off an im­pressive victory in which he did not allow an earned run in eight innings. He’s 5-2 with a 3.51 ERA since the All-Star break. Crisp became the 10th A’s player to record 40 stolen bases in a season. 


Thursday, September 8, 2011 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 17 
NFL 

Browns counting on McCoy in season opener 
Associated Press quickly. 
Rewind to last season’s open-
BEREA, Ohio — Colt McCoy er. The former Texas star was wears No. 12. For the Cleveland a raw, out-of-sight, out-of-mind Browns, he’s also No. 10. rookie running Cleveland’s scout 
It’s a number they’d like to team in practice. While Delhom­stay stuck on. me and backup Seneca Wallace 
On Sunday against Cincinnati, took all the snaps, McCoy stood McCoy will become the 10th dif-to the side waiting and wonder­ferent quarterback to start a sea-ing if his time would ever come. son opener for the Browns since Buried on the depth chart, 1999, an astonishing statistic McCoy was inactive when the and perhaps the single biggest Browns traveled to Tampa Bay reason the franchise has failed in Week 1. But things changed miserably during an expansion in a hurry. Delhomme severely era of losses. McCoy follows Ty sprained his ankle against the Detmer, Tim Couch, Kelly Hol-Buccaneers, Wallace went down comb, Jeff Garcia, Trent Dilfer, with same injury in Week 5, and Charlie Frye, Derek Anderson, suddenly McCoy was thrust into Brady Quinn and Jake Delhom-a starting role few believed he me as quarterbacks to begin the was ready to handle. year as Cleveland’s starter. “He was kind of thrown into 
“I hope it stays like this for a the fire,” Browns first-year while,” McCoy said Wednesday. coach Pat Shurmur said. 
In the NFL, quarterback con-His personal inferno began in sistency is vital to success. With Pittsburgh, where McCoy made a revolving door at the game’s his first career start against most impor-the Steelers tant position, and in front of it’s no wonder their Terrible the Browns Towel-waving have only fans. The night made the play-“I thought, this poor kid. before the offs once and I hope he’s praying.” game, McCoy 
lost at least 10 stood up at a games nine meeting and 
Sheldon Brown 
times in 12 told his team-
Browns cornerback 
years. Cleve-mates not to land has been worry, he was searching for a ready to han­leader to guide dle the job. them from the Browns cor­dismal dark-nerback Shel­ness and back to respectability. don Brown feared for McCoy. 
McCoy, who showed grit and “I thought, this poor kid,” toughness in eight starts in 2010, Brown said. “I hope he’s pray-just might be the one. ing.” 
And this season, anyway, he’ll But McCoy proved he belonged, get the chance to succeed or fail. completing 23 of 33 passes for 
McCoy’s rise from third-round 281 yards despite being sacked draft pick to starter happened five times and pressured numer­ous others. It was there, at the confluence of Pittsburgh’s three rivers that many of Cleveland’s players became convinced they had found their leader — at last. 
“He wasn’t scared,” Brown said. “That’s one of the tough­est defenses in the National Football League and he went in there and he held his own. Then we put him in there against New Orleans, New England. Go back to some of the games he played and you look at his aura on the field and his demeanor, you just know that if you surround him with the players that can make plays for him — he’s not going to turn the ball over, he’s going to make the correct reads and the better part is, if he makes those mistakes, he’ll work his tail off to fix it. 



“That’s when you know you have a guy.” 
Shurmur thinks so, too. 
Cleveland’s fifth coach since ‘99, Shurmur has been im­pressed with everything about McCoy. During the labor lock­out, it was McCoy who organized practices in Austin, Texas. At those workouts, dubbed “Camp Colts” by his teammates, Mc­Coy and the Browns took their first initial steps in learning Shurmur’s West Coast offense, a passer friendly system the team feels perfectly suits McCoy’s ac­curate — if not strong — right arm. 
McCoy also took it upon him­self to visit Brett Favre, hoping a few days in Mississippi picking the brain of the former league MVP would help him better un­derstand the new offense. McCoy came to camp prepared and then played extremely well in Cleve­land’s three exhibition games. 
“He basically did what we wanted and now the next step is to do it for 60 minutes in a regular-season game,” Shurmur said. “He has been passing the tests as we’ve gone along, and Sunday will be the next test.” 
McCoy has done his home­work. 
“Now is where it counts,” he said. 
Composed whether he’s call­ing a play in the huddle, facing a blitz or surrounded by cameras at his locker, McCoy insists he’s not feeling any added pressure as he embarks on his second season as a pro. A coach’s son, this is what he’s been groomed to do since he was a kid. 
Now is when the fun starts. 
“I’ve come a long ways,” Mc­Coy said. “But I’ve still got plenty of work to do, no question. This team is ready to start, ready for the regular season. This is where it starts counting. For us, we’ve put in a lot of hours, a lot of time. We’ve worked hard togeth­er, now I think we kind of know some of the things we’re good at, some of the things we’re not as good at. Those things we’ll keep working on. But I think we’re ready to put a plan together and go see what happens.” 


page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Thursday, September 8, 2011 
Waldrum 
continued from page 24 
shots on goal. The Irish were able to compensate for those numbers Friday, crushing Tulsa in both categories, 39-4 and 16-2, respectively. 
However, with upcoming games against powerhouses Santa Clara and Stanford, all the pieces will need to be in place to maintain 


“As far as individual no 
those kinds about the 
players, they’re doing 
of numbers. talent of his 
great, but I’m not sure 
Wald rum backfield . said that al-we’ve come together His concern though he cohesively yet.” remains tak­was pleased ing that indi­overall with Randy Waldrum vidual talent the play of and building 
Irish coach 
his individu­al defenders, the defense as a unit still lacked cohesion, possibly be­cause of an inconsistent line­up. 
“[Sophomore] Kecia [Mor­way] couldn’t play because she had a concussion on Fri­day so [freshman] Taylor [Schneider] had to step in,” Waldrum said. “She stepped in and played great, but the fact that we haven’t had the same three players in the same spots for three out of our five games so far might be having an effect on the defense playing together and being in sync.” 
In addition to Schneider, Waldrum said freshman Sam­my Scofield has had a defi­nite impact on Notre Dame’s defense this year. Adding to a defensive staff that includes seniors Schuveiller and Molly Campbell, junior Jazmin Hall and Morway, Wa ld r u m said he has doubts 
a unified de­
fense. 
“As far as 
indi vidua l players, they’re doing great, but I’m not sure we’ve come together cohesively yet,” he said. 

Waldrum said he has full confidence in the ability and potential of his defen­sive squad and expects them will be the two tests that lie to build the type of cohesion ahead this weekend in Cali-that past Irish defenses have fornia. Waldrum believes his experienced. The first step defense is well on its way. 
“We’re usually farther along by now,” he said. “But I believe that this defensive squad will be fantastic by the 
end of the season.” 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 
ished first in the Big East mile race, while also helping the dis-
Rae 
tance medley relay team to a 
Big East title. Rae ran a 4:08.01 continued from page 24 mile. 
During outdoor track season, Rae, in his first year running Rae won the 1,500-meter run cross country at Notre Dame, in the Big East championship, finished 78th in the NCAAs last clocking in at 3:46.38. year while helping the Irish to “I want to keep winning that a 25th place title,” Rae finish. said. “The 
“I like run-coaches have ning because been stressing 
“I like running because 
it’s very sim-a team title a 
it’s very simple and very 
ple and very lot. This year, 
competitive. It’s one 
competitive,” the goal going 
person versus another 
Rae said. “It’s forward is to one person person, and the only get those ten 
versus anoth-person to blame is you.” points for the er person, and team total.” the only per-Jeremy Rae Using his Big son to blame East champi­
junior 
is you.” onship as a 
Rae was springboard, even more Rae then com-successful during the track sea-peted in nationals, finishing sons, both indoor and outdoor. ninth overall in the 1,500 and During indoor season, Rae fin-earning second team All-Amer­ican honors. The All-American tag marked the 21st consecutive year that the Irish have had a member with that distinction. 
He was not, however, at full strength due to a lingering Achilles tendon injury. 
“It was a bothersome injury throughout outdoor season and frustrating at nationals know­ing it wasn’t my best,” Rae said. “When I’m healthy, it’s com­pletely different. I expect to be in the top-five this year.” 
The injury has also put much of Rae’s cross country season in jeopardy. While he may be able to race at the Notre Dame Invi­tational on Sept. 30, Rae said he will probably start racing at the conference championships. De­spite his absence, Rae still be­lieves his team is a strong one. 

“The guys look really good,” Rae said. “We have a solid five been the goal for us and we’re will host the National Catholic guys that will be good for us. building towards that.” Championships on Sept. 16. There is no reason we cannot be The Irish are ranked 23rd in the top 10 in the NCAA. Since in the nation and 4th in the Contact Matthew DeFranks at mde­our first team meeting, that has Great Lakes region. Notre Dame frank@nd.edu 


each of her three full seasons. buses, work on planes and just 
She began this season in the be able to get stuff done.” 
same fashion and credited her Now with over three full 
improvement to the leaders in years of college under her belt, continued from page 24 the program. Silva said it is different to think 
“I definitely think I see per-of herself as a senior, but she likely finish much higher. Silva sonal improvement,” Silva said. enjoys sharing her wealth of said she didn’t realize her place “I can see myself freshman year knowledge with younger team-in the record books. — and I can see the freshmen mates. 
“I was actually surprised now — and see how much I’ve “When I really think about to find out,” she said. “I don’t grown. Being it, it’s a little follow personal statistics too in the pro-weird,” Silva closely. Obviously I want to do gram, we be-said of be-
Silva 

“I was actually surprised 
the best I can, but I never look come students ing one of 
to find out. I don’t follow 
that closely at stats.” of the game, the veterans. 
personal statistics too 
Silva said that while her dedi-especially “You have a 
closely. Obviously I 
cation over the years has paid playing at this perspective off in the form of some impres-high level. want to do the best I on what the sive career results, she gains Having all the can, but I never look older seniors more satisfaction from wins on training re-that closely at stats. ” were doing the court. ally pays off.” when you “It’s nice to know that [the Silva said were a fresh-
Frenchy Silva 
career statistics] are an affir-she has also man, all the 
senior 
mation of hard work counting seen personal things that for something, because we all growth in an-go on behind put in a lot of work,” Silva said. other chal-the scenes. I “Volleyball is such a team sport, lenging aspect of collegiate enjoy having all the experience though. It always means more sports — juggling academic re-that I do so I can help them with to me to be an important part of sponsibilities. things that are second nature to the team success. That’s what I “You learn how to manage me now — what classes to take, look at.” your time really well, especially where to go, things like that.” 
Because of her unselfish being in a fall sport because you dedication to success, Silva has jump right in,” she said. “You Contact Cory Bernard at            enjoyed an increase in output have to know how to work on cbernard@nd.edu 


Thursday, September 8, 2011 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 19 
MLB 

Verlander wins 22nd game as Tigers sweep Tribe 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — Another game slipped away from the Cleveland Indians. The whole series did, in fact. 
Rather than move closer to Detroit, the Indians were swept by the AL Central leaders this week. 
Justin Verlander won his 10th straight start and earned his 22nd victory overall, helped when Victor Martinez hit a late grand slam that sent the Tigers over Cleveland 8-6 Wednesday. 
Three straight losses left the lars Grady Sizemore, Shin-Soo Choo, Michael Brantley, Travis Hafner and Jason Kipnis, as well as starting pitchers Josh Tomlin and Carlos Carrasco. 


“These guys have come back from everything,” Acta said. “If we don’t win (Thursday), it’s not because this series is lin­gering. They’ve gone through worse and they have bounced back.” 
The Tigers are 16-4 since Aug. 19 and have beaten the Indians seven straight times. Detroit swept three games from the Chicago White Sox prior to this series to take command of the division, but Detroit man­ager Jim Leyland isn’t ready to declare his team champions. 
“So far, we’ve met a head-on challenge pretty good,” he said. “I’m still not going to say anything other than we have put ourselves in good position. Have we accomplished some­thing? Absolutely.” 
Masterson (11-9) left after Detroit loaded the bases on two singles around an error in the seventh. 
Joe Smith came on and gave up an RBI single to Miguel Ca­brera that got the Tigers within 4-3. 
Sipp replaced Smith and the switch-hitting Martinez turned around to the right side and hit the first pitch into the left-field seats for his second career slam, both against the Indians. 
Indians 9½ games behind De­troit. 
“We just got swept,” said first baseman Shelley Duncan, who hit a pair of two-run homers off Verlander. “We’re a little down right now.” 
It’s easy to see why. 
“So far, we’ve met a head-on challenge pretty good. I’m still not going to say anything other than we have put ourselves in a good position. Have we accomplished something? Absolutely.” 
Jim Leyland Tigers manager 
In less than three weeks, Cleve­land has lost eight games in the standings to Detroit, taking the Indians from legitimate con­tenders to playing for pride in the season’s final 22 games. 
“They took care of business and, obviously, we didn’t,” Indi­ans manager Manny Acta said. “They’re doing a great job run­ning away from us and beating us head to head.” 
Verlander (22-5) survived Duncan’s homers, which each gave the Indians a two-run leads. Martinez, who haunted his team the entire series, hit a seventh-inning slam off Tony Sipp that erased Cleveland’s 4-3 lead and capped Detroit’s five-run rally. 
The loss dropped the Indians 
back to .500 (70-70) as they 
begin a 10­
game road trip 
Thursday night 
in Chicago. 
“We lost all 
three games, 
that’s never fun 
no matter who 
you’re play­
ing,” Indians 
starter Justin 
Masterson said. 
“We’re going 
to have to win 
a lot of ball­
games.” 
Said Acta: 
“We can’t give 
up. Things can 
change in a 
week, but you have to start with Day One.” 
The Indians managed to stay in contention despite going ex­tended periods without several key players, including regu­


page 20 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Thursday, September 8, 2011 
MLB 

Orioles defeat Yankees with Reynolds’ RBI single 
Associated Press Nolan Reimold hit a two-run homer off A.J. Burnett and the 
NEW YORK — Eduardo Nunez last-place Orioles took advan­and the Yankees were as sloppy tage of four Yankees errors, as the weather. two by Nunez as he filled in for 
Mark Reynolds hit a tiebreak-Derek Jeter at shortstop. Both ing single in the 11th inning af-teams looked sleepy and slug­ter striking out four times and gish out there — with good rea­the Baltimore Orioles outlasted son, too. New York 5-4 on Wednesday in With few options for a make-another soggy game between up date, they waited out a rain two sleep-deprived teams. delay of 4 hours, 3 minutes on 

“We gave them a lot of their Tuesday night to play a game runs today. That’s the bottom that ended at 2:15 a.m. Yankees line, and that’s why we lost this players rushed home while the game,” Yankees manager Joe Orioles zipped back to their ho-Girardi said. “Even when our tel to get a few precious hours regulars aren’t in there, our of shuteye before heading back defense has been pretty good. to the ballpark Wednesday Today it wasn’t. I don’t know morning for the 1:05 p.m. start. if it was the conditions. I don’t New York tried to extend this know if it was fatigue. I don’t one even longer, putting run-know what it was, but it really ners at the corners with two cost us the game.” outs in the bottom of the 11th. 1-3 scoreless innings and Jim prized prospect Jesus Montero shot with one out in the 11th, 
Less than 11 hours after New Pinch-hitter Eric Chavez, bat-Johnson got three outs for his a two-run single off the fence in allowing Matt Angle to reach York completed a rain-delayed ting for Nunez, hit a low, sharp third save. right. safely. Angle stole second with victory, both squads were back liner toward the middle and The Orioles used eight pitch-The AL East leaders, howev-two outs and Nick Markakis at it. shortstop Robert Andino went ers, the Yankees six. The teams er, had their six-game winning was intentionally walked be-
The showers returned, too, to the ground to knock it down. meet again in Baltimore on streak snapped. Burnett threw fore Reynolds delivered an RBI though the game started on He shoveled to second to nip Thursday at 1:05 p.m. — weath-three wild pitches to raise his single off Hector Noesi (2-1). time and was never interrupted Curtis Granderson for the final er permitting — for the makeup season total to 23, by far the Coming off the late night, other than when the grounds out, ending the game after 4 of an Aug. 27 rainout caused by most in the majors. both managers rested several crew needed to apply diamond hours, 23 minutes. Hurricane Irene. “Every game it seems to be regulars, and the makeshift dust to dry a soaked infield. The “So many good things to-“I think everybody’s going to one pitch, and you get somebody lineups resembled a spring stadium lights came on with day,” Baltimore manager Buck sleep well on the train,” Show-going yard,” he lamented. “But I training game or Triple-A rain falling again in the sixth. Showalter said. “Robby came alter said. kept them in it the best I could. I matchup. Three Yankees hit­
“We don’t have to worry out there and played as good a Burnett, given a reprieve in felt strong, but the 3-1 pitch — I ters wore numbers in the 60s, about making up this game, game at shortstop as you’ll ever New York’s six-man rotation af-can’t give in right there.” and neither team looked like and that’s a good thing,” Gi-see played in these conditions, ter an effective start at Boston New York matched a season a big league bunch as players rardi said. “But physically, it’s too. I can’t tell you how tough last week, allowed four runs in high for errors, and the last one battled wet, windy weather in been a grind. There’s no doubt that is out there.” six-plus innings. Alex Rodri-was especially costly. front of a sparse crowd for the about it.” Pedro Strop (1-1) worked 1 guez hit a two-run double and Nunez couldn’t handle a hot second straight day. 

NHL 

Plane crash kills 43, adds to hockey’s disastrous off-season 
Associated Press 
TUNOSHNA, Russia — A pri­vate jet carrying a Russian professional hockey team to its first game of the season crashed shortly after takeoff Wednes­day, killing 43 people — includ­ing European and former NHL players — in one of the worst aviation disasters in sports his­tory. Two people survived the accident. 
The crash also was the lat­est tragedy to befall the sport of hockey — following the sudden, offseason deaths of three of the NHL’s tough-guy enforcers that has shocked fans. 
The chartered Yak-42 jet was carrying the team — Lokomotiv Yaroslavl — to Minsk, the capi­tal of Belarus, where it was to play Thursday in its opening game of the Kontinental Hock­ey League season. Of the 45 people on board, 36 were play­ers, coaches and team officials; eight were crew. 
The plane apparently strug­gled to gain altitude and then hit a signal tower before break­ing apart along the Volga River near Yaroslavl, 150 miles (240 kilometers) northeast of Mos­cow. One of the blue-and-white plane’s charred engines poked through the surface of the shal­low water. 
“This is the darkest day in the history of our sport,” said Rene Fasel, president of the In­ternational Ice Hockey Federa­tion. “This is not only a Russian tragedy — the Lokomotiv roster included players and coaches from 10 nations.” 
One player — identified as Russian Alexander Galimov — and one unidentified crew member were hospitalized in “very grave” condition, said Al­exander Degyatryov, chief doc­tor at Yaroslavl’s Solovyov Hos­pital. 
Among the dead were Loko­motiv coach and NHL veteran Brad McCrimmon, a Canadian; assistant coach Alexander Kar­povtsev, one of the first Russians to have his name etched on the Stanley Cup as a member of the New York Rangers; and Pavol Demitra, who played for the St. Louis Blues and the Vancouver Canucks and was the Slovakian national team captain. 
Other standouts killed were Czech players Josef Vasicek, Karel Rachunek and Jan Marek, Swedish goalie Stefan Liv, Lat­vian defenseman Karlis Skras­tins and defenseman Ruslan Salei of Belarus. 
Russian NHL star Alex Ovech­kin reflected the anguish that resonated through the sport of hockey when he tweeted: “I’m in shock!!!!!R.I.P.” 
“Though it occurred thou­sands of miles away from our home arenas, this tragedy rep­resents a catastrophic loss to the hockey world — including the NHL family, which lost so many fathers, sons, teammates and friends,” NHL Commission­er Gary Bettman said in a state­ment. 
The NHL already has been mourning three unexpected deaths of players in recent months, including a suicide and an accidental drug overdose. 
The cause of the crash was not immediately apparent, but Russian news agencies cited local officials as saying it may have been due to technical problems. The plane was built in 1993 and belonged to a small Moscow-based company, Yak Service. 
In recent years, Russia and the other former Soviet repub­lics have had some of the world’s worst air traffic safety records. Experts blame the age of the aircraft, weak government con­trols, poor pilot training and a cost-cutting mentality. 
Divers worked feverishly to recover bodies in a search op­eration that lasted well into the night. They struggled to heft the bodies of large, strong athletes in stretchers up the muddy, steep riverbank. 
Swarms of police and rescue crews rushed to Tunoshna, a ramshackle village with small wooden houses and a blue-domed church on the banks of the Volga 10 miles (16 kilome­ters) east of Yaroslavl. 
Resident Irina Prakhova was walking to the village pump for a bucket of water when she saw the plane going down and then heard a loud bang. 
“It was wobbling in flight, it was clear that something was wrong,” said Prakhova. “I saw them pulling bodies to the shore, some still in their seats with seatbelts on.” 
More than 2,000 mourn­ing fans wearing jerseys and scarves and waving team flags gathered in the evening outside Lokomotiv’s arena in Yaroslavl to mourn. Most carried flowers. Riot police stood guard as fans sang to honor the dead athletes. 
Yaroslavl Gov. Sergei Vakhru­kov promised the crowd that the Lokomotiv team would be rebuilt, prompting anger from some fans at a perceived lack of respect for the dead. 
The Kontinental Hockey League has 24 professional teams across Russia, Belarus, Latvia, Kazakhstan and Slo­vakia that draws players from the NHL and European leagues. Lokomotiv is a leading force in Russian hockey and came third in the KHL last year. It was also a three-time Russian League champion in 1997, 2002 and 2003. 
“We will do our best to ensure that hockey in Yaroslavl does not die, and that it continues to live for the people that were on that plane,” said Russian Ice Hockey Federation President Vladislav Tretiak. 
McCrimmon, who took over as coach in May, was most re­cently an assistant coach with the Detroit Red Wings, and played for years in the NHL for Boston, Philadelphia, Detroit, Calgary, Hartford and Phoenix. 
Detroit coach Mike Babcock said McCrimmon “wanted to be a head coach, so he went to Rus­sia to do it.” 
A game Wednesday between Salavat Yulaev and Atlant in the central Russian city of Ufa was called off in mid-match af­ter news of the crash was an­nounced. Russian TV showed an empty arena in Ufa as grief-stricken fans abandoned the stadium. 
Russia was hoping to show­case Yaroslavl as a modern and vibrant city this week at an in­ternational forum attended by heads of state, including Rus­sian President Dmitry Medve­dev, so the crash came as a par­ticularly bitter blow. The forum is being held in the hockey sta­dium. 
Many in the Czech Republic also took the news hard. 
“Jan Marek, Karel Rachunek, and Josef Vasicek contributed greatly to the best successes of our ice hockey in the recent years, first of all to the golden medals at the world champion­ships in 2005 and 2010,” said Tomas Kral, the president of the Czech ice hockey association. “The were excellent players, but also great friends and person­alities. That’s how we will re­member them.” 
Medvedev has announced plans to take aging Soviet-built planes out of service starting next year. The short- and me­dium-range Yak-42 has been in service since 1980 and about 100 are still being used by Rus­sian carriers. 
In past plane crashes involv­ing sports teams, 75 Marshall University football players, coaches, fans and airplane crew died in West Virginia on Nov. 14, 1970, while returning from a game. Thirty-six of the dead were players. 
The entire 18-member U.S. figure skating team died in a crash on their way to the 1961 world championships in Brus­sels, and 18 members of the To­rino soccer team died near Tu­rin, Italy, in a 1949 crash. 
A plane crash in 1950 near the Russian city of Sverdlovsk, now called Yekaterinburg, killed 13 players and officials in the Sovi­et air force’s ice hockey squad. A Munich air crash in 1958 cost eight Manchester United play­ers their lives. 



Thursday, September 8, 2011 The Observer u toDay ndsmcobserver.com | page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 




EXPND JON REPINE JUMBLE HENRy ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Thursday, September 8, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 24 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Honorable mention 
Henderson claims Big East Player of the Week after big wins against Tulsa, Indiana 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
In the midst of the Irish dis­mantling Tulsa and Indiana over the weekend and senior captain Melissa Henderson earning Big East Player of the Week honors, the Notre Dame defense was shielded from the limelight. But with a game-opening goal allowed in each matchup, a critical injury and continuing efforts to incorporate his younger players, Irish coach Randy Waldrum’s focus on the unit has only intensified. 
After sweeping the com­petition at the Notre Dame adidas Invitational, the Irish squad received both offensive and defensive Most Valuable Player awards, the latter go­ing to senior captain Jess Schuveiller, a player Wal­drum cites as his rock in the backfield. 
“Jess has been essential and a great leader for the de­fense,” he said. “But, I think we need to stop relying on her so much, and the other two on the field need to step up as well.” 
Though the defense has been fairly successful so far, only allowing nine goals in five regular season games, Waldrum said there is room for improvement. 
“This weekend we allowed two soft goals,” Waldrum said. “On Friday against Tul­sa, it was right from kickoff. Now obviously we were able to beat Tulsa handily, but we just can’t make mistakes like that against tougher teams. 
“When you’re playing a non-conference schedule as tough as ours, with North Carolina, Duke, Stanford, Santa Clara, you’re going to be exposed and you can’t make those kind of mistakes.” 
Notre Dame’s 3-1 loss against Duke highlighted the lacking areas of the Irish de­fense. The Blue Devils held a 15-11 edge in shots and a startling 9-2 advantage in 
see WALDRUM/page 18 


MEN’S TENNIS 

Bayliss applies lessons at Notre Dame from past experience 
By WALKER CAREY surroundings,” Bayliss said. “The After his tenure in Annapolis, the pride among everyone is crowns since Notre Dame joined Sports Writer two major things I took away Bayliss took the head coaching very important to me,” Bayliss the conference in 1995. 
from there was the necessity for reigns at MIT for three years, said. “I am extremely proud to While Bayliss believes his 
Irish coach Bobby Bayliss is integrity and accountability. In-where he believed he gained per-be a member of the ND family coaching style has not changed entering his 43rd year as a col-tegrity and accountability are spective while bringing the pro-and that membership gives me much recently, he does acknowl­legiate men’s tennis coach. Dur-two major things the Academy gram to new heights. a great sense of responsibility to edge that it is much different ing that time, he has made stops stands for.” “MIT was a place where I win. When we lose, I feel like we from when he began his career. at the Naval Academy, MIT and Bayliss, who was also an Eng-gained some perspective,” Bayliss are letting the school down.” “I have drastically calmed at Notre Dame, now entering his lish professor and squash coach said. “We were also able to win Considering his sense of re-down.” Bayliss said. “When I be­25th season. Each coaching stint at the Naval Academy, coached in the school’s first two New Eng-sponsibility to win, the veter-gan my career [at Navy], I was in Bayliss’ career has had a sig-Annapolis from 1970-1984. The land Intercollegiate titles and fin-an coach has been successful very hyper and always had to feel nificant influence on himself as highlight of his tenure as Mid-ish in the top-20 in Division III.” throughout his tenure with the in control, but now I have learned a leader, as well as his style of shipmen coach was in 1980 when After his time in Boston, Bayl-Irish. In the last 21 seasons, his to let things develop.” coaching. he was named National Coach of iss made the move to Notre Dame team has qualified for the NCAA 
“At the Naval Academy, I could the Year and Maryland Profes-and has never looked back. championships 20 times. He has Contact walker Carey at not help but be influenced by the sional of the Year. “The spirit of Notre Dame and also led his team to 14 Big East wcarey@nd.edu 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Silva focuses on improvement 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
Senior libero Frenchy Silva has already cracked one top-10 list and will soon join another. The senior, one of the program’s best talents, however, remains focused on other accomplish­ments. 
Silva averaged 3.25 digs-per­set during her first three years in an Irish uniform, good for fourth place on the school’s all-time list. She has opened this season digging at a 4.26 clip. Additionally, her 1,041 career digs place her just two away from tying ’97 graduate Angie Harris for 10th all-time, though by the season’s end she will 
see SILVA/page 18 


CROSS COUNTRY 
Rae looks to perform at elite level for Irish 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Must be something about the number three. 
Irish junior runner Jeremy Rae speaks three different languages — English, French and Portuguese. He runs dur­ing three different seasons. His favorite movie series — Lord of the Rings — is even a trilogy. 
The Lake Erie, Ontario na­tive has particularly excelled in his running career at Notre Dame, qualifying for nation­als not only in track, but also in cross country. “I was happy to qualify for nationals last year,” Rae said. “Getting there was our biggest goal. It was a great experience. It’s the big­gest race you compete in.” 
Big races are not unfa­miliar to Rae, who has been running in them for years. In high school, Rae represented Canada at the Pan Am Junior Games in Trinidad while also setting multiple Canadian track records. Most impres­sive, however, may be his Penn Relays high school re­cord of a 4:08 mile. 
see RAE/page 18 






