the
Observer 

Colleges discuss distribution of students 
Freshmen explore academic opportunities, prepare to enroll across five schools 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
With the March 4 deadline to declare a specific college approaching, students wandered up and down aisles of tables at Majors Night in South Dining Hall on Jan. 27. Along the way, they paused to inquire about specific majors in the five col­leges that make up the University. 
Sam Gaglio, assistant dean of the Mendoza College of Business, said he was pleased by how stu­dents continued to explore aca­demic opportunities. 
“Most didn’t have a predeter­mined track. That was what really demonstrated to me the opportunities of a Notre Dame education,” Gaglio said. 
Hugh Page, dean of the First 
see COLLEGES/page 5 



Revue relocates to Stepan 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
The students behind the 2011 edition of the Keenan Revue boast that this year’s variety show is “Too Big for Saint Mary’s,” as the event’s 

See Also 
move to 
Stepan “History of the 
Center Keenan Revue” means the 
page 8
venue and production will be larger than ever. 
After the O’Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary’s College chose not to renew Keenan Hall’s contract last spring, Revue director Grayson Duren and producer Chase Riddle, both juniors, began their search for a new venue for the envelope-pushing produc­tion. 
“We and the previous director and producer looked at alter­nate spots, including Washington Hall and the Morris Performing Arts Center in South Bend,” Duren said. “But we did-n’t want to take it off campus to a place that was more profes­sional than our show.” 

Riddle said keeping the pro­duction free for students was also a factor in choosing a new location for the show. 
“At the ticket distribution for the Revue, people always pull out their credit cards or ask how much it is, but we wanted to keep the event free for stu­dents,” Riddle said. “We needed a venue that could make the show free for nearly 4,000 peo­
see REVUE/page 4 




Observer selects new editors for 2011-12 
Observer Staff Report 
Sarah Mervosh, Adriana Pratt and Chris Masoud have been chosen to help oversee The Observer ’s editorial 
operations in 2011 -2012, incoming Editor-in -Chief Douglas Farmer announced Thursday. 
Mervosh will assume the position of managing editor, the No. 2 spot at the paper, and Pratt and Masoud will serve as assistant managing editors. 
A junior majoring in Psychology and Arabic with a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy, Mervosh will assist Farmer in managing all departments of The Observer’s print and online editions. 
A native of Pittsburgh, Pa., Mervosh is currently study­ing abroad in London after initially beginning the semester in Cairo. She served as News Editor in the fall semester, and covered a variety of topics for The Observer, including student government, the controversy surrounding an influx of stu­dent arrests in the fall, and the tragic death of junior Declan Sullivan in October. 
“I’m very excited for this 
opportunity and look for ­ward to working with a tal­ented and dedicated staff to put out the best paper possi­ble every day,” Mervosh said. 
Pratt, a resident of Howard Hall, is a junior majoring in Political Science with a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. She is a native of Carmel, Ind., and currently serves as Associate Scene Editor. 
Pratt spent last semester studying in London, where she developed an online video blog, “Scene Around the World,” featuring clips from her travels across Europe. 
“I’m thrilled to take on this position at The Observer and look forward to working with a driven and dedicated staff,” Pratt said. 
see STAFF/page 3 


Mendoza considers possibility of capping future enrollment in business programs 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
The recent surge in enroll­ment in the Mendoza College of Business may lead to the employment of an algorithm that will limit the number of students who may declare each major in the college, Assistant Dean Samuel Gaglio said. 
An algorithm has been in place for the past three years but the college has not yet had to force students to take their second choice of major. Gaglio said some of the majors, such as finance, are currently close to their capacity. 
Senior A.J. McGauley, chair 
of the Academic Affairs Committee, said he is con-
see MENDOZA/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Student government elections In Focus  History of the Keenan Revue page 8  Men’s basketball to face USF page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Friday, February 11, 2011 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Sam Stryker Allan Joseph Kristen Durbin Megan Finneran Anna Boarini Sam Gans 
Graphics Scene 
Blair Chemidlin Courtney Cox 
Photo Viewpoint 
Sarah O’Connor Megan Kozak 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT A E YOU TOO SEXY FO ? 







Alexandria Doctor  Caitlyn Koscielski  Chris Salvi  Ellen Carroll  Mike Trivella  
freshman  sophomore  junior  sophomore  freshman  
Badin  Badin  Dillon  Badin  Dillon  
“Dorm parties.”  “Alumni Boys.”  “For all of my  “Hip-hop  “Townies.”  
past  night.”  
girlfriends.”  


GRANT TOBIN/The Observer Stallions forward Kevin Bell shakes past Team America defender Matt Rhodes to score late in the first half of a second-round indoor soccer playoff game. The Stallions went on to win, 17-3, and will advance to the semifinals. 
OFFBEAT 
Racy ad causing stir in Atlantic City 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. — The judge who wrote the book “Boardwalk Empire,” now an HBO series about vice-ridden Prohibition-era Atlantic City, has ordered the state’s transit agency to keep its hands off a bill­board that shows a nearly naked showgirl's backside. 
On Thursday, Superior Court Judge Nelson Johnson ordered NJ Transit and its advertising agency not to touch the billboard until a hearing can be held March 10 on what to do about it. 
Casino owner Dennis Gomes says the sign does­n’t hurt anyone. 
“I’ve got five kids and they’ve seen butts all their lives and they all turned out fine,” he said. 
The show is designed to evoke a Roaring ‘20s vibe, which is what Resorts has staked its future on. 
“We have this 1920s show being specially creat­ed for us with beautiful women with great bodies in it,” Gomes said. “It's all about the music and danc­ing of the '20s”. 
Grandmother beats jewelry thiefs with shopping bag 
NORTHAMPTON,U.K. — A “super-senior” who bravely fought-off jewel thieves with her handbag has been unmasked. 
She's 71-year old grand­mother, Ann Timson,who was caught on video Monday beating up a gang of robbers with her bag. They were trying to break the windows of a jewelry store She initially thought a kid was being beaten up. 
“My mother's instinct kicked in,” she said. 
The fiesty granny was on a mission. 
“I clobbered (one) with my shopping, but he got away. The rest were still trying to smash and grab the jewelry,” she says. 
But there was a close call. “He raised a hammer to me, so I kept shouting for others to bring them down.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight saturday sunday 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
The Department of Film, Television, and Theatre are presenting ‘An Evening with Larry Karaszewski.’ This event will showcase two of his films. Ed Wood will be shown at 6:30 p.m. and The People vs. Larry Flynt will be at 9:30 
p.m. The event is being held at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center and costs $3 for students. Following the 6:30 screening, Karaszewski will be discussing his career in screenwriting. He will also be introducing both films. 
Friday and Saturday, the Pasquerilla East Musical Company will be presenting Chicago. The show starts at 
7:30 p.m. at Washington Hall. Tickets can be purchased for $6 at the LaFortune Box Office. 
The Keenan Revue will be presented this Friday and Saturday at the Stepan Center. This is the first year that the Revue will be held in the Stepan Center. Tickets are required and the show starts at 7:30 p.m. 
Badin and Dillon Hall will be holding their signature charity event the 2nd annual Polar Bear Plunge. The event will be taking place at the boat house on St. Joseph’s lake and starts at 2 p.m.A $5 donation is sug­gested. 
Diavolo Dance Theatre will be preforming five pieces, including the midwest pre­miere of ‘Fearful Symmetries’, which was comissioned by the University.The prefromance starts at 7:30 and is being held at DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets cost between $8 and $35. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


monday tuesday 

Friday, February 11, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Conferenceexplores gender, sexuality 

By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
The annual Edith Stein Project will offer a “counter-cultural” view on gender and sexuality at the largest student-run confer­ence on campus this weekend, said founder Caitlin Shaughnessy Dwyer, a 2006 Notre Dame gradu­ate. 
“The Edith Stein Project chal­lenges the assumptions laden in our culture about what freedom is and what women’s dignity is,” she said. “It challenges those assump­tions and offers new answers and alternative definitions.” 
Claire Gillen, conference chair for the 2011 Edith Stein Project, said the event will offer challeng­ing perspectives. 
“We don’t expect many of 

the people who “The Edith Stein ference includes attend the con-Project challenges the well -known 
ference to agree Jewish author 
assumptions laden in
with the speak-Wendy Shalit ers on every-our culture about what and Protestant 
thing,” she said. freedom is and what author Gilbert 
“We do hope Meilaender. 
women’s dignity is.” 
people will “The confer-engage in ence really seeks respectful dia-Caitlin Shaughnessy Dwyer to reach out to logue.” people from 
founder 
Dwyer was one every walk of 
Edith Stein Project 
life,” Dwyer said. 
of the Project’s three original founders, along with Notre Dame graduates Anamaria Scaperlanda-Ruiz and Madeline Ryland. They began planning the conference in 2004 as a response to “The Vagina Monologues,” then being per­formed on campus. The confer­ence’s inaugural run took place in 2006. 
“During my junior year, the dis­cussion surrounding the ‘Monologues’ was very heated and one of the arguments in support of it was that there was nothing else on campus that addressed issues of violence against women,” Dwyer said. “So we wanted to address issues like domestic vio­lence and trafficking, but also issues the ‘Monologues’ did not address.” 
Abortion, contraception, eating disorders and pornography are among the issues The Edith Stein Project seeks to tackle. These are not separate subjects, Dwyer said. 
“They all [come] from lack of respect for the dignity of the human person and of women in particular,” she said. 
Gillen said the conference takes a unique approach to gender issues. 
“There isn’t another conference that does what this does,” she said. “I don’t know of any other initiative that attempts to address gender and sexuality in the way that The Edith Stein Project does.” 
Additionally, The Edith Stein Project is entirely student-organ­ized. 
“It is a big endeavor for students to plan a professional confer­ence,” Dwyer said. “[The first] was definitely an adventure.” 
The initial conference was titled “Redefining Feminism,” reflecting the aim of the founders. 
“We wanted to look at feminism in a new light and in the perspec­tive of Catholic tradition,” Dwyer said. “What better place to do that than Notre Dame?” 
Gillen said while the conference is inspired by Catholic tradition, The Edith Stein Project is open to people from all backgrounds. This year’s con­
“I hope that it 
will continue to attract a very diverse audience and keep the conversation going.” 
One big change in the confer­ence over the years has been the gradual addition of men’s issues. Dwyer said this conference repre­sents a greater inclusion than ever. 
“[We] have made more of an effort to draw men into the con­versation.” 
While the conference has evolved over the years, human dignity is still a central theme. This is reflected in the 2011 title, “Irreplaceable You: Vocation, Identity, and the Pursuit of Happiness.” 
The conference theme does not just refer to a religious vocation, Gillen said. 
“[It is about] understanding vocation as a personal call which will vary widely from person to person,” she said. 
Dwyer said she feels privileged to be involved in this year’s Edith Stein Project. 
“It’s awesome to see how people have kept it going,” she said. “I’m honored to be involved in it again this year.” 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 
Staff 
continued from page 1 
Masoud served as an Assistant Sports Editor over the past year. A native of San Francisco, Calif., Masoud is a junior pursuing a Finance major with a sup­plementary major in Economics. 

He spearheaded The Observer’s coverage of the Notre Dame women’s soccer team ’s national champi ­onship run this fall. 
“The Observer is in a great position thanks to the cur­rent editorial staff,” Masoud said. “We have the talent within all of our depart ­ments to make the paper even better, and I am excited to be a part of that.” 
Farmer will begin his duties as Editor-in-Chief on March 7, and the rest of the Editorial Board will assume their roles March 21. 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 11, 2011 
Dance program to putonperformance 
By BRIDGET MEADE 
News Writer 
Students will show off their best moves this weekend as the Saint Mary’s Program in Dance will offer three per­formances of its annual dance production, “HappensDance,” featuring the 2010-11 Dance Ensemble Workshop. 
The performances are put together by Saint Mary’s stu­dents, faculty and guest cho­reographers Beth LaBaren and Lena Polzonetti. Happensdance will be the premiere of Polzonetti’s work inspired by the late Italian author and journalist Italo Calvino, according to a College press release. 
HappensDance will show­case a wide variety of dance styles, including ballet, mod­ern dance, tap dance and a kick-line performance to an arrangement of Beatles songs, according to a copy of the performance program. 
Dance professor and Happensdance artistic direc­tor Indi Dieckgrafe said the name of the show derives from the diverse choreogra­phy and performances fea­tured in the production. 
“‘HappensDance’ refers to a concert of repertory pieces that are independent of one another and are representa­tive of several choreogra­phers’ creative ideas and inspirations,” she said. 
Dieckgrafe said HappensDance displays the commitment of an entire technical crew composed of Saint Mary’s students, in addition to the 16 students performing. 
“The dancers’ dedication to arts in education demands hours and hours of strenuous work. It is exciting to witness this caliber of students as they discover their artistic voices,” she said. 
Senior Katie Brown said she is excited to perform in the production 
“I am thrilled the Saint Mary’s dance department has an annual concert for stu­dents to participate in,” she said. “It’s a great way for the dancers and choreographers to express their creativity and passion for dance and to share it with the community.” 
Dieckgrafe said dance enthusiasts of all knowledge and experience levels can appreciate the program. 
“HappensDance offers a delightful sampling of dance to even the most timid of audiences,” she said. 
Contact Bridget Meade at bmeade01@saintmarys.edu 
Revue 
continued from page 1 
ple.” 
With convenience, capacity and cost in mind, Duren and Riddle looked into using Stepan Center for the Revue. Duren said the building was especially appealing because of its loca­tion. 
“Since our main focus was making the show free for stu­dents, Stepan was a great option because it’s on campus, so students wouldn’t have to pay for tickets or for transportation to get to an off-campus venue,” Duren said. 
Once Keenan secured Stepan Center as its venue, Duren and Riddle knew the larger arena would require expanded light­ing and sound technology than the standard equipment provid­ed in previously used venues. 
Riddle said that because he and Duren are amateurs at their jobs, they 
enlisted  the  
help  of  the  
S  t  u  d  e  n  t  

Activities Office for the produc­tion. 
“We don’t have any expe­rience with shows, so we had to go out of our element in tact with the right people to help us with the show’s production.” 

Hnatusko helped Duren and Riddle get in touch with Shannon Stewart, an independ­ent production manager and 
live sound engi­neer and con­sultant at Stewart Independent Production LLC who has worked on sev­eral produc­tions at Notre Dame over the past 17 years. 
Stewart, whose previous projects at Notre Dame include a Billy Joel concert, a Vince Vaughn 

“Our goal is to create a hybrid between a concert and a theatrical event using professional sound reinforcement and lighting.” 
Shannon Stewart production manager Stewart Independent Production LLC 
comedy show and the B1 Block Party, agreed to provide sound and lighting technology for the 
“We don’t have any experience with shows, so we had to go out of our element in a big way to make decisions about stuff we don’t really know about.” 
Chase Riddle producer Keenan Revue 

Keenan Revue at a reasonable price, Riddle said. 
“The lights and sound will be much better quality than they were at Saint Mary’s for about the same price,” Riddle said. “[Stewart ’s] workers are practically working for 
a big way to make decisions about stuff we don’t really know about,” Riddle said. “Peggy Hnatusko [director of student activities programming for Student Activities] got us in con-

free and paying for their hotels out of pocket so the public does­n’t have to pay for tickets to the Revue.” 
Duren and Riddle said Stewart made it a point to come to Notre Dame because of his long history of producing events at the University. 
“[Stewart] wants it to be good because it has his name and 
Notre Dame’s 
name on it,” Riddle said. “He’s like a saint because we’re paying for technology and service that would be four to five times as much other­wise.” 
Stewart said he views his job as much more than just pro­viding basic lighting and sound. 
“Our goal is to create a 
hybrid between a concert and a theatrical event using profes­sional sound reinforcement and lighting,” Stewart said. “We’ve created a theatrical production with a punch.” 
Stewart said working with Notre Dame has always been a positive experience, especially with events in Stepan Center. 
“We’re here to provide the client with the tools they need to bring their hard work and vision to life,” Stewart said. “It’s been a pleasure working with the Keenan guys and Fr. Dan [Nolan, Keenan Hall rector], and we always enjoy coming down here to do shows because it’s a great place.” 
The Keenan Revue will be performed Friday and Saturday at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 


Friday, February 11, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Mendoza 
continued from page 1 
cerned about students leav­ing Mendoza if they are not able to study their first choice. McGauley said the college denied an appeals process he suggested. 
“They refused to set up an appeals process on the premise that if you set it up, everyone will use it,” he said. “I completely under­stand, but from my point of view, I’m trying to defend the students.” 
McGauley said while the committee does not agree with all aspects of the algo­rithm, they recognize it is the only solution under cur­rent circumstances. 
“We need to have the prob­lem of over-enrollment actu­ally manifest before we can start dealing with long-term solutions,” McGauley said. 
The college will determine whether the algorithm will be used next year after cur­rent sophomores in Mendoza declare their majors by Feb. 18. 
Difficulties began last spring, when a larger-than­expected number of students entered the college and quickly filled a number of required introductory-level classes. 
Gaglio said he builds class capacities before freshmen are asked to declare a major. As a result, a lot of predicting goes into creating a schedule and cap for the following fall semester. 

“We use the history to pre­dict the future,” he said. “But last year’s class didn’t follow the usual pattern.” 
The staff at Mendoza worked diligently with the students who were not able to register for necessary classes, and Gaglio said his office was able to accommo­date everyone. 
Gaglio said one likely rea­son for the growth of Mendoza is the college’s ranking as the No. 1 under­graduate business school in the country, according to BusinessWeek. Last year’s ranking was published shortly before freshmen were asked to declare a col­lege. 
“It’s a real possibility, ” Gaglio said. “We’re planning for some additional capacity for this coming fall based on that possibility.” 
McGauley said the econo­my could be an influence on students’ decisions to enter Mendoza. 
“It’s not as much business is up, as it is arts and letters is down,” McGauley said. “People feel the need to get, for lack a better word, a more useful degree.” 
Gaglio said that because the University cannot control the rankings or the economy, it is difficult to predict the number of students who are going to declare Mendoza as their chosen college. 
“Is this pattern going to continue or is it going to sta­bilize or is it going to decline?” Gaglio said. “We can’t change the factors, so we have to be prepared.” 

Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 
Colleges 
continued from page 1 
Year of Studies, said enrollment numbers for each college are variables. 
“The first year at Notre Dame is a time of discernment and con­templative exploration,” Page said. “Enrollment numbers speak to the intellectual curiosity of our students and the unfolding of 
their journeys as they respond to the call of wis­dom’s voice.” 
Page said he anticipates the College of Arts and Letters to enroll the most freshmen, fol­lowed closely by the Mendoza College of Business and the College of Science. 
Page said 28 percent of fresh­men plan to enter the College 
Mendoza has 1,780; Science 1,189; Engineering 950; and Architecture 250. 
Page said enrollment in engineering, sci­ence and busi­ness majors has increased, while the School of Architecture has seen consistent demand. 
Page said there is a deep­ening student consider their passions and what they wish to gain from their experiences. 
“To say one program will give you an advantage over another is an incorrect statement. What are you passionate about? Be excit­ed, engaged and throw yourself into it,” he said. “Each is equally impressive and creates an advantage in your next endeav­or.” 
John McGreevy, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, said a 

“Enrollment numbers speak to the intellectual curiosity of our students and the unfolding of their journeys as they respond to the call of wisdom’s voice.” 
Hugh Page dean First Year of Studies 
of Arts and Letters, 26 percent the Mendoza College of Business, 18 percent the College of Engineering, 25 percent the College of Science and two per­cent the School of Architecture. 
Currently, Arts and Letters con­sists of 2,500 undergraduates. 
interest in educational synergies involving coursework between other colleges and the College of Arts and Letters. 
“Contemporary issues such as sustainability, energy policy, glob­al health, technology and values, ethics and business, peace stud­ies and poverty studies require broad disciplinary exposure,” said Page. “That places students and faculty from all of these Colleges at what might be termed a ‘nexus of creativity,’ where the ideas and innovations that will shape the future are imagined.” 
Gaglio said students deciding which college to enter should college should open significant intellectual and moral questions to students. 
“College is the perfect time to study and debate these great issues,” he said. “The ability to write, the ability to analyze data, and the ability to speak is of greatest use for any student after leaving Notre Dame.” 
For freshmen 
still deciding, Holly Martin, assis­tant dean of the First Year of Studies, said it is important to remember choosing a college or major is not the same as choos­ing a career. 
“The Career Center is happy to work with first-year students 

“The ability to write, the ability to analyze data, and the ability to speak is of greatest use for any student after leaving Notre Dame.” 
John McGreevy dean College of Arts and Letters 
about possible career choices,” she said. “But it isn’t necessary to know what you would like to do as a future career when choosing your college or major.” 
Page said stu­dents change their minds often as course­work, conversa­tions and intel­lectual explo­ration generate moments that 

lead to reevaluation. 
“A decision at or near the end of the first year at Notre Dame need not be seen as irreversible,” he said. 
It is crucial for students to fol­low their passions, Gaglio said. 
“You don’t ‘have’ to do any­thing except believe in what you study to be a success. The point is, the university education is your grounding, and then you specialize after that,” he said. “Continue your education. We learn our entire lives.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 


The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 6 Friday, February 11, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Seriously Saint Mary’s 
Dear students of “Saint Marian’s College,” 
Last year, the Keenan Revue instructed “excited” Notre Dame boys everywhere to go ahead and 
grab a  
“Smckers.” A lot  Anna Boarini  
of girls were  
offended and the  
Saint Mary’s  News Writer  
administration  

asked the Revue to find a new home, which resulted in its new location at the Stepan Center. I think that this year, us “SMC Chicks” need to take a step back and take a chill pill. Seriously. It’s all in good fun and we shouldn’t take ourselves so seriously that we can’t laugh at something funny. Honestly, we should take their jokes as a compliment. The men of Keenan Hall are just so in awe of our collective awesomeness that they have to make fun of us to pay us a real compliment. We should revel in the fact that we are even mentioned in this year’s title, “Too big for Saint Mary’s.” Instead of freaking out and giving people more ammunition against us as a group, we should brush off the jokes and laugh with everyone. 
We have a reputation of being nothing more than party girls in search of our “MRS” degree. The reason many people feel this way is because they only see us on the weekend. You want to be taken seriously? You want the jokes to stop? Then start acting more like our counterparts across the street. Take a class or join a club and show everyone that just because you chose to go to Saint Mary’s doesn’t make you a total idiot. You can’t complain about never being taken seriously by Notre Dame boys and being seen as stupid by Notre Dame girls if you only ever go across the street to party. I know how hard we work as Saint Mary’s girls, and I know that when it comes to the weekend personally I want to have fun. I don’t want to look back on my years in college and only have fond memories of the library. 
I think, as a group, we should not become upset and angry over what­ever they will say this weekend at the Keenan Revue. Rather, we should embrace the jokes. I know who I am, and that is more than just a party girl. But, I also have a sense of humor and don’t mind laughing at myself. I know that I don’t want to turn into a cold and emotion-free person that can’t rec­ognize a good joke if it slapped her on the face. 
So, women of Saint Mary’s, take this weekend as an opportunity to laugh with your friends about the stereotypes that are so prevalent across our two campuses. When the Keenan men make a joke about us, don’t be so quick to judge them as a dorm full of misogynist pigs. Rather, embrace their humor in a way that shows how truly classy and fabulous we really are. Any woman that has the ability to laugh at herself in an elegant manner is the kind of woman that Saint Mary’s wants us to become and the kind Notre Dame girls wish they could be. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
Potentiality 
Consider Socrates: once upon a time, he was fairly ignorant, but as he grew older, he learned a great many things — music among them. An unmusical man, in other words, became a musical man. One might conclude that, by citing these two prin­ciples — unmusicality and manhood — one has explained the change. 
But this should strike one as baffling. Consider that, on the one hand, Socrates was a man before the change, and he was a man after the change — so isn’t this mere stasis? Consider that, on the other hand, Socrates was unmusical before the change, and he was musical after the change — so isn’t this mere replacement of one thing by another? 

Daniel Sportiello 
An answer, one might think, imme­diately presents itself. While it is true 
Bound 
that, on the one hand, Socrates was a 
Variables 
man both before and after the change, nonetheless something did change — his unmusicality. And while it is true that, on the other hand, Socrates was unmusical before the change and was musi­cal after the change, nonetheless something remained through the change — his manhood. 
But this should strike one as even more baffling. One has attempted to explain the change by citing two different principles 
— 
by noting, in other words, that Socrates was both unmusical and that he was a man. If these two are each what Socrates real­ly is, however, how can he cease to be one and yet remain the other? Yet if they are not each what Socrates really is, how can they explain the change? 

Aristotle poses this very dilemma. His answer is that, while Socrates is, loosely speaking, both unmusical and a man — while both musicality and manhood are, in some sense, the explana­tion for the change — these do not get at the heart of what Socrates is, strictly speaking — they do not, in other words, really explain the change. To explain change strictly speaking requires a principle that is somehow, in one way, the result of the change 

— 
but also somehow, in another way, not that result. Somehow, the combination of unmusical and man yield a principle that is, strictly speaking, both the result of the change and not that result 

— 
in exactly the way required to explain the change, even though neither the unmusical nor the man explains the change. 


No doubt this strikes one as baffling. And yet it should not: this mysterious principle — the correct explanation for the change — is not actually so mysterious: Socrates becomes actually musical because he was potentially musical. To be both unmusical and a man, in other words, just is to have a certain potentiality — that for musicality. 
But what is potentiality? Admittedly, it cannot itself be explained: rather, it is that in terms of which every explanation is offered; it is the grammar of every explanation — and, thus, the grammar of reality. To understand this is to take the first step into wisdom — into what is indeed beyond, in some sense, the systematic knowledge of the world. Aristotle was the first to real­ize this, and we honor him by transliterating the Greek for this knowledge, “metaphysics.” 

But how is it that we can come to a knowledge of that which cannot itself be explained? Well, given that it is the very gram­mar of the world and of our knowledge of that world, it is already intimately familiar to us. Consider: Socrates had the power to walk to the square — he had, that is, the strength to do it — and he did so. Likewise, Socrates had the power to savagely beat Euthyphro — he had, that is, the strength to do it — and this is so despite the fact that he did not do so. But all things are like this: rocks have the “power” to fall, pale people have the “power” to be tan, bronze has the “power” to be a statue of Hermes, and so on. Sometimes they use this power, and sometimes they don’t. But they have the same powers either way. 
It is these “powers” in things that constitute the causal order of the world: whether they lead to change or not, these powers have the kind of stability — and the kind of movement — required in any systematic account of change. These “powers,” of course, comes in degrees: it is easier for Socrates to walk to the square if he is already halfway there than if he has to start from his home, for example. Indeed, in general, the greater the “power” is, the “easier” it will be for the change to happen — that is, the more likely the change is to happen. The “power” of a rock to fall, especially when there is nothing in the way to stop its fall, is so strong as to be undeniable, for example: in such a situa­tion, one can confidently predict that the rock will indeed fall. 
Aristotle was the first to realize this, but for some reason we transliterate the Latin, not the Greek, for this power, “potentiali­ty.” It is this principle — the “power” of a given thing to be what it becomes — that ultimately explains change: the potentiality for something is to be found in the combination of its negation and a certain underlying thing — and just which underlying thing is to be found through induction over experience. Moreover, the stronger the potentiality for something, the more likely that thing is to arise — and just how strong a potentiality a given combina­tion yields is also to be found through induction over experience. Thus, for instance, not just any unmusical thing can become musical, nor just any man: it takes an unmusical man to yield the potentially musical — and an unmusical man in his final lyre les­son is far more likely to change into a musical man than an unmusical man who has never seen a lyre. Indeed, given suffi­cient induction over experience, one can predict anything. But it took an Aristotle to realize that it is the grammar of the world that makes this knowledge possible. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his third year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. Listen to his radio show on WVFI at 1 p.m. on Thursdays. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Love is an irresistible desire to be irresistibly desired.” 
Robert Frost 
U.S. poet 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“It is nobler to declare oneself wrong than to insist on being right — especially when one is right.” 
Friedrich Nietzsche German philosopher 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Friday, February 11, 2011 page 7 
You don’t have to be straight to shoot straight 
History was made on December 22, when President Obama signed into law the repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” (DADT) the ban on homosexuals serving openly in the military. While many don’t believe in the repeal of DADT at a time when America 
Adam Newman 
is at war, their argu­ments are misguided. 
Before 1993, mili-Scientia tary code banned potentia est homosexuals from serving in the mili­tary. Early in his presidency, Bill Clinton attempted to change this policy, but could-n’t push a repeal through Congress. Instead, President Clinton issued an order forbidding military recruiters from asking applicants questions about their sexual ori­entation. This allowed homosexuals to serve in the military only by not openly revealing their sexual orientation. However, if homosexual service members revealed their sexual orientation, they could be dismissed from the military. This policy received the name “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.” 
President Obama made ending DADT a priority, and as a result appointed Robert Gates, (a DADT opponent), as his Secretary of Defense. While liberals wanted President Obama to repeal DADT quickly, President Obama and Secretary Gates knew that they needed the support of the more conservative military community for an effective repeal of DADT. This motivated Secretary Gates in March 2010 to create a committee of military personnel tasked with analyzing how repealing DADT would affect “military effectiveness.” On Nov. 30, 2010, the committee released a 250-page study that was based on input from hun­dreds of thousands of service members. 
The study breaks the commonly held assumption that a repeal of DADT would negatively affect the military. The commit­tee found that 70 percent of service mem­bers surveyed had worked alongside some­one they believed to be a homosexual. Of those, 92 percent stated that the unit’s ability to work together was very good, good, or neither good nor poor. Moreover, 70 percent of the service members sur­veyed believed that a repeal of DADT would have a positive, mixed or no effect on the military. Based upon statistics simi­lar to those above and the other findings from the review, the committee came to the following conclusion: Based on all we saw and heard, our assessment is that, when coupled with the prompt implemen­tation of the recommendations we offer below, the risk of repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” to overall military effectiveness is low. 
No statistics are needed, however, to argue that DADT is a discriminatory policy. If someone passes the necessary tests, boot 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Definition of a man 
Dear Mr. Mullen (“Be a man,” Feb. 9), 
While you may not be the type of man to use conditioner or be in touch with your emo­tions, don’t expect that you are all that is man. While I agree with you and Mr. Metz in regarding Siegfried’s “Day of Man” as a very honorable day, I must side with Mr. Metz in his fears about what exactly Notre Dame men think it means to be a man. I have never been a man, so I cannot guarantee I know exactly what I am talking about, but it seems you have no problems assuming you know what us women want to date. I have known quite a few men in my day, and not all of them are “to a certain standard of masculinity.” At least, they don’t abide by your standard of masculinity. I have known men to cry, use conditioner and they still have had quite a few girls chasing after them. 
As for your thoughts about Fr. Sorin and Corby, I am sure both men wore coats in the winter. Their statues are also wearing robes, and Fr. Sorin’s has a hat, thus even the stat­ues are aware of the weather. As for your comment about Stonehenge, I like how you neg­lect to mention the brave women who are also being honored in that memorial. 
Again I don’t want to take anything away from “Day of Man,” in fact I enjoy seeing them outside of DeBartolo and dropping the last of my week’s change into their cups. Yet, if you are going to assume that girls only want to date the tough-weathered men, you are wrong, sir. And in fact, it is phallocentric and discriminatory to assume that all those with X and Y chromosomes must be held to the same standard of manhood. 
Good Luck on Valentine’s Day, 
Christine Fagan 
junior 
Farley Hall 
Feb. 9 
Sexual morality 
While your article (“Let’s talk about sex,” Feb. 10), seemed well-meaning, albeit a lit­tle preachy, after reading it I felt compelled to respond to your conclusion that couples using contraceptive means are inherently objectifying the act of sex as well as each other. Now I’m only a lowly Computer Science major but I feel five years of Catholic theological education at a Jesuit high school might give me a bit of credibility. At any rate, from what I remember, for the act of sexual intercourse to be legitimate in the Church’s eyes it must follow two general guidelines: that it be a mutual act of love between a man and a woman (though others might disagree) and that it must be open to the possibility of conception. Here’s where I get to the point; while the use of contra­ception in effect can make the act of sexual intercourse, illegitimate or even (gasp) sin­ful, that does not mean that there was not an air of mutual love between the two part­ners. I don’t think a couple that truly loves each other but doesn’t have the moral gumption to wait a few years or risk the uncertainty or confusion of “Natural Family Planning” should be as easily decried as objectifying each other as those at a random dorm party or on spring break. As for everything else, this is neither the time nor space to tread the other more tested battlegrounds of Catholic moral theology espoused in your response. Time to remove my moral debate cap and get back to cod­ing and video games. 
Thomas Falcon 
sophomore Sorin Hall Feb. 10 
camp and are a capable service person, they should be allowed to serve in the armed forces, regardless of their sexual orientation. DADT is also a dysfunctional policy. Since 1993, 13,000 service mem­bers have been dismissed by the military due to DADT. This comes while many serv­ice members have served as many as four tours overseas because of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Those against the repeal of DADT argue that many high-ranking military personnel, such as the heads of the Marine Core and Army, believe that DADT should continue as military policy. While these military men are certainly entitled to their opinions, their opinions should by no means dictate policy. One interesting comparison the DADT committee drew is the repeal of DADT will be similar to the end of racial segregation in the military in the late 1940s. The committee noted that as many top generals are today against the repeal of DADT, many top generals during the 1940s were against the racial integration of the military, including WWII heroes General George Marshall and General Dwight D. Eisenhower. History has shown that the racial integration of the armed forces was not just sound policy, but the right thing to do. There is no doubt that history will render a similar verdict on the repeal of DADT. 
Those against the repeal of DADT have also argued that many service member, especially in the Marine Corps, would feel uncomfortable if a repeal was implement­ed. Surely, for some, the open acceptance of homosexuals in the military will be diffi­cult. However, there is no reason why serv­ice members will not accept a repeal of DADT. The co-chairs of the committee elo­quently noted this in the DADT study: We are both convinced that our military can do this, even during this time of war. We do not underestimate the challenges in imple­menting a change in the law, but neither should we underestimate the ability of our extraordinarily dedicated servicemen and women to adapt to such change and con­tinue to provide our nation with the mili­tary capability to accomplish any mission. 

There are many great quotes about America, but one of my personal favorites is from Winston Churchill: America will always do the right thing … after they have exhausted all the alternatives. It was heartwarming to finally see America do the right thing, and consequently show gay Americans that they still have a country worth fighting for. 
Adam Newman is a sophomore majoring in finance. He can be contacted at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
True manhood 
In response to both Mr. O’Leary (“Day of woman,” Feb. 9) and Mr. Mullen (“Be a Man,” Feb 8), I agree with many points from each. I do indeed believe “the absence of true manhood is a serious problem in society,” and I think we all know at least a few sensitive guys who do indeed get the girl. 
However, in a society today that tries to define masculinity in terms of athletic achievements, sexual conquests and economic power, we need to reevaluate our definition of masculinity. 
“Masculinity, first and foremost, ought to be defined in terms of relationships,” claims Joe Ehrmann in Jeffery Marx’s book “Season of Life: a football star, a boy, a journey to manhood.” 
Joe was an NFL star for eight years with the Baltimore Colts back in the 1970’s, lost his brother to cancer, became ordained a minister in 1985 and later coached a high school boy’s football team where he taught them, in his opinion, what it means to be a man for others. 
“If you look over your life at the end of it,” claims Joe, “life wouldn’t be measured in terms of success based on what you’ve acquired or achieved or what you own. The only thing that’s really going to matter is the relationships you’ve had.” 
So when my favorite golfer loses almost all his corporate endorsements, naturally I can empathize with Mr. Mullen’s point above. But I think we tend to get confused between the false fronts of masculinity and what it actually means to be a man for others. Don’t get me wrong, I still loved the movie Fight Club, but I think it takes more than “kicking ass and taking names” to define true manhood. 
Joe Ehrmann also talks about one more criteria in being a man. He claims that “all of us ought to have some kind of cause, some kind of purpose in our lives that’s bigger than our own individual hopes, dreams, wants, and desires. At the end of our live, we ought to be able to look back over it from our deathbed and know that somehow the world was a better place because we lived, we loved, we were other-centered, other-focused.” 
So when an entire dorm bonds together and stands outside all day in shorts and a t-shirt, giving themselves a better perspective on what it means to be homeless, and all doing it for a cause greater than themselves, that’s an example of being a man. When most guys are on their deathbed, I don’t think the thoughts going through their minds are, I wish I’d made state in basketball back in high school, or I wish I would have made more money or slept with more women. I’d take a stab at saying it’s probably more like, I wish I’d have gotten to know who my dad really was, or I wish I’d have been a better sibling to my brothers and sisters. You want to know what real masculinity is? It’s all about forming relationships, and it’s about having a cause bigger than you. 
Michael Taylor 
senior off-campus Feb. 10 

Polar Bear Plunge. This weekend. 
Write a Letter to the Editor. 

The Observer 
Scene

page 8 Friday, February 11, 2011 
Keenan Revue in Review 
By JORDAN GAMBLE 
Scene Editor 
Dreary winters are yet another Notre 
Dame tradition. Football season divides 
up the fall with six or seven jam-packed gamedays, but come second semester, the weather is gray, the snow is piled high and there just aren’t that many cam­pus -wide events to get swept up in. That’s where the Keenan 
Revue came in. “It started as a dorm event in the base­
ment here in Keenan,” said Chase Riddle, 
a junior in Keenan and the Revue’s pro­
ducer this year. The first Revue was a tal­
ent show thrown together because the 
men in the dorm were bored with cam­
pus life, he said. That first incarnation didn’t show many 
signs of greatness. 
“Turns out Keenan wasn’t as tal­ented as they thought they were,” said Grayson Duren, a jun­ior and this year’s director. The talent show angle soon mor­phed into a scripted sketch comedy show, similar to “Saturday Night Live,” which premiered on NBC the fall before the first “real” Keenan Revue in 1976. 

The show has become one of the 
biggest campus events of the spring 
semester. After outgrowing Washington 
Hall by the 1980s, it took up residence in 
Saint Mary’s O’Loughlin Auditorium until 
last year, when the College’s administra­
tion did not renew the Revue’s contract. 
The 36th Revue premiered last night in 
Stepan Center and continues tonight and 
Saturday at 7:30 p.m. At least a fifth of the men in Keenan directly participate in some way, Riddle said. Though the Revue comes off as “so college” in its often-obscene humor and bare-bones set design, the Revue staff starts work in October by choos­ing a theme and sifting through different skit ideas. Anyone in Keenan can sub­mit a script — 


and the staff receives roughly 45 every fall and whittles the program down to 15 or 20 skits based on quality and content. 
“The entire Revue is all Keenan,” said Patrick Mines, a Keenan president and one of the Revue’s head writers, responsi­ble for perennial features like the Revue News. “So, if you write a skit, you can pick your friends to be in the skit.” 
At least one freshman is generally assigned as historian, and gets the task of documenting the production and archiv­ing all the printed materials – from pro­grams to t-shirt designs to the letter sent out to Keenan alumni requesting dona­tions to cover the technical aspects of the show. Riddle says that in recent years, these donations have climbed toward $13,000, mostly because “so many people in the past have been so strongly affected and excited about it,” Riddle said. 
One of the reasons the Revue is still so popular is because a lot of things at Notre Dame just never change — including the drudgery of the early spring semester. 
In a feature on the Revue in the 1982 Dome yearbook, director Paul Callahan said Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s stu­dents “were tired of the same party or bar routine on Friday and Saturday nights ... The success of the Revue is due to the fact that it continues to offer an alternative to the social life at ND/SMC.” 
“Keenan Revue has its own vacuum,” said John Siegel, who directed the show in 2008 as a junior. “Nothing else is really going on, so people can look forward to that in the winter months.” 
This year’s Revue staff promises to keep up the beloved brand of lowbrow humor: the Breen-Phillips jokes have apparently been a mainstay for at least 20 years, at least according to a story in the Feb. 3, 1989, edition of The Observer. Other themes have also stood the test of time. 
“Sensitive viewers should be fore­warned of the phallic themes of several acts,” The Observer’s features editors wrote in a short article accompanying several photos of the 1989 Revue. “Freud would have a field day studying such sketches as ‘Keenan Size’ and ‘Three Member Piano.’” 
Like the Digital Shorts on “Saturday Night Live,” many of the jokes enter the Notre Dame vernacular after Revue weekend. Current seniors probably remember the “Ubiquitous Girl” skit of 2008, which Siegel said practically wrote itself after several Keenanites realized they all kept running into the same girl around campus. (Siegel said he went to the Notre Dame football game in New York City last fall and even saw Ubiquitous Girl in Yankee Stadium.) 
“The whole intention is to get people talking about it,” said Tae Kang, a 2008 graduate who was head writer of the show his senior year. “We make skits that people talk about throughout their time at Notre Dame.” 
Kang said he and other Revue writers tried to make a point of balancing the humor between “being intelligent and clever and being completely grotesque.” 
Although pop culture and current events get stage time, in the opinion of Revue staff past and present, the best skits draw on the college culture specific to Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s — whether it’s “Ubiquitous Girl,” a raunchy parody of campus favorite “Harry Potter.” 

“Another thing that sticks out about Keenan Revue is how iden­tity-driven our dorm culture is,” said Nick Burley, a junior and one of Keenan’s three hall presidents. “If you think about it, what other college would be able to do this? 

“Here, everyone has their own idea of what a hall is.” 
But getting to the final pro­duction takes months of work and lots of discarded ideas. After the staff decides what skits to scrap and which ones to keep, what lines need to be changed, what will be funny to a few people or an audience of close to 4,000 people over three nights. 
Few of the students running the show and acting in the skits have any experience in theater, so their learning curve is steep once people return from winter break and the real work on rehearsals begins. 

“It’s special how it takes all these people with different interests, a lot of them not being creative, performing interests, and puts together something that people for the most part enjoy,” Siegel said. “It’s crazy how it comes together in a two week peri­od.” 

“Tempers flare and egos get hurt,” Kang admitted, but he also added that it’s worth it when the audiences are roaring with laugh­ter. 

“I just know that every time a freshman class gets in, they hear about the Keenan Revue, they get excited about it,” he said. “But it’s something that you can’t really take ownership in until you par­ticipate or you see it … You want to pass that on, and make that next group of guys have that positive experience.” 


Riddle said this year’s Revue will con­tinue that trend. “Being funny — anybody can do it, but we’ve made a tradition out of it.” 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 

Photos Courtesy of Dome (1982 and 1994) and Observer File Photos 
The Observer 
Scene

Friday, February 11, 2011 page 9 


DeBartolo Performing Arts Center SUB Movie
By CLAIRE STEPHENS 

will receive free popcorn when Where: 101 DeBartolo Hall
Scene Writer 

attending these films. Cost: 2 for $1 Hoping to attract a Saturday Learn More: sub.nd.edu/ NOW SHOWING: Romance, Sci-Fi night crowd, DPAC is encouraging Friday: “The Notebook” 8:30 p.m. and Midnight Movies gamers to this weekend’s screening and 10 p.m. 
While Student Union Board (SUB) of “Scott Pilgrim vs. the World” Saturday: “The Notebook” 8:30 is known for its weekly Acousticafe with the following message from its p.m. and 10 p.m. and $3 movies, other resources Facebook page: “GET YOUR GAME NDtv around campus are appealing to ON! Come early on Saturday at Where: Channel 53 students by making the cinema 11:30 p.m. for the midnight screen-Cost: Free experience available and afford-ing of Scott Pilgrim vs. the World Learn More: nd.edu/~sbnd/ able. and game to old school Super Mario Month of February: “Star Trek” 
February marks not only the Brothers, Mario Cart 64 and more. month NDtv is playing “Star Trek” 16 bit glory awaits you!” Late Night Food on its channel all month long, but With NDtv offering a night in with Reckers also the start of the DeBartolo the television, SUB offering a Open 24/7 Performing Art Center’s midnight romantic date with the projection Starbucks movies. Last week featured the screen in DeBartolo, and DPAC Open until 1:30 a.m. famous cult film “Rocky Horror offering a movie night out in the Burger King Picture Show,” followed by “Scott THX certified cinema, students will Open until 10 p.m. Pilgrim vs. The World” this week-have no problem catching a flick on Sbarro end, “Reservoir Dogs” next week-campus. Open until 4 a.m. on Saturday end, and “The Big Lebowski” on Open until 2 a.m. Monday Feb. 26. Famous 1980s films Campus Cinema Round Up through “Sixteen Candles,” “The Breakfast DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Friday and Sunday Club,” “Pretty in Pink” and “Ferris Where: DeBartolo Performing Subway Bueller’s Day Off” will be playing as Arts Center Open until 1 a.m. part of the midnight movie series in Cost: $3 The Huddle Mart April. Learn More: http://performin-Open until 4 a.m. 
Like other organizations hoping garts.nd.edu/nowshowing/ Open until 2 a.m. on Saturdays to find a wider audience and stimu-Friday: “Ed Wood”  6:30 p.m., Kildares Irish Pub late student interest online, “The People vs. Larry Flyntt” 9:30 Open until 3 a.m. on Saturday DeBartolo Performing Arts Center p.m. Hot Box Pizza is cleverly using its Facebook page Saturday: “The Social Network” Open until 3:30 a.m. on Saturday to advertise “Facebook Night @ the 6:30 p.m., “Catfish” 9:30 p.m., Legends Restaurant Cinema.” The event is this weekend “Scott Pilgrim vs. The World” 11:59 Open until 2 a.m. on Saturday and features social networking p.m. films “Catfish” and “The Social Sunday: “The Great Dictator” 3 Contact Claire Stephens at Network.” All those who “like” the p.m. cstephe4@nd.edu 


By MEGAN KOZAK 
Scene Writer 
Notre Dame’s Department of Film, Television and Theatre, in association with the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center and iNDustry Alliance, will present tonight award-winning screenwriter Larry Karaszewski as a special guest in the FTT Talks lecture series. 
Karaszewski, a South Bend native, said he discovered his passion for film at a very young age. 
“It’s strange, but I wanted to make films my entire life,” Karaszewski said. “I grew up in South Bend, my mom was a waitress, my dad worked in a factory, but for some rea­son, I was always obsessed with films.” 
By the time he was 11, he had his first subscription to the entertainment magazine Variety. As he entered his teenage years he started producing Super 8 movies with the neighborhood kids. But it was in high school where Karaszewski started really learning the craft of filmmaking. While attending Riley High School in South Bend, he joined a student television group that was based out of WNDU. This group wrote, produced and directed a show called “Beyond Our Control,” which was a 30-minute sketch comedy that aired on the weekends. 
“It was there that I really learned the craft,” Karaszewski said. “It taught me how to be professional and get stuff done. We would write scripts on Monday and Tuesday, cast them on Wednesday, build props on Thursday, shoot on Saturday and air on TV Sunday afternoon. It was an amazing expe­rience.” 
His experience working on “Beyond Our Control” would be the launching pad for his career as a screenwriter in Los Angeles. The show also launched the careers of others, such as Daniel Waters, who wrote “Heathers” and “Batman Returns,” and Dean Norris, an actor on the television series “Breaking Bad.” 
After high school, Karaszewski attended the University of Southern California where he met his future writing partner Scott Alexander. The duo would eventually write the screenplay for the 1994 Academy Award-winning film “Ed Wood,” for which they were also nominated for Best Screenplay by the Writers Guild of America. In 1996, Karaszewski and Alexander would win the Best Screenplay Golden Globe for the film “The People vs. Larry Flynt.” 
To this point in his career, Karaszewski has written around 13 screenplays. Other projects he and Alexander have worked on together include the Stephen King story “1408,” “Problem Child,” “Agent Cody Banks” and Milos Forman’s film “Man on the Moon.” 
However, of all the films he has been a part of, his favorite project to work on was “Ed Wood.” 
“That movie really is about amateur film-making and the passion people put into what they love,” Karaszewski said. “That movie was probably my favorite experience because it was personal, and it was the film that really put my writing partner and I on the artistic path. It led to making odd films like ‘Larry Flynt’ and ‘Man on the Moon’ and ‘Auto Focus.’” 
“These are all one-of-a-kind motion pic­tures that I’m very proud of. They are movies I would want to see even if I had nothing to do with them.” 
Karaszewski is currently in the pre-pro­duction phase for his next movie, “Big Eyes,” a biopic that centers on the life of artists Walter and Margaret Keane. He and Alexander will direct the film while filmmak­er Tim Burton has signed on to produce it. Karaszewski is also set to write “The Addams Family” for Tim Burton. 
In addition to writing, Karaszewski also makes commentaries on vintage trailers from cult films on the website trailers­fromhell.com. He also is the host of a month­ly film series at the American Cinematheque called “Larry Karaszewski Presents.” At this event he presents a themed double feature and brings in directors and actors for an onstage discussion about the films. 

“He’s kind of a curator of cinema,” FTT Faculty member Ted Mandell said. “Larry’s a very down-to-earth guy. He has such a vast repertoire of films that he has done and knowledge of the history of film.” 
When asked what one piece of advice he would give aspiring screenwriters, Karaszewski said, “Write what you would love to see. Don’t write what you think other people want. What you have to offer is your vision. Don’t hide that.” 
Screenings of Karaszewski’s films “Ed Wood” and “The People vs. Larry Flynt” will take place tonight at 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m., respectively, in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Karaszewski will introduce each of the films and discuss the process behind making them. In addition, he will talk about his life as a screenwriter and his experiences work­ing with directors like Tim Burton and Milos Forman. 

Contact Megan Kozak at mkozak2@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Friday, February 11, 2011 
NHL 
Fisher traded to Predators 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — The Predators have acquired for­ward Mike Fisher, who will be reunited in Nashville with his wife, country music star Carrie Underwood. 
The Ottawa Senators trad­ed Fisher to the Predators on Thursday for a first-round draft pick and a future condi­tional pick. 
Underwood lives in Nashville, and the couple married last summer in Georgia. Fisher, 30, has 24 points this season and had been tied for the Senators’ lead in goals with 14. 
“I’m sure there was a lot of places and a lot of teams that would ’ve coveted Mike, ” Nashville general manager David Poile said on a confer­ence call Thursday after ­noon. “But on the surface the fit for Nashville with his wife, certainly we ’re hoping is going to be an attractive situ­ation for Mike and his wife.” 
The Predators hope to have his work visa completed Friday so he can be in the lineup Saturday night against Colorado. 
Fisher told SENS TV on the Senators’ website that news of the trade was a bit of a shock that he still was trying to process. Going to Nashville made it easier because he said he is excited about being a part of the Predators. 
“They’re a very good team, and it’ll be kind of like going home for me. I’m sure my wife won’t be disappointed, either. But I think it’s a great place for me and family and everything,” Fisher said. 
Underwood issued a state­ment, saying Fisher and she will truly miss Ottawa. 
“Mike has been such a big part of the community, and I will never forget how they welcomed me with open arms,” she said. “We obvi­ously love Nashville, and the teams’ decision for him to now play with the Predators is an exciting opportunity for Mike. I support him wherever he plays!” 
Poile said the Predators always have liked Fisher and his game from his scoring to killing penalties and playing on the power play. He aver­ages more ice time per game than any forward on the Predators right now, and Fisher also is under contract for the next two seasons. 
“This is not a rental like a lot of deals are at the trading deadline, ” Poile said in a conference call. “Mike is signed for the next two years so this is a deal that is hope­fully going to help us down the stretch this year, but hopefully help us for a lot of years to come.” 

The teams began talking about this trade a week ago, and this deal is costly for Predators. 
The club is sending its first-round pick in the 2011 draft and a conditional pick in 2012 — which would be a third -rounder if the Predators win a playoff series this year. The pick will escalate if the team wins two or more postseason series. 
But Nashville is desperate to advance past the opening playoff round after reaching the postseason five times in the past six years, and Poile didn’t have to part with any of his highly prized prospects or anyone on his roster to make this deal. 
Nashville currently is five points behind first -place Detroit in the Central. Ottawa is last in the Southeast Division with 42 points. 
“It’s a fine line here in the NHL, ” Poile said. “We ’re obviously banking that Mike Fisher, along with the parts we already have, will just kind of complete our forward line and just make us a little bit better.” 
Fisher, 30, has 28 points in 75 postseason games, which immediately makes him the most experienced in the play­offs on the Predators’ roster. He helped Ottawa go past the first round four out of six playoff appearances, includ­ing the 2007 Stanley Cup Finals and the 2003 Eastern Conference finals. 
The 11 -year veteran has 167 goals and 181 assists in 675 regular-season games, all with the Senators. He was a finalist for the Selke Trophy as the NHL’s top defensive forward in 2006, and the 6-foot-1, 208-pound forward had career-highs with 53 points and 25 goals and 10 power-play goals last season. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Hardy’s play leads St. John’s past Huskies 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — Dwight Hardy scored a career-high 33 points and St. John's took command in the second half in an 89-72 victory over No. 10 Connecticut on Thursday night, the Red Storm's fourth win over a top-13 team this season at Madison Square Garden. 
Hardy was coming off a 32­point effort in a loss to UCLA on Saturday. 
D.J. Kennedy matched his season high with 20 points and had 11 rebounds for St. John's (14-9, 6-5 Big East), which added Connecticut to a list that includes then-No. 13 Georgetown, then-No. 9 Notre Dame and then-No. 3 Duke, all of whom are currently in the top 10. The Red Storm are 6-1 at the Garden, their sec­ond home court. 
The Huskies (18-4, 6-5) had trouble all game with St. John's matchup zone, which trapped ballhandlers repeat­edly. They rarely attacked the basket, passing the ball around the perimeter usually settling for a rushed jumper. 
The Red Storm closed the first half with two 3-pointers by Hardy and Malik Boothe, the second a 35-footer banker from straight on as the buzzer sounded for a 35-31 lead. 
Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun walked on to the court complaining that Boothe walked before he shot. 
Calhoun was called for a tech­nical foul — his first of the season — so St. John's started the second half with two free throws by Hardy, and Kennedy scored on a layup on the ensuing possession. 
Dwayne Polee II and Kennedy scored around four missed shots by the Huskies and the Red Storm had a 43­31 lead 2 minutes into the half. 
Things got worse for the Huskies who kept missing shots and didn't get back quick enough on defense as the lead grew to 24 points, 69­45, on Hardy's third 3-pointer in a 5-minute span — and he also had two traditional three-point plays in the run. The 89 points were the most allowed this season by Connecticut. 
Roscoe Smith had 16 points to lead Connecticut, which shot 36.9 percent from the field (24 of 65) but more importantly allowed the Red Storm to shoot 48.4 percent (30 of 62), well above the con-ference-leading 38.3 it entered the game with. 
Kemba Walker, second in the league in scoring at 23.2 points per game, had 15 points and was 4 of 16 from the field, including 4 of 7 from 3-point range. Freshman Jeremy Lamb, who averaged 
17.1 points on 56.8 percent shooting over the Huskies' last six games, finished with 13 and was 5 of 16 from the field, including 2 of 7 on 3s. 


CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Some Arrested Devlopment quotes:  Michael: Yes, it’s Michael for Barry.  
FOR RENT  NOTICES  Tobias Fünke: Are you calling me a  Barry Zuckerkorn: [to his secretary] I'm not here.  Lucille: The company is in danger.  
coward?  Barry's Secretary: Barry's not in  Michael: What tipped you off? The  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't  Warden Stefan Gentles: There's  right now. Would you like to leave  falling profit margins or the fact that  
GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT  go it alone. Notre Dame has many  only one man I've ever called a  her a message?  we're a regular feature on Bill  
RENTAL: House for rent for gradua- If you or someone you care about  resources in place to assist you. If  coward, and that's Brian Doyle  Michael: Yeah, tell her she needs to  O'Reilly's most ridiculous item of  
tion/JPW/weddings,football, etc.  has been sexually assaulted, we  you or someone you love needs  Murray. No, what I'm calling you is  whisper a little softer next time,  the day?  
Perfect location-right next to the  can help. For more information, visit  confidential support or assistance,  a television actor.  AND I'm not paying for this call.  ———————————————  
new Eddy Street Commons-walk to  Notre Dames website:  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819.  Tobias Fünke: Ouch.  Barry Zuckerkorn: I am not a girl,  
everything-safe family oriented  http://csap.nd.edu  For more information, visit ND's  ———————————————  you...  Lucille Austero: Today at lunch, you  
street. Email nd-house@sbcglob­ website at: http://pregnancysup­ Barry's Secretary: [pulls out a tape  were ashamed to be with me.  
al.net for additional info and photos  port@nd.edu  Tobias Fünke: Michael, you are  recorder] Go ahead, call me some- Gob: No. I was ashamed to be seen  
quite the cupid. You can stick an  thing. I'm redecorating my kitchen.  with you. I like being with you.  
arrow in my buttocks any time.  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Friday, February 11, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 


Falcons 
continued from page 16 
with their speed. 
“They’re a very hard­working team [and they create] a lot of puck pres­sure,” Jackson said. “They’ve given a lot of peo­ple problems this year, and they haven’t gotten reward­ed for it.” 
Lavin says he and his fel­low defensemen will be the key to picking up six points in the conference race this weekend. 
“We just need to play good defense,” he said. “When we play good defense, we translate that to good offense.” 
Ridderwall will make his full return from a lower body injury after he saw limited time in the Miami series. In addition, sopho­more goaltender Mike Johnson will split time with freshman goaltender Steven Summerhays. Jackson had not made a decision on his starter as of Thursday night. 
Despite the Falcons’ struggles, Ridderwall expects a fast, physical series. 
“I can only imagine they’re going to be hungry and want to go out there and prove themselves every game,” he said. “They’re going to be fast, they’re going to come at us. I think it’s going to be pretty quick. I’m very excited.” 
The Irish host Bowling Green at 7:35 p.m. Friday night in the Joyce Center and return to that same venue at 7:05 p.m. Saturday night. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 

ND DIVING 

Irish dive into Big EastChampionships 

By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame diving team will head to Louisville, Ky., for the Big East champi­onships this weekend, where the women’s squad will look to claim its 15th straight con­ference title while the men try to reclaim the title from the host Cardinals. 
Coming off a season marked by significant and constant improvement, the men’s team will compete for the first time since the Shamrock Invitational in late January. Senior Wesley Villaflor placed first at last year’s Big East meet from both the one-meter and the three-meter board, but remains focused on exe­cuting in this year’s tourna­ment. 
“[We want to] really try to get each half-point we can and try to increase our scores by as much as possible,” he said. 
Villlaflor is part of a trio of seniors that includes school-record holder Eric Lex and anchors the Irish diving squad. The upperclassmen will lead the rest of the male divers as they try to set the tone for the swimmers. 
“[Last year,] each of us had one of our best meets of the year, so that really helped get the swimmers motivated, and I think that’s also really important this year,” Villaflor said. 
On the women’s side, senior diving captain Heidi Grossman said the team worked this week to improve its six competition dives, ulti­mately mimicking the typical meet routine. 
“We have just been trying to have great practices this week,” she said. “Every prac­tice counts.” 
Grossman said the divers hope to gain momentum as they open competition this weekend. 
“As a team, I want our divers to do well so that going into the swimming portion of the meet next week, we already have a lead over all the teams in the Big East,” she said. “Personally, I want to dive well and end my sea­son with my best meet so far.” 
Grossman identified confi­dence as the key to a success­ful performance from the Irish. 
“It is important to have con­fidence going into the champi­onship, and not to get dis­couraged or worried because of a couple not so great prac­tices,” Grossman said. “Even though it is a big meet, we have all done our dives hun­dreds of times before and know how to compete.” 
The diving championships begin today and conclude Sunday. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 11, 2011 
Sabre 
continued from page 16 
well. The Irish will look to carry that all-around success into this weekend in Durham. 
While this dual has a small field, it contains three other elite teams in Duke, North Carolina and Johns Hopkins. 
Irish coach Janusz Bednarksi said that this weekend is criti­cal in putting an exclamation point on the season and is important for postseason posi­tioning. 
“This weekend we are still trying to finish the season with good numbers and victories. We’d like to defend our nation­al position in the polls,” Bednarski said. “We are travel­ing to Duke with the men’s team only but it will be very decisive for our position before the Midwest Conference Championships.” 
Bednarski said he has high expectations for this year’s squad because of the chemistry amongst the team. 
“This team is different from other years by big cooperation between the team,” Bednarski said. “All the members are cooperating within the team much more than in years past, making us more of a family. We are winning together and losing together.” 
The Duke Duals will com­mence with the women compet­ing on Saturday, while the men will hit the mat on Sunday. 
Contact Joseph Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
MLB 
Chargesfor Bonds cut downby10 
Associated Press 
Major League Baseball’s home run leader still faces the same punishment he always has, but the paring of the charges still underscored the troubles prosecutors have encountered since indicting him for the first time in 2007 for allegedly lying to a grand jury about his steroids use. Bonds has pleaded not guilty. 
The indictment unsealed Thursday was the third ver­sion of the charges against Bonds. The document reflects the hit the government’s case took when the slugger’s per­sonal trainer made clear his willingness to go to jail on contempt of court charges instead of testifying against his former client. 
The trainer, Greg Anderson, has already served more than a year in prison for refusing to testify before the grand jury investigating Bonds. Anderson, who prosecutors allege supplied Bonds with steroids, is scheduled to appear in court before Bonds’ March 21 trial to for­mally tell the judge of his plans for the trial. Anderson’s attorney, Mark Geragos, said Anderson will reiterate his refusal to take the witness stand. It’s likely that Anderson will be jailed for the duration of the trial, which is expected to last up to a month. 


midst of an e i g h t -g a m e stretch in which only one oppo­ “They’re playing well. They have a great post game and really good  c o n f e r e n c e and enter the game only 2 1/2 games  
nent has man­aged to stay within single digits.  guards. They are possibly the most talented team we have  behind the Irish. Notre Dame defeated Rutgers on the  
The balance the Irish have  faced since Connecticut.”  road 75-63 in the teams’ only  
displayed during the streak has  Muffet McGraw  meeting dur­ing the 2009­ 
been outstand- Irish coach  10 season.  
ing.  In  their  “ T h e y ’ r e  
blowout of Seton  playing well,”  

Hall earlier this week, six players McGraw said. “They have a great reached double-digit scoring post game and really good totals. guards. They are possibly the 
Junior guard Natalie Novosel most talented team we have faced has been especially impressive as since Connecticut.” of late, scoring 19 and 16 points The Irish and the Scarlet against South Florida and Seton Knights will tip off tomorrow Hall, respectively. afternoon at 2 p.m. at Purcell 
“She’s been a good scorer all Pavilion. season long for us,” McGraw said. “She has been strong in the tran-Contact Andrew Owens at sition game. Skylar [Diggins] has aowens2@nd.edu 

Eight 
continued from page 16 
victory over Seton Hall at the Purcell Pavilion on Tuesday. The Irish are playing their best bas­ketball of the season, in the been able to get her the ball on the fast break. Also, she has been playing better defensively and has gotten a lot of steals, which have created opportunities in transi­tion.” 
The Scarlet Knights (14-9, 7-3 
Big East), however, are currently tied for fifth place in the 

Friday, February 11, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 


Control 
continued from page 16 
“We need to control the tempo more and dictate what happens.” 
With only three seniors on the roster, Cal will look to lean heavily on its under­classmen. The Irish, mean­while, return all but two starters and boast six sen­iors. 
All-American seniors Jackie Doherty and Blaney were both unanimously named preseason All-Big East. Joining Blaney and Doherty on the All-Big East team is midfielder Kailene Abt. Coyne also reeled in the No. 4 recruiting class in the country, prompting a predict­ed third-place Big East finish. 
“We have excellent senior leadership. This core group has been contributing since their freshman year,” Coyne said. “This is a veteran group with a lot of experience.” 
Last season, the Irish lost four games decided by two goals or less — including two in overtime — on their way to an 11-7 record and an NCAA tournament berth. Stanford, however, went 3-0 in overtime a year ago and won the MPSF tournament championship before a first-round exit in the NCAA tour­nament. 
The No. 14 Cardinal enter this season as the preseason favorite in the MPSF. Led by senior two-time reigning MPSF Player of the Year mid­fielder Lauren Schmitt, Stanford will be hunting for their third NCAA appearance in program history. 
“They are a very well coached team that is very similar to our team,” Coyne said. “They have great ath­letes and intelligent players.” 
The Cardinal will look to use their home field advan­tage just as well as last sea­son, when they went 11-0 in Palo Alto. One major factor is that Stanford’s Cagan Stadium is natural grass, a change from the artificial turf the Irish are used to. 
“There is no easy road to a championship and Stanford is a very tough place to play,” Coyne said. “We’ve been there when the band, the cheerleaders and the [Stanford mascot] Tree were all there.” 
The Irish face Cal for possi­bly the final time at 8 p.m. on Friday and conclude their west coast trip with a 2 p.m. tilt Saturday against Stanford. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

MEN’S TENNIS 
Irishhopeto compensate for injuries 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 25 Irish will look to carry the momentum from a win on the road at Wisconsin into their doubleheader in East Lansing this weekend against Marquette and Michigan State. 
“Playing two good teams in one day really is a tough chore, especially on the road,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “Adjusting to the faster courts will be important, as well as being able to go back-to-back that day. A couple of our guys are a little nicked up, so we are going to have to play oppor­tunistically Saturday.” 
The Irish have had a rough schedule to open their spring season, but the depth of their team is helping them stay strong. 
With the addition of the freshmen to an already strong lineup that didn’t lose any starters last season, the Irish are very deep and have many options in each match. 
“Our freshmen have been great,” Bayliss said. “Greg Andrews has been a superstar so far and our older guys respect him. Billy Pecor has been injured but keeps working diligently with our trainer, Tony Sutton, to rehab his knees. He is going to be a very good play­er here, perhaps a great one.” 
One of the keys to the Irish strength this season has been their doubles play. The Irish have captured the doubles point in six of their seven matches this season. 
The only time the Irish didn’t earn the doubles point was against No. 1 Virginia. 
Bayliss said his team has had strong play around the net and on their return game, which has also been key. 
Notre Dame will be ready for a tough challenge from Michigan State, which upset No. 21 Wake Forest last week. 
“[The Spartans] won’t be able to sneak up on us, as our guys are very aware of the chal­lenge,” Bayliss said. “We will need to be judicious in whom we play in each match. David Anderson was injured earlier in the year, but looks ready to go now, and Blas Moros is rested. This gives us some flexibility we did not have a year ago.” 
The Irish will face Marquette at 11 a.m. and will play Michigan State afterward. 
Notre Dame will then head to the National Team Indoor Championships in Charlottesville, Va., on Feb. 18. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 11, 2011 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles join opposing Albion forPinkZonegame 
By LAURA COLETTI Sports Writer  Yow Cancer Fund. “Albion is a big game for us,” B e l l e s  rupt their offense.” The Belles’ last game was almost a week  there are always areas for improvement. “We still had some unforced  With only three regular-sea­son games remaining, the Belles are looking ahead and  
c  o a  c  h  ago,  when  they  turnovers  that  we  need  to  are hopeful for a strong post- 
Winning will not be Saint Mary’s only objective this weekend in a trip to Albion.  J e n n i f e r H e n l e y said. “They  “We still had some unforced turnovers that  defeated Trine 68­57. Henley hopes her team contin­ limit, and we need to finish our shots in the paint,” Henley said.  season showing. “At this point we are certain­ly looking to host the last three  
Not only will the Belles (15-7, 8-5) be looking to improve their MIAA record, but they will be playing for a cause, as  have very solid guard play and their post  we need to limit, and we need to fnish our shots in the paint.”  ues to play well. “I thought we did a great job on the boards against  With a whole week between games, the Belles have had ample time for preparation. “Having a week between  games and be able to host the first round of MIAA play,” Henley said. “In postseason play, anything can happen. We  
they  join  forces  with  the  p l  a  y  e  r  Trine,”  Henley  games has been good for us,”  are going to take one game at  
Britons (12-10, 10-3) to partic­ipate in the Women’s Basketball Coaches’  [junior cen­ter Patty Rewa] is  Jennifer Henley Belles coach  said. “I thought we had a solid defen­sive effort the  Henley said. “It allowed our team to catch up and work ahead academically, and it  a time and work very hard to extend our season.” Saint Mary’s tips off at Albion  
Association Pink Zone initia­ having  a  entire game and I  allows a much-needed rest all  at 3 p.m. Saturday.  
tive, to raise  awareness  for  great year.  really  like  our  the way around. We have been  
breast  cancer. Proceeds from  We  need  to  focus  on  our  transition game.”  able to refocus for the last  Contact Laura Coletti at  
the game will support the Kay  defense and find ways to dis- Henley also recognizes that  stretch of the season.”  lcoletti@nd.edu  


GRANT TOBIN/The Observer Senior guard Ben Hansbrough takes a shot as he collides with Louisville guard Chris Smith on Wednesday. 


Bulls 
continued from page 16 
Eve in Hartford, and a week later, they played then-No. 7 Villanova tough through the first half before the Wildcats’ shooters took over in the sec­ond half. In addition, they led Louisville at the half at the Sun Dome in their Jan. 6 matchup. 
“Well, as one of our former football coaches once said, they give scholarships too,” Irish coach Mike Brey told UND.com. “They’ve got good players, they’re really athletic — they’re huge — and we have to be very ready to play. You know, if we’re not ready to play, we can flat out get beat in Tampa. Every time we’ve played down there — two wins and one loss — it’s been a dog­fight. I’m concerned about us rebounding the basketball with the size that they put on the floor.” 
With USF’s size advantage in mind, the biggest concern for the Irish will be containing 6­foot-10, 245-pound junior for­ward Augustus Gilchrist, who leads the Bulls with 12.3 points per game. He ranks second on the team with 6.6 rebounds per game, just behind 6-foot-8 jun­ior forward Ron Anderson Jr.’s 
6.7 boards per game. Senior forward-center Jarrid Famous rounds out the USF frontcourt at 6-foot-11 and adds 8.7 points and 5.7 rebounds per game. As a team, the Bulls rank 65th nationally in rebounds per game while the Irish are 80th. 
As the Irish continue to pur­sue their stated goal of winning the Big East’s regular season title, games like the one against the Bulls become must-wins if Notre Dame wants to keep pace in the Big East standings and improve their chances for a top seed in the NCAA tourna­ment. Brey, however, knows that his Irish will get USF’s best shot. 
“Marquette escaped with their life,” Brey said. “[South Florida] will have a lot of ener­gy [and] nothing to lose against us. Guys that maybe aren’t great shooters all of a sudden will be good shooters for a half, hopefully not a game. We have to understand that it’s a huge game, that we can win three in a row on the road — something this group hasn’t done yet — and get to 10 league wins.” 
Notre Dame tips off against South Florida at noon at the USF Sun Dome in Tampa on Saturday. The game can be seen live on ESPN3.com. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 


Friday, February 11, 2011 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 



JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE
JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $75 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports

Friday, February 11, 2011 page 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Quest to Big East season title continues 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a scintillating 89­79 overtime win over No. 16 Louisville, No. 8 Notre Dame will hit the road and look to avoid a trap game against South Florida. 
While the Irish (20-4, 9-3 Big East) currently sit in second place in the conference and the Bulls (8-17, 2-10) find them­selves second from the bottom, Notre Dame hardly expects to cruise to an easy victory in sunny Florida. As the Irish bat­tled the Cardinals Wednesday night in their classic matchup, USF led by as many as 16 points in the second half against Marquette before the Golden Eagles rebounded to steal a one-point victory. The Bulls also took then-No. 4 Connecticut to overtime before falling 66-61 on New Year’s 
see BULLS/page 14 
Tampa test 

GRANT TOBIN/The Observer Senior forward Tyrone Nash drives to the basket against two Lousiville defenders. The Irish won 89-79 and will play South Florida at noon Saturday. 
FENCING 
NotreDame remains undefeated 
By JOSEPH WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
Coming off an undefeated performance at the Northwesters Duals, the Irish fencing team will travel south to Durham, N.C., this weekend to compete in the Duke Duals. 
The Northwestern Duals was one of the high points for the Irish the season. Between the two teams, Notre Dame went 12-0, with the men winning five and the women notching seven victories. Seniors Avery Zuck and Ewa Nelip led the Irish to the win with an 18-1 combined record and hope to carry that momentum into this weekend’s dual. 
The sabre was the most suc­cessful weapon for Notre Dame at the Northwestern meet, but the epeeists and foilists had their fair share of success as 
see SABRE/page 12 
HOCKEY 

Jackson anxious to face Bowling Green after bye week 
coach Jeff Jackson is some-“We shouldn’t be flat, we had into the playoffs.” season,” Lavin said. “We just
By ALLAN JOSEPH 

what concerned that his team a week off,” he said. “It was Ridderwall thinks early have to keep to our game plan.
Sports Writer 

will take some time to get its good for us. We had some fun, aggressiveness will be key for We’re working hard — as long aggressiveness flowing again. we got to loosen up a little bit, the Irish. as we do that and have fun, we 
Sitting one point behind first-“Their competitive edge after but we worked extra hard in “We need to play smart,” he should be fine.” place Miami in the CCHA a bye week is always a factor, practice.” said. “We need to come out Jackson said the primary standings, No. 10 Notre Dame especially early in the game,” Senior forward Calle early on and feel that we’ve focus of the weekend will be to begins the final six-game Jackson said. “We’ve done a lot Ridderwall thinks taking some still got it. A couple hits early keep pace in the CCHA race. stretch of the regular season of scrimmage situations to try time off was good for him and wouldn’t hurt — being aggres-“It’s not a matter of revenge,” this weekend by welcoming to simulate playing, and we try his teammates. sive early would be huge.” he said. “We just have to play Bowling Green to the Joyce to make sure that our practices “Being able to get an extra Notre Dame traveled to well. There’s a lot at stake as Center. are game-like to make sure we week’s rest was great,” he said. Bowling Green (8-19-3, 3-16-3-we move through the last three 
The Irish (16-9-5, 13-6-3-2) don’t lose that edge.” “Guys have been working hard 1) in November and was disap-weeks of the season.” took last weekend off after an For his part, senior captain for a long period of time, so pointed to split a pair of The Falcons will test the Irish emotional series against the Joe Lavin doesn’t think the getting that weekend off is games. RedHawks, and Notre Dame Irish will have trouble. important especially coming “It was a little bit early in the see FALCONS/page 11 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish seek ninth straight win 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
Riding an eight-game winning streak, the No. 8 Irish will attempt to make it nine in a row this weekend before preparing for the most important game of the season, against No. 2 Connecticut. But before they get a rematch against the Huskies, they will have to stay focused on one of the Big East’s tougher teams — Rutgers. 
“There won’t be any problem focusing on Rutgers,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “This is a huge game for us. We came out after South Florida and played well. We’re really focused on this game.” 
Notre Dame (21-4, 10-1 Big East) cruised to an easy 89-38 
see EIGHT/page 12 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Season opener set for California on Friday 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 

The campuses of Cal and Stanford — which both open their season against Notre Dame — lie a mere 47 miles apart. By the end of the sea­son, however, the two pro­grams will be worlds apart. 
The No. 10 Irish open their season on Friday night in Berkeley against the Golden Bears, who are in their final season of women’s lacrosse due to budget cuts. Cal has also lost its home field, Memorial Stadium to renova­tions and will be playing in Witter Rugby Field. 
“The lacrosse community was very disappointed. We never want to see colleagues lose jobs or athletes not be able to compete,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. “We’re expecting it to be a competi­tive game; they’re fighting to have their program reinstat­ed.” 
Last year, the Irish defeated Cal 14-12 in overtime behind the strength of current senior midfielder Shaylyn Blaney’s four goals and senior attack Ansley Stewart’s go-ahead goal in overtime. 
“We need to control the ball better [than last year’s game] and we took too many unnec­essary risks,” Coyne said. 
see CONTROL/page 13 


Photo Illustration by Dan Jacobs and Blair Chemidlin 
page 2 The Observer . ELECTION 2011 Friday, February 11, 2011 
Ricky Bevington president vice president Olivia Colangelo 


Who TheyAre: 
Presidential candi­date RickyBevington is a sophomore in Sorin College and director of the First Undergraduate Experience in Leadership (FUEL) program. He is a Program of Liberal Studies major. Olivia Colangelo is ajunior in McGlinn Hall, where sheservesashallpres­ident. She is a civil engineeringmajor. 
In their words 
.Top Priority: Bevington and Colangelo cite University teamwork as one of their main goals, and their top priority is to put a student voice ontheUniversity’sBoardofTrustees. 
.First Priority:Ifelected,thisticket’sfirstmovewill be to install printers in all academic buildings, espe­ciallyO’ShaughnessyHall,forstudents’convenience. 
In our words 
.Best Idea: An annual State of the University address. Different leadership groups on campus would share with the Notre Dame community their goals for the year and their plans for achieving these goals. 
.Worst Idea: Creating a dorm equality commission to compare and correct differences in dorm experi­ences would not be efficient or necessary. Each dorm has a unique style, and hall councils can more effec­tively address any problems in dorm experience than anoverarchingcommittee. 
.Most Feasible Idea: Printers in all the academic buildings. Many academic buildings have printing sta­tionsalready,sothisgoalisdefinitelywithinreach. 

.Least Feasible Idea: Stepan Center pep rallies for more sports. Even football pep rallies are not always well-attended. 
.Fun Facts: Bevington and Colangelo have known each other since they were 12 years-old. The two attended the same middle school and high school in Pittsburgh,Pa. 
.Notable Quote: “Students aren’t just people who live here part of the year. They’re people that really care about [South Bend] and really want to get involved, and we want to be able to show that”-Bevington 
Bottom Line 
Bevington and Colangelo’s ideas apply to a broad rangeofstudentconcerns.Someoftheirideasmaybe logistically difficult but their core goals of university teamwork, student body unity and student govern­mentefficiencyareasolidbasefortheirplatform. 
Pat McCormick president vice president Brett Rocheleau 
Who They Are 
Presidential candi­date Patrick McCormick, a junior from Keough Hall, is a political science and Peace Studies major. Vice presidential can­didate Brett Rocheleau is a sopho­more finance and math major from Keenan Hall. McCormick is current­ly the chair of the Social Concerns Committee for student government, and he serves on the student advisory board at the Center for Social Concerns. Rocheleau is sophomore class president. 
In Their Words 
.Top Priority: McCormick and Rocheleau plan to make Notre Dame the premier forum for events uniting public figures to advocate for social justice. They hope to create a series of events modeled after this year’s PlayingforPeace tournament. 
.First Priority: The ticket plans to broaden stu­dent government so it can work on multiple issues simultaneously and be more responsive to students’ desires. 
In Our Words 
.Best Idea: Using the influence of the University and its athletic brand to host a series of nationally recognized events on campus to promote social jus­tice. Notre Dame athletics could be a recognizable andpowerfulface for these causes. 
.Worst Idea: Creating a space on campus for stu­dents andfaculty to meet in an informal setting over drinks. Legendsalreadyoffersarestaurant andpub. 
.Most Feasible Idea: Increasing student partici­pation in local elementary school programs and inviting middle school students to “shadow” Notre Dame students with similar interests. The Center for 

Who TheyAre:. 

Student body presidential candidate Catherine Soler, a junior from Farley Hall, is an accounting major. Vice presidential candidate Emily LeStrange is a political science and American Studies double major, formerly of Howard Hall and cur­rently living off campus. Soler is the cur­rent student bodypresident andLeStrange serves as Off-campus Concerns chair in StudentSenate. 
In Their Words . 

.Top Priority: Soler and LeStrange plan to make student government a resource for student needs, with services ranging from tutoring, expanded sexual assault resources and a basketball ticket exchange. 
.First Priority: The ticket pledges to enhance dorm life through talks with school administration, rectors and hall presidents. Soler and LeStrange hope to 

make changes, like improvingkitchen sup­plies and offering student input in hiring rectors. 
In Our Words. 

.Best Idea:Soler andLeStrange wantto get student input on what fast food restaurants will occupy the LaFortune Student Center when leases begin to expire in 2012. They also plan to givestudentsmoresayinwhatitemsaresoldattheHuddle. 
.Worst Idea: Study Space availability assistance. The team wants to design an interactive website to help students find open study spaces on campus, but the real problem is the rush of students ambushing study spaces around midterms and finals. 
.Most Feasible Idea: The ticket’s Student Employment Reform andJobFair is atwo-pronged approach to improve on­campusemployment.Revampingthecurrentjobboardrequires some technological streamlining but is plausible. Additionally, thisyearhasprovedcampusfairs,suchastheoff-campushous­ingfair,canbeeffectiveforstudentneeds. 
Social Concerns already collaborates with over 60 local organizations. 
.Least Feasible Idea: Granting club status to a gay-straight student support group and encouraging the Office ofInstitutionalEquity to add sexual orien­tation to its nondiscrimination clause. These groups have been denied recognition by Notre Dame’s administration numerous times. 
.Fun Facts: Rocheleau has webbed toes andloves to watch “Glee,” and two of McCormick’s role mod­els are Disney charactersRafiki andthe MadHatter. 
.Notable Quote: “Keenan was built as a bomb shelter during the Cold War, so when the fire alarm goes off, I’m like, this thing’s gonna go down with a slow simmer; it’s not going to burn down.” – Rocheleau onhis residence hall 
Bottom Line 
McCormick and Rocheleau offer a wide range of proposals related to social concerns and the University’s mission. Their ideas involve restructur­ing student government and altering the role of stu­dent body president to focus on large-scale social justice issues in addition to continuing to focus on everyday student needs. 

Friday, February 11, 2011 The Observer . ELECTION 2011 page 3 
James Ward president vice president Heather Eaton 

WhoTheyAre 
Student body presi­dential candidate James J. Ward, current junior class president, is an aerospace engi­neeringmajorwholives in St. Edward’s Hall. Vice presidential candi­date and current fresh­man class president Heather Eaton lives in CavanaughHall. 
InTheirWords 
.Top Priority: Ward and Eaton plan to put in the framework for eventualtuitionreform. 
“We want to release financial aid informa­tion and make every­thingfair,”Wardsaid. 
.First Priority: They plantorestoretheprice of quarter dogs to 25 centsandaddmorepointstoGrabn’Go. 
Inourwords 
.Best Idea: Addressing the campus drinking policy. Removing the policy against drinking and drinking gameswillkeepstudentsoncampus,accordingtoWard and Eaton. The ban on drinking games isn’t cutting down on binge drinking, Ward said, but instead drives studentsoffcampus. 
.Worst Idea: Creatinganoff-campuscrimedatabase to track the safety of neighborhoods for current and potential residents. While parts of this plan are new, including landlord reviews, there is already a crime databaseinplace. 
.Most Feasible Idea: Creating a fall week to kick off the football season. Ward said a“FallAnTostal,” would hopefully be a joint effort between the Student Union Boardandclasscouncils. 


.Least Feasible Idea: Working for the inclusion of sexual orientation in the nondiscrimination clause. Efforts to achieve this goal have been denied by the Universityadministrationforseveralyears. 
..Fun Facts: Eaton has double-jointed elbows. Ward was once avegetarian, but then he rediscovered chick­en. 
.Notable Quote:“My brother is a sophomore in high school,andhe’sinfinitelysmarterthanme.Hewantsto gohere.Iwanttomakesurehehasanevenbettertime herethanIdid.”–Ward 
BottomLine 

Ward and Eaton have a well-rounded platform, and their smaller, reachable goals are mixed in with lofty aspirations for the future ofNotre Dame. While making studentgovernmentmoreapproachableisanadmirable promise, the ticket lacks concrete plans for this lofty goal. 
Kevin Noonan president vice president Matthew Thomas 
Who They Are:. 
Freshmen Kevin Noonan and Matt Thomas represent Zahm House this year, running on its annual ticket for the student body presi­dent and vice presi­dent. Although many students think their campaign is simply a chance for the resi­dents of Zahm to poke fun at student government, Noonan, who writes for The Observer’s Scene section, said his motivation lies deep­er. 
“I’m doing this solely to make friends,” Noonan said. “I have yet to.” 
In Their Words . 
.Top Priority: Noonan and Thomas said they plan to construct a giant magic dome over cam­pus through which they can control the weather as well as the surrounding scenery. 
“Something like The Truman Show mixed with the dining hall from Harry Potter,” Noonan said. 
.First Priority: The pair said their first act after being elected would be banning vegans from campus. 
“I’m sensing some kind of conspiracy going on there,” Noonan said. “They’re doing something, and we plan on finding out what.” 
This act would be followed closely by the elimi­nation of Keenan Hall, Thomas said. 
In Our Words. 
.Best Idea: “Hangover Hours” in the dining halls on Saturdays and Sundays from 2-4 p.m. Students schedules often vary on weekends, and more flexible hours at the dining halls would prove helpful for many. 
.Most Feasible Idea: None. 



.Least Feasible Idea:Taxireform,whileastrongidea,would be difficult to implement. Although students use taxis regularly, thistaskmightbetoolarge. 
..Fun Facts:Soler, anative ofOyster Bay, N.Y., only eats New York pizza, and LeStrange is proud of her nickname “Bellatrix” afterthe“HarryPotter”villain. 
.Notable Quote: “Emily and I wouldbe honored to serve the studentbody andhope that our experience is an advantage.” — Soler 
Bottom Line 
Soler and LeStrange tout their experience and current posi­tions in student government as instrumental in the transition period in between student government administrations. Their top priority of using student government as a greater resource for students seems obvious and somewhat vague, buttheir plat­form contains specific goals such as a heated bus stop and a multicultural food festival. Given their experience, their goals are all feasible. They would also continue current relationships 
.Least Feasible Idea: The construction of a new food court in place of Keenan Hall. Keenan will most likely remain standing, and LaFortune Student Center with its many eateries is less than five minutes away from the proposed food court. 
.. Fun Facts : Noonan has appeared as a “before” model on many commercials such as Hydroxycut and Acutane. Thomas was on the famous team of wizards that defeated Lord Voldemort. 
. Notable Quote: “Lower standards, fewer memories, that’s how I live my life,” Noonan, on his outlook on life, which he plans to establish at Notre Dame. 
Bottom Line 

Noonan and Thomas continue an annual Zahm Hall tradition by running for student body presi­dent and vice president with no prior student gov­ernment experience and a very slim chance of winning the election. The election could be tense with so many names on the ballots, but Noonan and Thomas offer both a nice break from the solemn atmosphere, as well as some good enter­tainment for the student body. 
page 4 The Observer . ELECTION 2011 Friday, February 11, 2011 
 AJORITY OPINION 

The Observer endorses Soler-LeStrange ticket 
Experienced candidates offer feasible, realistic campaign promises based on day-to-day needs of student body 
Editor’s note: Each year, The dent Catherine Soler and vice standardize what is offered, Bookstore, one of her main accomplishment of spearhead­Observer’s Editorial Board presidential candidate Emily for example, through working promises when she cam-ing the Stand for Sudan rally meets with all of the candi-LeStrange, Off-Campus Council with rectors and hall presi-paigned to lead the student and Playing for Peace basket-dates for student body presi-chair in Student Senate, have dents to ensure that each body last year. ball tournament earlier this dent and vice president. experience in student govern-dorm has relatively equal fit-Soler also began to commu-school year, he proved he can 
This week, the board had a ment and suggest 
ness equipment nicate regularly with law advance his social justice meeting with each ticket, dur-ideas such as stu-and kitchen sup-enforcement when alcohol-goals. ing which the candidates pre-dent employment plies. related student arrests soared But is this the role of the stu­sented the most important reform. The pair also at the beginning of the school dent body president? parts of their platforms and The ticket of Pat suggests smaller year. Her presence in the Like Soler, McCormick pro-answered questions from McCormick, chair ideas for campus meetings with law enforce-poses ideas to improve student Editorial Board members. of the Social improvement, such ment and University officials life. But the majority of the 
From this year’s five tickets, C o n c e r n s as installing lights helped to slow the rate of Editorial Board felt the dual all with ambitious ideas, the Committee in Student Senate, on McGlinn field, expanding arrests and work toward mission of achieving large Editorial Board was able to and running mate Brett tutoring resources and creat-improving the relationship social justice goals and insti­narrow its debate to two pairs Rocheleau, sophomore class ing a heated bus between the tuting improvements to life on of candidates. president, presents a com-stop at Library University and campus was not feasible, espe-
While the majority of the pelling platform of uniting stu-Circle. the communi-cially in an institution known 
The role of the student 

board voted to endorse current dent government with larger Finally, Soler ty. Another for its inefficiency. student body president social justice causes. and LeStrange body president is frst term for Soler The role of the student body Catherine Soler and her run-The majority of the Editorial tout community and foremost to speak would create president is first and foremost ning mate Emily LeStrange, a Board backed Soler and relations as a continuity in to speak and work on behalf of 
and work on behalf of

number of members voted to LeStrange for the feasibility of primary focus of the student the students. McCormick’s first endorse Pat McCormick and their ideas that will directly their platform. the students ... Soler’s body’s rela-priority, as stated in his cam-Brett Rocheleau. affect student life — which, They hope to vision for student tionship with paign platform, is his social Beyond supporting different after debate, most board mem-build on Soler’s the communi-justice agenda. His goals are 
government focuses on

candidates, the majority and bers concluded is the student relationships ty. commendable, but are best dissenting opinions represent body president’s primary role. with local law day-to-day student W h i l e achieved in a different posi­different views of the role and Soler and LeStrange propose enforcement and needs. Her platform is Soler’s cam-tion. scope of student government a job fair to showcase the vari-community lead-paign focuses Soler’s vision for student 
standard. Yet her 

at Notre Dame. ous job opportunities on cam-ers. on student government focuses on day-to­
ideas are achievable

pus as well as a reform of the These objec-l i f e , day student needs. Her plat-The Observer Editorial current job board detailing tives are simple and would directly McCormick’s form is standard. Yet her ideas Board narrowed the endorse-campus employment opportu-and practical stated “to-do are achievable and would 
beneft the student 

ment discussion to two tickets: nities. The duo emphasizes the and Soler has item No. 1” is directly benefit the student 
body. 

one with simple and tangible difficulty students have finding shown she can to use student body. ideas to enhance student life on-campus employment, and tackle the ideas government to We, the majority of The on and off campus and one pledge to improve it. she has outlined. make Notre Observer Editorial Board, with a sweeping vision of They also promote a plan to As student body president, Dame the premier forum for endorse Catherine Soler and change within the Office of the improve dorm life by examin-Soler quickly implemented the national social justice goals. Emily LeStrange for Notre Student Body President. ing the discrepancies among Rent-a-Text system in the He has contacts in Dame’s student body president 
Current student body presi-residence halls and working to Hammes Notre Dame Washington, D.C., and his and vice president. 
DISSENTING OPINION 

McCormick and Rocheleau offer new vision of leadership 
Ticket plans to expand student government, increase University’s involvement and influence in social justice issues 
Presidential candidate Pat In their campaign platform, Week” a yearly venture on benefit a worthwhile cause. but rather plan to fulfill those McCormick can summarize McCormick and Rocheleau behalf of student govern -This bold thought seems endeavors with the help of his platform’s greatest quali-show full awareness of the ment. feasible because McCormick their senators and the direc­ty and greatest flaw in a few relatively menial, yet neces-These jobs cannot be over-has accomplished similar tor of Constituent Services. simple, hypothetical ques-sary, day-to-day tasks of our looked in properly fulfilling projects before, though on a McCormick and Rocheleau tions. student government and, the roles of stu -
vastly smaller want to pave the way for 
“Are we going to have the more specifically, of the stu-dent body presi -scale. In Notre Dame students to make student government we have dent body president and vice dent and vice October, serving a larger difference. always had, or can we build president. president. Thus, as chair of the Would it be easier for these this bigger? ” McCormick For example, they hope to McCormick’s ticket Social Concerns two to focus simply on the asked the audience during return the price of Quarter plans to create a C o m m i t t e e , former set of goals? Of Wednesday ’s debate, not Dogs at the Huddle Mart to new director of McCormick led course. Are both sets attain-waiting for a response. “Can 25 cents rather than the 33 C o n s t i t u e n t the effort which able? Quite possibly. we re-imagine what student cents one currently costs. Services position to “coordi-resulted in the University-Can McCormick and government is about?” According to McCormick, the nate all constituent service wide “Stand with Sudan ” Rocheleau succeed in both 
McCormick’s 32-page plat-information he and efforts across student govern-rally and “Playing for Peace” regards? Their platform says form description embodies Rocheleau have gathered ment.” 3-on -3 basketball tourna -they believe they can, though the “bigger” student govern-says pricing the hot dogs at While this director tackles ment. These events raised of course they can’t really ment he and running mate 25 cents will cost the Huddle the inefficiencies of the awareness across campus know the answer. Neither can Brett Rocheleau envision. Mart some -Student Senate with the help of the men’s the Notre Dame students who They seek to establish Notre where around in an attempt to lacrosse and basketball may or may not vote for them Dame as the premier forum $2,500 and he The only way anyone meet these teams, and culminated in a Monday. This Editorial Board for events advocating social hopes student g o a l s , delegation from Notre Dame certainly does not have a
will learn if

justice using current contacts government McCormick and traveling to Washington, D.C., solid way to prove they can as well as the influence of the can supple -McCormick and Rocheleau will to spread the goal from the or cannot. University and its athletic ment those Rocheleau can fulfll spend their Notre Dame point of view. The only way anyone will brand, while simultaneously fees. time primarily Yes, the goals addressing learn if McCormick and 
their admirable

meeting students’ needs on The junior-focused on social concerns laid out in Rocheleau can fulfill their 
ambition of both

and around campus. s o p h o m o r e e x p a n d i n g McCormick and Rocheleau’s admirable ambition of both 
This broad, bold view, com-combination helping the students Notre Dame’s platform are much larger helping the students and bined with McCormick’s con-also hopes to role in social than a basketball tournament helping the students to help 
and helping the

tagious enthusiasm about the increase the justice. accompanied by a rally, but others is to let them have a
students to help others

potential future of such a undergradu -The two so are the capabilities of the chance. government, earned the votes ate print is to let them have a dream of a con-student body president when It is for this reason that we, 
of these members of The quota, renew cert following in compared to the capabilities the dissenting members of 
chance. 

Observer Editorial Board. Yet traditional the footsteps of of a Student Senate commit-The Observer Editorial this same broad, bold view dorm events “Hope for Haiti tee chairman. Board, endorse Pat also drove a majority of the such as Now,” uniting McCormick and Rocheleau McCormick and Brett Board away from this “Wake Week” and the “Fisher actors, entertainers and do not ignore the small things Rocheleau for student body endorsement. Zoo ” and make “Whine politicians in an attempt to they will need to attend to, president and vice president. 








