
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


App developers achieve top rankings 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Gridiron 2011 College Foot­ball, an Apple product appli­cation, ranked among the top Apple apps on the market this weekend and the credit went to two members of the faculty and staff at Notre Dame. 
Tom Klimek, manager of network design for the Office of Information Technology (OIT), and engineering pro­fessor Pete Massey created the Gridiron app and released it to the market three years ago. 
This weekend, the app grabbed top spots on Apple’s Top Paid Sports App list when it placed third for the iPad and 12th for the iPhone. 
Klimek and Massey re­leased this year’s version of the app in August. Like edi­tions released in its past two years, Gridiron 2011 allows users to access schedules and scores of the 120 Division IA college football teams. 
The app also features the outcomes of past games and stadium seating charts for fans scoping out tickets, he said. 
“If you’re looking for what teams are playing on a Sat­urday, you pick it on the app and it will show you all the games scheduled and when they play,” Klimek said. 

While the app is completely automated, Klimek said he and Massey scour the Inter­net daily and enter new infor­mation to ensure its informa­tion is up-to-date. 
“Every day we update sev-



College offers SPARK for local students’ goals 


By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
Thirteen local women jumpstarted their business dreams and career goals this summer, thanks to a program led by the Saint Mary’s Wom­en’s Entrepreneurship Initia­tive (WEI). 
Martha Smith, WEI project director, oversaw this sum­mer’s participants in SPARK, its entrepreneurship-training program that began in No-
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 
vember. 
“SPARK’s goal is to ignite the entrepreneurship fire within,” Smith said. 
Women in the training pro­gram developed business plans for a flea market, small deli, beauty shop, cleaning service, bilingual daycare, ice cream shop and even a wedding planner. 
“SPARK is a comprehensive entrepreneurship course that 

see SPARK/page 6 
eral files,” he said. “The app indicates on startup the new­est data from those down­loads.” 
Klimek said the college football tracker app’s popu­larity is based in its simplic­ity and speed. 
“Other apps are either prone to crashing or are so bloated with features and support for every sport it’s difficult to navigate to what you’re seeking,” Klimek said. “If you’re just looking for college football, that can be cumbersome.” 
Klimek’s goal for this year is to double the number of users. Based on reviews and the number of repeat custom­ers, Gridiron 2011 might be 


see APP/page 7 

ND officials reflect on evacuation 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
Saturday’s football game broke a Notre Dame record — but not because of the football team. 
For the first time ever in the University’s history, severe weather forced officials to evacuate fans from the Notre Dame Stadium. 
Twice. 

Mike Seamon, associate vice president for campus safety and director for Game Day Op­erations, said he was happy with the way stadium person­nel handled the evacuations. 
“For never having done it before in the history of Notre Dame, we felt it went very well,” Seamon said. 
NCAA requirements stipu­late the Stadium must evacu­ate if lightning strikes within 10 miles. Notre Dame’s policy 

see STADIUM/page 6 
Walter balances rap, studies 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
As a freshman, Dylan Walter recorded his first rap song in Knott Hall. 
Now a junior, Walter is better known as D. Mon­tayne. He opened for Big Sean at Legends last spring, and he released his hip-hop mixtape “S.C.H.O.L.A.R.” in July. 
“S.C.H.O.L.A.R.” stands for “Speaking Clearly, Hear or Listen and Repeat.” 
“I really like to stress the difference between hearing and listening,” Walter said. “So the title of my mixtape is a way of telling people like, ‘You either hear what I’m saying, or you should listen to this on repeat until you do.’” 
Walter, a finance major, said balancing academics and music is difficult as a Notre Dame student. 
“I don’t think most people realize the amount of hours that go into a song,” Walter said, “But it’s very difficult to find that time while in college. I really didn’t have the time for it, so I just spent less time sleeping and more time writ-


Photo Courtesy of Dylan Walters 
Rapper Dylan Walter, a.k.a D. Montayne, released his mixtape 
“S.C.H.O.L.A.R.” in July. 
ing and recording.” 
Finding a space to record 
on a college campus is also a 
struggle, Walter said. 
“At times I’ve actually had to resort to sneaking into buildings on campus at night, simply because it was the only place to be alone and re­ally work on music,” he said. “Storage closets can be nice recording booths.” 
Walter said fellow Notre Dame students often are sur­prised at his talents. 

“It’s funny seeing how dif­ferent people react when they hear me,” he said. “Because obviously, they see me, and expectations are low from the start. That’s something I have to deal with — that doubt will always be there. I just go about it knowing that I have a 
see RAPPER/page 7 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER COR discusses 9/11 memorial page 3 u Viewpoint page 10 u Tommy James comes to South Bend page 12 u Rees becomes quarterback page 24 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD GO ON A DATE WITH ANYONE WHO WOULD IT BE AND WHY? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Megan Doyle Andrew Gastelum Mel Flanagan Cory Bernard Jillian Barwick Vickie Jacobson Graphics Scene Lisa Hoeynck Mary Claire Photo O’Donnell Suzanna Pratt Viewpoint Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 73 HIGH 68 HIGH 71 HIGH 73 HIGH 73 HIGH 77 LOW 51 LOW 58 LOW 59 LOW 58 LOW 56 LOW 58 


Elizabeth Kraig  Katherine Hester  Alexandra Zellner  Megan Gildner  Briana Coyne  Brigid Hurley  
junior  junior  senior  junior  senior  junior  
Le Mans  Le Mans  off campus  Le Mans  Holy Cross Hall  Le Mans  
“Umm Danny  “Mike Novitski ...  “Scar from the  “Zeke Motta ...  “Cristiano  “Dexter ...  
McCarthy ... he  formal?”  Lion King ... I  SMC formal?”  Ronaldo ... have  because he’d  
poked me one  like the bad  you seen the  always protect  
time.”  boys.”  Armani ads?”  me.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Mooncakes spark Taiwan station bomb scare
   TAIPEI, Taiwan — Police in the southern Taiwan city of Kaohsiung mobilised the bomb squad after a suspi­cious package was found in a subway station toilet, only to find it contained nothing more dangerous than mooncakes. 
A cleaner called police to report the package left on top of a waste bin on Saturday. Part of the sta­tion, known for its stained glass ceiling, was cordoned off and explosives experts were called in. 
The officer then emerged carrying a bright blue cardboard box full of moon-cakes, pastries with sweet fillings traditionally eaten at the Mid-Autumn Festi­val. 
“It was x-rayed first to see what it was and whether there was any chemical or electrical reaction,” local police station chief Cheng Ming-chung told TV. 
“Someone must have put it down to use the toilet and forgotten it when they left,” he said, adding that the po­lice would continue to in­vestigate. 
Activists catch runaway dairy cow in Germany 
BERLIN — German ani­mal rights activists cap­tured a runaway dairy cow named Yvonne on Friday, three months after her es­cape from the farm where she was to be slaughtered captured nationwide atten­tion. 
The bovine had become a media star, with helicop­ters and infrared used in a search across the southern state of Bavariwa after she bolted in front of a police car. 
Activists from the Gut Aiderbichl animal sanc­tuary had tried to lure Yvonne from a forest where she was holed up with a variety of enticements — including one of her calves at one point and a breeding bull named Ernst. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
There will be a Blood Drive today from noon to 6 p.m. sponsored by Notre Dame ROTC held in the LaFortune Ballroom. Come donate and be entered to win free gas for a year ($3,000 gift card). 
Nikolaos Karydis will give a lecture entitled “The Ori­gins of the Domed Basilica: Early Byzantine Vaulted Construction in West Asia Minor” today from 4:30 to 6 
p.m. He will speak about the challenges in the field of ear­ly Byzantine architecture. The lecture will take place in Bond Hall. 
Elizabeth Mazurek, asso­ciate professor of the Depart­ment of Classics, will host a colloquium on “Ovid, Aris­tarchus, and the Origins of the Literary Tradition” tonight from 5 to 6:30 p.m. in Room 303 O’Shaughnessy Hall. 
Irwin Colter, a former Min­ister of Justice and attorney general of Canada, will host a lecture entitled “Ahma­dinejad’s Iran: A Threat to Peace, Human Rights and International Law” in Eck Hall of Law Room 1140 to­night from 7:30 to 9 p.m. 
Poet John Matthias, fac­ulty emeritus of the English and Creative Writing pro­grams, will be reading from his latest poetry collection “Who Was Cousin Alice? & Other Questions” in the Hammes Bookstore on cam­pus from 7:30 to 9 p.m. to­night. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 

SGA discusses campus role 
By KRISTEN RICE 
News Writer 
During its first meeting of the year Wednesday, the Student Government Asso­ciation (SGA) discussed the role of the organization on the Saint Mary’s campus, student body president Ni­cole Gans said. 
“We want to keep a posi­tive attitude and have fun,” Gans said. “We are here to support one another as well as our student body.” 
SGA should be able to “de­velop student leaders and let other students know how they can be more involved,” she said. 
Vice president Jackie Zu­panic echoed the message of collaboration with the Saint Mary’s student body. 
“Support one another,” Zupanic said. “Make sure to ask questions when needed and also be knowledgeable of every aspect in SGA, not just your own.” 
Vice President of Student Affairs Karen Johnson said one of the roles for student government should be up­holding the College’s values. 
“You need to make sure that the truth is visible to students and that SGA is consistent with the mission of Saint Mary’s,” Johnson said. 
As the group outlined its goals for the school year, chief of staff Emily Skirtich said the SGA members should be “more unified.” 
“We should pioneer new ideas to empower ourselves as SGA, as well as the stu­dent body,” Skirtich said. 
SGA commissioners also shared their goals for the semester. 

SGA member Laura Glaub, the organizer for “Love Your Body” week last year, said she wants to work on more campus programming this year. 
“I want to be able to bring more positive events to Saint Mary’s campus,” Glaub said. 
The group also discussed club finances. Skirtich said the club’s management of fi­nances should be fair. 
“We should be striving for equity when giving allot­ments to clubs on campus,” Skirtich said. 
Gans said supporting the clubs on campus is reminder of their support from stu­dent government. 
“Giving clubs and organi­zations on campus support financially shows that we have faith in them,” she said. 
Technology commissioner Maureen Parsons added that SGA members should be considerate of student needs when distributing funds. 

“We need to be smart with money, as well as [take] the time to look at what the money is going to and if its going to be a benefit to the student body,” Parsons said. 
As the SGA members looked ahead to the fall se­mester, public relations commissioner Amanda Les­ter said the group would make an effort to reach out to the student body. 
“We want to be able to bring a larger connection between SGA and our stu­dent body,” Lester said. “We want to them to see all the good things that SGA has to offer.” 
Contact Kristen Rice at krice01@saintmarys.edu 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

COR plans Sept. 11 memorial for Sunday 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
As the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks nears, the Council of Repre­sentatives discussed Tuesday how the memorial would be commemorated on campus. 
Student body president Pat McCormick said student gov­ernment would assist the University in holding a com­memorative Mass on Sunday, which is expected to draw much of the University com­munity and surrounding area. 
The Mass will take place on Library Quad at 7:30 p.m. 
“We’re expecting 4,000 to 5,000 attendees,” he said. “We are promoting it to the community, [so] it’s open to them as well.” 
In addition to smoothing out the logistics of the large-scale event, McCormick said student government intends to offer support to students distraught by the memory of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
“Our role as the Student Union as a whole will be to provide the initial welcome and to be on the lookout for students who may be having a harder time,” he said. 
In addition to helping with the Mass on Sunday, McCor­mick said he hopes to increase programming next week re­lated to the 9/11 memorial. Sr. Helen Prejean, a finalist for the Nobel Peace Prize, will speak Sept. 12, he said. 

 “Our hope is to have a speaker in each dorm the fol­lowing week who can offer their thoughts and take ques­tions ... to discuss what 9/11 means to students,” he said. 
McCormick said the anni­versary highlights the need to increase inclusion on campus. 
“It calls us to think about how we welcome people in a real way to our community,” he said. 
McCormick recalled a col­umn written in The Observer Viewpoint section by students who experienced racial in­sensitivity on campus. 
“There [was a Viewpoint] from several students who I believe were from an Asian background [that] heard someone making fun of their culture,” he said. “This is se­rious stuff and it’s pretty dis­turbing to think it’s going on here.” 
McCormick said the inclu­sion of discriminated groups is closely tied to Notre Dame’s mission. 
“This is something that is really close to what brought us all together here, the idea that Notre Dame can be more than just a school but a force for justice in the world,” Mc­Cormick said. “If we can use this as an opportunity to re­flect this coming Sunday on how, going forward, we can make an effort to expand in­clusion.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


Soler, Bell take active roles outside student government 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 

Nearly half a year has passed since either Catherine Soler or Andrew Bell put in a late night in the offices on the second floor of LaFor­tune, but the student body president and vice president emeritus said they are still busy during their senior year. 
After she split her sum­mer between internships on campus and in New York City, Soler said she is happy to be back at Notre Dame for an­other year. 
“Senior year has been amazing so far,” Soler said. “It’s been wonderful to be back on campus and to recon­nect with my friends.” 
After working with the Student Campus Orientation Committee on Freshman Ori­entation this summer, Soler continues to work with un­derclassmen in addition to her job in the Football Office, a class council position and volunteer work. 


“I will continue to work with underclassmen and campus life as co-advisor to the freshman class council and as organizer for a va­riety of campus leadership programs,” she said. “I also began volunteering at St. Margaret’s House in South Bend, an organization that promotes nonviolence and supports women in poverty.” 
Soler focused her term as president on “beND,” a com-munity-campus relations campaign, and she continues to push the issue on senior class council as a member of the South Bend Outreach Committee. 
Bell exchanged one lead­ership position for another when he became a resident assistant in Knott Hall this year. 
“I’ve absolutely loved being an RA,” Bell said. “It’s great because your job is just to get to know the guys you’ve been living with, to be there for them. It’s very different. It’s not the same kind of obliga­tion as student government.” 
Bell said he is happy to commit his time to the resi­dence hall after having spent so much time away from Knott doing student govern­ment work. 
“I feel like Knott has a great crop of upperclassmen, especially the juniors in the dorm,” Bell said. “It’s a lot more lively in terms of hall government and the spirit of the dorm. I feel like there’s a whole new camaraderie, which is really exciting since I wasn’t around as much last year.” 
Bell said he misses aspects of student government work, but is happy to have the free time to spend his last year on campus with the Jug­gerknotts before heading off to work in finance in Atlanta next year. 
“Being a senior is a weird thing ... you sort of realize this is it, your time is tick­ing,” Bell said. “I loved last year and being a part of [stu­dent government], but it’s good to have more free time to spend here with the guys.” 
While a senior typically fills the position of student body president, Soler held the position as a junior. She said she misses the people she worked with during her term, including the Student Union office secretary Nancy Walsh. However, she said she is glad to make the most of her time as a senior before beginning her job at Deloitte in New York after graduation. 


“I do miss things about student government, espe­cially the people,” Soler said. “I am really grateful to have had the experience last year and to now have time to fully appreciate one more year at Notre Dame.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 

SMC offers career advice for students 
By TABITHA RICKETTS 
News Writer 
Whether a freshman is starting college or a senior is entering the job market, Saint Mary’s Career Crossings Of­fice (CCO) offers resources for those heading into unfamiliar territory, according to CCO Di­rector Stacie Jeffirs. 
“Our office is a good start for students,” Jeffirs said. “Some students just don’t know where to begin, don’t know how to prepare, and all you really in collaboration with Saint Mary’s Alumnae Relations and the Alumnae Board, Jef­firs said. Two of these events, “Success after Saint Mary’s” and “Google Alums: The Path to a Google Career,” will be held next week. 
“It’s firsthand knowledge and experience,” Jeffirs said. “Students and alums are just drawn to each other.” 
In addition to the workshops and outside events, Jeffirs said CCO offers academic and career coun­seling in per­son. These 

need to do is “It’s really about ... meetings are just walk in.” figuring [out] what “about edu-
This fall, cating stu­
your interests are and 
CCO began of-dents on all 
exploring all the options 
fering online things ca-
and opportunities that 
workshops reer,” she 
are out there. That’s what 
covering re-said. 
our office facilitates.” 
sume writ-But CCO ca­ing, exploring reer events majors and Stacie Jeffirs are not just careers, net-for seniors. 
director 
working and The office 
Career Crossings Office 
-post-gradu ate service. 
“It’s really about … figuring [out] what your interests are and explor­ing all the options and oppor­tunities that are out there,” Jeffirs said. “That’s what our office facilitates.” 
The office already post­ed four videos this fall. The workshops, all under 20 min­utes long, are titled “Getting Started with Resumes,” “Get­ting Started with Cover Let­ters,” “Getting Started with Networking” and “Using the Alumnae Resource Network.” 
The office also hosts events 


SPARK 
continued from page 1 
provides women with general information and practice on how to manage a small for-profit business,” Smith said. “It is offered to community women who have a maxi­mum household income of $21,000 a year. [Participants] must have a business idea in mind and a feasible chance of qualifying for a micro loan. Community leaders, busi­ness owners and profession­als volunteer to facilitate the course.” 
The community leaders who volunteered with the SPARK participants were accoun­tants, bankers, experienced business owners, networking professionals, bookkeeping experts and retired librar­ians, Smith said. 
The professionals and SPARK participants met twice a week for three hours each day, and the 11-week program ran from May 31 to Aug. 11. 
These women also had fam­ilies and other responsibili­ties, such as part-time jobs, to maintain as well, Smith said. 
In order to qualify for en­trance into the SPARK pro­gram, Smith said the women had to meet certain criteria. 
“There is an initial screen­ing session of three hours, and participants have to pay a small registration fee and very affordable tuition to pay for class supplies,” Smith said. “At the end of the reaches out to freshmen and sophomores 
by offering programs focused on “inviting [them] all into the office,” Jeffirs said. 
The CCO will host an Open House on Wednesday from 1 
p.m. to 5 p.m. and Thursday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in prepa­ration for the Notre Dame Fall Career Expo. The expo will be Thursday from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the JACC at Notre Dame. 
“Just walk in the door,” Jef­firs said. “We’ll help you.” 
Contact Tabitha Rickets at tricke01@saintmarys.edu 
course, participants must have a business plan ready.” 
Smith said the businesses flourished by the end of the course. Some of the SPARK projects, including a real es­tate business and a gift bas­ket designer, saw early suc­cess. 
“[The] wedding planner booked her first wedding be­fore the course was over,” Smith said. 
While SPARK is a pilot pro­gram and is still under evalu­ation, the women continued to receive guidance after the end of the 11 weeks. 
“There is a one-year sup­port period,” she said. 
Despite the program’s suc­cess, Smith said it was not al­ways easy along the way. 
“The most challenging as­pect for me was organizing ideas and input from vari­ous sources and recruiting over 35 volunteers to run the program,” Smith said. “Par­ticipants had to make a firm commitment to attend class, to be punctual and dedicate a minimum of eight hours for homework.” 
Though the WEI office or­ganized and ran SPARK this summer, professor Susan Vance from the Business Ad­ministration and Economics department had the idea for the program and suggested a model.
 [Vance and the program’s volunteers] are the true champions of SPARK,” Smith said. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 
Stadium 
continued from page 1 
existed for decades, Seamon said, but evacuation was nev­er necessary. 
“It’s been a long-standing policy, longer than anyone here can remember,” Seamon said. “Every year we look at it, review it, update it. We’re constantly paying attention to it.” After severe weather first approached the Stadium, Seamon said stadium official evacuated about 82,000 fans at the end of the first half. 
Fans huddled in LaFortune Student Center, the Joyce Athletic Center, dormitories and other buildings around campus, waiting to hear that the game would resume. 
Saturday’s halftime lasted two hours and 10 minutes as the storm approached and then moved over campus, Seamon said. 
Seamon estimated about 60,000 to 70,000 fans re­turned for the second half. Tickets could not be res­canned after the first evacu­ation, so he could not provide an exact number. 
“Given that the first delay was lengthy, we didn’t know what to anticipate,” Seamon said. “To see that number of people come on back af­ter that two hour delay re­ally speaks to what the Notre Dame family is like.” 
To the players’ and fans’ dismay, however, the game safe game-day atmosphere. 
NDSP arrested seven peo­ple Saturday, NDSP director Phil Johnson said. 
Outside the stadium, NDSP officers arrested two peo­ple for shoplifting, three for criminal trespass and one for indecent exposure and public intoxication. 
Additonally, he said one man was arrested for public intoxication at the Stadium. 
Seamon said intense heat on both Friday and Saturday was a safety issue itself. He was delayed another 43 min­utes in the fourth quarter with just over four minutes left on the clock. 
Seamon said lightning struck campus during the storms. 
“Lightning during the storms was right up on cam­pus, [but] we don’t have re­ports of any buildings being 
struck,” he said. “The number of 
“Given that first 
strikes and 
delay was lengthy, 
the closeness 
we didn’t know what 
to campus un­derscores the to anticipate. To importance see that number of to heed the people come on back warning to after that two hour evacuate the delay really speaks 
Stadium and 
to what the Notre 
seek shelter.” 
Dame family is like.” 
Despite the weather, 
Mike Seamon 
Notre Dame 
Security Po-associate vice president lice (NDSP) Campus Safety officers also worked to maintain a going to give,” Seamon said. “It was all about track­ing when it would hit.” 

The storm couldn’t have been more “square in the middle” of the game, Seamon said. 
“We were hoping [it would hit in the] fourth quarter, but as the day wore on we just knew that said fire and medical teams were “consumed with calls” for heat-related health is­sues. 
Officials started tracking the storm well before the game even started, Seamon said. 
“You had such intense heat in front of it and such drastic cold behind it, something was 
wasn’t going to be the case,” Seamon said. 
While Seamon said he was happy with the evacuations overall, he still saw room for improvement. 
“We’re going to review [the evacuation policy] this week,” Seamon said. “We have sever­al meetings to break it down step by step, what did we do well and what could we do better.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
Rapper 
continued from page 1 
lot to prove to people.” 
When he opened for Big Sean, Walter said he proved to his peers he had a future in rap. 
“I remember when I stepped out on stage to open for Big Sean, and most of the crowd had never heard of me,” Walter said. “It was funny seeing their faces when I came out, like, ‘Who does this white kid think he is?’ But then I started rap­ping, and their heads started bobbing, and by the end I had won them over.” 
When he was younger, Wal­ter said he developed a love of music from his brother who would play rap songs in the car on the way to school. 
“I actually hated it at the time, because it was hard to wake up to Young Buck or Tech Nine at 6:30 [a.m.],” he said. “It all worked out though, because my brother’s love of rap kind of rubbed off on me. 
“Still to this day, I consider my brother to have been the biggest influence in my hip hop career because without him showing me the difference between good rap and trash I might be trying to make pop records now.” 
Walter said he would love to make music his career. Despite his love for the art, he also said he knows breaking into the music industry would be a dif­ficult path. 
“The road isn’t easy, and there are a lot of factors that go into making it in this kind of career,” he said. “I have to be prepared to take the step towards music or the business world, and as of now, I’m not sure which way to step.” 
For now, Walter said he is putting recording aside to study abroad in Australia this semester. 
“I wasn’t able to bring my recording equipment with me, and studio time here is very expensive, so I will not be re­cording any actual songs un­til I get back to the States,” he said. “I’ve still been writing and working on beats, though, and I plan on having a lot of material ready to go when I get back.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
App 
continued from page 1 
able to achieve that feat. 
“Our first year of the app [in 2009] had about 25,000 [purchases],” Klimek said. “The next year had double that. We’re on a better track this year than last year and we’re hopeful to double it again if we can.” 
Reaching the top of Apple’s charts was not a victory eas­ily won, Klimek said. The project began in February 2009 in a RecSports locker room. 
“I was talking to [Massey] about a great idea after a pickup basketball game with faculty,” Klimek said. “He liked the idea.” 
Massey told Klimek he had experience with program­ming language, so the two purchased a Mac Mini com­puter, signed up as Apple de­velopers and began creating the football app. 
“It was a lot more effort than we anticipated, but we got our first app out before the 2009 football season,” Klimek said. “The first day in store, it sold 121 units and a week later Apple featured us with eight other football apps.” 
Klimek and Massey created another application later that year called “Men’s Bracket 2010” for March Madness. The basketball app was so popular its sales exceeded those of Gridiron, vaulting Men’s Bracket 2010 to the No. 6 spot on the Top Paid Sports App list for two weeks. 
Over the past three years, Klimek said he and Massey improved the apps in re­sponse to user emails. 
“The second year of our March Bracket app, we auto­mated it for an office pool,” Klimek said. “We also felt it was important to support other users with versions of both apps geared for An­droid. This year we made an iPad version of each.” 
The iPad version, he said, was easier to develop than when he and Massey created the original version. 
“On a small screen of an iPhone, you have to worry about font sizes and being very careful with organiza­tion,” Klimek said. “The iPad gives more freedom.” 

Klimek said he sees many opportunities for new and better apps in the future. He and Massey will con­tinue to create new versions each year of their existing apps and may add a few new sports apps. Along with these two projects, they plan to de­velop two business apps. 
“One of them is a fundrais­ing app to help non-profits in sharing content, accept­ing electronic donations and managing raffles and auc­tions,” Klimek said. “The other is for location manage­ment to share floor plans and building maps.” 
The opportunity to estab­lish and enhance a reputa­tion in the young app market is still available, Klimek said. 
“I talk to a lot of people who are interested in mobile de­velopment and many think the gold rush is over,” Klimek said. “But the app store pro­vides worldwide distribution, and there are very few house­hold names yet. In my view, there are still many opportu­nities for developers.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 

W. Va. man kills 5, chase ends in suicide 
Associated Press 
MORGANTOWN, W. Va. — Au­thorities say a man who killed five people near Morgantown and ran down an elderly woman in neighboring Pennsylvania also shot and wounded a gas station attendant as he crossed back through West Virginia. He then took his own life in Ken­tucky. 
The path of violence that Shayne Riggleman cut through three states before committing suicide during a police chase was “one of the most heinous crimes I’ve ever witnessed,” State Police Capt. James Merrill said Tuesday. 
At a news conference, Merrill would not comment on a mo­tive or say how Riggleman, 22, was connected to any of the five shooting victims at the blood-spattered house a few miles west of Morgantown, where the spree began Monday afternoon. 
Charles Richardson Jr., whose son was among the five shoot­ing victims, told The Associ­ated Press he didn’t recognize Riggleman’s name or know his connection to the family. Nor was he aware of his son having trouble with anyone. 
Richardson said his son worked for FedEx and liked to tinker on vehicles and comput­ers. The two were not close, he said, even though the elder Rich­ardson lives in a mobile home within sight of his son’s house. 
“He went about his business and I went about mine,” he said, “but I loved my son.” 
Police identified the dead as: 49-year-old Charles Richard­son III; his wife, 50-year-old Karin Richardson; her children, 17-year-old Kevin Hudson and 22-year-old Katrina Hudson; and 30-year-old Robert Raber. 
Katrina Hudson was six months pregnant. 
Raber lived in the house, but Merrill would not otherwise elaborate on his relationship to the other victims. 
Merrill said investigators be­lieve all five victims in the ram­shackle house were shot with a high-powered rifle. Autopsies were under way Tuesday. 
Troopers had been asked to check on the family around 
6:30 p.m. Monday. They found two bodies in the kitchen and one in the living room once they reached the home at the end of a deeply rutted dirt drive. 
Merrill said troopers secured the site, determined the shooter was no longer inside and found two more bodies in a bathroom after searching further. 
Merrill said the call about the family’s welfare came from a friend who grew concerned af­ter Riggleman traveled to see her in Pennsylvania. 
Authorities said Riggleman apparently shot the victims around 3:30 or 4:30 p.m. Mon­day then drove about 20 miles to Fairchance, Pa., and met with that friend. Authorities would not identify the woman but credited her with preventing more deaths. 
“It’s unfortunate it ended the way it did,” Merrill said, “... but I do not believe that he would’ve stopped.” 
After leaving the woman around 5:30 p.m., police say, Riggleman crashed into an­other vehicle near Fairchance and then ran down the elderly female driver as she got out of her car to exchange informa­tion. Authorities did not identify that victim but said she was se­riously injured. 
Riggleman then fled south on Interstate 79, Merrill said. At an Exxon station near Amma, about 30 miles from the West Virginia state capital of Charles­ton, Riggleman “randomly shot and severely wounded” atten­dant Don Nichols, police said. 
Nichols, who was in critical condition, is expected to sur­vive. 
Riggleman continued south into Lewis County, Ky., where a deputy tried to pull him over for reckless driving. 
The deputy chased the driv­er until he pulled over about a half-mile down the road. The deputy found Riggleman with a self-inflicted gunshot wound, Lewis County Sheriff Johnny Bivens said. 


PHILIPPINES 

20-foot crocodile on display in village 
MANILA, Philippines — What a croc! 
Its mighty snout wrapped tightly with ropes, a one-ton, 20-foot saltwater crocodile was captured and put on dis­play in a town in the southern Philippines — one of the big­gest such reptiles to be caught in recent years. 
But shed no crocodile tears for this colossal captive. 
“Lolong,” as it has been nick­named, is about to become the star attraction of an ecotour­ism park — unless it is up­staged by an even larger rep­tile that may be still be on the loose. 
Residents of Bunawan town­ship celebrated when they captured the croc, with about 100 people pulling the feared beast from a creek by rope, then hoisting it by crane onto a truck. While the beast was safely tied up, they examined its teeth, claws and stubby legs with fascination. 
Their party may have been premature, however. 
After the 20-foot (6.1-me­ter) reptile was caught over the weekend, authorities said Tuesday an even bigger croco­dile may still be lurking in creeks of the remote region in Agusan del Sur province. 
The scaly skinned Lolong — which tips the scales at 2,370 pounds (1,075 kilograms) — is estimated to be at least 50 years old. Wildlife officials were trying to confirm whether it was the largest such catch in the world, said Theresa Mun­dita Lim of the government’s Protected Areas and Wildlife Bureau. 
It was captured alive after a three-week hunt, easing some fears among the locals. A child was killed two years ago in the township by a crocodile, and a croc is suspected of killing a fisherman who has been miss­ing since July. Last month, res­idents saw a crocodile killing a water buffalo. 


The party thrown after Lolong’s capture “was like a feast, so many villagers turned up,” said Mayor Edwin Cox Elorde. 
Wildlife official Ronnie Sum­iller, who has hunted “nuisance crocodiles” for 20 years and led the team that captured Lolong, said another search was under way for the possibly larger croc that he and residents have seen in the town’s marshy outskirts. 
“There is a bigger one, and it could be the one creating prob­lems,” Sumiller told The Asso­ciated Press by telephone from Bunawan, about 515 miles (830 kilometers) southeast of Ma­nila. 

“The villagers were saying 10 percent of their fear was gone because of the first cap­ture,” Sumiller said. “But there is still the other 90 percent to take care of.” 
Backed by five village hunt­ers he trained, Sumiller has set 20 steel cable traps with an animal carcass as bait in nearby vast marshland and along the creek where Lolong was caught. 
Sumiller said he found no human remains when he in­duced the captured crocodile to vomit. 

Gunman kills 3, self at IHOP 
Associated Press 
CARSON CITY, Nev. — A gunman wielding an AK-47 opened fire on a table of uni­formed National Guard mem­bers at an IHOP restaurant on Tuesday in an outburst of vio­lence that killed four people, wounded eight others and put Nevada’s capital city on high alert as the shooter unloaded his assault rifle in a bustling business district. 
The shooter’s motive was unclear, but family members said he had mental issues. He had never been in the military and had no known affiliation with anyone inside the restau­rant. 

Five Nevada National Guard troops sitting together at the back of the restaurant were & Grill. “But when he came at shot — two of them fatally. An-me, when somebody is pointing other woman was also killed, an automatic weapon at you — and the gunman, 32-year-old you can’t believe the firepower, Eduardo Sencion of Carson the kind of rounds coming out City, shot himself in the head of that weapon.” and died at a hospital. The gunman went all the 
Witnesses and authorities way to the back of the res-described a frantic scene, in taurant to the back area and which the shooter pulled into opened fire, Carson City Sher-the large complex of retail iff Kenny Furlong said. stores and shops just before 9 When he left the restaurant, a.m., got out of a blue minivan he got back in his vehicle, and immediately shot a man driving around in circles and on a motorcycle. shooting into the nearby busi-
Ralph Swagler said he nesses, shattering the win-grabbed his own weapon, but dows of a barbecue restaurant said it was too late to stop the and an H&R Block and a ca-shooter, who charged into the sino across the street. IHOP through the front doors. Officers arrived minutes 
“I wish I had shot at him but later and found the suspect he was going in the IHOP,” said and the person who was on the Swagler, who owns Locals BBQ motorcycle wounded and lying in the parking lot. The names of the victims, including two male Guard members who were killed, were not immedi­ately released. 

As the attack unfolded, Ne­vada officials worried about the violence being more wide­spread. They locked down the state Capitol and Supreme Court buildings for about 40 minutes, and put extra secu­rity in place at state and mili­tary buildings in northern Ne­vada. 
“There were concerns at the onset, so we took certain steps to ensure we had the capabil­ity to embrace an even larger circumstance,” Furlong said. “At this point in time it ap­pears to be isolated to this parking lot.” 

Texas wildfires kill 4, destroy 1,000 homes 
Associated Press 
BASTROP, Texas — One of the most devastating wildfire outbreaks in Texas history left more than 1,000 homes in ru­ins Tuesday and stretched the state’s firefighting ranks to the limit, confronting Gov. Rick Perry with a major disaster at home just as the GOP presiden­tial contest heats up. 
More than 180 fires have erupted in the past week across the rain-starved Lone Star State, and nearly 600 of the homes destroyed since then were lost in one catastrophic blaze in and around Bastrop, near Austin, that raged out of control Tuesday for a third day. 
Whipped into an inferno by Tropical Storm Lee’s winds over the weekend, the blaze burned more than 45 square miles, forced the evacuation of thou­sands and killed at least two people, bringing the overall death toll from the outbreak to at least four. 
“We lost everything,” said Willie Clements, whose two-sto­ry colonial home in a housing development near Bastrop was reduced to a heap of metal roof­ing and ash. A picket fence was melted. Some goats and turkeys survived, but about 20 chickens and ducks were burned to death in a coop that went up in flames. 
On Tuesday, Clements and his family took a picture of them­selves in front of a windmill adorned with a charred red, white and blue sign that pro­claimed, “United We Stand.” 

“This is the beginning of our new family album,” the 51-year­old Clements said. 
Perry cut short a presidential campaign trip to South Carolina to deal with the crisis. On Tues­day, he toured a blackened area near Bastrop, which is about 25 miles from Austin. 
“Pretty powerful visuals of individuals who lost every­thing,” he said. “The magnitude of these losses are pretty stun­ning.” 
The governor would not say whether he would take part in Wednesday evening’s Republi­can presidential debate in Cali­fornia, explaining that he was “substantially more concerned about making sure Texans are being taken care of.” But cam­paign spokesman Mark Miner said in an email later in the day that Perry planned to be there. 
Perry, a tea-party favorite who has made a career out of railing against government spending, said he expects feder­al assistance with the wildfires, and he complained that red tape was keeping bulldozers and other heavy equipment at the Army’s Fort Hood, 75 miles from Bastrop, from being put­ting to use. Fort Hood was bat­tling its own fire, a 3,700-acre blaze. 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Orange pants 
As I sat waiting for my theology class to begin Monday I heard whispers coming from behind me. I got nervous. Suddenly I felt like my sixth grade self. I was again 11 years old with sweaty palms and chills running down my Brandon Keelean arm. 
I wasn’t sure Graphics Editor what the two girls behind me where talking about, but I had a feeling they were talking about me. Each inaudible sentence seemed to begin with Brandon. It’s hard to describe and makes no sense, but it seemed so logical in that moment. 
Perhaps what I was feeling is some­thing I can blame on my generation. We are known as the “me generation” after all, and that’s exactly what I was thinking — me, me, me. Why wouldn’t two perfect strangers want to talk about me? 
More likely the feeling has some­thing to do with my childhood. For an awkward year or two in middle school I wore orange pants of varying shades almost every day of the week. I refused to wear T-shirts with writing on them, and I put about three tablespoons of gel in my hair each morning to make sure every point was perfect. I wanted to be noticed and it worked, though not in the way I was hoping. Maybe I never quite got over making myself the center of attention, legitimate or not. 
Whatever the source of the feeling was, it was there again. I, a 20-year­old man, was sitting in a desk that was way too small for my 6-foot-5-inch frame, worrying frantically about what these two girls could be talking about. 
I then proceeded to surreptitiously check everything I could think of. I pre­tended to wipe my brow on my sleeve while checking to see if I had remem­bered to put deodorant on that morn­ing. I faked a yawned and stretched so that I could see if my tag was hanging out of my shirt, and as I extended my arms fully, I put my fingers through my hair to check if there was any residual bed-head from the night before. I then pulled out my wallet, moving slowly to ensure no new holes had appeared in my cargo shorts. And I faked a cough to make sure my breath didn’t smell. 
Thirty seconds had now passed and I decided it was worth it to see if I even knew the people behind me. Worried about what would happen if I turned around without a reason, I twisted in my seat as if I were cracking my back. As my spine twisted, two complete strangers came into view. 
Forty-five seconds had passed at this point and my rational brain finally kicked in. I reasoned out the prob­ability they were talking about me to be one-in-a-gazillion. I realized that, if they were like most Notre Dame students, they were probably talking about football. I began to ease into my chair to prepare for a lecture about love and justice in the Catholic Church. 
Looking back on those brief moments I find it ridiculous that I was even wor­ried about the opinions of two random people. I should be an adult who is not afraid of what others think of me. But it seems that I never completely grew up. 
Thankfully all I have left is a little childish insecurity, because I don’t think Notre Dame is ready to see me in orange pants. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Brandon Keelean at       bkeelean@nd.edu 
I spent last spring as a teaching assis­tant in Morality and Modernity. I was re­sponsible for leading two discussion sec­tions every Friday. My students taught me a great deal — though not what I expected. 
After our discus­sions, I worried that, in teaching my stu­dents the history of modern ethics — in challenging, indeed, the very foundations of those ethics — I had drawn them in so many directions, had tried to tie to­gether so many dif­ferent things, that they had missed the forest for the trees 
— that they had mastered, that is, the subtleties of Kant and Nietzsche and Ma­cIntyre and yet had missed, in the end, the point that I was trying to make. 
The point was not that conservative politics are to be championed over lib­eral politics — or, for that matter, that liberal politics are to be championed over conservative politics. Our students were not, in other words, to vote a cer­tain way or to argue others into doing so. Ours was not a boot camp for culture warriors or, indeed, a boot camp of any other kind. If the culture wars have to be fought in the first place, they are lost. 
The point was not that our students were to choose some particular career 
— not, in other words, that they ought to upset their parents and go into theater rather than dermatology. Medicine, law, ministry, teaching, research, carpentry and so on are, or can be, noble profes­sions, but ours was not an argument that they ought to join any one of these and thus, somehow, save the world. The world cannot thus be saved, for it is the world itself that it is the problem. 
The point was not even that our stu­dents were to champion any particular cause — not, at any rate, as the way to repair our civilization. While there are any number of worthy causes to cham-

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The most wasted of all days is one without laughter.” 
e. e. cummings 
U.S. poet 
Manifesto 
pion, those that can succeed will not fix the fundamental problem with our civi­lization, and those that can fix the fun­damental problem with our civilization cannot succeed. The solution to the fun­damental problem with our civilization is not some variant on that same civiliza­tion. 
So what was the point? 
“You are not who they say you are,” said John Paul the Great. He was, in 1979, speaking to the people of Poland, who had labored for over 40 years in So­viet slavery — a slavery that was as much spiritual as material. They had been taught that they were fundamentally producers, that their deepest satisfaction would come from labor, from making things — and that, for this, all that was necessary was to reform civilization such that labor relations were finally equal. 
This was a lie designed to further en­rich and empower the already wealthy and powerful by manipulating those who were neither. While it is true that men cannot be happy without labor, there is so much more to them than this. The cost of this lie in human misery was un­told. But it was not the only lie. John Paul was speaking to all of those who had been destroyed by modernity, and all of its works, and all of its empty promises: Capitalism, for example, had taught men that they were fundamentally consum­ers, that their deepest satisfaction would come from satisfying their desires, from accumulating things — and that, for this, all that was necessary was to reform civi­lization such that economic progress was inevitable. And this too was a lie. While it is true that men cannot be happy without pleasure, there is so much more to them than this. The cost of this lie, while so different as to be incommensurable with that of communism, was nonetheless un­told — and, as is clear from a casual look at advertising or at kindergartners recit­ing the Pledge of Allegiance, manipula­tion plays its role in this lie as well. And these, communism and capitalism, are just two examples. 
So ... What was the point? 
The point was certainly not that our students were to hate modernity — and especially not that they were to hate sci­entific, economic or artistic progress. On this, at least, I hope that we were clear: Modernity — in its science, literature, art, philosophy, politics, economics and so on — is the highest achievement of humanity so far. Our students were not to long for an ancient or medieval world that has passed, for such a longing is as dangerous as it is absurd. This unthink­ing nostalgia played no small part in the nightmare that was, intermittently, the 20th century. 


But if modernity is the highest achieve­ment of humanity, it is also its greatest idol — and perhaps this, finally, hints at the point: We have constructed a great and beautiful thing, a civilization in which all men are finally free and equal, and have told ourselves that if we only tweak it here and there, it will finally make us happy. But it will not. In his Canticle for Leibowitz, Walter Miller 
— who watched the bombing of Monte Cassino into rubble from his position as tail gunner in a B-52 — asserts just this: “The closer men came to perfect­ing for themselves a paradise, the more impatient they seemed to become with it, and with themselves as well. They made a garden of pleasure, and became pro­gressively more miserable with it as it grew in richness and power and beauty; for then, perhaps, it was easier for them to see that something was missing in the garden, some tree or shrub that would not grow. When the world was in dark­ness and wretchedness, it could believe in perfection and yearn for it. But when the world became bright with reason and riches, it began to sense the narrowness of the needle’s eye, and that rankled for a world no longer willing to believe or yearn.” 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his fourth year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. Listen to his radio show on WVFI. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily that of The Observer. 
WEEKLY POLL 
How long did you stay at the ND vs. USF game? 
Game? What game? My view was great ... from Reckers Came back after every delay Never left the concourse 
Vote by Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Wednesday, September 7, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 
Why we need a fair tax 

In order to premise this article, it is first necessary to explain what a flat tax is. A flat tax is one in which the tax rate is constant regardless of the circum­stances. This could apply to the gasoline 
tax, the income  
tax or various  Brian Kaneb  
other forms of  
taxation. Under  Guest Columnist  
such an idea,  
the rich would  

not pay more, nor would the poor pay less. There would be no loopholes or de­ductions. Everybody would pay the same. 
The FairTax is a type of flat tax that would replace our entire tax system with a newly defined 23 percent national re­tail sales tax. In essence, you would only be required to give $23 for every $100 you spend to the government. I know this sounds radical — and it is to a certain degree — but not all radical ideas are bad. 
As most people who have been fol­lowing politics know, our country has a debt problem. Our federal government is on track to spend $3.8 trillion this year while raising just $2.17 trillion in taxes. Though there is no overnight solution to this issue, the implementation of the FairTax would go a long way towards resolving it. Our annual revenue would increase by hundreds of billions of dol­lars; in 2007, when figures were last available, the FairTax would have gener­ated $2.586 billion in revenue. Unfortu­nately, because we have seen a dramatic increase in spending since the recession began, this alone would not be enough. Both revenue increases and spending de­creases are necessary if we are to strive for a balanced budget. In this sense, both Democrats and Republicans are wrong. 
We cannot decrease our debt simply by raising more money, as the Demo­crats suggest. At the same time, relying purely on spending cuts, as the Republi­cans have proposed, is also unrealistic. America needs to meet in the middle, and the FairTax is the first step toward a compromise on this issue. 
Amazingly, though revenue would increase under the FairTax, the vast ma­jority of Americans would actually pay less to the government. This may sound contradictory, but it can be explained easily. Our current tax system is full of loopholes, mainly for the rich. Just a few years ago, billionaire Warren Buffet famously quipped that he paid a “lower part of our income in taxes than our re­ceptionists do, or our cleaning ladies, for that matter.” Though this may seem in­sane, it is entirely plausible if you take a look at our messy tax code, which is cur­rently thousands of pages long. Through­out history the richest of the rich have financed the campaigns of politicians, who in turn create these loopholes as a favor. The FairTax would rid our country of all of this. Warren Buffet would be required to pay 23 percent of his per­sonal consumption expenditures to the government, just like his maid. 
However, unlike the political estab­lishment, I am not going to pretend that just one income bracket is benefitting from our tax code. Both illegal immi­grants and the poor actually pay less than their fair share in terms of taxa­tion. For years, more than 40 percent of Americans have paid absolutely no federal income tax. Similarly, because they lack social security cards, illegal immigrants often do not pay any federal taxes. Because of this, tens of billions of dollars in revenue are being lost. It is an unfortunate fact that, though the rich must account for a majority of the revenue increase, the lower tax brackets must bear some responsibility as well. 
Rightfully so, after explaining most of the FairTax, many people have one simple question: Wouldn’t this discrimi­nate against the poor? My answer is always “No.” FairTax supporters real­ize that many people in poverty cannot afford a 23 percent sales tax. Thus, according to Fair Tax legislation, “all valid Social Security cardholders who are U.S. residents receive a monthly rebate equivalent to the FairTax paid on essential goods and services, also known as the poverty level expenditure.” In what would essentially be welfare under a separate name, this would make up for the fact that the lower class would see higher taxes. It provides compensation for the struggling families and individu­als who are willing to pay more to the government. 

If you want to learn more, buy “The FairTax Book” by Neal Boortz and John Linder. They explain it much better than I can. This book convinced me that America needs the FairTax, and will hopefully change your opinion of our tax code as well. 
Brian Kaneb is a sophomore. He can be reached at bkaneb1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily that of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Where’s the spirit? 
Saturday’s loss against USF, of course, was disappointing. Even more disappointing and, ac­tually insulting, though, was the lack of support demonstrated by some of the students. For many years, the Notre Dame student body has been proclaimed as the greatest student body in the world because of its spirit. Not any more. After the first delay, a very substantial number of stu­dents did not return. After the second delay, even fewer returned. In 1988 after Notre Dame beat Miami, Brent Musberger said there is no greater love affair than that between Notre Dame’s student body and its football team. Somewhere a divorce appears to have occurred.
 First, the students who left insulted the foot­ball team and the coaches, who have been work­ing tirelessly for many weeks. Despite all the mis­cues, the team still placed itself in a position to win. A louder crowd of students could have been pivotal, but was not to be found. Unlike many stu­dents, the players never quit and deserved better.
 Second, the students who left insulted the band, whose members also work tirelessly and lost the opportunity to present a great halftime show. The band kept spurring on a crowd that stayed far longer than many students. The band deserved better.
 Third, the students who left insulted the remainder of the Notre Dame family, includ­ing their fellow students who stayed as well as alumni who collectively make financial and other sacrifices that assist many students who other­wise could not attend Notre Dame. These sacri­fices are made without conditions but many of us alumni are dismayed by the disrespect and lack of sacrifice demonstrated by some on Saturday. We all deserved better.
 This football team will only get better. But the reality is that it may have to play the remainder of its games without the support of a substantial number of students who apparently feel they have better things to do than support their foot­ball team. Pretty sad! 
John F. Lushis Jr. 
alumnus Class of 1977 Sept. 5 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Cheering the ‘stache 
Five weeks ago I started growing a mustache with the expectation that I would be instructed to shave it for the start of the football season. Traditionally, Notre Dame cheerleaders have been required to be clean shaven for all athletic events. However, the cheerleading coach permit­ted me to keep the ‘stache for the throwback Michigan game. I would like to express my gratitude for all of the mustache support that came my way during gameday this past weekend. I hope to see as many students as pos­sible in Ann Arbor this weekend in what will likely be the ‘stache’s final appearance. 
William Dotterweich 
junior Stanford Hall Sept. 5 
Examining Kelly’s behavior 
Notre Dame’s frustrating loss to South Florida was fur­ther degraded by the undignified sideline behavior of head coach Brian Kelly.  His red-faced screaming and cursing at players has been justified by some as tough-minded coach­ing necessary to properly communicate in order to improve player performance. 
As a professional educator, I don’t know of any pedagogy that advocates such demeaning behavior as beneficial to learning.  Any school teacher who did so would be immedi­ately fired.  Any father or husband who treated his family in this manner would be considered  emotionally abusive. 
When Nebraska head coach Bo Pelini displayed simi­lar behavior last season, he was reprimanded by athletic director and former head coach Tom Osborne and was forced to issue a public apology.  Osborne, whose teams won three national championships, always displayed poise and dignity on the sidelines.  He never berated his players with angry tirades.  He demonstrated that he could coach championship football without the bullying and bellicose behavior of a Woody Hayes or Vince Lombardi. 
Nebraska football fans are known for their good sports­manship. They have a tradition of applauding not only their home team, but also the opposing team as they come out on to the field.  Nebraska is a class act that operates their program with the highest standards. Perhaps they could teach Notre Dame what that really means. 
Respectfully, 

Frank LeBeau 
Notre Dame fan Sept. 6 


By ALEX KILPATRICK over 100 million records for us, and we ing in the eye of a storm. You’re really that I loved and I just loved rock and roll. Scene Writer had 23 gold singles on Roulette, as well in over your head when you make it that I loved everything it stood for. 
as nine gold and platinum albums, so I young and when you’re thrown into the When I began songwriting, I found 
With hits like “I Think We’re Alone always have these mixed feelings about entertainment business that young, you that the Midwest has some very inter-Now” and “Crimson and Clover,” Tommy Roulette and about Morris Levy, be-just sort of have to take it a step at a time esting traits about it from a musical James, both as a solo act and with his cause if it wasn’t for Morris Levy, there and a day at a time, because that’s all standpoint. You’re growing up in the band the Shondells, has produced 23 wouldn’t have been a Tommy James. you know how to do. area around Notre Dame, South Bend gold singles and nine gold and platinum And that really is the truth. He sold our Gradually, I got a little more used to and Niles [and] you’re really sort of well albums. records like nobody else could, but the it. I put a production team together in balanced. You’re not too close to Chica-
James will return to Michiana, where problem was always getting paid. We New York and was able to make a lot of go, you’re not too close to Detroit, you’re he attended high school, to perform ended up being cheated out of between new records and gradually we started sort of in a small market there, and the with the Shondells this Friday, Sept. 9 30 and 40 million dollars. The point is producing our own records and writing things that everybody seemed to like in at 8 p.m. at the Morris Performing Arts that Morris Levy who ran Roulette was our own songs. At Roulette, because of my dance band, the live cover band that I Center. I chatted with James about life a dictator, he was a mobster, he was a the relationship we had with Roulette, had before we started making records, a in the music business over the past 45 thug — he was all those things, but he we were the biggest act on the label and lot of that made its way into my records. years and his recent autobiography, in also was an amazing record man. So I so we were sort of given the keys to the In other words, I always sort of loved the works to become both a Hollywood have all kinds of mixed feelings about candy store. We were allowed to really party rock, which was just kind of slop biopic and a Broadway musical, Morris Levy and writing this book and take charge of our own career. rock and roll, that three-chord rock and 
Alex Kilpatrick: You recently wrote doing this project has been very thera-I was always very thankful for that, roll that used to put everyone on the an autobiography, “Me, the Mob and peutic actually for me. because if we had gone with one of dance floor when I played in my cover the Music,” detailing your music career. AK: There are plans in the works to the big corporate labels, we probably band, The Shondells. When I got into Why did you choose this title? turn your autobiography into a Holly-would’ve been a one hit wonder, espe-New York and started making records 
Tommy James: It was the three top-wood film,  as well as a Broadway play. cially with a record like “Hanky Panky” and writing songs, a lot of that came ics that were covered in the autobiogra-How do you feel about the prospect as our first song. At Roulette, they actu-with me and so a lot of the songs, espe­phy. The first couple chapters are about of seeing your life story on ally needed us and even though getting cially the early ones like “Mony Mony” Niles,  [Mich.,] where I grew up and 
screen or in the-paid at a business level was a disaster, and “Do Something to Me” and “I Think how I got into the music business and so at a creator’s level it couldn’t have been We’re Alone Now,” all had that quality forth. And the second topic is essentially better, because they allowed us to them of sort of party rock that I de-Roulette Records, once we started hav-to take charge of veloped as a young teenager playing in ing hits. Roulette Records, of course we ou r -my band. didn’t know at the time but we found out AK: You’re performing in South Bend after we signed with them, was not only next Friday, Sept. 9. How does it feel to a functioning record label but it was also be performing so close to your home-a front for the Genovese crime family in town of Niles, Mich.? New York. Of course, this was not known TJ: I love it. It feels great. I don’t get a throughout the industry. Some of the in-chance to perform in my hometown very siders knew, some of the disc jockeys and often and when I do, it’s a very special so forth. Of course, the music is obvious. moment for me. I’ll get a chance to see a We wrote about writing the songs and lot of my high school buds that I haven’t the hit records, so those are the three seen in years. I’ll get a chance to spend topics that were covered in the autobi-time in my hometown, because I grew up ography, and a mixture of rock and roll both in South Bend and in Niles, so it’s and gangsters in New York. going to be a really wonderful homecom-
AK: You signed for Roulette Records ing and I’m going to get a chance to visit with Morris Levy in 1966. How would with people I haven’t seen in ages, so for you describe your relationship with Levy all those reasons, it’s going to be very as your record label owner? special for me. 
TJ: When we got to New York, our AK: Anything else you would like to first record “Hanky Panky” had sort of add? exploded out of Pittsburgh in 1966, be-TJ: I’d love to just say thank you to ev­cause I had originally recorded it in ‘64. erybody because that’s where I started I grew up in Niles, Mich. and not far atre? out in the Michiana area and these were from Notre Dame actually. That’s where TJ: It’s a little scary to be per-the people who began it all for me. Sec-my career began. When “Hanky Panky” fectly honest with you. It’s a sort of giddy ondly, I’d just like to say, we’d like to in-exploded out of Pittsburgh unexpectedly feeling. I’m giddy about it but I also, on selves. And this vite everybody to come out to the show. in 1966, I had just graduated from high the other hand, am a little bit nervous would’ve never happened at a We’ll get a chance not only to do all school the year before and went right about it. I mean, I can’t imagine what larger label. At Roulette, I got an educa-the hits but we’ll get a chance to meet into New York and almost immediately I’m going to feel like opening night of tion I could’ve never had any other way. people and shake a few hands and talk got involved with Morris Levy, who was the play, of the musical. As soon as we I was able to learn to be a songwriter with some folks. The Morris Auditorium the head of Roulette Records. turned the book in, I almost immedi-and a producer and actually get involved is really a gorgeous place. I love playing 
Morris Levy was a very notorious in-ately started getting calls for the movie in the nuts and bolts of making our re-there. I haven’t played there probably in dividual. He was called the godfather of rights and for the Broadway rights. The cords, designing our albums, every as-over 20 years and so it’s going to be re-the record business, and for very good Broadway show will be up and running pect of the record business. I guess you ally a very special night. reason, because he really was. Mor-in about 18 months, two years and about could say in one way, it was very heavy. ris was an associate of the Genovese six months after that will be the movie. In another way, I really had to concen­crime family. Of course, we didn’t know Even though the movie’s going to be de-trate and learn how to be a professional that until we had signed with Roulette, veloped at pretty much the same time, very quickly. and my relationship with Morris can they’re going to be out at different times, AK: You’ve produced 23 gold singles only be described as sort of an abusive because they would bump heads obvi-and nine gold and platinum albums over father, I guess. Morris was right out of ously. But we are very, very excited. I the course of your musical career. Do central casting. I mean, he was a very know I’m very excited about the story you attribute your successes to any spe­scary guy, about 6 feet 4 inches, weighed coming out as a musical and as a movie. cific musical artists? 250 pounds, and he was really a very in-I just am really amazed by all this and TJ: I suppose, yeah, everybody sort of timidating individual. All of the people still can hardly believe it. steals from everybody in the music busi­around him, who were not running AK: You earned fairly immediate ness. My first heroes were the first gen-
Roulette but who were in his office success with songs like “I Think We’re eration rock and rollers. Elvis and Buddy continuously, were a lot of mobsters, in Alone Now” and “Mony Mony.” How did Holly and then later on the Beatles and addition to the other people who worked you adjust to such widespread success at the Beach Boys and Frankie Valli and so at the record company, so we had to re-a young age? forth and the acts that really had staying ally walk on eggshells the entire time we TJ: I made it right out of high school power. By the time we got into the busi­were at Roulette. and the first six months of my career, I ness, my musical taste was a little bit of 
On the other hand, Roulette did sell was basically a spectator. It felt like be-everybody. There were so many artists 

LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 


Wednesday, September 7, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 13 

LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Why baseball needs playoff expansion 
This is the third of a new Observer feature. A series of 10 Observer sportswriters will have columns appear in this space on a bi-weekly rotation. Hopefully some of these writers will grab your attention, and you’ll know when and where to find more of their thoughts. 
Even though I am 40 years younger than the average baseball purist, I am typi­cally old-fashioned when it comes to rule changes for the national pastime. 
I’m in favor of reducing the amount of interleague play each season. 
I cringe every time I think about how the All-Star Game determines home field 

Since then, it seems like the best rivalry in sports has gotten stale. Few outside those two cities even are much about it anymore. Honestly, even those two rabid fan bases have mellowed in their hatred of each other during the past few years. 
An expanded postseason would fix this. 
Right now, the Red Sox and Yankees are competing in one of the two closest divisional races in baseball, but nobody is paying attention because the loser of the American League East already has a wildcard spot waiting for them. 
If a fifth playoff team were added to both leagues, the two wild card teams should com­pete in a one-game playoff to determine who advances to the League Championship Series. 
After all, the only thing that rivals the excitement of a Game 7 is a one-game playoff, and this system would ensure at least two such matchups per season. 
The Red Sox-Yankees battle 
would be in­
triguing right 

advantage “The Red Sox-Yankees now if the in the World teams knew
battle would be more 
Series. the second
intriguing right now
I want the place team
if the teams knew the
designated would have to 
second place team would
hitter to be win a one-
have to win a one-game
abolished. game playoff So natu-playoff to survive.” to survive, 
rally I was not happy when the first mur­murs surfaced a year ago that baseball was considering expanding the postseason to 10 teams. How could they water down something so special? Over half the league quali­fies in both the NBA and NHL, where you are not required to finish .500 to qualify, and the NFL is only a little better, with 12 of 32 teams making the playoffs. 
But baseball only gives eight of its 30 teams a ticket to Octo­ber, making it by far the most difficult sport to snag a coveted berth in the postseason. Why screw it up for any reason not involving money? 
Simply put, baseball needs the change. 
Seven years ago, the Red Sox and Yankees competed in one of the most famous series in baseball history, when Bos­ton exorcised their October demons and came back from a 3-0 deficit to top New York and, eventually, win the World Series in a sweep over the Cardinals. 
while the divi­
sion champion 
would have 
home field ad­vantage in a best-of-five series. That’s a big difference right there — a big enough differ­ence to bring relevance back to the best rivalry in sports. 
Under such a format in 2011, the Rays and Angels would be neck-and-neck for the fifth playoff spot in the American League and the defending World Series champion Gi­ants and Cardinals would be fighting for the final National League berth. All of those teams are playoff-quality and would not dilute the postsea­son. 
Now it’s up to Bud Selig and the owners to adopt this format — a format even purists can embrace. 
Andrew Owens is a junior who is hoping that to see a Tigers World Series victory once in his lifetime. He can be reached at aowens2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SOCCER 

Italy, Spain qualify for Euro 2012 
Pazzini scores a late winner for Italy, Spain defeats Liechtenstein 
Associated Press 
LONDON — Spain and Italy sealed their places at Euro 2012 with two qualifying games to spare on Tuesday while England moved closer to next year’s finals after beating Wales in a game at Wembley overshadowed by the death of a Wales fan. 
David Villa and Alvaro Negredo scored twice as defending champion Spain thrashed Liechtenstein 6-0 to secure top spot in Group I, and substitute Giampaolo Pazzini’s 85th-minute strike earned the Italians a narrow win in Florence that clinched them first place in Group C. 
The 2010 and 2006 world champions join already-qualified Germany and the two co-hosts in the finals. 
The Netherlands main­tained its perfect record in Group E with a 2-0 victory in Finland but still need a point to guarantee first place, like England, which beat Wales 1-0 in Group G through Man­chester United winger Ash­ley Young’s goal. 
However, England’s victo­ry was marred after London police said a Wales fan had died after an assault was re­ported outside the stadium before the game. Police said the man, who they believe is in his 40s, sustained head injuries and was taken to hospital where he was pro­nounced dead at 8:50 p.m. 
Six Wales fans were ar­rested as officers from the homicide and serious crime command investigate the in­cident. 
Elsewhere, France’s Euro 2012 qualification hopes were dealt a setback by drawing 0-0 at Romania, with second-place Bosnia-Herzegovina now only a point behind in Group D af­ter a Zvezdan Misimovic’s 87th-minute winner in the 1-0 victory at Belarus. 
France hosts Bosnia-Her­zegovina in the final round of group fixtures on Oct. 11 and, along with Portugal, is the European heavyweight most in danger of missing out. 
The Portuguese, who weren’t in action on Tues­day, are level on 13 points in Group H with Denmark and Norway after the Danes’ 2-0 win over their Nordic rivals in Copenhagen. 
Barcelona midfielder Xavi Hernandez celebrated win­ning his 103rd cap — a Span-ish record for an outfield play-er—by scoring on the stroke of half time to put Spain 3-0 ahead in a routine victory in Logrono, the team’s eighth in a row in qualifying. 



Real Madrid d=efender Ser­gio Ramos also found the net for defending European cham­pions. 
“Now we have time to think about the European Champion­ship, prepare for the games we have left to play,” Villa said. “It was important to qualify quick­ly.” 
By keeping a clean sheet against Slovenia, Italy has only conceded one goal in eight qualifiers—the lowest in all nine qualifying groups. 
The Azzurri edged past the Faeroe Islands 1-0 on Friday and one goal was enough for Cesare Prandelli’s team four days on, with Pazzini collecting a pass from Claudio Marchisio and firing home from the angle shot from six meters (yards). 
“This was a victory of cour­age,” said Prandelli, who has brought fresh energy to a team that was eliminated in the group stage at last year’s World Cup. 
Pazzini said: “This was a big goal. I like all my goals, but this one was important for qualify­ing mathematically.” 
Serbia moved into second place by beating the Faeroes 3-1 and needs three points from its last two games to seal sec­ond place. 

The best second-place finish­er qualifies automatically for Euro 2012, with the other eight advancing to a series of two-legged playoffs. 
Goals by Kevin Strootman and Luuk de Jong secured an eighth straight win for the Neth­erlands, who stayed six points clear of Sweden after the Scan­dinavians’ 5-0 thrashing of 10­man San Marino, courtesy of goals by Kim Kallstrom, Chris­tian Wilhemsson (two), Martin Olsson and Tobias Hysen. 
England failed to convince against Wales—a team 113 places lower down in the rank­ings — but Young’s snap finish from Stewart Downing’s cut­back means a draw for Fabio Capello’s men at Montenegro on Oct. 7 will put them through. 
Russia stayed two points clear at the top of Group B after a 0-0 home draw to second-place Ire­land and Croatia leapfrogged Greece to go a point clear at the top of Group F with a 3-1 win over Israel in Zagreb. 
Germany, which qualified for the Euros on Friday, drew 2-2 with 10-man Poland in a friend­ly match, with Cacau scoring an injury-time equalizer for the Germans. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.
CLASSIFIEDS 

and 2 follow-up questionnaires Here comes the sun, since it’s been hereTICKETS WANTED spring, 2012. PERSONALS here comes the sun, Here comes the sun, here comes 
and I say it’s all right the sun Total compensation is $405. You and I say it’s all right must not be allergic to latex. Little darling, it’s been a long cold 
Research Participants Needed UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t lonely winter He’s been waiting around for the BUYING SEASON TICKETS/ANY Email Dr. Anita Kelly at akelly@ go it alone. Notre Dame has many Little darling, it feels like years weekend GAMES -Healthy adults, ages 18-71 years, nd.edu. State your available hours resources in place to assist you. since it’s been here Figuring which club to sneak in 
needed for psychology study at Sundays-Friday. If you or someone you love needs Here comes the sun, here comes Fancy drinks and fifty-dollar cover GAs only. Notre Dame. confidential support or assistance, the sun charge Use &amp;quot;ND please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 and I say it’s all right Lately it’s been a big hassle Must have 8th grade reading Study&amp;quot; as the subject or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more Heineken and New Castle 
Call 574-277-1659 ability. Involves ten 45-minute line. information, visit ND’s website at: Little darling, the smiles returning To make sure he’s fitting in and weekly sessions from mid-http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu to the faces living large September to mid-November, 2011 Email akelly@nd.edu Little darling, it seems like years 
NFL 

Jaguars part ways with veteran QB Garrard after 9 years 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. — Da­vid Garrard lost his starting job the same way he got it: Just days before the season opener and in stunning fashion. 
The Jacksonville Jaguars released Garrard on Tuesday, making a “pure football deci­sion” that will save the fran­chise $9 million in 2011. 
Whether it saves coach Jack Del Rio’s job remains to be seen. Team owner Wayne Weaver has said Jacksonville needs to make the playoffs for Del Rio to stick around for a 10th season. 
Del Rio made it clear late last season that he had grown tired of Garrard’s inconsistent ways, but the coach remained stead­fast through training camp and the preseason that Garrard was his starter. That changed Tues­day, when the Jaguars parted ways with Garrard after nine up-and-down seasons. 
“He just couldn’t get it go­ing,” said Del Rio, who added that the team didn’t try to trade Garrard. “I had met with him a couple of weeks ago and brought him in and said, ‘Hey, listen, you’re my guy. I need you to get it going.’ He was given ev­ery opportunity. He was some­what apologetic that he wasn’t able to deliver.” 
Del Rio turned the start­ing job over to Luke McCown, who outplayed Garrard and rookie Blaine Gabbert in the preseason. Playing mostly with and against second- and third­teamers, McCown completed 12 of 18 passes for 133 yards, with two touchdowns, no intercep­tions and no sacks. 
“I was shocked by the deci­sion,” tight end Marcedes Lewis said. “They obviously felt it was time to go in a different direc­tion. Luke had a great camp, everyone knows that, and now he’s the guy. There’s no drop-off. We believe in Luke and we’re going to rally around him.” 
Garrard missed the pre­season opener because of a sore back, but started the final three games. He completed 50 percent of his passes for 216 yards, with no touchdowns and an interception. He was sacked three times. 
Garrard didn’t return phone or text messages seeking com­ment, but he thanked fans on his Twitter feed. 
“Thank you jaguar fans for an awesome ride! You are the best fans ever,” he wrote. “You’ll al­ways have a special place in my heart and my family’s heart!” 
The move was similar to what Del Rio did in 2007, when he re­leased Byron Leftwich in favor of Garrard after the preseason finale. Garrard played well that season, throwing 18 touchdown passes and just three intercep­tions. 
He’s been average since, with 53 TDs and 38 INTs over the last three seasons. He also has been sacked 117 times in that span. 
His performance late last season was one of the final straws. 
With running back Maurice Jones-Drew sitting out against Washington, the Jaguars put the game on Garrard’s shoul­ders and he struggled to han­dle the load. He failed to read Washington’s cloaked defensive schemes and nearly ended the day with five turnovers. 
The Jaguars responded by drafting Gabbert with the 10th pick in April’s draft. Gabbert would have been given a chance to win the starting job in camp, but the NFL lockout denied him a a summer filled with meet­ings, film work and organized team activities. 
Gabbert dropped to third on the depth chart last week. Mc-Cown moved up to second, al­
though  no  one  knew  he  was  
actually  auditioning  for  the  
starting job.  

“Our starter is our starter un­til he’s not our starter,” Del Rio said. “That’s the way it works. To do it any other way creates a circus atmosphere. We have not had that. We’ve had a very purposeful camp, we’ve had a very workmanlike, business­like training camp. A decision was made in the best interest of the football team, and now we go forward.” 
Garrard ends his Jackson-ville career with 16,003 yards passing, 89 touchdowns, 54 in­terceptions and a 39-37 record. He also ran for 1,746 yards and 17 scores. 


Garrard’s final game was one of his worst. He was hit repeat­edly in last week’s preseason finale against St. Louis and misfired on four of five passes. He ended the night with an ani­mated exchange with his offen­sive line on the sideline. 
That, too, had become an is­sue inside the facility, with Gar­rard pointing the finger more often than taking the blame. 

Del Rio called Garrard a middle-tier quarterback after the 2009 season, and Weaver challenged him to do more with teammates that offseason. 
Garrard did. He responded by setting the franchise record for touchdown passes in a sea­son (23), enjoyed five of the best eight games of his career, and led the Jaguars to several late wins. But he struggled down the stretch. 


TENNIS 

Steady rain brings 54 matches to halt at U.S. Open 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — A little after 3 p.m. Tuesday, Rafael Nadal settled in at a table in the 
U.S. Open players’ cafeteria and sprinkled some salt on his lunch of salmon and rice. 
The day’s work for the de­fending champion was com­plete, consisting of a 1½-hour practice session indoors at Flushing Meadows instead of his scheduled fourth-round match outdoors, because steady rain washed out all of Tuesday’s action. 
Sitting a couple of seats away, Toni Nadal — Rafael’s uncle and coach — laughed at a question about the scary scene during a post-match news conference over the weekend, when his nephew grimaced and called for a trainer’s help for right leg cramps, then slid out of his chair to the floor. 
“He’s perfectly healthy, with no problems at all,” Uncle Toni said. “He’s good. Practice was normal yester­day, and normal today.” 
During last year’s run to his first U.S. Open title, which completed a career Grand Slam, Nadal served superbly — “His best serving in one tournament,” Uncle Toni called it — regularly hitting aces at more than 130 mph and getting broken a total of five times in seven matches. 
This year, Nadal already was broken nine times in three matches, and six in his opener alone. 
“In the first round, he played no good. He made so many mistakes. He was bro­ken so much. But after, he played so much better,” Uncle Toni said. “I’m not worried about his serve. His serve isn’t a problem.” 
Indeed, their biggest con­cern suddenly is when the weather will allow players to get back on court. As it is, the men in the second-seed­ed Nadal’s half of the draw 
— such as No. 4 Andy Mur­ray, No. 21 Andy Roddick and No. 28 John Isner — could be forced to play four matches in five days, or even worse. 
“We would prefer to play today, because after not play­ing today, every day is one day less,” Uncle Toni said. “That makes it more compli­cated.” 
The men in the other half of the field, including No. 1 Novak Djokovic and 16­time major champion Roger Federer, already have pro­gressed to the quarterfinals. 
“It’s a huge advantage for the top half right now. They have one match to play in the next four days, and the other guys have two — and then they’ll have two more after that,” said U.S. Davis Cup captain Jim Courier, a four-time Grand Slam title winner. “It’s the luck of the draw.” 
There is no permanent or retractable roof on any court used for matches at the U.S. Open, unlike at Wimbledon and the Australian Open. The French Open announced plans to install a retractable roof on center court by 2016. 
Citing financial concerns and technical complexities, the U.S. Tennis Association says it doesn’t have plans to put a roof on Arthur Ashe Stadium, although it is still studying possible options. Past estimates put the cost of a roof at $150 million to $200 million. 
And so wet weather affects plans at the year’s last Grand Slam tournament, where rain pushed the men’s final back a day to Monday in 2008, 2009 and 2010. The two-week U.S. Open began Aug. 29, and is scheduled to end Sunday. 
Tuesday was the first time play has been delayed by rain this year, postponing a total of 54 matches — four in the fourth round of men’s sin­gles, two in the quarterfinals of women’s singles, along with doubles and juniors — at least until Wednesday, when the forecast predicts more rain. 
The men’s matches origi­nally set for Tuesday were Nadal against unseeded Gilles Muller of Luxembourg; Roddick, the 2003 U.S. Open champion, against No. 5 Da­vid Ferrer of Spain; Isner against No. 12 Gilles Simon of France; and three-time Grand Slam finalist Murray against unseeded Donald Young of the United States. 



In women’s singles, No. 2 Vera Zvonareva was to face No. 9 Sam Stosur, and No. 26 Flavia Pennetta was sched­uled to play unseeded An­gelique Kerber of Germany. 

Those six matches now are on Wednesday’s schedule, plus the other two women’s quarterfinals — 13-time ma­jor champion Serena Wil­liams vs. No. 17 Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova, and No. 1 Caroline Wozniacki vs. No. 10 Andrea Petkovic — and the first two men’s quarter­finals — Djokovic vs. No. 20 Janko Tipsarevic, and Fe­derer vs. No. 11 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga. 
“It’s going to get crazy once it gets going,” Courier said. 

MLB 

Wilson leads Rangers to shutout of Tampa Bay 

Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — C.J. Wilson got his first career shut­out on a record-setting night for theTexas Rangers. 
Wilson threw a five-hitter, Da­vid Murphy drove in four runs and the AL West-leading Rangers beat theTampa Bay Rays 8-0 on Tuesday night. 
“He told us in the fifth inning that he was going to finish,” Texas manager Ron Washington said. “He had a good cutter work­ing. Tight slider. Moving his fast­ball around. He was in control.” 
The Rangers have 18 shutouts this season, one more than the previous team record set in 1977. 
“Wow … It’s awesome,” Wash­ington said. 
Wilson (15-6) matched his ca­reer high in wins from last year and became the first Texas left-hander to record 15 or more wins in consecutive seasons. He threw 117 pitches in his third complete game of the year. 
“I had enough pitches going,” said Wilson, who struck out six and walked three. “I was just mixing well.” 
Murphy and Ian Kinsler hom­ered for the Rangers, who are 3-2 on a six-game trip to Boston and Tampa Bay. Adrian Beltre extended his hitting streak to 12 games with a third-inning single. 
Tampa Bay right-hander Jeff Niemann (9-7) gave up seven runs and nine hits in 4 2-3 in­nings. He has lost three of his last four starts. 
Lead 
continued from page 24 
The third set featured a big turnaround for the Belles. They never lost the lead, though the Hornets managed to bring the score to a tie three different times. The Belles won 25-23. 
The fourth set was domi­nated by the Hornets, who tied Saint Mary’s at two, then nev-
Kinsler tied his own team re­cord, set in 2009, with his sev­enth leadoff homer this season in the first. He has 26 homers this year, including five in his last six games. 
Murphy started the second with his ninth homer, then hit a two-run double during Texas’ three-run third that made it 5-0. Josh Hamilton also had an RBI double in the third. 
Hamilton tweaked his back during the game, but still played eight innings. 
“No worries,” Washington said. 
Murphy finished with four hits and came within a triple of hit­ting for the cycle. 
Beltre hit a sacrifice fly and Murphy had a run-scoring dou­ble to make it 7-0 in the fifth. Mike Napoli added a run-scoring double in the eighth. 
Wilson was working on a per­fect game in last Thursday’s 7-2 win over the Rays when Casey Kotchman’s infield hit went off the pitcher’s left index finger in the sixth. Wilson departed after the inning. 
“It’s not 100 percent,” Wilson said. “I think that’s why earlier in the game I had a little bit of trouble with the control. But it’s getting there.” 
Kotchman got Tampa Bay’s first hit Tuesday when he flared an opposite-field single to left with one out in the second. Wil­son induced an inning-ending double play from Kotchman with two on in the fourth. 
er dropped below a two-point lead. Kalamazoo won the final set 25-18. 
Overall, Schneider had 12 kills and 10 digs, a respectable performance for the first year. Bodien followed her with 11 kills. 
Saint Mary’s will face defend­ing national champions and No. 1 Calvin on Sept. 10 at home at 7 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
NFL 

WR Edwards puts in extra time 
Associated Press 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. — Braylon Edwards regular­ly lures quarterback Alex Smith back onto the field for some extra work, a few more throws to make sure they’re clicking and on cue. Same goes for study sessions in the film room. 
They do it after practice, even on days off. 
In the short time since Ed­wards joined the San Fran­cisco 49ers, he has shown a commitment to his new team and a much-needed second chance out West with a fel­low Michigan man calling the shots: Jim Harbaugh. Edwards hopes to develop the best possible chemistry with Smith so he can return to the dynamic play-making receiver he has been in the past. 
He plans to stay out of trouble in the process. 
“I’m trying just to be a team guy, fit in, do the things necessary to help this team succeed,” Edwards said Tuesday. “I feel like I’ve done that behind the scenes and I will continue doing so.” 
He recently switched back to his old No. 17 jersey after wearing Terrell Owens’ for­mer No. 81 during training camp. 
While Edwards might not start Sunday’s season open­er against defending NFC West champion Seattle, he should take on a big role as he begins his seventh NFL season. 
So far, there have been no signs of the player who found trouble during a tu­multuous two-year tenure with the New York Jets. Har­baugh hopes it stays that way for someone he has watched grow up thanks to their Ann Arbor connection. 
The 28-year-old Edwards received a $3.5 million, one-year contract last month, giving San Francisco the strong, athletic wideout they sought to fit into Harbaugh’s West Coast offense. 
The Niners love his size. 
Edwards is 6-foot-3 and 214 pounds. He demon­strated his athleticism with a pretty one-handed catch along the sideline in a 17-3 exhibition win over the Oak­land Raiders on Aug. 20. 
“He brings a lot to us,” tight end Vernon Davis said. “He’s a big-time playmaker. He has that ability to really do that, especially in one­on-one battles.” 
Harbaugh made it clear when Edwards arrived that it was time for him to finally grow up and take responsi­bility for his behavior and his play. 
The well-mannered Ed­wards goes about his busi­ness without bringing any added attention to himself, something his teammates appreciate. 
“You can tell he loves what he does and that he’s serious about the game,” running back Frank Gore said. “I like any guy who approaches the game like he loves it, and that’s what he does. I’m hap­py he’s part of the Niners.” 
Polite and polished, Ed­wards hardly seems like someone with several legal run-ins. 

A Cleveland judge spared him jail time in July but ex­tended his Ohio probation by one year for violating terms by driving drunk in New York City last September. 
In January 2010, he plead­ed no contest in Cleveland to aggravated disorderly con­duct after being accused of punching a friend of NBA star LeBron James. 
While on his 18-month probation from the Cleveland case, Edwards was charged with driving while intoxi­cated in his Land Rover in Manhattan in September 2010. Police said his blood-alcohol level was twice the legal limit. 
He was linked to a bar fight in Michigan last month, but the 49ers said Tuesday they had been informed by the league that there would be no disciplinary action taken against Edwards, who later tweeted that he was fined. 
“I guess the good news is out 49er faithfuls, no sus­pension. I did get fined but I am in agreement and happy to move on,” Edwards said via his Twitter account. 
Edwards is working each day to do right. 
“More so just enjoying for right now, not looking too much into the future,” Ed­wards said. “I’m just enjoy­ing it day to day, week to week. I think that’s all you can do. For right now it feels good to have a fresh start.” 
Edwards’ new teammates and coaches don’t seem too concerned about any past problems as long as he con­tinues to exhibit the same focus and work ethic. 


Roster 
continued from page 24 
to recruit a player, never mind admit them, are very high and that obviously eliminates a lot of great players — we estimate up to 75 percent of the talent pool,” Kubinski said. “But at the same time we want to recruit the right kids, ones who will be a good fit for the team and for the Univer­sity.” 
Going along with the general trend in college athletics, the re­cruiting schedule has advanced over Kubinski’s seven years at Notre Dame, with schools and players seeking earlier commit­ments. Though he can’t contact amateur players until Sept. 1 of their junior year, Kubinski said many contact coaches much be­fore that. 
“It used to be that players took senior year visits, but now schools are looking for early ver­bal agreements,” Kubinski said. “In order to keep up with the top schools in the country, we need to target the same kids that they are.” 
Though Kubinski is limited in his ability to give early of­fers by Notre Dame’s strict aca­demic standards, that does not stop him from going after the top players in the country. Each Sept. 1, Kubinski contacts the top 100 players in the country, players that he has seen over the summer on national junior tours and on trips squeezed in between practice and competi­tion during the year. 
“Of the few hundred or so that we contact, we end up offering spots to about three or four golf­ers,” Kubinski said. “We usually land about 50 percent of our of­fers.” 
Unlike football or basketball, walk-ons to the golf team are rare. There have been three in Kubinski’s seven years at the helm. 
“Golf is a tough sport for a walk-on because it is so compet­itive, and in order to compete we have to go after the best players in the country,” Kubinski said. “That’s not to say that there is no chance. We did have a walk-on in 2007 who ended up an all-Big East selection, but that’s the ex­ception, not the rule.” 
Two members of Notre Dame’s projected 2012 recruiting class will join the team next year. 
Between academics, golf, and competition from other universi­ties, the sieve through which po­tential recruits are sifted is very fine. What falls through, Kubin­ski hopes, will be pure gold. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
Chance 
continued from page 24 
to improve. The tournament will also give Saint Mary’s a chance to see some of the top teams in the country and to evaluate its own team in comparison, Matuszak said. 
“It’s a really good preview to what the teams are going to be like this year and what they are going to be like in the spring because everyone who comes to this tour­nament will most likely members of the Saint Mary’s team, this tournament can be a first taste of the high­est level of competition in Division III. 

“I think it’s a really good learning experience for some of the younger girls on the team,” Matuszak said. “They are going to get to see what it’s like to play with the better teams and they get a little taste of what it’s like to be in a nationals setting with the caliber of teams that are going to be there.” 
The Belles, however, have the advantage of hosting 
the tourna­
ment. Ma­
tuszak said 
the tourna­
be at Na-“I think that since it’s ment brings tionals also, such a big tournament all the ben­and most and there are such good efits of a 
likely, they large con-
teams that are going to 
are going to test with-
be there, being the host 
be the top out all the 
puts a little bit more 

teams at hassles of 
pressure on us to do well.” 
Nationals,” travelling. she said. “The “It kind of Natalie Matuszak O’Brien gives us a Senior captain tourna­
good pre­view of what we need to work on and what we need to do in order to hope­fully beat these teams in the spring.” 
Although the National tournament is not until May, the Belles have already set their sights on making their fourth consecutive NCAA tournament appearance and improving upon last year’s fourth place finish. Methodist University, last year’s NCAA champion for Division III, will be among the participants at this year’s O’Brien Invitational after winning the first two installments of the yearly contest. 
For the less experienced ment, with 

it being in 
town, that’s 
really nice 
to not have to travel to go to a good tournament,” she said. 
But the role of host can also be a disadvantage for the Belles. 
“I think that since it’s such a big tournament and there are such good teams that are going to be there, being the host puts a little bit more pressure on us to do well,” Matuszak said. 
Teams will begin teeing off at 1 p.m. Sunday with play continuing at 8 a.m. Monday at the Warren Golf Course. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 



Rees 
continued from page 24 
cited that production as the ma­jor reason Rees earned the nod for Saturday’s clash at Michi­gan. 
“Tommy was very productive in the second half,” Kelly said. “The quarterback gets way too much blame and way too much praise … [Crist] didn’t have a lot of help on Saturday. You know, it wasn’t all Dayne Crist. Unfortunately it falls on the quarterback as the leader to be productive. That’s why we went with the decision.” 
Kelly said the decision was not an easy one to make, es­pecially following a protract­ed battle for the position that started in the spring and con­tinued throughout most of fall camp. 
“Any time you take your quar­terback out, those aren’t easy decisions, because they impact so many things that you’re do­ing,” Kelly said. “Any time you take your starting quarterback out, that’s not a good situation. [It was] a very difficult situa­tion that I felt needed to be ad­dressed.” 
Fixing the mistakes 
A number of Irish players made uncharacteristic mis­takes against South Florida, but Kelly expressed confidence that those players would be able to rebound come Saturday. 
Irish junior wide receiver Theo Riddick lost one fumble on a punt return and looked un­comfortable returning punts all game. Riddick also struggled as a receiver, dropping a number of passes. Kelly said the key for Riddick was not allowing him­self to get down mentally. 
“We will continue to go to Theo,” Kelly said. “The thing that he has to work on, obvi­ously, is his body language. You know, he can’t get down on him­self. We’re going to keep coming to him. He’s going to be our guy. He’s got to fight through a very difficult set of circumstances that were presented to him.” 
Irish senior running back Jonas Gray lost a red-zone fumble early in the game that was returned for a touchdown. Despite the mistake, Gray will continue to see the ball. 
“He’s got to go back out there,” Kelly said. “He’s got to play for us. He’s physically able to do it. Mentally he’s got to be able to do it. We’re not sitting him down. He’s got to play for us against Michigan, and he’s got to play for us all year.” 
Irish junior punter Ben Turk also struggled against the Bulls, averaging only 27.4 net yards per punt. Kelly is work­ing with Turk on translating his success in practice to game situations. 
“Ben’s got to go and do it, sim­ple as that,” Kelly said. “He’s the best, most talented guy we have. He’s just got to find him­self out there and be more con­sistent. And based upon what I’ve seen, he can do it. He can hit it down the fairway. We’ve just got to get him to do it on Saturday.” 
Preparing for Ann Arbor 
Kelly said his players have already put the opening loss behind them and are looking forward to taking on the Wol­verines. 
“There’s nothing like getting back to work for our football team, especially after a loss. So our focus has been Michigan,” Kelly said. “Getting our players focused on Michigan will not be difficult at all. We know the challenge in front of us.” 
Kelly also discussed some of the unique challenges inher­ent in preparing for Saturday’s game, which will be the first night game in Michigan Stadi­um history. 
“It’s going to be a great at­mosphere, [and] it’s exciting to continue this rivalry. We need to start winning some of these games in this rivalry,” Kelly said. “We’re excited about ob­viously getting an opportunity to play [on] a grand stage in a great atmosphere.” 
Saturday’s contest is the first of five night games the Irish are scheduled to play this year, and Kelly said he has optimized a routine to get his players through the long wait before the game. 
“I think I have a pretty good system in place on how to keep the guys moving, you know, but not to the point they’re using up a lot of nervous energy prior to the game,” he said. “We want them to peak at that 8:05 [p.m.] start.” 
With over 110,000 fans ex­pected to be on hand at Michi­gan Stadium, Kelly does not be­lieve there is a single thing he can do to prepare his team for the hostile atmosphere. 
“I don’t know of any way [to simulate the atmosphere],” he said. “You’ve just got to do it. You’ve just got to overcome.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
wanted to improve upon. 
“Sometimes we blow some good chances in the attacking third with some of the choices we make up there. Some of our finish­ing could be better,” Joyce said. “We had to generate a lot of chances to get our goals, which you don’t al­ways get to do in a close game or against a good team or a ranked team.” 
The strong follow-up to an impressive showing in last weekend’s Defiance Classic bodes well for the Belles as their conference season — and tougher com­petition — draws closer, according to Joyce. 
“I think the weekend was a little bit easier, this was a much tougher chal­lenge,” Joyce said. “It was nice to see us slowly pro­gressing and playing well with the competition level getting higher, especially since our conference sea­son starts fairly soon.” 

The Belles will look to protect their perfect record Sunday at noon at Franklin College in Franklin, Ind. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE JOE MILLER AND KELLy LyNCH JUMBLE HENRy ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 



Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 


Wednesday, September 7, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Sophomore Switch 
Kelly names Rees starter for Saturday 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
Two weeks to the day after naming senior Dayne Crist the starting quarterback and after only two quarters with Crist as starter, Irish coach Brian Kelly announced Tuesday that sopho­more Tommy Rees would be the starter moving forward. 
“Look, nobody wants to go in and change their quarterbacks each and every week. That’s just not the way you play this game,” Kelly said. “So we don’t come to this decision thinking ‘well, he’ll give us one game and we’ll go back to Dayne.’ That’s obviously not why we made this decision. We believe that Tommy is capable of lead­ing this football team, just as I believed strongly that Dayne is capable.” 
Rees threw for nearly 300 yards in the second half of Notre Dame’s 23-20 loss to South Florida Sept. 3, and Kelly 
see REES/page 20 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Kalamazoo edges SMC in five sets 
Observer Staff Report 
The Belles were hit hard in their conference opener against Kalamazoo, losing 3-1 (28-26, 25-20, 23-25, 25-18). 
Saint Mary’s (1-4, 0-1 MIAA) had a lead in the first set, pull­ing a quick 19-12 lead thanks to a kill by first-year outside hit­ter Kati Schneider. From there, the Belles struggled against the Hornets until Kalamazoo tied it at 24. Kalamazoo pulled ahead 25-24, but the set-point was de­flected by a kill from junior out­side hitter Stephanie Bodien. 
The Hornets offense proved to be too much for the Belles and the Hornets took the first set with three straight points, ending the set with a score of 28-26. 
In the second set, the Hornets and the Belles battled back and forth, with the lead switching multiple times before Kalama­zoo took the set 25-20. 
see LEAD/page 18 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles maintain unblemished record after thrilling victory 
By VICKY JACOBSEN the net. Four minutes later, since 2007. But Joyce was off a nice combination from returned fire, tying up the Sports Writer sophomore midfielder Mad-especially glad to see some a couple of forwards, and it game with just over 20 min-
die Meckes, assisted by first of the techniques the Belles was nice to see the forwards utes to go. 

Two goals in the final 10 year Abby Garcia, poked had worked on at practice on the same page early and The Belles also threat-minutes broke a 1-1 tie and the ball into the corner of pay off in competition. getting used to connecting ened with 14 minutes left in led Saint Mary’s to a thrill-the goal. Although not as “A couple of [goals] came and combining for goals.” the game when junior mid­ing 3-1 victory over Man-dramatic as Tondo-Steele’s off crosses, and we’d like to Sophomore forward Jor-fielder Ashley Morfin shot chester. goal, the final score sealed use that as one of our ways dan Diffenderfer scored from just in front of the 
With less than eight min-the victory for the Belles (3-of attack, finish off crosses the first goal of the game goal, but the shot dribbled utes left in the tie game, 0). and get down into the cor-on a cross from sophomore just to the right of the net. first-year forward Kelly Belles coach Michael ners,” Joyce said. “That’s forward Kaitlin Teichman, Joyce said that this type of Wilson set up senior captain Joyce was pleased to col-something we’ve been con-giving Saint Mary’s the missed opportunity was one Katelyn Tondo-Steele, who lect another victory for the centrating on so it’s nice to lead with six minutes left aspect of the Belles game he sent a rocket of a shot into Belles, who reached a 3-0 finish off a couple of cross-in the first half. In the sec-the wide-open right half of record for the first time es. The other [goal] came ond half, the Spartans (1-2) see BELLES/page 20 
MEN’S GOLF 

Kubinski targets nation’s best 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Irish coach Jim Kubinski es­timates that he communicates with 400 to 500 prospective student-athletes per recruiting class each year. Of that number, only two or three will enroll at the University and join the team. 
The men’s golf team, though it has no limit on the number of players it can carry on its roster, is limited to 4.5 scholar­ships and subjected to rigorous of academic standards, a chal­lenge that Kubinski thinks can be an advantage as well as a hindrance. 
“Our academic standards just 
see ROSTER/page 19 

SMC GOLF 

Invitational brings top competition to Warren 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
The Belles prepare to host the third annual O’Brien National Invitational tour­nament this weekend, which welcomes the top nine teams in Division III golf. 
Saint Mary’s (0-1) may have to slightly adjust its expectations for the tourna­ment, though, with an un­dersized roster that lacks several players who are studying overseas for the semester. 
“We want to win, of course, but I don’t think we are going to be really disap­pointed if we don’t,” senior captain Natalie Matuszak said. “We want to do well, and I think we are taking this more as a learning ex­perience for the younger girls who haven’t been in the top five before, because most of the team hasn’t.” 

Coming off a defeat in their first match of the fall season, the Belles are hop­ing to use the Invitational as an early season chance 
see CHANCE/page 19 





