
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


New scholarship honors athleticism, integrity 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame’s Play Like a Champion Today (PLC) program will expand its scholarships that honor young athletes for their moral integrity instead of sheer athletic ability, program direc­tor Kristin Sheehan said. 
Sheehan said the program has partnered with the Trusted Sports Foundation, a non-profit organization in Oregon, to create 12 new scholarships this year. 
The PLC program, an initiative developed through the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE), strives to educate youth and high school coaches nationally to develop character and integrity in athletes physically, emotion­ally, morally and spiritually. 
The Inspireum Soccer Awards, initiated this year, will give $25,000 in academic scholar­ships to 12 high school soccer players who best exemplify a combination of athletic ability, courage and personal character. 
Sheehan said the Soccer Awards would give more young female athletes a chance to be recognized. 
“This award certainly opens the field for young women to be acknowledged for character this year,” she said. 
Sheehan said the Soccer Awards program is one of two awards programs sponsored by PLC and the Trusted Sports Foundation. The second pro­gram, the High School Football Rudy Awards, and the Soccer Awards honor young athletes for their courage in the face of dif­ficult circumstances. 
“Very often that award would exemplify someone beating the odds, a situation when an athlete had [faced] adversity in his or her life and continues to flourish in [his or her] character,” Shee­han said. “Really, these kids are heroes.” 
Sheehan said so much empha­sis is placed on physical perfor­mance today that young athletes can easily lose sight of how im­portant personal character is to sports. 
“In a world where we some­times have negative examples of sports figures who are excellent at what they do physically, they aren’t [necessarily] the best [role models,]” she said. 
The High School Football Rudy Awards program presents $25,000 in academic scholar­ships annually to 12 young football players recognized for a commitment to excellence as well as demonstrated personal character. 
The awards are based on the story of Daniel “Rudy” Ruettiger, known for his determination to make the Notre Dame foot­ball team as shown in the film, “Rudy.” 


“They are awarded to a high school student who most exem­plifies the ‘Rudy’ spirit,” Shee­han said. “That is integrity … perseverance, persistence, hard work . all those virtues and val­ues that we would applaud from a young athlete.” 
Sheehan said PLC began its partnership with the Trusted Sports Foundation back in 2008 after Ruettiger, who is involved with the charity, came to speak at PLC’s annual sports leader­ship conference. 


see CHAMPION/page 4 



Club practices art of gongfu 
Students compete in Tough Mudder race 


By AUBREY BUTTS 
News Writer 
Graduate student Erik Blair has found the perfect outlet for stress in the middle of his busy schedule. 
Blair turns to gongfu, a unique martial arts form, along with other members of the Gongfu Club he founded earlier this semester. 
“I get so much out of teach­ing martial arts,” Blair said. “Teaching techniques strengthens my grasp of those techniques and deep­ens my skill. I think the re­lationships I build out of it are the best part. It’s really a lot of fun when you have students who are motivated to learn and to teach others also.” 

Blair first learned gongfu and earned his black belt in the discipline during his time as an instructor at the U.S. Naval Academy. 
“Upon coming back to Notre Dame for a Ph.D., I didn’t want the knowledge to evaporate, and I still want­ed to advance in the art,” Blair said. “That led me to desire to teach others and that led to the club.” 
Sophomore Thomas Vout­sos joined the club when it first began this semester. He said he especially enjoys the welcoming atmosphere of the club and gongfu’s relevance in his own life. 
“Erik and the club mem­bers have been great teach­ers and very welcoming” Voutsos said. “The best part about participating in the club is learning a com­pletely new skill that can 
have real life applications in the future. It is great ex­ercise, and the body move­ments, combined with mental focus, create a very unique inner feeling during and af­ter gongfu practices.” 
While Voutsos entered the club with no prior mar­tial arts experience, he said his skills have quickly pro­gressed, thanks to Blair’s guidance. 
see GONGFU/page 4 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Several Notre Dame students participated in a race through a giant obstacle course this week­end, an obstacle course that ends in a field of live wires that carry a 10,000-Volt shock. 
Sophomores Ryan Tixier, Dan Yerkes and Kevin Colvin tested their endurance in the Tough Mud­der course Saturday and Sunday in Attica, Ind. They joined more than 6,500 other participants in the 12-mile obstacle course. 
“Tough Mudder has some crazy obstacles, but it’s worth it because it’s for a charity that helps return­ing vets readjust to life back home,” Tixier said. “Our roommate, Kevin, sent us a link on Facebook about it earlier in the semester, so we all grabbed onto it.” 
Tixier said British Special Forc­es designed the course to be a test of strength, mental grit and cama­raderie. 
see MUDDER/page 4 
ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Alumna serves through ACE page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u A new look at NYC page 8 u Irish football to face Stanford page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Tuesday, November 22, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE BATHROOM ON CAMPUS? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Megan Doyle Sam Gans Marisa Iati Matthew Nicole Michels DeFranks Graphics Vicky Jacobsen Elisa De Castro Scene Photo Courtney Cox Thomas La Viewpoint Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS A Nov. 18 article misrepresented the views of Victoria Tin-bor Hui, assistant professor of political science. Her lecture explained arguments regarding the expansion of China, but these arguments do not necessarily reflect her personal beliefs. The Observer regrets this error.  
HIGH 48 LOW 39 


Hung Anh Ta  Zak Kapopoulos  Yitong Zheng  Matthew Ong  Leon Zhou  Mary McKenna  
freshman Keough  senior off-campus  senior off-campus  senior off-campus  senior Stanford  senior off-campus  
“Keough 4B.”  “The South Dining Hall dungeon bathroom.”  “Main building.”  “The troughs at the stadium.”  “Hesburgh basement.”  “The fourth floor of Walsh. We had a great three years together.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Ohio man fighting charge over rubber ax 
AKRON, Ohio — An Ohio man who carried a rubber prop ax into a bar before Halloween is trying to get prosecutors to dismiss an inducing panic charge. 
The Akron Beacon Jour­nal reports that 42-year-old Bill Morrison is a Hallow­een enthusiast who has long worked on seasonal haunt­ed house attractions. He told Akron police he went to Corky’s Thomastown bar on Oct. 16 to sell a friend the costume ax, which had red paint to make it appear bloody. 
A woman who saw Mor­rison with the ax under his coat called 911 and said he looked suspicious. 

Morrison was jailed over­night before being released on bond. 
His attorney, Ed Sawan, says the charges appear to be unfounded. Akron City Prosecutor Doug Powley indicates his office is still studying the case. 
Woman tries to smuggle contraband in hollow Bible 
LANCASTER, S.C. — Deputies in South Caro­lina say a woman used two hollowed-out Bibles to try to smuggle weapons, drugs and a cell phone to a prison inmate. 
Sheriff Barry Faile said Monday authorities began investigating 28-year-old Shareca Latoya Jones ear­lier this month after a pack­age mailed to Lieber Cor­rectional Institution was returned to a post office in Lancaster. Inside the pack­age were two Bibles con­taining razor knives, a cell phone, ecstasy pills and more than 28 grams of co­caine. 
Deputies identified Jones as the person who mailed the package from a Ker­shaw post office. In her car, authorities found a loaded handgun, drugs, cell phones and cash. 
Jones is facing drug and contraband charges. She was released from jail on bond, and it wasn’t known if she had an attorney. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
A memorial service will be held today at 9:30 a.m. in the Basilica for Professor J. Keith Rigby, Jr. A reception will follow in the Morris Inn at 10:45 a.m. 
The Catholic Charismatic prayer group will gather to­day from 7:30 to 8:30 p.m. in the Alumni Hall Cha­pel. Contact Rev. Edward O’Connor for more informa­tion at 574-631-7651. 
Today, the St. Mary’s bas­ketball team will play An­derson  University in the An­gela Athletic Facility from 

7:30 to 9:30 p.m. 
Four:7 Catholic Fellow­ship meets every Tuesday from 8:30 to 9:45 p.m. in the Cavanaugh Hall Chapel. The group is for those look­ing to encounter a vibrant Catholic faith through mu­sic and discussion. Four:7 engages in other activities meant to inspire a commu­nity founded in faith, bring­ing that faith to everyday life. 
The Thanksgiving holiday break will start on Wednes­day, Nov. 23, and lasts until next Sunday, Nov. 21. 
Mass at the Basilica will be held from 10 to 11 a.m. on Sunday, Nov. 27. The Notre Dame Liturgical Choir will provide music. 
This Sunday, Nov. 27, the Notre Dame men’s basket­ball team will play Bryant College from 2 to 4 p.m in the Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
SARAH O’CONNOR/ The Observer 

Fans celebrate Dillon Hall’s 19-14 victory over Sorin College in the men’s football interhall championship game Sunday afternoon. Dillon fans rushed the field of Notre Dame Stadium after the game. 


OFFBEAT 
LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 









HIGH 46 LOW 34 
HIGH 54 LOW 41 
HIGH 56 LOW 49 
HIGH 51 LOW 37 

Tuesday, November 22, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
Holiday food prices climb 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Turkey, cranberry sauce and pumpkin pie are usu­ally staples on a traditional Thanksgiving table. 
However, Saint Mary’s eco­nomics profes­sor Rich­ard Mea­sell said that table might look differ­ent this holid ay for some American families due to the rising costs of food. 
“We’re seeing higher pric­es generally in the economy, but food prices are going up higher than overall prices out there,” Measell said. 
This year, inflation has in­creased at an annual rate of four percent, which is a high­er rate than previous years, Measell said. However, food prices are increasing at a rate of six percent. 
While food prices in the grocery store increase, Mea­sell said the price of restau­rant meals have not increased proportionally. 
“Restaurant prices, howev­er, have not been going up as much,” Measell said. “There is just more competition among restaurants than gro­cery stores. For restaurants, there [are] a wider variety of choices [than grocery stores] and the increased competi­tion held food prices more in check.” 
Measell said these prices are climbing for a number of reasons, including a rise in the price of corn, higher en­ergy costs and greater global demand for food. 


“The costs for farming [are] higher, and that is one thing that is passed along to the customers on the supply side,” Measell said. “And on the de­mand side, we have a stronger global demand for food.” 
As the U.S. economy and other global economies pick up, Measell said the demand for food would continue to jump. 
Measell said families could cut down on their Thanksgiv­ing grocery bill by looking for store specials. A “loss leader,” for example, is a product that is lowered in price to encour­age consumers to buy other goods. Thanks­giving staples like turkey could be loss 
“I guess sweet potatoes are in great supply this year, and one local store is selling them for 25 cents a pound,” he said. 
Resources like coupons and advertisements in the Sunday newspaper can help a con­sumer find the best prices on Thanksgiving, Measell said, adding that the financial strain of the holiday season might add to a family’s bills. 
“Some people, especially at Christmas, will be willing to go into a lot of debt to make sure their kids have a good Christmas,” he said. “Sadly, they will rack up more debt than they can probably han­dle for their kids to have a good Christmas and will have to pay that off for the rest of 
the year.” 
Howev­
er, he said 
consum ­

leaders right now, he said. “I don’t know if the stores ac­tually sell them for a loss, but  “We’re seeing higher prices generally in the economy, but food prices are going up higher than overall prices out there.”  ers would also need to make decisions a b o u t what their  
… this concept of loss leaders  Richard Measell  p ri o ri ­ties are as  
really  helps  SMC economics professor  food costs  

you under­stand how they price things at this time,” he said. “You would think that at Thanksgiving, turkeys would be way more expensive, as opposed to less expensive. But they put them on sale, and it’s really interesting that stores know what customers want, and with competition, they charge the lower price of those items than what you would normally be spending.” 
One Thanksgiving food that is inexpensive this year is sweet potatoes. 
rise. 
“People 
are going 
to become more cautions on how they spend their money, but [for] some people, it’s life,” he said. “Thanksgiving and Christ­mas are big times, and you don’t want to skimp at those. And I think that some peo­ple will maybe cut out other things to maybe have a better Thanksgiving and a better Christmas.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


Alumna serves through Alliance for Catholic Ed. 

By NORA KENNEY 
News Writer 
When 2011 Notre Dame graduate Vickey McBride in­terned with the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) pro­gram during her senior year at Notre Dame, her job was to educate prospective teachers about the program and re­cruit applicants. 
Now, McBride lives the life she only talked about as an intern, teaching ninth-grade students in Brownsville, TX, at St. Joseph Academy, a pre­paratory school close to the Mexican border. 
The transition between studying history at Notre Dame and teaching social studies in a predominantly Latino high school was a sig­nificant one, McBride said. 
“The individual students are the most inspirational part of it,” McBride said. “When I’m having a really bad day and don’t want to go to school and I’m dreading the first bell ringing, all it takes is for that one student to walk in the door.” 
When McBride began her internship in the ACE of­fice during her senior year, she automatically received a place in the competitive teaching program for her first two years after graduation. 
Now that she has begun her program, these students motivate McBride to give as much of her energy as pos­sible to her work in the ACE program, she said. 
“Seeing their faces and in there seats, looking up at me and expecting something from me, it puts me in the zone,” she said. “I feel very much called to do the best that I can.  It’s hard to slack off when you know that you 140 people [are] staring up at you asking for knowledge.” 
McBride said she was not sure what to expect from her high school students. 
“I figured, I’m in high school,” McBride said. “They’re going to be so ma­ture.  Not so much the case. 
They’re just so goofy and so awkward sometimes. They’re just a lot goofier than I ex­pected, which in a way is great because they’re not jad­ed, as you might think high school kids will be.” 
Some of the students at McBride’s school take a bus across the U.S.-Mexico border to get to school each morning, McBride said. In her predomi­nantly Latino high school, McBride said the majority of her students are completely bilingual. 
She added that she em­braced the chance to improve her Spanish skills, while also eating a lot of Mexican food. 
“Oh my gosh, [Mexican food is] the best,” she said. “You have no idea until you come here and try it.”
 Food is also an important part of the house where Mc­Bride lives with seven other ACE participants, she said. Five of her housemates are also Notre Dame alumni. 
“We have a ton of fun,” McBride said. “It’s the best part of being in ACE for me. Everybody is so committed to being there for each other and spending time with each other.” 
The group gathers for a “family” meal three nights a week, she said. 
“Last Tuesday we made chili and cornbread,” she said. “I’m not that great of a cook, but the girl I cook with is great.” 
The close relationships de­veloped in the ACE house reflect the organization’s commitment to community, McBride said. 
“We really are a family,” McBride said. “That’s not just an exaggeration or a cute lit­tle Notre Dame story.  We’re all different people who ran in different circles at Notre Dame, but everyone in the house is really committed to making the experience not just bearable, but memora­ble.” 
Contact Nora Kenney at                  hkenney@nd.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Tuesday, November 22, 2011 

was fairly well-experienced with martial arts prior to training in Gongfu, but I continued from page 1 would say that it has signifi­cantly improved my form to 
“In this semester, I have experience Gongfu.” been able to earn a yellow During their Gongfu work-belt and I am currently work-outs, both Geraci and Rob ing on earning an orange McKenna said they enjoy the belt,” Voutsos said. “Erik is a kiba-dachi stance, which great teach-mimics a er, which wall -sit has allowed exercise 
Gongfu 

“In the long term, I would 
me to learn without 
like to get students, faculty 
a lot in just the sup-
and staff members to black 
one semes-port of a 
belt so that the club can 
ter.” wall. Unlike be self-sustaining, for I “I 
Vo utsos, know that I won’t be here think my sopho-at Notre Dame forever.” favorite more Max memory Geraci did so far is 
Erik Blair 
have previ-the time 
founder of the Gongfu Club 
ous martial I had to arts experi-hold a ence before squat for joining Gongfu Club. several minutes as part of a 
“I did practice martial arts black belt test in February,” before joining the club and McKenna said. had obtained a black belt in Saint Mary’s junior Eliza-Tae Kwon Do,” Geraci said. “I beth Schroff said she appre­ciates the communal aspect of the club and the ability to assume a teaching role at practices. 
“Everyone in the club here is really dedicated to the art, and they are all awesome to work with,” Schroff said. “Being a green belt, I really enjoy getting the opportuni­ty to help teach the younger belts and give them tips on how to improve and progress in the art.” 
Blair said he hopes Gongfu Club can continue as an ex­citing way for students, staff and faculty from Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s to learn or progress in martial arts techniques. 
“In the long term, I would like to get students, faculty and staff members to black belt so that the club can be self-sustaining, for I know that I won’t be here at Notre Dame forever,” Blair said. 
Contact Aubrey Butts at abutts@nd.edu 
Champion 
continued from page 1 
Any student across the na­tion can be considered for the awards, Sheehan said. 
“What we talk about is how to create champions from every child,” Sheehan said. “The char­acter traits that we would focus on would be hard work, deter­mination, persistence, fortitude, 
Mudder 
continued from page 1 
All proceeds from the weekend’s race support the Wounded War­riors Project, a charity that helps soldiers returning from overseas readjust to life in the United States. Some of these veterans participat­ed in the race, Tixier said. 
“The most satisfying thing is that you’re actually helping people,” Tixier said. “There were some re­turning vets from Iraq there, one with prosthetic legs, who did it too. That just made it much more real. It was a really great event overall.” 
Icy water, swamps and blazing bales of kerosene-soaked straw greeted the participants at each turn of the course, according to the race website. Other obstacles included trails of cargo nets, 12­foot high walls and wire fields. 
“You’d run two miles, then scale a rope and drop 20 feet into an icy lake. You would swim under barri­ers and could barely move at some points,” Tixier said. “At another you crawled through a trench with dangling barbed wires filled with electricity hanging down. You’d feel jolts, but you kept going.” 
Yerkes, who ran the Chicago Marathon in October and quali­fied for the Boston Marathon, said the military-style obstacles were very different from other endur­ance races. They made teamwork necessary to complete the course. 
Tixier said he was surprised by the level of camaraderie displayed at the event. Though participants were physically exhausted, he said they were enthusiastic and helped 

Teenager pleads guilty to killing gay student 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — A Southern California teenager pleaded guilty Monday to second-degree murder for killing a gay student during a computer lab class three years ago in a plea deal that will send him to prison for 21 years and avoid a retrial. 
Brandon McInerney, 17, pleaded guilty to the murder charge, as well as one count each of voluntary manslaugh­ter and use of a firearm, said Ventura County Chief Deputy District Attorney Mike Frawley. McInerney is scheduled to be sentenced Dec. 19. 
The case drew wide attention because of its shocking prem­ise: McInerney, in a fit of homo­phobic rage, killed 15-year-old Larry King at E.O. Green Junior High School in Oxnard because he was offended by King’s dress and how the victim interacted with him. 
Larry King’s father, Greg King, told KABC-TV he under­stands why prosecutors agreed to the plea deal. 
“I don’t think that 21-year sentence is justice for my son, but I understand the reality that was facing the DA of trying to convict a defendant who was 14 ... when he committed the mur­der,” Greg King said. 
Comic Ellen DeGeneres, a lesbian, weighed in on her talk show shortly after the shoot­ing and said gays shouldn’t be treated as second-class citizens. 
McInerney was only 14 at the time of the February 2008 shooting. Several jurors said af­ter the teen’s trial earlier this year that he should never have been tried as an adult. 
A mistrial was declared in September when jurors couldn’t reach a unanimous decision on the degree of guilt. The panel took a series of votes, the last one with seven jurors in favor of voluntary manslaughter and five supporting either first-de­gree or second-degree murder. The trial had been moved from Ventura County to Los Angeles because of pretrial publicity. 
Frawley said prosecutors agreed to the plea deal because of uncertainty about what might result from a second trial. 
“We took that into account and looked at what it would take to protect the community,” Frawley said. “The total time in custody for 25 years will do that.” 
respect, justice, sportsmanship, integrity, care for others and passion.” 
Sheehan said a champion isn’t always the star player on the team, but a person of both ath­letic excellence and character. 
“What this award really cel­ebrates is … character and in­tegrity through sports,” she said. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at                  sfelsens@nd.edu 
one another finish the course. 
“You’d stay at one place for five minutes to pull people over an ob­stacle,” Tixier said. “My roommate Kevin helped a girl over a muddy log because she couldn’t move. She had said, ‘My legs don’t work.’ But she rested and ended up finishing the course later.” 
Teamwork, physical exhaustion and determination were on full display during the course’s final sprint, Tixier said. 
“The very last obstacle was the field of live wires. You’d see the finish line, but stood there for two minutes with 20 other people try­ing to get the will power to just do it,” he said. “But it was a good last obstacle because it brought the life back into you.” 
The contestants celebrated the end of the race with music and food, as well as free tattoos or a head-shave, Tixier said. 
“They had a big stage with music, but most people huddled around fires,” Tixier said. “We were just happy to have survived. I did get my head shaved with a Mohawk before the race started though. You could get that or a mullet.” 
While the race was tougher and colder than he expected, Tixier said he planned to participate in a Tough Mudder event again. 
“I’ll do it again, but not during No­vember,” Tixier said. “There were too many ice water swims where your entire body just goes numb. If I did it again, it would be during the summer months and I’d get more guys from my dorm to do it.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at                        ntoczaue@nd.edu 

Gates testifies in Microsoft lawsuit 

Associated Press 

SALT LAKE CITY — Micro­soft’s Windows 95 rollout pre­sented the most challenges in the company’s history, leading to several last-minute changes to technical features that would no longer support a rival soft­ware maker’s word processor, Bill Gates testified Monday in a $1 billion antitrust lawsuit filed by the former owner of Word-Perfect. 
“We worked super hard,” the Microsoft co-founder said. “It was the most challenging, trying project we had ever done.” 
Gates was the first witness to testify Monday as Microsoft law­yers presented their case in the trial that’s been ongoing in fed­eral court in Salt Lake City for about a month. He is set to re­sume testimony Tuesday morn­ing. 
Utah-based Novell Inc. sued Microsoft Corp. in 2004, claim­ing the Redmond, Wash., com­pany violated U.S. antitrust laws through its arrangements with other software makers when it launched Windows 95. No­vell says it was later forced to sell WordPerfect for a $1.2 bil­lion loss. Novell is now a wholly owned subsidiary of The At­tachmate Group, the result of a merger that was completed ear­lier this year. 
Gates said Novell just couldn’t deliver a Windows 95 compat­ible WordPerfect program in time for its rollout, and its own Word program was actually bet­ter. He said that by 1994, Micro­soft’s Word writing program was ranked No. 1 in the market above WordPerfect. 
Gates called it an “important win.” 
He testified later that Micro­soft had to dump a technical fea­ture that would have supported WordPerfect because he feared it would crash the operating sys­tem. 

Tuesday, November 22, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
Committee fails to address debt crisis 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Congress’ supercommittee conceded ig­nominious defeat Monday in its quest to conquer a gov­ernment debt that stands at a staggering $15 trillion, un­able to overcome deep and en­during political divisions over taxes and spending. 
Stock prices plummeted at home and across debt-scarred Europe as the panel ended its brief, secretive existence without an agreement. Repub­licans and Democrats alike pointed fingers of blame, ma­neuvering for political advan­tage in advance of 2012 elec­tions less than a year away. 
The impasse underscored grave doubts about Washing­ton’s political will to make tough decisions and left a cloud of uncertainty over the 
U.S. economy at the same time that Greece, Italy, Spain and other European countries are reeling from a spreading debt crisis and recession worries. 
Lawmakers of both parties agreed action in Congress was still required, somehow, and soon. 
“Despite our inability to bridge the committee’s signif­icant differences, we end this process united in our belief that the nation’s fiscal crisis must be addressed and that we cannot leave it for the next generation to solve,” the pan­el’s two co-chairs, Sen. Patty Murray, D-Wash., and Rep. Jeb Hensarling, R-Tex., said in a somber statement. 
They added it was not pos­sible to present “any biparti­san agreement” — omitting any reference to the goal of $1.2 trillion in cuts over a de­cade that had been viewed as a minimum for success. 
President Barack Obama 
— criticized by Republicans for keeping the committee at arm’s length — said refusal by the GOP to raise taxes on the wealthy as part of a deal that also cut social programs was the main stumbling block. 
“They simply will not budge from that negotiating posi­tion,” he said. 
Obama pledged to veto any attempt by lawmakers to re­peal a requirement for $1 tril­lion in automatic spending cuts that are to be triggered by the supercommittee’s fail­ure to reach a compromise, unless Congress approves an alternative approach. 
Those cuts are designed to fall evenly on the military and domestic government pro­grams beginning in 2013, and Defense Secretary Leon Pa­netta as well as lawmakers in both parties have warned the impact on the Pentagon could be devastating. 
“In my four decades in­volved with public service, I have never been more con­cerned about the ability of Congress to forge common­sense solutions to the nation’s pressing problems,” Panetta, a former House budget com­mittee chairman, said in a statement. “The half-trillion dollars in additional cuts de­manded by sequester would lead to a hollow force incapa­ble of sustaining the missions it is assigned.” 


EGYPT 

Violent protest erupts in Cairo 
Associated Press 

CAIRO — Egypt’s civilian Cabinet offered to resign Mon­day after three days of violent clashes between demonstra­tors and security forces in Tahrir Square, but the action failed to satisfy protesters deeply frustrated with the new military rulers. 
The Health Ministry and a doctor at an improvised field hospital on the square said at least 26 people have been killed and 1,750 wounded in the latest violence as activists sought to fill the streets for a “second revolution” to force out the generals who have failed to stabilize the country, salvage the economy or bring democracy. 
Throughout the day, young protesters demanding the military hand over power to a civilian government fought with black-clad police, hurl­ing stones and firebombs and throwing back the tear gas canisters being fired by police into the square, which was the epicenter of the movement that ousted authoritarian leader Hosni Mubarak. 
By midnight tens of thou­sands of protesters were in the huge downtown square. 
The clashes have deepened the disarray among Egypt’s political ranks, with the pow­erful Muslim Brotherhood balking at joining in the dem­onstrations, fearing that tur­moil will disrupt elections next week that the Islamists expect to dominate. 
The protests in Tahrir and elsewhere across this nation of some 85 million people have forced the ruling military council as well as the Cabinet it backs into two concessions, but neither were significant enough to send anyone home. 
The council issued an anti-graft law that bans anyone convicted of corruption from running for office or holding a government post, a move that is likely to stop senior mem­bers from the Mubarak regime from running for public office. 
Hours later, the Cabinet of Prime Minister Essam Sharaf submitted its resignation to the council, a move that was widely expected given the government’s perceived ineffi­ciency and its almost complete subordination to the generals. 
Protesters cheered and shouted “God is great!” when the news arrived of the Cabi­net resignation offer, but they almost immediately resumed their chant of “The people want to topple the field mar­shal” — a reference to military ruler Field Marshal Hussein Tantawi. 
“We are not clearing the square until there is a na­tional salvation government that is representative and has full responsibility,” said activ­ist Rami Shaat, who was at the site. 
The council released a state­ment late Monday calling for a national dialogue to 
“urgently 
“We are not clearing 
study the “emergency 
the square until there 
reasons for laws,” ex-
is a national salvation 
the cur-panded to cov­rent crisis government that is er “thuggery” and ways to representative and has and criticizing overcome full responsiblity.” the military. It it.” said the army The state-has placed 
Rami Shaat 
ment, car-arbitrary re-
activist 
ried by Egypt’s state news agency, said the military deeply re­grets the loss of life and has ordered the Justice Ministry to form a committee to inves­tigate the incidents of the past few days. The military said it ordered security forces to take measures that would protect demonstrators, who have the right to peaceful protest. 
White House spokesman Jay Carney said the United States was deeply concerned about the violence and urged restraint on all sides so Egypt could proceed with a timely transition to democracy. 
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon also deplored the loss of life and called on authorities “to guarantee the protection of human rights and civil liber­ties for all Egyptians, includ­ing the right to peaceful pro­test,” U.N. spokesman Martin Nesirky said. 
Amnesty International harshly criticized the military rulers in a new report, saying they have “completely failed to live up their promises to Egyptians to improve human rights.” 
The London-based group documented steps by the mili­tary that have fallen short of increasing human rights and in some cases have made matters worse than under Mubarak. 
“The euphoria of the upris­ing has been replaced by fears that one repressive rule has simply been replaced with an­other,” according to the report, 
issued Tues­
day. 
The report 
called for re­
peal of the 
Mubarak-era 
strictions on 
media and 
other outlets. 
Egyptia n 
security forc­
es have con­tinued to use torture against demonstrators, the report said, and some 12,000 civilians have been tried in military trials, which it called “unfair.” 
In many ways, the protests in Tahrir bore a striking re­semblance to the 18-day upris­ing that toppled Mubarak. The chants are identical, except that Tantawi’s name has re­placed Mubarak’s. 
“The people want the execu­tion of the marshal,” protest­ers screamed Monday. The hallmark chant of “erhal,” or “leave,” that once was aimed at Mubarak is now meant for Tantawi, his defense minister for 20 years. 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, November 22, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Why I love Turkey Day (aka food) 
With the impending Thanksgiv­ing break approaching, I thought I’d provide a reflection on some of my favorite things about my favorite holiday of the year. Here’s my Top 10 list of why I love Thanksgiving. 
10. Football. Thanksgiving is famous for its slate of football games, and in my house­hold the under­whelming athleti­cism of myself (a 5’6” 130 lbs guy Ankur Chawla with a 4 minute 40 time) acting as Assistant quarterback and Scene Editor friends and fam­ily pretending to be receivers and a cohesive defense. 

9. No classes. Unlike other Nation­al Holidays such as Columbus Day and Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, we actually get Thanksgiving off from class, which is a pleasant break from the traditional cornucopia of classes, papers, homework and exams. 
8. Snow. Coming from the lovely town of Chesterton, Ind., I’m used to the first snow of the year falling sometime around late November. Nothing beats “walking in a winter wonderland.” 
7. Food. Thanksgiving isn’t Thanksgiving without food. Given my usual slate of writing (cup­cakes, Thai food and the like), it isn’t surprising that national turkey day is my favorite holiday of the year. Nothing beats turkey, mashed potatoes, gravy, biscuits, cranberry sauce and pie. 
6. Black Friday. Some of the great Black Friday buys I’ve experienced in recent years include: $8 waffle maker, which is in my dorm room, $10 blender that broke after the sec­ond use and the first two seasons of The Boondocks for $5 each. 
5. Christmas is coming. The days following Thanksgiving are filled with Christmas shopping and deco­rating, realizing we are just a few short weeks before the holiday sea­son. 
4. Being Home. As much as I love being at the greatest of all universi­ties in the world, being home for a few days is quite nice — particularly the homemade meals, carpeting and queen sized bed. 
3. Sleep. Speaking of being home and a decent sized bed, Thanksgiv­ing break is a perfect time to catch up on sleep (and all of the TV shows you shouldn’t have been keeping up with while at school). 
2. Family. Going along with being home, Thanksgiving is one of the few times a year I get to see my whole family and, as mentioned above, having our annual not-very-athletic Turkey Bowl. 
1. Food. Yes, it’s on the list twice. But then again, Thanksgiving dinner is not just a one-meal deal. Almost better than the dinner itself is the leftovers eaten the following days for breakfast, lunch and dinner. 
Contact Ankur Chawla at      achawla@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Occupy unrest 
Over the past two months, the Oc­cupy Wall Street movement that began as a protest against the disproportion­ate influence wielded by the wealthiest members of society has garnered inter­national attention and spawned hun­dreds of solidar­ity protests across the country and around the world. Recently however, the movement has faced a number of setbacks that have threatened the con-Ryan Williams tinued existence of the demonstrations. freethoughts 

In New York, the protestors were evicted overnight from Zuccotti Park, the physical and spiritual birthplace of the movement. Police and local governments have similarly turned against the protesters in Oakland, San Francisco, Portland and dozens of other cities across the country. Additionally, public opinion appears to have soured on the Occupiers, with a recent Public Policy Polling survey indicating that support for the movement has fallen from 35 percent of American adults to 33 percent, while the percentage of those who disapprove has risen from 36 percent to 45 percent. 
In light of these new developments, it may be easy to dismiss the protesters as simply a ragtag band of drugged-up homeless liberals looking for a free handout at the expense of productive members of society. This would be a tre­mendous mistake however, as this con­temptuous approach overlooks the fact that the protests have raised a number of legitimate issues regarding greed and accountability on Wall Street, as well as concerning the role of money in politics. To be sure, the movement has a number of serious flaws that have hampered its ability to generate a broad following 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

outside the encampments. 
The leaderless nature of the protests, while attractive to those wary of power and influence, renders them unable to develop a coherent and consistent message. This has led each protest to issue its own set of demands, with some of the more ridiculous including the elimination of all free trade agree­ments and the establishment of a $25 per hour minimum wage. Addition­ally, though they claim to represent 99 percent of all Americans, the protesters tend to exclude from their movement anyone who does not subscribe to their anti-capitalist worldview, leaving them actually representing something more like .99 percent of the United States. Finally, the occupational nature of the protests — obstructing access to bridges, shutting down businesses and blocking streets — inconveniences a great many working Americans, destroys much of the sympathy they may have had for the movement and reinforces a perception that the protesters are little more than overzealous anarchists. 
Despite these deficiencies, the protest­ers have raised a number of issues that suggest politicians and the business com­munity should not dismiss the movement lightly. The Occupy protests have suc­cessfully tapped into the lingering anger and resentment that many Americans feel towards the financial institutions whose irresponsible risk-taking behavior played a substantial role in creating the economic crisis that has gripped this country for the past several years. Mak­ing matters worse is the almost complete lack of remorse expressed by many in the industry, and the fact that this reckless behavior is still highly pervasive on Wall Street (as evidenced in the disastrous investment practices at MF Global, which filed for bankruptcy after mysteriously misplacing over one billion dollars in customer funds). The Occupy movement has highlighted the broad support that exists in the United States for punishing and further regulating those financial institutions that fail to willingly reform their corporate cultures, meaning that if banks do not act quickly they will be subjected to ever more stringent regula­tions and taxes that will severely cut into their newly recovered earnings. 
The Occupy protests have also served to focus attention on the dangerous influ­ence of money on politics. So long as po­litical campaigns continue to be funded by donations, American democracy will never be truly free and fair, as those individuals, interest groups, corporations and labor unions with massive resources at their disposal will always be able to dominate the political discourse and disproportionately influence policies and legislation adopted in Washington. 
The only solution to this increasingly worrisome problem is to remove money from politics altogether, instead hav­ing all congressional campaigns funded through a system of public financing similar to that currently employed in presidential campaigns, only mandatory rather than voluntary. This would elimi­nate any incentive for political leaders to craft favorable regulations or legislation for those interest groups who contribute to their reelection campaigns and would mark a significant step towards return­ing the balance of political power to the ordinary American voter. If they are able to keep their focus on reasonable, broad­ly appealing goals such as these, the Oc­cupy protests may yet continue to live on, and their legacy will live on as one of the few truly influential movements in the history of American democracy. 
Ryan Williams is a junior. He can be reached at twilli15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“What we become depends on what we read after all of the professors have finished with us. The greatest university of all is a collection of books.” 
Thomas Carlyle Scottish author 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Read not to contradict and confute, nor to find talk and discourse, but to weigh and consider.” 
Sir Francis Bacon English author and philosopher 


Tuesday, November 22, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR A treatise on Notre Dame football: protecting tradition 
“This is not merely a football field,” says Notre Dame’s Official Campus Guide. “It is an experience, a uniquely Notre Dame synthesis of sport, tradition, pride, loyalty and belief.” The Notre Dame football experience is one born of tradition. Tradition makes Notre Dame more than a university. It gives alumni, students, and fans a passion for the school and creates a sense of loyalty to the university. Breaking this tradition would dishonor our history, alumni and accomplishments. 
During the past three home games, Notre Dame has played music over the loudspeaker. Brian Kelly has also made comments support­ing the idea of adding a Jumbotron and turf field, but modernizing our gameday experience would take Notre Dame’s tradition away. Notre Dame fans come to games not only to watch the game, but also to experience tradition. Fans don’t come for the same clichéd experience that you can find at other stadiums, which boast a Jumbotron, a turf field and “intimidating” stadium music. 
Furthermore, the marching band is one of the biggest traditions at a Notre Dame game. They have played the same songs and lead the crowd in the same chants year after year. Playing music over the loudspeaker has already put the band at bay and will continue to disrespect the leaders of the stadium experience. 
Some have argued that stadium music will help pump up the crowd, but the tradition of Notre Dame creates an atmosphere where the fans feed off the performance of the football team, not Ozzy Osborne. We want people to be excited in the crowd, but because of the quality of football being played rather than their favor­ite song blasting throughout the stadium. 
Lastly, although traditions do grow and change over time, it seems rash to completely overhaul the stadium experience at the whims of business students working on a project and 8,000 other undergrads. The young student body lacks the proper frame of reference to truly understand the changes which some are proposing. We are not the typical college football program and we do not have a typical gameday experience. 
Joel Kolb 
freshman St. Edward’s Hall 
Chris Lattimer 
freshman St. Edward’s Hall Nov. 20 
UWIRE 

Recent polls show communism more popular than Congress 
There are very few people who would argue America is a huge fan of communism. 
After half a century of political tension and some propaganda, it isn’t too surprising. Com­munists were, after all, the source of fear regarding Zach Davis nuclear war. 
Whether or not it was The Daily truly communism doesn’t Reveille make a difference — the damage has been done to the American psyche. This is obvious when you hear those on the right of the political aisle decrying some of the left’s actions because they’re “communist.” 
Their definition of communism is off. The in­tent is to merely connect it with something most Americans despise. 
Thus, it’s surprising to find there’s something Americans like even less than communism: Congress. 
According to a recent Gallup poll, Congress’ approval rating is sitting at only 13 percent, continuing a historic low point in popularity. As a result of such a low popularity, some have taken it upon themselves to compare this to the popularity of other subjects. 
One such person is Senator Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), who created a chart to help explain just how low these numbers are. Although Gallup puts Congress’ popularity at 13 percent, Bennet uses a recent New York Times/CBS poll which found it to be even lower at 9 percent. 
As previously mentioned, one of the subjects was communism — specifically America becom­ing communist. According to a Rasmussen poll performed this year, 11 percent of people polled were OK with the idea of America going com­munist. 
If that doesn’t cause a surprise, some of the other numbers should help. After the oil spill in the Gulf, BP stood at 16 percent. Nixon held 24 percent during Watergate, and banks were still hovering 23 percent as of this year, all according to Gallup polls. 
Clearly, Congress isn’t very popular right now. 
One last figure that some people like to bring up to help hammer this point home is the popu­larity of King George during the Revolutionary War. With an estimated 15 to 20 percent of those in the colonies being loyalists, he fares much bet­ter than Congress does today. 
While these are numbers Congress should heed, they are not things to which we should lend much weight. Polls may be good indicators, but polling in itself simply isn’t accurate all the time. 
Take, for example, some of the polling which takes place before and after actual voting. Many times there have been surprises and disappoint­ments when a candidate fails to do as well as the polling predicted them to. It shouldn’t be surpris­ing. 
Everyone lies at some point in time. Big or small, it’s simply a part of human nature, and is not always done maliciously. When being asked about political opinions, or other controversial topics, most people may not tell how they truly feel. 
Our political beliefs are often personal things, and there are some who would go with much safer opinions to fit in with the norm. While there’s nothing wrong with this, it’s simply one of the reasons why polls must be taken with a grain of salt. 
If nothing else, people can always change their mind between the poll and the vote. 
At the end of the day, it’s hard to believe these polls are accurate. While Congress may be inef­ficient and correctly unpopular, it’s unreason­able to think more Americans agree with a turn toward communism. 
Despite some people saying they dislike Con­gress just because it’s a popular viewpoint, the low numbers seem far more likely an indication of faulty polling. 
In the end, however, Congress certainly needs to pay attention to these numbers. While they may be drastic, Congress should be aiming to at least be popular with a quarter of the country. 
Twenty-five percent isn’t asking much. If Nixon and the banks can pull it off, surely this Congress should be able to as well. 
This article first ran in the Nov. 21 edition of The Daily Reveille, the daily publication serving Louisiana State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Why The Shirt matters 
As a former student and member of the Fighting Irish football team, I experienced firsthand how powerfully The Shirt uni­fies the Irish faithful. As the students and alumni of our great school have done in the past, when called to action, we respond. The hallowed halls of Notre Dame echo: God, Country and Notre Dame. 
This year, we can create something better to represent our values through The Shirt. 
We can make The Shirt in America to help create jobs and keep people off unemployment during these turbulent economic times. Poverty and unemployment are real in the U.S.A. now more than ever; we can be a generation of action and not just of talk. 
The Shirt can be made from 100 percent Recycled Materials to avoid the use of more virgin resources. This innovation can be the key to redefining our manufacturing sector, one that is in need of stimulus. You may be concerned with environmental is­sues or not, but the U.S.A. represents five percent of the world’s population and produces 25 percent of its waste. 
The Shirt has done much good in the past: The Shirt Charity Fund, the Rector Fund and the Twelfth Man powerfully embody the philanthropic spirit of our University. Unfortunately, the garment that finances these efforts has not always stayed true to those values. The Charities benefiting from The Shirt would be much better financed through a non-exploitive product, something consistent with their mission. 
In complete honesty, if SustainU was to make The Shirt, it may cost two to three dollars more at the register. Using American Wages and materials that are progressive carry a direct cost that maybe more now, but a greater payoff in the end. SustainU is not some “Better Option” leg of another company or owned by a larger conglomerate. We are not segmented in our approach in what can be real steps to helping our country and world. 
I am willing to answer any questions through my per­sonal email and cell phone: chris@sustainuclothing.com or 574-514-3694. 
Serious Questions/Comments/Inquiries only please. 
Chris Yura 
alumnus Class of 2003 Nov. 21 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, November 22, 2011 

By BRIGID MANGANO red, while the ornate window trim was Scene Writer brushed by an eye-catching banana yellow and the fire escapes an attrac-
New York City is one of the most tive turquois-green. In addition, the iconic metropolitan cities in the Unit-windowpanes reflect the blue of the sky, ed States. Destinations such as Time making it easy to forget that the panes Square, Broadway, the Statue of Lib-are actually transparent. Mackenzie’s erty, the Brooklyn Bridge, Rockefeller tight framing of this shot (neither the Center, Ground Zero and St. Patrick’s street level nor the roof are visible) Cathedral have been photographed ad prevent anything from distracting the infinitum. In “Over Under Sideways viewer from this explosion of vibrant Down: 15 Shots Snapped in New York color. City,” Louis MacKenzie, chair of the  De-Color is also a central component partment of Music and associate profes-of “Franklin Street,” a photograph of sor of French, eschews the Big Apple’s a subway entrance with a cyan blue monumental buildings and universally building as its backdrop, and “Eliza­recognizable sites. With his discerning beth Street,” a photograph of a graffi­eye for playful juxtapositions of light ti-covered brick wall. In the latter, the and shadow, Mackenzie finds beauty in graffiti artist paints a tree in autumn everything from fire escapes and traffic and an inverted cityscape whose build-lights to graffiti and subway stations. ings are as tilted as the Tower of Pisa. 
On display at the Gallery at the Viewers will feel an urge to twist their Foundry through Dec. 30, the exhibi-heads sideways in order to get a better tion invites visitors to join Mackenzie as look at the painted skyline.  he meanders throughout New York City. For anyone who loves New York City Ever since his childhood, Mackenzie or who hopes to visit this cultural capi­has enjoyed riding the New York sub-tal someday, “Over Under Sideways way to nowhere in particular, exiting Down” offers a unique opportunity at randomly chosen stops and explor-to see New York through the eyes of a ing unfamiliar neighborhoods. This has talented photographer and lifelong Big not only allowed Mackenzie to develop Apple enthusiast. an expert knowledge of the city’s rail­way routes, but also has exposed him Contact Brigid Mangano at to aspects of city life that often pass bmangano@nd.edu unnoticed by tourists and native New Yorkers alike. 
Mackenzie’s perceptiveness and attention to detail came through in “From the High Line,” a photograph 
In South Bend 

taken from New York City’s new­est public park, which was built atop an inoperative freight track elevated What: “Over Under above traffic in Manhattan’s West Side. Mackenzie was there when the High Sideways Down: 15 Shots Line officially opened on June 9, 2009. His photograph depicts a faded brick Snapped in New York City” building with arched windows and zig­zagging fire escapes. The most striking Where: The gallery at the thing about the photo is the shadow of the ladder rungs falling upon the fa-Foundry in Eddy Street çade, which creates an attractive pat­tern of parallel lines that complement Commons the strong diagonals of the fire escape. 
Fire escapes also make an appear-When: Nov. 12 to Dec. 30 ance in “Mott Street,” but here the effect is totally different. In this pho-How Much: Free admission tograph, the viewer is arrested not by patterns of light and shadow, but rath-Learn More: today.nd.edu er by the building’s brilliant colors. The brick exterior was painted bright 

ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic 


Tuesday, November 22, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

Disclaimer: I am not a Twilight fan. I have not read the books and my knowledge of vampires and were­wolves is limited. However, for rea­sons both social and inquisitive in nature, I was at the AMC Showplace Theater on Thursday, Nov. 17, for the midnight release of “Breaking Dawn: Part 1.” I was prepared to wait Carrie Turek in long lines with geared-up Scene Writer teenage girls supporting ei­ther “Team Edward” or “Team Jacob.” Surprisingly, though, there were no lines and only minimal swooning tak­ing place. Having seen the previous three Twilight films once each, I was only moderately caught up with the intrica­cies of the plot. Nevertheless, with my minimal knowledge of vampires and the help of a friend tolerant of ques­tions, I made it through “Breaking Dawn: Part 1” without great confu­sion, and even a very slight interest in the remainder of the series. For those unfamiliar with the series, Bella Swan (Kristen Stewart), a hu­ man, has fallen in love with Edward ing a half-vampire with exponentially Cullen (Robert Pattinson), a vampire increasing strength and from the who consumes only non-human blood. werewolves who see the vampire-child Completing the love triangle, Bella as an immense threat. and Jacob Black (Taylor Lautner), a The plot may be far-fetched, but werewolf, have had an ongoing attrac­with an open mind, the complexities tion throughout the series. “Breaking that Meyer weaves into the storyline Dawn: Part 1” is the first half of the and the emotional intricacies between film adaptation of Stephenie Meyer’s characters can seem impressive.  final Twilight novel. Though the talking digital werewolves “Breaking Dawn” begins on a prom-were a bit unsettling, the set and ising note. Within the first few scenes, scenery in this film was extremely Jacob, as anyone could predict, loses well done. Costumes for Bella and his shirt upon receiving an invitation Alice Cullen (Ashley Greene) were for the Cullen-Swan wedding. Picking gorgeous and stylish. Edward Cullen up where “Eclipse” left off, the film looked clean-cut and less starkly pale commences with marriage prepara­in this film, and Jacob Black’s flannel tions for the 18 year old heroine of the wardrobe and newfound assertiveness series and her immortal vampire love. made him a powerful, standout char-Despite Jacob’s pleas to Bella to acter (and an attractive werewolf). choose him over a vampire, Bella Unlike the previous Twilight films, marries Edward and they depart on the dialogue in “Breaking Dawn” is a stereotypical island honeymoon. Of quick, and silences are used tact-course, a vampire-human honeymoon fully to convey internal emotions of can only stay normal for so long. After confusion experienced by the main weeks of loving glances, romantic ges­characters. The overabundance of tures and frolics on the beach, Bella smoldering glances and sometimes learns that she is pregnant. Much static facial expressions that made the of the film focuses on efforts to save first Twilight film slightly unbeliev-Bella from both the dangers of carry-able were mostly absent in “Breaking  Dawn.” Despite my initial reluctance to see “Breaking Dawn,” by the end of the film, my interest was piqued. With a final jolting glance from Bel­la, the film cuts to credits and leaves fans counting down the days until the next installment. “Breaking Dawn” was better than I had expected it to be and the best of the Twilight films yet. Though I have not been bitten and turned into a die-hard Twilight fan, chances are good that I will be one of the many to see the conclusion of Meyer’s saga when “Breaking Dawn: Part Two” is released on Nov. 16, 2012. Contact Carrie Turek at cturek@nd.edu “Breaking Dawn: Part 1” Starring: Kristen Stewart, Robert Pattinson, Taylor Lautner and Ashley Greene Directed By: Bill Condon  

What to watch over Thanksgiving Break  
“The Descendents” George Clooney, the eternal bach­elor, plays father to Shailene Woodley in what looks like an unusually heart­warming film. Set in beautiful Hawaii, Matt King (Clooney) is forced to take on the role of nurturing parent after his wife is injured in a boating accident. He has trouble controlling his reckless teenage daughter, but upon trying to convince her to open up, he learns that his wife has been cheating on him. As his emotional stability falters, he be­gins to connect with his daughters in a way he never had before. “My Week With Marilyn” Michelle Williams channels Norma Jean in “My Week With Marilyn,” a film based on the true story of a Marilyn Monroe filming, “The Prince and the Showgirl,” in Britain. After her husband leaves, Colin Clark, an assistant on the set of the film, shows Marilyn around Britain. In the mean time, however, Clark is given a privi­leged view inside the life of a woman who lived her act to the very end. Portraying such an iconic figure as Marilyn would be a daunting feat for any actress, but Williams seems to strike a believable tone. “A Dangerous Method” Michael Fassbender as Carl Jung. Viggo Mortensen as Sigmund Freud. A disturbed young Russian woman  played by Keira Knightley coming be-woman he loves is a rising star in tween them. This is nothing like your these “talkies.” This film follows the 9:30 a.m. psychology class. Directed by style of the old silent black and whites, David Cronenberg, whose films include showing the hardships that accompany the intense “A History of Violence” loss of fame and those that go along and “Eastern Promises,” “A Danger-with being in love with someone who ous Method” explores the relationship is taking your place in the spotlight. between Jung and his mentor Freud, This film has romance, comedy, tears, and how a beautiful patient both smiles and John Goodman. It is very divides them and helps them develop unique and has won awards at several the famous theory of psychoanalysis. international film festivals, so you If nothing else, Knightley’s Russian ac­won’t want to miss this one. cent should be somewhat entertaining. “Hugo” “Arthur Christmas” Though Hollywood has been hot for In this soon-to-be Christmas classic, 3D recently, many of its most prolific the question that has eluded children directors have been hesitant to join through all time will finally be an-the craze. On Nov. 23, Martin Scorsese swered: How does Santa get all those of “The Departed,” “Taxi Driver” and presents delivered around the world in “Goodfellas” fame releases “Hugo,” one night? The story follows the Claus his first film in 3D. Based on the novel family: the “Grand-Santa,” the current “The Invention of Hugo Cabret” by Santa and the next-in-line, Santa’s son Brian Selznick, “Hugo” follows the Steve. And then there’s Arthur, Steve’s story of a young boy, Hugo (Asa Butter-awkward and easily-excited younger field), who lives in the walls of a Paris brother. When one little girl’s present train station after being orphaned. He gets left behind, and the “new and im­discovers a magical mystery involving proved” Santas are not concerned, this his deceased father (Jude Law), some unlikely hero must step up and bring automotons and the famous French back the spirit of Christmas. With pioneering filmmaker Georges Melies comedy, family and Christmas cheer, (Ben Kingsley), whom he must unravel this movie is perfect for the start of the with the help of new friend Isabella holiday season. (Chloe Moretz). The movie promises adventure and a heartfelt story perfect “The Artist” for friends or the entire family over Set in the 1920s, a silent film star Thanksgiving weekend. “Hugo” also struggles with his fall from fame with features Sacha Baron Cohen and the rise of talking pictures, while the Christopher Lee, amongst many others  in this impressive cast. “The Muppets” Kermit, Miss Piggy and friends are back. It’s been a while since these pup­pet characters have been in our lives, but their new movie promises to be one not to miss. A Texas oilman wants to destroy Muppet theater to drill the oil underneath, but Walter (voiced by Peter Linz), the Muppets’ biggest fan, gets wind of the plan. Along with his brother Gary (Jason Segel), they try to raise the money necessary to save the theater. But they must reunite the Muppets, who have all gone their separate ways and have lost some of their fame. It’s hard to go wrong with a Segel film, and combining him with the Muppets ensures that the movie will keep you laughing. Bring your whole family for some extra Thanks­giving bonding time. “Melancholia” Lars von Trier’s “Melancholia” stars Kirsten Dunst, who plays a depressed woman on her wedding day. Her wedding day just happens to be right before the apocalypse. “Melancholia” refers not only to the mood of the film, but the name of the planet about to crash into Earth. The trailer for “Mel­ancholia” features something prevalent in nearly all Kirsten Dunst films ¾ a lot of Dunst staring at the camera and looking sad. However, the sci-fi aspect of “Melancholia” seems intriguing,  

ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 22, 2011 
NHL 

Crosby nets two goals, two assists in return 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — Sidney Crosby capped his comeback with a flourish. 
The superstar forward scored twice and added two assists in his season debut and the Pittsburgh Penguins crushed the New York Island­ers 5-0 on Monday night. 
Playing his first game in more than 10 months while re­covering from concussion-like symptoms, Crosby appeared to be in midseason form. He scored on his third shift in spectacular fashion, weaving through the New York defense before beating Anders Nilsson with a backhand for his first goal since last December. 
Crosby added assists on goals by Evgeni Malkin and Brooks Orpik and capped his comeback with a second tally, a backhand that fluttered by Nilsson early in the third pe­riod to provide the final mar­gin. 
Steve Sullivan also scored for the Penguins while Marc-Andre Fleury stopped 29 shots. 
Nilsson, making just his second start of the season, made 31 saves for New York. 
The rookie looked over­whelmed at times as the Pen­guins roared to life with their captain back. 
An electric Consol Energy Center crowd greeted Crosby with a deafening roar when he skated onto the ice during warm-ups while “Back in the Saddle Again” blared over the speakers. 
Fans held placards with “Sid’ on them — a directive from Hall of Famer and team owner Mario Lemieux — while others brought home­made homages to “Sid the Kid,” including one that read “Merry Sid-Mas.” 
Crosby’s return gave a late-November game between a perennial contender and an overmatched also-ran a play­off-like feel, and not just be­cause more than 250 press credentials were handed out, four times the usual number. 
Throughout his achingly slow rehab the 24-year-old stressed he wouldn’t return until he felt 100 percent and stressed it would be nearly impossible to top Lemieux’s successful return from cancer in 2000, when he notched an assist on his first shift then later added a goal and anoth­er helper. 
Amazingly, Crosby one-upped his boss. 
Displaying the speed that’s made him a national icon in his native Canada and the face of the sport at age 24, Crosby transformed the Pen­guins from Cup contender to Cup favorite in less than 6 minutes, or the time it took him to score his first goal in 328 days. 
Finishing off a backcheck, Crosby streaked up the ice, took a pass from Pascal Du­puis as he crossed the cen­ter line and went to work. He worked the puck to his backhand, slipped past New York’s Andrew MacDonald and flipped the puck over Nilsson’s glove. 
The normally reticent Crosby screamed as he skat­ed into the corner, thrusting his arms aloft and letting out a huge scream. 
He was just getting start­ed, later helping the Pen­guins go up 2-0 by feed­ing Orpik on the point and watching his defenseman rifle a slap shot by Nilsson. 
Pittsburgh coach Dan Bylsma said before the game he’d try to monitor Crosby’s minutes but knew it would be difficult to keep him off the ice. 
It was. 
Crosby played nearly 16 minutes and for the first time in nearly a year, ab­sorbed a hit at game speed. New York’s Travis Hamonic cleanly checked Crosby to the ground during a first-period Pittsburgh power play. 
It was the first real test of Crosby’s comeback, and he popped up immediately to get back in the play as the Penguins — and the rest of the hockey world — exhaled. 
His return, however, is a “be careful what you wish for” proposition for the NHL. The Penguins have been sol­id without him. During his first night back, they were spectacular. 
Crosby earned a second­ary assist on Malkin’s pow­er-play goal early in the second and Malkin later provided a highlight-worthy point of his own, threading a saucer pass to Sullivan as Pittsburgh pushed the lead to 4-0. 
Crosby capped his spec­tacular debut with a back­hand that fluttered by Nils­son in the third, turning the last 15 minutes of the game into a celebration worthy of late-spring not the week of Thanksgiving. 
MLB 

Verlander wins MVP, Cy Young 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK  — Justin Ver­lander figured time had run out on his chance to become the first starting pitcher in a quar­ter-century to be voted Most Valuable Player. 
Last Tuesday, he found out about 12:40 p.m. that he was a unanimous winner of the AL Cy Young Award. It was closing in on 1 p.m. Monday, and he still hadn’t gotten word on the MVP. 
“I had told myself that it wasn’t going to happen,” he said. “I fig­ured somebody else got the call.” 
Not to worry, there was just a slight delay because Verlander didn’t give the Baseball Writ­ers’ Association of America his telephone number, forcing the BBWAA to relay the news through Brian Britten, the De­troit Tigers’ director of media relations. 
Britten telephoned Verlander at 12:56 p.m., about one hour before the announcement. 
“It was just a weight off my shoulders,” Verlander said, “and pure elation, really.” 
After winning the AL’s pitch­ing triple crown by going 24-5 with a 2.40 ERA and 250 strike­outs, Verlander received 13 of 28 first-place votes and 280 points. He became the first pitcher vot­ed MVP since Oakland’s Dennis Eckersley in 1992 and the first starting pitcher since Boston’s Roger Clemens in 1986. 
“Obviously pitchers are not just written off all of a sudden because they’re pitchers,” Ver­lander said. 
Boston center fielder Jacoby Ellsbury was second with four firsts and 242 points, followed by Toronto right fielder Jose Bautista with five firsts and 231 points, Yankees center fielder Curtis Granderson with 215 and Detroit first baseman Miguel Ca­brera with 193. 
Recent history has been against pitchers. Since Eckers­ley’s win, only once had a pitch­er finished as high as second. 
In 1999, Boston’s Pedro Marti­nez was 13 points behind Texas catcher Ivan Rodriguez after go­ing 23-4 with a 2.07 ERA and 313 strikeouts. Martinez had eight first-place votes to seven for Rodriguez, but La Velle Neal of the Minneapolis Star Tribune and George King of the New York Post left Martinez off their ballots. 
“Not even in my wildest dreams had I thought of this,” Verlander said during a con­ference call from his home in Virginia. “I want to say this is a dream come true. I can’t say that because my dream had already had come true ... to win a Cy Young. And the next dream is to win a World Series. This wasn’t even on my radar until the talk started. And then all of a sudden it was a this-could-actually-happen type of thing.” 
Verlander had the most wins in the major leagues since Oakland’s Bob Welch went 27-6 in 1990. Ver­lander pitched his second career no-hitter at Toronto on May 7. His season reopened debate over whether pitchers can be MVPs. 
“I think that a starting pitcher has to do something special to be as valuable or more so than a position player,” Verlander said. “Obviously, having the chance to play in 160-some games in the case of Miguel, they can obvi­ously have a huge impact every day. That’s why, I’ve talked about on my day, on a pitcher’s day, the impact we have is tremendous on that game. So you have to have a great impact almost every time out to supersede (position players) and it happens on rare occasions, and I guess this year was one of those years.” 
Verlander, the 2006 AL Rookie of the Year, joined the Brooklyn Dodgers’ Don Newcombe as the only players to win all three major awards in their careers. 
“I think this set a precedent,” Verlander said. “I’m happy that the voters acknowledged that, that we do have a major impact in this game and we can be ex­tremely valuable to our team and its success.” 
Verlander appeared on only 27 ballots and was omitted by Jim Ingraham of The Herald-News in Ohio, who voted Bautista first. Sheldon Ocker of the Akron Bea­con Journal voted Verlander eighth. 

Ingraham doesn’t think pitch­ers should be eligible. 
“I’d wrestled with this for a long time. If I was ever going to vote for pitcher for MVP, it would be him this year,” Ingraham said. “He hasn’t appeared in 79 percent of their games, any starting pitcher really doesn’t appear in 79 per­cent of his team’s games in a year. 
“Would you vote for an NFL quarterback for MVP if he only appeared in three of his team’s 16 games, which would be 21 percent? So that’s part of it. An­other part of it is I think they’re apples and oranges. The guys that are in there every day, there’s a grind to a season that a starting pitcher doesn’t, I don’t think, ex­perience the way the everyday po­sition players do playing 150, 160 games.” 
Other pitchers to win MVP and Cy Young in the same year are Newcombe (1956), Los Angeles’ Sandy Koufax (1963), St. Louis’ Bob Gibson and Detroit’s Denny McLain (1968), Oakland’s Vida Blue (1971), Milwaukee’s Rollie Fingers (1981) and Detroit’s Willie Hernandez (1984). 
Since Mickey Cochrane (1934), Hank Greenberg (1935, 1940) and Charley Gehringer (1937), all Tigers voted MVP have been pitchers, with Verlander joining Hal Newhouser (1944 and 1945), McLain and Hernandez. 
“He deserved it,” Tigers gen­eral manager Dave Dombrowski said. “He should have won it, but I didn’t know how voters would respond because the talk of some people not wanting to vote for a pitcher.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Boston Bruins Top 10 All-Time Detroit Red Wings Top 10 All-Time Montreal Canadiens Top 10 All-Columbus Blue Jackets All-Time Points Leaders Points Leaders Time Points Leaders Points Leaders 
FOR SALE PERSONAL 
Ray Bourque 1506 Gordie Howe                 1809 Guy Lafleur  1246 Rick Nash*  478 
Johnny Bucyk 1339 Steve Yzerman  1755 Jean Beliveau           1219 David Vyborny  317 Investment property in South UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t Phil Esposito 1012 Alex Delvecchio            1281 Henri Richard           1046 Nikolai Zherdev  181 Bend. 1333 Belmont. New remodel go it alone. Notre Dame has many Rick Middleton  898 Nicklas Lidstrom*          1108 Maurice Richard        965 Geoff Sanderson  168 with new kitchen and bath. (apox. resources in place to assist you. Bobby Orr  888 Sergei Fedorov              954 Larry Robinson          883 R.J. Umberger*  158 1600 SF finished) Paint and carpet If you or someone you love needs Wayne Cashman  793 Norm Ullman  758 Yvan Cournoyer  863 Manny Malhotra     145 new ready to move into. Four confidential support or assistance, Ken Hodge   674 Ted Lindsay  728 Jacques Lemaire       835 Kristian Huselius*   142 potential bedrooms and a full please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 Terry O’Reilly  606 Pavel Datsyuk*  651 Steve Shutt  776 Ray Whitney  140 basement. All new appliances. Call or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more Cam Neely  590 Brendan Shanahan        633 Bernie Geoffrion        759 Jakub Voracek  134 Jim 574-329-2368 for a showing information, visit ND’s website at: Peter McNab  587 Reed Larson  570 Saku Koivu                 641 Rostislav Klesla      133 and more details.&quot; See it at- http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu MichianaOnlineRealty.com *Current Red Wings Player *Current Red Wings Player 
Tuesday, November 22, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
MLB 

Valentine pursues Red Sox manager position 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — The Boston Red Sox said they were look­ing for a different voice in the clubhouse when they let Terry Francona walk after the worst September col­lapse in major league his­tory. Enter Bobby Valentine. 
Known for his confron­tational style that rubbed some of his players the wrong way and for feud­ing with his bosses with the New York Mets, his last big league managing gig, Val­entine formally interviewed for the Boston job on Monday when he met with general manager Ben Cherington and other members of the Red Sox brain trust. 
“They have one of the best teams in baseball, one of the best organizations in baseball, one of the great­est venues in baseball, with a winning tradition over the last 10 years,” he said. “Oth­er than that there’s really no reason why I want to be here.” 
The Red Sox had originally interviewed Gene Lamont, Torey Lovullo, Dale Sveum, Sandy Alomar Jr. and Pete Mackanin. Sveum has been hired to manage the Chicago Cubs by former Red Sox GM Theo Epstein; Mackanin had been told he was no longer in the running, and Alomar got the same news on Monday. 
Working against Alomar wasn’t a lack of managerial experience as much as the fact that none of his coach­ing experience had been in a dugout. He had worked as a bullpen catcher with the Mets and first base coach with the Cleveland Indians. 
“We just felt like that is an important step for him,” Cherington said. “I told him how highly I think of him and I think he’s going to be a really good big league man­ager one day, but he wasn’t going to be the choice for us in 2012.” 
Although Cherington had maintained that he did not expect to expand the field, he met with Valentine in Hartford earlier this month, just before the former Mets and Rangers skipper ap­peared on a panel with Red Sox president Larry Lucchi­no. Valentine has also met with Red Sox ownership, Cherington said; Lamont is scheduled to meet with the owners this week. 
“This was always going to be a choice that I’m going to make with ownership,” said Cherington, who was promoted when Epstein left for the Cubs. “We’ve known since the start of this that this was too important a de­cision to rush.” 
The Red Sox led the AL East for much of the summer, but they went 7-20 in September to blow a nine-game lead in the AL wild-card race and finish one game behind the Tampa Bay Rays. Out went Francona, who was known as a players’ manager, a move that was followed by reports that pitchers were drinking beer and eating fried chicken in the club­house during games instead of cheering their teammates on from the bench. 
Asked for his philosophy of discipline, Valentine said he learned from his time in Japan that players appreci­ate having rules that are en­forced because it helps them stay in line. 
NHL 

Blue Jackets win second in a row 
Associated Press 

COLUMBUS, Ohio — Jeff Carter had two goals, Curtis Sanford made 27 saves and the Columbus Blue Jackets beat the Calgary Flames 4-1 on Monday night for their first winning streak in 42 games. 
Antoine Vermette and Rick Nash also scored, and Vinny Prospal added three assists for the Blue Jackets, who improved 3-1-1 in their last five games, and 2-0-1 in those games with the red-hot Sanford. Nash stopped a seven-game drought. 
Sanford, who signed a two-way contract in the offseason and recently re­turned from a groin injury, has been a steadying influ­ence on the team in place of the struggling Steve Ma­son. 
Mark Giordano scored for Calgary, which was seek­ing a third consecutive win. Backup Henrik Karlsson made 26 stops. 
Carter, who has all three of his goals this season in the last two games, carried the puck the length of the ice before sending a snap shot from the left circle over Karlsson’s glove at 3:01 in the first period. 
The Blue Jackets contin­ued to forecheck and it paid dividends three minutes later. Derek Dorsett jostled the puck loose around the Flames net and eventually Vermette flicked a nifty shot between his legs and inside the near post to make it 2-0. 
Calgary coach Brent Sut­ter used his timeout after the goal and the Flames responded, playing with more cohesion. They fin­ished the period with an 11-10 shots advantage, but Sanford was there to close the door on the best chanc­es. 

Sanford stymied Tim Jackman trying to finish a 2-on-1, kicked aside an un­contested slap shot from Giordano and gloved Alex Tanguay’s attempt. 
In the second period, soon after Sanford got a piece of a shot from Rene Bourque on a short-handed break­away, Columbus capitalized on a two-man advantage at 
5:28. Carter fired a Prospal rebound into an open net to make it 3-0. 
The Flames bounced back with a power-play goal of their own just over four minutes later. Skating lat­erally into the right circle, Giordano put on the brakes and snapped a perfectly placed shot to the far post for his third. 
The Flames’ best chance in the third came ear­ly when Tanguay hit the post and Mikael Backlund couldn’t sweep the rebound into a gaping net. 
Nash put the game away with his fifth at 18:29. 

MEN’S NCAA BASKETBALL 
Blue Devils defeat Volunteers in first round at Maui 
Associated Press 
LAHAINA, Hawaii — Tennes­see missed too many shots at the rim early, nearly everything from the perimeter the whole game. 
That’s not going to work against a team like Duke. 
Tennessee kept it close early despite its shooting woes, but faded down the stretch in a 77­67 loss to the sixth-ranked Blue Devils in the first round of the Maui Invitational on Monday. 
“I think they did a good job of taking away those shots from the perimeter,” Tennessee coach Cuonzo Martin said. “I thought we did a good job in the first half getting to the basket off the dribble. We did it in spurts in the second half.” 
Tennessee (2-1) is in rebuild­ing mode after the NCAA fiasco with coach Bruce Pearl, but still managed to keep up with Duke for a while. The Vols just couldn’t seem to get the ball in from close range early or from anywhere on the perimeter, missing all eight of their 3-point attempts. 
Jeronne Maymon had 14 points and 12 rebounds for Ten­nessee, which moves on to face No. 8 Memphis on Tuesday. 
“They obviously did a good job on chesting us up, keeping their hands high without foul­ing,” Maymon said. “We’ve got to focus on finishing more around the basket. That’s mostly on us.” 
Austin Rivers scored 18 points, Seth Curry and Ryan Kelly had 17 each to help Duke (5-0) pull away in the second half and im­prove to 13-0 all-time in Maui. 
Mason Plumlee had 13 re­bounds and Andre Dawkins add­ed 10 points for the Blue Devils, who move on to Tuesday’s semi­finals against No. 15 Michigan, which knocked off Memphis. 
“Late in that game, the biggest plays we could have made were defensive stops and defensive rebounds,” Kelly said. “I thought we did a pretty good job in the closing minutes of getting to all of those balls.” 
The Blue Devils have been the kings of the Maui, winning titles in 1992, 1997, 2001 and 2007. 
Coach Mike Krzyzewski called this year’s team his most inex­perienced group headed into Maui after losing its top three scorers from last season: ACC player of the year Nolan Smith, 2010 Final Four Most Outstand­ing Player Kyle Singler and Kyrie Irving, the No. 1 pick in the NBA draft. 
The Blue Devils are young but talented, with a heralded class of five freshman headed by Riv­ers, the consensus top recruit in the nation and son of Boston Celtics coach Doc Rivers. 
Duke has already been through a string of tough open­ing games, beating Belmont, Presbyterian, Michigan State and Davidson. The win over the Spartans, last Tuesday at Madison Square Garden, gave Krzyzewski his 903rd win, pass­ing his mentor and former coach Bobby Knight for most all-time in men’s Division I. 
The Blue Devils kept rolling against Tennessee behind Riv­ers. 
The freshman was out of con­trol at times in the first half, making just 1 of 5 shots from inside the arc. He was good out­side the 3-point line, though, hit­ting 3 of 4, including a pair late in the half that put the Blue Dev­ils up 39-33. 
Rivers started to hit a few shots inside the arc in the sec­ond half and dropped in another 3 as the Blue Devils stretched a 2-point lead midway through the half up to 13. He finished 4 of 6 from 3-point range. 
“When you’re a freshman, you start evaluating what you’re do­ing and sometimes you’re a step slow to the next thing and that’s because you care,” Krzyzews­ki said. “You want to be good. You’ve just got to get through that.” 
While Duke always seems to have talented new players, about the only thing the same at Ten­nessee are those bright orange uniforms. 
The Vols are under new di­rection this season after Martin replaced Pearl, who was fired in March after admitting that he lied to NCAA investigators. 
Tennessee lost forward Tobias Harris and guard Scotty Hopson to the NBA draft, four other se­niors who saw regular playing time and will rely on five new scholarship players — not to mention new offensive and de­fensive schemes. 
An annual favorite to win the SEC under Pearl, the Vols were picked 11th out of 12 teams in this year’s preseason media poll. 
Martin has tried to retool what Tennessee does, using a basic form of the motion-style offense that helped Missouri State be­come one of the Missouri Valley Conference’s top scoring teams and a high-pressure defense similar to what Pearl ran during his early tenure in Knoxville. 
Long and athletic, the Vols were able to keep up with the big Blue Devils early on, keeping it close despite missing numer­ous shots at the rim and a few wild ones. Tennessee missed all six of its 3-point attempts in the half on the way to shooting 33 percent, but was still within six. 
After Duke’s short run to end the first half, the Vols rallied to tie the game at 45-all early in the second. The Blue Devils made another run and Tennes­see answered, pulling within 2 midway through. 
Duke again started to pull away and the Vols had no an­swer this time, headed to the loser’s bracket in their first trip back to Maui since 2004. 
“I thought our guys com­peted,” Martin said. “They just made plays down the stretch and really executed. I thought we had a couple of quick shots, but it was tough.” 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, November 22, 2011 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, November 22, 2011 
Tuesday, November 22, 2011 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
WILL SHORTz 
EUGENIA LAST 
CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE 




JON REPINE 
HENRy ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
EXPND 
MIKE ARGIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, November 22, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
FOOTBALL 

Cardinal rule 

By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish will conclude their 2011 regular season Saturday when they travel to Stanford, who still has national title aspi­rations. 
Notre Dame (8-3) enters the season finale ranked No. 22 in the Bowl Championship Series rankings, the first time it has been ranked in that poll this season. The Irish won their 12th game in 15 contests with a 16-14 victory over Boston College on Saturday. 
“We asked [the players] to play hard for four quarters, and they did that tonight,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said after the game Saturday. “Just a satisfying win as a football coach to see your team battle. We’ve overcome a lot of things, and [it was] just a really nice victory for our foot­ball team today.” 
The result was not all positive for the Irish, however, as senior running back Jonas Gray was lost for the season with a knee injury in the win. Kelly said ju­nior receiver Theo Riddick, a former running back, might be an option the Irish look to as a complement to junior running back Cierre Wood. 
“We’ll sit down as a staff and, first of all, see what Theo is able to do physically and then de­cide whether he can go into a running back position and help us out,” Kelly said. “We haven’t made that decision, but we’ll certainly consider it.” 
No. 6 Stanford (10-1, 8-1 PAC-12) will provide a difficult matchup for the Irish, who have won eight of nine games since stumbling to an 0-2 start, a tes­tament to their competitiveness, Kelly said. 
“Clearly you know coming back from an 0-2 start to contin­ue the winning through a very 
see STANFORD/page 14 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish fall to Missouri in K.C. 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
In his first game back from suspension, fifth-year forward Tim Abromaitis scored 22 points on nine of 19 shooting against No. 21 Missouri. 
But the Tigers’ offense was too much for Notre Dame to handle, scoring 52 first-half points on the way to a 87-58 win in the semifinals of the CBE Classic in Kansas City, Mo., on Monday. 
“Flat out, men versus boys,” Irish coach Mike Brey said to the Associated Press. “They’re really good, they’re really ma­ture. It was the varsity playing the JV at times.” 
A Missouri 14-3 run early in the first half gave the Tigers a 13-point lead. The Irish were able to cut it to seven, but Mis­souri pulled away late in the first half and went into the locker room up 15. The Tigers shot 58.2 percent from the floor in the victory. 
Abromaitis added a team-high eight rebounds to his 22 points, and was joined in double figures by senior guard Scott Martin, who threw in 12 for Notre Dame and added five 
KARLA MORENO/The Observer 
rebounds. Irish upperclassmen 
Irish senior Scott Martin rises for a jump shot during Notre 


see MISSOURI/page 14 Dame’s 93-69 win over Delaware State on Nov. 18. 

Allan Joseph 
Sports Editor 

At first glance, this game seems like a no­brainer. While Stanford is really solid from top to bottom, Notre Dame is inconsistent and often sloppy. 
Then you look a little closer. If the de­fensive line can pressure Luck, he’ll force passes. If Tommy Rees can find his targets consistently, the Irish can hang in the game to have a shot to win at the end. Combine it 
with a timely big play here or there, and Notre Dame can pull this 
off. But let’s be real here. This Irish squad hasn’t shown they can 
put it all together against a good team. 
FINAL SCORE: Stanford 35, Notre Dame 24 
Douglas Farmer 
Editor-in-Chief 

I’m the last one to the computer screen tonight, and as I scan the other prognosti­cators’ scores, I’m amazed. Stanford by 11, by seven, by 17, Notre Dame by three. 
Sure, the Irish have come too far this season to give this game away, but there is only so much an over-matched Notre Dame can do against this Stanford juggernaut. The Cardinal is ready to restate its case to 
the country after two rough weeks. Unfortunately, Notre Dame 
will bear the brunt of that motivation. 
FINAL SCORE: Stanford 34, Notre Dame 13 
Eric Prister 
Senior Sports Writer 

The Irish have either been more talented or at least as talented as each team they have played so far this season. This will not be the case Saturday against Andrew Luck and Stanford. Luck is the Heisman fa­vorite, and Notre Dame’s defensive backs will likely have trouble containing him. 
The Irish offense should be able to move 
the ball and score some points, but the real 
question is if the defense can keep things 
close enough. Stanford is the best team Notre Dame has faced, 
and even with a potential (though unlikely) BCS berth on the 
line, the Irish will come up short. 
FINAL SCORE: Stanford 37, Notre Dame 30 
Andrew Owens 
Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame has a golden opportunity to end its 2011 regular season with its big­gest win in quite a long time, though it had similar opportunities before the Michigan and USC games this year. 
There is no question the Irish can hang with Stanford, but I just don’t think they will. The loss of Jonas Gray is a major setback to a hot-and-cold offense. If Stan­ford’s fifth-ranked rush defense makes 
Notre Dame one-dimensional, then it’s game over for the Irish, 
as Rees has shown little if any reason to believe he can lead an 
upset of a top-five team. 
FINAL SCORE: Stanford, 41, Notre Dame 24 
Chris Masoud 
Assistant Managing Editor 

I worked in Palo Alto this summer, and I saw approximately two articles of clothing worn by supposed Cardinal fans. They have a beautiful stadium, a second-to-none campus, a distinguished academic reputation, a Heis­man trophy candidate and the No. 6 football team in the nation. But they don’t have real fans. Inspired by Iowa State, Notre Dame will finally exercise its California demons, taking down the Cardinal and sending fans toward the exits with time to spare in the fourth. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24, Stanford 21 







